Big thank you to Nebula for sponsoring this video. [Music] &gt;&gt;Narrator: On the 22nd of July 2023 a preprint all anyone can talk about for the next month. temperature superconductor. Superconductors remarkable because they have almost zero to frigid temperatures, often close to absolute Physicists had stumbled onto materials with a temp we can reach with liquid nitrogen. It was In one of the fastest turnarounds in the field's very next year. Since then, the path forward Find one that can operate at room temperature. maglev trains could go further, MRI machines would more efficient. Maybe one day we could end our change the entire way we lived. And we've been That's why LK-99 took the world by storm. For something. LK-99 wasn't particularly phosphorus and oxygen with a hexagonal crystal grey metal. Two of the paper's authors, Lee and hence the name. This made for a great guarantee Korea its first ever Nobel prize, a Because it was made of relatively cheap and was super low. It was so accessible in fact, that their basements were cranking out experiments. mostly because it's difficult, but also because was something different. Amateurs were Reddit threads tracked updates a spectator sport because it felt like Part of what really captured people's imagination of LK-99, about the size of a coin, levitating Meissner effect, one of the two main properties levitating scraps began to appear on twitter, confirmation. On Bilibili, a Chinese social viewed video of August 1st. The reaction from it doesn't take fancy equipment to tell With the cryptocurrency market crashing in 2023, to LK-99 as the next big thing. Korean and Chinese to normal in early August. Scams, hype and the authors was being published on Twitter completely fake. The language barrier made But many scientists, from the beginning, had been lived through Hendrik Schon, and Ranga Dias Everyone and their kitchen sink had claimed and it was unclear why this one the paper hadn't even been peer reviewed, it was is not exclusive to superconductivity. Plenty less interesting reasons. And thirdly, no one the resistivity. Unless it reliably went to skepticism was met with pushback. Open minds are But as the weeks wore on, the tide quickly couldn't replicate the effect. A paper considered by many the definitive final is an insulator. Any effect that looked like and due to impurities in the samples, which arise These effects are not superconductivity, but There was no obvious evidence of fraud, no data it wrong. None of this controversy needed to one key reason. Because the team went public Both Kim and Lee said that the initial paper another author. Lee called it incomplete, for why that author rushed to go public, point to a fear of leaks. But it is clear that Even though much of the world stopped some true diehards persisted. The original Korean papers would fix the issues. And throughout they are on the verge of a breakthrough. At the since LK-99 had its 15 minutes in the spotlight. allows it to persist in people's minds. They potential payoff is so big. Like betting on Astronomical even. But if it ever paid off trying. What's a couple extra months? What's the lonelier it gets. Every day you keep going and you may even pass a point where your why not go all the way? You just have to &gt;&gt; Without some morals, or something to or science, or whatever you truly believe What do you have--what reason do you have to &gt;&gt; "He that doeth nothing is damned, [Music] For the majority of the world, Baltimore thoroughly eviscerated, alongside the that anyone with just a passing interest gave up long list of scientific inventions that turned out into gold. Shorthand for the impossible. But ideas tantalizing enough, there will always be champions If you were in the room itself, cheering you might have been compelled to call cold weren't in Baltimore that day were not had reported positive results. They were also of the three. Many were still on the fence, Baltimore felt like a witch hunt to some. line into prejudice. A refusal to even consider &gt;&gt; People who have been unable to reproduce &gt;&gt; Lewis' talk had been recorded, but many themselves, and only heard of it secondhand done what he so many others criticized Pons had a peer reviewed paper. But Lewis and and so they did what Pons and Fleischmann did Lewis was personally on the phone for wanted answers. His group sent over their anyone who wanted them. And in several cases, and pointed out errors in their experiments that ultimately many groups came over to Lewis' refusing to divulge key information despite and on the rare occasions they did respond to In Dallas, cold fusion's advocates its critics struck a near fatal blow. those were echo chambers. The true decisive sides. And that would take place in Los session of the Electrochemistry Society. Pons and Fleischmann. It's not just chemistry, &gt;&gt; We visited the Colosseum where fed to the lions. I mean the &gt;&gt;Narrator: They'll be surrounded by allies, in a made a point of stacking the list of speakers However, as soon as news of this became public and agreed to accept negative papers too. much friction. But it was the press caused a PR nightmare. Hugo Rossi, dean "the end of innocence." After enjoying for over a month, you can tell from the very &gt;&gt;Reporter: Dr Fleischmann, I was one of the and I think on behalf of the press we'd like to press coverage. Are you willing to acknowledge are wrong and you did not have fusion, or &gt;&gt; I have always been ready our experiments may be faulty. If we turn &gt;&gt; Narrator: Fleischmann shows visible frustration since Baltimore, the lack of neutrons wasn't bad radiation branches, they were focusing on the neutrons or tritium, they should be seeing helium. not occur nearly as often as the first or second. branch is just a fraction of a percent. You could room temperature might change these percentages, In fact, muon catalyzed fusion, which can and no significant change in its branching ratios. give off gamma rays at 23.8 MeV. And since they those rays are being absorbed by the palladium even this would have some visible evidence. causes Cherenkov radiation which has a distinct eye. When asked if they had seen this, Pons said looked for it. We've turned off the lights in it's not that dark." Helium tends to stay embedded conference, MIT and Sandia, called Pons' bluff. to see how much helium was present. Pons says &gt;&gt; That decision is not up to us. We have up to us. We will get fast results, we &gt;&gt; Reporter: Can you explain the &gt;&gt; No. &gt;&gt; Narrator: Los Alamos is in talks with U of like many more to come, would soon fall apart. handing the reigns over to the federal government, &gt;&gt; Los Alamos laboratory has broken off to collaborate on the Pons-Fleischmann Alamos is tired of waiting for the U and will &gt;&gt;Narrator: Later on a reporter, Tom Heppenheimer, angrily asks them why they haven't been &gt;&gt; Reporter: Where is it? &gt;&gt; Pons: We have not run that analysis yet. &gt;&gt; Reporter: Why not? &gt;&gt; Pons: It is being run now. &gt;&gt; Reporter: You heard that people &gt;&gt; Pons: I did not--I found out about that an &gt;&gt; Reporter: You just dodged &gt;&gt; Pons: What? &gt;&gt; Reporter: You just dodged &gt;&gt;Narrator: To make matters worse for our duo, Nathan Lewis had called in a favour, and was going to commandeer the podium to ensure the &gt;&gt; We have no evidence for helium. We have more sensitive than are reported by the no evidence of gamma rays. We have seen no be obtained by the natural enrichment we have no evidence in our laboratory is very difficult to believe that there are &gt;&gt; One of the more memorable criticisms Lewis which may lead to hot and cold spots. Pons and presentation. They showed one of their cells argued that if the dye mixed in uniformly, Lewis disagreed, and argued they could not know this with multiple thermometers. When they're gamma ray data, Fleischmann, through a bit of most convincing piece of evidence was now respect for the duo. And for what felt like had run a control with light water. Fleischmann who is sitting in the audience, is stunned by one day and heard the exact opposite. But one news all across the country. While Nathan Lewis Fleischmann loses his cool and they have a tense &gt;&gt; I'm very sorry that professor Lewis that is available and is available &gt;&gt; Lewis: We know the foreground, we don't know &gt;&gt; The background--I beg your pardon, the background is available in &gt;&gt; Lewis: That might be. I would like to &gt;&gt; Well then please don't--don't laugh it off. &gt;&gt; Moderator: Could we go &gt;&gt; Narrator: Fleischmann claims here that the down in the clip, and Fleischmann appears to the errata published in April, the data is referring to a second errata, which wouldn't Pons stares into the crowd with an expression &gt;&gt;Reporter: Do you wish now looking this last month or so, that quietly instead of holding the news &gt;&gt; I don't think the result would have &gt;&gt; I think it would have been a very marginal--in we had been left to get on with our work at &gt;&gt; Narrator: This would be their last press There had been six major meetings in just two for any scientific phenomena. There will but attendance continues to drop. The next but only 500 show up. And although they have they can be summed up with the comments of Edward most accomplished fusion expert in the world. he suggested that they needed an entirely new Meshugatron. A play on the Yiddish word for [Music] If you wanted, you could tell the story of cold 1989. I'll leave that for the books. Instead, I'll Energy, James Watkins, had ordered all 12 of and he had asked for weekly progress reports. In of a dedicated panel to investigate the issue. of the Manhattan project. He assembled a group Steve Koonin of Caltech, and Darleane Hoffman of all labs reporting positive results, and in To avoid accusations of bias, the fusion physicists, electrochemists, and bias would be made regardless, &gt;&gt;News Anchor: Fusion scientist lab off limits to the committee saying they minute changes in that committee &gt;&gt;Narrator: Despite telling him beforehand they working cell, when they arrived Pons said he were currently producing excess heat because they panel visited other labs, like that of Texas A&amp;M, when a cell was actively producing heat. But on labs that had negative results: MIT, Caltech, Bell University of Michigan, Sandia, Argonne, Chalk River. For Fleischmann the most demoralizing &gt;&gt; Britain's Harwell laboratory attempts to duplicate the fusion experiments. &gt;&gt;Narrator: He had personally sent them fusion their neutron detectors to see something he were stopping all cold fusion experiments. killed cold fusion entirely in the UK. And come out in favour had one by one retracted It's worth exploring some of those reasons. the first in the country to confirm cold fusion. and Texas A&amp;M, led by Chuck Martin. Georgia Tech &gt;&gt; Fusion researchers at Georgia &gt;&gt;Narrator: They realized with horror that to temperature. So much so that even holding it is the sort of everyday equipment issue that going public. But because this was cold fusion, mistakes were made due to urgency. It was such a retraction as quote: "like going to a hanging, of neutron detectors was a widespread problem were observing, you could see a neutron spike from a sodium lamp, or a sudden power draw in the most places, would be filled with contaminants of palladium are found to have traces of tritium Chuck Martin's group found they were well as heavy water. They even swapped and they still saw it. After much digging not been properly grounded. It was supplying slightly. Their retraction comes two weeks after who was a close friend of Pons, spent weeks but eventually decided to retract the paper. Two grad students in Seattle made waves on April evidence of tritium production. They were using a a mass of 2. D2 has a mass of 4, DT has a mass of 5 and 6, it would imply tritium production. as it relied on the assumption that which also have masses of 5 and 6 respectively. that they were seeing plenty of DDH, but no Lewis' group at Caltech worked for weeks trying a false positive. When they found one, they these pitfalls. One way to detect tritium is being radioactive, will cause the cocktail they soon discovered the lithium electrolyte in it, which also causes the small flashes. labs were seeing small amounts of helium is often used as a cooling agent in general absorb helium. Throughout the cold fusion leeching into the palladium. In fact, this retracted their fusion paper all the way back Robert Huggins' group at Stanford claimed they with heavy water showing noticeably more. heavy water and light water have different added. With everything else the same, the this there also seemed to be a pattern with often on the weekends. This is because less meaning slightly higher voltages were One thing that both critics and advocates of inconsistent. You'd only see it very occasionally. argued, what was happening is that all the results show excess heat, most will show nothing, and some work in an experimental setting. The average it's misleading to publish a paper with positive more negative results. If you actually took would have massive error bars, showing that the The government panel worked well into the Fall. spent by US labs attempting to replicate the published their final report in November, they evidence that useful sources of energy will result &gt;&gt; The prospect of federal funding for today. The advisory group's recommendations but it would be unusual if they were ignored. &gt;&gt; Although the panel largely came to a consensus, two co-chairs, Norman Ramsey, had been largely he took the role on he made a note to say it to John Huizenga his co-chair, Ramsey spent year he won a Nobel Prize, and was even less report he blindsided by them by announcing that member resign right before they published would Ramsey was willing to stay on if they included about cold fusion than the rest of the report. The accepted the lesser evil of including Ramsey's ultimatum would fuel rumours of alleged that the panel was biased. Quote: "the well financed schools that have sizeable stakes hot fusion projects." On the other hand, more &gt;&gt; In terms of the hard work I've put in it's sort of like a kick in the teeth, but I &gt;&gt; If this development says that the past is really not relevant now safe, cheap, and environmentally benign. &gt;&gt; The federal government would not fund cold toward modest support for carefully focused and system." The report almost concluded with a quote final version at the suggestion of Darleane pre-existing perceptions of believers that the laughed. "There's no use trying," she said. "One haven't had much practice," said the Queen. "When a day. Why, sometimes I've believed as many [Music] &gt;&gt; If cold fusion was to be brought back from appropriate given its birthplace. Most of the on with their lives, but according to a poll believed in cold fusion. When Nature rejected governor stated quote: "We are not going to allow is handled." The first ever annual cold fusion in Salt Lake City, just a little over one year a guest of honor at the reception, and dessert was cookies. The state of Utah had paid $5 million to and they were going to make sure they got their panel would vote on whether to release the bulk of whether cold fusion had been "confirmed" or but only two of them were scientists, and own cold fusion funding proposal. Although by results to determine anything concrete, all &gt;&gt; I didn't say I would give us an A, or a B ,or &gt;&gt; Justification? Well it seems to me that if years on hot fusion and not get anywhere you a mere 10 million or something like that, on &gt;&gt; News Anchor: And with the vote of confidence reports to the contrary, the experiments &gt;&gt;Narrator: They rented out a fancy new building cost them nearly $300k in just the first year. hire somewhere between 40 to 100 researchers. They working commercial prototypes. But ever since because Pons and Fleischmann Hugo Rossi was the dean of science at U of U cold fusion. They had a solid relationship, Rossi mostly took Pons at his word on the they needed someone in charge of the institute, part of his job was to attract funding, which much public criticism, which likely contributed the critics of cold fusion were being far too "I am somebody who left the whole Cambridge God's territory but because I rebelled against the all this. Maybe it was just wishful thinking. Those people who were just so damned sure of to hire researchers, and naturally, he asked Pons &gt;&gt; That Carol, was one of the concerns expressed that Pons and Fleischmann prefer to stay in their &gt;&gt; Why? Explanations vary, but it would be territorial after their issues with Steven Jones and splitting the credit even further wasn't also likely that Pons and Fleischmann were particularly Chase Peterson, who they were now any embarrassment that came along with it. Many Fleischmann dealt with the stress far better than a confident public speaker, whereas Pons was circle of friends. And as questions about the cracking under the pressure. Quote: "I don't think almost as though a stone in the shoe would have behave when they're under far more pressure than Bockris, one of Pons' remaining allies, At first, Rossi had understood Pons and with other groups, but as the months marched now frustrated with their unwillingness to play something to the effect of "we're losing the they agreed to some form of partnership, they set later, Rossi found out that they set them up but with nothing to collect data. In other into a jar of water for show. Rossi would most. He didn't assume fraud for the longest and mentioned that he was quote: "sandbagging the Pons when he submitted a funding request for By August the institute had and their names didn't start with a P or desperate. BYU flatout refused to be reasons. Eventually he did sign on Marvin &gt;&gt; Reporter: If this is not fusion, if it is &gt;&gt; Who lost? Are you kidding, we've done imagination, we have got the public thinking in Not a single person. If this goes absolutely &gt;&gt;Narrator: Mark Anderson, who had taken over leave cold fusion behind. In the meantime, Rossi in a sort of watchdog role. Mike about the drama surrounding the gamma rays &gt;&gt; One, has fusion been seen here at the energy output that Pons and Fleischmann see due to &gt;&gt; Reporter: It's probably something else? &gt;&gt; Our attitude is-- we're raising our hands, we don't know what it is. It's possible it &gt;&gt; He offered to set up some of his detectors in Anderson that a cell was boiling. Salamon and rushed off to get more equipment. Except when Anderson to turn it off so they wouldn't waste was the only time in over a month he had seen prevent him from getting any meaningful data. Then and so Salamon took his gear and he left. Pons there had been one cell with excess heat but it just so happened to occur right after a was the kind of coincidence that was On August 23rd, Salamon holds a press conference on to write a very negative paper and submitted anniversary of the original press conference. threatening letters accusing him of libel to use Triggs to silence critics before, but Salamon was a fellow professor at U of U, causing of U had previously paid Gary Triggs as much technically, U of U was paying a lawyer so that their professors. This was a massive conflict public, U of U cut ties with Triggs. Salamon too involvement, even in a sort of an adversarial stupid on my part. It was beginning to On September 26th Rossi tells the Salt Lake City solid data to present by February, then they'll response to a direct question from a reporter, Quote: "State-funded lab may soon stop cold-fusion and Pons and Fleischmann think back. In private they send letters "He's bent...he lies out of his teeth." Now you've Rossi wants to resign but realizes the terrible But the final straw for him was the double-blind full in on the third decay branch as their but if the palladium rods showed evidence of of fusion. And so a bunch of skeptical labs like let us analyze them. After much back and neutral third party acted as a mediator. Two of control. One rod was completely clean and had run in fusion cells and had supposedly generated the labs testing for helium don't know which rods sent where. It's a double blind test. On October third party. The deal was that both parties would and then he just refused to share which rods knowingly, ruined the double blind nature of were just as confusing. The rod that was supposed Whether this was an accidental contamination or but it rendered the entire experiment useless. supposedly generated heat did not show helium wanted to publish these results, but Gary Triggs helium results were only made public an entire a step too far for Rossi. Not only that, if he stayed involved with cold fusion, they'd &gt;&gt; The interim director of Utah's cold fusion institute is stepping down to &gt;&gt; News Anchor: But the man who's headed claims convenience, not conflict, &gt;&gt; When he was back at U of U, he joined the of the institute. Pons and Fleischmann would be [Music] There was just one problem. They were Fleischmann was the easier one to track down. He for medical reasons. He claimed the school had and he declined to attend the review. Pons on the was so rarely in his own lab that some people own home, although there was no major he's just gone. He has subs teaching his classes. he is. The first official contact from him is resigning as a tenured professor, and asks for a ask for a year long leave of absence, which crushing for Pons. By this point, physicist Frank which came as close as UK libel law would allow, had interviewed Fleischmann, he appeared to lay But the hate had extended to his family. some threatening. His wife Sheila described her. Quote: "Our daughter was in school. a very sensitive age. Some of the children said to us. Why do we have Utah smeared like this a source of Utah pride. But the state had turned is told in February that it's highly unlikely The next time Pons was seen in Utah was when for which he was required to make an appearance. General told him he didn't have a choice. This foot in Utah. When questioned by the review it was first announced to the world. To Pons, Following some investigative reporting it made to the cold fusion institute that did not university funds that Chase Peterson shuffled incredibly deceptive, clearly an attempt to reel and a private company halted their donation of pushed on him by the faculty. They wanted him Peterson says he did not necessarily believe even an infinitesimal chance it was, that the it. He clearly believed that enough that it cost he announced he would resign in a year's and they let him live out his remaining term as a 1991. That same month the institute is shut down. had run out, and no new money was coming in. It The same could be seen in miniature in taboo. Only Wayne Owens, representative for giving a passionate speech arguing for continued way he's speaking you'd think he was addressing a a wider shot of the chamber, it feels almost We should take a moment to who had spent that past several pragmatic and rational version of Pons and Yale to collaborate. They had offered up their Jones' claim was that he saw no excess heat, but &gt;&gt; The confidence level is about 1 chance in 2 &gt;&gt; Narrator: Yale was even going to shut to lower the background radiation. This his credibility. But several months went &gt;&gt; I'm not sure you're doing Moshe. You have to look at the--you look at just-- &gt;&gt; You are not sure I am &gt;&gt; Jones: My experiment. &gt;&gt; --but I am convinced that you're &gt;&gt; Narrator: Jones refused to put his name of neutrons. The Yale group went ahead and Jones' claims. There are other controversial is the tritium spiking allegations at Texas of fraud by fellow professors and a journalist. and in the end did not conclusively prove readings that were once credited with keeping 1989 were almost certainly due to contamination. career. Pons had warned many people of the deadly fears come true. On January 2nd 1992, a group at mixed together a highly flammable amount of was just a normal deadly explosion. Three people was killed in the blast. The lab continued their A year goes by. Then another. Cold fusion has as a colossal waste of time, energy and money. doing it through self funding, or they're doing of what their bosses might say if they found it's seen as beneath you. Anyone who wanted to didn't exist. For the public, who can only follow future that was ripped away from them. The lofty yet to pan out. They were promised a future that a gallon of sea water was enough to power a city. no more Chernobyls. Cold fusion had instead become Simpsons. That thing you heard about a few years before moving on with your day. But there were they believe something more sinister happened. physicists? The Big Banks? Big Oil? Even as early that some sort of coverup must be happening. &gt;&gt; Caller: All right you know on an they said there's nothing to this fusion was wondering who's trying to cover it up &gt;&gt; Uh, sure-- &gt;&gt; Narrator: Among the most prominent of these time of the Utah announcement he was MIT's press releases. He believed that researchers disprove cold fusion, and resigned in protest. He documentary arguing that cold fusion was a victim &gt;&gt; The field of cold fusion has been marginalized about it, and pejorative terminology has no bearing at all on what's being junk science. It's just basically name that cold fusion works like hot fusion is tube. It's idiotic, it's stupid, it makes &gt;&gt; He will spend the rest of his life arguing couple years away. Always a couple years away. &gt;&gt; Pons and Fleischmann themselves did they go? To the south of France that's where. &gt;&gt; Narrator: A company called Technova had research. Technova as it turned &gt;&gt; Reporter: Pons and Fleischmann now work Japanese. In retrospect they recall they really &gt;&gt; Narrator: Yet another moment of irony. seemed happy to be giving interviews. But it &gt;&gt; I can remember that I was extremely been treated extremely unjustly which were not operating within the bounds of in that respect. I really don't have any feelings &gt;&gt; Fleischmann: I think you become numb &gt;&gt; You become numb to it. &gt;&gt; Narrator: But if anything, &gt;&gt; I mean the criticisms that came just unwarranted. Could almost use &gt;&gt; Reporter: And how many years away might &gt;&gt; Well the first the first prototypes we built now are--need to be redesigned. I would &gt;&gt;Reporter: Within a year? You're kidding. &gt;&gt; No I think that's attainable. &gt;&gt; Narrator: This prediction by Pons did not had a permanent falling out. Japan's and a year later the lab closed entirely. We have very few details about what went down Fleischmann and Pons disagreed on the direction was being ignored. The 2012 documentary The with Fleischmann. It ends with the question of the man he used to host a yearly Christmas painful memory. He ponders for a moment what he "How are you?" And after a bit of laughter, research?" Fleischmann will never fully give touch with those in the field, and even attend the in 2012 due to complications from Parkinson's. he would eventually vanish off the face of his wife. He has no plans to return to the never given a recorded interview since. All we [Music] In 1911, frustrated by a flood of patent the US Patent Commissioner mandated that all for a full year before it would be accepted. To a perpetual motion machine. And in 2004 the reject any submission that mentioned cold fusion. but it's nearly impossible for them not to in some form. By the late 1990s cold fusion culture as a synonym for nonsense science. papers mentioning cold fusion since 1989. 1989 and 1990 the publication rate falls off a As early as 1994 even advocates had begun to was a misnomer. It hadn't been coined by Pons effect they were seeing might not even be fusion. effect. Steven Jones tried to push for, quote: but his word salad never caught on. The only or L.E.N.R. Short for low energy nuclear and could apply to a dozen different phenomena. acronym is divisive, as some people insist that nuclear reactions, or some other variant. And highly splintered, full of conflicting theories, and Fleischmann left the public eye, there was Some insist it's still fusion, while others argue can be a new source of energy, others argue it's occur in heavy water, others say light water works others have moved on to nickel. Some believe to something real, while others believe scientific establishment buried their results in 60 competing theoretical models, none of which who claim to see neutrons or tritium admit that The LENR advocates feel they have been pushed them seriously. Nobel Laureate Julian Schwinger when they refused to publish his papers on it. Forums that serve as echo chambers, where wrong questions. The crux of the issue but the reputation trap is based advocates are respectable researchers with solid Micheal McKubre from Stanford research, and According to this proposal from a futurist there were 114 entities actively engaged But for every person with a decent attached themselves to LENR's and cold fusion whose theory would require a complete a new type of particle he called the hydrino. which means that a third party experimentalist signing an IP agreement with him. Then who promised commercial cold fusion reactor is a blatant snakeoil salesman, with a prior Despite his claims all patents he's been awarded had his Nevada cold fusion startup go bankrupt charges from the SEC. Those are just some of Take Nobel Laureate Brian Josephson. He he advocates for homeopathy, quantum mysticism former cardiologist turned cold fusion advocate, In the 2012 doc The Believers, he can be seen Parkinsons, as cold fusion is the mechanism that Irving's medical license was revoked in 1995. promoting cold fusion, and the way she speaks missionaries speak about their work. Quote: "You or leave one at the doctor's waiting room, your terminal - someone is sure to be inspired." Even cold fusion guy, descended into conspiracy when an inside job. This photo has been cropped the ways with BYU in 2006 over his views. Even if we credible scientists on this end of the spectrum, reason to be skeptical. The fact that cold fusion it any favours. With all of this in mind, it was in Nature titled "Revisiting the case of cold labs took four years to try and induce cold was that one of the labs was funded by Google. One of the authors, Chiang, stressed that to his excess heat, once all energy sources and sinks are other authors, Matt Trevithick, he responded with LENR believers nor skeptics have done enough work covers a vast parameter space. In the limited difficulty of producing the conditions under Another group I spoke to, ReResearch, similarly products. As for why the repeatability of thermal calibrations runs are far shorter than the when you calibrate for longer than the experiment reliable. Quote: "As the majority of research this kind of calibration stability, that As skeptical as I am I understand why &gt;&gt; As it was pointed out we're in so we're going--or 2040 I think he said, so we're that's why we're going to push as hard as we &gt;&gt; The issues that felt so urgent back in 1989 are and are barely any closer to solving them. The divisive that they feel impossible to implement. source of energy that can be powered by our most a magic bullet that would render everything else through this cycle before, and we'll go through it With all that being said, with the renewed have finally gotten their wish. In 2023 the $10 million to LENR research, spread across five but to put that in context, I'd point out that fusion research. The $10 million is also not just that it warrants more funding to, in their for LENR is insufficient due to the ambiguous potential sources of measurement error, I have not read the vast majority of what's I cannot tell you definitively that there isn't if the US government or Google wants to divert am confident on is that the work of Pons and mired with dishonesty. In recent years history. As to whether they were treated The last time cold fusion made prime time news interviewing Martin Fleischmann. The special had people have been making since the 90s. Fleischmann &gt;&gt; When you hold that in your hand and you think back on what's happened these &gt;&gt; The wasted opportunity. &gt;&gt; Wasted? Because it was discredited at the time? &gt;&gt;Narrator: What it did show was a man how this things went so wrong. &gt;&gt; I'm getting you interested again? &gt;&gt; Yes &gt;&gt; Interviewer: The potential is exciting? &gt;&gt; The potential is exciting, yes. &gt;&gt; The truth is, you can't really kill an idea. Once it's out there you can Hey! Did you know I'm producing a 17 Pages? Well it's true. It covers one of the history of American science. And you'll be able Nebula is the creator-owned streaming service I'm creators on the internet. There you can ad-free. Not only do I post my videos 2 weeks Nebula Originals not found anywhere else. and Nebula has been helping me elevate every to film interviews, I've commissioned some with a composer for the music. We've even got a Making documentaries is my full time job now, up to Nebula using my link. With it you'll which works out to just $3 a month. A significant as long as you're subscribed, which will help Support me and many others by signing up for