- About a year ago, a thought struck me. And I terms with it since. And that thought is this. addictions that are good for you? Like, what's the to keep myself happy, and if not running every psychologically speaking, any different from This idea really hit home for me the past few I used to have terrible eating habits. Many of addiction. If you put a dessert in front of me the spoon from entering my mouth. Even if I was in drink, it was a given that drinks two, three, and To not order them was extremely uncomfortable and to undo these habits, I did what everybody does. tortured myself until I stuck to it. But as time work, at least not in the long run. What I slowly to become addicted to the things that were good whole foods now, I start missing them. I start than two or three days without exercise, I start can exercise again. It was in this that I realized unhealthy demons so much as converting them into of my life and I notice the same thing. I'm known that when we go on vacation, I'm gonna be I get over not being able to work. Now, depending productive or I'm a fucking workaholic Who's to say? To be honest, both things are over the past couple years, I'm slowly arriving of addictive or compulsive behaviors so much compulsions. Now, my guest today is the perfect Rich Roll is most famous as a podcaster. In fact, of the most requested guests that I've gotten. endurance athlete. He once completed five Iron What the fuck. And more notably, his entire ultra But perhaps most interestingly, Rich is also wake up and pour yourself a vodka tonic before he got sober that he developed an interest in deep on this one. We talk about all sorts of productivity, and discipline. We talk about the and if there really is a difference between the and how this has both an outsized positive and 12 step program, what they get right and what they for so many people for over a century now. We talk but a failed solution to the real problem, and to define a secular version of spirituality and and physical fitness. We talk about how Rich spent family before his career finally took off, and how through that time. And finally, Rich shares with about. All of that and much more. Now, - [Narrator] Bro, do you even podcast? Not Giving a F*ck&quot; podcast with your host, - Good to see you. Thanks for having me, man. - [Mark] Yeah. - I'm excited about this. - Last time I saw you, we had a conversation. I saw you, I've been like, I wanna talk about &quot;Is there a connection between recovered I'm curious of the connection between the - Yeah, a hundred percent. There's there's a direct pipeline between - To 13 steps. - Maybe like Elon Musk create a boring tunnel in there. And I think it has a lot to do with the is just generalizing, are drawn to extremes. they do that when they're active in their disease They will reach outside of themselves that will medicate them and ameliorate whatever in recovery, you get tools for how to then to live a healthier life. But the gambling choose your poison isn't the problem. That's the and you have to break up with your best friend, to kind of navigate life for so long, when that's emotional confusion. And the tools that you learn what we call emotional sobriety. And they allow the core of myself, and I've learned in recovery, to my own experiences, is still that allure to of kind of heightening your lived experience. But within many addicts to be a seeker, you know. those answers in unhealthy ways until they, you But that sensibility or that inclination towards vehicle for doing that in a healthier way. I also sports to run away from their problems in the a question that I get quite frequently is like, you're just using this sport in the same way give to that is probably. You know, there's some isn't really being honest. There is an escapism, because I'm training for this thing. And then your life. But I also think the other piece that's difficult experience into your life. And that's a bottle, which is always the easy choice. Like, cold and rainy out and get out the door. What's that always ends up with the same result, which not a binary thing. I think it's a more nuanced, endurance is a magnet for so many people in of one of these races, lots of fully tatted dudes - A lot of recovering heroin addicts and it's a way of indulging that proclivity towards - There's a lot of interesting threads a relationship with pain. I think doing but continuing to do it anyway. Like, I think, you or four, and they're like, &quot;Oh, I'm starting most people get to mile three or mile four, and now.&quot; And so the the personality type that I find it really interesting. Disposition myself both a failed endurance athlete and a - A failed alcoholic. - I drank a lot. But I just - I don't know whether I failed - I think if you're a successful are able to be a functional drinker for - Anyway, I don't know what I am. And we could talk about that later. I quit - And you look a lot better. You look - It's been profound. - Your skin looks different. - I'd actually like to talk about that at heard that there's a high that people get like once you push through a certain amount of starts happening. But I'm curious how you - I mean, pain has been my greatest teacher. when you talk about pain or you want to define motivation behind the pain. The alcoholic might sense that you're a piece of shit and you're you know, validate the veracity of that, you know, pain can be this incredibly powerful invite a certain amount of suffering into the capacity to kind of see yourself through it that can be an act of self-esteem if your from a place of trying to grow as opposed to the you know, pain is really, you know, pain's really change my ways. Like I'm a stubborn motherfucker. comfort zone and look at my behavior patterns and So it's only when they lead me so astray and have negative life outcomes that I'm finally forced to And that change is being driven by pain. So present enough with yourself and have a degree of are going awry and you want to course correct. the choice is always availability to do something a change. I just think there's something into our bodies and into our minds that make us - I've heard you talk about the turning points of pain a lot of times. And I've heard addicts pain in order to change. What was it about change? Was it just the requisite amount of perspective that you had that that led you to the pain itself? I mean, was there anything - Yeah, it's a good question. I don't know that I think back on the day that I finally decided wasn't dissimilar from a thousand other mornings was an incident the night before that was a was an alcoholic. It wasn't like a mystery. You gonna have to like, deal with this problem. I was a little bit of mysticism here. Like that day level of willingness that I didn't have before. no direct relationship with any event that had that. It was a growing awareness that this was existential angst that was becoming increasingly - Yeah. - You know, I'm done. And I don't know why to extrapolate on that point, it was like this I talk about like a line in the sand. Like it just if I don't act now, that moment will pass. And of kind of willingness that I'm experiencing now. you know, I was turning 40 and was fat and just disgusted with my career path and very once again, had a moment of willingness of pain that motivated me to like, take different. But I don't know. Like, I - It's an interesting question because I think turning moment, like those turning And what's interesting about number of moments that probably - Oh, sure. - You got arrested. You had DUIs. You had a of your classic rock bottom moments. But it of denied your way through all those. And then oh, I gotta get my shit together. And you it's just kind of, you wake up one day and oh my God, I can't do this, right? I found there's like the big major moments something don't. And then it's like a random - Yeah. - You know, maybe I should quit drinking. - Yeah, yeah. The reality is a lot more mundane we can spin from it. And it is funny 'cause was going to sleep. And I was thinking about the starting when I was a teenager. Like I was, my and any one of those incidents should have been On some level, it gets lodged in your brain. your own best interest. But it doesn't move the the denial is so powerful. And the capacity to it takes a lot to get to a place where that see the reality of your predicament. And it's not which is why it's so baffling and heartbreaking to from addiction. You know, I talk to a lot of throes of addiction. And, you know, they say, an intervention. Whether or not that's gonna can't compel another person to be willing to raise receive that help. It's an internally driven interior circumstances. And the elevator, you I had lots of bottoms, you know? And the day that you think you've hit bottom, there's always when you are an addict in denial, you're always are worse than you and say, &quot;Well, I'm not that not that. So I'm okay. Or if I can wake up and go no matter how horrible I feel, then I'm okay. And and further and further until it just becomes so - You've talked about addiction as a spectrum. - I think we're in an interesting are beginning to understand that addiction spectrum. And I think that's in large part due phones where we all experience some level of you know, we continue to do something that we addiction was seen as sort of an on off switch. needle out of your arm, or you're the drunk a tent down on Skid Row. But the longer I've been really do believe that it is a spectrum condition - [Mark] Yeah. - So you don't have to be a full-blown alcoholic of addiction in your life. If you're somebody always ends up with the same kind of person in pattern again and again and again despite, there is some argument to be made that there is a related to addiction. Like, we're compelled by our when we were kids and the experiences that we had patterns that move us in the wrong direction. And to override our dopamine system and kind of that otherwise we wouldn't, or that we thought it's sort of liberating to think of it in that to this a little bit better. And we don't have of addiction as, you know, bad people, but rather a more extreme degree of, you know, what we - I'm curious. 'Cause I've been thinking quitting alcohol. Struggling with this idea. would ever identify as an alcoholic, but it was curious. Like I agree with your take on addiction that I act more compulsively than I would like. us most addicted to at the moment? Like, if you feel is like your most addictive activity. For I'm a workaholic. But I've got, I mean, I've - But let me ask you this. When you quit drinking, - Yes. - [Rich] Did the intensity of your work? - Absolutely. Yeah. - So you have the underlying wound or whatever alcohol. But that like beast is still in there and gonna reach for whatever is available that's you know, kind of medicating or distracting are that led you to an unhealthy relationship excavating what those emotions are and then heal them is where the liberation is you. If I had to raise my hand right now, I - Yeah. - I work way too much. And I can distract work. And then my phone, like everyone like I know better. You know, and I continue to And I don't end up reading books and doing other - Totally. Drew. - Work is definitely, I don't know if I've ever years ago too. And now I'm off social media - Drew has no vices. - Yeah. - That's not true. No, that's not true. Including work as, I haven't labeled an addiction, but for sure. And it's getting right to that, what yourself from whatever the underlying issue either and I'm kind of trying to figure that quitting like social media, news, stuff like that kinda self-righteous indignation, feeling - That's a great one. That's a new one. - [Drew] Yeah. - That's like really a problem. - Since I've quit all of that, I've noticed just how, I just don't have that as much anymore. - Yeah. - Yeah. - I wonder like, 'cause absolutely. Like there is the term addictive personality. Like, people who are just fundamentally - I think so. I think there is a genetic piece to it for sure. But I don't think that - Of course. - Yeah. - Yeah. Well, this raises another question. This kind of gets into the workaholism thing. like if I'm in a room with like my family at a conference, I'm an extremely disciplined - Well, workaholism is socially validated too. - Yeah. Yeah. - You're not a pariah if you're workaholic. You're gets celebrated. And that I think becomes, in accolades and, you know, in celebration, - [Mark] Yeah. - Like you go on the internet and you hustle porn and all that kind of stuff, and enhance your social profile and your status it's no different than the addictions - Yeah. Well, it's to bring it back like you hear stories about - Right. - And it's- - Or the Ironman widow. You know what I mean? - Yes. - It's like, are you running towards something - Yeah. How do you know the difference? - I think the more self-actualized and trustworthy your instincts are, the more reliable it will kind of tell you where you're at. you're bouncing around and there's I don't think that your instincts or not trustworthy in the same way. So you - [Mark] Yeah. - Do you think that the modern addictions are, really lend - Yeah, just imagine. We all think that we're solid opinions based upon available evidence. And to which we're being constantly manipulated. I and billboards and, you know, we have an every single one of us has our own bespoke you better than you know yourself, that serves you to buy something, and an information flow in the way that you were talking about. I'm not the first to say this, this massive social basically are walking around in a reactive way, manipulated for, you know, whether it's somebody the machinations of our increasingly algorithm - Yeah, that's what I, after like something I came to realize was that I about places and people I've never seen And that to me was like a wow. That - It's interesting. I don't know if since kind of exiting the news media cycle, when I come across people who are inside it they're worked up about, it's very similar very drunk person and being like, wow, I can't holy shit. It's eyeopening for - Would you say that twelve-step - A hundred percent. - So since you went through this twelve-step interviewed hundreds of people. You've done all all these books. Talked to dozens and dozens on the twelve-step program changed? And if so, and experience since. Because the world of it's notorious for nothing being consistent or and a couple other things, like nothing has really program. Twelve-step program is one of the few years later, still working for people. So I'm - I'm a staunch defender of twelve-step. I'm in it. I absolutely believe that it not only life. And I've seen it produce miracles. in to the program completely broken and utterly unredeemable with all kinds of mental well, that's like a lost cause over there. And productive members of society, but incredible the level of service that I see, selfless something I don't see in my normal life. It - Yeah. - And, you know, AA twelve-step gets a lot of are very quick to dismiss it as this archaic, have science and we have all these tools. And I've something pops up where it's like, everything you solution or our new protocol. And you don't have like, okay. You know, and they just, they come know what persists? Twelve-step. And I think the for life. Like anybody. You don't have to be an you with this incredible framework to evaluate proclivities, but also your resentments and your okay, you do this inventory. And then you identify understand, you know, why you behave a certain way visit all of these people that you've wronged over or, you know, that you've transgressed in some people. You're meant to make an amend, which means past. And there's something very challenging about you're basically cleaning up your past. So all of shame is like this driver of, you know, that you make those amends and you kind of embrace to that. There's an incredible freedom where this experience that you can then share with other like they say in a like, stick with the winners. how do I know who the winners are? And the answer all we have is today. And doesn't matter how long times. You're still gonna have resentments and take turns and we support each other. And I don't you can show up to a room with a group of people feel totally alone and broken, and people will return. Like, it's really a remarkable thing. actually work and improve lives, but also because there's no boss. There's no one in charge. There's Like, it's almost as if they figured out a model true to its roots and its essence. I feel like on this. Like, how is it that it hasn't been who's, you know, squirreling away the money or any when it reaches a certain scale, ultimately, you survived because of this really cool model where And there's a loose network. And there is a home is volunteer basis and nobody is in charge. Just the least reliable people in the world. You know - And it's one of the most enduring organization. - Like, it's just a massive insane asylum, you know? And there's something really kind there was another part to your question. - Or has it? - Or has changed? Yeah. - Has your views evolved since? - I think, well, one thing that's changed is I'm in other ways. You know, I used to be pretty And now I understand, I know plenty of people you know, use drugs or alcohol or quit gambling to be like, yeah, we'll see, you know. Call But I'm much more open-minded about that. And I that I don't look to AA as the only remedy to what men's group that I attend where I sit down once by a therapist. And that's just about life stuff. take to AA because it's not really about my necessarily related to my alcoholism that I need in other ways too. I mean, AA is a spiritual you don't hear a lot about that other than we read &quot;The Big Book of Alcoholics Anonymous,&quot; it is beyond in your own way. Like there's no dictates learned to explore that outside of the construct - I got a question about amends, if we can go ask somebody about this because I think a lot struggle with how to deal with forgiveness I'm sure that it's a very healing experience to go back and make amends with people. - Sometimes. Not always. - [Drew] Oh, yeah. Right. - [Rich] Doesn't always go well. - We can talk about that. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. Go Ahead. Sorry. - But also, I think there's probably more don't accept that from you, right? Who who don't forgive you. What's that sure there were people like that who, you - Yeah, and that's fine. - Yeah. - That's fine. The amend isn't necessarily for your emotional ties to that experience. And it's it's not even appropriate to make a direct amend you're there to like, heal a situation. And problematic and you know that approaching might harm that person or upset them in a way person, then the amend has to be a living however you contributed to that unhealthy behavior anymore going forward, right? So, sexual relationships and the sexual inventory back to some person that you cheated on or where you had an unhealthy kind of dynamic with - Yeah, reopen that wound. - You know, it's, yeah. It's like do that. So it's like, okay, or, you know, better yet, maybe you - Speaking of cheating exes. - Oh, dude. - How do you like that segue? I was really blown You had an almost marriage. Basically, you away. And we can cover that if you want. But you beauty lies in destruction. Looking back, it is me was absolutely crucial in precipitating and will always be eternally grateful.&quot; I get a cheating partners, failed marriages, people anger. And I feel like that paragraph is, if get everybody to a spot, like that's the A, like how long of a process was that for - It was a long process. It took me, I mean, I that really was my bottom, you know? And it no way I could've immediately gotten sober. I that experience that I felt I had no choice other you know, where I hit that bottom and decided I've ever gone through. So I got to that place make that assessment when you're in the heat of perspective requires patience and time and then work involved therapy and also twelve-step. And it and completely taking her behavior out of it. We &quot;They did this and they did this and they did this But really, all that does is create more it doesn't really solve the problem or move you to just get super honest and clear with how I, not create it. Like these things, relationships don't There's always somebody who created a scenario in that choice that you're so upset about. So all you and try to correct it and try to understand, you you know, on a macro level, to really believe happening for you. And these difficult experiences around pain. When bad things happen, it is an to grow. And our job is to identify the growth in those obstacles. And no one wants to hear - Easy for you to say. - I certainly did it. You know, I'm not here I was a fucking wreck, you know. And I acted very painful situation that I had to go it gave me clarity on how I was living my how to create a better life for myself. it's like, thank God that happened. Thank God I don't know that I would be sitting here, an amazing life now. And all of these painful you know, guideposts, but they're my greatest and the groundedness and the wherewithal to this experience and how can I change and grow,&quot; of elevate beyond those experiences and create new - So what would you say to somebody like you said, nobody wants - I know. I know. I know. Yeah. I mean, I'm not that I would say is like, do an inventory on single way in which you, you know, created, your own that for yourself. Like take ownership over. or how they're gonna behave. That's part of what we dilute ourselves into thinking that we can do and your reaction or your response to external over that, that's where you begin to have and the upset part of that, I think derives somebody did that to me and it was wrong. this is unjust. It's unfair. And you want been treated. But what are you gonna do with forward? The only thing that's gonna help you your own behavior and the ways in which you - You can either be right or be happy. - Right. Yeah, yeah. - Would you say that some of that, it's almost growth. 'Cause you've mentioned now a few times question is like, how do you see spirituality - Yeah, spirituality is definitely part define spirituality. I never have a good - Does anyone have a good- - I wish I have some really pithy, like, it's definitely something that has nothing to in the ways in which the mystical beyond is do is reflect on my own life and all the thousands care of or spared from disaster or, you know, my life. And there's just no way, like, I'm very which I love and is beyond anything I could have like my planning or my self will. It just doesn't. investing in myself and trying to be a better of integrity by being of service to other people. get out of my own head and my self obsession and it's not like, you know, it's not like, I'm not, like helping other people. I wanna do what I want just basically caress my ego and, you know, all myself and I extend myself selflessly to others, tend to, and the problems that seem overwhelming explanation for that. And I think that provides and humility also. We think we know what's going around and we're in space and we're like, yeah, me? Like, do we? We don't actually know what's the subatomic particle level all the way to the, expanding universe level, the more insane it understand what's happening is our ego. And I that extra lobe in our brain that would allow us me to have an appreciation for the beyond. And it - Yeah, and I think you talked too about It's not a static life that we live, or even all the way from the subatomic all the way fight against that so much. We think things are then this would happen. I think there's a very the more I see that as well. It's - Yeah. - You're very, very much not in control. - You're not in control. And yeah, people are - [Drew] Right, and it's like everything is- - Yeah, to the sub-atomic. Everything's ever. So nothing is constant other than always changing. We're always evolving. We're these things. And we walk around under this - Yeah. - And I think, again, like to like hone in on much needed humility. - What would you say too is like the, you know, what's the relationship between the physical you mentioned it at the outset about kind getting at the edge. What's that the more extreme physical things you've done Because I've always been fascinated - It's a great question. I mean, to me, it's all spiritual. Like the physical was just more spiritual. And I think had I had the that I would put a picture of me running on the - God damn. Look at that. Look. That physique. - Yeah, but I think the mistake that gets made is and on some level, I guess it is. But the point into the world of ultra endurance and training for about becoming this competitive athlete in my mid more relatable journey that we all go on to try who we're meant to be and trying to find a way I didn't even, it was an unconscious thing. Like bike long distances because I was in so much I didn't know how to change my life. And I needed you know, kind of low grade, but elevated exertion you know, kind of actively meditative about that in a very tactile way and the space and the time out who it was that I wanted to be. So again, somebody else, it could be something entirely as much as anything else for the exploration I whether foisted upon us through crisis or just by you know, for answers because we realize or, you know, on the wishes of our parents we need to find, you know, we need to - So as a failed endurance. - Why do you keep saying that though? - I'm saying that tongue in cheek 'cause podcast marathon at the beginning of this year. And - Yeah. - And then- - But this is part of the process. - You've not failed. - I was like, fuck this shit. - Don't deny yourself your process, Mark. - You don't have to be an endurance athlete. - I'm joking. I'm totally joking. But I really to three hours is incredibly uncomfortable, even was like, it wasn't physically hard in the way mile is hard. Like that's just absolutely, The endurance stuff was like, it was like this low you stand this? And apparently, I can't stand it fuck this shit. I'm done. But I'm curious she's run like six or eight marathons. She's And I talked to her about it. And she was like, get good.&quot; Like she didn't understand what I was just wired differently.&quot; But I'm curious like, that kicks in after a couple hours. Like how do it was just like, wow, I'd give anything to be - Yeah. But that is where it gets good. - Yeah. - Because that's that point where you're - Yeah. - And what you're made of. And I love it. Like I also think if you are actually training properly, zone two state of exertion and you'll be able to feel like you have to quit. Like it can become an to it. Like, I like train, it's like the highlight a lunatic then. I'm not doing that now. And part I've learned what I needed to learn from those that happens in your relationship with time. Like, And I'm in that like, state of like, at the edge of time in terms of exertion. But you work up on an 80 foot wave like overnight. Like you build you know, two years, getting to the point where normal and you're used to it. I got to the point and run a marathon like before breakfast so efficient at this one form of movement that that someone like you is experiencing. It's a oh, I only have an eight hour ride today. And then two hours more. That's like watching a movie. you're like, wow, I was out all day. I couldn't - Yeah. Yeah. - And then it just becomes - Does your perception of time like slow down, speed up? Like does that eight - Yeah. The eight hours, I mean, it doesn't eight hours or it doesn't feel like if you like an eternity, right? So it feels - I think to your point though too, you said not right? An endurance athlete. But I you have to find something - Yeah, you have to put yourself in an to meet yourself somewhere you're reluctant to go. right? And this is how we grow and evolve. put yourself in difficult situations, then how are the same time, we can get stuck in ruts with like I could just keep doing these races then I would be running away from something. oh, you run so far or whatever. But it's actually not that uncomfortable. It's like - It becomes the new, it's the new comfort zone. - It's a new comfort. - Yeah. - You know, what's really uncomfortable is talking about shit you don't want to talk than going out and doing that long run that applaud you for. So you have to always was uncomfortable is no longer uncomfortable, - I get that. I got that way with books I'm sure I'll write another book at some point. another fat carrot. And by carrot, I mean big it was like, I could do this until the day I die. I'm repeating myself. I'm just, you know, going myself creatively. I'm not pushing my career into And so then it wouldn't be exciting to I wouldn't have to learn and grow and - Figure out how to put fuck in the title. - Yeah, I mean, at some point, there's only - Is that still going on still? Are people - It slowed down. But they - Yeah. - Imitation is the highest form of flattery. - Unless you were to write, you know, into an uncomfortable place so that it becomes - I would, yes. I hit a point where I which I think nobody in the publishing world and try video and podcasting and some of this typical self-help nonfiction lane, it's like, I - [Rich] Sure. - Like, you can't just sit hits over and over again. Like nobody likes that. - Yeah, I hear that. I'm writing a a book since &quot;Finding Ultra,&quot; - [Rich] Oh, yeah? - So yeah. - What's it about? - I promised myself I wouldn't say. Yeah, yeah. - I get it. I get it. - But it's very confronting. - How's it going? - It's a very different kind of book. - Yeah. - And it is based on lived experience over the - No. - It's really not easy. And I do think that I'm a pretty good writer. I think like, you know, it's one of the better And the joke that I always tell is like, distraction from not having to write another running away. And now, it's finally caught up to hard it is. And also, my life is so much busier. nothing going on. And I worked on it, you know, - It's funny. I had a friend who's an obviously, I've never been pregnant. But she the perfect analogy for writing a book. And she Like as soon as the last one comes out, you like nature's way of deluding you into doing it you're like, oh my God, this is awful. you fall in love with it. And it's just and deep passionate emotion and love. And destroyed and then you immediately forget how - Yeah. But I would also imagine like like meaningful thing that you could do. - I think in terms of, like in terms of creative something just very special about the packaging of Like, I mean, books have been around for thousands special about it. And there's a staying power - Yeah, we're sitting here having on the table that I wrote 12 years - Yeah. - Like, you know, I've done - Yeah. - But, yeah. It speaks to the, you know, the sort of permanence of books that is - Yeah. - Even movies. Like, okay, &quot;Fall Guy&quot; came out recently. It bombed. - Well, I mean- - Our relationship with media. - Yes. So I did a movie three years ago. I did it three years ago. It came out a year and a I've done in my career, I got more messages from anything else I've ever done. Like, even when on &quot;The Today Show,&quot; like all that stuff. Never suddenly it's like, you know, Joe Schmo that you know, hitting me up on Facebook. So that it was like nothing happened. It was like, it was the things that you've done since the book. that you quit your job. I guess this was a year it was like incredibly agonizing and terrifying. I there's like financial instability. But you didn't was interesting because that is another one of point. It's different than hitting bottom But it's another transition. And it's another - Yeah, I mean that is a whole other kind of saga book to elaborate on in too much detail, but as undergone and, you know, it didn't happen quickly flipped of like, I'm quitting my job and I'm doing corporate law life and then continued to practice two partners, and then I was solo again, and of slowly receding into the background like Homer making any money. So it wasn't like this, you enterprise. Like I was training and doing these And not for nothing. Like all my client, I was loved working with independent filmmakers, and I fulfilling 'cause I was working with artists and I was part of the team in doing that. The problem money, I'm the last person they want to pay. And had great experiences. And I got to help make some interesting people in this shadow artist capacity. but being, you know, the person behind the I was the one who's getting paid the least oh, I'm quitting this job that's paying all my barely making ends meet. This book comes out. Times bestseller list. I got what I thought was who'd never written a book and really didn't have like those payments are meted out in small And I have four kids and a mortgage. And like, point. When the book came out, that was, in a my bar membership so I can't practice law. I was things didn't look all that different. And I think because I have this faith and this trust. Like a new way of making a living and supporting my and a trust that somehow like there's a solution There's like all these influencers and we see Like in 2012, like that wasn't so clear. There - No. - There was no blueprint or roadmap for how to, well, the phone's gonna ring. And I'll get, thing's gonna lead to another.&quot; But the phone this coming out. And then that was that. for something to happen and feeling like I didn't move the ball forward. And it was very, very - Wow. - Of real financial challenges. We came within 48 hours of losing our house. - Wow. - I've told this story before. But I couldn't so they took away our trash bins. And we had 200,000 miles in it and we would put our garbage store to put 'em in the, you know, bins. were going to the laundromat. And you've been right? So we were like either the richest - I never would have guessed - We were like squatters. We were like squatters emasculating, you know, to be, you know, the, wasn't able to solve this equation. And there were And I would tell my wife, like, &quot;I can just make get a job at a law firm.&quot; Like it's too painful. like clearly this isn't what I'm supposed to be and her, you know, kind of very devoted, you we were on this path that we were meant to be &quot;We've come too far.&quot; Like she knew who I was &quot;This is who you're supposed to be. Like, I but the only way they get answered is and you cannot retreat.&quot; And I mean, who she's incredible. And without that support I don't know that I would've made it. And she was who cares, you know. We're together - [Mark] Wow. - In a heightened circumstance that I - Yeah. - And we had to find a way to like, have like they can take the car away, but that's the choice that we have. And there was I had a orange Land Rover Discovery that I loved. that $230 payment on it or whatever for a couple Julie goes out into the driveway. And she's like, &quot;Hey, do you want a cup of tea? You want to come treated this man with kindness and generosity. just used to people throwing stuff at him and - Yeah. - She's like, he's like, &quot;You know - She's like, &quot;Oh, yeah. I know. It's great. Like, Do you need anything else?&quot; And that was like a that with just extreme equanimity and neutrality. &quot;Neutrality is a superpower.&quot; Like these things us. And to your point around control, like control in the way that we respond to them. And extreme neutrality, then you can navigate frame of mind to make better decisions because that makes you reactive. And, you know, as we all - Damn, dude. Bring your wife in here. - I was just gonna say. - We're done with you. You can leave now. - She's the better podcast guest. Trust me. podcast. And she'll just sit down and solo it, just drop wisdom. I'm like, &quot;How do you do - [Mark] That's super cool. - She's amazing. And, yeah. I'm very clear to like this whole journey that I'm on. - And I imagine that belief in you like - Well, she would say like, she was always able to that like, oh, you're in a relationship and they she never tried to change me. She was like, &quot;I hand. And she was somebody who lived her life you know, achievement, educated, focused household were what were important, and, you know, using the world. Like, this is how you operate. I grew very like structured how you kind of move up in she is an artist. And she's doing 10 things at And she has a different relationship with risk, I've never met anyone like that. And it was her and let me show you, you know, my ways&quot; that lens on which to, you know, kind of reflect on my - So when did the podcast start? Was that - Kind of, yeah. So I started it in late 2012- - Which is super early in podcast game. - Pretty early. Yeah, so what happened was did everything to push that out. And then in the creative vacuum. It's sort of like, well, what do that I've begun with this book or where do I place decision I made. And, yes. It was very early. I time in which it wasn't cool to start a podcast. But I'd fallen in love with the medium in like for all of these events, and I would have to spend distract me from the misery and the suffering and you know, yeah, I would listen to audiobooks. But discovered podcasts. And it was a time in which had to select the podcasts that you wanted to to like an iPod. There were no podcast apps and hadn't been sorted out. And I discovered like a certainly not as many podcasts as there are now, oh my God. I can't believe like you can listen to these successful people and they tell you exactly to this place and this is free? Like, I was other person that was listening to podcasts at loved it. And so I listened to probably thousands content when I made that decision. Like, hey, And doesn't look like there's a lot happening space on podcasts so let's just give it a try. in these yurts in Kauai. It's a whole other long were losing our house. And I got like this job guy who owned a big property there. And for some out how to develop this property. But it was - Yeah. - And nobody else was offering to pay me anything to Kauai and we had to live on this farm. And he living in Yurts and thinking, our house was you know. Little kids. And I was starting to, and to experience a little island fever. And I was things to try to make something happen. And now, you know, this island where there isn't very around like, trying to create something or take they had microphones and some equipment. And how you like get a podcast on iTunes. And you know - Yeah. - He had made like a series of videos where he equipment you need. Step by step. Like basically a notes and I was like, okay, I think I can figure okay, let's record one. And I sat down with, good place to host a podcast. Tin ceiling, and And we just recorded an episode. And at the end do you want to do it tomorrow? Like, that was it. launch this thing. And it just organically evolved very unique and different about that time was the were not starting pods. So I think our first a thousand or something like that. And it kind - Wow. - Yeah, so. - A thousand. - Because there was nothing else. And I was encouragement or, you know, affirmation. Like, well, anybody who opens up iTunes and goes to, that was like a, I chose to believe that to okay, this is something you should be doing and - Your podcast though, Rich, not only are you like people to do a podcast like that, I think, that bringing those stories out and getting to see really did hit scale, nobody knew about. And do you get the guests to come up, but you're probably had some practice with that though, as well. There was a section in the book you know, and you kind of bore your soul to from being so just kind of bearing your soul, I but probably in your own life too as well. - Yeah, I mean, I think the courage to that I try to model. But I think the word and commercialized, right? There's a lot - Yeah, hashtag vulnerability stuff. Yeah. - And, you know, vulnerability doesn't mean that everybody at every opportunity that you have. you know, sharing some of those harder things through recovery. I mean, listen. You go to in front of a group of people and starts just about the most insane things that they have done. they're not judged by the people who are in front what you get out of that is that those experiences to be ashamed of. They're things that happened have healed those things in a certain way, when as sometimes shocking. Like, oh my God. Like, he beneath the surface, people are like, wow. Like I think that that is like holding your hand out to come over here. There's a path forward for you in and embarrassed and ashamed and make you small you, that there is a different way forward. And I people permission to be vulnerable themselves. they're gonna be different for everyone. Like gonna be different from yours. But if I share there'll be something that you can connect to your a way of saying, in the context of podcasting, vulnerability or open with vulnerability because right? And I can't expect them to open up if you have to like create that safe environment wrote &quot;Finding Ultra,&quot; I mean, first of all, like, It's not like, I didn't even win any races. Like I'm not an Olympic athlete. I didn't, you know, my weight loss thing wasn't that dramatic. The plenty of people out there who have done far more and the way that I tell it? What is it about it I knew, I understood from my experience book would be able to connect with people was open about things that I'm not proud of. especially in an environment now where everybody say and we're all kind of walking on eggshells you wrote a whole book about it. You know, probably still more too captured by other - Yeah. - But in sharing our vulnerable moments, we to people in a world that I think is far too - Last set of questions. What do you you give not enough fucks about? - Interesting. I definitely still give too - [Mark] Interesting. - Yeah, and this is like, this is something could probably be cured for the most part - Is it the comment section specifically or is it like industry peers or is it - I mean, it's all of it. - All of the above? - You know what I mean? Like why do I care? a long time. Like I know who I am. I know, weaknesses are. And what I'm doing is not then of course you're gonna have all these a lot better. I'm just not as liberated from this conversation with Michael Gerber 'cause on the same subject. And he calls it FOPO. Like that becomes this impediment to mastery. So can be my guru. I'll get you to a point where - There we go. We'll trade off. - If you could gimme to give less fucks about what other people think. What - What do you give to me? What - Too few fucks about? Well, this is something I'm it's not that I give too few fucks about it, but I the intimacy of my friendships. You know, I'm 57 was fueled by some PTSD from having my trash cans place. But now, everything's cool. And I can kind that thing where it's all gonna get taken away. And that comes at the cost of spending time with and relationships and saying yes to experiences or, you know, you don't understand how busy enjoy my success and relax a little bit and as opposed to putting blinders on and running forward. Like to what end, you - I can relate to that, yeah. - I was gonna say it sounds familiar, Mark. - Yeah, right? - [Rich] Yeah. - And then what have you, what Like the perfect allotment of fucks given. - I think I'm pretty good at life, man. an amazing wife. And I've been in, you We have a healthy relationship. I mean, we have in an intimate partnership with someone right? But we've gone through a lot together. grown alongside each other and we've been each all of whom are like doing great and we're dreams with our support. And they like - Hey. - Like they look, they want, you not in a weird way, in like just the we enjoy their company and they enjoy - That's a big one. - So I feel like that's, you know, of all things, like, that's something I'm super proud of. And that I look forward to doing. And I get excited I get to share it with people who also value it. And I get to choose cool experiences that right amount of fucks that I'm giving about - [Mark] Yeah. - And that doesn't mean on a day-to-day basis, it yes, I can be a workaholic. And I, you know, and where I can improve. But overall, like I I have. And I'm super grateful and proud. like I said at the outset, like aware - Amazing. Thank you, Rich. - Yeah, thanks. This was super fun.