Blippi So much to learn about it will make you want to shout! [SIRENE] Wow, did you see that? Look at what's behind me, Are you ready to learn Yeah! Let's go! [MUSIC] [RADIO TALKING] [SIRENE] Wow! Look at the helicopter! Would you like to learn Come on! [MUSIC] Come down here. This, this is a camera This is where from the helicopter, And then up here, this is where And the landing skids. You can land on the land, Oh, look down here. This, this is the PA system. This is how you communicate Listen! This is how we speak when we are flying in the helicopter. Yeah! And right here, Look, I'll open it up. That's where you store up and the cover for the helicopter. And one of my favorite parts. This is call the night sun. It's basically a spotlight and see what you are looking at. Wow! This is an antenna. This down here is an antenna And, uh, this is an atenna. Wow, this is the name, the number Would you read it with me? N-6-6-8-P-D Would you do that again? N-6-6-8-P-D Great job! come on. Uh, this is the horizontal stabilizer fin. And look, there's a light right there. That light, on the left side is red. And on the right side of the helicopter Come on! Let's go to the other side. [MUSIC] And right here, this is the tail rotor. The tail rotor is what controls From going left. And right. So this is the rear tail rotor. I didn't tell you about the main rotor. [MUSIC] Wow! See up there? That's where the helicopter Helicopters are so cool! [MUSIC] [HORN] Hey! This is the fuel track. In the back here there is a lot of fuel. And she is going to get out and hook [MUSIC] She's putting on gloves. So she puts on gloves touch her bare hands. Oh hey, there's the fuel cap. Uh! It's getting nice and full. [MUSIC] Now that the helicopter is full of fuel We are about to ride We all wore seatbelts and headsets. And they even wore helmets! I'm ready. [MUSIC] What they are doing here is turning on See? See the main rotor spin? Wow, it's spinning so fast! And there we go. We have lift off! [MUSIC] It's downtown LA. We're really high in the sky. Look, we are higher than the buildings! We even flew passed [MUSIC] INAUDIBLE And you can't forget about [MUSIC] Hey Blippi, do you want Yeah! The TFO asked me So without a doubt I said, yeah! [MUSIC] Woo-hoo! We made it to the beach! And look! We are about to pass It was a great time flying There was no crime Wow! Look, now we are I'll tell you what's inside the helicopter. Ok, now that we're all locked in, Ok. One belt around my weist. And two, one two, over my shoulders. Wow, look! It's like a joint stick. This is the cyclic, this is what you use [FUNNY SOUNDS] And the instrument pannel. Wow! Like the altitude, the air speed, The aviation radios, the police radios. Oh hey. Let me unbuckle Look at this. This green, that's where you And this is how you operate it. Look at this controller, it's so neat. It's like a video game. And last but not least, binoculars. These are used for suspects Wow. I can see so far! Wow, hey! That's funny. [HELICOPTER] Up, up, up in the sky There is a super hero that can fly and it's here to keep us safe A police helicopter A police helicopter Oh, oh, oh, oh! And INAUDIBLE rotor goes Got to INAUDIBLE spotlight INAUDIBLE a police helicopter. It's super fast chasing protecting neighborhoods every day and everywhere. A police helicopter A police helicopter Oh, oh, oh, oh! And INAUDIBLE how the rotors go Got to INAUDIBLE spotlight INAUDIBLE A police helicopter. A police helicopter. A police helicopter. A police helicopter. [FUNNY SOUNDS] Police helicopters are used another set of eyes, As well as help capture the suspects and so then all the citizens Blippi, Blippi Come on, everyone, Blippi, Blippi So much to learn about It will make you want to shout! Special thanks to the LAPD for making this video happen. Also, a very sincere thank you to every officer on the ground for kipping the citizens