MICHIO KAKU: Years ago, we physicists predicted power doubles every 18 months. But we also, on the other hand, proposed a quantum computers can take over when silicon In fact, already we see a slowing down of Computer power simply cannot maintain its technology. The two basic problems are heat and leakage. That's the reason why the age of silicon will No one knows when, but as I mentioned we already and in 10 years it could flatten out completely. So what's the problem? The problem is that a Pentium chip today has atoms across. When that layer gets down to about five atoms You have two effects, heat. The heat generated will be so intense that You can literally fry an egg on top of the And second of all, leakage. You don't know where the electron is anymore. The quantum theory takes over. The Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle says meaning it could be outside the wire, outside So there is an ultimate limit set by the laws mechanics, as to how much computing power VERN BROWNELL: I refer to today's computers They compute largely in the same way they Von Neumann and others invented the first And we've had amazing progress over those Think of all the developments there've been over those 60 or 70 years and how much energy And we've achieved marvelous things with that its limits too, and people sometimes ask, These applications, these problems that we're and aren't well-suited for the architecture So I see quantum computing as another set researchers, computer scientists, programmers, to really change the world in a much better computers. BRIAN GREENE: A quantum computer is a device, harness the full capacity of quantum mechanics, computer would be absolutely unable to achieve. One way of thinking about it is this. There's an approach to quantum mechanics where sense, parallel realities moving along in for instance, if I want to measure an electron, it's there and a 50% chance it's over there, Well, one interpretation says, well, there the electron is here and in another universe That's a crazy-sounding idea, but a quantum some calculations over here and other calculations Now, it's doing, in some sense, twice as many in one world would be able to do. Now, imagine taking that idea and spreading by quantum mechanics. Now, you're harnessing all of these different in parallel much faster, much more powerful, would be impossible. LAWRENCE KRAUSS: Let me briefly describe the a regular computer at some level. In a regular computer, you've got ones and you manipulate them. Let's say you have an elementary particle If it's spinning, we say it's spinning, it's it's spinning this way or this way pointing And so I could store the information by having up and some of them spinning down, right? Ones and zeros. But in the quantum world, it turns out that in all directions at the same time, one of We may measure by doing a measurement of an But before we did the measurement, it was and that way all at the same time. Sounds crazy, but true. Now, that means if the electron is spinning if we don't actually measure it, it can be And so a quantum computer is based on manipulating during the calculation, many different calculations only making a measurement at the end of the So we exploit that fact of quantum mechanics time to do many computations at the same time, so powerful. BRAD TEMPLETON: The rules of quantum mechanics to us, and so they don't act like the higher-level So there's a bunch of research to study whether that perform computation in ways that we can't systems that we use. In particular, it seems possible in theory in quantum mechanics, sort of as some people into millions and trillions and billions of take place in all of those parallel universes to you in your universe. There are people who believe that they can of quantum computing to solve some very, very way we solve them there with computers. And when I say much, much faster, so much universe into an ordinary computer like the the quantum computer at solving these problems. MICHIO KAKU: Now, quantum computing in some are enormous problems with quantum computing. The main problem is decoherence. Let's say I have two atoms and they vibrate If I have two atoms that vibrate in unison, and do a calculation, but they have to first Eventually, an airplane goes over; eventually, eventually, somebody coughs, and then all It gets contaminated by disturbances from Once you lose the coherence the computer is LAWRENCE KRAUSS: In order to have a quantum utilize and exploit those weird quantum properties, from all of its environment, because if it mechanical weirdness sort of washes away, You wanna make this microscopic object, you which means isolating it very carefully from outside world, and that's the hard part, is called quantum coherence. VERN BROWNELL: You need to create a very quiet, work in. And ultimately what we're building is a quantum your fingernail in this very exotic environment. So that environment runs at near absolute So absolute zero, as you know, is the lowest so-called zero degrees Kelvin. So these machines run at a very low temperature clean, quiet environment to run in, it doesn't And in fact, it runs down at what's called Absolute zero is zero degrees Kelvin. So this is running at minus 273.14 degrees physics is minus 273.15 degrees C. So very, because we also running in effectively a magnetic So you could consider these environments, that we've built, to be probably the most there's other intelligent life in the universe For instance, outer space is 150 times warmer quantum computations. So you may ask why do we go through all this The answer is the promise of quantum computing for a particular set of problems. And that's very important and exciting to problems ranging from things like developing interactions of cancer and how it attacks looking for patterns and inferences and drawing things like better modeling financial services So these are all kinds of applications that type of computers, and it's not a replacement It will be used in what I would call a hybrid capability that's already been built in the of computing markets working very closely