Following the annual cycle, the crescent moon in February indicates the ideal date for pruning the vines. This operation aims to separate from the plant those shoots that develop excessively to the detriment of the fruit. Normally, on each arm of the vine the vinedresser usually leaves a &quot;thumb&quot; with two buds that will give rise to new shoots. The work of &quot;jarmentar&quot; consists of collecting the cut bundles that remain on the ground, thus facilitating subsequent work. Some of these bundles, which have been left with a small &quot;heel&quot;, are those that will be used in the planting of new vines. Having marked the land in parallel lines at the appropriate distance, the vinedresser proceeds to open the holes, wide and deep, where he introduces the wet shoots. In order for the fajuelos to take root, the vinedresser has kept them wrapped in moist soil for a whole year, to plant them in the waning of February of the following year. Each vine grower has his own criteria in choosing the varieties of vines to plant, the most common in the Aragonese lands being Garnacha, Macabeo, Moristel.... This type of plantation is called fajuelo, which, although it offers its fruit, lasts fewer years. By spring, the two buds left on the outside of the earth will emerge from the vines. With the attack and spread of phylloxera, American feet or &quot;devils&quot; were imported, resistant to the disease. The method of planting vines, called &quot;spike grafting&quot;, is the most common and is carried out in the month of June. When the vines planted the previous year already have branches, the vinedresser leaves the fattest and straightest of all the branches. After opening a slit in the root, he sharpens the graft and inserts it into the cut, tying it with raffia or any plant fiber. The tillage of the vineyard land is of vital importance, so that the water filters more easily and the weeds cease to exist. The vineyard needs three tasks: The first after pruning, the second in April or May, and the third when the fruit is perfectly developed. The first two are deeper than the third, and are done with the plow or &quot;rusar&quot;. &quot;Maigar&quot; is a more individualized job, which consists of chopping with the jada around each of the vines, aerating the soil. The abundance of green leaves and clusters in formation during spring are a special delicacy for sheep cattle. To repel animals from accessing the vines, some shepherds still make a liquid made with dog excrement and water, the application of which they call &quot;perrunar.&quot; So that the vines do not become &quot;foggy&quot; or &quot;ashy&quot;, in the spring the traditional vinedresser protects them by applying sulfur powder to each of the plants. A mixture of copper sulfate, lime and water, applied temporarily from the moment the vine begins to sprout, either with a brush or with the sulfator, protects the vine against mildew. &quot;For Saint Michael, wine and honey&quot; says the saying. Depending on the regions or varieties of the vineyard, the fruits of the vine or grapes ripen in the last days of September and the first half of October. The harvest is indicated by the maturity of the fruit, and is carried out in clear weather, and at times when the fruit does not contain moisture from dew, fog or rain. This activity constitutes an almost festive ritual in which all family members participate, regardless of their age. In addition to the basket, each grape harvester carries a special knife or falceno that allows him to cut the grape clusters, separating as many mangoes and green beans as possible that could give bad flavor and acidity to the wine. Some vine growers left the grapes to dry on top of a reed for two days so that the mangoes would lose moisture. The cuevanos are wicker containers used to transport the grapes in cavalry to the winepress. All containers that will house the must during fermentation and the wine must be perfectly clean and disinfected. Before proceeding to tread the grapes, all surfaces and corners are scrubbed with a broom and water. &quot;Chop the tallow&quot; consists of making a ball with kidney tallow in the shape of a plug to close the exit of the winepress. Once dry, the vinedresser &quot;teases&quot; the &quot;canilla&quot;, that is, places the tallow plug that will retain the wine in the container. You have to make sure that this fits well, especially the walls, so that there are no leaks. And now the stones are placed so that it does not rise. The &quot;faje&quot;, made with a broom and held with two stones, serves as a filter that will prevent the breezes from passing through or blinding the &quot;canilla&quot;. Cleaning the barrels is done by washing the inside several times with a broom and hot water, until the water comes out clean. Now, if the barrel has had crushed wine, it is cleaned with water and soda. Some exterior windows on the mountainside that facilitate ventilation and air renewal inside the wineries reveal its presence. The treads, numbered so that they always fit the same, are a set of boards where the grapes are treaded. Due to the uniform temperature and humidity, the winery, located in an underground cavity under the house or on the side of a mountain, is the appropriate place to carry out the winemaking process. Popping the grains without breaking the seed, treading is a necessary operation to obtain the must, and put it in contact with the germs that make it ferment or cook. So that the must does not spoil, the winepress must be &quot;refreshed&quot; every day by treading new clusters. Therefore, to prevent bad weather that would prevent harvesting, the vinedresser saves bunches of grapes from the previous day. One of the most exquisite desserts is made precisely with the must separated from the breezes before fermenting. After a long boil over the fire, which reduces its volume to a quarter, and mixing the resulting broth with flour, some families obtain the sweet and tasty &quot;mostillo&quot; wine. To prepare &quot;claret&quot; wine, the must obtained is introduced directly into the vats, where a microscopic fungus or yeast develops. Fermentation begins at this moment , breaking down the glucose that the must contains, and which is revealed by the release of bubbles, boiling noise and increase in temperature. The coloring matter of the grapes resides in the breeze. To make &quot;red&quot; wine, the breeze and the seed remain mixed with the must inside the vat during the tumultuous fermentation process. One way to check the existence of &quot;smell&quot; is by introducing a flame that reveals the lack of oxygen inside. The large amount of carbon dioxide or &quot;tuff&quot;, released during the 8 or 10 days that the process lasts, makes entry into the winery very dangerous and even fatal. To access the winepress and remove the breezes, it is necessary to previously extract the &quot;stench&quot;, airing the interior with a blanket. The breezes from the grapes, which are fermenting with the must, have a tendency to rise to the surface of the liquid, forming a layer called &quot;hat&quot;. To avoid continuous contact of this layer with the air, which would turn the wine into vinegar, the breezes must be stirred daily by mixing them with the broth. Little by little the tumultuous fermentation of the must ceases . The liquid stops boiling, calms down and cools, losing its original sugary taste. &quot;Piercing the winepress&quot; is called this very important moment in which the quality of the product is checked, removing the tallow plug. When the winepress is punctured, the process cannot be stopped, which forces the wine to be transferred very quickly from the laco or stone container to the already prepared barrels. Crushed or crushed grapes still retain a certain amount of juice in their pulp, which is extracted during pressing. &quot;Stopping&quot; the press consists of filling the inside of the &quot;lantern&quot; with a breeze, caking it with a wooden foot. With a shaft or &quot;rudder&quot;, and through a &quot;three-point head&quot; system, modern manual spindle presses allow more pressure to be applied to the pasta with less effort. The wine obtained from the pressed breeze is of inferior quality than the wine in unpressed flower, and therefore, it is kept in a different barrel. Presses made of wood and called &quot;corner&quot; presses that are still in operation are few and rare. Like the iron press, the corner press is made up of the plate, the lantern, the shaft, the head, the wooden noisemakers or studs and the bar. Unlike the former, this requires greater human effort. An element for transporting the wine from the press to the barrel was the boto made with a whole choto or lamb skin. This type of container was one of those used by vintners who took wine up the mountain to sell it or exchange it for other products. Once the wine is stored in the barrel, it is sealed with a layer of mixed ash. The act of opening the press is called &quot;unstopping.&quot; The pressed block of breeze is so hard and is so dry that, to separate it, it is necessary to use the jada. This breeze, mixed with salt, constitutes a delicious delicacy for the cattle, which is given in doses since they are in danger of having their &quot;guts swell.&quot; For reasons of work in the field, many times the fermented breeze cannot be pressed at the desired time, which requires its conservation for one or two months. &quot;Echar la capa&quot; or &quot;emburar&quot; consists of applying a thin coating of mud on the surface of the breeze, which protects the wine by preventing mosquitoes from making it sour or vinegary. When the layer of clay dries and cracks, the vintner adds a layer of ash to cover the pores and openings. The disinfection of the vats that will house the wine once the winepress has been punctured is done by fumigating their interior with burning sulfur tablets. Before removing the wine, the layer of mud that had preserved the fermented broth is patiently removed . A new and slow boiling in the vats will enrich the flavor and quality of the wine. There are still some families that take advantage of the crushed wine to make anise. Cinnamon stick, licorice, raisins, orange peel, dried apricots, fennel, tremoncillo and anise grain are the necessary ingredients along with the wine, which, placed in the &quot;pot&quot; or alembic, are converted by distillation into anise. . The &quot;first luck&quot; is called the first quantity of anise that is obtained, after boiling and subsequent liquefaction of the alcohol. This system of using crushed wine allows us to recover around a quarter of the volume of the wine, in anise. Compared to the traditional production of wine at the family level for personal consumption, today there is the sophisticated and careful production of high-quality wines of different varieties, which satisfy the demands of the most sensitive palates. Despite the setback suffered in recent years, with the replacement of family vineyards for the use of the land in cereal exploitation, today, some families still maintain their small vineyard, which allows them to collect enough fruit to make wine for the traditional methods. I am Eugenio Monesma, director and producer of the documentary you just watched. If you liked it, I encourage you to subscribe to the channel by activating notifications from the bell and so you can enjoy the hundreds of documentaries that I already have on the channel and which I will be uploading weekly.