In this video I'm gonna take you through get into cybersecurity. If you're new to the field or looking for info out there that it's hard to even get You might hear people talk about an alphabet here to tell you: THEY'RE NOT THAT IMPORTANT. While there's some value going through the are your SKILLS and EXPERIENCE. Because in this field, what you can DO will you KNOW. Solving technical problems is THE way to earning the trust and confidence from people you work with. Buckle up and let's dive right in. Number 1: Building and using virtual machines. Virtual machines, also called VMs, are operating "host" OS. The virtualized OS is commonly referred to called a "hypervisor". The hypervisor lets you manage and allocate on your guest. Popular hypervisors you may have heard of Oracle, VMware, and KVM. Often times when you hear the term "cloud" on specialized hypervisors on someone else's Virtual machines let you become platform-agnostic, particular operating system and tools available Many people spend all their time just on one Let me tell you: IT DOESN'T MATTER. As a pro you should be versed in ALL of them This maximizes the scope of your skills and Virtual machines also give you the flexibility without affecting your main driver. You can quickly take snapshots of a guest Opening a suspect file you received? Use a VM. Want to practice configuring a server? Use a VM. Slinging exploits at a target? Use a VM. Moving on to... Number 2: LEARN the command line. Don't run away but EMBRACE it. The command line interface, commonly referred the most efficient way to interact with an For example, if I'm looking for an entry Running a lightweight shell command gets me Why's it called a shell? The important parts of an OS that actually it functions at the center of the system. The part that's exposed to a user is called It's just like a car, where the steering over the engine or transmission all exist The command line gives you the lowest level with an operating system. Many of the most useful tools don't have Mastering the command line expands your arsenal It lets you be able to use scripting and automation waste lots of time. Automating your workflow by learning the command to the team. I recommend starting out with Bash, or the with almost every Linux distribution. macOS used it in its Terminal app, but has has some nicer features. If Bash is like a Toyota, then Zsh is more Bash is so popular and effective that Microsoft Linux, or "WSL" and lets you install several app. This is super convenient, since I can access to a virtual machine. Now understand that Powershell is actually It's very different from how you would use of powerful Windows administration abilities. If you work in an environment where Windows as well. I'm gonna start a series on the Linux command Comment below to let me know what tools and Number 3: System Administration. All of us with a computer or smartphone, from at some level. It all depends on what level you're at. System administration involves the configuring device or hi-powered server. When I was first using computers as a kid, available on the computer, just to see what Reading manuals, online guides, and playing By doing that, I became the family IT help System administration is about knowing your to be able to help others who don't. Whatever your skill, I challenge you to fiddle Delete some files, and try to recover them. Download, open, and monitor old viruses in Sysinternals to see what they do. Try to extract files and passwords off a computer Whatever it is, push the limits of what you following along. Practice a little more each day and you'll Next up... Number 4: Computer Networking. THIS is the heart and soul of it all, what physics". It's understanding how devices interact A to point B. A strong foundation in networking you're red teaming, defending, or running There's two conceptual models that govern They group all your different networking and TCP/IP is older and uses four layers: network layers. OSI stands for the Open System Interconnection, for Standardization, or ISO. These guys define everything from country OSI is newer and uses seven layers: physical, application layers. All these layers are just a way to describe So if you're receiving a package from someone between envelopes, boxes, vehicles and planes, operating procedures. When the post office tells you there's an transportation system that's delaying your Likewise, the networking layers all have different let you stream videos from a server in a rack Knowing what's happening at each layer lets skilled at your craft. Number 5: Personal digital security. This is an area I've been particularly passionate and organizations. The cybercrime industry is booming. You don't have to scroll far to see As technology becomes more intertwined with refrigerators, the vulnerabilities and attack If you want to go deep into cybersecurity, yourself. From passwords, encryption, to secure comms, and best practices. You might just be the subject-matter expert And that advice might just protect your company But most importantly is living it out yourself You wouldn't believe the number of times the security operations or IT department simply basic digital hygiene.So that's it for this forget to subscribe for more content just please let me know. See you soon!