- Way in the back of the Bible where the pages are There are two books that and that really do deserve more attention. They are the books of Ezra and Nehemiah. Ezra and Nehemiah were born that had been forcibly exiled from Judea and relocated to Babylon after the destruction of the first temple. They lived in what was known around the year 450 BCE. They both returned to Nehemiah came to rebuild the And Ezra came to rebuild the Jewish soul. Before we can even get into we should do a little background. After the exile, the went into lockdown and isolated itself in order to preserve its identity and to keep its members from assimilating. Laws against intermarriage, which had been at times ignored in Judea were now being strictly Judaism in Babylonia maintained itself with its sacred books and it's For 50 years the Jewish to leave Babylonia. And then a miracle happened. A Persian King named Cyrus took control of the Babylonian throne. The Babylonian empire collapsed and the Persian empire now began. And here is where the book of Ezra starts, in 538 BCE, the new King The Jews are free to go back to Judea. King Cyrus returns alluded to the Jewish community this new second temple's construction. Now, before you think let's keep in mind what By allowing the Jews and practice their religion in Judea, Cyrus gains their unconditional loyalty, especially since he will and controlling the money. It gives them a foothold in the area without having to move The idea moving back to Judea electrifies the community of exiles. While many in the Jewish have grown comfortable 42,000 exiles leave a for 50 years and returned to a land that was then called &quot;Yehud Medinata&quot;, Aramaic for the state of Judah, Aramaic being the international This return was in a sense a precursor to the Zionist movement some 2,500 years later. When the 42,000 arrive in Jerusalem, they find an abandoned burnt down city whose walls are breached and collapsing. They get to work. It takes two years just for the foundation of the next temple to be completed. The community gathers The elderly who knew Solomon's temple, weep with mixed emotion. Temple construction And then as luck would have A municipal governor, known as Samaritans, used this opportunity to try and get the project stopped. According to Ezra, the who had moved in and filled the vacuum left by the Jewish exile. They were practicing a and they had a temple of their own. They tell new King of Persia &quot;A rebellious city, harmful If this city is rebuilt you will no longer have any portion in the province of Judea.&quot; The king gets the message, all work building the A generation passes, another guy, King Darius I takes the throne. The Jewish community before even getting permission. Again, the Samaritans to stop the project. The new king checks the archives and he discovers that, commissioned and paid for the rebuilding of a new Jewish temple. Darius I green lights the project and orders the tax treasury in Samaria to pay for the rest of the construction. Work now begins in earnest. In 516 BCE, 70 years and 23 years after the start the temple is completed. It's made of hewn stone from the kings forests. The Israelites, the priests and all the returning exiles A sacrificial party We have officially entered You might've noticed at this point that even though we're talking Ezra has yet to show up. To meet him, we need to So 50 years after the the next king of Persia, King Artaxerxes, asks a man known as Ezra, to quote, &quot;Regulate Judah and Jerusalem according to the laws of your God.&quot; The new community in Judea is And Ezra, a great scholar and a priest in the is sent by the King to and to create the local judicial system. He will be the new In essence, the first chief After his long journey, many in the Jewish community have intermarried. This news is extremely traumatic to Ezra. He tears his clothes, he Ezra comes up with a desperate solution. He orders all the Jewish men to divorce their non-Jewish and their children from the community. Ezra was deeply concerned were violating divine law and and vanish into history. What's more, the Persian that God had destroyed the first temple for the sins of the people. We just finished building Ezra doesn't want this Ezra's book abruptly ends Ezra will show up again Nehemiah at the opening to the same King Artaxerxes. That means he's the King which is a title of One day, Nehemiah was visiting the palace and learns are in really bad shape. He also learns that the walls of Jerusalem are still breached and that the city is vulnerable to attack. He asked the king of could be made governor and protect his people. King Artaxerxes allows it. And he sends Nehemiah to the keeper of the Kings park, the keeper's to supply Nehemiah with all the lumber he might need for any project he deems necessary. When Nehemiah gets to Jerusalem. He sees that the stories are true. Sure, the temple has been rebuilt but the walls are still breached and the gates are still destroyed from the Babylonian A volunteer workforce is assembled. They're motivated to say the least, the breaches to the are all repaired in 52 days. With the city secured, Nehemiah now addresses The scourge of debt. There's a rich upper class The majority of the and indebted to the wealthy. People have sold their fields and have even sold themselves into bondage all in hope of gaining relief, Nehemiah gathers the community together. In this assembly, the poor He publicly shames the who indebted their brethren. &quot;The Jews had been brought in Persia at great &quot;It was not so they could now in Judea.&quot; One after another and Nehemiah step forward, forgive the debts owed them and return the people's land to them. This is in effect the of this new Jewish community. This is where Ezra shows the two work together. Ezra reads the Torah of to the entire community, men while priests translate and explain. There was not yet a custom of regular public readings of the Torah. And the people are completely overwhelmed. They weep hearing the words of God. Ezra, Nehemiah and the priest tell them, &quot;This is the day of celebration. There's no need to be sad.&quot; 24 days later, Ezra again And again, reads the Torah to them. The community leaders are to follow the teachings of They vowed not to intermarry, they vowed to let the land life fallow and to forgive all They vowed to pay a tithe, as a tax to the temple, with food and sacrifices They vowed not to buy goods Nehemiah continues his work, though Jerusalem's walls are rebuilt, the city inside is still mostly ruined. Most Jews opt to live Nehemiah has the people draw lots and he forcibly moves one back into the city. And then he comes across the same problem that Ezra had been struggling with. The community continues to intermarry and now their children don't Nehemiah resorts to flogging the men who have non-Jewish wives. Nehemiah ends his book He says, &quot;I purified the and reestablished the temple service.&quot; He's essentially saying to God, Thus ends the second to For his part, Ezra and important elements to Judaism. His gatherings of the community established the practice of every Monday and Thursday morning, as well as every Sabbath afternoon. Later the rabbis of the Talmud added a reading to the Ezra is also credited with convening the first great assembly. A deliberative body of that later became the Jewish Supreme Court of the second temple period. He's also credited with as well as the books of The framework of the known in Hebrew as the Tanakh, starts with the creation of the world and ends with the building Unfortunately, for later generations, the policies of the Roman empire and the Jewish response to them, would lead to the destruction which stood as the center of for 580 years. If you like this video, make sure to subscribe to our channel and turn on the notifications. So you'll know when we upload new videos.