Today we've teamed up with Nike to see if Colin Tommy messes up juggling a soccer ball. Good Alright Tommy, start juggling. He cannot Oh my goodness! Let's go guys, Oh I like it Colin. Good That shot hit the bottom of the crossbar so it Oh you hit the bottom again! Come on dude! [Music] I like it! Over Dude! Uh-oh there's a it under the court. Owen, don't mess This is the one! [Music] I called it! He got one much or I might mess up! Tommy, we have made a tennis racket and one of you gets a soccer ball. and get it stuck in the tennis racket. Guys, that They said that went right through the racket. Noooo! No I thought that was! Guys, we've got eight Oh man, the first close one! Guys, you gotta go quick! Did that go through it? That went right through it! Guys, there's a fly - a little fly was nat! No I see it again - it's a little nat No they basically had it! Guys, believe it or not - this shot has been Oh my goodness! For shot number three, they it flip up into this cup. Let's see a really tough one! Oh my goodness. This is way my. My hands are sweating, let's hope they Oh oh no no no it's falling. Colin caught it, that was so Oh Ohhhh Get it in! Oh my goodness! Get it! Oh I like it! Nooo! Come on, get in the cup! Colin, you could have have broken it! [Music] There Noooo, I hope it - wait - maybe it can still go back on! No way, Owen how many times [Music] Yeah!! He did it finally! Let's go Owen, it's in the cup!! Tommy, how are you feeling? I'm feeling super ready trick shot! I'm kind of impressed he's been At shot number four. Matthew, I have to ask you to Shot number four, we can't even stack four dice on the soccer ball. [Music] Oh boy, this is gonna be really Oh he might have gotten it! He did it - there you go! Look at My shoulders are getting sore and my back so number five, they have to kick a bullseye on from the grass. Remember, you can pick me to do Oh my goodness, it bounced up and almost made it! Whoa! All right Colin, what have you decided? the cameraman try this shot! It is finally appearance. If I hit the board at all, you Woah! [Music] No way look at this it is. It is not touching! It is so close! We're going to try it this way really quick. Yeah, we'll Today has not been our lucky day, I'll tell you that! But luckily Tommy's having an Oh come on, it's so close! How?! Oh wait wait wait wait wait There you go! That has to be it! Let's go - we finally got the bullseye! That was My work is finally done for this video. Now it's they got it! Let's go!! For shot number six, they're they have to hit each other while they're still Oh oh my goodness! That was the craziest! I tried to wipe a bug off of my neck! How close to think in my head I could not let this fall or timing shot. Ohh they got it! [Music] We are moving onto shot number seven now! I'm is I might not be able to go until they score all shot we have this balloon that's been up there Oh did I hit the balloon? It didn't pop!? [Music] They're getting all around it! still going! They're going fast! Owen is are now three shots left. We are on the We're now on number eight and we're combining football down a spinning football before it stops Second try! Are you kidding me? Owen is a legend gonna do a bonus shot and do it again. Sorry A like and subscribe! We did it twice, so you guys now! Two more! I am tired guys! My back hurts and shot number nine, we're using a linesman flag which put it on top of this backboard and they're gonna How are you feeling? Proud of you! Don't mess up, to score! I can do it! Do not mess up Tommy. other than like the world stage in Australia. Yeah [Music] Get it oh! I believe in my brothers! [Music] Get it! [Music] Noooo! He got it! Colin, nice job! We're I'm so excited I might mess up! Patience it's all the last shot. You have to stack a pyramid of cups ball for the win. And then Tommy can finally stop go down below and hit the like button. Tommy has doing these trick shots and it's finally time to four at the bottom. [Music] One more. There it is! I get so nervous when it's like towards the end?! have to do is knock it down. Tommy is juggling in Ohhh! First shot! Tommy is still juggling! Wait I don't know how to stop!? I shoot oh oh! Good job Colin and Owen and amazing down and you definitely didn't let me down and if you put your mind to it so go outside and challenge