Welcome to another installment of the full-length Today, we explore a pivotal moment in medieval of religion, politics, and military strategy, ambition. Join us as we explore the First Crusade, a In the 11th century, the lands of the Eastern interests. Kings and generals from Western Europe set three major Abrahamic religions. But this was no ordinary military campaign; that would test the leadership and resolve all sides. In this episode, we will analyze the intricate spearheaded the Crusade, the main battles, for control over the holy land, but also various and myths. Let's delve in our retelling of the First The journeys we need to make generally are because we can straight up drive, and you present for you: our friends at Ridge have sponsored this video Hennessey for their twenty twenty three summer enters you into a draw to win a custom Hennessey you can take seventy five thousand dollars. Firstly enter without spending a dollar on then you also get another entry for every load of bonus entries if you buy custom hennessey With this big prize on table, now is the best Ridge wallet, in your choice of colours, with cash. Or ditch your messy keyrings and upgrade to Both are made of such high quality materials and free returns with full refunds within out. Let's make it even better: use our link to get 10% off your purchase, and you get free. The reign of Basil II was the pinnacle of of the Macedonian dynasty was a true warrior, who managed to endure civil war, defeats, including the Fatimids, Georgia, Khazars and 1018. When he was not campaigning, Basil wrote laws, the Kievan Rus under the condition that they The man who would later be nicknamed the Bulgar leave behind a vast treasury for his successors, memory. The first of these would be Constantine VIII, being in his late sixties, he spent most of Factionalism and court intrigues during his While he was on his deathbed he attempted commander and loyal duke of Antioch Constantine, the royal advisers changed the selection to to control, which was the sign that the Empire to merit and good leadership. Romanos took the throne in 1028 and was eager his own client state of Aleppo in July, but of his men died of heat, thirst, and dysentery. Meanwhile, Empress Zoe was hatching her own her desperation to get pregnant at the age charms, amulets and potions to no avail. In 1034 Zoe had her husband drowned in the Michael on the very same day. The new emperor Michael IV was scared of Zoe her confined to her chambers, while doing His rule saw significant improvements in the over the Bulgarians, who started a major revolt, be attributed to him. On the administrative side, there was John the famous Viking Harald Hadrada was the man earning himself the nickname the Bulgar Burner. Meanwhile, the Emperor became ill and began them and find a cure, as countless generals in the first place. Michael IV died from a natural death at the Michael V, marking the first time in half an old monarch. However, the tradition of being ruled by an immediately arrested Harald Hadrada, banished Empress Zoe, sparking a major revolt in the sisters Zoe and Theodora as Empresses, while ending his four-month-long reign. The sisters now ruled the Empire, but before scheme against each other, until Zoe decided Many candidates and former lovers were reviewed, Monomachos and if the constant coronation More importantly, the tradition of handing to earn the loyalty of the followers exhausted Shortly after their wedding Constantine IX her to the status of Empress, convincing Zoe woman, leading to a convoluted situation where three Empresses, who were about to face a The Byzantine holdings in Italy were crumbling was conquered, but it no longer served as allowed the Pechenegs to cross the Danube a huge invasion in 1043, which was stopped Despite all of these enemies and two major expand, annexing the Armenian kingdom of Ani, for a good buffer state against the avalanche Nomadic military traditions met Sunni Islam of jihad unleashed itself on the Islamic world, some, the undeniable military prowess of the East. They have now turned their gaze on the Orthodox Constantine's reign ended in 1055 with another on the Empire, the East-West Schism. The throne passed to the only surviving member to centralise the power, while the court engaged Her death a year later would bring an end Naturally, civil war ensued and after it, year each until Constantine X Doukas got his The court was purged, gifts and titles were Meanwhile, the enemies of the Empire were In particular, the Seljuks themselves just of the Empire Tughril died and was succeeded The nomads derived their legitimacy from military himself by leading an expedition against the cities in the world at the time. Despite its riches and dense population, its budget and when the Seljuks arrived they found subjecting it to a brutal sack in 1064. The last time the Eastern Romans suffered in 838 when Amorium was sacked by the Abbasids. Yet Constantinople's only response was not to prosecute members of the Armenian clergy, they were losing. This complete lack of interest in the eastern of the professional army, decreased army salaries, on mercenaries. Yet it was once again the final act written in the eight-year-long reign of Constantine Desperate to keep his dynasty in charge, the an oath in front of all court officials that as regent until their son could assume the At this point in time, a massive Seljuk raid and the important city of Caesarea was sacked, duke of Serdica Romanos that quickly made Knowing how fragile her position was and unlike keeping the nomadic raiders at bay, she turned an offer. The man was to marry her and defend the Empire This was a wise choice, considering the many themselves most notably Constantine's brother past would defeat their foes only to gain Romanos accepted the offer and now owed his He wasted no time in preparing against one Decades of decay and lack of funds had turned and undisciplined mercenaries, which the new force. In 1068 news spread of the plunder of Neocaesarea, chased the Seljuks for eight days until eventually and slaves they carried. The cargo was abandoned and the Seljuks rushed Next, he regrouped with the main army to take wisely avoiding the summer heat, before hearing His first campaign had mixed results, but had a leader who fought alongside them, while on his failures to protect the Roman citizens. The following year another distraction was Robert Crispin, leading a contingent of Frankish tax collectors in Edessa. He was captured and exiled to the island of against the Seljuks. A large army went on to secure Akhlat on lake was ordered to guard the border. That force was overwhelmed and the Seljuks Romanos to give chase and pick up the abandoned The frustration was building up as traditional armed cavalry force. The Byzantine army was expensive to upkeep the court was plotting, forcing Romanos to duties. Because of that, the campaign season of 1070 the former emperor Issac and elder brother on the loss of Italy and monetary reforms Public events were restricted, the currency court salaries decreased, which hurt his image, to raise a significant army, which was needed and captured by a Seljuk general who used However while the noble was held hostage, and escort Komnenos back to the capital. The combination of active leadership in the who also happened to be the sultan's brother-in-law, Alp Arslan was more interested in his war Shiism too heretical to suffer, but he could sultan personally led a campaign at the strategic taking the cities of Manzikert and Ahlat, and attacking Edessa. The countryside was plundered, and the city but overall Alp Arslan got what he came for real foes in the south, first stopping by The emir of the vassal city was ordered to which led to the siege of the city in April Deciding to use this to his advantage, Romanos lake Van in an attempt to retake what was His army included the professional Byzantine Turks, Armenians, and Normans for a total Every man was ordered to bring enough provisions of the army and mountainous region was critical. The host reached lake Van in August, where parts in order to cover more ground, ease both Manzikert and Ahlat, which were a day's Upon hearing news of this movement, Alp Arslan the lake with incredible speed, even losing Romanos and his advisers considered this to would need time to gather new recruits from was able to surprise the secondary contingent The Byzantine force panicked and withdrew The Seljuks numbered no more than 20000 and force with their mere presence. On the next day, August 25, 1071, the Emperor aware of the Seljuk presence and was baffled He immediately sent out one of his commanders a scouting party. The commander engaged the enemy, but after he withdrew and reported back to Romanos with More troops were sent, but Alp Arslan once casualties and captured a small squadron of Romanos knew that after his reforms and all to prove himself and eliminate the eastern Alp Arslan, but by that time the nomads retreated The real battle would have to wait so the outside Manzikert. Later that evening the Seljuks launched a new moon and harassed whoever was outside An eyewitness account reports: "For who its sword and pointed it at us?" At dawn, another raid was launched but was Shortly afterwards, two messengers arrived defected and joined the sultan and that Alp The peace talks went on for some time, but any kind of deal, he would be facing a rebellion the talks and signalled for his men to form Romanos took the center with the cavalry and up the left wing, while the right wing was rear was commanded by Andronikos Doukas, the family which despised Romanos. His presence on the campaign was an attempt that his father would not start an uprising The Seljuks deployed their units in a crescent Arslan leading the center. Romanos, who was an experienced commander enemy under constant arrow fire as they withdrew. Smaller engagements were fought, but eventually, pushed back and the sultan's camp was captured. Romanos quickly realized that his army was didn't reform the line in time, the enemy veil of darkness, so he ordered the imperial to withdraw. The fatigued, disorganized, and distant wings it as a signal that Romanos had fallen. Gaps began to open and the reserve Seljuk them and surround the Roman forces who had and were struggling to organise a withdraw. Seeing this the rest of the Seljuk forces before both wings collapsed and began to flee, The standard was once again reversed in an was too late, the only hope left lay in the who could prevent total disaster, as most merely retreated. It was in that crucial moment, when Andronikos his men to Constantinople, spreading the word he passed along the way. Back in the camp, the non-combatants were an earthquake, with howling, grief, sudden Turks riding all around". As darkness set in, Romanos who had fought his camp was ransacked, most escaped as the the enemy on the mountain roads. And so the young Seljuk Empire matched the far from the last time it occurred in Edessa humiliating his captive, Alp Arslan treated A famous exchange reported by chroniclers asked how he would have been treated if he he would be killed in a cruel manner. The sultan instead offered to return Romanos of a Seljuk noble, with an escort and any A peace treaty was signed, but we will never next, for it was the release of a presumed the Empire. Back in Constantinople the nobles immediately leader and deposed him, quickly replacing mother Eudocia. They were well aware that Romanos still commanded their own army to defeat him by exploiting empty. The Norman mercenary Robert was taken out met Romanos in battle and defeated him, at The civil war was brief and ended with the for mercy while he was blinded. The infection quickly set in and Romanos died Romanos' stepson Michael VII now sat on noble families were competing for power and The young emperor would eventually earn the for the debasement of the currency solidus remainder being made up of silver and copper. This meant that the buying power of the currency and when Michael raised the taxes there was In general, the sources claim that the 21-year-old courtiers at different periods, and was only Bulgarian rebels supported by Serbia raised took Skopje and defeated the strategos of Nish and Ohrid quickly fell, before the Empire The rebels were crushed at Kastoria, but it dealt with. Not only did this cost the empire crucial a full-scale counter-attack to the east, as tagmata was busy in the Balkans. The compromise was to send a smaller force with his younger brother Alexios, leading earlier. Accompanying them was a cavalry force of 400 Roussel de Bailleul, who was present at Manzikert. By this point, the Seljuks had already broken plateau unopposed, but the coastline was secure region was far from being lost and this expeditionary the nomads. The imperial army assembled in the area of wedge between the Byzantines and their mercenaries. After Isaac punished a Frankish soldier, the during the night. Upon hearing this news, the Byzantine commander but that was when he was informed that a Seljuk The two armies met near Cappadocia and after while Alexios barely escaped. Some of the fleeting soldiers were rejected Seljuks were close behind. Meanwhile, Roussel managed to defeat a different where he proclaimed himself a prince and founded The news shocked the emperor who responded force to deal with the adventurer. Of the 12000 strong army, many were fresh as well as 1500 Varangians and 500 Franks. Once Roussel learned that the army crossed most of whom were knights. The two armies met on 10th May 1074 on the Amorium, which was the Norman powerbase. The Romans offered amnesty to the adventurer, That is when, rather than waiting for reinforcements John Doukas ordered his men to charge across The Byzantines were now in a very precarious the Norman army in front. The three divisions were arranged in two lines John held the center with his Varangians, governor of the Anatolic theme Nikephoros of the levies. In the early hours of the next day, Roussel the men, urging them to defect, which they Together the two groups pushed against the As the battle raged on between the most elite panicked and ordered a retreat, taking half Seeing this, many began to surrender or retreat John Doukas was captured alongside his son as three years ago he was in charge of the A new army was quickly gathered under the shortly after crossing to release his family, led to nothing but debt. Roussel decided to make another gamble by new emperor. This was the pivotal moment when desperation evil. After losing his bid for the Seljuk throne brothers fled to the Taurus mountains back multiple punitive raids. Now that Melikshah I ruled the Seljuk empire, himself in the region, which had the exact was detached from the authority of Isfahan. The nomads raided, but also traded with the off from Constantinople, when suddenly Suleiman him an ally of the empire, but also formalize - all he had to do was deal with Roussel who The Norman finally met his match as he fell by the Seljuks, but before Constantinople with a generous amount of gold, and the Seljuks Desperation really kicked in and Michael used to convince tsar George II to hold the eastern Theodosiopolis, Tau, and Kars. The crucial cities and forts were handed over, the Norman cause. All seemed lost, but the Byzantines were well rebellions would erupt elsewhere proclaiming The next candidate to step up to the job was and charismatic man who was appointed commander-in-chief any significant funds or army. Unrelenting, the young man used his cunning riches if they would capture the prince. The nomads agreed and once again accomplished a feast and betraying him. Roussel was brought to the city of Amasya, have the funds he promised, so he turned to Surprisingly the locals preferred the Norman unlike the empire, protected them from the In order to convince them, Alexios blindfolded and was in no condition to defend them anymore. This plan worked and after gathering the funds Constantinople victorious and locked him in This is a good point to shift to the other tensions between Pope Gregory VII and Holy now known as the Investiture Controversy. The boundaries between Imperial and Papal was an overly ambitious and influential Pope for the clergy, and preached the idea of an On one occasion he wanted to lead an expedition Roman Empire in retaking their lost lands church, before that force retook the Holy While these ideas sound familiar now, back that much power or even lead his own army. Already the seed of the future events was Byzantine leadership asking for aid from the the papacy. Agents were sent throughout Europe exaggerating harassing innocent pilgrims, despite the fact Holy Lands thousands of pilgrims made their Initially, the preferred route was to go to sail for two weeks, but over time the difficult and became less used than the land route. One could travel to Constantinople by land hospitality in this medieval version of tourism, made worse. But the stars were not yet aligned for one occur, it would take a different Pope and ideas to coalesce. Back in Byzantium, the idea of handing out upon, with the alliance with Hungary and the In fact, Robert Guiscard was paid a large upon his followers, each acting as an annual to the son of the emperor. The idea behind this expensive endeavor was as well as buy time for the state to recover. All of this money had to come from somewhere the grain trade. Until this moment, farmers sold their produce populace at a competitive price, but in these The solution was to concentrate the entire the price would be the same and each transaction The immediate aftermath of this policy saw create a shortage, which would then raise The overcrowded city of Constantinople, filled now given to the Seljuk allies, began to starve Emperor Michael managed to quell it, but the led to the civil war. Usually, civil wars involved two sides, however, rebellions each with its own goal. First, there was Philaretos Brachamios who around Antioch after the Battle of Manzikert. He proclaimed himself emperor, and slowly cities. Secondly, a federation of cities on the Danube Pechenegs. In November 1077 the most powerful man in Nikephoros Bryennios also proclaimed himself filled with veteran soldiers as he himself Lastly, we have Nikephoros Botaneiates, the with very few supporters or credentials who Bryennios took action and after taking over Constantinople, hoping the people would embrace suburbs. Pecheneg riders also rode south hoping to to pull back. In the meantime, Botaneiates was well aware so he pushed the next domino in our story After he took Nicea he stationed many of them key cities like Pergamon, Ephesus, and Sardis, on their own, with the assumption that the follow his command. Back in Constantinople, the aristocracy knew based on merit, but on how easy it would be The city rebelled forcing Michael to abdicate, which he did as Nikephoros III. The new emperor made a deal with the wife for the recognition of her child Constantin Nikephoros III then proceeded to hand out down by forgiving all debt and expanding various One of those titles was that of Caesar or but was rejected. Brachamios on the other hand agreed to accept his territory stretching between the key cities However, rebellions didn't die out and Bryennios forcing Nikephoros III to appoint Alexios It was 1078 and Alexios marched west an army were Seljuk cavalry, 2000 Chomatenoi or elite a newly raised regiment of Athantoi or Immortals levies. The rebel army was not only more numerous: of Tagmata, Slavic, Pecheneg, and Frankish commander. Alexios made camp on a shore of a small stream fortify his camp as a sign of strength. He quickly sent out Seljuk scouts, learning but some of the scouts got captured and that Bryennios knew that he had his opponent outnumbered, Alexios was on the defense and held the left up of Franks while the right under the command Chomatenoi and Seljuks. The Turks made up an extreme right wing ready smaller detachment on the far left positioned Bryennios had deployed his army in three divisions his far left. The right wing consisted of a 5000-strong cavalry under his brother John. His left was made up of 4000 troops from Thrace center. As the rebels approached, the ace Alexios John was caught between Immortals led by Alexios towards the battle with war cries. The rebels panicked, but after cutting down men, halting their route and urging them back Despite his best efforts, Alexios, who was sword, saw his men break and flee as they Meanwhile, on his right, the Pechenegs managed the right wing. In the center, Nikephoros persuaded the franks to him in the middle of the battle. All seemed lost, so Alexios gathered six of line, hoping to kill the usurper and end the It was aided by the sudden decision of the the camp of their allies. They took as much loot as they could while rear guard. Part of the Bryennios' army was celebrating, this atmosphere of utter confusion that Alexios both swords of state to its side. He immediately rushed in, killed some retainers, Once he arrived, he found the remnants of spirits, spreading the rumour that the enemy At that very moment, an extra contingent of camp, just in time for the counter-attack unsuspecting enemy. The reformed army was once again divided in while the third, a mix of Seljuks and Immortals difficult feigned retreat. Multiple small groups of nomads fired their next the heavy cavalry charged in. One of the riders spotted Bryennios and, according at Bryennios, and thrust his spear with great Bryennios for his part whipped out his sword could be driven home, he cut it in two, and bringing down the blow with the whole power breastplate included". After a while Alexios ordered the retreat, veterans gave chase. Again, according to the Alexiad, "Forthwith, them like swarms of wasps, from various directions, and incessant shooting, not only filled the but also utterly obscured their sight by showering The bold plan had worked and before long the best efforts the day belonged to Alexios Komnenos. Bryennios was blinded, but pardoned and allowed As for the victorious general, he was not was sent out against a new pretender Nikephoros many of the remaining rebels. But one night attack later and this rebellion It was now 1080 and the gold content of the rose up in rebellion, this time it was Melissenos By that point, Suleiman received the title In return for Suleiman's support, Melissenos the hands of the Sultanate of Rum, once again Alexios was ordered to deal with the man who time he refused. No action was taken against him, since news preparing to launch a massive invasion, after to him to take back his throne and Alexios And it was right around this time when the break the agreement he made with Maria and the Komnenoi family, which joined the rebels. In April 1081 a band of German mercenaries to Alexios and his army, which proceeded to continued to defend the palace, but three 79-year-old emperor to abdicate. Alexios I Komnenos became the emperor. While we now tend to think of Alexios as a the Sultanate of Rum was handed most of Anatolia a usurper, the Normans were about to invade, the alliance of the Danubian cities was in treasury was empty, the manpower was depleted No man alive could unify the bickering families against this many enemies, but Alexios' Alexios's mother not only played a pivotal behind the administration for the next 15 She arranged marriage alliances and delicately people in the empire. The previous approach of purging political mercy and amnesty. Many old titles were discarded and instead Nikephoros Melissenos was pardoned and made The extended Komnenos family was given important Precious gifts were sent to the Pope, Doge, while Alexios mustered an army to meet Robert You can check out the two videos we made covering which was as devastating as Manzikert, via right corner. Despite numerous setbacks, Alexios and his died of malaria in 1085, but in order to repay possible, Alexios made considerable concessions The Doge was granted the new hereditary title imperial seniority. The Venetians were granted gold, honors, and Shops houses and 3 landing stages were granted were exempt from customs duties and sea taxes. In return, Venice was to answer when called This caused a drastic shift and would spiral the local merchants out of a job. We now have to talk about the catalyst behind With the help of modern Climatology, historians were able to describe the extreme events occurring On one hand the Medieval Warm period, spanning developments in iron smelting led to a population France, England and Germany which could now of horseshoes and the heavy plow. This population growth meant that many could On the other hand the entire Middle East was Egypt which was the breadbasket of the region years of droughts causing famine and pestilence As the cold set in, numerous steppe people path to sustain themselves. The climate instability was mirrored by a Caliph in Baghdad was only a spiritual figurehead, Buyid dynasty. The Seljuks - a tribe within the Oghuz Turks, from one place to another, offering their Despite embracing Sunni Islam, they were seen After the Seljuk leader Tughril proclaimed Mas'ud launched a campaign, taking the cities towards Merv. Along the way his supply lines were harassed army including 50000 men and 12 elephants no fresh water. On May 23 1040 the battle of Dandanaqan featured 16000 strong lightly armored force humiliated chief secretary and generals, who barely escaped. The Ghaznavid fell into decline and civil holding in India, while the Seljuks rose to Tuhgril appointed his brother Chagri as governor vassalise most of modern day Iran within the The two key factors that allowed a small band the military prowess and piety of Tuhgril followers. This rising tide was aimed towards the Shia Caliphate, but Tughril didn't fail to realize need to defeat the decaying Eastern Roman As we showed previously, the Byzantines were Basil II, which included the newly formed Additionally they had relatively friendly gifts to each other, releasing prisoners and since 1037. And so in order to weaken the Romans, as well of modern day Azerbaijan, Tughril sent an but followed up by a much larger one under in September of the same year. The Byzantine army was a shadow of its former west to deal with a rebel army. The governor of the newly conquered Ani wanted Seljuks could raid the countryside, but the to be the son of the last Bulgarian tsar, The commanders agreed to take the latter approach prince Liparit. The Seljuks raided the entire area between focused on the district of Basean, attacking were caught between a fire and the Turkish Thousands died or were enslaved as the town As soon as the Georgian reinforcements arrived, plain near the fortress of Kapetron. Contemporary sources exaggerate the figures massive battle in which the Seljuks had the The Georgians formed the center, the governor of Ani made up the right wing. The battle began in the evening and was mostly defeating a disorganised Seljuk advance on Liparit after his horse was shot with an arrow. He then withdrew to the east, while the Romans This nocturnal battle was the first major with mixed results. The Seljuks suffered in both men and reputation, loot and while the Byzantines repelled two devastation on the region left a lasting impact The Georgian leader was released after promising was sent to Constantinople to demand tribute That request was denied, but Tughril was allowed the capital. By 1050, one of the key Seljuk allies, the swiftly defeated by the nomads who captured their control. Seeing where the wind was blowing, the puppet to replace the Shia Buyid dynasty, which was to Mecca. Despite the accumulating power, the Seljuk family members as well as Persian bureaucrats, Tughril's vizier Al-Kunduri constantly conspired own cause, while Ibrahim, who felt like he rebelled in 1058, but was unable to gather by his halfbrother. Internally the Seljuks were extremely divided so to feed this hunger, Tughril started sending with the sack of Meletine in 1058, while expanding Both the Byzantines and the Fatimids were ruled by Al-Mustansir Billah who reigned from and inept Muslim rulers. During his reign power shifted from his mother harassed the populace already suffering from The coastal cities in the Levant were mostly 1060s in quick succession. In 1063 The Seljuk sultan died after appointing In reality Suleiman's elder brother Alp capital of Rey, while Tughril's cousin Qutalmish, base in Girdkuh, reaching the city first. However, the vizier Al-Kunduri declared his besiege the city in November 1063. This delay proved critical as it allowed for to lift to siege and engage his enemy, crushing Knowing that the remainder of the army was of a creek to block their path, but eventually and defeated his relative. In his flight Qutalmish fell from a cliff, Alp Arslan had big shoes to fill, so he immediately Georgia, sacking the great city of Ani after It was at this time when the Eastern Roman frontier under the leadership of the energetic Arslan and nomadic tactics were no match for In 1071 after the battle of Manzikert, Romanos to another civil war, while Alp Arslan turned The following events are described differently is the most likely sequence: After Alp Arslan fortress, its commander was brought before He complained that he didn't wish to die him to be untied and shot an arrow at him, his life, according to the sources. The man then rushed at the sultan, who rose The desperate fortress owner grabbed his dagger the servants killed him. Alp Arslan suffered from his injuries for by his son Malikshah . This led to another the rival tribes fought each other and began of Qutalmish managed to escape into Anatolia, shrewd diplomacy and brilliant military tactics after he allied the Byzantines who handed Melikshah I began his reign by defeating his He then turned his attention to the Karakhanids Alp Arslan's death, and defeated both of In 1076 the leader of the unruly Nawakiyya of southern Syria before being defeated at Tutush was sent to Damascus to relieve the the city, killing the Nawakiyya leader and Sidon, Gibelcar, Tiberias, Ramla, Jaffa and Malikshah I reigned during the peak of the vizier Nizam al-Mulk, who's policies during brought stability and prosperity to the state. Many schools and observatories were founded later created in Europe, acting as centers Caravanserai were built on many important accomodation was provided by the state. Taxation, Administration and Justice were bureaucrats. After his death in a hunting expedition in to how the Mongol Empire fragmented, with local governors carving up a piece for themselves. Tutush and Suleiman clashed in their desire sultan. At this point our story syncs up and we can to solve the Norman crisis and now prepared and the local cities on the bank of the Danube This divide existed for over a decade, but harsh treatment of the Paulician community him in his Norman campaigns. The two rebel groups and the Pechenegs allied the suburbs of Constantinople. Rather than chasing nomads up and down, Alexios Alexios and his key generals gathered a large a massive fleet shadowing its movement before At the war council one of the key generals had this to say about the plan: "Sir, if the fastest horses" when another council "for the flight". Despite the warning and centuries of experience marched on directly at the city of Drastar supplies they needed to survive. Envoys were sent to discuss peace terms, but home with a simple treaty, so he arrested The now enraged nomads employed hit and run army camp. Still Alexios managed to reach the trade city citadels, the defenders of which held out. Not wanting to be caught in between a siege and sought out the Pechenegs in open combat, his army for long. It didn't take long before the horse riders while the wings were commanded by his brother Alexios ordered his infantry to hold their Pechengs formed up with their wagons forming The two sides clashed and fought for an extended evading the Romans as they fired arrows from until another group appeared on the horizon, The son of Romanos died in combat, while Alexios In their route the Byzantines had to abandon in some bushes after it was brought on campaign Broken, scattered and chased down by the nomads, before finding their way back home. However shortly after the battle another nomadic the Pechengs to aid them, arrived after the Regardless they demanded their share of the spoils should go to the many injured warriors. The argument spiraled out of control and the over all of the spoils and chasing the Pechenegs In the next three years, Alexios changed his of units defending against raids and tracking In one instance we are told of Alexios suspending them down on the unsuspecting raiders below Balkan peasants were recruited as infantry mercenaries. Meanwhile, a new threat rose from Anatolia Chaka who was theoretically part of the Sultanate in 1088 and began raiding and capturing Aegean Rhode s. He also reached out and coordinated his attacks Cyprus who were unhappy with the taxing policies After hearing of the battle of Drastar, Chaka convincing them to launch a new major offensive Alexios with his navy. As a response Alexios reached out to the Cumans them all of the captives and loot from any In 1091, the Pechenegs raided Thrace again The combined army assembled against the incoming bearers to the Cuman side which made up the him in the middle of the battle. On the left wing Seljuk and Latin knights heavy arrow fire and had nowhere to run, as The trap was set and now the imperial infantry nomads who had also brought their wives and Alexios capitalized on this overwhelming victory of water to his troops, refreshing them and The carnage was so severe that it led to a 1091: "All because of one day, the Scyths managed to escape, while others were taken in the army, but either way they will never So far we have covered the first decade of of a bankrupted and exhausted Eastern Roman He fought off the Normans and Pechenegs and the balance between the powerful noble families, And yet the biggest issue on the agenda was The now firmly established Sultanate of Rum, was no longer a vassal of the Byzantines. A year after his victory at the Battle of social and monetary reforms and crowned his to reconquer Anatolia. But before he could depart, news of a Serbian knew that he could not campaign in the east, set out towards Dyrrachium. As the army moved across the Via Egnatia in IV was caught with a concealed dagger. After being tortured the co-conspiritors were list included the former empress Maria and him. Alexios came to the realization that the Empire lengthy campaign against the Seljuks and that to the disasters he fought so desperately Luckily he was meticulously working on another After witnessing the military prowess of the to the courts of the west, hoping to inspire the Roman lands for more than just gold. Agents spread the stories of how the Turks way to Jerusalem. How the Muslims destroyed holy sites and turned how Christian men and women were enslaved Along with these, came generous donations even pieces of the true cross, giving a taste would take up this colossal task and act as The Seljuk treatment of the many pilgrims but not untrue. In contrast to the sedentary Islamic population, Laws of War and were known for their brutal was decentralized and rogue chieftains often More importantly Jerusalem as well as the caused by a succession crisis with at least each other. The majority of Christian Europe was illiterate There were numerous sites that people believed the bones of supposed saints for a few coins. And yet the most holy of sites was that of from which pilgrims would bring back scrapings That very church was destroyed by the Fatimid resources, fear took hold of the populace, In fact many believed that Jesus would return Natural occurrences, such as meteor showers the fears and hopes of the Christian world. For centuries the main opposition to Islam Sicily, south Italy and Byzantium, but a new Burgundy and France, one which called for Pope Urban II himself cited the Book of Daniel and offered a new remedy for human sin. The pagans to the north were gone, the Reconquista the nobles were obsessed with the idea of The lords who dominated the fractured monarchies and agricultural innovations of the eleventh which meant that the older sons inherited purpose, often turning against each other Pilgrimage was one of the best ways for the was to Santiago de Compostela, Rome or Jerusalem, They knew the road, how to fight, but lacked Until this period, the Papacy had little more of Leo IX, Nicholas II, Alexander II and especially [to vie] for power and the authority over Leo IX personally led an army in 1053 as seen In 1063 Alexander II sent a papal banner and against the Muslims to the army preparing one to William of Normandy as he was preparing In 1073 Gregory VII proposed to lead an army had just regained the Papal seat from the Alexios was thwarted, was preparing to outdo Pope Urban II was elected in 1088 and was Gregorian reforms, which outlined the superiority Initially, he was isolated from Rome due to but he was energetic, well spoken and extremely support everywhere he went. Determined to gain the pontificate he even the friendly correspondance with Alexios, III. Even after being recognized as the bishop expeditions across Christendom and and assembled was centered around church reform, the antipope, I who married Bertrade of Montfort, despite own, for which he was excommunicated. This council was in direct opposition of the civil war against his wife and son, which At the end of the proceedings a few Byzantine many soldiers to enter Alexios's service all of their sins would be forgiven. This was only a small preview, during which respond, before he could proceed with the The next crucial step was securing the support The first was Bishop Adhemar who would become the second was count Raymond of Toulouse, Muslims in Iberia and made a pilgrimage to With their allegiance secured, Urban crossed full regalia to the cheers of massive crowds The first place he went to was Clermont where For ten days he discussed clerical matters, the church and addressed over 400 listeners, in history. We have six accounts recounting that proclamation, of Jerusalem and slightly differents from written by a man who attended the council: yourselves to God to maintain peace among laws of the Church faithfully, there is work sincerity, now that you are aroused by divine you and God. Hastening to the way, you must help your brothers which they have already cried out many times. For, as most of you have been told, the Turks, the boundaries of Romania even to the Mediterranean George;' in occupying more and more of the already victims of seven battles, and have churches, and have laid waste God's kingdom. If you permit this supinely for very long, subjected. Concerning this affair, I, with suppliant heralds of Christ, to persuade all of whatever and poor, in numerous edicts, to strive to lands before it is too late. I speak to those present, I send word to those Remission of sins will be granted for those either on land or in crossing the sea, or I, being vested with that gift from God, grant Let those, who are accustomed to wage private forth against the Infidels in a battle worthy victory. Now, let those, who until recently existed let those, who formerly contended against now, let those, who recently were hired for reward. Let those, who wearied themselves to the detriment Nay, more, the sorrowful here will be glad the enemies of the Lord here will be His friends Let no delay postpone the journey of those the money owed to them and the expenses for spring has come, let them enter the crossroads Contrary to popular belief, there was no overwhelming was mixed. At the end of this speech, Bishop Adhemar that he would go on to this crusade, sowing The outline of this massive project was set the points Urban was trying to make are clear: sinful conflicts and instead direct them against the pilgrims, in order to aid the Eastern in return for remission of all sins. Pope Urban II had the same goal as Gregory, a marketing genius taking the idea of the option the nobility took in order to repent purpose, one which would solve domestic disputes, Papacy in both the West and the East. This armed pilgrimage was open to all, but and excluded the peasants, women, children, was granted. Notably, simply joining this crusade would crusaders were required to act appropriately Each man who joined had to wear a cross on returned. Anyone who took the cross, but failed to fulfill and if anyone who touched the property of be excommunicated. This was to be a massive project, on a scale Trajan with many logistical difficulties, Roman Empire, so to tackle it, Urban set the in the region, which meant that the Byzantines Several armies under different leaders were no region was to be exhausted by the crusaders, the guidance of Bishop Adhemar. Many historical narratives begin the story but this is not entirely true. The Pope began his grand tour of France and of cities including Le Puy, Avignon, Lyon, Montpellier, saving the biggest cities for while carefully avoiding the Normans of Normandy of the French king, who he excommunicated. With each visit, the crowds grew larger and As he was traveling he also wrote letters In them we already see the euphoria taking idea and ran with it. In his letters the Pope recognizes that the and desperately attempts to take back control monks, however, do we concede permission to or abbots. Let it be the bishops' duty to permit their provision of the clergy. Nor should young married men rashly set out spouses". In another letter sent to Iberia he writes: decided with one mind to go [with Urban I1 and to liberate their brothers from the tyranny and with our encouragement to work with greater the invasions of the Saracens. No one must doubt that if he dies on this his sins will surely be forgiven and he will compassionate mercy of our God. So if any of you has made up his mind to go try to fulfill his vow, because it is no virtue one place, only to expose them to the tyranny But it was too late, everyone was consumed they owned for the journey ahead. A wild fever ran across France as the prices stole what they could, taking advantage of Both Alexios and Urban spent years preparing what was about to happen. While Urban was still touring central and the Hermit inspired by the Pope decided to message and delivering it to a different target Starting out in Berry, Peter began touring before long he captivated the hearts and minds One of his supporters described him by writing: his ankles, and above it a hood; he wore a his arms, but his feet were bare. He drank wine and ate fish, but scarcely ever Another eyewitness reports: We saw him wander surrounded by so many people, given so many that I don't ever remember anyone equally like something almost divine. Even the hairs of his mule were torn out as Peter was an extremely charismatic preacher, a few years earlier and saw firsthand how and desecrating the holy sites. According to him, as he slept in the Church of Christ who handed him a round letter mandating parts of the world to take up arms and journey to claim eternal possession of the city with There is no evidence that Peter ever made from joining him as he traveled from one city at hand and that Christians would have to Compared to Urban's more moderate approach to a larger group of people, mostly commoners, 1095 saw the occurrence of a meteor shower, of a comet, blood colored clouds and a number Some said that the Holy Roman Emperor Charlemagne his people into Jerusalem. When the word of the crusade began to spread, claiming miracles and divine signs. But arguably the largest contributor to the plagues. If we take a look at the multiple and independent to show. During the period between 1092 and 1095 there 1094 with 25 reported plagues, often accompanied Surrounded by Catholic imagery of damnation the notion of abandoning the little they had that is how many Christians thought of the Contrary to popular belief, the so-called nobles who joined Peter's group and those of the crusade and were about to unleash chaos Still, it is important to mention that although embarked on the journey for materialistic rather than the norm. After passing through Champagne in March 1096, Easter in Cologne. He sent smaller parties to preach in the surrounding men, women and children. Peter was joined by many minor nobles, among Geoffrey of Burel and many others. The plan was to take the route towards Jerusalem, aware of since the Great German pilgrimage of major German clerics, among them Archbishop of pilgrims were killed by the local Bedouins and returned home by sea. However, this was another big deviation from for the crusade to cross the Adriatic and coinciding with the Byzantine harvest, a date for by sending vast amounts of grain merchants Peter took the time to preach in Cologne to inpatient and decided to leave as soon as As a result of this schism, the crusade was one commanded by Walter and 3 more under the of the initial call even further and weaponized The series of events which we now call the point in history. This was not the first time, when the minority and nature of these attacks would mark a new numerous times in the centuries to come. Contemporary scholars writing after the conquest on Peter or peasant greed, with the goal of Crusade from the failed People's Crusade, Jews which the church unilaterally saw as were forcibly baptized they reconverted once But how did this all start and why did these place? Even before the army crossed the Rhine, words to distant lands in the East to attack the before our eyes, a race that is the greatest We've got it all backwards!" Days went by as children asked their parents new city and the growing excitement turned Most of the German nobles were busy fighting became obsessed with the promise of indulgence, Count Emicho of Leiningen added his own ideas and proclaiming that he was The Last Emperor, going to Jerusalem and wiping out Judaism. His well-equipped and well-organized army May 3rd 1096 at the newly settled city of The Bishop of Speyer who had heard of the protect the Jewish populace and as a result 15 days later Emicho descended upon the city They took a 'trampled corpse' of theirs, which carried it through the city, saying, 'Behold They took a gentile and boiled him in water. They then poured the water into our wells Many Jews, forewarned by the events in Speyer, of Worms. They looked on from the sanctuary of his palace, to remain at homes were massacred. The crusaders demanded that they convert and of them refused. Emicho laid siege to the bishop's palace that the Jews inside had decided to take their Only five days later the band was already took a massive amount of money in return for At first the rest of the populace rallied some of them opened the gates, which the crusaders been opened by themselves. All this the Crucified has done for us, so 1014 of them died in a single day. Hearing of this, the citizens of Cologne took destroying every Torah scroll they found along were spared after mass forced conversions. The second group under a monk named Folkmar to Prague, inspiring another Jewish pogrom Another group with at least 15000 followers atrocities as they made their way along the It is important to note that the majority crusade, who's leaders also attacked members Meanwhile Walter and around 10000 crusaders met with king Coloman, who treated him well. But by the time they reached the Sava river Walter's men bartering with local weapon of their clothes and valuables. The humiliated soldiers walked naked to the of Belgrade refused to open his markets. In response Walter plundered the countryside in between skirmishes with the Hungarian and At one point 140 crusaders were routed and burned down. Eventually the group made it to Nish, where the governor who ensured their safe passage along the way. Peter the Hermit's contingent, which had days behind Walter's. Upon their entry to Hungary, king Coloman the crusaders approached the Sava river they from the battlements of Zemun. This sight came at the same time as a rumor warlord and the governor of Belgrade were After camping in front of the city for 17 his archers to target the watchmen, while ladders. According to one source 4000 Hungarians were whether the numbers were exaggerated or not, a week . By this time, Peter learned that he ordered his men to begin crossing the river stripped from the houses and bound with rope. While the people and supplies were being ferried, and opened fire. A makeshift Frankish navy grouped up and attempted but the cohesion was significantly damaged. As they arrived at Nish a deal was struck, for access to the local markets, but it didn't A group of soldiers were dissatisfied with set fire to several mills and houses just on the road. In response the governor launched a raid on women and children. Cattle were stolen, dozens were killed or even react. Peter could not let this go unpunished, so negotiate. His followers however were uninterested in without any semblance of a plan. The garrison managed to hold out against the projectile weapons and once the crusaders The disjointed and broken army was now in Men, women and children fell prey to the Byzantines, including a wagon filled with gold and silver. The crusaders scattered in the nearby forests, lost in the battle, however that included as most of their provisions. On July 12th Peter reached Serdica and met there was no trouble for the remainder of a generous gesture which showed both the commitment The next group to reach Hungary was that of capital, the army quickly responded by killing Then came Gottschalk's contingent and this for a prolonged period of time and a Hungarian Battle lines were drawn but neither side wanted the Hungarians proposed a truce: "If, indeed, money you have, you might soothe his anger But if you do otherwise, not one of you will you have committed such contumacy and calumny The crusaders agreed and as soon as they were Finally Emicho's army crossed into Hungary, so the crusaders decided to lay siege to the There were numerous skirmishes while bridges were opened on August 15 1096. While the king was preparing to flee, the as the franks poured in. The tides turned and the knights were routed, to escape, while the rest were vanquished. Back in Constantinople, Peter finally met met with Alexios who was instantly impressed The number of the crusaders was significant, and a few thousand footmen, as most of the Hungarians and Byzantines, so the emperor outside the city walls. This was seen as a grave insult to the thousands were now prevented from seeing some of the more looting occured. According to Anna Komnena's Alexiad "the They sacked and burned palaces of the city they could sell it back to the Greeks." Despite his lack of confidence, Alexios knew were ferried across to Anatolia on the 6th Once on the Asiatic shore they began attacking under the Seljuks, pillaging houses and churches since its sack fifteen years earlier and was The Romans kept a steady supply of grain ships the other base at Civetot, but months went starting to run out. On October 1st, Peter decided to go back to deal with Alexios and in his absence a rift side and the German and Italian knights on As animosity grew, the latter group decided on their own. The once great Roman city was now the capital The Nicean garrison charged out but was defeated leadership had some of the best training and After the Turks were repelled they headed they quickly captured, sparing only its Christian The castle had plenty of grain, meat and wine, not a threat they could deal with easily. Three days later Kilij Arslan made his way Italian contingent along the way. Siege lines were drawn and the unyielding allies. The only two sources of freshwater nearby guarded by the Seljuks. As the days dragged on the crusaders began Some of them buried themselves in the sand to suck water out of the dry earth. On the eighth day the gate was set on fire Some surrendered, while others jumped, sallied few Germans managed to survive. Back in the camp, Peter was still negotiating, Nicea had fallen and that the crusaders were Once again the Christians were divided with the rest wanted to act now. A decision was made that all the fighting towards Nicea, while the women, children and Somewhere along the way the truth was revealed multiplied as Kilij Arslan's army ambushed from the camp. No formations were drawn, instead each of the far more mobile enemy. The horse archers employed hit and run tactics, another group of Turkish cavalry circled around divisions charged forward as the Seljuks fired Initially there the situation looked hopeful of their opponents, but then the Turks aimed There were only a few hundred survivors, which seven arrows sticking out of him.The remainder The camp followers lit bonfires which were situation was hopeless. Tens of thousands who were inspired by Peter or were killed, but most were captured. Those who refused to convert were taken captive Khorasan. Three thousand managed to reach a nearby ruined fortifications. The following day a single boat managed to send his fleet and rescue a fragment of the Anna Komnena's description of the dead no provides a good sense of how the slaughter arriving nine months later: "When they gathered side, they heaped up, I will not say a mighty height and depth and width, so huge was the The so-called Peasants' Crusade led by Peter Alexios' mouth, but he was still determined Dyrrachium was designated as the rendezvous along with large stockpiles of provisions since the days of the united Roman Empire. To quote the chronicler and participant of 'Who ever heard of such a mixture of languages There were Franks, Flemings, Frisians, Gauls, Normans, English, Scots, Aquitanians, Italians, and Armenians. If any Breton or Teuton wished to question The earliest group was that of Hugh Count French king and one of the two actual princes In February 1096, he led a council in Paris expedition, which he intended to lead. Coincidentally a lunar eclipse occurred during observed as the moon became blood red. During the next several months, commoners as they needed the currency to buy provisions mass deflation due to the shortage of hard The group headed out towards Constantinople along the way was joined by the remnants of knights. Upon reaching Bari in October, Hugh sent a "Be it known to you, Duke, that our Lord He brings with him from Rome the golden standard Understand, moreover, that he is the supreme See to it then that he is accorded a reception meet him." Unfortunately for Hugh, however, another natural sunk during the treacherous crossing of the The prince himself was found on the coast majority of his army and supplies. The remnants were greeted warmly, outfitted, by admiral Manuel Boutumite s. The second group was led by Godfrey of Bouillon, of his life fighting for the Holy Roman Emperor from a coalition of claimants . Despite tracing were not hereditary, which meant that his So when the preachings of Urban and Peter great enthusiasm. He sold off most of his estates, mortgaged of Liege and extorted many Jewish citizens included his brother Baldwin and many knights In order to avoid the Papacy, this second by the People's crusade via Hungary. In early October, king Coloman was given Godfrey's to raid the countryside, and convinced him that there would be no raiding. There were no accidents along the way, thanks who defied Godfrey would be killed and by and entered the sacked city of Belgrade. By the time they reached Nish, the crusaders that the army would be well fed along the grain, wine, oil, and meat. Some of the nobles were so impressed by this hoping to get more gifts, at which point they On December 12th, Godfrey halted at Selymbria, peaceful movement, turned to raiding and looting Hugh was rejected. Alexios sent two Franks in his service to army made camp outside Constantinople along to assure him that the rumor was false. The Lotharingians were puzzled and further of Civetot blamed Alexios for the disaster to meet the emperor personally. Alexis responded by closing his markets to Demands, insults, scare tactics and a short-lived several ships filled with Pecheneg archers marched towards Constantinople, aiming to His brother Baldwin led 500 soldiers, who Both sides sustained heavy casualties, but After six more days of plundering the countryside, envoy arrived and announced that Alexios was and heir John as a hostage. With this guarantee, Godfrey entered the city vengeful enemy, he met a generous host. "I have heard about you," Alexius told and prince in your land, and a very wise man Because of this I am taking you as my adopted in your power, so that my empire and land present and future multitudes. In return for numerous gifts, Godfrey swore and return any land taken conquered from the Some sources misunderstand this oath as one of a familiar custom, for a completely different Mercenaries in the service of Byzantium were titles and land in return. In this case, Alexios became the supreme commander of land. When he returned to his camp, Godfrey ordered Byzantine ships who transported him across Hermit. The third crusader force was that of Bohemond Robert Guiscard in favor of his younger halfbrother and Bari. In 1096 he was helping his uncle lay siege was making its way to the Holy Land with crosses With little to lose, Bohemond prepared to expensive garment and had it cut into crosses Many warriors stepped forward under the pretext along with many footmen abandoned the siege The experienced commander ordered that his coastline, before meeting up in the city of They were instructed to not plunder the countryside but as they arrived at their former base of to share their supplies , which led to another an entire community of Paulicians was eradicated As the army reached the Via Egnatia they were who harassed them with the tried and tested The crusaders prevailed and several Pechenegs out they were carrying out imperial orders Eventually, a high official met with the Normans with supplies. At the same time, Bohemond attempted to make against the Empire, but his message arrived Bohemond had some of the best soldiers in he decided to enter Constantinople as a friend. Upon meeting his old rival, Alexios once again for. During a feast, Bohemond was offered both it was poisoned, the Norman decided to pick Later he began negotiating with Alexios in he should become Domesticos of the East or The request was denied and instead, he was as well as being designated as an Imperial After agreeing and swearing the same oath quarters which were filled with precious objects, Not everyone in Bohemond's army was happy to play sophisticated mind games and instead Norman forces. That same day the third and by far the largest force arrived at Constantinople. Raymond IV, count of Toulouse, was extremely himself, having recently inherited Provence. By his marriage with Elvira of Aragon he was and fought several wars there. He was the only crusade leader who personally was fully committed to it. He brought his wife and heir as well as several influential follower was the spiritual leader Raymond had no intention to return to France in order, which delayed his departure. Additionally instead of taking the suggested decided to travel via the Adriatic coast, winter, where his army was harassed by Slavic Eventually the army made its way to Dyrrachium Pecheneg parties sent to watch their actions. It was very difficult to control such a vast Several barons were killed during hit and by several Pechenegs who were about to kill and fled. Upon reaching Thessaloniki, the Bishop and treatment, while the rest of the force marched The envoys from the capital invited Raymond meet up with the other crusade leaders. Fearing that the leadership of the crusade Constantinople, leaving behind a leaderless countryside. Raymond was received as well as the other oath, recognizing Alexios as the overall commander he was outraged. Bohemond approached him and tried to act as pledged that if Raymond would go to war with Once again Alexios stepped up to the challenge Raymond that the Normans are the real enemy case they betray the cause. Finally, on April 26th Raymond swore a modified of the party on the other side of the Bosphorus. The last crusader army was a combined force Robert, Duke of Normandy was the son of William warfare as a result of waging a war against out over a prank. After his defeat at the hands of his own son, despite being his first born, while his other Naturally, civil war ensued and Robert lost So when the call to crusade arrived,, Robert since his grandfather died on his way to Jerusalem, in return for 10 000 marks of silver. His cousin Robert, Count of Flanders also and agreed to send Alexios five hundred Flemish After Robert received a personal letter from Stephen of Blois on the other hand was not , daughter of William the Conqueror, who made to her will and when she wanted him to go, lands. The combined force of these three main leaders Lucca, who gave them his blessings before Robert of Flanders immediately crossed and way to Constantinople, except for losing one the Byzantine fleet after he tried to sail The other two leaders on the other hand decided led to mass desertion as men sold their bows Eventually, Robert of Normandy and Stephen delighted by the warm welcome, the latter love, gave many great presents, but he was The combined crusader force was assembled and constantly receiving more goods from the fixed and fair price by the state. When we factor in the losses sustained along skirmishes, disease, shipwreck, and above estimate of the total force, which also included That being said thanks to the dozens of accounts, crusader entourage, the starting figure at 7500 of which were mounted knights, 30000 It is very important to note that among them as each knight was accompanied by a warhorse, than tripled if that knight was prominent. The fact that Byzantium kept up with the logistical and preparation matched that of the crusaders. Added to this giant force was the trusted infantry. In April 1097 most of the host was on the cleared from overgrowth and marked with crosses Nicea. The majority of the army reached its destination built by Emperor Hadrian and consistently the Seljuk Turks to become its garrison. Nicea was located at a very strategic location 5 kilometers, 10 meters tall with 117 round To add to that there was a double ditch, four hugged the Ascanian lake. The Turks manning these walls were expert to retake the fortress in 1081 and 1086. As the site of the First Ecumenical Council had a deep impact on all Christians, and seeing only strengthened the crusader's resolve. Meanwhile the sultan Kilij Arslan was confident family and treasury to go to Melitine on the that his rival the Danishmends were trying In his eyes, the crusader threat was dealt that this force was several times larger than back, arriving on May 14. Initially, some of the crusaders who reached but were soundly defeated. Around the same time, two spies were caught, The crusaders immediately sent messages to himself on the south gate in order to encircle The Provencal detachment made up half of setting up camp when ten thousand Turks charged The Franks were exhausted, but formed up and and Bishop Adhmear delivering his first battlefield Now eternal life is at hand for you, indeed battle! Go forth confidently against these enemies today to achieve victory!" For hours the Seljuks were unsuccessful in of Flanders arrived and charged at their right Both sides sustained heavy casualties, but The Christians took no prisoners - thousands Alexios who made camp at the nearby city of and even more were impaled on spears as a In return, the defenders used a device with a corpse and hang it from the battlements. By June 3 the last crusaders joined the camp siege. They formed a council, which created a shared various regiments, and began building siege The first of which was called the fox, a structure of sappers which advanced under the cover making its way towards the wall it collapsed, Next they tried siege ladders, but that also the city's defenses . Another ram was constructed, and destroyed it. Eventually, Raymond had a chief engineer who first ram which made it to a damaged and leaning it to reach the wall, where a group of sappers extended they placed wooden beams for support. Once they were deep enough the beams were Unfortunately darkness set in and the assault to their surprise the crusaders discovered piling rocks and sealed the breach. In the meantime, Alexios was executing a plan sacked, or worse that the crusaders could He sent out his admiral Boutoumites who entered His first attempt ended in failure, but then horses carried a small fleet over mountains As the tower collapsed, the wife of Kilij only to be captured by said fleet. At this point Nicea, was fully surrounded the lake. Boutoumites entered the garrison once more that the defenders would be massacred by the Emperor. The deal was accepted, but a final bit of General Tatikius announced that a massive of June 19, the army would carry crosses and attack on all sides. The crusaders agreed and armed themselves, ramparts, Nicea had fallen to the Byzantine proclaimed: 'Glory to you, Lord!'", what was the real purpose of this crusade? Despite the fact that Crusaders showed their the siege of Nicea, in the end, it was cunning The sack of the ancient city was prevented, liberated, but the Romans now had to ensure prevent them from slaughtering the Turkish The Seljuk defenders were secretly ferried Emperor who gave out gifts to everyone, with defect to his side. Alexios spent a fortune ensuring that the own, but he simultaneously was sending out had little to do with the savage Franks and would not only be spared, but generously rewarded. As for the crusaders themselves, their leaders while wagons filled with bronze coins were Despite that, tensions began to rise as the host. Some were offended by the disparity in the were given out in the first place, as this by faith, not possessions, and yet the biggest groups were allowed in Nicea to observe and Before they could depart, Alexios seized his who didn't swear an oath to him - Bohemond's The Norman once again refused and demanded their next target and to receive a royal tent you wish to dominate, then you must strive A brawl broke out, but eventually calmer minds the emperor's hand and received no gifts. Upon departure he stared at Alexios and said: not a friend." The council convened and the Byzantines laid The next major target was naturally Antioch, throughout the harsh environment of the region Alexios put the Imperial army and navy under who was tasked with the recovery of the coastal Seljuk Chaka Bey, who ruled from Smyrna semi-independently threat with his navy and would prevent any made it to Antioch. And while some Latins must have felt abandoned join the already giant host, only adding to Not to mention the risks of Cuman invasions, what if the new ruler wasn't so cooperative Once again, the Franks were to be escorted loyal to Alexios, and as a Turk himself he of. Before departing Alexios gave them plenty them to send envoys to the Fatimid Caliphate And so, ten days after Nicea was taken - June column and set off. One of the leaders, Stephen of Blois wrote that from Nicea we will arrive at Jerusalem not slow us down." Little did he know, the Franks would venture the summer heat to face an enemy that vanquished To reduce the load on the logistics the coalition ahead with Tatikios and Bohemond, the two by the contingents of Tancred, Robert of Flanders Stephen, Hugh and Raymond were a three days It is very difficult to determine the crusader many among them women and children. The first army had around 3000 knights and infantry, accompanied by at least as many The second force was at least twice as large, 20000 infantry, with just as many non-combatants. Riders were constantly galloping between the about the route they were taking. And while the vast column crawled towards observed their every move from the hilltops. The Seljuk Turks were not alone, as Kilij Turkic Danishmends to put their differences force between ten and fifteen thousand steppe They were equipped with leather armor, piercing was the recurve bow, with an effective range Combined with their expert riding ability deadly combination that crushed the Byzantines to split his army in two halves. It is important to note, that unlike many Anatolia were stripped of a massive advantage, Despite controlling the region for over a to provide each of their riders with half sacrifice in either speed or endurance. In the afternoon of the 30th June, a few Seljuk made camp and sent a messenger to the second continuing their march the next morning, imagining up, trumpets sounding, arranged against the and centuries, standards raised, in an orderly . After crossing a small river, the army entered from Dorylaeum . The open plain was wide enough them to catch the crusaders by surprise; they ambush. As soon as the Seljuk force was seen, Bohemond picking a spot close to the river, hoping on one flank. In order to buy them some time, he and Robert of 3000 knights and charged at Kilij Arslan. The fighting raged for almost an hour, but sending them back towards the makeshift camp, and baggage train were directed towards the Hundreds of troops that were between the two completely unaware of the ongoing battle before Bohemond and Robert ordered their entire force cavalrymen to hold the vanguard and withstand There were no walls, just a mass of people together against the circling nomads who tried and taunting in the hope they would turn their One eyewitness reports: "they encircled and throwing darts and spears and firing arrows They howled and shrieked and shouted, making and shouting like demons." One particular Frankish knight called Robert of the first casualties. Back at Constantinople he mocked the Emperor, Instead of punishing him, Alexios invited advising him to never chase their nomadic Overcome by anger, the knight threw himself shot around him, within moments his movement he was slashed by a blade in full sight of their shields up. Bohemond and Robert were now screaming, ordering if the lines broke there would be nowhere At first women constantly supplied the soldiers as the hours dragged on they also had the - both duties were essential to the survival passing moment hope was fading. People and animals alike were crying out, when suddenly Kilij Arslan gave the order on horse and on foot. Brutal hand to hand combat ensued, with many William. Charge after charge failed to break the Normans, the marsh and entered the camp killing anyone A band of knights quickly rushed to close were at the brink. This was when a group of cavalrymen appeared It had now been five hours since the first word of the attack Godfrey of Bouillon arrived against the Seljuks, who halted their attack Not long after Raymond and Hugh joined the numerical advantage, the lack of remounts army was extremely low on both energy and At this point Tatikios and Bohemond switched and as the crusader cavalry engaged the steppe detachment was seen on top of a hill behind Bishop Adhemar, who used local guides to outflank troops charged into the enemy camp, plundering on fire and advancing on the enemy. With enemies on all sides, the Turkic army and had no choice but to flee. The formations held, the reinforcements arrived entire Muslim world. Ibn al-Qalanisi, an Arabic writer noted: "when to the cause of Islam, the anxiety of the increased". 3000 nomads perished in the battle, while were celebrated as martyrs. The plunder of the camp resulted in numerous camels, not to mention much needed grain. Everyone involved played a crucial role, but of Taranto, who rallied his men to stand their It was his courage and leadership that prevented It didn't take long before supernatural Seljuk deserters swore that they had seen of wondrous appearance, riding ahead of our them no opportunity for fighting.". Christian chroniclers later wrote that God traditionally connected with the Orthodox When the army broke camp on July 4th, they horses and Seljuks, which they took as an routed enemy. The further the army moved away from Constantinople, their beliefs and actions, the boundaries News quickly reached Alexios, who immediately One army moved towards Abydoss, while the At the same time, the Byzantine navy sailed onboard as a gesture of good faith. Unbeknownst to the Byzantines, Chaka had recently who personally executed him because of a growing As in every other city, the Seljuks were a they surrendered and a new governor was installed. As one of his first decisions, the new governor a crime. Fearing for his own life, the desperate man which led to widespread violence as the sailors local populace. Doukas had already moved on to his next target, of what had just occurred at Smyrna, the Seljuks open battle. Both sides sustained heavy casualties, but with no resistance. Leaderless, defeated and surrounded by rebellious the severity of their situation and city after Sardis and Philadelphia quickly followed, that of Laodicea, where according to the Alexiad, and left it in the hands of the deserters. Based on this we can conclude that he was fortresses and that some nomads, including and chose to stay in their newfound homes By the end of 1097, the emperor signed a truce Anatolia, fulfilling the dream of his generation. But the campaign was far from over and it the crusaders to evaporate, as they made their Tatikios led the crossing, which took place 30 degrees C . There were no major rivers a scorched earth policy, stripping the land week into this tumultuous path, a stream was drank too much and suffocated, while others The first major casualty of this expedition of the greatest strengths of the Latin army. Western horses were larger than their eastern of water per day. Thousands of pack animals and hunting dogs the army could move was further slowed down. This was the sacrifice the army had to make, decided to take the southern route instead stopping at Amorium. The risky move tricked the Seljuks into thinking and would divert back to the coast at any Coupled with their recent victory, this meant have to worry about ambushes and hit and run By August, the coalition made it to Antioch thousands of soldiers perished, the horses, and two of the major leaders were on the brink Raymond was severely ill and didn't expect by a bear in a recent hunt. The next stop was Iconium, a formidable, but warmly welcomed by its Roman population. At Heraclea there was finally a hint of resistance, a short skirmish they fled the battle - the dared to stand against the knights for long. Instead of making for Cilicia, the army moved crossing the Taurus mountains, where the temperatures of the Franks, who were used to a very different knights decided to sell their weapons and Whether this was a good plan or not it solidifies were called by Alexios and his generals. As the troops advanced, Tatikios and his men urging the citizens to ready their goods for trouble. In the absence of Seljuk authority, Roman towards Constantinople, a step which was essential and supplies were needed to support it. In November 1097 Anselm of Ribemont writes while Stephen of Blois's account mentions It is safe to assume that most of Anatolia During the summer of 1097, the Seljuk scorched stripped the westerners from their most powerful Some fell from cliffs, and others perished ride oxen, mules, or simply travel on foot, pack animals. Soldiers were so dehydrated that on the rare suffocated themselves as they drank too much. After arriving at Heraclea , the army divided longer route north through Cappadocia and while a smaller contingent took the direct This strategy resulted from careful and cunning to ensure a base of operations, which could but also provides us with an idea of how well princes really was. The expedition in Cilicia was commanded by side characters of their more renowned relatives to prove their worth. Tancred led no more than 200 men, but was him to arrive at Tarsus before Baldwin, who What used to be the capital of the region Cleopatra was now a meager town, which lost On September 21, 1097, the Seljuk garrison but they were easily beaten back. The Norman then taunted the enemy, claiming Christian force; the following morning, he on the citadel. That same day Baldwin arrived and feasted Despite being absent from any engagements, equally, and since he had the larger force, His banner was replaced and thrown into the troops and rode east. A month later, at dusk, a force of 300 southern Tancred but were refused entry into Tarsus, Unseen, the bulk of the Seljuk garrison slipped slept, before riding off in the distance. A rumor began circulating that Baldwin was he locked himself in a tower waiting for the and leaving a week later, but the bloody stain Meanwhile, Tancred had made it to Mamistra, Armenians, who accepted him as their new ruler, Like clockwork, Baldwin arrived a few days Tancred would not back down. The first crusader confrontation was brief were seriously injured, but no one was killed going on their separate ways. Tancred garrisoned Mamistra with 50 men, secured main crusading host, on its way to Antioch a stable base in Armenian Cilicia. As for Baldwin, his adventure was just beginning. While the rest of the crusaders prepared to Bagrat who promised great riches and fertile Accompanied by just 100 knights he took a capture the towns of Tell Bashir and Ravendal Initially he rewarded Bagrat with lordship was uncovered and Baldwin hunted him down News of these conquests soon spread, reaching who was barely holding on to power. The two men formed an alliance, formalized stripped to their waist and embraced each father and adopted son. With his newfound Latin son, Thoros dispatched deal with his Seljuk rival from Samosata. On his return to Edessa, the crusader uncovered Thoros. Baldwin neither aided, nor turned them in, March 1098, the locals rebelled against their Baldwin immediately jumped on the opportunity which would become the base of the future carved out with just a hundred men and questionable Meanwhile, the main body of the crusader army to attack Antioch. At its peak it was the third city of the Roman diminished due to the rise of neighboring The Latins could have taken Jerusalem without this strategic target, which had immense value Luckily for them, those same cities were now alone in the backdrop of the fragmented Seljuk Ruled by its ambitious and very capable Turcoman his domain amidst civil war, pockets of Shi'ite an impending zealous army with quite the reputation. But now, let's look at what he had going 5000 men alongside 800 horses, incredibly thick covering a large area, including a hill, above the city, from which the defenders could Foothills, which could be turned into farmland, nearly impossible to take: The city was protected river flowed in a way that if an army wanted the camp in 3 on its west and south side. In mid-October, the leaders of the crusade tackle this challenge, Taticius came forward to the North and harass the garrison from in 969 during the Byzantine reconquista of decided on a more direct approach. Raymond of Toulouse was convinced that if during the winter, something which had already in the mountains. Satellite fortresses were captured and with Iron Bridge, opening the road to the coveted defenses high above them, all hopes of a direct 30 000 Latins, half of which were non-combatants, gates on 20 October, centered around the north-western Bohemond took up position in front of the Normans led by Tancred camped behind, the of Bouillon held the Gate of the Duke, and Siege warfare was a staple of medieval European Namely, the first banner to fly above the a strong claim to it, and it is here that some of his ambition, being the first to arrive crucial gate of the three. In the first two weeks, both sides were sizing period, during which Yaghi Siyan sent out enjoyed plentiful supplies from the rich valley. Fearing mutiny, the Seljuks expelled a large many Armenians took the chance to visit the what they saw. Suddenly this army that took down the Sultanate strategy changed entirely. Arrows were shot from atop the citadel, while camp, racing back across the bridge when given Harim, a nearby fortress was still in Muslim were continuously launched. By mid November, the winter cold was setting on the Christian force. The Crusaders were putting barely any pressure rich caravans from the south. In order to turn the tide, the Latins built small boats together, which was difficult The maneuver allowed the crusaders access which received regular shipments of supplies This entry point allowed the Franks to send in a rare collaboration between Bishop Adhemar drafted a letter asking the west to send a On 17th November 13 Genoese ships even made materials, which were used to build a fort Next, Bohemond was chosen to deal with Harim, namely a feigned retreat. This drew out the small garrison, which was led by Bohemond. The fortress didn't fall, but its garrison Eyewitness reports from the crusader camp: the city gate and there beheaded, to grieve The garrison immediately responded in kind, how many Christians, Greeks, Syrians and Armenians, maddened Turks. With the Franks looking on, they threw outside catapults and slings. This especially grieved our people." The Greek Christian patriarch of Antioch was down, while the guards beat his feet with Both sides were determined to win, no matter With the coming of December, the shipments in. Foraging parties ventured far from the camp again. Merchants from Cilicia became one of the few of making the journey led the traders to jack amongst the poor. Those who could not afford to feed themselves spread of disease, causing the death of a After celebrating a grim Christmas, Bohemond to find supplies, taking 400 knights and at The expedition did manage to find a significant as-Summaq, raiding nearby villages. While camping near the town of Albara, the one can make: they didn't post scouts and was on the horizon. The combined force of Damascus and Homs led surprised to find the raiding party on 31 call for aid. Robert instantly rallied his knights and charged Muslim force. Bohemond stayed back, pouncing at the right ally. Rather than risk failure for themselves and into camp, abandoning all of the supplies were on foot. Such was the lack of war steeds that most who had lost his rider and galloped west. When the dust settled, the troops from Damascus killing or capturing most of them. The blow inflicted by the crusader force was disinterested Muslim troops from continuing Over the next few days, Robert returned to overall, despite preventing utter disaster, But Bohemond and Robert's absence didn't the troop movement to Yaghi Siyan, who ordered camp. To make matters worse, Robert of Normandy was ill. Rushing out of the bridge gate, the Seljuks met Raymond of Toulouse. After a quick engagement, the garrison force chase. Upon approaching the Bridge Gate, more enemies into a rout. Men snatched riders from their saddles and knights and twenty footmen. Amidst the chaos, the bannerman of Bishop selected by Pope Urban himself, was slain. The next day the prized banner was flown atop who saw the flag depicting the Virgin Mary The turn of the year signaled the lowest point kilometers and enduring countless attacks their breaking point. An eyewitness reports: At that time, the famished fields and many kinds of herbs unseasoned well cooked because of the deficiency of firewood, also horses, asses, camels, dogs and rats. The poorer ones even ate the skins of the Simultaneously the men witnessed a comet and the signs as God's displeasure. It was at this crucial point, when the clergy by blaming it all on the sins of those involved. "We believed that these misfortunes befell so long a time to take the city, because of Not only dissipation, but also avarice, or Bishop Adhemar took measures into his own should be expelled from the camp and the rest around the city walls. Theft and fornication were forbidden and anyone Around this time a man and woman were caught and whipped for the whole army to see. These measures generally had a positive effect camp, but there were still some who deserted the Hermit, who was caught trying to leave But by far the most impactful departure was Seeing the conditions reach an all-time low, of Alexios pledged to sail to Constantinople To make a strong statement, he even left all which will become clear later, the shipments Writing with the benefit of hindsight, every Emperor and his general, and many of their shipments, which allowed the siege to even It was now late January of 1098, and Bohemond stating that he lacked the funds to pay for war chest, sponsored by Raymond, aimed at mounts. To ensure the army's cohesion, all crusader years, or until Antioch was taken. The garrison never stopped harassing the crusaders of hope was born, as a high-ranking Seljuk After learning that his family commanded one access to the tower as ransom, but Yaghi Siyan from their command. The crusaders began torturing their high-profile Just when things couldn't get any worse, the a new army was approaching Antioch from the Ridwan of Aleppo gathered 12 000 men in order impossible task. The answer was in the form of 700 knights, could muster, under the command of Bohemond. This was a big step, taken under desperation With no infantry to slow him down, the Norman the Iron Bridge, separating his force into From there, the Latins waited for the long On the morning of February 9th, Ridwan was as a vanguar away from his main force. Bohemond could have easily held a defensive his ambush ordering 5 of his squadrons to back. One eyewitness described these first minutes for all were fighting at once and the storm Knowing that they were heavily outnumbered, they played a crucial tactical role. Their shock attack drew Ridwan's main force His massed troops now began to push the crusaders victory was at hand. In fact, this was the moment for which Bohemond The author of the Gesta Francorum, who was description of this attack: So Bohemond, protected the Turkish forces, like a lion which has comes roaring out of its cave thirsting for fierce that the points of his banner were The other troops, seeing Bohemond's banner at once, and all our men in a body charged Our men pursued them and massacred them right The Norman bet the fate of the entire expedition head of the column started to trample those recognized his genius. The garrison, having seen Bohemond leave camp once again, they were repelled. "With the battle and booty won, we carried on posts as grim reminders of the plight of the besieged." Back at the camp, the crusaders held out against Winter subsided and seeing the Norman knights who once again believed that God was on their This triumphal march from the battle of the emissary at the camp. Indeed, representatives of the Fatimid Caliphate responding to the letters the crusaders wrote the political disarray in the Muslim world. Despite the religious fervor of the hosts, receiving gifts from the recently plundered Peter the Hermit was chosen to negotiate, believed that this army was essentially a The emissaries knew that those who took the made by Alexios, were paid generously by him Byzantine city to him. Over half of the initial force had already a hundred strategic locations were handed in the case of Baldwin, who had not yet made Shipments from the Empire continued to be but Taticius had left and there was no Byzantine so why would they deal with these mercenaries? The envoys stayed in the camp for over a month, Both sides agreed to neutrality, which prevented Muslim navy in the region. The coming of March signaled the end of the Many were slain, others died from cold and who couldn't endure the horrors of siege warfare However, those who remained were some of the in history, with exceptional training and Looking back on this period, Anselm of Ribemont, winter, wrote:"Growing stronger and stronger, with renewed courage." On the 4th of March, an English fleet arrived craftsmen, resources that would not just extend, Up until this point, the garrison was constantly information and resources through its southern To secure the heavy supplies from the relatively Bohemond and Raymond were chosen to go on and 500 infantry. Once again the all seeing citadel observed archers harass the crusader camp, while laying The return journey from the port took three trap was sprung. On the 7th of March the Seljuks screamed and line. To quote the chronicler: The Turks began to very loud cries, wheeling round our men, throwing them most brutally. Their attack was so fierce that our men began there was path. Those who could get away quickly escaped alive, The majority of the infantry was quickly broken, the lack of cohesion in the crusader ranks. Commanding the rearguard, Bohemond rushed rallied his troops from the camp and joined An intense battle ensued before the walls Siyan poured in more troops from the garrison. After months of staredowns and harassment, Despite the initial success, the garrison panic overwhelmed the Muslim forces. Our primary source wrote: "Those who did because of the great press of men and horses, devil and his imps; for we came after them, down, so that the water of that swift stream Turks, and if by chance any of them tried to reach the bank by swimming, he was stricken river bank." Yaghi Siyan played his hand, knowing he had and the element of surprise. Had his ambush succeeded, the crusaders would and the initiative from the recent victory. Multiple eye-witnesses who later wrote about 1500 men each, a number which reduced the The Christian clergy held services, commemorating survivors flaunted their newly gained Arabian At dawn, the Muslims from Antioch briefly in a nearby abandoned mosque, alongside cloaks, Once again contemporary sources report: "When that devil's chapel, and ordered the bodies the dead men dragged out of their graves. They threw all the corpses into a pit, and tents so that they could count the number on to four horses belonging to the ambassadors On the 10th of March, work began on a new itself, which was renamed La Mahomerie or provided cover against arrow fire and choked of Raymond. By the end of the month, the garrison launched strength, and nearly succeeded. However, heavy rain poured down, slowing them push them back, another divine sign that lifted of the other. In April the noose tightened after Tancred monastery near the St George Gate and within and Armenian trade caravan, taking grain, instead of the city. While not totally encircled the city now received Gate as tensions grew. Muslim sallies stopped, allowing the foraging became far more frequent. Then suddenly the crusaders received lavish new ruler of Edessa, Baldwin of Bouillon. During this period, emissaries were sent to Islamic world: Antioch's neighbor knew full not only unconcerned, but even treated the traveled the Levant. The only other significant event throughout Rainaild Porchet. Yaghi Siyan wanted to ransom the man and dragged if he renounced Christianity. Upon the man's refusal, the ruler of Antioch be rounded up, tied in a circle, and burned The screams echoed in the city and crusader there could be no middle ground. Despite this, around the end of May, the crusaders was ready to surrender. A few representatives were sent into the city, to be killed once inside. Whether this was a trap, or another discovered a possible key inside the city, one which Back in April, his men made contact with a who converted to Islam, responsible for one the mountain called the Tower of the Two Sisters. The proximity to Tancred's position, his the rest of the crusaders, allowed Bohemond caravans, which were selectively granted entry Without revealing his agent to the rest of and gave a speech: "Most gallant knights, in dire poverty and misery, and we do not If, therefore, you think it a good and proper others, on the condition that if he can capture by himself or by others, we will agree to Bohemond was a legend within the camp, but and refused his offer. There was no point to rush things, the garrison's well supplied and fed and from their perspective, victorious. But a storm had been brewing in the east for rallying the Muslim world and heading straight Yaghi Siyan's youngest son Muhammad had the caliph to send a relief force. The man he chose to lead this army, was none Turk who had spent the decade chasing down Harran, Nisibis and Mosul in the name of the The situation in Antioch provided him with well as carve out a holding, with which to After six month of careful planning, he had from Damascus, Harran, Horns, Mardin, Samosata The previous two relief forces were just over 35000 and 45000, and was highly motivated. It is easy to draw parallels between an equal to this Muslim force and as it made its way First, Kerbogha arrived at Edessa and besieged before moving on to Antioch. The crusaders sent out scouting parties to "They saw the [Muslim] army swarming everywhere the sands of the sea, marvelling at their them." As the scouts returned on the 28th May, reporting knew that their position was untenable. At this dire moment, Bohemond once against Raymond agreed, but adding the stipulation or with the aid of others, it would be granted would be returned to the emperor if Alexios At that very moment, the identity of Firuz the city. Due to fear that this scheme would also be prevent desertion, the council agreed to keep army a secret. Firuz smuggled his son out of the city to were decided. The next few days were tense as the crusaders wrong for the acting chairman of the council of being ill. Then on the evening of the 3rd of June, 700 to fool the defenders of the citadel. At roughly 3 am, the men returned to the slopes A sizeable contingent was under the command rest followed Bohemond. Everyone held their breath as they whistled Firuz throw down a thick rope, to which they Not knowing what expects them, the crusaders Would they be climbing to their death, much Would they end up in the flames like the prisoners? Or would they become the ones who broke this After being encouraged by Bohemond, one by their heavy equipment and rushing to the top, others. Everyone braced for disaster, but no watchmen Sixty men in total, including Bohemond reached the guards in the nearby three towers, as A postern gate was opened and the remaining Bohemond sounded his bugle and while Godfrey band of men made as much noise as possible Within minutes, the city erupted in chaos, months, were now finally inside. The Normans slashed at anything that moved was no resistance as everyone fled for their Dawn broke and the blood red banner of Bohemond The city was taken by less than a thousand opened the main gates and invited the crusaders None were spared that day, Christians, Muslims, Chronicler wrote: "All the streets of the that no one could endure to be there because the narrow paths of the city except over the The siege was over, but the attack on the of defenders with access to the Iron Gate. As for Yaghi Siyan, he managed to avoid the to be caught by some local Armenians who delivered However, the Latins soon discovered that the style of warfare and the supplies were dwindling. The very next day on June 5th 1098, they looked yet again utter ruin was avoided, but yet A knight named Roger of Barneville charged be lured by a feigned retreat and wiped out. The besiegers now became the besieged and attacked the only fortification the crusaders Wave after wave was repelled, but it was too and destroyed a few days later. Now both sides were fixated on the citadel: one of his own his men, showing his true intentions which could trickle into the city via the it, knowing that they would never be secure Outnumbered 2 to 1, the Latins made another from a southern postern gate and catching While initially successful, this attack led overstayed their welcome by looting the Muslim the tiny gate. Rather than risking a prolonged siege, where an offensive along the steep slope of the citadel into Antioch, through a single jagged This attack was coordinated with another assault to fight on two fronts. For two days the assault raged on from dawn this terror remarked that "a man with food time to drink". Endless waves of attackers were cut down, The cold winter now seemed like a distant the summer heat. Many, including well-known knights, began their number was so great that the rest called Most of them were rounded up and slain by In order to prevent the total collapse of to abandon the city and sealed the gates. The unrelenting assault, difficult conditions, the Crusaders had to face before. At one point, Bohemond who was in the thick and was narrowly saved by Robert of Flanders Italian knight known to us as Mad Hugh defended in the process. Four days into the endless onslaught Bohemond after finding out that some men were hiding As one might expect, the fire got out of hand On the night of 13/14 June at the brink of the dark sky, there are too many comets in to rally the soldiers one last time. This glimpse of hope gave them the strength This comet alongside the fire burning from pulled back after one of the bloodiest battles Kerbogha suffered terrible losses, but so out and completely surrounded the city. Now all they had to do was wait and watch Desperate and with no way out, Godfrey lost outside St Paul's gate. Meanwhile, Tancred went on a stealth mission and Henry of Esch repelled a whole contingent with just just two of his relatives, who gave Despite these brave attempts, the situation To fight off hunger, the crusaders boiled plants as their numbers continued to decline. But then on June 10th a peasant from Provance had been having visions, telling him that was now buried under the Basilica of St Peter. Many, including bishop Adhemar were skeptical in the vault of Constantinople during their Peter and commissioned twelve men who began Despite digging for an entire day, they found and began to pray. Then suddenly a small shard of metal was found It's difficult to imagine or describe the army, but even the modern scholars agree that morale. Later that year, the Latins would write to by [the Lance's] discovery and by so many had been discouraged and fearful beforehand, and encouraged each other". The next two weeks were uneventful as the be reinforced. Peter the Hermit was sent to negotiate with where 5, 10, 20 or 100 men on each side would atabeg simply laughed to his face and demanded if they wanted to live. The Latins were trapped and decided pursued They would forfeit their defensive positions head-on. Bohemond was elected as commander-in-chief days, shared bread and wine and marched out 1098. Bohemond divided his now nearly entirely infantry into four equal contingents: The Northern and Germans commanded by Godfrey and the Southern always held the reserve made up of Southern with 200 men to guard the city against the Heralds were deployed to ensure the cohesion led a squadron of archers which beat back Under the cover of Frankish arrows, each division and join in formation. The Muslim force was far larger, but spread it took some time for Kerbogha to receive his camp was 5 km to the north. Writing many years later, the Muslim chronicler that the following discussion between Kerbogha to Kerbogha: &quot;You should go up to the city it is easy to pick them off now that they He replied: &quot;No, wait until they have all Kerbogha knew that if he ordered a quick response, into the walls after a brief skirmish and But rather than taking his time, taking the the sluggish and hungry crusaders, he then Meanwhile, the Latins were busy fighting off the back, but the rearguard fought with such that the enemy was repelled and forced to host. Numerous tents were scattered around the siege to their steppe tactics, especially since to remember that, unlike the crusaders, their smashing against his own routed troops. He tried to rally his men and charged against infantry held. At close quarters the Muslims were no match for them to turn and flee. One Muslim chronicler reports: The Franks, advanced in battle order against the armies strength and numbers, and they broke the ranks The camp was overrun and ravaged, the citadel Every leader stuck to Bohemond's plan and as well as the desperation. The crusaders seemed to have been worlds away against all odds. The road to Jerusalem was open. The triumph at Antioch was nothing short of Heat, cold, disease, and desertion failed of princes decided to stop and wait out the The plan was to leave for Jerusalem on November the walls of the Holy City for over a year. Rather than consolidate the crusaders were claim over Antioch and the oaths to Alexios. On one hand, everyone swore to return every the princes agreed to cede the city to Bohemond To settle the differences, the crusaders sent Emperor. This brings us to one of the most important Alexios abandon the crusaders? Back in June 1098, Alexios was leading an when he met Stephen of Blois and a couple There the crusader told Alexios that the situation cause. Latin sources denounce both men as cowards relationship soured, but the reality is as Alexios did turn back, but he never intended strain it would entail on a large army, not absence could lead to rebellion or even a deal with on multiple occasions. Furthermore, he also received news that the threat he took seriously, since he evacuated from the nomads. Indeed, an attack was attempted on Paipert, prowess of the semi-autonomous leader of Trebizond So even when Hugh met Alexios in Constantinople little more than the continuous naval supply And yet the reports that Bohemond was serious the Byzantine court, ending their goodwill the crusade. Rather than return to his fellow crusaders, by his countrymen who saw him as a coward He would later join the crusade of 1101 and we will tell in the future. Back in Antioch, the lines were drawn and Bohemond, secretly ceding their portions of Raymond of Toulouse positioned himself as the lifeline to the coast, as well as the He even attempted to take the citadel for proclaimed that he would only surrender to Despite being the most stubborn of the princes, Raymond insisted that the words he uttered, be discarded and he was willing to sabotage get what he wanted. In the meantime, Bohemond was busy. He restored the cathedral of St. Peter, allowed duties and signed a deal with Genoa on July This surviving document tells us so much about Genoa received thirty houses near the church Bohemond was not mentioned as the owner of the rest of the crusaders and the Empire was The Latins were at an impasse and both parties the other from winning, while the lesser knights Antioch was now friendly territory and Byzantine stuck, only a three-week march away from their The leaders made an extraordinary announcement, change their liege lord. This was a game changer and it is important forget that the medieval world was one bound nationalities. There was a strict social structure and hierarchy, with liege lords big and small on top, and Additionally, there was a substantial number What we have seen so far was half a dozen in reality, there were hundreds of them, to There was a complicated system of oaths of not always based on dynastic ties. For example, Bohemond's nephew Tancred was of his own. So why did the crusade leaders decide to unravel On one hand, some were wealthier than others the start of this journey, or because they But more importantly, the mounting death toll disease had killed an enormous number of the There were many followers, who lost their so all traditional ties were now broken and but even more, decided to join the firmly Its ruler Baldwin used this manpower to capture What the crusaders didn't anticipate however, to carve out domains of their own, such as attacked the fertile Jabal as-Summaq plateau. He briefly besieged a castle called Tel-Mannas him inside and accepted his lordship. A week later, he attacked an unnamed castle the People Crusade, by slaughtering thousands From there he left overconfident and low on an-Numan. As the garrison saw his contingent, they sallied of the expedition. There were probably many small-scale adventures Tensions were rising, manpower and supplies Empire was severed, but the crusade could Adhemar was there to moderate and lead the until he died on the 1st of August. At the time, most of the princes left the behind only the poorest crusaders and the As usual, the charitable defender of the less epidemic swept through the city. Some modern estimates indicate that over 100 of a few months, with the spiritual leader succumb. At the exact same time, 1500 fresh German only to be annihilated by the deadly disease. The consequences this had on morale were devastating. As historian Jay Rubenstein puts it: "If through the desert, Adhemar had been their But before his body was even cold, politics who received visions, that led to the "discovery" to become a prophet. Within forty-eight hours of the bishop's death receive his first vision of Adhemar's spirit. According to him, they had a conversation, the authenticity of the Holy Lance led him "'Following the uncovering of the Lance, whipped most severely, and as you can see Bohemond said that he would carry my body For his sake, he shall not move my corpse blood of Christ, with whom I am now associated, But if he doubts my statements, let him open face". No one was more respected than Adhemar, who was found and now Peter used his spirit to basically appointing himself as the new spiritual In another claimed vision of Saint Andrew, not be given to Alexios or Raymond and that Despite being a part of Raymond's retinue, his own and answered to no one, which gained The third major leader of the crusade, Godfrey His wealth attracted many Latins and his brother Around this time Omar, a local Muslim ruler against Ridwan of Aleppo, giving his own son When Godfrey finally agreed, the news was Godfrey duly led a relief force towards Azaz Raymond rushed to try to get a slice of the Godfrey received a richly decorated armor, lot of prestige. Bohemond on the other hand was busy in Armenian a Norman foothold. Bohemond was the most charismatic and won what he had achieved and would go no further, the crusade leadership. Despite his old age and rivalry with most the Holy Lance and the largest contingent, And so the crusaders turned to the man who On 11 September, a joint letter was sent to and imploring the Pope to lead the crusade and by your sermons have caused us all to to us and urge whomsoever you can to come For it was here [in Antioch] that the name what in the world would seem more proper than Christian religion, should come to the principal finish the war, which is your project, in with us the pilgrimage that you inaugurated Similarly to Alexios, Urban II was busy with the journey to the Holy Lands. With the ongoing leadership struggle, the to Jerusalem - November 1st arrived, yet no continued to argue. Disgruntled gossip turned into rebellion as that our leaders, because of cowardice or to lead us to Jerusalem ... If the Antiochene walls; then the era of princely goodwill existing destruction. Otherwise, we should turn back to our lands The winter months continued the drag on and rivalry with Bohemond. His main goal was building a platform, centered support, but he soon realized that the only confront him with more than just words. The prince then decided that he would indirectly base around Antioch and starve out Bohemond Raymond already controlled the way to the by taking the city and succeeding where his And so, after their greatest triumph, where in the Levant, defeating a capable garrison crusaders were now on the brink of self-destruction. It is easy to consider them as foolish and a lot more complicated. This was an expedition featuring dozens of some of the harshest conditions and fought Roman Empire. The plot twists and challenges, no doubt changed rebellion of many of their followers, shows the entire expedition. These were not one note characters and now would collide and pull them in three separate Until this point, Bohemond was the most battle-tested in Antioch as its ruler. But Raymond of Toulouse was so determined campaign aimed at isolating and starving the He turned his gaze to the fertile Jabal as-Summaq and capturing thousands in the process. The Provencals continued to believe that all but, for the time being, they took control just so that their rivals didn't get their On November 23, 1098, Raymond was joined by Marrat an-Numan, a strategic and wealthy settlement a few months prior. Bohemond recognized the danger of the Provencal the city by the end of November. The city had none of the geographical advantages wall surrounded by a dry moat. One Provencal eyewitness recalled, 'the haughty army, and desecrated crosses fixed to their We were so enraged by the natives that we This, however, proved to be a rash decision, that didn't even reach the top of the wall. The three leaders then decided to encircle of the first week, their supplies were dwindling. One Latin eyewitness remarked: 'It grieves could see more than ten thousand men scattered trying to find grains of wheat, barley, beans The crusaders sent terms, but after they were They began filling the moat in multiple sections This was done under a constant barrage of Trees were cut down and larger, sturdier ladders The four-wheeled siege engine was dragged the defenders bombarded it with catapults As knights began to climb the siege tower of town, another Provencal detachment climbed guarded, as the garrison focused on the main Their success, however, nearly turned into "The ladder broke at once under the weight he and some others succeeded in reaching the Those who had gone up cleared a space around Others found a fresh ladder and put it up went up it at once, but the Saracens attacked ground, loosing arrows and fighting hand to off". The fierce fighting went on for hours as the intensity was too much for some, who jumped Amidst the panic, as crusaders were pouring another section of the wall, completely breaking However, the fighting dragged on for hours some of the towers and parts of the city under The logical thing to do was to await the dawn, in the dark. The leaders agreed to wait and the knights with adrenaline, couldn't stop now. Chronicler wrote: 'Because starvation had to the besieged in the shades of the night. Thereby the poor gained the lion's share of who awaited morning to enter, found poor pickings. In the morning, Bohemond rounded up the city's of their possessions, while the brutal sack Eyewitnesses report: Our men all entered the goods he found in houses or cellars, and when woman, whom they met in any place whatsoever. No corner of the town was clear of Saracen streets except by treading on their dead bodies. According to some Islamic chroniclers, this crusade, including Antioch and Jerusalem. Rumors began to spread that some locals escaped the crusaders smoked them out and tortured location of valuables, or threw themselves Amidst the screams, the princes were at it Raymond did most of the heavy lifting in capturing his men to occupy as many towers on the wall Apparently, Bohemond stated bluntly: I shall the Antiochene towers to me. Naturally, Raymond refused, and now each leader As the turbulent 1098 came to a close, the once again started discussing open mutiny. Raymond declared that he would be ready to support for Bohemond, who refused to go further, With resentment growing and his lines stretched the city and returned for Antioch, while Raymond Rugia, his own domain. The first order of business was a last-ditch of course failed, but then after taking the allegiance of his fellow princes. According to his chaplain Raymond offered each, 6,000 to Robert of Flanders, 5,000 to who refused. To Bohemonds surprise, his nephew Tancred Robert of Normandy. Robert of Flanders and Godfrey of Bouillon The crusade was now broken into 3 different Raymond managed to attract notable leaders first week of January 1099, disaster struck Back in Marrat, starvation gripped the city paint the desperation and pain the Franks Without guidance from their leaders, some At first, the Muslim corpses were ripped open, their entrails, but then men began carving it, in some cases raw. While some partook in this act, others looked This was an era of brutality and savagery, code of war that allowed enslaving the entire massacres and sacks were the norm, but even upon by disgust, by every single chronicler This act was so disgusting, that it strangely crusaders. Around the 7th of January, Marrat itself declared Raymond intended to hold the settlement, so stone. This made the count of Toulouse finally abandon he disavowed his territorial ambitions and To show how committed he was, Raymond abandoned he walked barefooted in a simple robe, accompanied Once again, in an interesting plot twist, followers, and morale was significantly boosted. But even if his popularity made him the de-facto of Flanders, still remained in Antioch with As his army moved towards Jerusalem, another The tale of cannibalism spread throughout tales from the siege of Antioch, many emirs be submitted to cannibalism or worse. One by one they sent delegations, gifts, and Banu Munqidh, ruler of Shaizar was the first as well as cheap food and horses. Once again we see that, when approached in to bend their religious convictions. Their military capabilities, physical strength an important milestone, which prevented the Next, the Franks found the town of Raphania Raymond took his time and enjoyed his blessings, Robert of Normandy led the vanguard, as it On the 28th of January, the garrison of Hisn placed exactly where Krak des Chevaliers stands killed the leader of the crusade, but the forcing them to leave the next day. The fact that this strategic fortress fell Homs and Tripoli quickly confirmed their truce In reality, Raymond led no more than 5000 and piety, he would inspire the rest to join neared Tripoli, there was no sign of the rest Frustrated and confused, Raymond decided to 14 February 1099, not because the fortress the emir of Tripoli offered him a large reward, Not to mention that they had nothing better one of the worst mistakes of the expedition. One eyewitness attests: 'This castle was full Arabs, and Paulicians, who had made its fortifications bravely. After encircling the city, Raymond dispatched a small force, aimed at taking the port town But after they discovered, how well defended Under the cover of darkness, they lit many The defenders gazed upon the numerous lights before the dawn. In the morning, the crusaders took the city and provisions The trickery worked and it surrender. The crusaders now had access to naval supplies, Back at the siege camp, the crusaders struggled defenders, who used projectile weapons to Two chronolicers: Pons of Balazun and Anselm and perished. The siege dragged on for three long months, embassy from the vizier of Fatimid Egypt al-Afdal Following Kerbogha's defeat at Antioch the the Seljuks in 1098 and soon after they were that the crusaders were now off his leash, Regional lords trembled at the sight of the their bluff. His offer was simple: the division of all Raymond loved the idea, but upon requesting The Fatimids were only interested in a truce, safe passage to the holy site. In an instant, the two natural allies became had a long road up ahead. Back at Antioch, Bohemond expelled all Provencal the master of the city. But then, an emissary from Raymond arrived, Damascus, which would then march on his position Despite their differences, Godfrey and Robert they quickly left for Arqa. Little did they ploy to get them to join him, either way it The crusade was still missing Bohemond, but but Raymond spent too long and lost too many on. The emir of Tripoli offered 15 000 gold pieces, tribute, while the emir of Jabala sent 5 000 wine. With so much wealth pouring in, some wondered For the first time in a while, the crusaders golden goose, considering the misery many But as time passed on, some lesser crusaders messengers, to extract tribute of their own, starting to wonder, when this was going to In response the crusaders decided to launch hundreds and choking the aqueduct with corpses. And then on 5th April 1099, Peter Bartholomew this time featuring Christ, St Peter and St Raymond of Toulouse was to call forth the formations. Peter would then 'miraculously' find the crusaders The Latins in the first three ranks would were those polluted by sins ranging from pride Peter actually came forward saying that God execution of any crusader found wanting in The camp was furious, the upstart prophet was called into question, including the Holy He was then publicly challenged and had to Ordeals were a rare, last resort measure in would have to hold a red hot iron or place If they were innocent God would protect them days later. However, Peter was fully convinced in his I beg that you set ablaze a fire, and I shall in my hands; and if it is really the Lord's But if it is a false Lance, I shall be consumed After four days of fasting, the self-proclaimed of thousands, bearing the Holy Lance. A group of bishops made three circles around God spoke to this man, face to face, and if he kept vigil, let him walk through the fire If it was a lie, let him burn, along with Ironically one of them was Peter the Hermit. Olive branches stacked four feet high, thirteen an inferno. A few arrows were fired at the rising pyre, The crowd gasped as they watched the man walk side, his body seared from the blaze, flesh After enduring twelve days of excruciating of the trial. The Holy Lance was now nothing more than a was severely damaged, he tried to save face Adhemar's piece of the True Cross, replacing the people had lost interest. Around this time, Tancred, switched his allegiance was finally time for Raymond to admit defeat The count managed to bring the princes together, Jerusalem, he knew that he failed at both a principality of his own. After the failure at Arqa, the crusaders regrouped not distract themselves with any other side The princes consulted local Christians and route towards the city until finally agreeing Tripoli, who led them across the coastal road. On one hand, this was the quickest road, which also had several narrow passes, ideal spots On their first day, the crusaders marched a place called Raz ez-Chekka - the Face of forces. On the 19th of May 1099, they entered Palestine On the next day, upon reaching Sidon, their before being beaten back by a group of mounted In fact, the local wildlife was so far the of them succumbed to the venomous bites of During the following nights, the crusaders from the vipers. A new strategy was adopted, where after several rest for a day. Tyre, Acre, and Caesarea also showed no signs The cannibalistic and savage nature of the the crusaders didn't want to repeat the On May 30th, the Latins sent a scouting party Jerusalem - Ramleh, only to discover that This town had both strategic and spiritual St George, a patron who the crusaders hoped It is here that we truly see how far Raymond of Rouen to garrison and hold the city. The power and influence within the crusade lords to the northern. On June 6th the resupplied army set off toward Christians from Bethlehem who begged them Tancred was dispatched leading a hundred knights, birthplace after the locals welcomed him with A huge mass was held at the Church of Nativity, raised his banner on one of the most important Upon his return on June 7th, he witnessed who traveled 1000s kilometers, now standing The Fatimids ineptitude allowed the crusaders at the cost of having no line of communication The crusaders were well aware that they had back. While many believed in the force of divine success could only be achieved by throwing city. There would be no protracted siege like in only be death or glory. Between them and the finish line stood massive high, and three meters thick. To the east and west, the Judean hills acted The ground to the north and southwest was by the secondary outer wall and several dry There were five major gates, each guarded In the northwest corner stood a stronghold along the western wall stood the Tower of with molten lead. It took no more than 15 men to turn that giant The Fatimid Caliphate had just regained Jerusalem the leadership of vizir Al-Afdal Shahanshah, Byzantine mercenaries, who were easy to control. As for the garrison in Jerusalem, it was commanded ad-Daulah. We don't know the exact number of troops, contingent of footmen and archers, reinforced He expelled most of the Christians living while filling all the cisterns in the city. The circumstances were dire, but the crusader One Latin chronicler recounts the atmosphere of Olives: 'He turned his gaze towards the by the Valley of Josaphat, [and saw] the Lord's Drawing a great sigh, he sat down on the ground, and then, just for the chance to press his The Latins had 1300 knights and 12 000 soldiers, cohesion to hold them together. There were now two remaining factions. The larger one led by Godfrey of Bouillon, besiege the city from the north between the while Raymond of Toulouse and the southern before relocating in front of the Zion gate. Godfrey was not the definitive leader of the by one of his clerics to solidify that position: which served as a standard, boosting the morale This new aura of adoration attracted Robert men out of the Provencal camp and moved up Raymond even saw some of his own Provencal Apart from not knowing if and when the Fatimids with the lack of woodlands around Jerusalem, But then one day as Tancred made his way into dysentery and found a small stack of wood Once a few scaling ladders were constructed on June 13th. The climb up the wall was extremely difficult On top of the battlements, some defenders to cut down the attackers, severing limbs Both sides sustained heavy casualties, but This defeat convinced the Franks to change to avoid further assaults until the necessary the materials and craftsmen needed for siege Sitting in the middle of the arid hills under around them, the crusaders began to suffer One chronicler recounted: "We suffered so of oxen and buffaloes, and we used to carry miles. We drank the water from these vessels although bread we endured great distress and affliction wait for our men by every spring and pool, Some of the marsh water was so contaminated causing a painful death. But right when all hope seemed lost, on June at Jaffa. Unbeknownst to the Franks, the port that they A messenger was sent out and arrived at the The Latins then dispatched three squadrons: and 50 infantry, 50 knights under Raymond an unspecified, but similar number of men. On their way to Jaffa, the first group encountered them. Just when the crusaders were about to flee, the Fatimids back. The battered crusaders arrived at Jaffa and with bread, wine, and fish. The celebration lasted all through the night the Latins woke up and saw a large Fatimid The port was overrun before everyone made Still, the majority made their way back to In the following days, some of the Christians and advised them on where to find wood. The leadership sent out squads who cut it the construction of several siege engines. The construction itself led to yet another defected from the Provencal to the northern Morale was so low that Raymond had to pay stay, but tensions only rose. One of the main arguments that followed the be the lord of Jerusalem. The princes disagreed on who to crown as king, sinful to raise a king over God's patrimony, by the Church and protected by a Holy Order. Chronicler and crusader Raymond of Aguilers called a meeting because of the general quarrels Tancred had seized Bethlehem. There he had flown his banner over the church possession. The assembly also posed the question of the of Jerusalem in case God gave it to us." In between devotion and desperation, the hard of the finest siege towers of the time. Each one was three stories tall, with wheeled protecting its passengers from projectiles. The towers were covered by interwoven branches Godfrey's tower was even designed in a way repositioned on another section of the wall Additionally, the crusaders built a huge ram numerous scaling ladders, and a few protective Meanwhile, Raymond ordered his soldiers to rocks, a process which took three days and On the other side of the walls, the Fatimids of the walls the crusaders intended to hit The barrage slowed down the Frankish progress, noble Muslim captive was beheaded in full Crusaders also caught a spy relaying messages After questioning the man was catapulted to piled in the moat. The garrison responded to this psychological which they then spat and urinated on. A rumor began to spread that this was an indication Sepulchre. In early July one of the clergymen reported allegedly instructed the crusaders to lead with bare feet . As the huge mass of people were bombarded by the garrison, which resulted by arrow fire. Desperate, yet full of bloodlust and determination assault. On July 14th, as daylight broke across a reddened the beginning of the attack. To the dismay of the Muslim garrison, Godfrey in different locations for the past 3 weeks, During the night before the assault, he had which was one of the greatest technological On the northern front, for hours many brave inch by inch, until they used it to tear down The defenders then poured fire kindled from The Latins frantically threw the remainder but only charred beams remained. But then in an almost comical reversal, the so it would clear the path through the breach. Seeing this, now the Fatimids started throwing was gone and the breach was now fully open. On the southern side, Raymond had far less was positioned in his location. That included nine out of the 14 catapults Big rocks were hurled at them, alongside hails As the siege engine came closer to the walls, the barrage after being wrapped in pitch, Many of the projectiles had nails attached struck. The fortifications, ditches and defenders tower had to eventually pull back. By the end of the first day the news was mixed, had just as much determination as the crusaders On the morning of 15th July, the onslaught Raymond's tower approached the wall again of catapult fire until it started to burn The other tower, bearing the golden cross of Bouillon himself, moved slowly towards away from collapsing on top of the crusaders The garrison fired upon them with slings, grease, setting some of the men and portions Indeed Godfrey nearly met his death when a soldier standing next to him. The duke then grabbed his crossbow and fired The tower managed to prevail, thanks to how was repelled by the animal hides, allowing Once they got close and had the height advantage, the wall from enemy archers. They were no more than a meter away, when for only the direst of circumstances: Greek Several flaming projectiles were hurled at be put out by water, but when the commander he also gave the crusaders the antidote. Prior to the battle, the princes were given be neutralized by vinegar, so they made sure was now poured over the Fatimid secret weapon. Either due to a combustible substance being guard tower was lit ablaze and produced so it. In this crucial moment, Godfrey ordered his that held the tower together, unleashing a walls of Jerusalem at midday. Ludolf of Tournai and his brother Engelbert city, rushing forward and establishing a foothold. Shields were raised and in the commotion, ladder and attached it to the same section At that point, the Muslim garrison panicked their life: the crusader reputation preceded the entire city to fall. News spread to the southern front where Muslim jumping from the walls to their death and the city. The First crusade had achieved its goal, but to do was unspeakable. This was the greatest victory in the history the most atrocious acts committed in the medieval Eyewitness Raymond of Aguilers reported: "With see marvellous works. Some of the pagans were mercifully beheaded, and yet others, tortured for a long time, Piles of heads, hands, and feet lay in the running to and fro over corpses." Many Muslims fled to the Temple Mount, while gave a group of men stranded on the roof of But once discovered by other crusaders, none To quote Raymond: "After a very great and fell in that same place, they put to the sword about the quarters of the city, fleeing in death: they were stabbing women who had fled by the soles of their feet from their mothers' the walls and breaking their necks; they were them down with stones; they were sparing absolutely The only Muslim inhabitants who survived seemed cavalry, who locked themselves in the Tower As for the spoils, the chaos and emotions After this great massacre, they entered the found in them. It was done systematically so that whoever rich or poor, was not to be harmed by anyone He was to have and to hold the house or palace his own. Since they mutually agreed to observe this Tancred personally entered the Temple of Solomon he could carry. Once again, after discovering that many inhabitants began to disembowel the thousands of bodies With their hands still laden with gold and sight of the Holy Sepulchre, singing songs This is the point where most narratives re-told takes couldn't ignore the severity of the On the next day, a few remaining Muslims were out of the city, while commander Iftikhar passed towards the nearest Fatimid stronghold: the last battle of the first crusade. On July 17th, as bodies still littered the discussed urgent matters such as how to dispose and pilgrims as well as how to prepare for But the biggest agenda in the meeting was From the very start, this was what Raymond but his lackluster performance in the siege, relics, and old age, put him in a bad position. Godfrey of Bouillon had a much better claim, that a layman could rule the city of God. Raymond of Aguilers recounts: " About this of the army were quarreling with each other. There was dissatisfaction because Tancred standard over the church of the Nativity. An effort was also made to elect one of the The bishops and clergy replied &quot;You ought and was crowned." But with the last patriarch Simon, only recently 5 days later, a compromise was reached: Godfrey as Advocatus Sancti Sepulchri or Advocate distinguish him more as a protector, subordinate Raymond was furious and even refused to vacate respect the rest of the crusaders had for Even his own followers began leaving him in journey home. To ease the tension a little, Raymond gave the recently elevated bishop of Albara, who Raymond and opening the citadel to Godfrey. Raymond's dreams had been crushed, so he While he was away, the new patriarch of Jerusalem of bishop Adhemar, on August 1st, 1099, a his place. This was an open attack against the rights in the city for a long time. The new patriarch left the Orthodox Christians Copts, Nestorians, and Jacobites, who were Holy Sepulchre. To strengthen his position, Arnulf then started silver and golden crucifix believed to contain According to one source, the patriarch tortured When we examine how fragile the cohesion of is easy to underestimate them at every turn, did, including the Fatimids. But vizier al-Afdal was not going to let this Ever since 1094, he was the de-facto ruler by dealing with the newcomers. Even before the city fell, a powerful force History was now repeating itself, but this disaster of Antioch and rode out to meet the Originally the crusader force had more numbers 000 people, if we count the People's Crusade, It was Tancred who managed to capture a few coastline, who discovered that a large army Raymond and Robert of Normandy however refused the existence of said army. And so with a combination of bravado and hubris, forces, supported only by Robert of Flanders. The soldiers left barefoot, accompanied by cross, in what must have looked like a pitiful The next day, under the pressure of their and assembled with the rest at Ramleh. Meanwhile Jerusalem was left un-garrisoned, saying prayers, hoping for a Christian victory. This all-out strategy, once again meant that was guaranteed to fall, making the entire With all the leaders together again, the morale August 1200 knights and 9000 footmen made Late in the day they captured another group the Fatimid army. 20000 Muslims, with a core of heavy cavalry, Ethiopians wielding giant flails able to kill camped just outside of Ascalon and were going Godfrey realized he was outnumbered, so he After a short nearly sleepless night a few south before the dawn of 12th of August with and the two Roberts and Tancred in the center. The camp was not too difficult to locate on goats and camels and once in sight the crusaders The three groups charged at a moderate pace, Al-Afdal prioritized mobility and failed to most of his troops were still sleeping in Robert of Normandy headed directly towards coat of arms and most of his possessions. Galloping alongside the coastline, Raymond them, while others rushed towards Ascalon, formed at the gates. That initial shock totally broke the Egyptians nothing more than a rout. One eye-witness recalled: "In their great only to plunge from boughs like falling birds killed them with lances. Later the Christians uselessly decapitated Other infidels threw themselves to the ground Then our men cut them to pieces as one slaughters Al-Afdal managed to escape into Ascalon and easy it was for the crusaders to destroy his Not only that, but they captured a wide array featured: 'gold, silver, long cloaks, other .. . helmets decorated with gold, the finest much else'. His sword alone was later sold for sixty gold The bounty was so vast, that the army couldn't was left behind. As for Ascalon, the port city refused to surrender to have kept his promise of safe passage during Godfrey was insulted and didn't intend to close to Jerusalem, so the Franks simply left. The strange combination of great martial success, Because of this decision, the powerful Fatimid than half a century and Al-Afdal would use launch annual attacks. Regardless, the mission was complete, and and tough people in history, with an adventurous rival that of Alexander. As summer passed, many of them were ready of 1099, Robert of Normandy and Robert of sailed away. Raymond lingered, and Godfrey was left with News of Jerusalem spread, but Pope Urban II weeks before the news of his success could For the mighty warriors who returned, their time they returned home. They were exhausted, sick, and broke, but Robert of Flanders, now known as the Jerusalemite, state. While he was away, emperor Henry IV, had attempted He then pushed him back twice. Another war was waged against Normandy, which from his horse in battle. The crusader was trampled to death, but his of Christ inspired many future crusaders. A man who met the Byzantine Emperor, fought rescued Jerusalem, defeated the Holy Roman It is no wonder that Flanders, which was one went on to become one of the biggest contributors Either by land or sea, recruits from this that would follow. As for Robert of Normandy, his fate was considerably To leave for the crusade, he temporarily sold To buy it back, he had to resort to marrying Henry had taken the crown of England for himself, Robert landed in England and started an invasion, Lacking popular support, he was defeated and He would spend the next 28 years being moved Tower of London, until his death in 1134. In his cell, he reminisced how he regretted of reverence, but out of fear of the work Many historians tend to gloss over these events, and the supporters needed to take the English In fact, he and Geoffrey Plantagenet are the English kings, and had he done so, the history be entirely different. Then there was Gaston of Bearn, the mastermind He went on to assist the Reconquista in fighting Other warriors gave up combat for good and in monasteries they founded. A man named Gulpher of Lastours, who was the to have come back with a pet lion. Peter the Hermit also made it home, with a He founded a religious cult in France, which their journey to Jerusalem, enter the holy a souvenir to bring back home. Other examples of such tourism included palm beard, a whole ball of the Virgin Mary's Holy Lances. This would set the trend, and modern archaeologists to contain holy water or oil, called ampullae. They would be worn around the necks of those they could show off back home. The reverence and stories that came out of of the Hajj. There were also those who deserted the crusade, the scorn of Latin society. Among them were Hugh of Vermandois and Stephen under the threat of excommunication. The overwhelming public shame was so powerful armies in the Holy land, joined by numerous fame, or an artifact. However this time, the crusade was proclaimed and Italians. This campaign is now known as the crusade highlighting two problems you must have already Wasn't the first crusade over and why wasn't Over the course of this long story, we went tackle the biggest one of them all. For many past and present historians, the end this chapter. The crusade was a miraculous success, Jerusalem home. This simplistic notion, somewhat cultivated that not a single of the main characters was Raymond was scorned for being overlooked as the capture of Jerusalem and expected the be fulfilled, and Godfrey, who was just crowned, squabbling with everyone around him continued, and the Seljuk sultan of Rum Kilij Arslan But arguably, the biggest oversight of so of the west and the fate of the expedition why it is an often forgotten chapter of the Following the return of many crusaders who now wanted to make their pilgrimage to the The archbishop of Pisa Dagobert was particularly to expand its influence to the east, a move After being appointed legate by the new Pope ships in the autumn of 1099, stopping and and Kefalonia along the way. Alexios rolled his eyes once more as he had his fleet. After a few skirmishes, the Pisans decided and sailed east, eventually landing in Antioch. There Dagobert gained the support of Bohemond days before Christmas in 1099. Almost immediately, the archbishop was accepted of Jerusalem, replacing Arnulf of Chocques. This strong connection to Pisa meant that and supply with the west and no longer had It was in the year 1100 that the new Outremer as they were actually called at the time, In May, Raymond abandoned the Levant and sailed Alexios for aid to carve out a state of his Similarly, after an Armenian soldier of fortune, the Turkic Danishmendids, Bohemond also received Using the overall chaos, Alexios began to fulfill his oath and relinquish Antioch, and to blows. As Bohemond wasn't budging, Alexios acted critical Cilician ports: Seleucia and Corycos, In response, Bohemond replaced the Greek patriarch so far been a cold war quickly turned hot. Bohemond needed to expand his base, and so He took his army and made his way toward the Unfortunately for him, however, his luck had The steppe riders, who had a profound knowledge lured him into a trap and captured him at His followers were killed, and he was moved Alexios offered to pay 260 000 gold pieces 100 000 they initially asked for, but the to the Byzantines as their neighbors. In his absence, Tancred took charge of Antioch of opportunists. Alexios surrounded the city on either side in the south. While the Eastern Romans were squeezing Antioch, Jerusalem to the south, making Acre, Jaffa, then he suddenly fell ill. After fighting off the sickness for a month ending his almost one-year reign. This nearly caused a civil war, as his supporters before the Pisan patriarch could fulfill his Instead the crown passed to his brother the of his chronicler: "grieved somewhat over over his inheritance&quot;. Baldwin of Le Bourcq was selected as the successor On the journey from Edessa to Jerusalem, Baldwin who wanted him to take over the city, which As he made his way south he was warned by prepared an ambush for him. With the crucial piece of intel, Baldwin located He then chased Daqaq to Damascus and demanded shut. After arriving in Jerusalem on November 9th envisions of Ascalon and launched an expedition of bandits hiding there. Dagobert of Pisa was forced to accept defeat The nearby towns made sure to send the new good will. Back in the west, the immense efforts to rally results. The Pope purposefully targeted regions that which led to a multicultural and very diverse Much like the original members, these were on their own. They spoke different languages and had different goal. Surprisingly that was not the liberation of for the most part. Instead, many set out on the long journey Others wanted to repair their reputation, during the siege of Antioch, as well as the The largest contingent, however, was from archbishop of Milan, Anselm, who Pope Paschal As he made his way through the highly populated "Ultreja! Ultreja!" - a common pilgrim salute, roughly translating He was joined by Milo of Montlhery, Guy II of Parma and the bishops of Pavia, Piacenza While the contemporary figure of 50 000 men 10 000 strong and filled with powerful knights. In late spring 1101, the Lombards peacefully and reached the lands of Alexios, who gave While some sources report that order was quickly others paint a far more dire situation, where and killed Alexios's pet lion. One way or another, the pilgrims were ferried point of Nicomedia. There they met a character we are all too The count failed to secure a piece of the camp with the few men he had left and offered now firmly aligned with those of Alexios, The old Frank had already made the journey a guide. To his dismay, the majority of the Lombards joining the rest of the crusaders and refused more direct approach to Neocaesarea, one that territory. While the men argued over their route and led by Stephen of Blois, who was accompanied Stephen and Joscelin of Courtney. Many of the Franks, such as the Viscount of in order to be sufficiently provisioned with everything they had on this mission. Once again, we are uncertain about the exact 10 000. Smaller groups from all over Europe arrived Holy Roman Empire Conrad, leading a large Overall the army consisted of around 25 000 led by Raymond. Spirits were high, and with each new recruit, were getting louder. On June 3rd, 1101, Raymond finally relented. By late June, the army arrived at Ancyra, and returned to Alexios. Without even noticing it, the giant and sluggish following their every move, as years after for revenge. The sultan was busy ever since his defeat singular purpose of repelling any future Latin He knew the land well and was well aware not Wells and cisterns were destroyed, towns ahead were launched at the back of the columns, that, there was no attempt at a pitched battle. The westerners now made their way towards to the territory of the Danishmends, who, Arslan's alliance. By August, their supplies were exhausted, morale. As the crusaders approached Mersivan, they in the vanguard, followed by Raymond, his behind them and lastly, the French. The horses were weak, the equipment heavy, crawl, with communication between the different and language barriers. Meanwhile, the nomadic warriors worked as childhood. On the first day of this drawn-out engagement, surrounded them after a feigned retreat maneuver. On the next day, Conrad led the German force Unable to return to the main host, the survivors the rest began to fear that Conrad betrayed The third day was uneventful but added to the crusader camp by this point. On the fourth day, the crusaders attempted heavy losses on their Seljuk enemies at a But then, on the next day, Kilij Arslan was princes. The Lombard vanguard was decimated, sending Before long, the French and German contingents Raymond fell and was left trapped, but Conrad made their way toward the coast. The camp was captured, where the nomads found enslaved. Those who didn't possess horses, particularly as they were hunted down like wild game by Raymond, Stephen of Blois and Stephen of Burgundy Anselm and Odo both died from the injuries Antioch was now in the hands of Kilij Arslan. While one army was ambushed and annihilated, groups arrived. William Duke of Aquitaine, Welf Duke of Bavaria, prince Hugh of Vermandois assembled, were Together they had over 30 000 troops. The count of Nevers was in no mood for waiting knowing there were others on their way to headed towards Bohemond. He came very close to the first army on numerous At one point, he managed to lay siege to the the sultan was distracted, but to no avail. Soon after he gathered the spoils from Mersivan, threat and ambushed William at Heraclea Cybistra. The Seljuks anticipated the move toward the the right place at the right time. Previously we saw how a force of 10 000 crusaders fortified cities, but here at the plateau more than a footnote in history. Only count William and a few dozen knights Unfortunately, the details of the battle are survivors. Lastly, there was the third group led by William Hugh of Lusignan and the first woman to lead Ida. Together they made their journey across Anatolia, Thanks to the advice of Hugh, this army did but regardless it was still mid-summer and the crusaders, stalled their progress. Seljuk skirmishes and supply issues broke like lambs to the slaughter. Once on the horizon, the city looked like could restock and drink fresh water, but as and dead bodies of the previous group. There was not much of a battle to speak of, demoralized and not suited for the warfare Many, including Hugh and Welf, died, while According to a later false legend, she then of Zengi, the future founder of the Zengid While that claim was completely false, we had on the minds of the western world. When they set out to the east, the Lombards but in the end this calamity reshaped the In terms of numbers the crusade of 1101 is behind the first and third crusade. One can only imagine how big of an impact depleted crusader states, who were in dire Bavaria, Nevers, Lombardy and Aquitaine could lineage and continue to be active contributors Arslan turned the tables. However, this failure didn't dissuade all of these expeditions only re-affirmed the It also highlighted the dangers of Anatolia the merchant republics of Italy were more The crusader states themselves were never Instead, they were referred to as Outre-mer, But if this expedition, which was clearly impact on the world, why was it ignored by Hopefully, by now, you can realize that this as an attempt to simplify the incredible story Not to mention that going forward, historians numbering some crusades, even if they had other very important crusades, such as the numbered ones. The campaign started by what is now known the most successful crusade in history, so by its greatest failure. In reality, both of them and the upcoming which we will attempt to shed some light on. Raymond of Toulouse was chosen by Alexios and ultimately managed to save his life and From there he sailed to Antioch seeking to by Tancred. Bohemond's nephew only agreed to let the attempt to conquer any land in the Levant. Raymond then proceeded to conquer a piece he did do it on Alexios's behalf. Yes, this is not a typo, Raymond who was the knee to Alexios in 1095 was now laying siege blockaded the city. The defenses of Tripoli were formidable, so it, called Mons Peregrinos or Pilgrim's His minuscule army of 300 knights managed of Tripoli refused to surrender. In the meantime, the survivors of the Crusade and were regrouping in Jaffa in the presence That was when scouts gave him reports of a Baldwin feared and respected the armies of in Ascalon and Ramla, he was well aware that force of Arab and Berber cavalry supported the traditional Frankish tactics. And so the king of Jerusalem rode out to meet To their dismay, they wouldn't meet a small son Sharaf al-Ma'ali. The crusader army fled to the nearby city single tower. The situation was hopeless, and in the cover knight escaped, leaving the rest to their In the absence of their king, the remaining the besiegers. There were no survivors. Many knights and notable nobles were among like Hugh of Lusignan, Stephen of Burgundy man who abandoned the crusaders in the siege The Fatimids then went to Jaffa, a crucial and laid siege to it. There they employed a very deceptive tactic knights, mutilated its body and paraded it Sharaf wanted to weaken the garrison's morale, trick worked. But just as the defenders were getting ready Baldwin, who had made his way to Arsuf and the Fatimid blockade, while Hugh of Fauquembergues Once inside, Baldwin assembled a force of scattering their siege lines and forcing them In 1103 the close call was followed up with sacked the city of Al-Muslimiyah, taking many Aleppo. He had also managed to capture the Byzantine in that very year, Bohemond's ransom was captivity. Bohemond then proceeded to attack Kafar Latha, Despite this minor setback trade with Genoa, of them soon had their own quarter in every However, things started to change for the It all started with Baldwin of Bourg, ruler The influential crusader needed aid and requested For a moment the crusaders were re-united of Courtenay, the archbishop of Pisa, Dagobert, on the same side. Together they mustered a force of around 1000 This unity would not last as the Seljuk rulers an attack on Edessa with 7000 horse archers, lift their siege. Indeed both armies lifted their siege in order The crusaders were so rushed that Baldwin didn't even wear their armor. What happened next was a two or three-day-long throughout history never stop falling for. The crusaders from Edessa were positioned the right in a loose formation that kept changing The chase began near the city of Raqqa and over a hundred kilometres. The crusaders were decisively crushed, with Bohemond and his nephew barely escaped. This was another decisive defeat which stopped First Crusade. This defeat cost Bohemond so many men that so hard to take from the Byzantines rebelled Cilicia was lost, but even worse, the harbor Bohemond barely held out in the city's citadel, He was well aware that unless he gained reinforcements, lifeline to the west now being cut. Only a few weeks after the battle, Baldwin help of the Genoese and Pisan navy, putting to act. As we covered earlier, in 1081, Robert "the the first Norman invasion of the Balkans, after he took the throne. Together they took Larissa and won several Alexios proved to be more cunning and outmaneuvered in charge, who the Emperor then beat. In the following years, the Byzantines hired Normans before Alexios weaponized Christian already spiralling out of control. And now, in 1104, exactly 100 years before Crusade, Bohemond of Taranto, prince of Antioch, the Eastern Roman Empire. But for him to get there, he needed an army, to make several stops in Byzantine ports. Luckily he was very resourceful. The prince ordered his men to dress up as coffin, with secret air vents in the middle A rooster was killed and placed inside so Whenever they set anchor in a trade port, the scourge of the empire. This rouse went on for a while, but then just Bohemond revealed the truth and sent Alexios great detail: "Overtime your empire have and firm resolve as an adversary. When I turn my luck around, God knows I will Ever since I marched across Roman lands and spear, I've suffered much pain because of Hope after hope has been dashed, and I've barbarian wars. But now here I am! Know that, though I was dead, I have arisen, Disguised as a dead man, I evaded every eye, And now living, moving and breathing the air, news, which you will not receive with pleasure, to my nephew Tancred, bequeathing him as a As for me, I am going to my own country. To you and your friends, I'm considered living and planning clever schemes against To upset completely the Roman realm under dead, lived. If I should reach the mainland across the the Latins and Germans and our own Franks, your cities and countryside full of slaughter, itself." In January 1105, Bohemond landed in Apulia in France after his exile in Elba. In the eyes of the west, Bohemond was a superhero. Tales of his exploits had been circulating written by an anonymous Norman knight, which This manuscript had found itself in every men and women flocked to see this legendary and numerous other armies. 50 000 men from every corner of Italy, France he was parading around Italy and preparing He personally met with Pope Paschal II, and make the third call to crusade, this time desperate to wipe the stain of the crusade Following in Urban's footsteps would be responsible for the blunder in Anatolia. And so he wrote a papal letter and put a papal The call to crusade was now in full effect, was allowed to take into the heart of the In March 1106, he travelled to France and Bohemond secured a marriage for himself with Constance, who he married in Chartres. He even arranged the marriage between Tancred The prince of Antioch now had the funds, connections, his task, but he didn't rush it. He carefully planned his invasion for over his fleet and spending time with his already On the other side of the Adriatic, Alexios When he first met the Normans, the emperor from their encounters. Now he took every precaution to prevent the decades. In 1104 he ushered in a new era of Byzantine with Hungary, as his son and heir John married Irene after her conversion to the Orthodox Alexios called upon his Venetian allies, who and slowing the Norman progress. For a while now, he had been training 300 preparing them to lead. Each of them was given a contingent and ordered they became accustomed to its difficult terrain. Then the emperor left the comforts of the reminiscing the actions of Basil II and surviving There he established a base camp and ordered supplies and fortify their defenses, giving He also pulled his best generals who were entire empire on this impending invasion. The best of the Latin world was about to clash a clash, and both sides were ready. On October 9th, 1107, Bohemond finally launched and Venetian navy and landed at Valona with By the 13th, he was already laying siege to Alongside the numerous ferocious warriors, - a relative of Romanos IV, who was defeated install on the throne. In almost every way, this was a repeat of were ready for him. Bohemond's scouts reported that the defenses mountain pass was blockaded by small bands the safety of Valona and re-assessed the situation. Although Bohemond was a master tactician, board and in frustration, he besieged Dyrrachium Rams were built and rolled towards the gates, Tunnels were dug, but the defenders dug tunnels those of the enemy, fires were lit to smoke Finally, Bohemond built a massive siege tower, was set ablaze, probably by the use of Greek He then ordered his men to try and break the in the mountains. Both sides took heavy casualties, but there As time went on, resources became more scarce. Bohemond had brought over 15 000 well-trained, Venetian blockade, they were now starving Rumors began to spread as his followers questioned expedition. If they couldn't even take Dyrrachium, how questioned the entire journey altogether, And then a letter arrived. Alexios knew that he had Bohemond in the corner The fact that the emperor wrote a letter promising defected to his side was to be expected at which was brilliant. He wrote the letter as if it was a reply. This clever act of deception made it seem the emperor for these gifts in return for rumors and paranoia spread through the camp, rampant. Bohemond didn't fall for it, but many did, most legendary figure in all of Christendom unarmed. If it were any other Byzantine Emperor, Bohemond on sight, but Alexios chose to show mercy Together they discussed terms and signed the Anna recorded in great detail since her husband Later she even took it out from the imperial The lenient terms allowed Bohemond to keep Alexios, he was even given the titles of sebastokrator 200 talents. He was even given the right to pass the county which Bohemond replied: "I will observe and spoken by my mouth and will keep them are for the good of your Empire I care for never harbor even the slightest thought of Rather than making Bohemond a martyr, whom their great hero and humiliated him. It was now winter, and the weather couldn't they were now fed and clothed by the Imperial Some stayed and served Alexios, others went or even the tale of an epic battle. As for Bohemond, one of the most impactful well. He went back to Apulia, never to return to He died a few years later in 1111, making not to die in battle: Robert of Normandy died Raymond, Godfrey, Hugh, Robert of Flanders, the great Bohemond, who was the main reason humiliated and failed old man. After a drawn-out civil war that depleted Empire was now in the hands of Muhammad I However, this state was more of a loose confederation many atabegs were fully autonomous and pursued The two most important examples for our story Levant: Damascus and Aleppo. They, too, saw a major shift in policy after 1104. And here, once again, we are reminded of how age, as one of his officers, Toghtekin took by deposing his junior son Tutush II, exiling In one swift move, Toghtekin founded the Burid years. This new change could potentially mean an reality, their relationship became even tenser. In 1105, the final link between the crusaders died from injuries he sustained while laying Alexios had made a substantial investment, up Tripoli for himself, while maintaining the region. Raymond was succeeded by his two-year-old II Jordan, count of Cerdanya, took his chance Raymond was the richest of all the crusaders, as well as the engineers who managed to turn his ambition of a leading role in Holy Land Whether he knew about the change in power an army aimed at relieving Tripoli, after But on his way there, he was notified of another The city of Artah, which had rebelled against city's garrison, was now under siege. Ridwan marched towards the city, and once a full-scale attack. The crusaders retreated, abandoning their to looting, they were set upon by a greater Apparently, after witnessing the feigned retreat to employ it and did it to great effect. The numbers of participants in the battle for sure is that the majority of Ridwan's Frankish cavalry dominated their Seljuk counterparts, Tancred and his men proceeded to chase down the countryside as they went. Ridwan would remain in power for another 8 no longer be a threat to the crusaders. The Principality of Antioch was secured, but facing a far greater foe. The Fatimids were hoping to settle the score For the fifth year in a row, a large army, and marched against the crucial point between they were supported by a strong contingent collaboration between the two states. The Fatimids had made Baldwin bleed three with the biggest army since Ascalon. Sadly for those of us who enjoy sophisticated prove to be yet another disappointment. By this point, these continuous engagements Levant, and the chroniclers spare very few almost a day. What we do know is that Baldwin took charge from the rear, then came back and led a final The Egyptian camp was looted, and the third To their credit, the Fatimids were not a weak means to crush the Latins. Between 1099 and 1118, they launched major 1101, 1102, 1103, 1105, and 1118 with smaller 1108, 1110, 1111, 1113 and 1115. This means that in 19 years, the Kingdom of while laying siege to multiple cities, dealing Byzantines and the Seljuks. Keep in mind that after Ascalon, the crusaders their army consisted of around 500, supported When compared with data from other campaigns, Byzantines and Seljuks, it is hard to draw the Frankish knights really were. And through this period, the crusader states since every city had to be garrisoned and One can only imagine how different things Byzantium was preserved, the crusade of 1101, or if Bohemond's crusading force sailed Speaking of the crusade of 1101, the Seljuk more Latins than he could count, so he felt them. His forces initially tried to take Edessa, he decided to turn on his Danishmend allies. Upon his arrival at Harran, the city surrendered These victories emboldened the sultan, from apart, so when he was presented with an opportunity control of Mosul, a key city that recently The Sultanate of Rum did manage to conquer The Seljuk sultan assembled a coalition that of Aleppo, who managed to defeat Kilij Arslan In his attempt to escape, another great figure in a river. To make matters worse, his son Malik Shah fate of Anatolia in the balance. Around this time, while Bohemond was laying to advance his holdings since the Byzantines And so, in 1108, Tancred assaulted the key shifting the regional balance of power yet As for Alexios, one might assume that fending most cunning men in medieval history who wanted his hands full, but as usual, he was one step Raymond's death was a significant loss, offered rich gifts to both claimants of Tripoli. On one hand, there was William Jordan, who there was Bertrand, Raymond's eldest son, of a 4 000 strong army that raided Thessaly. Normally this would have been severely punished, allies, so instead, he invited him to the instead of an oath of vassalage, which Bertrand The Provencal then sailed to Antioch, where The Principality of Antioch had seized some naturally, Bertrand asked for their return. The Norman agreed, but only if the Provencal In a rare show of loyalty to one's word, Bertrand the Seljuks instead, but Tancred was uninterested. Bertrand departed empty-handed and made his siege camp, and a conflict erupted over succession The situation started to spiral out of control, Baldwin decided to mediate the conflict and was taken, its lands would be divided equally The two sides begrudgingly agreed and Bertrand but this time to Baldwin, while William turned war between the crusader states. Then on July 12th, 1109, the crusaders, supported successfully captured Tripoli. The resistance was strong, and many men lost an injury to which he succumbed in days. Suddenly Tripoli had only one ruler, who owed Unfortunately for Tancred, his sphere of influence of Courtney and Baldwin of Bourg were ransomed During their absence, Antioch held control they refused to bend the knee to him, especially The two then openly went to war against each king who supplied him with an army and 300 These punitive raids caused severe damage which led to the clergy getting involved. A council was formed, and the prelates ruled as count of Edessa, a semi-autonomous crusader Jerusalem. Four considerable crusader victories mark First, in the spring, a large army, assembled to Edessa, but was forced to retreat after Then after a two-month blockade, Baldwin, Beirut, killing most of its inhabitants. Fatimid ships from Tyre and Sidon tried to Then in October, Baldwin welcomed the first-ever King Sigurd I of Norway, whose incredible we hope to make in the future. After stopping by England, Iberia, and Sicily, by praying in Jerusalem, bathing in the river This time, however, the Fatimid fleet nearly by a Venetian squadron under Doge Faliero Sidon fell on December 4th after surrendering And then, finally, Tancred led his own assault Krak des Chevaliers, solidifying his domain. By this point, Bohemond had signed the treaty Alexios offered him an annual salary of 200 amount of land as long as he held them in a letter to Tancred. Alexios opened pandora's box and was now willing writing letters and sending gifts. In 1110 the Pisans were approached and offered trading privileges similar to the ones he Normally merchants had to pay a 10% tax, and the 0% Venice paid, it was still a bargain. Additionally, Pisa would receive yearly payments and lucrative trade opportunities. In return, the merchant city agreed to become The treaty that both sides signed has survived will we, inhabitants of the city and land people at enmity with you for the purpose or any other lands or islands which you hold time fourth in Croatia, Dalmatia, or Dyrrachium Note that Alexios was not simply interested goal was a full restoration of the Eastern To get there, he signed a deal with the same his enemies. But why did the emperor choose Pisa over Genoa, The wording of this treaty and what followed massive invasion of the crusader states, and his post in Jerusalem, they made the ideal The negotiations stalled, and the Byzantine only issued in late 1111 after Lombard, Genoese Another indication of Alexios's ambitions The emperor expressed his sympathy and spoke V, who openly threatened the Papacy, offering He even suggested the possibility of a church The Pope, however, wasn't interested. The next correspondence is based on slim evidence, to the sultan in Baghdad, incentivizing him In the meantime, the most serious diplomatic who in 1111, sailed to Cyprus with a fleet His first stop was Tripoli, where Bertrand vast treasury. He reaffirmed his oath to Alexios and was he arrive personally at the gates of Antioch. Once word got out, Baldwin called Butumites The idea was to form a coalition against Antioch, to join, but only after Alexios gave him a support. Giving so many resources to the potential like a scam than a bad deal, so talks continued During that same period, Butumites approached he refused. By this point, it was 1112, and the ruler Pons as the count of Tripoli. Yet again, a regency complicated things, and his treasury, the local bishop refused him. Suddenly there was a standoff, and despite Cyprus, the money was never returned. Instead, the council sent Pons to Antioch that the relations between the two crusader The following year not only did Butumites their resentment of the Byzantine deal with of Dalmatia. Despite affirming his claim over the region, stall and delay the potential invasion for The emperor was an old man, and with Malik continued to threaten his rear, the clock to prove inefficient. Then either due to the Byzantine machinations crusader state rallied together and stood by the Seljuk Sultan Tapar. What was possibly the first Jihad against of Mosul Mawdud, with him were the emirs of At first, the army marched against Edessa, the formidable fortress, then they moved against besieged it. Lines were drawn, and the defenders were tested. Before long, sickness began spreading throughout to illness. Almost immediately, his followers left the Mawdud, hoping to gain Ahlat for himself. But before the diminished army could make requested assistance against the crusaders, When Mawdud got there, he was surprised to of, worse still, Ridwan refused to open his Instead, the army of Damascus, led by Toghtekin, host, giving it a much-needed boost. By this point, the crusaders were able to count Bertrand of Tripoli and count Baldwin against the enemy near Shaizar. As soon as they were in sight, Mawdud employed wave after wave of horse archers to harass But after years spent fighting the Seljuks, to give chase, instead blocking their arrows Small-scale charges were utilized only if The battle became a standoff; day after day, The Seljuks waited for opportune moments, horses by the Orontes river to attack them. After two weeks with supplies running low, fell back to Afamiya. Even during their withdrawal, every contingent the Seljuk soldiers were completely demoralized. With two major contingents abandoning the the warriors refused to follow their commander, back. The Battle of Shaizar was a clear message Despite their rivalries, low numbers and limited to Islamic or Byzantine ones and were here In the course of this story, we examined the the death of Basil II, culminating in the In the chaos that followed, what seemed to and sat on the throne in Constantinople. Alexios Komnenos had no treasury, no army, up a story and meticulously aimed it at the as trinkets that spurred the imagination of The Emperor was successful and carefully guided past 700 years, directing it towards the heartland and raids. Now in the year 1111, less than 10 percent But their stubborn existence in the face of change the course of history forever. Alexios was becoming wiser with age, but that asthma, letting him know that the clock was That same clock had already run out for both Bertrand of Tripoli, who was succeeded by Tancred, who was acting regent of Antioch, with the Occitan contingent in the Holy Lands Krak des Chevaliers, all claimed by the counts The young lord, technically a vassal of both to the Normans. That following year, the man instrumental succumbed to typhus. In his will, he ordered his wife, Cecile, to Pons, further cementing the alliance between The princedom of Gallie passed to Joscelin by Bohemond's four-year-old son Bohemond Constance. Naturally, this meant that a new regent was of Salerno. These moments of instability were exactly so in 1112 the atabeg of Mosul, Mawdud ibn with the siege of Turbosell, the core of Jocelin's In June, a small crusader force he led pushed Shortly afterwards, an attempt by an Armenian and Baldwin of Bourg, ruler of Edessa, galloped Down south, Baldwin of Jerusalem's advances partly due to the departure of his Norwegian In April 1112, a large combined force from Damascus, Toghtekin, forced him to lift the Mawdud proposed to unite all Islamic forces and for all resulting in the most promising In 1113 The armies of Mosul and Damascus stood of the sea of Galilee. In response, Baldwin and his bannermen offered The numbers on both sides are unknown, but for either side. Mawdud used the classic feigned retreat and positions, including Baldwin, who charged Almost immediately, he realized his mistake army and his soldiers were attacked from every Yet again, a string of luck and good armor said for a big portion of his army. The survivors formed up and held their ground began sending columns to raid the countryside. One of them sacked the town of Nablus, all ground on a nearby hill. Contingents from Tripoli and Antioch soon means to repulse the raiders. Despite that, Mawdud and Toghtekin failed back once supplies ran out. The victorious leaders feasted in Damascus, next blow. Mawdud was slain after his prayers by the the next two rulers of Mosul in 1126 and 1131. Later that year Emir of Aleppo, Ridwan, died flooded with violent militia, who captured and executed them for conspiring with the The successor Alp Arslan was 16 then, but which gave him the nickname al-Akhras or the Upon his ascension, many of his brothers were al-Baba killed the boy in hopes of obtaining Taking advantage of the fact that his enemies of Edessa, Baldwin of Bourq, hatched a plot under the pretense that he was writing his Upon arrival, Joscelin was imprisoned and Galilee. Soon after, the two sides mended their relations they married each other's sisters. The latter phase of the First Crusade is a sides are taking a pause and preparing for impactful events. 1113 is easily one of the busiest of those Back in Byzantium, Alexios was struggling leaders he had personally met and received This new generation of leaders didn't experience forget the many shipments that prevented their them through Anatolia. They knew him as the treacherous Emperor who hero Bohemond. Alexios exhausted every diplomatic measure, Holy Land, especially Antioch. Unfortunately for him, his dream had to be to a new wave of Seljuk incursions. His son Malik Shah didn't ratify the truce 1112, major raids were conducted around Smyrna. In 1113 a massive army marched up to the gates countryside. The city's governor sallied out with his be captured in the fighting. It was then that Alexios did the unthinkable as he tried to catch up to the enemy. The Emperor rescued vast amounts of loot and governor of Nicea was saved. Unfortunately, all hope of securing the Holy Sultanate of Rum was at hand. In 1114, all sides were licking their wounds, since a massive earthquake destroyed most its regent to devote most of his time to restoring The other notable event was the continued Bursuqi, who invaded in May, before being The following year, however, would be filled In 1115 the Seljuk Sultan Muhammad Tapar, crusaders appointed Bursuq II the lord of up of soldiers from upper Mesopotamia, numbering News of this force shocked not only the crusader The new atabeg of Aleppo al-Baba sent envoys of Mardin and asked them for aid against the Roger of Salermo. Messengers galloped all over the Holy Land, in a temporary alliance against the Seljuk and Jerusalem. In short, the only way to unite all of these like the Byzantines or Seljuks to invade them. The allies gathered their armies and moved Afamiya, strategically located at the crossroad them to maneuver and rescue whichever city The next time scouts reported movements of a town 30 kilometres from their locations, Baldwin of Jerusalem immediately mobilized north. Along the way, the now-adult Count Pons of 2,000 infantry. The king sent a message forbidding Roger from Bursuq's forces soon closed around Roger's and their allies into a charge. Their skirmishing tactics severely provoked Things were so tense that Roger threatened out of the camp without permission. Later, he rode through the camp with his sword When Bursuq heard of Baldwin's relieving force, to the east. Baldwin's combined army may have been as large The coalition quickly followed and burned with the Seljuks. When Bursuq didn't turn back to defend the was over and left for home. As soon as the allied host dispersed, Bursuq town of Kafr Tab, near Afamiya. A weary and abandoned, Roger recalled his with just 700 cavalry and 2,000 infantry, contingent from Edessa. Meanwhile, Bursuq took his army toward Zerdana, Roger stationed his army south of the city Orontes river. Early on September 14, Roger received intelligence camp near Sarmin to water their horses. He rapidly advanced and took Bursuq's army As the Crusaders launched their attack, some Roger divided the Frankish army into left, Baldwin led the left wing while Prince Roger The Crusaders attacked in an echelon formation As we often see in these charge or feign retreat victory was imminent. The Seljuks were pressed back to a hillside by the Crusaders. The Frankish right was the only place where broke the Turcopoles stationed there. The fighting continued for some time, but himself a worthy successor to Tancred. At least 3,000 Seljuks were killed and many bezants. In contrast, the Frankish losses were minor. This victory solidified the crusader domains Mosul for a whole decade. With the Seljuk threat eliminated, the Muslim the crusaders, and some personally travelled Tapar. Baldwin of Bourg made good use of this victory in the valley of the Euphrates, taking Birejik resettled elsewhere. As for Baldwin of Jerusalem, he decided to attempting to capture Jaffa. The Latins rescued the city and pushed further outposts such as Montreal. The following year, he returned to the region After the local inhabitants fled, Baldwin island, leaving a garrison in both fortresses. The three strongholds--Montreal, Eilat and the rich caravan routes between Syria and They also enabled Baldwin to survey the movements From the Red Sea coast, Baldwin hastened to at the Ladder of Tyre, known as Scandelion town from the mainland. Tyre was a major stronghold that continued they had to close. But late in 1116, Baldwin fell seriously ill. On his deathbed, he ordered all of his debts wealth and considered his successor. But this was not the end of Baldwin. The man who traveled all this way still had main protagonist of this story. In 1116 Alexios Komnenos got tired of waiting out in force. The Byzantine emperor who had saved Eastern at reconquering Anatolia, by striking at the But as his troops were still being drilled raiding western Anatolia. This didn't dissuade the Emperor, so he to Antioch in Pisidia as he headed towards Smaller fortresses and outposts were captured, Then the army entered the plateau. Malik Shah had gathered his own army and awaited However, in a rare sight of character growth, impulsive young man who rushed head first to turn back. As he withdrew, he gathered numerous local Aware that danger could loom around every make a hollow square formation. Soldiers made firm rectangles, with civilians landscape. Indeed the now-returning raiders from the attacking them with their usual hit-and-run At the rear, Malik Shah also pounced with Day and night, the discipline and morale of did not falter under the Komnenoi standard. After realizing he could not break the formation, Sultan and emperor met in person and shook Malik Shah's father. The Sultanate of Rum kept control of Central Western Anatolia would be free from raids. This was the best that Alexios could hope his hands, every major city in the region But yet again, fate had different plans. As Malik Shah returned to his camp, his officers complacency. The source of their wealth was raiding, and their power. Alexios had saved the lives of thousands of hard to obtain so little. Only two years later, after 37 years on the to his illnesses. Few rulers have a resume as rich as his. His deeds are still being discussed today, the impending crusades and rivalry with merchant To them, he is the man who opened Pandora's Others see him as the greatest Byzantine emperor, II, for his reforms of the clergy and monetary against Normans, Pechenegs and Seljuks and a dozen assassination attempts and starting But both sides agree that few rulers have as Alexios. But our story, which took two years to make Crusade, concludes with a different bittersweet princes who answered Urban's call. Baldwin of Jerusalem miraculously recovered He aimed to secure the southern frontier with which began in March 1118 and went as far as Muslim civilians fled before the crusader Baldwin's retainers were hopeful and urged old wound to his kidneys, received in 1103, The king of Jerusalem succumbed in a matter for which he named his brother Eustace III, of Bourq if necessary. Five days later, his body was buried in the to that of his other brother Godfrey on Palm 1118 saw the death of the Byzantine Emperor, Sultan, and the Bishop of Rome, acting as alliances and interests. The stories of the Seljuks, Romans, Latins the story of the First Crusade and the main had reached its conclusion. So ends our retelling of the First Crusade. We are currently working on the videos of videos covering Third and Fourth Crusades These long videos are very difficult and time sharing, commenting and subscribing! Beyond many free videos, we also produce youtube than 50 available right now and 2 added weekly. Join their ranks to watch exclusive videos, schedule, get early access to all videos and This is the Kings and Generals channel, and