What is your long term goal piece? Nail polish and piano... What is this?! How can I organize Goooddddd Hello. My name is Yulianna Avdeeva, and I'm here about all things piano on Reddit. Yulianna Avdeeva is one of the most beloved pianists working today, and she's the newest addition to the Tonebase Premium Library, where she's recorded I'm very excited to share some thoughts His Opus 62, number one in B Opus 59 No. 3, the mazurka, Nocturne opus Posthumous in C-sharp minor, Grand Polonaise Brillante, Tonebase Premium is the platform There you can find some of the greatest offering their wisdom on the essential There's something for every level, no matter where you are They're currently on their Black Friday sale, All plans are 50% off so be sure to check the link Now back to Yulianna. of course And for me personally, is LISZT, funny enough many things are written It's very comfortable to play even, Somehow it's I feel comfortable with it. Brahms is the opposite in my case, because I think Brahms And, you know, sometimes, which he writes where he literally tries This is not very pianistic for me, So this is I have to find the how to how to manage this. Another example of for me, very, very difficult Well he had the wonderful fantastic hands. He has huge hands which is very actually very, very rare, used in all of his pieces. So in the beginning when I started it feels like a disaster and And then was a time when you and get into your blood, Then it stays forever. And it feels like, But the also the hands are so warm Rachmaninoff Sonata or Concerto. it's really amazing how this changed in the beginning and then feeling during certain time apparently that's but that's what my parents say, great fun of trying with one finger trying to find the melody with one finger I was five years old but that's My parents called Artur Gnessin in Moscow, where I There was amazing teacher I studied with So officially, yes, the piano was occupying my mind God, no. That is very good. This is critical because, I mean, my first Because. Yeah, But then I started to think, If you would just hear me on this instrument, which has nothing he composed his music for Yes. It's a great improvement. A great improvement to the instruments Or he will say, What is this? Why is she playing my music on this terrible instrument?! So basically, I think I would have to apologize or not apologize, almost in front of everyone. That's it. What are some underrated piano concertos? Well, I think there are several concertos maybe not I am a great fan, for instance, and especially of his Symphony Number two, which is actually a piano concerto, through a good friend of mine, conductor who encouraged me to I am so, so happy to play it. And I know that many audiences It's really just fantastic, amazing music. What is your long term goal piece? Well, I had several some of them And so, of course, And I don't think that which I have learned, I feel like, actually it feels the opposite. It feels like I have still much favorite pieces, which I would like to Well, I basically adore Bartok. And number one, number one Concerto is, ones, also physically, it was a beginning of the new era And I think it's I will be I will. I will learn it. There are many other pieces like, I would love to learn Schumann's without the orchestra&quot; because I think But basically I also admire Schumann Mount Everest of his entire work. One of the goals is Beethoven's Hammerklavier Sonata. This is a piece which I wanted to play for a very, And finally last year it happens that I consider This is one of the greatest achievements and some human being was able to create This makes me this is a piece which I am so proud that Nail polish and piano! I think this is actually Basically, to be honest, Not that I didn't didn't and didn't polish is good for nails of pianists, a little bit stronger with the split nails especially. But it depends very much on the repertoire the worse is when I'm playing Prokofiev. So that's fun. with my fingernails, And then they hit the keys All this can be very painful. So you can choose the transparent or not no color nail polish Well, in the last years of my life, But I absolutely agree that this is So romantic and charming piano music. Well, for me, probably in the expression, in a in a sense also that also obsessing I'm a great admirer of his music because I think that he first of all also saying that he was a god of the piano ladies were falling to his feet. And. Well, however, I don't know. But his music definitely is one of the For me. And the pieces like Liebestraum, or, Valee d'Obermann, or Consolations, Beautiful music. but for me, Liszt is not only it's for me, he's then he's literally doing everything And also I think that his passion, somehow that can be also very inspiring what are your favorite obscure Well, conversation about the basically composers the musical for Arnold Schoenberg, in the area for a while, performed on the, on the big stages, But however, I have done a quite about the composers of all sorts Mieczyslaw Weinberg And then he had to leave Poland and his family was k1lled he came to Soviet Union and became a great friend of Dmitri Shostakovich, But of course, Weinberg was a kind of in the shadow he composed amazing feeling, musical movie So my first encounter with his music version of the Winnie the Pooh. And he composed a music to it. But I didn't realize that this the same composer who I was playing thanks to Gideon Kramer, who introduced And we made some, recordings of chamber music by I mean, she's alone, by Weinberg, the variety of his pieces is amazing. So I think that there are always many, That's makes me actually very happy that make the interesting encounters. Where to start with Scriabin? Well, this is a very essential question, because also Scriabin left us And I remember very well my I played his mazurka in G minor. And, basically the early period was influenced by music of Frederic Chopin. He composed many beautiful preludes the first And then of course with the four and five, a movement into a completely new direction It's very unique, it's it's good because it's very, very beautiful music How can I organize Well, I know the problem. So the actually, the problem is, a big box of And of course, I do not want to bring so I make a copy of it. Of course, the pages are mixed up. wrong order, missing right the only advice I can give for you have a copy of a piece of music You have to find a solution You can use tape, you can use Don't, don't, don't say I will do it tomorrow. No, because you will not. I know this, so just do it immediately. Bring this one piece into one piece This is the only chance to get rid of this How to go from &quot;God, I have to practice&quot; to &quot;great, I get to practice.&quot; Well I think that's a question sometimes I think which, which should be always I think it's actually such a gift not through the language, not through the language we speak, which is a much more precise way which I don't sometimes So I would say that this is a magic, This is a magic box with the 88 keys, which allows us to travel to talk through the music yeah. Just to open our imagination these keys, we have a unique possibility maybe we will never experience in real, So I think maybe we can go from indeed, having a bad feeling about practice. We can imagine that this is our chance And by the way, check our videos with the Tonebase, where we had a discussion about some great