Arrows do bounce. You can I've seen people skip arrows along water. Hello! I'm Jim Kent, known to the wider world as Grizzly Jim. I'm a traditional archer, YouTube creator. I'm lucky enough to have sharing my passion for Today I'm back to look at some archery clips from film and TV to judge how real they are. Mother: My boy! He's at full draw there. He's got a pretty solid anchor. You can see him massively Once you've been shooting for a while, you get over that. You don't have that flinch. You don't anticipate the shot so much. But when you're fairly new to archery, that's something that's pretty typical. But he's given the feather a lick. I don't know why you'd do it. Why? I mean, why would you lick it? I mean, that's been in the dirt. An arrow will spin as it especially with a feather. Feathers come in two flavors. You've got left wing or right wing. One will make it spin one way, the other will make it spin the other. But it doesn't fly straight. Arrows, when they fly through the air, they oscillate like crazy because you've got all this energy coming from the back and pushing. It's usually fairly weighty up front. It takes a couple of seconds for the back to catch up with the front. So you end up with this flying through the air. Obviously the more tension in the rope, the easier it would be to cut. If there wasn't much weight there it would be very difficult to cut. But if it's under a lot of tension, that would cut through quite nicely. I don't know, to this day, because they compress to almost nothing. But you can shoot two arrows off a bow. You can do that. It's not an efficient way of doing things. The bow doesn't know that there's two arrows on the bow, the bow just thinks there's And obviously the heavier the arrow, the more energy's used up trying to propel that arrow. I think I'm going to have to go eight, just because of the feather thing. If I use a quiver, I tend It gives you a nice low profile. Quivers you tend to either wear on your hip or your side or your back. When you're in the woods, you tend to want to keep a so a back quiver is quite useful. Arrows do make a noise but they don't quite make a noise like you expect them to, unless you use something called a flu-flu, which is an arrow with really The noise that they make is so satisfying. Now, he's got this weird He's got the arrow on the and he's holding the string like that, which isn't what you do. If you really wanted to you'd need the arrow on I imagine that's more of an You can hear, as he draws up, you can hear the bow creaking. Now, this is a trope. And that's when the bow you hear it creak. Bows don't creak. If your bow's creaking when it's probably going to explode on you. But the archery's a little I'm going to go six. Yeah. I'm going to get for that one, but I love so don't come for me. Soldier: Archers! I've tried this. And what actually happens is when you wrap something the arrow goes, but that tends to stay. So you end up with a bit of linen on fire by your fingers, which isn't a great idea. I'm sure there was other ways of doing it, but it was actually a small that had had something So when you shot the arrow, the force of the arrow going forward didn't force it down the arrow shaft. It's all about quantity over quality. So you'd send a lot of to try and sort of rain down hell on the opposing side. There's a very famous English battle, the battle of Agincourt, where the English famously won the day because of their archers I kind of like the way the arrows are bouncing off the shields. I would've definitely employed that tactic if I was at Troy. Got a bracer on to protect his arm from the string. So, what happens is, when you draw a bow back and let it go, the string, in an ideal world, would come nice and but it doesn't. Because if you see a string in slow motion, it actually comes towards So a lot of time you tend to sort of bash your arm with the string, and that sort of bracer there would potentially stop that. Give that one a seven. She's got an anchor point She's looking very, very straight, very good sort of target-archery style. And there's nothing wrong but it is very good for She's going to be competing so she's going to be in sort of more combat sort of situations, so that isn't really the for that sort of scenario. She's going very quickly, and you see it a lot in films where people are shooting very quickly. Archery, for me anyway, is always a little bit more measured, a little bit more &quot;take like get that perfect shot off because it takes a long time to kind of load your bow In the Middle East, they he's very quickly loading the bow, shooting very rapidly, I imagine the bow is a very low poundage, because the poundage required you're going to need sort of and it takes time to pull it back. So she's not really shooting with the greatest amount of kind At that short distance, that would work. It's not the prettiest, but, you know, in that sort of situation, you're not trying to be elegant, you're not trying to be pretty, you're trying to save your life. Visually, very impressive. But you wouldn't use that I'll give that one an eight. Some of the movements are It's not necessarily right, 175 yards away. He's talking about a very long way to be very accurate with a longbow. Now, I'm sure people were but the equipment was very basic, the arrows were very basic. Archery's all about consistency. And in these sort of times, you wouldn't have had the technology to make an arrow exactly You couldn't weigh them exactly the same. They can't see us. Maybe they thought that was luck. They were typically sort So you know, 6 foot plus. For really smacking an arrow in, a longbow really does Very big draw force curve, lot of energy. If you look at sort of more war bows, which is a very high-poundage sort of 80 pounds plus. The bow I shoot is about 45 which is quite substantial. I shot a 120-pound bow once, and it damn near folded me in half. He's put his hand in his pouch, and he's putting a powder on his fingers, possibly a resin or something. I'm guessing it's to help him get a smooth release on the string. There's not a lot wrong with that. It looks pretty solid. His head barely moves. A lot of people, when they're will be so focused on they'll shoot and they'll move their head to try and look past the He makes the shot, his head doesn't move, and I like that. That's a really good technique. You missed him anyway. I didn't miss anyone. If you can see through it, You don't need a huge amount of space. Obviously the smaller the space, the more chance you've got The arrows don't fly straight, so if you're shooting as the arrow flies through, you could clip the back of it. In hunting situations, arrows quite often pass through an animal. You call it pass-through. But at that sort of distance, the arrow's going to lose a lot of energy. Because what feathers do, feathers stabilize an arrow fantastically, but they also act as a parachute, so they're going to slow the arrow down, and there were some quite The bigger the feathers, the more stable, but the slower it's going to go. So, you know, 175 yards, the arrow's going to slow down a bit. I don't know if you'd get a pass-through at that sort of distance. So we'll go seven. Sorry, King Arthur. These guys have shot three arrows into a cement wall. If you shoot an arrow into something hard, it bounces out, especially if it's stone. Any archer that's been and has taken a bad or missed the target and hit a wall, it absolutely pancakes the arrow. I can't actually see the types of points they're using on these arrows, but if they're trying to kill people, which it looks like they they'd be using something But a broadheaded arrow is an arrow tip that's designed to cause It's usually a two-bladed, three-bladed sharp point on the end of an arrow. They're doing some very There is sort of some evidence of kind of the more martial side of archery. Generally, close-range archery is, I don't know, it's not really a thing. Archery's a long-range, mid- It takes seconds to load the bow, to draw the bow, to shoot the bow. A guy with a sword could They're definitely the more which is really a precursor to the modern-day recurve bow. She's using it as a but they're generally fairly and she's kicking the s--- out of guys with armor with a bow. I don't know how effective that would be, you know, to guys in armor. They're not very heavy They're made of mostly, sort of, a wood or a wood substitute. We'll go seven, just because It's really dynamic. It shows different styles of archery. That would be very heavy, and that would create a so the arrow would probably just flop in front of her. And also, she's got to But the thing I really like is the way the bow moves. Now, if you do happen to they are like a wet noodle. They're wobbling all over the place. It's fascinating to see when you see something And they've got the movement That is exactly what a bow would do. There are people out there that have claimed to catch arrows. When I have seen it done, it's kind of more stunts where the arrow isn't traveling isn't traveling particularly fast, and you sort of grab it out of the air. I've seen it done like that. But in a true situation with a true bow at a realistic poundage, unless it was at a very long distance and you could sort of I mean, don't do it, because you're essentially which is stupid, so don't ever do that. I mean, they're dealing with some kind of fantasy elements there, but we'll give that one an eight, I think. I love this film. This is such a good archery movie. This guy here at full draw, now, the bow he's using is a nice little short-style hunting bow. He's got really, really nice form there. He's wearing finger protection, and that's the first time we've seen someone actually wear in any of these scenes. without any sort of finger protection, be that a glove, be that a tab, it's going to hurt, and over time it's going to cause serious damage to your fingers. First with blisters, then nerve damage. Release. Some people really do and use their dominant They're probably using some sort of system where they're using their eye and sort of working out the distance and where they need to put to make the shot. I don't do that. I keep both eyes open. We see in 3D, so I like to see what it I get a bit more of a better how far away it is. It's really good for distance judging. Now, this is why I like He's going through something And that is a mental issue. I mean, it's a very extreme but he's going through something, and you get it with hunting quite a lot, you get it with sort of competitions. You just get into your own head, and it's very difficult to get a shot off. And it's so good to see a representation of someone really And I've struggled with target panic. In films, you see everyone's doing everything perfectly every time. But archery isn't perfect every time. And what they're doing He's got a bow quiver and he's got a fishing reel. You can tell he's been coached by someone that knows what they're doing. Bowfishing is an incredibly tough skill, and I've got nothing but respect for anyone that can bowfish. Because it's not just a Because of the refraction of the water, you've actually got to put it in a different place to where the fish is. It's a whole skill that I've Machines are going to fail, and the system's going to fail. He's got some very bright feathers on his arrow. Now, they're what's called, the two shapes you tend to get, you get a shield shape They're a parabolic feather, so they're round at the back. Very bright colors. Hunters tend to use quite Sort of the oranges, They show up in a nature They help you track the animal, if you're looking for the arrow. They help you find lost arrows. I think it's a very so I am going to give Bows don't do that. Bows are under a lot of tension. I can't think of a plausible You'd have to string the bow. You'd have to put tension into the bow. That's not how bows work. It looks very cool. It's To shoot something far away, you have to shoot above it. The closer something gets to your level, the lower you have to get. Same with if you were You kind of get a lead on the arrow, so you're not shooting where the thing is that you're shooting at is, you're shooting it where it's going to be. An arrow does travel. It travels fast, but Tracking it requires more Theoretically could put You can certainly get arrows that have got gunpowder in it and a charge that sort of causes a lot of damage. It's really hard to shoot in a helmet, but he's got a very, he's overdrawing the bow as well. He's pulling it back right back to here, which is a technique that can be used. I was in a little film once where I had to try and and you can't get an It's really difficult. Arrows do bounce. You can I've seen people skip arrows along water. There's a trick I used to do, and there's a little wooden ramp, and I could shoot the and it would skip up. I'm going four. Pull. What he's got there, he's He's going to hold them So he's not using a quiver, he's using his own hand as the quiver. And it's a technique where you sort of draw the arrow from your hand almost onto the bow straightaway. As I mentioned before, the kind of more Eastern very quick succession. Again, getting as many arrows He's got this very low anchor point, very floating anchor point. That's difficult to get accuracy, but he's using an Eastern-style bow, the sort of bow that and you can't really get when you're on a horseback. And some of those archers So maybe anchor point isn't everything for this sort of particular style. And I love Pedro Pascal. Ah, I'm going to give it a five. He's got a crossbow with a scope on it. Now, the thing is, with a crossbow, they are very accurate. It takes a lot of the so it's literally pulling a trigger, as long as it's cocked correctly and you've got the bolt in. I did notice, he shoots the bolt, but the the bow still remains cocked. She's holding it for a very long time. That's a very long time Olympic archery is slightly different. You tend to have a that sort of clicks when the arrow gets to a certain length, and you hold it full draw for So the shot sequence on an Olympic-style bow would be longer, but she's at full draw The other thing I noticed the way she's got the string, it's down the side of her nose. Now, what's going to happen, if that was a fully and she had a decent release, that's going to whip right past her nose and cause a lot of pain. And if you do it again and I imagine there is some sort for her to sort of feel. On modern arrows, you tend to have a little plastic index notch on there, so you can feel which So I imagine it's a Let's give &quot;The Hunger Games&quot; a six. My favorite kind of archery movies, I mean, two of them are in there. The &quot;Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves,&quot; which I think is absolutely fantastic. It's a little bit cheesy. The other one in there is &quot;Deliverance.&quot; It's such a good It shows archery as, it's never perfect. There's always something And if you like this video, why not aim at the one above