Etsy, the global e-commerce handmade goods, reported its $2.7 billion in 2023. But that's not the full Its gross merchandise sales, sold on Etsy, declined in the the second year in a row. It stocks its more than 70% first quarter 2024 earnings better. Etsy's consolidated results, range, were not where we After the big increase in both during Covid, it looks like basically have a company that Some longtime sellers are Silverman, saying his focus company away from its vision, produced items to thrive, buyers. Competing with people who are intelligence. Now I can't It's just junk. A lot of it. You're just going to be a Amazon. That seems like a With discretionary spending in both merchandise sales and of poor execution by its CEO, It's a public company. Its job is to return value to At the end of the day, they that people want. When Etsy first came on the revolutionary idea. People who loved arts and buy those things all the time and artisans and artists who encountered before. Etsy's founder and then CEO, to empower artisans. His vision was that Etsy way that people would think products they chose. How do you get from just doing organizing this to the point living? The virtual storefront also revolution. These small businesses, these the ability to connect with And this was huge. I mean, it was an opportunity grow their sales. Nicole Aline Legault and the many artists who joined work. Legault has been there Everyone that I knew was because it was one of the this platform and template. It was very about the sellers. They were really driving the what it was and creating a Transaction fees were Etsy received B Corporation the first companies with that IPO, which it did in 2015. At the time, it was valued at in Etsy's foundation were Kalin stepped down as CEO in As competition was a big change in 2013, outside manufacturers to The term handmade was getting And in this new public arena, financially focused focus on growth. Etsy's stock lost more than full year as a public From the beginning, Etsy You know, when it went red. This wasn't uncommon for It's still not necessarily startups and things like needed to kind of change Vendors, too, were unhappy for There's been a massive culture It's something that really public. It's happening had been there since the this company as, you know, Yet another CEO was appointed Josh Silverman made both laying off 22% of Etsy's pushing through transaction He also introduced a new tier sellers to jumpstart their It's ultimately like maybe too happy and wasn't doing enough satisfaction. So that's what know, kind of maybe more marketplace, which is key. By 2018, things were picking the stock was at its highest. The turnaround was attributed And then the pandemic. For the month of April, Etsy face masks. That's 12 million The pandemic was a boon for The number of active buyers Gross merchandise sales grew year in 2020, and more than Etsy stock price reached its It also started charging some advertising, bringing in Pandemic related success is It's a flash in the pan. So far missed earnings in 2023 are leaving investors with may have been just that a In December 2023, the company But as Etsy focuses on a some of its biggest Etsy has been changing how platform to prioritize buyers staying on Etsy, not good experience from Chiarra Lohr leads the Indie advocacy group for Etsy -long strike against the frustrated by yet another controversial star seller sellers who meet requirements ratings and quick response And everything seems very It's almost as though you're the way they're trying to Don't shut down my shop person. Don't issue a refund proof that it was damaged. It's not drop your fees by It's not get rid of offsite It's let me opt out if it Kind of all those things find themselves heaping less when they have a sale, but work, not even in their craft but just to make their Etsy The company has said it had to compete with giants like marketing and has more repeat Its deteriorating reputation is fighting. Sellers have allowing creators to what they call the This isn't a new problem, but worse as the number of I want to show you the the become. Legault went viral for her top Etsy shops as make the designs but company. Some designs are Dropshippers are able to mass stickers and stationery. Others just sell supplies In a comment to CNBC, Etsy current definition of spectrum of items, and will more transparent about what months. There are some like old school But, um, every click I was Cups again, cups and then I click again, it's cups And I'm just like, how is I get that it's business, but business. Though this comes at odds with not necessarily bad for its If people are buying it, then for management to change that apparently. But of course, alienating the people who I think we do pay attention the policy or pricing it's had any impact on their Etsy said it removed 115% more policy in the first quarter We've always taken down items handmade. That's always been getting better technology and As Etsy tries to compete with Amazon. The path for being its core principles is Can you be Etsy while also public company? Should it I mean, it depends on who you Etsy CEO says the company is retain current buyers, half per year. The 7 million was founded on, and without longer Etsy or offers what anymore. Many sellers feel trapped. They're not really making anymore. But because Etsy is for alternatives to grow, So they've kind of really shifted and are now like In February 2024. Activist investor Elliott in the company, the largest board seat. Stock shot up We haven't really seen a ton will be from that. But generally, public market activists being involved outside opinion kind of I actually think the most a way to use that AI to help perhaps it'll be a way to is like, let us set the I think what also they're into having these third Like, I want to work directly work with other artists, I I want to do these things in human. Ultimately, some major changes it can't boost profits or In February 2024, it fee of $15 for new shops, revenue in its Q1 results. If ultimately, you know, the five 6%, 7% revenue growth they probably would Could they shrink the size of layoffs, increase the margin? I mean, generally scaled margins higher than Etsy is