There is this one thing that nintendo absolutely 2. See the whole level ecosystem is built upon It is built upon the trust that every stage of the stage was able to beat it too. Nintendo really doesn't want anyone to upload to ever beat it impossible. Naturally, tons of people, myself included a truly impossible level as soon as mario We already knew how to upload a 100% no way Mario Maker 1, so I assumed that uploading be that hard. I've never been that wrong. Wow, nintendo really did their homework, and Nonetheless they may have missed a small thing to maybe upload a stage that can't be beaten. So today we are going to investigate this ideas on how an impossible level might be question whether it is truly possible to upload 2. So are you ready? Let's do this! Okay so before we take a look at different in mario maker 2, let's first quickly recap The general idea on how to get such a stage We have to find a difference between playing once it is uploaded. The best way to do this in the first game, Mario Maker back to version 1.0. In the very first version of the game many patched as time moved on. The trick is the following: If we beat the version 1.0, then the stage is still marked This makes it possible to beat a stage that as soon as the glitch is patched, the stage That's an actually surprisingly simple trick, levels in the first game. And this is also the first thing I tried when So I basically prepared a couple of different some weird glitches. I clear checked those levels and waited for which because of the patch should now have Basically the same trick as before. Here we used a super simple magikoopa glitch For whatever reason Magikoopas were able to whenever they shot one of them with one of The block stayed visible, but it also became I assumed that once nintendo patched this not what happens, because the level just stays It just is no longer possible to recreate still exists in older levels, and our loving Levels in Mario Maker 2 no longer update when They stay on the old version of the game. What this means is that this stage here for fixed the glitch. So generally speaking nintendo is surprisingly Since leaving old levels on the old game version patch hits, which is a really really good simply exploit old glitches anymore to upload I had lots of different glitch levels set hit the game, but all the glitches still worked, As far as I can tell absolutely all glitches locally. Locally meaning that only new levels can't allowed to weirdly glitch out as much as they So this approach sadly does not work. So does that mean that it is impossible to Maker 2? Well not necessarily! See the thing is nintendo changed tons of to do is to once again go back in time, and on a global level, and therefore allows us And this is where stuff gets a bit complicated. Because as it turns out, uhm, it isn't that anymore. So I deleted all my local mario maker 1 saves, was set to flight mode, to ensure that it web. And this is the message the switch gave me. It simply refused to start the game. The problem is the following. As soon as mario maker was once installed game should be at a certain version, and absolutely the update is completed. If we put the game into a switch that never switch gracefully allows us to boot up the information that there is an update out yet. Alright so what does that mean? Well it means that we have exactly two options We can either buy a brand new switch every reset of our current switch. So one of those options is a lot more expensive that we have to delete all data, all games, our console. Hooray? So I really really really wanted to upload but those two options just aren't really I can't just go out and buy five switches, files. So sadly we can't investigate if there is old versions. Sorry for that. No I'm obviously kidding. I did the factory reset. Aaand we are back to version 1.0. What a wonderful Mario Maker it was back in Icicles are suddenly global ground again, the 16 block rule still applies. Wonderful. So the first thing I tried was to build a ground in 1.0, which changed in 1.1. Booooo news. The bad news are the following. Nope, nintendo didn't mess this up. Stages that were made in 1.0, but uploaded which is a real pity, because I would have the icicles, but that's how the game works. So here's the good news: Stages that were icicles as global ground! That's actually huge, because it means that the 1.0 physics! All that we have to do is to factory reset alongside with a physical 1.0 super mario So factory resetting is obviously not an option gentleman among you, but thanks to the cloud I mean it takes a couple of hours, and we with all our save files, but at least it allows using 1.0, when the game was still feature Hooray! Also, uhm I really want to take a second to community and update management with super It's always a great wink that the community most hardcore players of your game start to that they still have access to features that Honestly great job nintendo. *troooooot* Anyway, so icicles aren't the answer. As a matter of fact, all changes that were help us at all. All those changes only apply locally. There is no item glitch that we can use, there wizardry, there is nothing. Nintendo really did their homework, they clearly evil exploiters like us can't find a way to ever beat it level in super mario maker They did everything, but one thing. Because luckily for us, there is this one that gives us a chance. Their is this really, really weird exploit through nintendo's testing. See, all characters in the game, namely toad, same. They jump the same height, they use the same the same. But there is one super tiny difference. When wearing a fashionable fire flower outfit characters shoot fireballs at just a slightly The burning fire-flower fire power power up when playing as toad or toadette, then they Twitter user GuyRagnarok found a way to make build a small device that only lets toad or Here's how this works. The only way to escape this horrible trap, bob omb, but sadly throwing a fireball isn't blocks all our igniting shots. At least it does if we play as plumber, but spawn just a couple of pixels lower, and suddenly If we now put a brick block at the end, then because only those two characters are able taking one hit, That is, in version 1.0. Because in version 1.1, all characters throw the height of mario. And this ladies and gentlemen, is the one Meaning that this also applies to levels that That's all we need. Ladies and gentlemen, here we have our difference our stage. Ladies and gentlemen, here we have our exploit. This little glitch actually makes it possible it level in super mario maker 2. So I immediately uploaded this design, and that I missed, just to be absolutely sure And of course Icay beat the stage within an *icay jingle* But luckily icay was only able when building the stage. I forgot that it is possible to leave the boom, which makes it possible to break the So another factory reset later I had this Here we just added a couple of brick blocks, The reason we add a clear condition is because do not respawn. And thus the stage is suddenly absolutely Hooray! Except that Icay once again found another This time he managed to juggle the bob omb plant during the process and makes it possible, damaged, and makes the stage beatable again. And that's not the only exploit by the way multiplayer, without much effort. Woops, time for another factory reset. So how do de-cheese this? Well, luckily it's actually surprisingly fix the multiplayer bug, is to add a couple Here the blasters drop down if a single player more than one player they refuse to drop, The reason this works is ... the following: to the current power up state of mario. Meaning that if mario is small, like he is as mushrooms. If there are more than one player in a stage spawn in their final form. As a fire flower in this case. Mushrooms move, while fireflowers are static, The second exploit can easily be fixed by of one way doors, so that the bob omb can't Hooray! So this stage hasn't been beaten up until a chance that there is some form of cheese level, though I'd say it's highly unlikely. And even if there was, it is definitely possible uncheesable, since we found a difference between So here we have it, ladies and gentleman it impossible level in Super Mario Maker 2, thanks in 1.0, that got globally patched. I'm really glad nintendo missed this tiny to make it impossible to upload the impossible. So I'll leave this stage online for another able to check whether I missed something, since impossible levels really shouldn't Mario Challenge skipless.. So is there any point to all of this? Well, uhm, surprisingly yes! Thanks to factory resetting we are suddenly the much much better 1.0 physics. So I know that this is something that almost that put tons and tons of effort into their the game, or make stages for streamers to to see, the option is now at least here again. Also in the name of all the wiggler gods out back in. Holy Fuzzy. Anyway: for helping me theorycrafting the whole thing, debug (destroy) the first two designs! So with that being said, I hope you enjoyed to leave me a thumbs up, and maybe you feel switch games today, and want to hit the subscribe I hope that all of you have a wonderful day, Goodbye!