- As a scientist working on the search for life in the universe, one of the most common relates to UFOs, now often rebranded as UAPs. In the last few years, the interest in UFOs has only risen, thanks to some surprising revelations from parts of the US government, as well as numerous ex-government I felt like this topic was in the spirit of transparent dialogue, because when we don't talk about it, conspiracies and misinformation have a tendency to fill the vacuum. So what do astronomers such as myself, who search for life in the universe, actually think about the Let's start with clearing I think there is a widespread perception that scientists are unwilling As if they consider the to be fundamentally non-scientific or even the subject of ridicule. But I don't think that's true. In all of my interactions I found them to be and engaged. A good example of this was in a recent Scientific published by SETI scientists, Ravi Kopparapu and Jacob Haqq-Misra, who correctly point out that if we consider aliens on exoplanets to be within the realm of science, then aliens in space or must equally be so. There's no magical distance from the earth at which suddenly something So let's just first dispel the idea that scientists consider this topic to be somehow off limits Okay, fine. But there is a difference between principles and practicalities. In a real world sense, how can science ingest claims like UFOs? This is frankly a very for the scientific method, because put bluntly, the reliability of the claimed Now, it has to be said that that is a highly unusual situation for researchers to be faced with. So perhaps a good starting is just a walkthrough how Let's take astronomy as our example. We typically start with and then we go to the telescope to test it or compare to That's the first distinguishing Hypotheses are not accepted unless supporting which necessarily means that said hypotheses must Next, we analyze the data using transparent and allowing us to test and then report our findings as well as typically the raw data itself. Now, a second characteristic is that it is usually attached to some statistical evaluations of the confidence and uncertainty. A pair of especially important numbers are the true positive rate, which is how often we'd correctly identify the phenomenon of interest and the false positive rate, how often would we'd in control data where it Keep those in mind for what follows. After this, the paper is reviewed by peers as in other reputable astronomers to check for any obvious major flaws in the arguments being made. This is the third characteristic peer review, to solicit experts to these scientific claims. Look, nobody's perfect, everybody makes mistakes, and so having some checks Next, if the claim is of to the scientific community then another team will inevitably want to skeptically interrogate the claim, and so they will produce their Now that could be using the or often by collecting independent data to verify or reject the claim. So the fourth characteristic is a higher level of peer review performed by the broader community. Now, if a hypothesis survives then it becomes provisionally accepted. But of course, all Even decades later, they are still being So in this framework, an accepted scientific claim is one that has passed intense scrutiny where both the methods and multiple independent have been provided by You know, making data public is great for evaluating scientific claims, but it has to be said, there is some data that we and that's our personal data. Fortunately, that is where the sponsor Incogni.com. I truly despise having to give out my And so like many of us, I've developed these defensive mechanisms, like using a VPN, pseudonyms, and janky old Yahoo email whenever possible. But the thing is, no matter how careful you are, there are data brokers out and selling your personal I don't know about you, And of course, as time goes on, the situation just gets worse and worse as this information proliferates online. So that's why I started using Incogni.com. Rather than just being on it goes on the offense for you. Their team scour data and then legally request your records to be deleted on your behalf, and they keep at it over and over again until your information is gone, taking the fight to them. So if you want to fight Incogni have partnered with us to offer you an incredible using the link, incogni.com/coolworlds. Link down below in the description. I am personally resting and I am only endorsing products which I think are genuinely worth it. So please do check out Okay, back to the video. With our science 101 complete, let's now direct the machinery of science to the question of UAPs. The problem here is that essentially, all of the presented evidence thus far, falls outside of the norms To see this, let's consider three prominent examples that have been highlighted in the news over the last few years. First, we have the US Navy showing three objects that the US Navy were unable to identify, hence the label UAP. Second, we have personal perhaps most famously David Fravor, detailing accounts with phenomena that they were also unable to identify. And third, we have the by ex-intelligence officer, David Grusch, that the US government is in possession of something like a This is not an exhaustive list, but arguably captures the Now, I'm not gonna discuss If you want that, there are plenty of that dissect these. Instead, I'm just gonna might get ingested into which is really the point of this video. For our purposes, the relevant fact that only one of them is actually that we could at least plausibly integrate in a scientific framework. I'm not gonna lie, the three Pentagon videos when I first saw them. Here, we have seemingly from a credible source. But of course, the immediate question is whether these could simply like a balloon, a bird, or a distant aircraft, for example. Taking these videos in isolation, there are at least plausible, if somewhat improbable that do not involve alien spacecraft. Look, given the hours of recording, unlikely events can and will I mean, anybody on YouTube knows that. I did an interview with who is able to explain and reproduce what we see without aliens, and I think you should check that out to make of your own mind. The poor quality video, and lack of public makes these frustratingly ambiguous. This isn't to say that not showing alien spacecraft in motion. That could possibly be, but the current evidence presented is insufficient to Nobody is happy with ambiguity. Scientists in particular despise it. But without a full data dump the GPS information, the associated radar data, the software used to record those videos, and indeed much more, we are unfortunately stuck here. A frequent comment by UFO is that the Pentagon videos There is also the personal testimonies of the pilots themselves. And indeed by extension, the recent claims by David Grusch also fall into the category And this is where it gets really tricky for science to proceed. First, I want to acknowledge that what makes these is the fact that they come from Fravor is a highly trained military pilot, and Grusch is an ex-government both with many years of And of course, there's also other sources, some anonymous and some not, who have also provided to these accounts, such as other pilots, and government whistleblowers. But regardless, the evidence being discussed here is still personal accounts, word of mouth. A challenge in discussing this openly is that some might have a to any skepticism of these testimonies. The implication is that any translates to insinuations that delusional or even incompetent. To this, I would simply say that we cannot engage if the presented evidence is somehow immune from That is at the very core This is not motivated by some desire for character assassination but rather it is a foundational component to the very act of scientific inquiry. If claims cannot be questioned, then we are not doing science. It resembles something at that point. And I don't think that anybody if they seriously think about it. So yes, we have to be willing to unapologetically or else there's simply no path forward within the scientific framework. Once we concede that, what we are really admitting there is a non-zero false positive rate. So that means that there must exist some instances of due to some kind of misidentification of a natural or simply mundane phenomenon. Take the case of a pilot Amongst the US military branches, there are approximately with pilots typically flying something like 200 hours per So put together, that is Please don't get too hung we are just ballparking Now let's assume that military pilots are such that the rate of leading to erroneous UAP reports equates to one case in Doing the math, that would give us about which is actually fairly close to the 742 UFOs reported per year in the famous Project by the US Air Force. Now consider that a further vetting stage is applied by government investigators that are able to remove 95% of these as having a clear natural explanation. Again, that's the number that's as well as the recent NASA Applying a 95% cut drops us down to about 28 So these are events flagged as a UAP by both a trained pilot and and yet despite that, they are all in fact by definition natural or mundane phenomena Finally, the incident occurred almost two decades ago. So over that time, we'd expect roughly 500 So these example numbers show how it is quite possible for even highly trained military pilots with a remarkably low to still produce hundreds over the years. Events which have even survived independent scrutiny afterwards. What I hope this exercise is how crucial the false positive rate is. I assumed 0.01% in that scenario. But if it were 0.1%, then there'd be 10 times more To have scientific evidence we would have to detect more UAPs than that expected from If instead we found it then we would conclude that with simple misidentifications combined with large number statistics. Like monkeys on a typewriter. With millions of hours of there will inevitably randomly regurgitated. It's simply a numbers game. Now, of course, the whole problem is that when it comes it is extremely difficult the false positive rate of I assumed 0.01%, but really And of course, this gets even harder when one considers variability as well as the possible presence Now having multiple independent observers would surely decrease Yes, I agree. No doubt. But crucially, that is merely We actually need to quantify these rates in order to make progress here. Yet more, the rate is surely temporally as the number of drones and continues to rise, complicating things even more. As I hope is becoming clear, this whole situation is very different from that with astronomical observations where usually we can some artificial stars, or test our algorithms on any of which would allow us to reliably measure the In principle, one could do this for pilots and maybe even ex-intelligence officers, but in practice, this is extremely difficult to implement. And without it, we're essentially stuck. It's not that the topic itself but rather that the tools of science simply cannot make progress On top of this, there's and that's interpretation. As I'm sure you well know, the U in UFO or UAP doesn't mean aliens, it simply means unidentified. Even if you could calculate a true positive rate, and show that there exists a statistically significant all you have done is established that cannot be explained and that's something could trivially be some previously unknown but non-alien phenomenon. I think this possibility is being casually dismissed who too easily jump to aliens But to astronomers, we are intimately familiar with the folly of claiming aliens when that you've simply never seen before, not a god of the gaps Percival Lowell was convinced that streaks and Mars were alien canals. The first pulsar discovered was playfully called little green men 1. And many considered Boyajian's Star must be an alien mega structure But in each case, of course, there were no aliens. There were simply new natural phenomenon. If history teaches us nothing else, it's that we should not be so arrogant to assume that we understand She constantly surprises us and reveals how limited So in my interpretation the unknown and possibly unquantifiable false positive rate of these claims, coupled with ambiguity makes them at present simply too uncertain to make any substantive conclusions about. Again, just to emphasize, this doesn't mean that it is not aliens, but the reliability and reproducibility of the available methods and data is far from the norms that we would expect for even fairly frankly, low stakes, mundane scientific I sincerely hope this I would love to see a releases of the software studies quantifying the and just in general more And I think that is But for me, I'm going to need to see than that which we have seen thus far in order to establish a convincing case for alien visitation. But enough of my thoughts. What do my colleagues think? How do other astronomers and more broadly, the SETI Which to be clear includes Recently, Marissa Yingling of 1,460 faculty across 144 exploring academic views on UAPs. Concerning the Pentagon videos, over half of those surveyed expressed that their primary Almost 20% said skeptical, and that roughly 20% were indifferent, and the remaining were or something else. Asked whether the release 30% reported not at all, another 30% said slightly, 20% said moderately, with the rest saying From this survey, one of the more surprising resources is that of those who responded, 18.9% said that they or had seen something unexplained, which matched the description of a UAP. So taken at face value, this report supports the are following UAP stories with interest. There's not some unified On the other hand, there are plenty of selection For one, only 3.9% of those emailed which is obviously a very An obvious concern here is that those who already are more likely to respond to this survey, thus biasing these numbers. For a point of record, although over 40,000 faculty were asked to participate in this survey, I certainly did not participate, nor do I ever recall seeing It should also be noted that scientists make up only Less than a quarter of those who responded come from physics, astronomy, or related fields. It's unclear whether the remainder So these results are useful for understanding how some of US academics think about UAPs, but it doesn't really in this video, how do scientists think about it? So I conducted my own of some colleagues working the Search for To me, this is surely given that they should apriori the most deeply given their field of concentration. Now, obviously my survey should be taken with a huge grain of salt because it hasn't gone through peer review or followed rigorous standards of polling. I simply wanted to ask including many leaders in the field, what do they think about this? I got a response from everyone I emailed, and only one declined leaving me with 10 completed surveys. So keep in mind, this is But I will say that the names of my participants anonymous, these are the people dominating the scientific discourse. So just keep that in mind. I asked them three questions. First, should astronomers study UAPs? Are they a part of SETI? Three said yes, one said they were indifferent, four said no, and two said, in principle, yes, but in practice, no. For that last category, the sentiment was that there's no reason why UAPs couldn't be a It's just that the existing Next, I asked them how from a scale of zero to 10. The results are pretty polarized here. Seven said 2 or less, but two participants said 8 or higher, and one felt unsure. So overall, definitely a bit I think most were okay with being spent on this question, but in a relative sense, it's a rather low priority In question three, I asked them what their reaction mirroring the question that 8 of the 10 SETI scientists said that they were unconvinced by them, saying such things as that they were likely or just simply not aliens. I will note some nuance here that one of them said that their but then after watching Mick West videos, they became less convinced. And a second said that although they were after speaking to the pilots directly, they became more intrigued. Of the remaining two one said they were puzzled and another said they As you can see then, there's a diverse range of But broadly, I think there is an open-mindedness about the idea of studying UAPs, but at the same time a consensus that the current data is which I think mirrors in this video. As we all know, there are new stories running on UAPs on an almost weekly basis at this point. So my opinion may certainly And you know what? That's how science should be. We don't make definitive judgments until the evidence is conclusive and we change our minds But speaking for myself, I'm gonna need to see reliable data with quantifiable false positive rates, reproducible methodologies, and archival data which is the same way that I would treat any scientific claim. So although I'm skeptical for now, I'm open-minded. And hey, I think this would genuinely be the most exciting discovery So let's keep our eyes open. I do think UAP is bringing to about how we interpret evidence in an unbiased and consistent manner. In fact, over the last few months, I've been working on a new paper to try and develop such that could treat everything, from fossils or Mars to Radio SETI, from UAPs to buyer signatures. And on top of that, we have projects in my team and alien artifacts on the moon. So please, no one accuses us of not being interested in this question. But I will say that the stigma and this kind of work is which is why I am so to my research team, the Cool Words Lab, who allow us to pursue this So lemme just take a quick moment to thank our latest two supporters. That is Patrick Muzyka who have pledged in making this happen. As always, if you have and think we are worth it and want to help out our research team, then please consider making by checking on the link To finish, I'm gonna play us out with a few interviews I at a recent SETI conference held at Penn State just a few weeks back. So you can hear from them Please do let me know what do you think. Where do you land on this discussion? And as always, thank you so much watching. Stay thoughtful and stay curious. - Adam Frank, University of Rochester, professor of astrophysics. I'm all for an open agnostic search for investigation of UAPs. I don't think they have anything to do with life on other planets because we've never seen any evidence that would point to that - Hi. I'm Dawn Gelino, I'm the deputy director of the NASA Exoplanet Science Institute - Dawn, what do you think of UAPs? Are they scientifically interesting and are you studying them? - I do think they're potentially Although we don't have a lot We have hearsay and - I'm Anamaria Berea. I'm an associate professor I think they are amazingly not because they are related to aliens or extraterrestrial life, but mostly because it's what they are about. And as scientists, we want to find out if it's an interesting if these are about cognitive So yeah. It's very interesting to find