Hey everyone, so some of you may be aware most notably with this lengthy response to For about two months now, the comments section of activity, with hundreds of flat earthers Now for people who claim that "globetards" you guys sure do all say the exact same things. And I don't just mean the same arguments, it was copied and pasted from some manifesto. This is because you all watch the same ridiculous con men, and you all quote them verbatim without So now, after becoming intimately familiar to do one more video sharing the ten things If you're a regular person and you haven't want to check those out first for a little But if you are a flat earther yourself then to you throughout this video. Let's begin. Number one. One extremely problematic side effect of taking is that gravity makes no sense, and there All objects accelerate towards the ground That's an indisputable fact, and it is also requires a force to produce it. This is how cars drive, planes fly, people motion works. Even charlatans like the globebusters accept on their rants about magnetic magic, as you But quite comically, most flat earthers don't Most of you address this problem by simply Density, and buoyancy. Well, I hate to break it to you guys, but Forces are vectors. They have a magnitude, which means a numerical have to point somewhere. Density is simply mass per unit volume, or It doesn't point anywhere. And buoyancy is simply a measurement of an So allow me to repeat. THESE ARE NOT FORCES. This is trivial to prove. You say that objects fall down because they Why down? Why not up? Or sideways? When you let go of a ball, there is air all How does it know to fall down? Also, objects fall down when they are in a them. What's happening there? Face the facts. Things accelerate down towards the ground That force is gravity, which pulls everything its center of mass. Denser things displace less dense things because More mass means a greater gravitational attraction. This is clearly why things that are less dense exists. Rocks are pulled down harder than water, which Some of your more popular retorts to this while birds and insects can fly. It's because birds and insects have wings. They flap them and generate an upward force. If that force exceeds the gravitational force, Oceans can't do this, because oceans don't Individual water molecules can evaporate and so tiny. But when they get up to where it is colder condense back into liquid water, and guess They fall back down as rain. Hopefully you are familiar with rain. As for planes and other macroscopic objects, When you throw a ball up into the sky, the greater than the gravitational force, but is being applied, and only the gravitational gets smaller and smaller, hits zero, at which and faster until it hits the ground. Gravity. Gravity exists. Period. Saying it is "just a theory" does nothing is. Stop repeating what you hear on flat earth Number two. Flat earthers all say "I shouldn't see Then to justify this claim, you all say the 8 inches per mile squared. None of you have any idea what this means. You can't derive it. You can't calculate anything with it. You can't make a prediction with it. You can't tell me anything about this value When I point this out to you, you get very you just link me to a bunch of videos made Well I'm sorry friends, those people are they are counting on the fact that you won't 8 inches per mile squared is not a valid way If you understood math, you would immediately out of place. That's because this is a parabolic approximation. This is for doing calculations with a parabola. It's possible that you remember this shape be surprised if you don't. As you can see, the earth is not shaped like So where does it come from, and why do people It comes from the flat earth bible, Zetetic they know it's not accurate. It gives them incorrect values that they can to see something, when in fact they totally There are dozens of videos on youtube demonstrating formula that actually describes earth's Stop blindly repeating what you hear on flat that you can do these calculations for yourself. Number three. All flat earthers say the same two things The first is "water doesn't curve", The second phrase is completely meaningless, verbatim is just one of the many demonstrations without giving it a moment's thought. As for the first phrase, stating that water however, it is dead wrong. Put a drop of water on a piece of wax paper, What does it look like? A freaking sphere! Isn't that something? In your haste to mindlessly parrot what you you forgot to look at water. Water curves, my friends. Look at this curved meniscus. Look at these waves. Water curves all the time. Water is not magic. It is subject to influence by external forces With a spherical water droplet, that's the Water molecules make hydrogen bonds with one as cohesive forces. That's why water has a very high surface And that's why a water droplet remains spherical, bonds that are formed, and keep the system So clearly and indisputably, water curves. In this example it is due to the electromagnetic It is therefore quite easy to understand that Including gravity. The oceans conform to the curvature of the same reason. This is why saying that "water finds its You think that level means flat, as though project into space at some arbitrary angle. In fact, level just means as close to the What's most hilarious is that even in the gravity exists, there is a curved bubble right If the bubble is curved, what is the liquid, It curves! It is absolutely astonishing how the things with even the most trivial every day observations. You should acknowledge that. Number four. You are all quite perplexed about how earth's space. This one is rather amusing, because what's education, your only context for the word And again, because you have no science education, works, which is a problem, because you seem Let's take a moment and clear this up. A vacuum is any region where there is no stuff. Here there is stuff. Like air. In space, there is no stuff, or at least very Space is essentially empty. That's a vacuum. It is not a thing that sucks. Vacuums don't suck. Everyone say it with me together. Vacuums don't suck. Earth's atmosphere displays a gradient because There's a lot of atmosphere right near the and fewer molecules will have enough kinetic thinner and thinner until there's none left. Then you're in space. It's that simple. Number five. One of your favorite little "gotcha" challenges, can stick to a ball spinning at a thousand The implication is that water and everything thrown from a merry-go-round. Well it's very cute that you get overwhelmed actuality the earth spins once per day. One time in twenty four hours. Get on a merry-go-round and have someone push Not a very thrilling ride, is it? The issue is that the earth is really really So if instead of using rotational velocity person, you try to use linear tangential velocity, But to be honest, it's still not really Planes go more than half that speed, and sitting is just like sitting on a chair on the ground. Flat earth priests cite these big velocities purely for shock value, and you're falling Stop doing that. Furthermore, this little "water doesn't straw man that was ever made of straw. The earth is huge. It generates an enormous gravitational field. That's why everything sticks to it. A ball is very tiny. It does not generate an enormous gravitational Also, unless you're doing this in space, which as we just said, generates an enormous So when water drips off the ball onto the fails because gravity exists. Stop asking for ridiculous and impossible object to show you how water sticks to something Number six. Lots of you say that moonlight is cold. This is astonishing for a number of reasons. The first is that it is not related to any to argue for a flat earth. But the second, and much more important detail, the fact that you have no clue how science Some flat earth priest measured the temperature something providing shade. Wow! Moonlight makes it colder! But does it? Shouldn't you add some element of control What's a control you ask? Fair question. You see, your measurement isn't evidence You now have to repeat the experiment when moonlight was indeed the cause of the discrepancy This is something you should have learned finish the experiment for you. Take the measurements again on a night with Look at that! You'll get the same result. So the moonlight absolutely wasn't the reason What was the reason? Well that thing that is providing the shade that is emanating from the earth while it So, case closed. I'll link to at least one empirical demonstration See how important it is to know how to do Maybe you should actually learn science, rather earth videos. Number seven. Many of you say some unintelligible nonsense globe model, some rivers flow uphill. This one is so stupid that I genuinely can't You'll look at a globe and say that a river because you seem to think that up on the screen Well how about if I turn this a little bit? What do you know! Now it's down. Listen up. There is no up and down in space. This is not up. This is not down. To believe so would be as dumb as thinking be facing is north. No one on earth is upside down, or on their Up on earth is away from the surface of the Rivers flow from higher elevation to lower you are from the surface of the earth. This has nothing to do with flowing in any This is also why people who make videos acting between various sea level locations around This is sea level. This is sea level. This is above sea level. This is above sea level. That's what elevation means. Learn the definitions of words before you Number eight. Many flat earthers remain dumbfounded by the the sun in winter than in summer. As I've said before, winter up north is So your confusion is one of northern hemisphere But it is also one of complete ignorance. Here's the earth. Here's the light coming from the sun. Look at this portion. It hits the earth straight on. Look at this portion. Because of the curvature of the earth, the therefore distributed around a greater area. Same amount of heat distributed around a larger This is absolutely trivial to understand. It's why magnifying glasses can focus light It's how heat works. Flat earth priests know this, they just pretend their viewers won't check up on. Number nine. Many flat earthers refer to the body of scientific This is meant to be derogatory, implying that I'm very sorry, but saying this just demonstrates didn't pass a single science class in high Science students are not told what to believe. They are shown how to perform experiments. Even in high school physics, students use carts and rulers and timers to derive Newton's They personally do the science that has already knowledge that we already know, and prove This continues through college, and then on own research and figure out things that no So using the word scientism only serves to science. In actuality, it is quite clear why you adopt Because you just accept whatever you hear This is why your beliefs are baseless. Since you are incapable of doing anything assume that others are doing the same thing. But they are not. Those that are educated in the sciences understand to build technology, such as computers and that the science that produced them isnt real, cut it with a knife. And to wrap things up, number ten. The piece de resistance. The claim that we have all been indoctrinated. That we have been brainwashed, by schools, by Hollywood. Take your pick. Well, as I have demonstrated in this clip, word for word, like you're reciting the a rather silly accusation to be throwing around. The fact that you all say the same things What do you do when you want to brainwash You tell them they have already been brainwashed. That's what flat earth priests do. They tell you that you've been brainwashed brainwashing. They tell you that everything you know is It's human psychology 101. Why do they do this? Money. Status. It's a way for con men to capitalize on of ignorance and suggestibility. It's a cult. You're part of a cult. Not like the "kill yourselves with kool-aid" So get angry, call me a shill, call me whatever I guarantee that many of you will attempt about while commenting on this very video, Most of the rest will avoid addressing anything flat earth talking points. But hopefully a small handful of you will for a hoax. It's not that big a deal. Many of us have fallen for hoaxes or been included. Just admit it to yourself and walk away. And when you're ready to learn science in Thanks for watching.