[smooth jazz music] [drive buzzes] - [Clint] Oh yes. Look at that. Greetings, and welcome of something delightfully new old stock. And this right here is something I have never seen before complete in the box like this, This is gonna be really special. This is an IBM ThinkPad 380ED, Model 26356AU, which is a laptop notebook Sold through 1998 before being but yeah, you can see this on November 17th, 1997. And yeah, it's still in the How in the world did this happen? Well, this is all thanks to the generosity of an LGR patron named Matt Hrushka. He got in touch on the and said, hey, I got this thing, it looks amazing, but I Would you like the honor of And I'm like, [chuckles] are you kidding? But yeah, I'm just going to &quot;Greetings from Santa Barbara,&quot; he says. &quot;I'm a bit of an IBM collector and amazingly came across I had gone back and forth or cracking it open and enjoying it. Decided that it's just too good of a find to sit on a shelf,&quot; I agree. So he'd like as many people to share in the unboxing as possible, with requests being to leave stickers and film intact if possible, but I can open it up and And also, &quot;Please install 'Doom' on it.&quot; A special copy is included inside. This right here. Look at that Yeah. Aw yeah, there we go. So this is the mail-ordered Version 1.666. [chuckles in evil] And I do have a copy of this myself, but awesome to have his on here. So this will be the first thing but of course, I'm also expecting... I mean, just all sorts of cool things, because it's got Windows 95 and whatever IBM decided Thing is, I don't know if this Of course, there's only opening it up and plugging so we're gonna go ahead and But I do expect that, you know, maybe the batteries might not be going. There's the CMOS battery and, of course, the laptop battery itself. So who knows? We'll see. If you'd like to go ahead and go right here to this That's when the actual But real briefly, though, I just wanted to go over so you know what it is we're getting into. So this this is a printout from It had been withdrawn from But yeah, Pentium MMX 166 CPU, fantastic. A CD-ROM and a floppy drive That was one of the big Before that you had to swap And this version being the 6AU model, it's got a 3-gigabyte hard disk and a 12.1-inch TFT color display. And of course, a NeoMagic MagicGraph That should be awesome. And 16 megs of memory installed. Among all the other things And another thing I always try to figure out with these things is what it would've cost brand new, because the fact that This one, apparently, for like 23, 24 years or whatever, unopened, but bought So how much did they spend Well, here is the original IBM price list I found from the announcement. So this is from 1997. This is this model $5,199! [laughs] Imagine spending that much and then just never using the thing. Now, this is the original from IBM themselves to So, of course, the street So this is an article from CNET announcing the same series So they talk about the one 2-gig hard drive, Of course, this is the so it was definitely more than $3,899. If I had to guess, maybe around $4,000, maybe a little more than that for this particular model brand new. But, of course, the street price. There were always actually in a store or from either in person or ordered. So you can see one here that And this was a little bit later. I think this was the end of 1997 or the beginning of 1998. I'm gonna say 4,000 bucks So yeah, that's enough ogling It is just paper, after and it's the contents, all the electronical So let's go ahead and open this and try to keep these things intact. Yeah, let's just unbox a [smooth jazz music] [voiceless, respectful unboxing] All right, security seal is broken. And it looks like these cardboard Ooh. Ooh! Hoo-hoo! Ah. Ho-ho! It is hard not to just go crazy here. So straight away we with that style of artwork IBM was using in the late '90s there. &quot;Quick Setup Guide provides you with information on how to Well gosh, I would hope so. Oh, look at that! Just numbers and pictures. Basically just put the battery Good times. And around back we got Yeah, there's the startup thing Hopefully we won't see that. &quot;Operating system screen. You Look at that. Japanese versions Okay, let me move my camera here so we can get a little Oh yes. [laughs] This is really neat to see all of these in their original distribution, instead of just loose. So accessories. Look at these. Got a new lithium-ion battery there. Who knows if that'll still hold a charge? Course, the AC adapter. And a nipple. Oh, a couple nipples, mm. These are worth their You used to be able to Now, to get this particular it can be rather with the fuzzy, kind Anyway. Like, you can still get 'em. They're just not as easy to And here we go. Ooh. A substantial portion of paperwork. Mmm. [chuckles] &quot;PUBG.&quot; &quot;PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds&quot; Group? &quot;Tips for using tour IBM Uh... Yeah, don't use it inside of a volcano, don't drop it off a And lift this out of the way. Ooh. Yeah! Software, I'm assuming. Oh-ho-ho. And the ThinkPad. Ooh, that came right outta there, so that glue has deteriorated. It's kinda nice, actually. I like not having to cut it apart or tear it open or anything. Yeah. Look at all this stuff. Let's see what we got here, man. A little booklet thingy. &quot;International service information.&quot; It's just phone numbers for all the IBM places And got some stickers. &quot;Need Help?&quot; Wow. [laughs] Four of 'em! If you really need help, just Ooh, a special offer inside. A special offer in the Did you get anything for &quot;For completing and returning IBM will send you a nameplate you can place in the cover indentation to personalize your IBM computer.&quot; Now that's cool. Look at that! A custom nameplate on a ThinkPad? Did anybody do that? Let Oh man, and all kinds CompuServe, of course. Premier protection for IBM whatever. Artisoft CoSession Remote? &quot;Access your PC from [laughs] AOL 3.0. 50 free hours! Yeah, I remember these diner ads. Ooh. Never seen this exact It's a little larger than And some license agreement stuff. Oh, a bunch more license agreement stuff. Well, yeah. IBM. &quot;Hints and tips for using Neat. &quot;Read me first.&quot; Hmm. &quot;Thanks for purchasing an IBM I totally purchased this. &quot;The Recovery CD...&quot; Okay, that's awesome too. That can be rather hard to find, some of these ThinkPad recovery things. You find a lot of the drivers but having the original media Yeah. What do we got here? CardWorks, CardSoft, CardWizard, a lot of the PC card programs. Cool. &quot;Personal carrying cases for ThinkPad.&quot; These are kinda hard to find too. I've been trying to find one for my 380XD. Haven't yet found one. Look at these things. With the cool leather Here's a full overview, in case anybody's curious. Looks like the most expensive one is the Executive Leather one, $280 U.S. And now, of course, the star of the show. I mean, it's all the star, but this is like the star among stars. Oh, man. This is crazy. [laughs] Just seeing one of these They're always in such... Not always, but they're usually because of the materials that They get all gouged up and and it's weird seeing The IBM styrofoam. Ooh, what is this? &quot;Important, I suppose we will. &quot;Before And license stuff. Yeah, I accept everything in 1997's agreements. Now, can we keep this intact? [laughs] I have my doubts. This Let's just try our best to [mellow lo-fi music] All right. Man, I feel like [laughs] I'm gonna get some gloves. Nobody wants excited on their new ThinkPad. [laughs] Oh! Would ya look at that? Yeah. That is incredible. That is by far the best-looking I have ever seen. [laughs] And I've seen a good few of them. I've had probably four over the years. Only one ED and that was a long time ago. This... Aw, man. Yeah, I'll have it out next so you can get an idea, but... Suffice to say they never look this good. Aw! Fresh ports! [whispering] Aw, look at this! Oh yeah. Look at that! [inhales deeply] So yeah, it really has that classic late-'90s computer smell. It's like a slightly acrid... [laughs] You know, you can tell it's... [inhales] It's degrading, it doesn't smell as good as it would've completely brand new. It almost hits the back of That's just the plastics and the rubbery coating that it has on here. It's just that smell, I don't know. If you've smelled it, you know what it is. Not a bad smell, but not like that new-car with certain things that are But yeah, just... Man. All this being so nice underneath. These get so scuffed up so easily 'cause, you know, they for at least a good 10 years. Yeah, that Windows 95 blue sticker there. I really like that. And again, untouched, not scuffed. All those clean battery This is where the RAM will be. And there should be a that we may have to replace. We might. I will go ahead and do that if I have the battery Yeah, there is really one of the biggest selling points of this. You got the slim CD-ROM and slim 3.5-inch high-density integrated in one so you don't This was one of, if not the first, ThinkPads in this price range to do that. 'Cause yeah, you'd only on the previous ones. We've got two PCMCIA PC card slots. A wonderful power button PS/2 mouse and AC adapter there. Nice to see one of those AC connections that is not complete crap. Those things fall apart. Here we go. I don't wanna Even on a wood tabletop. So let's see what we got here. Look at this! Oof. Yeah. Ooh, that's a sight to behold. Brand-new TrackPoint nub. Untouched keyboard. Got the fantastic black I've always loved the way that looks. A lot of these you see, Yeah. Really enjoy the keyboards on these. They're quite nice. Nothing mechanical, of And these are solid things to And then, of course, You got the brightness right there. Absolutely pristine. Wild to see one of these or just anything that after 23 years. Got the little microphone So. [laughs] I mean, we knew it was gonna be gorgeous, but yeah, this is... This is wonderful. I'm gonna go ahead and get see if the batteries are Got my doubts, but who Sometimes the CMOS will be okay if it's just sitting in This, I don't know. Let's hope that it all just And try out this delightful 1997 380ED for the first time since it Ah! This is a good day. [smooth jazz music] Okay, so that is the AC adapter and a power cable ready to go. And the lithium-ion or at least try out and see if it works. And yeah, almost forgot about the other package of documentation, all the stuff that is in here. And inside of there you we'll just briefly go over here. So we got the main user's Some additional information Lotus SmartSuite 97, Windows 95 OSR 2, a ThinkPad options guide, and the recovery CD-ROM and And yeah, in there you have a CD, as well as a boot disk so and then get into CD-ROM support and do the recovery stuff for the system. Aw man, and I was really hoping to be able to image this CD, but this is something The plastic of the CD sleeve is basically adhered to It's just stuck on there. I guess heat, over time, to the point where I was not at least not confidently and safely. And it actually looks had started to pull away at the data side of the disk as well. I'm just not even gonna I just can't get it out of there safely, so I'm gonna leave it to Matt to do whatever he wants with it. But yeah, that's all that. Let's go ahead and finally Gonna get the battery in there first, just to see if it works. And the power. Right back here. Ooh. I saw lights. All right. Moment of truth. Ooh! Hey. We got a 161 and a 163 error. That is completely expected. So that means we do have And we can actually get the without that battery. We just put in the information But instead, I am actually going to see if I have a replacement for it. Okay. Ooh. Nice and tight screw. I swear I'm not trying It just kinda happens. [chuckles] Okay. Hey, there we go. So that is where you And then there's the little coin cell. What is that? A CR1220. This one's a little bit of a smaller boy. Yep. There's that. Little Sony CR1220 3-volt. A bit smaller than the 2032s. So I do happen to have some of these. And there we go. Nice and simple. Awesome. All right, so... [chuckles] Let's hope that is the only thing that we're gonna have to do. I'm assuming it is. All right, so 173 error, which means we'll have to go into the... Yeah, so we got the time to fix and then just general BIOS stuff. Mmm, Y2K compatibility. Hey, Flerbnerb, what time is it? - [Flerbnerb] It's 12:36 p.m. - [Clint] Okay. So that's that. And I don't think we'll have But... This is the BIOS. I always liked the little custom and things that they've got in here. All right, and now, hopefully, we shouldn't have any errors on startup. [ThinkPad beeps] Nope, none at all. Excellent. Ah! Windows 95. Never been booted. [laughs] Oh, this is nuts, man. It's just been sitting there Oh yeah! Mmm. Well, I'm not gonna I don't know. You can change this later, Okay, so I got the serial... That'll be in the documentation. All right. &quot;Windows 95 Oh, dude. [Windows 95 startup music] Okay, let's get some sound I'm gonna put my time zone because that's where I am, anyway. This is interesting. I don't think I've ever actually done an OEM first-time setup I usually just install it fresh myself. Well, not usually. Always. The fact that we're doing it through a factory installation thing... Wow! Oh. So yeah, this is just how Look at all the things! All this stuff right over here is just your standard Windows 95. Then you have Complete Netscape &amp; IBM's Global Network. Okay. PointCast. Preloaded Applications. 380E Presentation. [laughs] ThinkPad Information. ThinkPad Tools. Uninstall a 380E demo, and just something called ThinkPad. Let's just open that. Oh, okay. Fuel! [laughs] All right. So we got some I guess showing the charge That's cool. Personalization Editor. What? It's some sort of Wallpaper. That's that. So, Register, that's We don't need to do that. ThinkPad Tools. Okay, IBM AntiVirus, Registration, CardWorks. Diskette Factory. That's probably the thing that allows you to recreate diskettes from images. You can just make your for a lot of the things that it uses. All right, Preloaded IBM Online Housecall, mmm. NetFinity. Good ol' Transit for parallel PointCast. I'm assuming infrared, maybe? Netscape &amp; IBM's Global Network. A lot of online things and but that is to be expected considering the intended use case of this. [&quot;Chord&quot; notification plays] &quot;Complete ThinkPad customization I don't wanna do that yet. Let's see what's in the... Yeah, Presentation here. &quot;Welcome to the IBM ThinkPad Presentation. It highlights the most It starts a video, &quot;And will run continuously Okay. Well, I'm excited [smokin' guitar lick plays] Oh! ThinkPad. [upbeat, extremely '90s music] [Clint laughs] Portability. [jet engines roar] Versatility. - This is wonderful. [Clint laughs] Innovation. ThinkPad. A better place to think. - [Clint] Uh-huh. Man, the '90s-ness of it. Good grief. So yeah, those speakers sound - [Narrator] Convenience. - [Clint] Yeah, they're never on this series of ThinkPads, but they at least don't like a lot of 'em I've heard, 'cause over they years they These sound pretty good. - [Narrator] Now! ThinkPad. A better place to think. - All right. It's small enough to affordable enough to suit your budget. The ThinkPad. For home, It gives you the performance at an attractive price you'll appreciate. - [Clint] Affordable, huh? - [Narrator] Say hello that's got it all. Cool screen. Hot sound. [intense guitar chord blasts] Unique keyboard. And all at an incredibly affordable price. - [Clint] Notice they 'Cause it's like four grand. [laughs] At least for this one. You could get one, but this is supposed to be sort But amongst its competitors it was still more expensive than those. However, you paid for so whatcha gonna do, right? Oh yeah, look at all these. All the bloat. I mean included programs All right, yeah. Look at Oh, man. These are all These'll be like image files. Yeah, look at that. So you can use that utility to just write your own recovery disks. Very, very handy stuff. All right. System Properties. IBM logo nicely displayed there. COM2 is disabled. And you got that class Crystal Let's see what we got for 220, 5, 1, 0 for the IRQ and DMA. See if we can put that sound Wait a second. I have not opened Canyon. I was seriously about to do that. [laughs] It's already in the recently I guess that was like... What's this other thing? And Canyon, those were the two things that were previously opened, I guess by IBM at the factory? 'Cause yeah, I haven't actually [lively midi music] [high notes warbling] Yeah, it's that weird Crystal chip. [mellow midi music] Certain sounds always sound a little off. They're just kinda like when they should be a Anyway. I guess... Well, maybe we'll just open this. Then we'll boot back into Windows [&quot;Tada&quot; notification plays] Hmm. I don't know what it's doing. It restarted the computer to do the customization program, but... Oh, here we go. Here we go. [Windows 95 startup music] Eh... What did this do? Okay. So it's added mouse trails, it gave us a custom background, so I guess when they meant customization, they meant like, &quot;Here's the IBM stuff,&quot; instead of just that factory-clean look. I mean, that's kinda cool, but that's not exactly I was expecting to choose This is just like, &quot;Here's from IBM. All right, put that back, at least. I mean, I dig the background, but... [laughs] So anyway. Okay. Well, let's go ahead and I'm just going to assume the Let's see. [&quot;Tada&quot; notification plays] We could've just installed Why not do it in more pure DOS, if we can? All right, so it does. CS4232 stuff going there with Ooh, this is special. Putting a disk in there Ooh. Excellent. By the way, I've already backed up all the contents of the hard disk, just really quick earlier. Wanted to make sure that I had before we started modifying stuff. Unfortunately I didn't do did its customization deal Hmm. Enjoy some floppy [floppy drive clicking and buzzing] [hard drive chittering] Nice. Let's get the Sound Oh yeah. [ominous music] There we go. Running [zombies growl] [energetic E1M1 music] Okay. [gunshots pop] I know you're over here. Where are ya? Jerk. [jerk moans] [zombies screaming and groaning] [cacophony of carnage roaring] There we go. [gunfire popping] And you will notice the This is not a 640x480 screen. It's 800x600 native. By default you get these black borders around anything that is over 640x480. Or in this case, 320x200. I believe there is a way but I've been sitting and can't, for the life of me, remember what the key combo is. Future LGR here. Quick update on that. Yeah, it's Function+F8. And that will do the on the 380 series, among others. It's not terribly but in movement it's pretty okay. At least in something like this. Now, if I were to go over into, you know, games with crispier 2D graphics, it looks truly terrible, as does text. But anyway, Function+F8, for your information and also for mine, 'cause I always forget that. All right, so that is &quot;Doom.&quot; The inaugural [laughs] &quot;Doom&quot; kickoff. A wonderful way to begin this But yeah, I suppose that's just in terms of, &quot;Hey, It works. It's beautiful. It's brand new, effectively. Let's actually see if the Hey. We've got power. It says 80% remaining. Who knows what kind of but that's awesome. So the included battery is working and charging up. That is a rare sight indeed. I have never actually seen Welp. Maybe I spoke too soon. [laughs] I plugged the power back Anyway, I was gonna say, never actually see one of those originally batteries that worked that hadn't been rebuilt But, you know, I guess the fact that it had never actually been used gave it a better chance, I don't know. I'm kinda surprised by that, that it holds a charge as well as it is. All right, and a couple other And of course, this being we've gotta check out Let's try the CD-ROM. Mmm. That's a fresh-lookin' tray. Yeah, that's right. We're We've got the original CD because we gotta use it. It's a new CD-ROM! That's special. [DUKE] And we just gotta get Which this machine is with its awesome CPU and stuff. [explosions roar] [music chugging] Little bit of slowdown as but so it goes. There we go. - [Duke] Come get some! Those alien bastards are gonna [troopers scream] - [Clint] Yeah. Runs quite good on that Pentium 166. - [Duke] Who wants some? - [Clint] Obviously not gonna but it doesn't matter. Duke Nukem. One thing I did notice, though, is it definitely seems to support Sound Blaster original just fine, or like a Sound Blaster clone. It didn't want to work at all with the Sound Blaster 16 and Sound Blaster Pro 2 also didn't work, but anything lower than that did. So, you know, that's just down [gunfire blaring] - [Duke] Who wants some? - [Clint] There we go. Anyway, looks good, It's Duke Nukem. Got no complaints. And yeah, nothing special In fact, I think it's only like It's not a 3D accelerator, but I do want to try a 3D game, &quot;Pod.&quot; Seeing as it is a system from 1997, we may as well try a game from 1997. One of my absolute favorites. Now, I have this installed already with the largest installation, so we have the max amount And it is the MMX-enhanced So there's no 3D acceleration. It's not even doing Direct3D. This is just gonna be in software, but running with the [haunting music] - [Narrator] It'll be over soon. Everything will be gone and - [Clint] Not by me, it This is always my go-to test and no earlier, no later, because this game is so tricky to run, even on original hardware like this. And yeah, it's not going to It's just skipping around You can't change the graphical options because we're not running So let's just get into a race real quick. - [Announcer] [audio stuttering] Fi-four! Three! Two! One! [audio stuttering] Go! - [Clint] Yeah... It's trying its best. It really is. [energetic music] But this particular processor and this really crappy, crappy ah, just not enough. You would need either obviously that'd be very helpful, or... A decently quicker CPU. A 233-megahertz Pentium or your equivalent Cyrix chip, those are pretty much ideal for this game. However, you go much faster than that and the game doesn't work. You go much slower than this and, well, it's gonna be complete anus in terms of the performance, so... Yeah. But hey. I mean, it's playable, I suppose. Just not very great at all. And honestly, that's when in software mode on this processor and all the other things 16 megs of RAM, you know. 32 would be a little bit It just really the loading and skip-and skip-and skip-and skippiness. Okay, and for one final thing here before we wrap up this video, I'm gonna bring out my own My favorite one that I own, anyway. This is the 380XD I restored Yeah! So as you can see, externally they are, of course, very similar-looking. It's the internals that [startup music overlapping] Mm. A crazy delay effect, kind That's an interesting sound in person. Anyway, yeah. Externally Of course, they're in the same 380 series of ThinkPads from IBM in 1997. It's just this one is about 10 times better I mean, this one's still pretty But yeah, it doesn't I wish it did. I love that sticker. And it has a bunch of things just in different positions, So the microphone and the speakers are in different spots on mine here. The volume knob is on the left side instead of the right side, so Mm. And then a bunch of other things are just sort of shifted around and slightly tweaked and upgraded. The monitor panels, I think they're slightly different panels. Like this one's a little warmer it looks slightly different to me. But they are still the same Oh. 3D Maze. [laughs] I'll just let the screen But yeah, the biggest where the 380XD on the right, that has a Pentium 233 and 32 megs of RAM by And it also supports more RAM, faster RAM, it's got a USB port, you can more easily replace the hard disk, it comes with a bigger hard disk. There's just all sorts of that just made it a better And for that reason, I just think it's really cool And yeah. Let's test &quot;Pod&quot; once because we can. We're gonna be running the same version, same Obviously this one's loading much faster. It's just faster all around. Okay, and we'll just get the same car, same track, same settings and get 'em side by side. See what we got goin' on. Four! Three! Two! One! - [Left Announcer] Three! Two! - [Clint] Yeah, so. Obviously the 380XD is even though they came out the same year. It's kind of ridiculous. Okay. Whoa! I am so not paying attention to the right screens at the right time. This is bizarre. My brain cannot brain right now. Despite being such similar computers, the performance difference is crazy. And again, running the exact same mode. Same executable. Same MMX instructions. Same full hard disk installation, version of the game, everything. Oh, how did I throw my car I did, though. [laughs] So what was the point of this? Uh, I don't know. I just And I like &quot;Pod,&quot; and I like from '97-'98 with a It's just good times. My Well, I guess that is it for This has been a real delight and an honor to mess around with this Thanks once again to Mr. letting me know that he'd come across this and offering to let me unbox I think it's always great gets to be experienced instead of just one or two in person. These things deserve to Yeah, so just a great And, you know, just being able to get a little bit more familiar and get a little more experience with one of my favorite series I don't know if that's but I have been having so much and I'm gonna continue throughout the rest of the before I send it back It's just an experience that and to have been able to So if you enjoyed, do check out some of my other I've covered plenty of ThinkPads on LGR over the years. I have new videos each so stick around for more if you'd like. And as always, thank you for watching.