(gentle music) (fire crackling) - Hey everyone, welcome to Colorado. Today we're exploring that is located in the gated This exceptional property of stone, steel, and glass to create these amazing vaulted spaces that interact with the outdoors and allow you to be immersed in the natural landscape around you. I can't wait to show you so let's begin. (gentle upbeat music) All right, everyone, let's start our tour. This is the covered entry from the motor court. Beautiful front door, and I love these glass walls that brings so much natural French doors opening that takes you down to the patio, which we're gonna check out later. Flagstone on the floors, love these recessed-in floor lights that lights up this that's on the wall. Again, glass roof above, a lot to take in on this landing. Now, we're gonna see a lot of taxidermy throughout the property. This is a mounted buffalo and I'm not really familiar I feel like, Mikey, you probably know a little bit more than I do. - [Mikey] In Texas, I feel like it's- - [Mikey] Yeah, I feel in kind of these rustic, But it's part of that mountain - Correct. And before we leave here, I This door opens up to another staircase that takes you to the mudroom, and the mudroom is located which we can see from the motor court. Now coming this way, again, you can see our surroundings so clearly. It's so interactive. Everywhere you look, you can see nature, you can see these trees, - [Mikey] Yeah, I can't and snowy climates enough, but I'm really excited to As I look out, some of these so I know it's just gonna to this house as the sun goes down. - Well, we'll see you that later. - Yeah. Now that's it for the entry and the foyer, then we have these glass doors opening up to another staircase that takes us to this incredible space. On my left-hand side, we have the formal living room high ceilings that are vaulted, massive windows bring in natural comfortable seating area on this side, rustic hardwood floors. It's a really unique take And again, the volume Then they ran the stone and the textures and color all of it coming together, it's very cozy, but it feels very contemporary as well. And this is the seating area. A few couches, Eames chairs. This fireplace, and I wanna Number one, never seen this before. I guess glass partition Even though it's a gas fireplace, if you want some protection, - That's very cool. - Usually they have those kind of chain fireplace covers, you know. - Yeah. but you have some protection. Number two, these exposed steel headers that we're gonna see What a beautiful architectural detail. Not only it contrasts nicely but at the same time, seeing the structure and on the interior just gives It's a safe home, and you just Now, let's go to the other side. Formal dining room, square table, which is not something we see quite often. Let's see, three, three, six, eight. I guess 10 to 12 people can - Yeah. and we can have a couple people here, and chandelier above, high ceilings. And even though the space is very volumous between the plaster walls and all the textures coming together, room feels very, very cozy. Now, before we leave here, I also wanna mention off of the landing, we have a powder bathroom And before we go to the kitchen, I actually wanna take everybody outside. Let's check out this beautiful patio. I mean, look at this. Scenery here is breathtaking. Trees, mountains on the all this snow. It's gorgeous. - [Mikey] Yeah, I love this. I said I wasn't gonna talk about it again, so I'm not going to, but I like it a lot. - Something about these mountain homes, like the environment I feel like even though we live in LA and LA has amazing weather, if I lived in a setting like this, I would use outdoors more and I know that sounds kind of twisted, but I just wanna just go and interact with nature. - [Mikey] Yeah, yeah, you're not wearing your suit today, right? - Okay, so I actually but then I was walking no, like this is the outfit, this is how I would walk around, so I was like, I ditched the suit. I hope I look fine. - [Mikey] I'm sure it's a - It is definitely way more comfortable and I just felt like it But yeah, this is one of the throughout the tour and Mikey, can we pull everybody this way? This is the staircase that that brings you to this patio. Now, before we continue, I wanna talk about the specs of this home. We have seven bedrooms, 10 baths, 8,327 square feet, on the And of course, I wanna give big Tye Stockton, for making this so possible. More information about this property will be in the description of this video. And as always, we're and we are thrilled to be - [Mikey] Always stoked to be in Colorado. - All right, let's continue. Now, this is the rest of the patio. We have a built-in barbecue We talk about these all the time. It's a nice touch. And now, let's go back in because we need to tour the kitchen. Modern cabinetry, island in darker tones with the cabinets. Then we have these lighter You have some of the base commercial wine fridge, and your commercial Sub-Zero I dig these. I don't know what it is. It immediately gives - [Mikey] I was gonna say the same thing. Something about just glass refrigerators. I think it's because it makes 'cause you see these in - I mean it's Sub-Zero, But yeah, looks really nice. Mikey, can you actually come this way? - [Mikey] Yeah. - I never wanna overlook Dishwasher drawer. - Oh. I like, I would've looked over I was like, there's - [Mikey] Yeah, is there any like benefit to dishwasher drawers or is it just they're just a little more compact? - 100%, they're smaller. You can run a half load rather - You don't have to bend over - That's the part I really like because I don't have the best back, so this is way easier to fill up. You have your small sink Look at this picture window. Look at these views. Look how you're integrated into nature. And I feel like we're touring mountain homes that are in snowy environments. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's just a little more laid back. Takes us a day or two to - I'm a little bit out of breath. This property is somewhat elevated and it's just like we haven't because we've been traveling a I'm stoked. I wanna talk about all the details. In fact, I forgot one. Butcher block is recessed Never seen this before. - [Mikey] Yeah, I like that. - They've inserted it in. - [Mikey] What kind of - I think they're granite. - [Mikey] They're granite. - I think they're granite. Now let's talk about the gas stove, or should I say stoves because here and then a 48-inch This is one of the biggest we've ever seen. Like we've seen Lahore News, I think the one in Cannes, France. - [Mikey] That's the - Had an insane design and the main kitchen, but this is quite impressive. - [Mikey] Agreed. - Now, above the gas stoves, I like how they hang their pots here. And let's talk about this This reminds me of my hometown. In my hometown in Turkey, they use this kind of natural and it just gives you this timeless look. And I love how they brought this stone to the interior as well. It's just so cozy with the textures and details and it's a nice touch. - [Mikey] I wouldn't expect this stone to remind of your hometown. I always kind of pictured or something like that. - Well, we have those like plaster, white stucco homes as well, but my hometown has more and it just looks timeless. It's just beautiful. And I think that's it for the kitchen. - Yeah. Let's take the staircase here and off of the landing we to the primary bedroom suite. Off of the entry, we have a small desk, windows bring in natural light. This is like a little office. And following the hallway, we but first, let's check out the bathroom, freestanding tub on my left-hand side, tub filler, right next to that water closet, vanity here with two sinks, light box design above, and they actually kept the walls short so it can benefit from the from the walls right behind you, Mikey. So it's nice area. You have the walking closet at the end, just a really nice bathroom. And going back to the hallway again, we have the bedroom itself, king size bed, so much And I gotta say, I'm really It reminds me of the property that we toured in Malibu recently. Not to mention that primary also had a curved ceiling too. - [Mikey] Yeah, that's - And it just gives you this warm feel. And because these are plaster so they just have a lot of character. And looking around, cold Two ceiling now light Again, so many windows, casement sections on Have a telescope here. - [Mikey] That's a very Like you wouldn't, I don't at any stars with that. - It's part of the decoration. - [Mikey] Exactly, yeah. - And yeah, this is the It gets better, follow me. Let's go to this covered patio section. It's a nice addition You can see some of the exposed Unbelievable views. I almost feel like nature is I almost wanna say I prefer it. I prefer that there are but I mean these go for miles, you know? It's pretty special. - [Mikey] Yeah, you made You're like LA developers would clear out these trees immediately. - Yeah, exactly. - If this home was in LA, they would come in and - Yeah. they kept them and it looks really nice and speaking of the trees this is a gated community. They have about 90 home sites. Currently 45 homes are built. We were told that some of the homeowners bought more than one lot, so some of these homes So I'm assuming by the it's all done, they'll which is really nice, it's a nice ratio. I mean, you can barely but it's amazing, it's peaceful. Again, all right, I'll stop talking. Enough with the surroundings, you know. Let's go back in, back to the bedroom because I wanna take everybody It's such a cool area. I mean, where do I begin with the details? Look at this glass roof. Then you have glass walls, stone textures, lighting. And here's something you So the section that we just It's all updated and all that. The section that we are about that was completed a few years ago. - [Mikey] Really? - I know it looks very seamless and you would never is only a few years old. - [Mikey] Yeah. - That's why they ended up section to kind of bridge two structures, but at the same time create And I gotta say, I think this is my - [Mikey] So I guess the kind they probably added that to together when they did the add-on? - That I don't know, but And look at the extensive with the staircase, threads, And it reminds me Remember the property in Hollywood Hills? You have these like exposed columns too. - [Mikey] We talk about - Yeah, it's probably my - [Mikey] Very cool. - And just the amount of even the landing downstairs, so cool. Then they have these to light up the textures on the walls. Scenery, just beautiful. All right, follow me this way. I gotta say for the price point, it's gotta be one of the best homes. That's why we chose this because we just felt and you guys would enjoy it. - [Mikey] Yeah. - Follow me this way. Full bathroom, flagstone on the floors, open walk-in shower, and this is such a cool window bringing natural Cool bathroom. - And then I have to point this out. Look at this art piece here. It's like all these figures - Pint. - [Mikey] I've noticed a very throughout this house in the decor. - Is that what it is too? - [Mikey] Yeah, I mean I'm but like I would say there's a- - You've told us, Mikey. - [Mikey] I would say there's running through the house. - I guess we'll see And then you have your floating LED-lit mirror, really nice bathroom. Now, let's go back to the landing. Right on the other side we Now I know I said that the walkway, the glass atrium is my but as a room to use and enjoy this is probably my favorite part. - [Mikey] Yeah, you can't and read a book. You just pass by. - It has a shed roof design. Now, I don't want that but these single sloped and the volume here, and walls of glass, it's just Look at our surroundings. This is one thing about this how we have all these trees it's just a different view corridor. It's just a different experience and they left the room very open. You have a nice informal dining area here. Mikey, I'm assuming this is moose. - [Mikey] That's a moose. You nailed that one. - Pretty interesting. I've seen a moose in the wild one time. They are intimidatingly large. This is only slightly taller Seeing these things- - [Mikey] Yeah, it's probably a foot and a half, maybe two feet lower, like that's about how - Wow, that's crazy. - And look at the back wall, by the way. So this is an interesting application. You know like those barn homes that we see where they use logs to it's the same technique, They left some of the imperfections, so there's ton of character. Then they fill the gap in to give you this cohesive look. It's more on the modern side. I feel like if they left the it would've looked a but versus this application Now obviously ceilings are all wood clad. Then we have the main seating two chairs facing the TV on that side. This is kind of a interesting take. They didn't mount the TV so you can come here, sit or you can just relax here. - [Mikey] I'm sure the TV pivots as well. - I'm sure. - [Mikey] It has to be on an arm, yeah. - Correct. Then we have this beautiful fireplace. Again, exposed steel header. So cozy, so beautiful. - And if all of this wasn't enough, then on the other side Look at the island here, the cabinetry, these metal accents and these bar stools. You go to the other side, you Then this is your bar. Glass shelves, LED lighting, built-in fridge, ice maker. It's just a nice addition to the seating and the dining area. - [Mikey] Yeah, and then kind of beer mugs behind the bar as well. They have a name, I can't remember what it's - Looks really nice. - [Mikey] I just talked so I have to follow through. - You had to mention that. - All right, now we're not done Let's open up these sliding this amazing patio. Seamless transition. These sliding glass doors actually stack, they have the same flagstone also here. Glass lead-in, multiple more of the scenery and more And also look, like Mikey, we - [Mikey] Yeah, we're very There's just this whole just community of ski towns around here. Some of the best skiing in the country between Vail and Beaver and Aspen's around the corner, so it's just an awesome location. (gentle music) - You can't pick the wrong mountain town. I think if you're drawn to the mountains, we offer skiing and mountain and music and that really but I think you try to to sort of your culture, a way of life, and for me, Vail was it. I love the idea of being centrally located and you can base out of but there's so many that are close by and we're less than two hours from Aspen, less than two hours from Steamboat. Breckenridge is 45 minutes. It's a place to slow down - And with that, we're done on this floor. Now let's check out the lower level. Look at this staircase stone walls, recessed-in floor lighting, bridge that's above us, we come to another landing point. Now, this hallway takes and the laundry room. That door right there which we're gonna go next, Powder bathroom on my left-hand side, bar on my right-hand side opening up to the movie theater. Rick Diner chairs, padded Screen is on this side. It's not the biggest movie theater, but I think it's perfect Next we're gonna check out the patio. (gentle beat music) We have a hot tub here, considering the fact that You can just get in, relax, get yourself a little hot or cold therapy. - [Mikey] Have you ever been in a hot tub when it's snowing outside? - No. - [Mikey] It's a fantastic experience. I can't really explain it - I'm sure, and yeah, This is unbelievable. Then patio continues. Fire pit here, outdoor seating. These three glass sections that we're gonna check out in a minute. And I love, even with these glass windows, they left the steel headers exposed. Do you know what those steel headers do? - [Mikey] I'm guessing they - Correct. So there is a column here and because it's a big opening, you need a very strong material - [Mikey] Yeah. - A lot of traditional They're strong, but if you really wanna go for that bulletproof strength, you just use steel and - [Mikey] Makes sense. - All right, let's check - [Mikey] Let's do it. - So we have the first bedroom here, comes with a king size Also has its own full bathroom. Then following the hallway, This one has two single Of course comes with another And going towards the end of the hallway, laundry room with a sink. And the last door opens up full size bed, hardwood And this was the window assembly In fact, you can see the spacious, and around the corner, we have a full bathroom here. Tile floors, tile walls, brushed nickel fixtures, Now, I promise this is the last jump, but I want to take everybody so we can continue our Hardwood floors. This wing has three bedroom suites. This is the first one off of the entry, Mikey, let's go check it out. Full bathroom. I like these beige tones. Pebble stone in the walk-in shower, brushed nickel fixtures. I just realized, look at the ceilings. - [Mikey] I was wondering if I noticed this. - It's super cool. You have your floating And there's actually a picture window to benefit from the natural King size bed. You have two niches for some massive windows, more views. Good vibe. - [Mikey] Yeah, very nice. - All right, let's go check which is right next door. Pretty much the same layout. Comes with a king size bed, So yeah, this is the second Now, the last bedroom is here, and I love this bedroom because we have so many bunk beds here. This is like my wild dream as a kid. You have four queen beds here, And between the millwork, so cool, so quaint. - [Mikey] Yeah, I love this. I always love queen bunks. You're gonna have to - You want me to go up there? - [Mikey] Yeah, you gotta go up there. - Yeah, okay, I'll go up there, but we gotta talk about this detail. Look how they utilize the space. These are all drawers. - [Mikey] These kinds of things are really popular on Instagram. Like I see these going viral all the time these like space-saving room designs. - Mikey's low key teasing so we can share it. - [Mikey] Maybe we'll share it. Go check out Enes' Instagram, you know. - There you go, what a way to plug it. I'm going up there and let's see. All right. Okay. Oh. - Looks nice. - [Mikey] That looks good. - All right, by the way, there's also a full with a massive sink. I wanted to mention that. Kids are living good in what can I say? And with that, I think but of course, we need to (ethereal music) All right, everyone, Hope you'll enjoy this video. Big thanks to the listing for making this tour possible. And as always, you can about this property in the Now, if you enjoyed our Colorado episode, make sure to give us a like, subscribe, and we'll see you guys next week. (ethereal music)