2026 Nian Xiaonuan, don't want it. Sister , I will drug you and let you be slept with by a wild man. The Fu family agreed to break off the engagement with you and let brother Jing Yan marry me. An Xiaonuan wants to prove your innocence and she should die ! I shouldn't just ruin your face, I should cripple you, it's you My disfigured Nian Nian is the daughter of the Gu family. You, a misguided bastard, have occupied her identity for twenty years. Do you think I shouldn't have said this for her? You took away my parents ' good food and drink. But I have to live a hard life with your biological mother in the countryside. I should have paid you this a long time ago. Mother and daughter, your mother died early , but I poured her ashes into the toilet and made her restless. It's my turn to repay you. Now it's your turn. I won't let you go even if I'm a ghost. I'll wait for you. After your death, I will replace your identity as designer Wanxing and your hundreds of millions of properties. You made good use of it. I'm sorry for late night. I shouldn't have left you. I let you get divorced and gave them a chance to bully you. Fu Sihan, please leave quickly . Fu Sihan, I will never let you go in the next life . Fu Sihan, I will definitely go to you in the next life. I 'm sorry for late night. I will never leave again in my next life You, Fu Sihan, I was reborn . I was reborn on the day I was drugged by Gu Niannian. I was reborn on the day I was drugged by Gu Niannian. It happened to be the revenge of my previous life. Let us calculate it carefully. You can do whatever you want. When reporters come over, they will say that she shamelessly seduced you. Don't worry about this job. I know how to say you, you don't Do you like to catch? I'll let you catch enough. Are you sure Gu Wanwan is here? Are you sure she was set up ? She is in danger now . Wanwan will never let you go in the next life. Fu Sihan, Gu Wanwan, why are you so crazy? Fu Sihan, me. I said I would look for you in this life, I will not let you down, Fu Sihan, you are now You are my person and I will be responsible for you. Shut your mouth. You can't say a word about last night. You definitely don't want people to know that you slept with your engagement partner's brother- in-law. You definitely don't want people to know that you slept with your engagement partner. Have you slept with the brother-in-law of the person you are engaged to be engaged to? I will not be engaged to Fu Jingyan. He has been with Gu Niannian for a long time . I just want to marry you. No wonder you threw yourself into your arms last night and gave me your precious first time. It turns out that you want to take revenge on Fu Jingyan. I didn't. I only want to marry you because I like you . Are you right? Fu Jingyan was determined to sleep with me and then changed his mind, Gu Wanwan. Gu Wanwan, do you think I'm a fool? I don't have Fu Sihan. I'm serious . I love you so much. Do you still pretend to be cool and think I'll be scared away? Fu Sihan, I'm dating you. Gu Wanwan is about to get engaged to Fu Jingyan yesterday. I'll rent a room here with another man at night to be my adoptive parents . I want to ask you what you think. What do you think? Can you give me an answer? Our Gu family has always been strict and does not tolerate shameless people. I will kick her out of the house. After that, she will no longer be my daughter. We have raised her for twenty years and she has been like this. She will be a white-eyed wolf to repay us later. You need to take a clear picture of how she looks without clothes. I want everyone to see how shameless she is . You think a bastard is a bastard. After raising her for so many years, she still can't change her despicable nature . How can she be Nian? I miss you Gu Wanwan. Stop taking pictures. Don't take pictures of your wife just now. You just let us take a clear picture, but you can't go back on your word now. Please let me block Gu Niannian's face. Oh, what's going on? It's so lively. Mom and dad, why is that Niannian's boyfriend? He's quite unique with his sinister features and eyes . Shut up, he's not my boyfriend, he is Your lover, you are ungrateful . You and your sympathizers came to frame Nian Nian and make her embarrassed in public. Mom, you don't usually like to see me, the wrong daughter. Forget it, why are you throwing dirty water on me? Who did this person enter the room with? Just check the surveillance. It's clear that he was the one you found behind Brother Jing Yan's back. Lover , now that we have all the witnesses and physical evidence, you still dare to deny and frame me. How dare you hit Nian Nian's father ? Do you want to do domestic violence to me again because of your sister ? Does Mr. Gu often do domestic violence? Do you want to beat the whole family or only Gu Wanwan ? Have you had any psychological and psychiatric tests done? Are the results normal? Mr. Gu Can you answer my question? My dad doesn't hit people often. Go, go, stop shooting . Mr. Gu, don't go. Mr. Gu, he can only do it a few times a month. You took away my parents, but I have to stay with your biological mother . I should have given your mother and daughter the account of the hard life in the countryside . Personally, I'm keeping an eye on Gu Wanwan because Miss Gu was already in a difficult situation in the Gu family and now something like this happened again. The Gu family will definitely not let her go. The Gu family will definitely not let her go. The president sent people there to protect her, right? Sister , I know you. I don't like it. I feel like I've taken away my parents' favor. But I really have never done anything sorry for you. Why did you frame me? Gu Wanwan , you are such a vicious woman. You did something shameful yourself and you blamed it on Niannian . Apologize to her quickly and say, Huan, it's useless. Gu Wanwan, you. You have to clarify to the outside world that it was you who framed Niannian because of your jealousy, so that you can help Niannian regain her reputation. Gu Niannian did it all on her own. Why should Zishou have to take the blame for her in Wanwan ? Are you a dog? You are such an uneducated dead girl. Do you have the right to interrupt what we are talking about ? Gu Wanwan , please be honest during the press conference. Otherwise , don't say that I am rude to you. Be honest. Shit, stop talking to yourself. Wanwan will not clarify to Gu Niannian who you are and how dare you act arrogant in front of me. Brother Jing Yan, please calm down . Sister, please stop making everyone angry. It hurts . Sister, I just can't bear to see my sister being scolded again . Why are you pinching me ? Okay, you still dare to bully Niannian in front of me. I must teach you a lesson today. Your dad, Niannian dad, do you still want me to clarify it for Gu Niannian? If you really want to clarify it for Gu , are you stupid ? There are photos of Gu Niannian and Fu Jingyan's affair. Of course I have to hold a press conference to help them clarify that you like Fu Jingyan so much. You didn't believe it when I showed you the photos before . I thought you were willing to suffer for him this time. This family is bullying you. You don't even have to hide it. Fortunately, they don't know that you are the chief jewelry designer Wanxing. Otherwise , I will have to rob your little treasury. Xiaonuan, thank you. I won't be stupid again. Xiaonuan , don't. In this life, I will avenge and repay kindness. I will definitely protect you. You said she was chatting about Fu Jingyan. What do I think? The man behind always stares at us and refuses to answer the phone. I'll go to the Fu Group to find you. Hello , I'll find Fu Sihan . Do you have an appointment? If not , just tell him, I don't have an appointment, so get out. Our Fu family is the president of an international group worth trillions . He has a lot to do and has no time to see cats and dogs . What if he wants to see me? What nonsense are you talking about ? Get out! You're here, CEO, you're fired. Why is it that a mediocre front desk officer like you deserves to stop Ms. Gu, CEO? I was wrong again. Give me a chance. What are you doing here ? I'm here to propose. Fu Sihan, wait a minute. Get out of the car. No, Fu Sihan. I really want to marry you. Do you believe me? Okay? If you like Fu Jingyan, just don't mess with me , Fu Sihan. Han, you come to attend, you come to the press conference , I will let you understand why Fu Sihan hasn't come yet, she won't regret it, right? Come on, you kick her out of the house. Without her status as the daughter of the Gu family , I have a reason to ask Mr. Fu to cancel the engagement . Gu Wanwan is here. You are here to clarify for Niannian , not to show off. Dress up like this and show off to others. Of course, you are here. It's worth watching. Sister, your set of jewelry is made by Master Wanxing. It's very expensive. Which wild man gave it to you? Gu Niannian, do you think that others are like you and have no ability to make money to buy luxury goods? They all rely on men to give you things. If you like others to give you things, then what do you mean if I give Fu Jingyan to you ? You can start asking questions. Miss Gu Wanwan, are you clarifying for Gu Niannian? I am indeed here to clarify. According to Gu The couple revealed that you were jealous of their preference for Gu Niannian, so you colluded with your lover to damage their reputation . How do you explain that you have done other things to frame Gu Niannian? Can you tell me in detail? Fu Jingyan is about to get engaged to you. Does he know that you have a lover? Everyone misunderstood me. I'm here to clarify for myself. Stop taking pictures. Everyone, please stop taking pictures . 977 Miss Gu Niannian, when did you and Fu Jingyan start having an affair with your future brother-in-law ? Is it tacitly approved by the Gu family? You were just photographed checking into a room with your boyfriend and another scandal broke out. What do you think? Your boyfriend is also a man with a family. Are you a professional ? No , that's not the case. Brother Jing Yan, please don't cry. Gu Wanwan, why don't you hurry up and tell everyone clearly? What should I say? It's fine for you guys and scumbags to be locked together . Don't break up and harm others . Hello, you are a loser star relying on Fu. The old man likes to pester Jing Yan and now you dare to scold him. I think you have no plans today. To clarify, you are here to deceive us. You are right. In front of all reporters today, I should not have only ruined your face. I should have crippled you. I announced that I would terminate my engagement with Fu Jingyan and sever ties with the Gu family. From now on, I will only be caring. Wanwan, you white-eyed wolf has made my family, Niannian, lose face and still want to Go away, you secretly fool around with wild men, who are you? Gu Wanwan, how dare you betray me , let go of Wanwan , Xiao Nuan, tell me who he is, otherwise no one will be able to leave today. Even Fu Jingyan, my woman, you dare to touch Xiao Nuan. If Uncle Jingyan dares to touch her again, more than just her hand will be broken. My husband is so handsome . Why are you leaving ? It's impossible for the president of Chuanshi Group to fall in love with a shabby shoe like you. Who do you think she is? I 'm bullying my wife because she's going against me. I'll take back the injustice she suffered in the Gu family twice as much , Mr. Fu . We are blind to your lord, there are a lot of Spare us once. This is your sincerity in apologizing. We were sorry before Wanwan. Please beg Mr. Fu. Forget it. After all, they have raised me, Mr. Fu. Mrs. Fu, please say something. Assistant He, let's go to the Civil Affairs Bureau. Okay. Do I agree? You asked me to help you save me? You 've already done it . Do n't push yourself too far. Who asked you to come to the rescue? I want you to know that I have broken off the engagement. Fu Sihan , I really want to marry you . Look at my household registration book. I have it all ready. Gu Wanwan , don't regret it . You promised me. Assistant He , please drive quickly. Husband , let's go back. No wonder Wan Wan Hui broke off the engagement with you for doing such a thing. No wonder Wan Wan Hui broke off the engagement with you. Grandpa Fu Sihan slept with my woman. Why don't you scold him? Do you think Si Han will be a bastard like you? Let me listen again. If you mess around, get out of Fu's house You damn old man , wait until I get the Fu Group to see how dare you look down on me. Come back, auntie, hello , I am Fu Sihan's wife . Please take care of me , Madam. Liu, please clean up a guest room for her . Okay , I don't want to stay in the guest room . I want to live with you. Why are we getting married? You don't know. You want revenge. Chuan Jingyan's marriage certificate is enough. There's no need to make any more concessions to me. I'm not aggrieved . Madam, don't be angry . You're the husband . The woman who comes home, he must have you in his heart, but he always ignores me, Mr., he is hard-spoken and soft-hearted. If you care about him, he will definitely not refuse. Where is the kitchen of Liu Ma ? I will take you there. Hey , CEO , Gu Jia and Fu Jingyan are both here. Fortunately, Madam , you were prepared to let our public relations team keep an eye on her 24 hours a day. Only then did we immediately suppress the bad news about Madam. Who let you in? I 'm sorry, right? I 'm disturbing your work, but I just knocked on the door several times and you didn't answer, so I had to bring it in for you. Can you wait and see? You have stomach problems and you have to eat on time. I 'm cooking for you for the first time . Let's try it to save face. Then I'll leave. Don't forget to eat. Sir, I haven't eaten so much for a long time. It seems that Madam has a talent for cooking and he likes to eat. I'll cook more for him tomorrow, okay? Fu Fu Jing Yan, what happened to Fu Sihan ? I will send someone to send you away tomorrow. Are you afraid that Fu Sihan will send you away ? You went out to hide from him early in the morning. I poured her ashes into the toilet and left her restless. I will repay her well. I have something to say. I want to ask Gu Niannian, Xiao Nuan, can you accompany me to the Gu family ? Baiyanlang still has the nerve to come back. Sister, your necklace is a new model designed by Master Wanxing. The price is more than 1,000 square meters. Where did you get the money to buy it for more than 10 million yuan ? gossip Stop talking, I'll get my things. You've been eating since you were a kid. Which of the things our family gives you is yours? Oh, mom, don't embarrass your sister . I'll go get it for her right now. Sister, your clothes will rot if you keep them for too long. Okay, but this seam can still be worn, right? My jewelry is rusty and I threw it away. If you want to find it, you can go outside and dig through the trash can. Maybe you can find something more valuable . that is Wanwan's earrings? Don't talk nonsense. How could I take her things? I 've said it over and over again. Wasn't the money she paid for the jewelry also given by my Gu family. Maybe this necklace was bought with our family's money. You take off the necklace for me. It's Wanwan. Why should I give it to you as a birthday gift? Do you dare to hit my mother? How dare you hit my mother ? Not only your mother , I even dare to hit you. I can give you the necklace. I don't want those old jewelry. I only want my mother. Gu Niannian, where did you hide her? How do I know where the ashes of that short-lived ghost are? When we traveled abroad, I saw a man in your room. He was not Fu Jingyan. What do you mean, where are the ashes? Grandma, you want to get it yourself? Okay, Wanwan , I'll go drive. You wait for me here. Gu Wanwan, why are you here? Could it be that you knew I was coming and waited for me here specially? Yes, I'm waiting for you to call me aunt, my nephew. Don't think that you can be arrogant if you follow Fu Sihan. You are the shabby shoe I played with. He will not be serious with you and will dump you sooner or later. It's better if you look back now and I can still consider accepting you. Don't worry , you can even carry Fu Sihan's shoes. If you don't deserve it, I won't look for you to show shame if I'm not blind, right? Husband, get out of here, I told you to send someone to see you off, you can't even wait for this little time , you want to see him so much, I'm not here to see him, I'm here to see Gu Niannian . You are already mine. Last night I did this to you again and again. I am a very responsible person and will not find anyone else. Gu Wanwan, what tricks do you want to play again? Fu Sihan, I'm hungry, let's go home, okay? You still have to stand. How long has it been since I've been home? Mom, that little white-eyed wolf stole more than 10 million from home to buy a necklace . We can't just let it go. My sister must have stolen a lot over the years. Kneel down and let me know that this is home. Do you want me to give you the first seven things? Come to Zhuangxiang. Who are you cursing? Grandma , the new jewelry set my sister is wearing costs 20 million. Sister, you said this necklace is missing. 20 million for the earrings, 15 million for the bracelet. The most valuable is 60 million. If you want it, then take it from me. What are you doing in exchange for your mother's ashes? Sister, you are so naive. You just believe whatever I tell you about the ashes. Grandma wouldn't have kept it and it would have been flushed down the sewer. You are as stupid as your damn mother. I lied to you back then. She said you are sick She braved the heavy rain to come and see you, so she got a high fever and burned herself to death. She really deserved it . How could you do this to her? If she hadn't held the wrong child, how would my baby girl have suffered? That was her retribution. Quickly take off her clothes and take a look. Does she have anything valuable on her? Let me go. Who are you? You are the madam. I'm sorry. The president told us to protect you before departure. We were too late. You raised me . I didn't want to kill them all. It was you who forced me to do it . I will definitely avenge my mother. You will wait and see. A group of heartless beasts will tell you how you want to take revenge. I will help you. The old lady is about to celebrate her birthday and I plan to give her a big gift . I know you feel uncomfortable now. If you want to cry, cry goodbye. Thank you for your patience. Fu Jingyan is a scumbag . I will kill you. Gu Wanwan, why are you so crazy ? Madam , the CEO pushed for a contract of more than one billion and came here to pick you up . You, my husband , are you my husband? No, he is you. drank Gu Wanwan, don't pretend to be stupid. Do you still want to go home? Sihan, do you think one day you will leave me too? How can I bear to leave you? It seems that Fu Sihan took me home last night. I won't be pregnant. Well, what are you thinking about last night? Mother Liu helped you take off your clothes last night . Then nothing happened to us . Gu Wanwan , do you want something to happen? I won't take advantage of others. You want us now? That's fine . Now, the president, the president, says the president. People have already been brought, let 's go, where is this? They slapped the lady today and had to take off her clothes. Do n't come over. I'm wrong. Don't hit me. I'm wrong . What's your mistake ? I , we, we don't know. It's okay. I'll think about it slowly. You guys have a night. Grandma, Miss Gu, the custom-made cufflinks you entrusted to us have been prepared. Wanwan , I heard that Gu Sanjian was beaten. Gu Sanjian , your grandma, your adoptive mother and Gu Niannian don't know who they offended . Their mouths were so beaten that they were beaten . stripped naked I'm really relieved that I lost it at the door. The president has already brought it. Could it be Fu Sihan, Gu Wanwan, it was you who hit Nian Nian, but your sister, you actually did something so wolfish, it doesn't matter how Jingyan, brother and sister treat me , but my mother and grandma treat her. She has always been nice. She is so unfilial to do this. You are such a quick talker. How dare you threaten a scumbag ? Don't even think about touching Mr. Wanwan . If you are rude to my customers again, I will call the police. What kind of customer is she ? Broken shoes for her Can you afford the high-end jewelry here with the little money you earn from selling yourself ? Can you afford the high-end jewelry here? Your brother-in-law is very generous with his pocket money. It's not like you said he's Mr. Fu of the Fu Group. It's 100 million yuan. In fact, even if you don't even spend a few cents on the shares, you will be hurt . Brother Jing Yan, you can't be compared to Fu Sihan. Who is he? Come in your store for me. I bought it. Go and get it. It's just right. I want to try my sister. Brother Jing Yan is the VIP of this store. The account manager will receive him first. What can you try? Why is Miss Gu the only Super V in our store ? Customers have the highest priority. Oh, this necklace is so beautiful. It deserves to be a classic design designed by Master Wanxing. It's a pity that there are people who can only look at it and can't buy any bullshit super. V Ah, I 'm sorry to sell it to you at double the price . Only Miss Gu Wanwan is sure that she doesn't want this necklace so it can be your turn . My manager will sell it directly to them at double the price . If you recognize each other , I'll give you the necklace. Brother Jing Yan, this necklace It must be very expensive. You are so kind to me. I don't even pay attention to such a small amount of money. Mr. Fu, the total of 74 million is directly swiped by credit card. Why is it so expensive? I can't afford it. What kind of big garlic manager necklace is it? We want it from me. It looks like she is pretending to be a sister. What did you use to buy this necklace worth more than 70 million yuan ? Manager , please don't let her deceive you. Little Gu Wanwan Sister doesn't need to pay the bill. All her purchases in our store are free . Why are you two yelling here when you can't afford it? It 's really polluting the environment in the store. Security guard, take them out. You don't have to do it. It's embarrassing for me. I will not let go of your trouble. Master Wanxing. You are the world's top jewelry designer who once helped you . Our store has come back from the dead to do things for you. That's what we should do. I don't know if Fu Sihan will like it . Happy wedding, Fu Sihan. Gu Niannian, are you helping me vent my anger? No, I didn't even say what happened to them. Go to bed. Do you want to sleep together ? Didn't you say you wouldn't take advantage of someone's danger? You refused me and kissed me. You secretly thought I didn't know. If you like me, then I'll be fair and aboveboard. I don't want you to regret it. It's you Fu Sihan. I won't regret it. This pair of cufflinks is low-key and luxurious. You can tell at a glance that it fits the CEO's temperament. The person who chose it put a lot of thought into it. It was given by his wife. I 'll make lunch for you and take it to the company. Don't give it to me and then refuse me. In fact, you wish I could give it to you and then refuse me. In fact, I wish I wasn't a ghost before I believed you. The CEO's wife was kidnapped and tested when she grew up. It's a pity that her little face is ruined. Don't move. Don't hurt. It's Fu Jingyan who asked you to come. No matter how much money he gives you, I will pay ten times for your Gao Yigui's hand. Can you afford it? I'm Fu Sihan's wife. If you offered me a higher price, I could let you go. Unfortunately, Fu Sihan is ruthless. I can't afford to offend you. You can only shut up forever so he won't know that I tied you up. You and Gu Niannian slept with me . If I die, my friend will tell Fu Jingyan about it and he will send you to be buried with me. Then I won't even Your friend is trying to make you feel happy before being played to death . Just pretend to be a fierce woman. If you have some sense, you will be obedient and you will suffer less. Don't wait too late. Don't be afraid. I'm fine. President, how did that person use his hands ? He's not worthy of your dirty hands. I'm here to borrow a knife to kill people. Please help me. I heard that Madam's wound hurts. I want a hug. I'm sorry. I didn't protect you well. This won't happen again in the future. What's going on? Fu Sihan, please promise me not to put yourself in danger for me. Well, you didn't agree . I sent you the photo every night. I didn't expect it. Gu Niannian is so clingy to Fu Jingyan that she will cuckold him. Fu Jingyan has more than one cuckold, right? Gu Wanwan, you are fine. Are you surprised? I guess you are lucky . I won't let you run away again next time. Aren't you afraid that I will call the police? You don't have any evidence . What's the use of calling the police? You have a lot of evidence. You have a lot of evidence. If you dare to betray me , I will make you pay the price sooner or later . My aunt is asking me to meet, but my uncle doesn't know. It seems that your relationship is not very good. My uncle likes to wear worn-out shoes. I'll give you two more pairs. Don't hit him. I'll come here in person. Fu Jingyan, your toes are exposed and you're talking about others. If you don't believe it because you are wearing worn-out shoes, look at Gu Niannian carrying you and Brother Hao to the hotel. It's impossible that Niannian is not this kind of person . Is she? If you go and ask, won't you know what kind of idea you are waiting for you to come up with ? I won't see him next time. If I obey , will this trick work? Brother Jing Yan, Gu Niannian, you lied to me. If it weren't for Gu Wanwan, I wouldn't have done it. I know you went abroad to sleep with Brother Hao. Brother Jing Yan, I love you so much. How could I lie to you ? Brother Hao pestered me . I was afraid that you would misunderstand me, so I didn't dare to tell you. I went abroad to hide from him. He came to me to say that he gave up on me. Nothing happened between us. You believe me, but she has photos of you and Brother Hao together. They are all fake . My sister hates me and has framed me more than once. Do you have to believe her words ? Believe me? I miss you so much . I believe you . Stop crying. I almost lost Brother Jing Yan. I will not spare you, Brother Jing Yan . You and Fu Sihan are too much of a bully. We have to tell Mr. Fu that he values his reputation and will not let that couple of bitches go. Grandpa Fu, you still dare to call me grandpa. You and Jing Yan broke off the engagement and you found his uncle in the blink of an eye. Aren't you afraid? Others are talking about it, but have you considered the face of our Fu family? Sihan is my most proud son. It is inappropriate for you to take money and leave him. Grandpa Fu, I will not leave. I have all the means to force you to leave. He broke off the engagement. No matter what you think , I have a clear conscience and went to Fu Sihan because I like him . No matter how you force me, I will not leave. Fu, because you have suffered. It 's a lot of influence . You can't be too selfish. My Fu family's affairs have nothing to do with her. I'm telling you that you can only choose one between Fu family and her . I chose her. Then why didn't you take her home earlier to be better? My dear, who are you trying to be anxious about? The old man is anxious to see his daughter-in-law. He has a good idea. I have nothing to do to trick you. Come here, don't talk nonsense. My daughter- in- law , this 100 million is a meeting gift . Don't blame me. The old man is tacky. I have nothing but money. I have a room full of antiques. I heard that your house will be home tomorrow. There's a birthday banquet. You can pick out a few items as gifts. The Gu family is not mine. It's too expensive. Why don't you go ? Are you sure it's Mr. Fu? Is it my biological child? Only if he is my biological child, he will give me medicine to make you pregnant as soon as possible. I guess he is eavesdropping outside now. Master, they have a good relationship. You will definitely be able to have a grandson. There is no need to worry. There is no child. One day, the daughter-in-law dislikes Si Han . I just ran away . Can I not be in a hurry? Madam, she has no relatives and was kicked out by the Gu family. Where can she run ? Do you think the Gu family will bully my daughter-in -law at the birthday banquet ? No, I can't . I have to prepare well and prepare to support my daughter-in-law. Gu Wanwan, do you have to deal with it? What are you doing? I'm helping you . See if it's better now, but it's not just like this . If it's particularly troublesome, I won't help. It's too late to pick. Wear the same outfit to a birthday banquet. I don't deserve to celebrate my family's birthday. I only deliver the goods . You can play with me as you like. I'll pay for it. You don't have to. I'm still rich. Thank you, my husband. Auntie, you represent the Fu family. I'm very happy to attend grandma's birthday party. Why are you spending so much money? We are a family. It's a small amount of money. Are you polite? Why is the Fu family a top wealthy family? It's a great blessing for Nian Nian to marry into it . How come I heard that Nian Nian relies on pawns? The mistress robbed her sister's wedding, so the property must be returned to its original owner. Gu Wanwan is a fake daughter and she does n't deserve to be in the Fu family . Isn't she married to Fu Sihan ? Gu Wanwan just broke off the engagement and got mixed up with uncle Jing Yan, which is not a good thing at all. Fu Sihan just can't play with her. Maybe you can marry her. Don't spread rumors to smear our family. Is that Gu Wanwan? He is rich and noble. I almost can't recognize him. When she came out, her jewelry seemed to cost tens of millions. It must not have been bought for her by the Gu family. It should have been given by Mr. Fu, right ? Sister, why are you coming to the birthday banquet and your brother-in-law doesn't accompany you? She is just a plaything. Fu Sihan doesn't know how to spend it. The person who spent time with her borrowed a car and a bodyguard. She also borrowed her clothes and jewelry. It's a pity that pheasants are pheasants . Can a chicken turn into a phoenix? You still have an empty box to show off your wealth. I wonder if the gift boxes will be opened at the scene. We are waiting to see you make a fool of yourself . Gu Wanwan sees that you have liked me. As long as you beg me, I can do it later. Consider helping you. Bad breath can also be inherited. You are worthy of being Fu Jingyan 's mother. You treat people as sons by their nostrils . Every day I think you still have lingering feelings for him. I don't know who gave you such a thick face. If you don't want it , then don't blame me. Have you made arrangements? I'll take care of things. Don't worry, grandma. Today is your birthday, Auntie and Jing Yan. But I have prepared a century-old ginseng for you. Look at this thing, it costs millions. I didn't say anything about saving some money and being considerate. Nian Nian told me that the old man is not in good health, but Nian Nian is considerate. Of course she is considerate. How can we treat her so well like that white-eyed wolf ? She framed Nian Nian and stole money. If I had known, I should have strangled her to death. You still If you have the nerve to come, I am so filial to my grandma to celebrate her birthday. Of course I will come. Wanwan has also prepared a big party. What gift? I think you are here to eat and drink for free. You also bring empty boxes to hold leftovers. These are all treasures. Mom, how can I have the money to buy the real thing ? Sister, grandma is celebrating her birthday today. How can you bring Yingpin? Are you fooling people? Aren't you going to disgrace the Gu family by doing this? That's not a product of the Ru Kiln Azure Glazed Wash Wanshou Continuous Extension Gourd. The reed vase, yellow jade, auspicious beasts, and the hundred and eight exotic nanmu are all treasures passed down from generation to generation. Master He, you are a famous antique appraisal expert. You can't tell lies. I will guarantee these antiques with the reputation of my life. Where can I get the money to buy antiques, sister? As expected, you stole a lot of money from home. You are so sorry to your parents and grandma. Master He, we won't argue with you about keeping the antiques and stealing money. How much are these worth? It's at least 300 million. What's the valuation of the Gu Group? The cap is 80 million. Then I have to steal a few Gu Groups in exchange for these antiques. Ah Qun, shameless Wanwan, even a necklace is more expensive than Gu's. How dare you accuse her of stealing money? Wanwan feels noble when I see you today. It turns out that you are really rich. Mrs. Fu has a distinguished status and can be useful to me in the future. Even if you greet Gu Wanwan , she is just a shabby shoe who sleeps with a man. What the heck, Mrs. Fu, you are nothing. What a piece of shit you are In order to sleep with Fu Sihan for a few nights, you can fly up a branch and become a phoenix. I tell you that experts will not let you do this. How dare you teach me a lesson? My wife only allowed you to stay in Fu for the sake of her deceased eldest brother . If you mess with my wife, I'll tell you to get out of Jincheng You, you can't drive me away. We are all thinking about the Fu family, so we don't let this shabby shoe in. It 's enough to talk filthy words . It's embarrassing. Your grandpa clearly belongs to them and they still want to quibble. Brother Jing Yan, what you just said. Jing Yan , you I'm so disappointed, brother-in-law You are worthy of calling me the Gu family. If you don't welcome me , I wo n't give you any gifts . My precious grandma, don't feel bad. The biggest gift is yet to come. I wish grandma a long life. Your grandma, your mother, She was so angry that she had a stroke. Gu Haibo sent her to the countryside overnight . Waiting to die, this is really his biological son The antiques are all fine. If Master He helps you with the fraud, those people will definitely not think that the quality is compromised. I just helped Master He's daughter design wedding jewelry, but I didn't expect that he would really be willing to help me. Do you want to open a design studio? You need to find one first. Let's not talk about the venue for now. Fu Sihan, what do you mean by family? I used to really regard the Gu family as my family. They don't deserve you . Remember, this is your home. I remember that grandpa Fu Sihan bullied us a lot behind your back. Mother and son , you can no longer favor him and drive my mother away, Jing Yan Before the engagement was broken off, Fu Sihan and that unclear man , I can't swallow this nonsense . Grandpa Fu, if you don't believe it, you can ask yourself if they have been sleeping together behind Brother Jing Yan's back for a long time . It has nothing to do with her, you finally admitted I recognize Fu Sihan, what qualifications does a person like you have to be the heir of the Fu family? Why do you think you are qualified ? Brother-in-law, you and brother Jing Yan are uncles and nephews. If you guys start such a quarrel over your sister and spread the word, the Fu family will be very embarrassed . I blame Gu Wanwan for arriving. She has been flirting with people all over the place to smear the Fu family. The old man shouldn't have let her in and shut up. I don't know why Wan Wan broke off the engagement. Now that you are still slandering her , it seems you should reflect on it. No, old man , don't rush. You should be the one to apologize when I go out It's Wanwan , I know I'm wrong. It seems that the old man can't be cruel. I forgive your daughter-in-law for saying something . Let's forget about it for now. I don't think you have any bad intentions. I don't have a sister. I'm really curious about how you seduced her . | You can learn from Fu Sihan Fu Sihan will never fall in love with you in his whole life. I am the daughter of the Gu family. Mr. Fu and Fu Sihan should love me. I will tell this to sister Fu Jingyan for you. If you let them know that you treat your sister like this, why not? Will I pamper you so much? Nian Nian, brother and brother -in-law, Jing Yan, don't blame me for accidentally falling down on my sister. You are a pest. The Gu family has raised you for ten years. How dare you push Nian Nian, the old man? You see , she has a poisonous heart and is not worthy of joining the Fu family. Auntie , please don't say that, though My sister hates me and blames me for taking away my parents' love . But she is my sister after all. How could I push it ? You can act it out again for everyone to see. Sister, my legs have fallen so badly that I can no longer stand up. Please don't embarrass me anymore. How about calling the doctor? Is her leg broken? If not, break it for her. I don't think it's that serious . Brother Jing Yan, I'm so dizzy. I'll take you back to rest. Wait , either let the doctor come or tell me clearly whether I pushed you or not in front of the old man. How dare you threaten Nian Nian me? See, you just want to force me to death. I have already forgiven you. Why are you still targeting me ? I have done something wrong. You are worthy of being targeted by me. I just don't like you. Why are you, a village woman ? I'm the Fu family's husband, you bastard , I thought you were I sincerely apologized yesterday . I misjudged you. Tomorrow you will go abroad without me and Si Han's words. You are not allowed to come back. Grandpa, I don't want it. Grandpa, who dares to plead ? Get out of here. The old immortal doesn't think highly of me anymore. You can't just sit back and wait . I miss you to seduce Fu Sihan Let the old man know , don't worry, I won't blame you. When I get the Fu family, we will get married . Brother Jing Yan, I can do anything for you , brother- in-law . Look at me. I like you. Get lost . Say it again. Get lost . Am I that bad? I'm obviously the one who cares about the Gu family The daughter, Gu Wanwan, is just a country girl. Why are you so nice to her? If you scold her again, I will kill you. Fu Sihan , what are you doing? Jing Yan 's brother-in-law said he was not feeling well. I was kind enough to come over and have a look. I didn't expect him . I'm sorry for you. Fu Sihan, you are so deceptive What's more, Sihan, I want to hear your explanation. He doesn't need to explain, but you are running around in pajamas in the middle of the night. My nephew doesn't care. He still says that you guys are colluding . If you want to taint my husband , you should be beaten. It doesn't matter whether my husband calls you or not. What are you worried about when you come to his room dressed like this? I'm just too worried about my brother- in-law and I didn't have time to change clothes. I'm still alive. How can my man get your turn? I'm worried about you. Enough is enough. Fu Jingyan, take care of your woman. Don't blame me for doing this next time . If something dirty comes into the house, beat it up Sweeping old Chen , send the Gu family's daughter. Lao Chen, send the Gu family's daughter back. Don't let her stay and dirty my eyes. Gu Wanwan, are you too confident in me? You are my husband. Of course I trust you and you have such high vision . Who else can't be better than you and me? I don't even care. Wait, did she meet you? Fu Sihan, you are not clean . You have to check whether you are clean or not. You have to check to find out. In the last life, Fu Sihan went abroad and the Fu family fell into the hands of Fu Jingyan. In this life, no one can bully except me. That villain of yours is still here to harm me. I can't stand the tone of our family. Nian Nian was injured and was kicked out by the Fu family. I'm warning you. She is Mrs. Fu now. Don't mess with her. Why can she be so obsessed with Fu Sihan? I won't accept this revenge. I must avenge it every night. I'm here to apologize, Fu Sihan? What are you so proud of? You are just a broken shoe that Brother Jing Yan doesn't want. Sooner or later, Sihan will dump you. Sihan, Liu's mother, disinfected the house. Continue talking. If you don't say anything, just go back. We have been together day and night for many years. What can I do? It might hurt you * What happened that day was not intentional. If you can forgive me, come to the banquet. No matter how late it is, I will wait for you. Husband, Gu Wanwan, please speak properly . It turns out that you are allergic to the sound of clips. Husband, I think you just need to clean up . I miss you. Is that cheap sister not coming? Stop talking nonsense. The bastard from the country is not worthy of being our sister. She is a fake daughter who got a high position by sleeping with her. She has the nerve to let you go. It just so happens that the jewelry she brings with her is different every time she goes out. She got it by sleeping with her Don't think it's dirty. I look disgusting . I miss you, where did you choose? I miss the place you chose. Why do you smell a stink as soon as you come in ? Wanwan, they just don't like you being too showy. There's no malice. Look at what she brought. It's another new style designed by Master Wanxing. Gu Wanwan, you have the nerve to bring it out with all the outfits you can wear to sleep with me . I originally planned to give it to Niannian, but it's a pity that you don't like it so I won't give it to them. They just said casually that I don't want it. I hate it . I'm afraid this thing will ruin you. I just Tell me, I'll apologize to you if I make you angry . Brother Hao , don't forget to take a photo so that she won't dare to disobey you and be played by you for the rest of her life . I 'm risking being killed by Fu Sihan this time to help you, but you can't . You have to compensate me well. What do you want? You can play whatever you want. I wonder if Fu Sihan will let you enjoy it . It's a pity that you haven't woken up. Otherwise, I really want to hear that little voice. But you woke up. Do you think I am as stupid as you to believe Gu Niannian? What did you mean last time? Fu Sihan didn't say he wouldn't let you go. Catch you and bring you back. You were hiding around and it was too hard to find. Fortunately, Gu Niannian helped fish you out. She lied to me and I won't let her go . You'd better think about your situation first, Madam. The CEO ordered him to be taken away, Mrs. Fu . I know I was wrong, forgive me for this I will be your dog from now on. Mrs. Fu doesn't want me. He has helped Fu Jingyan do a lot of dirty work. He is still useful. At least he will bite Mrs. Gu Niannian in the future. Thank you. My husband will go home and cook for you as a thank you. Li will cook for you when he comes home as a thank you gift Wow, it's a good place to open a studio here. Moreover, Gu's is right across the street, which is convenient. I already have the planned space and employees, so I'm waiting for you to open. But you haven't disclosed your identity. The studio has no traffic. How can we attract customers? You don't need to attract us to poach Gu's. The client , Brother Hao, has been missing for a month. It doesn't matter whether he is dead or not. How can I fuck her without a photo of that person? My father-in-law gave me one million. I want to buy a bag . You know how many big customers the other side has stolen from us ? Isn't it just a small, broken studio? Is there anything to worry about ? I think you just don't want to give me money . Broken Studio has its own channels and can produce in large quantities for our customers. The designs are low-priced and very trendy. We can't compete with them at all. Dad, they don't deserve to fight with us at all . We just need to think of some means to prevent them from driving. Anyway, they don't have much reputation and their peers won't say anything. If we smash it up, I don't believe they can turn it over. Come on, our chief designer has won the grand prize in the National Jewelry Design Competition . You will never be disappointed if you cooperate with us . No wonder these pieces of jewelry are simple and elegant. It turns out that they are produced by masters and are much better than Gu's designs. Their designs have not changed for several years. The styles of jewelry have long been outdated. The prices are rising every year. You will have new designs in the future. The first one to inform me is that I will not go to the other side and directly sign a contract with you. Dare you rob our Gu family? Do you have customers who don't have eyes? You want to compete with our Gu family ? You are worthy of me. Close the store today or I will never be done with you . What are you going to do? I want to call the police . What are you calling the police? Go and call your boss. Come to me and tell me. This shabby studio dares to call our Gu family. It turns out it was you who is still haunting. You should have followed us in the first place. Your miserable mother insisted on coming. You dared to mention my mother. You actually dared to smash her nest box for me. Ten million yuan for ornaments and thirty million yuan for pretense. Who are you trying to scare ? I have to smash it today. I want to see how you can be wise enough to close the shop and leave, otherwise I will peel off your skin and let's go . Do I let you go? Calculate the compensation. After paying compensation of more than 200 million yuan before leaving, you still want to compensate your damn mother. If you dare to hit me, you should beat me and videotape me. I will post the video of the beating on the Internet so that you will become a street rat and never be able to open a store. We have a white-eyed wolf in our family . She comes to your door to steal business . I come to ask for an explanation and she even beats her up. I have raised you for twenty years. You are ungrateful. Has your conscience been eaten by a dog? I have surveillance here . Why don't you upload the video to the Internet ? Think carefully about whether the compensation of about 200 million will be private or go through judicial procedures. The Gu family will go bankrupt soon. She can't afford to compensate you. How dare you read it? Nian also wants to marry into the Fu family. Jing Yan will not watch us being harmed by you. You think it is said that Jing Yan has a say in the Fu family. You can try it. See if he can stop me and block the Gu family. It seems you can only think about which street to beg for food. Tell them to get out of my way. Fu Sihan, did you come here specially to help me vent my anger? If so, do you want to thank me? Thank you. Husband, madam, are you not sincere enough? Is it enough now? Is it enough now? If I say it's not enough, then what kind of sincerity do you want ? Do you really not know? Fu Sihan has cut off Gu's qualifications. Golden Chain Bank has come here to demand the loan. They all blame you for messing with Gu Wanwan. It's really not enough success but failure. I didn't expect it. What should I do now ? Are we really going to go bankrupt? If the Gu family goes bankrupt, I won't be the daughter of a wealthy family. It's all Gu Wanwan's dad 's fault. Please calm down , Mom and Dad. Don't worry. I will definitely win first place in the national design competition and impress everyone with Gu. Please cooperate with us. You haven't done any design for a long time. Are you sure you can win? Don't worry, I have a way. Miss Gu was in Gu Wanwan's office last time and I got their new product design. Unexpectedly, the organizer invited Master Wanxing to be the judge. This competition is going to be exciting. Master Wanxing is an internationally renowned chief jewelry designer. Each of her works supports the sales of the entire company. Our family It would be great if we could invite Master Wanxing . Why is she here to participate in the competition? Sister, are you also here to participate in the competition? But you don't know how to design jewelry. Did you steal other people's designs to get around? Come in, mom, don't say that. Although my sister has never studied design , she has a designer in her studio . Sure enough, you are a thief . How can you be sure that I don't know how to design? Apart from sleeping with men, what else would you do besides sleeping with men ? Come and see, there is a shameless person here who uses stolen works to participate in the competition . Wanwan didn't say she was here to compete. Your family is in a hurry. Is there something ulterior motive in your mind when you accuse her ? You still want to lose money? If she's not here to compete, why should she be here ? Wanwan is a judge. Stop telling jokes and don't pee and take photos. You don't have the guts to pretend to be the judge's sister. Even if you're afraid of being kicked out , there's no need to make such a fuss. It's a lie. If this is exposed, it will be embarrassing and I won't pay it back. Is it you? You and I want to see who can be embarrassed and brag without drafting and actually dare to say that he is a judge. Why not say that he is a Wanxing? Master Wanxing, thank you very much for agreeing to be our judge later. We would like to invite you. Can you read your opening speech ? No problem . The contestants are all excellent, especially the daughter of the Gu family, who is unanimously favored by the judges. I heard that her design is very much like Master Wanxing . Maybe she will be another international chief designer in the future. I still have a lot to learn from everyone. It's so good, Niannian Later, you have to perform well and leave a good impression on Master Wanxing. If you can become her student, our family will be prosperous. I know, Mom, how are you ? This competition is very honored to invite the international chief design master, Master Wanxing. Here are our judges: Wanxing went on stage shamelessly, fearing that others would not know that you had sneaked in, yet you dared to walk on stage . Yes, even the entries had to be drawn by others, so you are not qualified to be on stage . But don't waste everyone's time. Of course I I'm qualified to come up because I just can't think of Wanxing Master Wanxing is so young and still a great beauty. She was not yet an adult when she became famous . She is a genius. She is not Wanxing . How can a village girl be the chief designer? Don't let her deceive you . You bitch, you are full of shit. Gu Niannian. I don't know how to take care of security. Let me go. *Mom, sister, why don't you speak to your mother? She's usually so kind to you. How can you be so cruel? Gu Niannian, if you have time to talk, why don't you first explain why you took my design draft to participate in the competition ? No wonder her style is very similar to Master Wanxing. Doesn't it seem like she is a thief ? No, these are all drawn by myself, and I still want to quibble? Wanwan is the chief designer, how can she have time to slander you ? She has nothing to do after she is full. I thought the daughter of the Gu family was also a genius, but I didn't expect that she was a plagiarising dog. As expected, the upper beam is not straight and the lower beam is crooked. Ah, it's not like that, no, Gu Nian I'm waiting to receive my lawyer's letter. Thank you for helping me bring the USB flash drive to Gu Niannian. Miss Gu is my responsibility. Thank you for helping me take care of my grandma. Don't worry , I won't tell anyone about the USB flash drive. The Gu family is really greedy to get it. I deserve to be sued and bankrupt if I come to participate in the competition with the design drawings. Ah, they all left on their own. Wanwan , your husband just came. Did you notice that he was watching you the whole time ? No wonder I thought someone was staring at me. It turned out to be him, right? You are all married and you still blush when you hear this . Am I a reporter ? Isn't it very busy? I'm not busy today. I'm busy . I still have something to do. Take a step in advance and wish you two a happy world. Why did you drive her away? Mi, she already said it . Mi wants us to have a happy world . Then were you really there just now? Mi, you still kept peeking at me . Mi, look at you compared to before. Mi has changed a lot. Gu Wanwan, you hid a lot of things from me . I used to be How did you like Fu Jingyan before? That has changed a lot. I like you now, Fu Sihan. I will never lie to you , let alone leave you. Do you believe it? I believe everything you say. Gu Wanwan , please clarify immediately and say that you will never do it again. Suing Niannian , she did not plagiarize , you voluntarily copied the design It's already dawn for her . You haven't woken up from your dream. Aren't they just a few broken pictures? You insist on getting her in. Why are you so old? She is your sister. Do you know how much one of my design drawings is worth? As long as I am I want Gu Niannian to never get out of prison in this life. I don't want to help Gu Niannian. You want money, right? OK , I 'll give you as much as you want . As long as you let Niannian go, I'm afraid you can't afford it . I don't want money. I want you to leave Fu's. How long has it been since she went in? It seems like ten minutes. Gu Wanwan, I left Fu's. What good is it to you? Fu Sihan asked you to do this, right ? Tell you, stop dreaming. Sooner or later, Mrs. Fu will be mine . When the time comes, I will make him look good . I thought you were totally devoted to Gu Niannian and were willing to give up Mrs. Fu for her. I want to marry her , but she is still not as important as Mrs. Fu , Gu Wanwan, you. For Fu Sihan's sake, why don't you sleep with me? Once you feel comfortable serving me, I will consider resigning. Brother Jing Yan, what were you just saying? You wanted me and I didn't force you to speak. If you want to blame me, blame yourself . If you don't come out, I will go in and arrest you. Come out. Come out. Don't be jealous, which eye of yours is watching? You're so confident that I'm so jealous . It's not all because of you. He's not clear-headed . Stay away from him. Just listen to your husband. Wanwan , you already have Fu Sihan. Why do you still secretly go behind his back ? I have an appointment with my brother Jing Yan. Are you looking for me? I'm a lawyer , so why are you here to throw dirty water? What can I do for you to withdraw the lawsuit? This water is too cold. Wanwan , I poured you a cup of warm water. It seems that you are not sincerely apologizing. Wanwan, I cleaned up, and you are very good . If you can go back, will you withdraw the lawsuit ? Yes, you lied to me. When did I say that I would withdraw the lawsuit? Sweeping the floor and pouring water cannot offset the bad things you have done . Just wait to go to jail. You deliberately want to miss you. We have never treated you badly since you were a child. Why? To be ungrateful, first humiliate Lan Zhi is bullying Niannian again now. Do you have a conscience? Do n't worry, I will return whatever you did to me . Gu Niannian will probably never come out of prison in this life. Does your sister still want to know where your mother's ashes are? Grandma was at that time. Cooperate with my lie and the ashes are always here with me. Do you think I will believe it? If you don't believe it , then we will just dump the ashes and make you regret it for the rest of your life. Thinking about that village girl, you feel pitiful even if you don't live a good day even if you die, you will be soaked in the septic tank. My biological daughter doesn't care about me either If you want to see the ashes, you withdraw the lawsuit first , otherwise I will throw it away. Xiaonuan , why should I withdraw the lawsuit? Wanwan, are you crazy ? Don't ask . Just withdraw the lawsuit. Okay, it's more like this. I'm afraid it's unlucky to keep this unlucky thing at home. You can take it quickly. It won't be so easy to leave them There may be a problem with giving me ashes. That person is so good at deceiving dogs. He can turn his bones into treasures . From now on, she will have to kowtow to dogs and call her mom. It was not wasted. I went out of my way to pick a female dog for her. A piece of land here is not cheap for us. Wanwan is really a filial piety Brother -in-law, my sister must be feeling very sad. Fortunately, you are with her. Who asked you to come here? You are not welcome here. Hurry up and get out . Xiaonuan , I won't say this to them on a day like this . Mom, I'm sorry for your mother's hard work in giving birth to you. I came down for you again And it's not enough for you to just talk to me. How many more do you have to eat? Yes, the spirit in heaven will be very happy to see you being so filial, right? That's right. Gu Niannian, my mother has raised you for twenty years, and you should kneel down. Kneel down, I am just an adopted daughter , you are the one My dear, just kneel down. If you don't want to kneel down, shut your mouth about the plagiarism. The lawsuit has been withdrawn. Do you still want to slander us? Nian Nian. I think you don't want this mouth. Let me go. You guys kowtow, or do you want me to help you? Don't choose a brother-in-law Oh, let go. You dare to scold her ? It's not that there is really a dog in there. It's not your mother. I really don't believe you are right . Don't worry. It 's my mother's relics buried inside . I won't give you a penalty if you are wrong. The village girl kowtows, but my brother-in-law and sister know it clearly Can't you see that the truth is that you are deliberately bullying us ? My wife is right in everything. Kowtow to them. Don't let me go . Miss Gu Niannian, you are being sued for theft. Please come to the court as soon as possible. Gu Niannian wishes you a good life in prison. Have a good meal , Gu Wanwan, I won't let you go, take them away , don't worry, I will take good care of Wanwan and never let her be bullied or wronged by anyone. How can you do such a big thing like Si Han's family being buried quietly? What should I do? I'm really stupid. I don't need to beat you today. It's my idea. Don't blame him . Does he usually make you angry? We have a good relationship and never get angry. Then why don't you guys want kids? Um , you don't want kids. It's not just you who want kids . I completely rely on Madam. Make the decision for you Help me, who told you to talk nonsense ? I'm right, I can't give birth, don't I have to listen to you? Si Han, you have to work harder , I'll work hard , I'll go to the kitchen to see you, it's weird to say that you just get a certificate, don't propose, don't hold a wedding My daughter- in-law doesn't want to pay attention to you . Go order a pair of diamond rings. The most expensive old man in the world has eaten very little today. Is it because my cooking is not very delicious? Is he not hungry? Doesn't he want a child? Why are you looking at your mobile phone ? Let me see, you won't have children. You have to do this to have more children. Do you know what you are doing now? You messed with me first. President, the most expensive diamond ring is Graff Butterfly. You can only bid at the auction. It has 7 records. Each of the owners is happily married. I think Madam will like it . Come to the auction well . Why don't you think of anything? I'll go see the organizer first. You're waiting for my good sister. What a coincidence. Gu Niannian, why are you here? Thanks to Jing. Brother Yan , I was not sent in by you. Why did I disappoint you? Sister , we are so kind. Nian Nian is even willing to call me sister like this. You are too humble. When it comes to being mean, no one can compare to me. You two are the best, Gu Wanwan, and how many benefits has Fu Sihan given you so that you are willing to sleep with him and walk around with traces of it ? I wish the whole world knew about you. We, a legal couple, can sleep as much as we want. What does it have to do with you? You are jealous of Fu Sihan because of your old relationship with me. My sister, are you deliberately trying to seduce Brother Jing Yan by saying this ? Are you worthy of your brother-in-law? You man? Hold on to me and won't let you go. Do you think he is worthy of you? Also, I am very discerning and don't like this kind of rags. If you like it, pick it up yourself and stick it to me. My husband will be angry, but you are right. I will be angry. Brother Jing Yan. You don't need to support Fu Sihan. Don't think you can secure your position as heir. You won't be arrogant for long. What did you do to me today? In the future, I will pay you back a hundred times a thousand times. I'm waiting for you to come. I haven't seen enough . My husband is so handsome . Husband, let's go in quickly. The finale this time is not an ordinary antique that is hundreds of years old. I heard that this is a pair of rings with a very good meaning. The couples who wear them are all It's a long life. The price is very high . I'm not worth hundreds of billions. Who dares to take the photo ? I don't know which big shot it will fall into. Brother Jing Yan, will you take the photo for me? Don't worry, it will only be worn on your hand. I knew that Brother Jing Yan loves me the most. Dear guests, today's auction has officially begun. First of all, our first auction today is a treasure box. The starting price is 10 million , 300 million , 300 million . Is there any higher price? 3 The first sale of 100 million. This is our next auction. The name is Jade Qilin. The starting price is 50 million , 200 million and 500 million. Is there a higher one? 500 million. The first sale of 500 million . Fu Sihan, why don't you come? Our last auction item today is the Graff butterfly diamond ring worn by the Queen. It is a perfect combination of pure yellow diamonds and pink diamonds. It is the only pair in the world with a starting price of 100 million. The bidding officially begins with 100 million. 150 million . Mr. Fu is very proud. 160 million. Is there any more 200 million? Is there any 4400 million? Mr. Fu offered 400 million. He paid 450 million for me. The highest transaction price of this item is 600 million . Will it break the record today? 800 million. It seems that Mr. Fu is determined. I heard that he and Mrs. Fu have not held a wedding yet. I don't know if this ring is worth 800 million. Is there any higher price? Is it 850 million ? Is there a higher one? 1.6 billion. Mr. Fu bid 1.6 billion. Is there any more? 1.6 billion. Congratulations to Mr. Fu. Wanwan , I owe you a ring . The ceremony is a memory that every woman should have, and you deserve the best . Marry me, okay? Mr. Fu and his wife are such a match made in heaven. Their relationship is so good. I don't know if the ring blessed them or if they chose the ring. Mr. Fu, please be sure to notify me of your wedding. Let's have a wedding banquet in advance. We wish you two a long and happy marriage in advance. Thank you for your support when the time comes. Brother Jing Yan, what should I do with the ring? I'm so embarrassed, how dare you mention the ring ? Brother Jing Yan, Wan Wan , your husband's sky-high price diamond ring proposal video has gone viral on the Internet. Look, the comments say your husband is a doting wife, a crazy wife, and a crazy wife. Where can I see Guan Yan? Do you still need to look at it? She is my wife now and I dote on her . Question, absolutely no problem. You didn't even tell me when you planned the wedding. Do you want me, an elder, to attend the ceremony empty-handed? Fortunately, I have already prepared it. These are the ownership and use rights certificates for the Fu family's real estate , yacht, airplane, and cruise ship, as well as the Fu Group. Please keep the 10% shares. Thank you, Mr. Fu. The old man made a will to hand over the Fu family to us. Now he only hopes that we will give birth to a child to play with him . Oh, what is the will ? If you are old and immortal , don't blame me for being unrighteous. Wanwan , you are trying on the wedding dress. Isn't your husband coming ? I didn't tell him that I wanted to give him a surprise. Mr. Fu customized the wedding dress for you with 1314. He said he would make you the most dazzling bride with a Winston diamond . You look really dazzling when you put it on. Oh, it's true. I didn't even let him spend so much money on me for that ring at the last auction . He is not allowed to buy it. Gu Niannian, do you want to be shameless in this marriage? Is the wedding dress yours? Gu Niannian, are you shameless ? Is this wedding dress yours? Sister, you came just in time. I will be Mrs. Fu soon. Come over here and help me see. Does this wedding dress look beautiful on me? It's so beautiful. Fu Jingyan ordered it for you. Is this what President Fu Sihan ordered ? This is Mr. Fu's customer. Please take it off right away . I am also Mrs. Fu. Why should I take it off to dream about your spring and autumn dreams? Fu Jingyan can't afford this wedding dress. If you take it off for me, I won't get it. I won't give you anything if it's ruined. Oh, sister, no. I'm sorry , I don't have a wedding dress. How are you going to get married ? Are you naked ? But you like to sleep with people , so you just want to see men naked. Are you crazy about being Mrs. Fu ? If you look in the mirror and give me a wedding dress, you can't get married. Fu family, if you dare to hit me , I won't just hit you . Okay , don't come over here . Gu Wanwan, you dare to do this to me . Brother Jing Yan will take revenge on you. Aren't you just relying on Fu Sihan to be so arrogant? The Fu family will soon belong to Brother Jing Yan. He will not spare Fu Si. Han Geng will not let you go. The old man said personally that he wanted to hand over the Fu family to Fu Sihan. Fu Jingyan is anxious and he will What can I do to hurt Fu Sihan and Xiaonuan? What Gu Niannian just said is not quite right. I have to go to the Fu family. Where is Assistant Fu Sihan? The president is having a meeting inside. Are you okay? Is my husband injured, followed or plotted ? What if it happens? You must tell me what happened , don't make me worry , okay, then you're fine I'm going back to work first. Hey, you're all here. Say hello to everyone before you go. Madam, hello. Hello everyone , this plan is good. The bonus will be 20%. Thank you, madam. By the way, you have to be careful with Fu Jingyan. I suspect he is not well-intentioned . I know that I have obtained the core technology secrets. What you promised me is also It's time to do it, Fu Jingyan, you dare to betray the Fu family and want the Fu family . I won't see if you have the ability. I'm so old and prefer you. My ability is nothing. If it weren't for the old man, do you think you can still stay in the Fu family and be sent abroad? If you dare to run , break his legs Fu Sihan, you will definitely die before me 20 Urgent. The patient died at 1:05 in the morning. Where are his family members? I am his wife . Let me see him. Fu Sihan is sorry. I should stay with you in the company so that you might not get into a car accident. I am not dead yet. I thought you, Fu Sihan, wouldn't scare me, okay? I would be really scared. The hospital had to change the ward in an emergency. I didn't have time to tell you. I didn't mean to scare you . Why are you crying like this? I have such a problem with you. Am I that important to you ? I am willing to trade my life for yours. I don't want to. If I really die in front of you, you have to live well. If you dare to die, I will remarry and have sex with another man. I don't believe you will agree to the baby's long life and the family is full of children and grandchildren. I agree, but you have to be buried with me. I won't remarry Fu Sihan. Please promise me not to leave me behind in this life, okay? Well , wait until I 'm discharged from the hospital and we'll have a wedding. Husband, I'll pick you up from the hospital. Didn't you say last time that I had to call you when I tried on the wedding dress ? We don't have to try it this time. I canceled the wedding. Gu Wanwan , we are getting divorced. Fu Sihan, what are you talking about? I've been acting with you for so long I 'm tired of signing the divorce agreement. I won't sign it. I don't believe what you said. You obviously like me. You obviously like me. Who wouldn't like your face ? You took the initiative to seduce me to cooperate with you. Don't be sentimental. You are here. Are you lying because something happened? Gu Wanwan and I were just playing for fun. I didn't expect you to be so easy to lie . If you're nicer, you'll take it seriously. They're right. It 's you. How can you say that Fu Sihan, go away, Fu Sihan, don't leave. Fu Sihan , you said you wouldn't leave me behind . Do you have to get a divorce? We shouldn't have gotten married in the first place . You used me to help you get revenge. Fu Jingyan clearly knew it wasn't the case. I 'm with you because I like you. Fu Sihan, you said you wouldn't leave me behind. You can't just keep talking. Gu Wanwan, it's fine if you just chase me away and you won't leave . I haven't had enough fun with this body of yours . You stay and see our Mrs. Fu What's going on, Fu Sihan, how could you do this to me ? If you don't want to stay , then do me a favor. Fu Sihan, you bastard, send a few more people to protect her. President , if you like the madam so much, why did you force her into a car accident? The real culprit has not yet been found. If Wan Wan is also targeted, do you think I can save her? Wan Wan, Master Fu, Grandpa has been wronged . I will break his legs today to vent your anger . Grandpa , I think he has some reasons for you. Still protecting him How could he let go of such a good daughter-in-law ? He won't let you go to the family heirloom. He will only recognize you as his daughter-in-law. Go back to my old house with me and have a good sleep. Tomorrow I will call Sihan over and listen to what he says. Well, I don't want to. Do you want a child? Why are you looking at your phone? Look at me, Fu Sihan. I believe in you. Don't let me down. I'm already old. It's normal for me to feel uncomfortable when I sleep. Fortunately, my daughter-in-law is here . Old man, what 's the matter with you? Old man, you Are you okay , old man , old man, old man , Gu Wanwan, what did you do to the old man ? You little hooves dared to poison the old man's family heirloom. Isn't that good enough for you ? When did she return to China ? You have such a poisonous heart. No matter what you want to do, call an ambulance first. If you delay the treatment of the old man, you are the murderer. You have stolen the stolen goods and gained it. You still have the nerve to deny it and want to pour dirty water on us. Tell you , but we have all seen it. You are the one who killed the old man. Are you a doctor? You can tell at a glance that the old man is dead . Don't make excuses. A discerning person can tell at a glance that the old man got into trouble because he ate your food. Is it possible that you still want to deny that you didn't cook the porridge? Of course you have to stay and pay for the old man's life today. I can't afford to lose your life, but I'm not an unreasonable person. Just hand over your shares of Fu's and I won't pursue any further investigation. It turns out you want the shares. You've harmed the old man and you still won't admit it. I gave you the courage. Do you think Fu Sihan will continue to support you? He has played with you enough and won't care about you anymore. Why don't you follow me? I don't think you are dirty. I think you are dirty. Don't touch me. Who gave you the courage? Dare to delay the old man to save Fu Si? Hanmi , why don't you go away? Fu Sihan, Gu Wanwan, you have harmed the old man. Did you drive me away to protect her? I will personally find out what she did. It's not anyone else's turn to intervene. But you, Mi, who can help you ? Mi from my hands. The master who escaped You haven't figured out my son's matter yet . You have no right to ask me. Is the old man poisoned? There is indeed something wrong with this bowl of porridge . Gu Wanwan , what else can you say? Fu Sihan, something happened to you and the old man . I know you are chasing me because you don't want to implicate me. Don't leave too much. Madam, what you said is right, young master. Stop duplicity. Gu Wanwan, I didn't say it clearly enough. Don't pester me anymore. No matter what you say, I will recognize you. I will never leave you. You who can't drive me away. follow me There will be danger. As long as I am with you, I am not afraid of any danger . But I am afraid that you will get hurt . Do you know that the words you said before are the greatest harm to me? Fu Sihan, only you can hurt me. How can you bear it? I'm sorry, it was my fault. Fu Sihan, please stop pushing me away, okay. No matter what happens, I will be with you . I promise you, they will still attack you. Uncle Chen, please bring your will . I will send someone to take you and the old man there. A safe place is good Brother Jing Yan, I went home today and saw my parents. They are all urging us to get married. You are so old that I don't know where Fu Sihan hid you. My will has not been found yet. I can't get Mrs. Fu. How can I be in the mood to get married? Jing Yan Brother, Aunt , Jing Yan, do you dislike me? I miss you, be good. Qiao is sensible, how could he not like the old man? He doesn't give up. He is not at peace in his heart. He has no intention of getting married at the moment. Don't think too much . Damn it, I can't contact you. Where have you been? Don't talk nonsense. We haven't seen each other for so long. Hurry up and let me feel good. I'll take Gu Wan. I'll send you Gu Wanwan's pornographic photos This time I want you to look good. Why do you have those photos ? Sister, I asked Brother Hao to look for you. Of course I will have him take photos of you. You are so stupid to trick you out with just a few photos. Our Brother Hao, but I've been waiting for you for a long time. Do you want money? How much do you want? I'll give it to you. Don't come here. I don't get money for doing things for my little baby . She knows more in bed than she does. I'll let you go. You damn ghost gets anxious when you see a woman. I can't satisfy you anymore. I slept with you too much You have to try something new. Gu Niannian, you are messing around behind Fu Jingyan's back. Aren't you afraid that he will know? Sister, you should take care of yourself first. Brother Jing Yan won't know this, but Fu Sihan will soon receive the video of you and Brother Hao being intimate . You just called him a dead ghost and I recorded it . Now Fu Jingyan knows that you dare to betray me, right? No, no, Brother Jing Yan is your sister. She was deceived by you last time. Do you think I'm blind this time? Don't let me see you again or I'll destroy you. Gu Wanwan, I won't let you go, Brother Hao, you'll kill her tonight. I will kill Mrs. Fu who is trying to fool me into thinking that I have no brains and will listen to you . Just treat it as an apology for what happened last time. Sir, you don't remember the villain's farewell. You and I know you and you have colluded. You want me, Gu Wanwan, you and I are such a prodigal . How dare you ask me to help you wash your mouth ? No, Gu Wanwan. Please save my sister. Do you know that Jing Yan Niannian is missing ? Do you know where she is? Where did that kind of hooker go? Ask our family Jing Yan what he is doing to his in-laws. How can you say such a thing? Your daughter slept with others behind my back . I haven't even asked her to settle this debt . How dare you? Come and ask me, tell you to get out of Jincheng as soon as possible or else I It's all your fault for letting you two come to blame. What did you teach your daughter to do ? You followed her everywhere to offend people and made us bankrupt. Now we have to be kicked out of Jincheng. You blame me. She is our daughter. If I don't care for her, who will? She, then you can live with her . Don't worry, I won't give you a penny if we get divorced. Do you dare? Look, do I dare? Wanwan . The couple of the Gu family exposed each other in order to get more money for the divorce . Now Gu Haibo got into the country because of tax evasion, and Zheng Lanzhi's property has all been seized . Nothing to hold them too Fu Jingyan is greedy and told them to get out of Jincheng. I guess he just said that he has no time to care about the Gu family and is focused on dealing with Fu Sihan. I will implement the plan tomorrow . Okay, brother Han, Fu Sihan , Fu family's annual summary meeting You didn't call me, are you afraid? Everyone knows what you have done. What have I done ? Stop being arrogant. I have found evidence that you secretly laundered money through projects . You can't deny it. People like you are not worthy of being the president of Fu, Fu Jingyan. Take these things. If you dare to say that he laundered money , who are you? You have nothing to say. Have you forgotten that I own 10% of Fu's joint-stock company? Shouldn't I come when such a big thing happens to the company ? Who did these accounts? I just listened to the president's instructions and helped him do a few things. As long as I am not responsible for a false account , you can do it for him The accountant should be good. How much money did he give you, when and where? He didn't use his status as president to force me and said he would fire me if I didn't do it. He also made it impossible for me to survive in Jincheng. Fu Sihan, we have always believed that you can't think of it. You would do this kind of thing, you would hollow out Fu's pair What good do you get? I heard that the old man was poisoned by your wife. Was it also your instigation? It seems that there is something wrong with the old man's will. You and your wife wanted the Fu family, so they forced the old man to write the will and wanted to kill him. Even his own father could do it. Fu Sihan is a wolf heart Gu Lung, you, Gu Wanwan, are not a good person . Shut up, Fu Sihan. If you dare to do it, don't you dare to be criticized . Now everyone knows the good things you have done, even if you kneel down and beg for mercy , it will be useless. I advise you to resign and leave. Why is Mrs. Fu so anxious to leave? Tell me clearly to my husband. I didn't do you any good by forcing you to do something, right? I didn't give it to you. Where did the villa worth 10 million in your name come from ? It was a gift from my husband. Did you hear clearly? She was bribed and the so-called evidence still needs me. Tell me, Mrs. Han , is she really going to give you a salary increase, CEO? Ying Ming, Gu Wanwan , you poisoned the old man. I haven't asked you to settle the score yet. How can you have the face to talk ? Yes, the old man is in trouble. Fu Sihan doesn't let people visit and stops others from checking. Gu Wanwan has made it clear that he has something evil in his heart. Now the old man is being arrested . He's hiding and he doesn't know what's going on He is deliberately back-testing. We don't agree to let such a heartless person stay in the Fu family. If you don't agree with me, Fu Sihan, it is your turn to do things. The Fu family is not yours alone. If you look down on us, we will not keep you. I also support Mr. Fu, Mr. Fu Sihan, and you resigned voluntarily when you understood the truth. Fu Jingyan stole Fu's core technical secrets. Are you sure you want to support him? Are you slandering me ? Everyone will know that I gave you a chance and it was you. Find it yourself You should go to jail because of this. Dear shareholders, I ask you again, do you still support Fu Jingyan? Yes, I took the secret , but I didn't betray Mr. Fu. Fu Sihan, please save your energy and keep these words . Talk to the police Wait, , you actually woke up , didn't I wake up at the right time? Jing Yan. I never expected that you would be so vicious and dare to poison me. No , it's not me. You bribed the servant and finally hired him, saying that you gave it to him. Grandpa Yao , I know I was wrong Stop it. You , a sinister villain like you, do n't deserve to be called my grandpa. From now on, there will be no place for you in the Fu family. I will send you in with my own hands, so as not to harm the reputation of our Fu family again. Grandpa, everyone who eats everything in and out of the Fu family should get out of the Fu family. The person is you, Chairman Dong . I was also confused for a moment . Blame me for not being clear-headed . Please forgive me this time. From today on, I will officially hand over the company to Si Han. Let's see who dares to question this matter. Can this be called me? It chills my heart. It 's all a lie . Do n't say that. Your son is a very good brat. He dares to divorce you and kick you out of the house. You still speak for him. I'll give you all the property in my name. I passed it on to her. Now that she is in a good mood, she will favor me. You are enlightened. Okay , you don't have to accompany me anymore. Hurry up and cultivate your relationship. Let's try to let me hold my grandson as soon as possible. Master Fu , let's go home first and visit you at the old house another day. I am the daughter of a daughter. Miss, I have noble parents. You love me the most. Look at my face. She's actually crazy. She asked for it. It 's Fu Jingyan who sent her to a mental hospital. He was caught embezzling huge amounts of public funds. Zhang Peipei is trying to find a way to get him and take him away. Let me go, don't touch Jingyan, mom, okay? easy Get you out, listen to me, don't even think about dealing with Fu Sihan, let 's go abroad, I'm not willing to accept why I have nothing, I want to leave, you leave, I won't leave , I want revenge, Jing Yan , oh , are you bothering me , Jing Yan, my husband ? Cook for you tonight Can't you eat ? It's better to do something more meaningful than eating. It's still so early. Mother Liu is still here . It's too immoral. No, no, no. What are you thinking in your mind? I want to propose again. Wanwan, please agree. I may have used up all my luck in the rest of my life to marry such a good person. Don't you regret it? You will never know it in this life. You kid must listen to my instructions for the wedding this time . Give your daughter-in-law a phoenix crown and a phoenix crown. Why is it so elegant ? You have to listen to me later I can do it, then I'll make the decision. When the time comes, I'll put all my antiques on display and let them see how respectable my daughter -in-law is . You always put on such a big scene, aren't you stealing my spotlight from my daughter-in-law's home venue ? What's wrong with you? Did Mr. Liangtou forget that you are my wife? Why is he vying for favors? As long as I haven't forgotten. I'll go back to the company first and pick you up later. My daughter-in-law, let's set an auspicious day first. How about the 8th of next month? It seems too rushed. It's already been two today It's the 15th and the 25th. Chaoyang Road. From here to Fu's, you must take Chaoyang Road. Will Fu Sihan be okay ? I have to leave beforehand . The old man wants to display antiques. What should I do to avoid being outdone by him? The CEO is richer than you. It's useless no matter what you do. Why are you here? I'm worried about you. You're okay. There was a car accident in front of us. We were just in a traffic jam. What can happen? It turns out that the car accident has already happened. You all should die. Madam President, be careful . Fu Sihan . 120 Is there someone injured here ? Fu Sihan, please keep insisting. How is Dr. Fu Sihan? The operation was successful , but he is still in the critical stage and needs to be observed for a week. Whether he can wake up or not depends on his own daughter-in-law. You are the one who killed me. The scenery You pay for his life, what are you doing? You spread the word about Jing Yan, he did all the bad things, and he deserves to die. But what did Fu Sihan do wrong? I tell you , if anything happens to him, your son owes a debt, and I let you come, and you will kick her out as soon as possible , Mr. Fu. You go back and have a rest. Just let me take a rest here . Think about how many days I haven't slept. Look at what your face looks like. I can't sleep. Whenever I close my eyes, he looks injured. Master Fu, he will get better, right? Si Han can't bear to leave you. He will definitely wake up. Wanwan , hubby, when you wake up , I'll call the doctor to come and let me take a look at you first. Is there anything wrong? You pushed me away. How could anything happen to me? That's fine . You said you wouldn't leave me behind . What should I do if you , you , and I ? Didn't you say you wanted to remarry? You would end up growing up with children and grandchildren with someone else. Do you have any intentions? Are you angry with me? Are you feeling uncomfortable? You won't be angry if you are angry. I don't want you to shed tears if you cry . Si Han is right. Don't cry on such a good day . You should just laugh. Wan Wan Er. What you should do now is hurry up and prepare for the wedding. When your husband recovers, I will pull him directly from the hospital . The arrangements for entering the wedding venue are very good , but then I'll be in trouble for you.