- It's a very common misperception that humans are fundamentally selfish- meaning every motivation that drives us is based in a desire for that we don't have any capacity for truly caring about other people. I think there are reasons to be confident that can't be true, and I think one of the most compelling is the existence of the So people who are highly about other people's welfare. And so I think the fact is pretty clear evidence that people are not fundamentally selfish. In addition, we now know on a spectrum: so there's very psychopathic but also people who are Most of that distribution of people definitely have the capacity and we've identified regions of the brain that specifically seem to encode the value of other people's welfare. I think it's really important for the reality of human nature based on the scientific literature because trusting one another is a lot more enjoyable way to be, and it's more accurate, And so to try to understand that better, I have been studying extreme who have done things in the real world that suggest they're unusually My name is Abigail Marsh. I'm a professor of at Georgetown University, and I study the neural and altruism, and aggression. The way we think about from the work of a psychiatrist who was a really legendary clinician who spent many, many years He wrote a book called and I think that title that makes people with psychopathy unique, which is that they outwardly even super normal. They seem just like anybody else, but that really is a mask that's concealing inner and the way that they In its extreme form, psychopathy can drive some of the most serious and violence that we see. So for example, the serial is perhaps the most psychopathic criminal. He killed dozens of young women over the course of a few decades. We'll probably never His behavior, and also the made it clear just how little He didn't think that they mattered. The thing that I think about serial killers like Gary Ridgway is just how normal they seem They had families, they were known members of their community that were not caught for many years, in part, because nobody suspected that they could be doing under the surface. And that's a really good There's somebody doing things that are so awful under the surface that you would think there must be some sign of it externally. But in the case of some there really isn't. I get asked a lot, &quot;What's the difference between the term The main difference is that the term is a scientific and clinical term, and the term &quot;sociopath&quot; It's really important to emphasize that no clinician or scientist as a psychopath. We don't refer to people as their disease or as their disorder anymore. And so I refer to people or who are psychopathic. So what we know about psychopathy is it's a neurodevelopmental disorder, in its extreme form affects maybe 2%. And it's pretty clear that people who go on to develop from a very early age because their brain is Psychopathy is best thought of as a constellation of personality traits, and the three key traits that most importantly, a mean, They really don't care about and they'll do things to benefit themselves. They're certainly more likely to engage in various forms of aggression, especially when that aggression is aimed at achieving a goal. So aggression can be divided Reactive aggression, which is the kind of aggression you show when somebody has made you mad, when you've been threatened, and then there's proactive aggression- it's deliberate aggression So you threaten to hurt somebody in order to take their money or to take something that belongs to them. You threaten to reveal somebody's secrets so that they do what you want them to do. That kind of aggression is Second is a bold, That boldness really They don't seem to understand They're not good at recognizing and if you have that problem, you're much more likely to do things that cause other people to feel fear without really understanding and they just don't respond to risk and threat and punishment That happens to be one of the reasons that the polygraph doesn't work, because that's one of is picking up on is fear people with psychopathy not nearly as strongly, at least. And third is being They'll steal things from people, they'll steal things from stores. They'll lie often easily, and not really even for any reason. It's not really your fault That's not to say that you If you hurt somebody I would never argue that- but I think it's really important that we balance our desire, that they experience some consequences from what they've done with our understanding that they didn't choose to be this way. On the other end of the spectrum are people who are anti-psychopathic, people who are, in some cases, who do things to help others at real risk and cost to themselves, like rescuing people or donating organs or bone They're genuinely unselfish. And I hesitate to say that because the image that that conjures up in most people's minds is if somebody who's they think of them as or somehow superhuman. It's not like they never swear. It's not like they when they're stuck in traffic. They're just ordinary people in most ways. The character of Iron Man is because, of course, he is very altruistic. He does a lot of things but he doesn't seem like an He's kind of a wise-cracker. He's done some things that are but at core, you can tell that he really does care about and he will go to great And so in some ways, I think that's a more realistic depiction of a genuinely altruistic person than the more sort of flat, one-dimensional old-school Although extraordinary altruism is not a clinical condition, obviously, it is typified by traits that set altruists So first, their humility. They tend to think of as anybody around them, despite the fact that they have actually done and that seems to be a really If you think that everybody helping others makes more sense. They tend to believe in the They're much less likely to believe that others can be truly evil. Finally, they seem to be more sensitive to other people's distress. They're more likely to empathize with and recognize other people's What's really unusual about is that even when it comes to people who were very distant from them, people who were only they still seem to value their welfare. We're supposed to help if they're in trouble, but if it's a perfect stranger, most of us don't see it as an And yet extraordinary altruists, I don't think really see it that way. They really do think, &quot;Well, this is a human being whose, you know, welfare is If people are interested in knowing how altruistic there are a couple tests that you can use to test yourself. One of the better self-report is called the TriPM, and it's available on the It is a brief but very well validated test of that bold, dominant, that typify psychopathy. And you can get a percentile score and find out where you fall. If you get a very low score it may be a sign that But another way to test that is using a personality What it really captures is the that other people fundamentally matter versus are exploitable for your own good. There's really good evidence that people can become more altruistic. If you look at global trends, you see generally that people are donating They're helping more strangers over time. One of the things that seems to make people is when they themselves are doing better. And I think because they and physical resources to do so, so that's really good news because it means that policies that promote flourishing and well-being will probably also promote generosity. But the best evidence for how people can become more And so I generally recommend that if people would like you think of some small to help other people, and it should naturally because one of the absolute is how incredibly pleasant it is. It's such a source of joy for And that becomes a - Want to dive deeper? Become a Big Think member and join our members-only community, watch videos early, and