- Thanks to Amaran for All right, we are back. All right, we are back and we are in, you might We're in the studio of Austin. - Hello. This angle's designed - I mean, I think I'm And the shot is- No, you're too tall. - Why are you using a prime - Okay, so we- Zoom it out. - So this doesn't happen. - Okay, here's the thing. This set was designed for and below and I am just slightly below. - Yeah, you look good in your shot. I'll give you- It's Austin height, everything, the studio that we are in and because we have all we're super limited on height. - He's already starting with the excuses and we haven't really This is still the introduction. - You brought the clipboard. - I didn't pick it up yet. Well, this is still just the introduction. - Okay, okay, hello. - Hi. - Austin Evans, right? That's what you're still - [Austin] That is still my name. I haven't changed it yet. - We are shooting on the Sony Alpha 1. This is for our camera, we'll talk about your gear in a minute. And we have the 16-25mm f/2.8, - It's so small. And also, audience, if Patrick Tomasso's way, this is not Patrick Tomasso on the camera. Unfortunately, Patrick suffered an injury something, something on his e-bike. But put something in the &quot;Patrick, get better, Especially if this guy now does a terrible job, then yeah. &quot;Patrick, please come - &quot;We miss you.&quot; - Audio wise, this is but also what we're doing because you use something similar anyway. Right now I'm using I said M-Key. It's a new letter. - That's another story for another day. - MKE 2 lavs. I'm going with the Rode Wireless Pros. You normally use MKE 2s as well. - Yes. - And you're going into AVX, right? - [Austin] Yeah, exactly, but we actually record via - And my last little is that this video is which I think will be an easy integration. - If you look up, you'll see a few. - But we'll get to that in a second. Okay, so why don't we start here with what's going on with this camera. - So this is a Sony FX3 I think it's 1.4. - This is an old EF lens that - Oh, it's EF, are you adapting it? - Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think we have a couple of adapters. I don't remember if I think it's the actual, - We've got three cameras. We've got, I guess A, B is a... What do you guys use this one for mostly? Like, tights on a product - [Austin] Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's also, I refer to that one a lot. - And then you've got an overhead. - Yes, and we have an FX3 It's the while we- - Patrick please come back. (all laughing) And while that C-cam is really quickly we'll pull that out because a lot of times We shot a video yesterday all the way over here and we - Who shot a video yesterday? - We shot a great video YouTuber setup compared to more budget oriented in mind. - Basically, go to Austin's channel. I don't know when I'm posting this video, but it'll probably be - Hopefully, yeah, yeah, yeah. - That was really fun by the - It was, no, it was super fun, super fun. But that's part of the reason like this, so we have Pretty much all the We can move it around. I refer to that camera a lot, even though this is We can get it nice and - Let's see. - That's actually FX30 and Alura. So this is the 18-80mm, Dude, this lens is really nice though. Like, this is the most one of the most expensive pieces of gear that we've ever purchased. - What made you wanna switch to, you know, FX series cameras or whatever? - It didn't, the RED just It just was not consistent enough for us. And that was around the a7S III was coming out, obviously FX3, FX30. - Where like the mirrorless cameras were getting good enough. And like it was to the point where like no one could - Have you been leveraging the autofocus, other than on this one? Like, are the other ones just - So none of the cam- So when we shoot a None of these cameras on auto focus. So the A-cam is just set. So it's... - Is that because you, you're not quite like because you were or like do you not- - Nothing ever moves. So because I'm always like, we've got like, I don't know, this much that's actually in focus and I never really step outside of that. - That explains why you're - Exactly. a mirrorless lens, every on and off or whatever- - Exactly, yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's just literally we 'cause that A-cam is or sorry, never meant to be... - (laughs) My A cam- - Is never meant to be used. - (laughs) Never meant to be moved. So that just stays there. But the B-cam is really what And again, half the we don't use any of these three, we just do handheld a7. - Looks like you've got a whole truss rail system going on. - Yeah, when we first moved in here, we thought we could tear out - Yeah. But basically, it's essentially And what we did is we sort like, truss covers so - [Gerald] Oh that is, I honestly didn't even think about it. - Yeah. Yeah, they look great. - And that's where all So we've got obviously everything and whatnot so we can from like our normal angles, Obviously if you look all these vines to kind of - It's kind of like TV You've emulated it with but it almost kind of reminds - These are all LED fixtures in here. So mostly the F21s. We do have- - Yes, all of the Amarans are Cs. - C meaning- one more over here. So they could, - That splash on the wall Whatever you want. - [Gerald] So you're doing - [Matt] We have just a - Woo. - So we have- - [Matt] Just almost any This is our interrogation when I'm- - It's good, it's good. Can we do Red Alert? Just prepare your eyes 'cause it gets- - Okay. - We got a lot of R and no GB. - Alright. Oh wow. - It's not nice to look at. - We walked into your It's great, and you're also What do they call it? Airline cable or whatever for safety. - [Austin] There are - I suppose. - You know, they got safety Yeah, I can see, I can Good job, good job. - I mean, I hung zero of them, but... Again, like, to kind of You guys are using rather I mean, if all these were SkyPanels. What that would've done to - [Austin] A lot. - But, so the F21s, they seem to be adequately filling that role. - Oh, phenomenal. - Yes. - And how was the DMX experience? - [Austin] Pretty easy. So they had the little dongles. - [Matt] Yeah, the F21s - [Gerald] So you just had to get a little dongle and then now- - A dongle per light. - Per light, obviously, yes. - But still you're only 20, 30 bucks to the fixture? - Yeah. I have lost years of my - You did a great job. But I think that's actually because I think I often push them and they're pushing like, more content creator focused, more affordable, whatever. But you can also build and put a couple dongles on and you're still cruising - And we don't even come They are only, like, what? Like, 20%? There's so much more. - Put 'em full tilt, (Gerald laughing) - We didn't do the power (all laughing) There's one thing I noticed, Austin, that I thought that you This is for you. - Oh, thank you. - I think I can improve - [Austin] Thank you, thank you. - It's a lot prettier than it was. - Why is it in standard def now? No, I'm just kidding. (laughs) - It says UHD right there. Yeah, I mean, you got me worried. - Thank you. - These are wonderful, and I feel like you've got your That's it, that's it. If I saw this in the store, I'd just buy three immediately. - That was the thing. Either you'd buy it or Okay, so clearly, you know, you have me in the, what did we call it earlier, the flagship room or something like that? - So this is Studio B. There's a reason why it's not A. - How is the flagship in Studio B? - Because it's not the biggest studio. - These letters don't make any sense. - No, no- - You barely use your A-cam. The flagship setup is in Studio B. - I always think B, B, B. No, each studio is - Yeah, I would like to say - No clipboard notes? I honestly, like, I mean, When you think I'm listening to you, I'm actually looking to where they're supposed to be and stuff. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I like that you have - Yeah, we use that all like, addresses on boxes and stuff. - It doesn't look like you - No. - We've lit things on fire with this. So if we leave Studio B... - Is this so I give - [Austin] It is, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's worth slightly more than - [Gerald] Rupee? - [Austin] So this is the This Is Studio. - [Gerald] This is the This Is Studio? - [Austin] This is the This Is Studio. - So you have, for if 'cause I honestly didn't for a long time, you have, I guess you kind of have three that - We have three channels that - Which are Austin Evans. This Is, and Denki. - [Gerald] And Denki's channel used to be working on the main channel. - Exactly. - The main channel we goofy projects and whatnot. And here, we're pretty much I say it's a podcast. We actually don't post It is just a YouTube show. - [Gerald] But it has a - [Austin] Podcast vibe, yeah. Like, 15 minute episodes. We do news, we do, like, games. - [Gerald] Here, let's sit in your chairs. - We can pretend that these microphones are attached to something. - Like, oh those SM7Bs, - The body. (both laughing) This set was designed for a different place, but it was designed to also just be sort of - Right. a couple of tweaks once But essentially, you can truss situation where but then you've got these on this side, which It's mostly 'cause we had to - Everything I've seen so like, detailed and well planned. It looks good, it looks really good. - Thank you. - I can see on the monitor, looks good. Are you using similar gear? It looks like FX cameras again. - Yep, yep. - Seems like you try to consolidate, like, roll out the same idea. - It's pretty much all the same. So there's three FX3s in here, as well as we have an mostly just to save a little bit money 'cause that's just the - Are you switching cameras or... - No, no, no, we don't - It's all done in edit. And it's all recorded in log as well. But we just have a couple LUT - Cool. - And we dump everything to the servers. - Another immaculate room. - Maybe we should go to a... You know what? You've got your expectations Maybe we should go look at some- - It's all downhill from here. (both laughing) - All right, take the lead. So this is our inventory. So we have, as you can Now Joanna does an amazing job of keeping things nice - It looks like it, yeah. - We've got, I mean, all kinds of stuff. So we've got boxes of keyboards, we've got, like, handheld gaming stuff. We've got monitors. - [Austin] Yes, all inventoried too. So pretty much everything like, inventory label on it. - This is what I can - Yeah. As somebody who suffers from similar, somebody has set this are equally distant from and also from each other, are coming in and kind of and I have a feeling that is annoyed by that and and kind of like line it up. Is that true? - I can neither confirm nor - Are your racks evenly - They're actually not, - They look pretty close. - We've added a lot of racks over the last, like, couple of years. But these are all- - Look at this, look at this. - Look at this. Would you look at that? - [Gerald] Even the, what are these, PS4s? - [Austin] Yes, 3s, 4s, 5s. - [Gerald] Even the PS4s are, pretty well spaced, you know? It's good. - This actually wasn't the original plan. So this area was actually going to be- - Why are you living in the past? - I mean, this was the original plan. - Everything- It's a strange form of modesty where every time I say you're like, you should've seen it before. - It was, no. You should have seen it It's nice in here. - It is nice. - What's this station over here? - [Austin] So this is - [Gerald] Okay. - [Austin] So basically everything gets logged in using this surface. - I love this. I love that you have an inventory system in a YouTube studio. It's fantastic. Somehow you're like tapped where I'm like, - I like how everything, I see you busted out a label You got an inventory system. I feel like there's like, there's that exist that I would love to look at. - Multiple spreadsheets, who took it, and who's 'cause they forgot to bring - You're definitely gonna get some biased, like, positively biased - That's all I wanted. all my weird pleasures. Show me something bad, though, let's go. - Something bad? - Well, this is the Denki studio. - You just got lit up. - I don't have as much but if I turn on the house So this used to be two rooms and then we knocked down a wall. - You guys and your used-to-be's, eh? - [Ken] Yeah, yeah. You know where they come from. - So Ken runs the Denki channel. - Yep. - Denki is a little bit YouTube approach of doing more reviews, sort of retrospectives and stuff. And it is a little bit, - But I can just come in, shoot the video, like, just flip a few and just have something - We don't have Ken mic'd at all. So either I'll be using the on-camera mic or I'll just be, the MKE 2's if somebody's next to you. - But you'll be able to and you kind of complained about not being able to but it's actually created You wanna do the, you clap for me. It's pretty dead, right? - It used to be worse. We had hardwood floors in here. - The used-to-be's. - Yeah, it used to be. - This is the used-to-be crew. - It's all the trauma we - Rocking FX cameras again. I think, it's not like, oh but if you're gonna use It just makes the workflow easier. - Yeah, so a lot of what Denki does is we mix and match footage maybe some B-roll will end - So it's so much easier - So mixing all the same In fact, this FX30, of the pedestal camera that's over there, the FUJINON lens. - [Ken] We used to work - That was literally the old setup was we had an FS7 in that 18-55mm. And so a lot of the gear passed down over the years as we've sort of upgraded But that's the main - The FX30 would be 'cause you have these APS-C Cine glass, you can just use. - Yep. It's so good, but obviously - And then more Amaran F21s over here. - F21, 300x. - I got a GVM light in the corner there, but we can ignore that one. - Yeah, we won't talk about that. What you have there is an opportunity to have another Amaran light. - That's true, you know what? How are you recording-- Are you recording on the cameras? - Yeah, so I actually manually stand up and hit record on all of 'em. - Poor thing. - He manually stands up as opposed to automatically standing up. And I see you got ND on the window. - Yeah. We love these things to death. We had them in our old studio, that's one of the positive - Okay. just pan the camera that - I think I'm gonna need in a couple years when of the old studio. - We can let you know what - Yeah exactly. (all laughing) So we come over to this which is actually not very full. - Okay, you guys, no. - 'Cause most gear lives in the studios. - You guys set this up. This is not how you normally keep things. - Okay, please illuminate me. What are we doing wrong? - Audience, am I right Like, every single thing that we've been to is like immaculately... - You are trying to insinuate and tried to tidy some things? - This is like those AD videos where the person's like, oh I love limes. - I love limes, I love them. - Last night you had a - If I'm honest with you, it actually does normally look like this. Like, pretty much. - Oh, well done. we don't pull this stuff very often. - You don't need to It's well organized and it's if you just start setting then you have a giant pile of things. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Everything in its right place. - Exactly. - Yeah, and this is really So our a7s live here and that's that we use to, you 16-35mm is like our main lens that we use when we're doing handheld stuff. Oh my god, dude, the C100, the first time- So I used to shoot on Nikon. - You mean the RED? - Too soon. But the first time that I was like oh my god, - Getting boring how good of a job you guys are doing in this studio. - I got some jank for you. - Look at this, too. I mean even all the little is in the nice little buckets. This is my system too - It's not good, right? Yeah, yeah. I said, I got a triple coming hot off to Ninja and you don't know which one's which when they plugged in. - Yes, yes. - [Austin] The thing is, it was a lot- - And if one doesn't detect, - You're unplugging. - It was worse when it 'cause like you start one or the other, now that it's H.265, they But before you started transferring, you realize one dropped out any of them until 30 - Yeah, 'cause even if somehow it cancels your - Yes, yes, yeah. So this is Studio A. - Oh, okay. - The biggest studio we have by far. - I have a feeling this is that you call it Studio A. - It is going to make lots of sense when you see how big it is. So after you, my friend. Yeah, there's no studio in here. (Austin laughing) That's Studio F, there's So this will be Studio A eventually. This is by far the biggest - So we've seen where they and the garbage or whatever. - That's exactly it. All this stuff was out there last week. - No. (laughs) - And they're like, Just like hoofed it in. It was all lit with a hot minute ago or whatever. Just like throwing bulbs in here. The room's probably filled - Yeah, a little bit, a little bit. So basically we are going and this is going to be- - Hey, we're finally talking about future. - Future. Exclusive, not 2017 stuff. Basically we're going to and basically build two and basically we're going live in the middle, so - So not physically split in two. - Yes. - Like, just demarcated or whatever. - Exactly, yeah. - We didn't really mention it much, but we are in, I guess like - Yeah. - And this is all one floor - All one floor. - I dunno, what's the square - Each floor is about 6,500 square feet. - And you have two floors? - Two floors, yeah, yeah. So basically the way we have it set up is that all production happens upstairs, everyone works downstairs. - Okay. all that kinda stuff is downstairs and there's no attached so like it's actually, hopefully There's not a lot of cars. - Well smart doing shooting - Exactly 'cause like- - Yeah, you can definitely notice people, like, stomping around - Right. - Because there's a lot of like air conditioning units and nonsense. But you can definitely hear - It's just the smart play. - All right, get outta - Okay. So this is meant more so So all of this stuff can But basically I'm always we have our a7, our other a7 here. Most of the time we're doing - [Gerald] Okay. - So we've got the prompter on the camera and I'm, you know, telling is a scam or I'm telling or whatever the case basically kinda gets rotated around every time we have another project. And we shoot in this So we we're shooting here even sometimes we'll do of a video or something like that. - I'm telling you, this Amaran integration is just the easiest one of all time. Every room is loaded with Amaran. Everybody's using these - Yes. Like, and they're buying so - I couldn't even tell I mean, you can tell, like the F21s are - Yeah. We got a list of the 150s in the back or 150cs, sorry, in the back. We have some of the tubes down here. We got this guy on this Actually this is... - And that is the cool is that a lot of them are full - Yes, yes. - And for creators, full color - This is props. - So we keep a bunch of random So this guy... - [Gerald] That's creepy. - This baby is 150 years old, actually. - Have you ever used it in a video? - Yeah. That's what, everything is from a video. How do you feel about being I dunno if it's gonna fit, - It's like if Blade Runner was lame that this would be this... What the hell is this? - So this is a reproduction like a keyboard jacket the express knockoff or whatever of it. You look good, man. Should I wear this for - It'll get real hot. I will tell you, it's heavy, right? - It is heavy, yeah. - And none of those are pockets, too. They're just really big and... - Also, I don't have any dexterity. I don't have a good - It may not be your size. Linus helped us build our and he lives in our server room every day. So we have, this one is an all-SSD server. So this is what all the editors actually work off of via 10-gig ethernet. We have an archive server of hard drives, which for if we wanna pull up old And this does backups. So basically every night active projects puts it on here so we have a five-day rolling back up. But what we do have is an LTO tape drive. I wanna give points to the like, the organization And also archival reasons. I mean, it's,... - So I'll tell you we had about a year ago, and I have still been slowly working through using the LTO to build the old like B-roll backlogs, all that kind of stuff. So basically every video, as the entire thing, A-roll, the whole thing lands one that's here, one that lives offsite. - If there's viewers who and like, &quot;what are these Believe it or not, you can still use, what would we call them? Data tapes. - I guess and you can record data to tape, not dissimilar then cassette tapes of... - Exactly. - And for archival because you don't really want on a shelf for, what are these - 50 years. - I believe it's 50 years. - Wow. But I think that they're and these are 12 terabytes. On top of that, they're like, it's like a hundred bucks Like, they're not- Actually no, you know what? I think LTO-8 has actually Actually might be a little So it's actually fairly economical. And the thing is, they're fast. You can actually get like off of this, but it's linear. - So you want to open it up or whatever, it'll work, to pick a file, it has to spend and then you pull it off. - If you need to cold store data for a long ass time, - A hundred percent, yeah. This is our edit den. So everyone's got the day off today. They knew you were coming, - [Gerald] That's right. - Everyone was very afraid. But this is where all the editors work. So right now we have - [Gerald] Everybody's got - Yes, so we all use Final Cut. - Okay. everyone is using Apple silicon. So almost all of the editors So they're all M1s, so M1 Pros and Max's. - As far as the workspace goes, it's got a decent vibe in here. You know, it seems pretty Good air temperature. - You know, we got the AC- So this was actually not So editors used to be on the other side- - See what I mean? You can't give the guy a thanks, thanks, so before... - Yeah. - We just built the space - Well, I'm reviewing it now. - Thank you, I appreciate that. - I'm not traveling through time. - If only you saw what it Yeah, I mean, it seems - Wonderful, thank you. The edit team actually built this for you. They built this for you. - Did they? So no one actually works at this desk, so they're very excited. They wanted to build this specifically 'cause they're trying to But I don't think you took the bait, so I just wanted to show you that they put a lot of effort into this. - [Gerald] Well see, I I know I have a character. - [Gerald] But I'm also just not mean to people I don't know. - So it's like, this might have just been somebody's favorite trinkets - Someone's just a really big fan of- - Who like ducks? Morons, you know, like that's not... (both laughing) Somebody was like, that or whatever, you know? Why is the guy so mean? - Well look, everyone was expecting Gerald to come in and roast the setup. I don't know what to do now - I will say, if somebody was you know, none of these but do you think it I'd be like, no, it's absolutely terrible. What do you guys doing with this random collection of You know what? I actually don't hate this duck. (both laughing) He's got a little personality, you know? I don't hate it. - [Austin] So we're done, we did it. - Here's your final score sheet. - Oh my God. Is that, are you sure? - Yeah. - That's right. And... - Because you passed, I'll - I got a star! - I have to say, okay, jokes aside. - Yeah. best studio. I didn't bring an award. - Are you sure? - So I don't have anything to give you. I gave you the star, but Okay, fine, I'll tell you I'll give you two stars. First time ever, and not only - The last star. Is this the end? Fantastic, fantastic studio. - This might be the first the audience of the - Yes. - 'Cause you were nice - Because there are people like, I don't understand why this guy's going to Marques' studio and Marques is so nice. All of the studios are immaculate. And even the space between, organization. I got nothing to say, you know? - Like, nothing at all? - Thank you, I appreciate that. - Let's shoot a thumbnail or something. - I got number one. - Cut that out. - Okay, didn't make it? Well you know what? - No! - No! So close, I was so close. - Is there a contractual obligation that if ever a YouTuber has a tool chest, that it has to be a Husky tool chest? That is completely incorrect. - Where's the rest of Eugene? Where's the rest- - If there's one guy that should be fire resistant to data - Little bit. (Austin vocalizing) You wanna sit in my chair? - Yo, that feels like tungsten. - That is a tungsten cube, yep. Hey guys, it's Austin. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. - Pixel, blah, blah, blah.