Good morning, guys. A city where many Americans but there's been a massive influx Some have told me they're here Others because of So today we're gonna meet up His name's Ross. From Austin, Texas. Says his quality of life We're gonna get the inside scoop from Ross about living here in Mexico City. Let's do this. upbeat jazz ROSS: This is beautiful Polanco. We're in Parque Uruguay. PETER: So you moved here -That's right, I've always loved I was in the military. So I lived in Japan, Korea. -I've been... traveled all over the world. So it's always been part of my plan PETER: I first came here, like, and I would tell I'd say, &quot;Hey, this is a great city.&quot; I get it, it's got a bad reputation and it was more dangerous back then, but I think that... I don't know if you'd call it a secret, -Mm-hmm. -Like, there are a lot of -Oh, yeah. A lot. Tons. And especially COVID, people came here -Right. -So, you know, In my opinion quality of life goes way up. -Hello, sir. ROSS: When people ask me 'cause really it's like People, friendly people here. -Great food. I love the lifestyle. In Austin you have to have a car. So... -And Ubers here are ridiculously cheap. -Like, I spent $3.00 coming over. ROSS: Este es mi amigo. PETER: Hola. PETER: Marco? PETER: So you have -Yeah, yeah. ROSS: One of the biggest problems, is earthquakes in Mexico City -Wow, nice place. PETER: Hello, Sophie. PETER: Wow. I'm sure you've been to Chapultepec Park. It's, like, right there. Oh yeah, right over there. -From the other side of the condo The Chapultepec Castle. PETER: This is amazing. So okay, what would this cost -Oh, [scoffs] Like, maybe $8,000 a month or something It's cheaper for this For $2,000 a month... And then this is, like, ...for less. This is very cool. Guest bedroom. And you offered me this, Exactly, yeah. -Coulda been your room. PETER: And a lot of people as having those modern skyscrapers, right? -And there's a part of town Where all the... All the highrises? It feels like you're in That was a Best Buy before the pandemic. They had to close down. And then we got a Walmart. So it's like... ROSS: This is the master bedroom. -We also have a housekeeper -And that's normal here though, right? -Yeah, yeah. Products will be, Like if you want to buy it's gonna be, like, about the same. Even produce, surprisingly, But labor is where PETER: Sophie, how do you feel 'Cause everyone hears -Yeah, people say that Obviously Polanco is very fancy, So it's pretty safe. I can walk around after even like 8:00 PM. It's pretty safe here Which is kind of, um... It's like a slum town. -Probably you gotta be careful PETER: Are you from Austin? -Okay. Yeah, like three years ago. -What a love story. -How do you speak so well in three years? -Oh... -She's been studying longer. She studied in Ireland and New Jersey. -And, like, part-time job as translator, -Oh, that's amazing. -I'm gonna study -Okay, why here? -Why? That's a really good question. So first, tuitions. How much cheaper here than the US? -Like 10% or something. -10%? I mean 10% of the cost. -It's, like significantly cheaper. -For example there's UNAM. -Which is Harvard. -Okay. You pay only 50 pesos. ROSS: Per semester or... ROSS: Wow. PETER: Three dollars for four years? ROSS: I think it was completely free -And then it just changed. PETER: We're gonna go to, what you said, -That's right, Masaryk. Avenida Masaryk, which is, like, and Gucci, and Rolex, PETER: You were talking about your costs are down, have you noticed any resentment or friction Because to sort of have a winning... ...winning outcome there has to be -It's hard to tell. 'Cause Mexicans are famous They won't say no to you. They won't tell you how they really feel, Because to my face they've only ever been -Okay, okay. -But I hear about it from other expats. Like, &quot;Oh, we're coming in PETER: You know it's interesting, I did He lives in Condesa. -He's a Mexican guy. He enjoys it -Hmm. -He wants to meet people -Mm-hmm. And for him it's a net benefit -Right. -But he said where their living costs have gone up a lot but their income hasn't, So it really depends who you ask. What I've noticed. -And I did the same thing in Ukraine It was 1/4 the cost of San Francisco. I just failed a startup, I had -Uh-huh. -Barely to live in San Francisco and spend 1/4 the money, Which was video-making. Which didn't make any money -Right. -And so by going there -Give yourself a longer range... -I could actually create So I fully get it. I did the same thing, you know? -The Mexicans that I have met In, like, Roma, Condesa area. -And they're the same way. PETER: At an energetic level, this place is way better off... I'll say this neighborhood... ...than a lot of US cities right now. -'Cause you don't have a ton of -Yeah, I don't know, again, societally, but it's not an issue around here. In this neighborhood. In this neighborhood, yeah. PETER: To the audience, We're in a neighborhood in a massive city, There are slums, favelas. You're a part of the bubble and you guys are in a bubble here, right? -Yeah, pretty much. Yeah. -Which is probably taking up 3% -Yeah, yeah, if that. It's a huge footprint, the city. So you can have this story here and moved to a completely other... -Mm-hmm. -And your reality and your experience Those are the stories -Right. -Dogs in a park... Designer dogs in a park, [Ross chuckles] Afghan hounds... -Yeah, those are pretty common here -Afghan hound? I've never seen one of these. PETER: We're making videos MAN: Yeah? -You're Canadian? -American? -How do you guys like it? -So colorful, cultural, lively, -Yep, love the prices. -Happier than home you think? -Weird eh? But it's the truth. PETER: Why is that do you think? PETER: Really? PETER: But here they're not living simp... I mean they're living MAN: Right. PETER: But you think overall? PETER: Guys, thank you. Gracias, Senior. upbeat jazz ROSS: So one of our is this is Reforma, like the main road. -Yeah, sure. -And it closes on Sunday to cars. -So you can just bike down it, PETER: Okay, Ross, as a guy that spent and now living here, what do you think -The Mexican family And I've seen a lot of the, you know, Where they ask Mexicans, and they always say, &quot;I don't understand &quot;...they leave the house -Okay. -Well that might have changed. I think a lot of guys are... because of economics. -Oh, true. Yeah, yeah. PETER: All right, guys, it's hard to fully but this city does have an energy. A magnetic energy, and a vibe, Of course there's And not everyone is living their best life it's a very pleasurable thing to do. PETER: Okay, what do we have here, Ross? -We got dos tacos el pastor. Which is like a pork and then we got two chicharron. PETER: Here we have a quesadilla. Basically the same thing So we have all these salsas here. What's the hot one? This one? The green one. SOPHIE: I think this is the hottest one. That's fantastic. So this is almost like Fair to say? -Yeah, it's like a chain. -Okay. PETER: Would these be -No. I wouldn't say so. Like, the taco puesto, the taco stands, we get tacos for eight pesos. -Eight pesos? So they're actually kind of expensive. -So 28 pesos is $1.50. -Mm-hmm. -And that's an expensive one? PETER: Where are you guys taking us? ROSS: We're heading to Art Works. The independent coworking space And they also have an art gallery. So there's local and foreign artists MAN: I've run a gallery in Toronto for the past 10 years. -I wanted to reopen it this building kind of let us do that. PETER: So where are you from? -How long have you been down here? GRAEME: January, 2021, ...and make art for three weeks. -Uh, and the COVID obviously and there was a COVID hotel So if you came back to the country While you were waiting -Wait, wait, $2,000 -If you were abroad? -If you were outside of Canada, yeah. You were coming back to the country you had to get So you had to put yourself up from a list of certain hotels and the estimated cost was about $2,000. Which for me it was cheaper to stay here I figured if I was gonna I might as well be stuck somewhere warm, I stuck around Mexico and decided to come back and live here. -Why did they gouge you guys so hard? -Um, I have a feeling it was probably and the friends that he has I think probably. The people that were lobbying. PETER: Let's stick the foreigners -Yeah, I think it was to discourage or trips out of the country for fun for two weeks or whatever, so... PETER: This is very cool. Turn of the century? -Okay, '23? So the downstairs is the art studio space. This floor is the reincarnation We've set it up in a way So it's part art gallery, part lounge. Down here is part of the courtyard through the art studio section. -Very cool. How has this been received here? Like, do you have mostly Americans, -It's a mixture of both. -Both. that's just like a beer and fun one. So people that do stuff. -There's about 700 people in the group a third locals, and a third people ...but want to be part of the fun. -Um, so we do have a good mix. So these are our coworking space. -We have two cowork rooms here. We offer free tea, free coffee, free beers. -How would you compare the culture here I like the vibe on the streets, I would say in Toronto people are focused on work. -It's literally, like, I find the first thing people ask is, -Okay. You know, I've had the gallery for 10 years 'cause doing emerging artists you're selling paintings -Exactly. -You gotta sell a lot of $500 paintings -Yeah. -'Cause usually it's a 50/50 split So the... Yeah, I just felt the main focus there &quot;How much money do you make?&quot; &quot;What do you do?&quot; and that kind of thing as opposed to... I guess it was like a living to work -Right, I lived abroad for many years, the culture you're in, Their problems -Right. -And what's happening at home and you're not really -Yeah, unless I'm on Twitter on like, trending topics in Ontario, -Yeah. -It's freeing isn't it? -'Cause you're not bombarded being like, you know, or, &quot;The premier did this.&quot; or whatever. -If it's really big news you'll see it in -I lived in Taiwan -Okay. -And I noticed the exact same thing, it was like a lot of those problems that I came back and my laptop was just, -It was stolen from here? -I was asking, &quot;What are the challenges?&quot;, thievery can happen obviously. -Yeah, I mean the biggest... the thing is you're not in your home country anymore. It's like... Like, I don't trust the cops but, like, I trust them even less here. If I see them... Your experience so far? -Uh, during the day I haven't noticed they'll shake you down, they'll take -They'll take your phone and money? -On the main streets here? -In certain areas. There's certain areas they'll kind of and usually if you're, like, yeah, they'll shake you down. -So in these nice... -Yeah, they know most of the money here. So it's targets for them to do. -That's a common practice? -Especially with drunk, if you're drunk, or high, or something like that. Usually... they know certain bars -Yeah. -And as you're coming out nab you outside as soon as you get out. The times that I've been pulled over I've not been doing anything. -And shaken down, like how so? -Oh, they'll just run at you and then they take They take money off of you Or I've had other friends Cops will take them to the bank machine. -Empty money out of the machine, take money out of the apartment. -In the capital? -I would think that would happen -Oh, this was like... was literally on Amsterdam in Condesa. -Okay. -He was smoking a cigarette They told him it was &quot;Not a cigarette.&quot; &quot;We're coming in your house, -Daytime, it's not gonna be a problem? -I mean who knows? -Who knows? I don't trust them enough that I wouldn't -Any other challenges here? -We've just been talking about -How great it is? -My biggest challenge honestly is that doesn't have a door man or anything. So in order for us to or get gas, or to get water, you gotta wait 'til the guy's yelling, You gotta be at home at the right time. -The bell going for the garbage can... You might have garbage if you forget to take it out for a week -What if you're at work? Like... I got a roommate here, but, like, unless he's at home we're probably not gonna get And it's not like it's Sometimes it's random. Little weird things like that -Okay, so despite those challenges, -I think so. I find it more relaxed, The people are very friendly. PETER: So foreigners, Mexicans, whomever, -Of course. Everybody's welcome. Link's down below, -Appreciate it. [dogs barking] -All right, guys. ROSS: All right. PETER: What did we learn today? We learned you can have a great life here -That's right. -We learned that -Right. -Um, but no. And I also want to drop but also you're gonna be doing videos, -That's right. Yeah, so my handle's just @RossSager. -Yeah, down below. And I'll start one -Okay, awesome. Thank you, guys, for coming along. This is just one look into Mexico City. Check out my other video with a local Mexican, But many beautiful stories All right, until the next one. upbeat jazz