The year 2000 was going to be very special, for a new millennium, a new era, a year that This was by no means a conventional New Year. It everyone was anticipating. Millions of people the 1900s staring at the clock, but not for the they were terrified, because as soon as the clock and within the blink of an eye, the year Word had been going around about this upcoming for this phenomenon: Y2K, and as the late 1990s crowded up stores across the world and lined up to survival kits, because on this date, according malfunction, prison gates would open, dams would missiles would launch by themselves. They did this What exactly caused such a strange worldwide and how it was able to cause such the level what exactly all of it means. To be clear, world but no this was something different. Y2K by conspiracy theorists, this was actually and many people at the time took note of this, and made Y2K such a crazy story. In fact, there were especially the 90s, that were responsible for the the ambiguity and mystique that was present overwhelming access of information that the world also tie into the origins of the Y2K story; so The answer to this question actually goes farther of Y2K as a legitimate issue goes back to 1958, also one of the most renowned computer scientists a time where computers were still brand new, but with time, these machines could become lives, and he recognized this. In 1958, memory money while maximizing efficiency, they removed And that's what Y2K was centered on, it all on a clock; that's where the term Y2K comes from, the time only took the last two digits of a having the "1-9" at the beginning of each set of The last two digits were more than fine. It is not what year it was anyway, it was used for logging plenty for that. There were even some computers so instead of 1978 you just had 8. I mean what would happen as we approached the 21st to be represented as 00, but how would a computer react to that? Would it read as 100, and slowly tick back up as the year's Now at face value, this probably seems There were those that saw this as just people "They're making too much out of just another day. Of course I may be wrong." implications of this could be. because as the year goes on, supplies Keep in mind, even at the time, computers don't keep records, they also use these dates and The bank is a great example of this. There were would be gone, and there's a valid reason to error. It's not like on January 1, the money would bank servers and computers would calculate the the computers were to clock back to zero, the That's what people feared, and that actually was very briefly had $6 million in his bank account, account dating to December 30, 1899. The bank was since that date. Now that was just one bank that on a global scale. People see their new account thousands of people are withdrawing huge amounts opposite problem: a bank transaction is read as it thinks it's 1900, and calculates the interest they panic sell all their assets, they take that way. This is actually very similar to what but instead it's with computer bugs. Not only had several alarms start to go off a couple the same were to happen with missiles, and create Now you probably see where the problem and banks and nuclear missiles were only part make the everyday necessities and privileges of which would lead to anarchy and before you know domino effect for the end of the world. But let's because luckily Y2K can be stopped, but it's going This is exactly what people in the late 90s many respects, they did. There's a scene from the debug effort perfectly, a film that's actually an adult comedy unintentionally serves as a "I sit in a cubicle, and I update To save space they use two digits for the date so I go through these thousands of lines of But keep in mind just how last minute all of this warning proposed by Bemer. Both due to distance 2000 was still 42 years away, we had some time to it off and procrastinating on fixing the problem, presenting itself as more of a bigger threat every now, the old computers would have been upgraded except in many cases, that was not true. Lots all this effort and money into upgrading their As you can clearly see, there's a bit of a the future all of the computers and their software but at the same time, a lot of these companies had machines still worked. People just didn't know continuously advancing at an unprecedented public's perception of Y2K as well. People to the point where change became almost is about to end the world? Might as well prepare just how much technology changed during the 20th Hubble Space Telescope in one lifetime. Jeanne a teenager and was almost in her 40s when the Navigator and see Jerry Maguire in theaters. and that can be intimidating. was still a new concept, meaning that a lot of really care to understand it. The general public technical details behind the Y2K bug. They were and reading the paper and reading on the internet the key component which really brought the Y2K you had the rise of fake news. This is not to say because it wasn't, but it was embellished. on updating software to be Y2K-Proof. The Y2K remediation, whereas Italy spent very little, level of Y2K problems. But this doesn't take into and business testing, which could have been in the caused some significant problems if not catered But this didn't stop the news from telling people and that a worldwide famine would occur. The 90s were essentially a transitioning you hear on the news because its all you have, and when televison was still new, you mainly had of the camera stating the news, stating the facts, could really get was from corporate companies who you had the internet, more news, more information. An explosion of easily accessible information and through blogs, online journals, etc. With the including the reputable and maybe some of the they want, and gain popularity from it, even you now had a ton of misleading tabloids and news preying on generations of people who were still It was the perfect recipe for disaster. And to many people's surprise, on January and people, shortly after, began to take occurred. Christian Author Col Stringer put it of people's feelings during the Y2K scare never The same could be applied to the media. The United States would end up spending designed to combat any glitches related to things could have been, Y2K was not fake, it are often so unpredictable and can yield there is theoretically no way of knowing just how the United States would have been okay without but despite all the fear-mongering Y2K created, It essentially forced thousands of computers something that likely wouldn't have happened for a It not only prepared people to be more but it also taught them to consistently adapt for finally taking us to the Thank you so much for watching. please subscribe and click the notification