Presidential assassinations are, unfortunately, about as American as apple pie. Some but multiple assassination attempts, where bombs, and have dodged both deranged Today, we're taking a look at some of have survived assassinations. The assassination of Abraham Lincoln presidential assassination but thirty years before John Wilkes Booth ruined else tried to shoot his shot. It was January 30, of former South Carolina Representative Among the mourners was none other than Jackson. As Jackson exited the building, there for him. Lawrence pulled a pistol from Fortunately for Jackson, the gun failed to would-be assassin, he had made the choice to a duel thirty years prior, and was not As Lawrence produced a second pistol, ready man with his cane, shouting &quot;Let me alone! Lawrence managed to fire again, but the gun, hurried away from the scene and into a Gedney and Tennessee congressman and frontier So why didn't Lawrence's guns work correctly? and as far as anyone could tell, Jackson It turns out that both pistols were loaded without any error. In fact, when tried What were the odds of both guns misfiring The next assassination attempt on our but whether or not the assassin was remains somewhat up for debate. Charles Guiteau, a failed evangelist, insurance approached President Garfield inside the Baltimore While waiting for his train, Garfield was shot shoulder, and the second lodged itself die right away. Nor did he die later that No, Garfield would live for another 80 days. When he finally succumbed to his debate was sparked across the medical community Questions were raised about whether his doctors Three months after Garfield's death, for physician who had served as the Surgeon General criticized the president's doctors for Charles Guiteau, unsurprisingly, I shot the President, but Guiteau is, of course, not the most but there is still debate to this survived had his doctors taken more Have you ever heard the phrase &quot;the Well how about, &quot;the speech On October 14, 1912, Theodore Roosevelt entered en route to give a speech. He stood up when a shot rang out from a Colt revolver five shooter was quickly stopped, and Roosevelt asked he did. When the man didn't answer, Roosevelt Roosevelt reached into his overcoat, and felt He refused to go to the hospital, demanding to the words,, "Friends, I shall ask you to be as understand that I have just been shot." He opened But he promised the gasping crowd that he would moose.&quot; And he was right. A later examination his right rib, on an upward path towards never reached the vital organ, its path slowed case in his pocket, and the thick pages Roosevelt ended up surviving the attempt on his wordy speech. He would not be the only Roosevelt It was February 15, 1933 in sunny Miami, Florida, a speech in Bayfront Park from the back seat of identified as Giuseppe Zangara shouted &quot;Too many He managed to fire off six rounds before he the crowd. The men were about to dispense a bit of handle the matter. It was the quick intervention and perhaps FDR's intervention in the beating So what was Zangara's motive? &quot;I don't hate Mr. Roosevelt personally, rich.&quot; He also blamed his stomach pain to make even with the capitalists by kill Though FDR survived the attempt, Chicago Mayor a stray bullet and before being rushed to the it was me instead of you." Sadly he wouldn't with the last name Roosevelt, and ended up Sometimes luck saves a President's life, sometimes it's quick thinking on the part of and sometimes it's just plain old poor planning During the Autumn of 1950, President Harry Truman on Pennsylvania Avenue while the White House was Truman and his wife suddenly heard gunshots coming and Oscar Collazo had walked up to the front door at the house acted quickly, and stopped the But later police interviews with Collazo from the beginning. The would-be assassins had been certain whether or not Truman would be in the Richard Pavlick, a 73-year-old set his sights on Kennedy and put together blasting caps, and wire, and began to case Hyannis port, then moved to Georgetown, and attach the explosives to himself, get close However, Pavlick was thwarted by an inability to assassination plot in a letter that he wrote, While the Secret Service searched for him, Pavlick was arrested in Palm Beach for driving on the his car during his arrest. They found the dynamite up before he could see his plan through. As for bought him the White House. I wanted to teach the This wasn't the only time a president faced another controversial president, had his Nixon's presidency is infamously linked with a new suffix used to refer to other scandals. easy way to indicate that something was So, it comes as no surprise that someone out but one man took it way too far. Samuel Byck depression after his wife divorced him, and He first caught the attention of the Secret but in 1974 he graduated from threats to action. On the morning of Friday, February 22, 1974, Byck Airport with the intention of hijacking a plane was inside. He shot and killed Maryland Aviation then stormed onto Delta Airlines Flight Reese Loftin and Fred Jones, but told him that they could not take While Byck was closing the doors, the pilots for help. But when Byck got back, and he shot them both. Then, with no one left passenger and ordered her to pilot the craft a police officer fired four shots through But before the police could get inside Byck's assassination plot, which he was a failure. But even though Nixon was safe was killed during the attempted hijacking. A 1987 remarked on the event, &quot;though Byck lacked the had provided a chilling reminder of the potential relaxed security system, his suicidal rampage But not all would-be presidential Some would have connections President Gerald Ford faced two assassins for the when he survived two separate assassination September 5, 1975, while Ford was in Sacramento way from his hotel room to his meeting, While he was stopped, a young woman in a red by the Secret Service. She attempted yet another president saved by a lucky break, name was Lynette &quot;Squeaky&quot; Fromme, and she You might have heard of them...the Manson family? She was planning to assassinate Ford in an attempt to impress Manson and attract The next attempt, just over two weeks later, saw where he was scheduled to speak. As he left another woman approached him. Her gun and she managed to fire a shot. However, her aim and she missed, hitting the She prepared to fire a second shot, but a He grabbed her hand, throwing her aim off and instead. The civilian, thankfully, survived, Moore's motive for attempting to driven by her radical political beliefs and who had been involved with various leftist groups became increasingly disillusioned with the believed that by killing President After her arrest, Moore expressed regret for in her beliefs and understanding of the It can be a bit of a fool's errand of attempted assassins though. Some of them sure, but just as many of them are acting out of or a chronic stomach ache. Then there's John because he hoped it might impress Jodie Silence of the Lambs, and many other iconic films. it didn't impress her. Now let's On March 30, 1981, President Ronald Reagan D.C. after giving a speech, when John at the President and his security team. One of hitting him under the left armpit and a Secret Service Agent, and a In all the chaos, Reagan's injuries were not up blood. He was rushed to the hospital, and Reagan cracked a joke to his wife Nancy I forgot to duck.&quot; The doctors removed the the President's heart. If the bullet or the surgeons had not acted quickly While Regan's would-be assassin there was a much more concerted effort to take Twelve years later, on the night of April people who had hidden explosives in a Toyota President George H.W. Bush when he arrived in between the explosives used and Iraqi forces, and who had won the presidency from Bush the on Iraq in June of the same year. Years later, with a grenade during a visit to Tblisi, the but the Secret Service treated the incident On the night of November 11, 2011, gunshots it was uncertain whether these gunshots or to President Obama, but then a outer glass and the bulletproof layer Notably, this is part of the area where President Obama and the First Lady were not in was identified as Oscar Ramiro Ortega-Hernandez, rounds during his shooting. He was arrested five he was determined to have acted out of be the &quot;devil&quot; and the &quot;Antichrist.&quot; Though still treated as an assassination attempt, Some would-be assassins prefer to attempt home.&quot; In April, 2013, a letter laced with deadly another attempt was made in June, 2013, Richardson. But this would not be the only In October, 2018, a series of pipe bombs were mailed to several leaders within the Democratic of the targets were not politicians at all, actually injured by these pipe bombs, but sixteen to Cesar Sayoc, who pled guilty to 65 felony And if you think political violence recent events would have proven to On July 13, 2024, Former President Donald Butler, Pennsylvania, when a shooter Trump was struck in the ear, while one person in Secret service agents were able to kill the as other agents threw themselves in front of any additional fire. If Trump's head had been the bullet likely would have done a lot more his head turned, and the shooter missed, The secret service were able to take down the but it could have very easily gone a the previous assassination attempts, it's often Now go check out Insane Ways 3 Assassination Attempts or