Brazil and its forests. Brazil and its stories. "Yet between them is a barrier This is a Quranic miracle. A country with an area Imagine, this is the lungs of the earth, the Amazon! The rainforests of Brazil, and their amazing mysteries. Brazil! We are in the Amazon, Today we are in the real Amazon, the Brazilian Amazon, where 60% of the total area The Brazilian Amazon, is where you see the scientific miracles The Amazon accounts for half The lung through which people breathe The longest river in the world the Amazon River, which originates and ends at this estuary here, in the Atlantic Ocean, It has water swamps that produce a fruit that does not grow and its name is acai. The color is fantastic, very saturated. Back to Brazil. Thank you, Turkish Airlines. From the city of Sao Paulo, we set out to the heart of the Amazon, This wondrous city, which is the capital makes you feel like you have entered Two million people live which has strange We start with fruits. Okay, guys, we're in the Amazon. The moment you enter the Amazon, that you will not see anywhere else. You will see this fruit You open it like this Now we're going to try Mari Mari. Look at how the Mari Mari looks like. It tastes like almonds with honey. You open it like this. it's like white gold. This one is very tasty. Although they are all similar each one has a different taste. This fruit is the one most loved I've eaten it before in Peru Any fruit you have at home Look, this is another exotic fruit. It tastes like meat! Maybe they make vegetarian meat A fruit that tastes like meat! Okay, this is Cocoa. Cocoa. Chocolate is made of these, guys. Hot chocolate. This fruit looks very strange. Don't be fooled by its exterior, Wow, it tastes like a mixture What a variety of flavors, new flavors! Like a rock, I'm holding a rock! Slightly sour. Very exotic! This is what the people of the Amazon do, The fruit we will eat now and is sold as medicine. I'm in an open pharmacy This fruit looks like medicine. Look at how it looks like! It's not tasty, it tastes like medicine. The time has come for us and eat with them from their food. The indigenous people We are going to visit the tribes now. We will take the boat Tribesmen came to welcome us. These are the Amazon's tribes, the indigenous people, and they live They've been eating things since many years ago, They're going to eat ants, They serve it with rice and then eat it. In our area, when ants come close They will get the ants out of the burrow This is the ants dish. It looks like a raisin, you might think it's a raisin In the past, they did not have enough food It looks like a red raisin. Would you guys try ants? It tastes like a lemon peel. This is the Amazon, They cooked the turtle and ate it! And ants too. That's the only familiar thing This is their everyday food, they didn't eat this because we came here Fish, ants, and turtles. How different they are from us! Amazon is a world in itself. "Yet between them is a barrier 4 kms within the middle of the Amazon. This is one river, this is another river. Glory be to God. This is a scientific Here it is before us to prove Glory be to God. Look, there is a wall These are all tributaries The Amazon is famous This is the piranha fish, and although it is small, it is deadly. One of the fiercest fish in the world. Its teeth are sharp, razor-like, and you'll lose a finger The most dangerous fish ever. We went to catch it with Pedro. Amazon fish has been Pedro's livelihood Look how many fishes, this is his catch for today. Piranha is the fiercest If it bites you, and it is very common here in the Amazon. It lives only in the rivers Look at the net, right here We've entered and now we're going deeper. He laid a net 2 km long, and it caught all kinds of fish, Look at how long the net is! The piranha fish is so powerful, He doesn't have a box, so we'll have a lot of fish alive here. We found a fish one fish preys on another fish. The piranha is harmful to the other fish, instead of us catching the edible fish, The piranha is not edible but it's still here We've found one! This is the most dangerous fish, guys, There are larger ones, It pierced it! It's small but mean. We caught fish together, This is Pedro, Life is strange! They don't have modern life's headaches. He earns $700 a month selling fish. He has two daughters. From the city of Manaus... we went to a second city Now we are off to Belem, the largest acai exporter in the world! But what is acai? Everywhere in this city, the whole city is filled and all kinds of seafood and meat It is found in the swamps Even on T-shirts. A fruit that is now trendy Its name is acai. 95% of the world's acai is produced right here in this city. At 3 a.m. the trade begins. Okay, guys, good morning, we're currently in the largest acai market All these boats come here Imagine the amount of acai! These are fresh acai fruits. Oh, my God, they bring in loads and the boats line up here at 3 a.m. This is fish with acai on the side. Look at how beautiful the color is! Finally, I am trying acai. It tastes so strong, it's the taste of real acai, fresh, The bottom of this entire boat Look at the acai here! It is known as a healthy food people who go to the gym and take care Fills 6 liters of bowls of acai! In our countries, This entire basket costs $15 Now he's checking the quality. Do you see how he puts He also tastes them. The buyer is sitting here drinking coffee He will buy 200 baskets. From there we went to one of the islands Do you hear that sound? It's 6 a.m. now, the sun hasn't risen yet. This island that's behind us, gets its name the Parrot Island. It is impressive how they all found They occupied it, Imagine sleeping on this island, While we passed that place, the sun rose. Deep in the forests and swamps. Is the city of Belem visible from here? This island is covered in acai trees, the parrots come here to eat the acai They come from Mexico, and then they fly back to Mexico. We reached the island and we met people who specialized in planting this tree all over the place. This is the parrot that was flying We came to this island The Parrot Island. This old man is 80 years old and married to 3 women. He says the reason behind his energy acai every day, cashews, and fish. He's going to climb up now in a not-so-modern way to pluck the acai. He just picked it from the tree. He is a legend, like a movie character, Acai, with the legend. This is what gives him energy every day. If you eat a bowl of acai every morning, you should know now He is now filtering the acai berries, look at how the process is done, He poured hot water on it and then put it and have only the juice left, and then it thickens This is the acai drink. You feel like you are drinking The juice tastes like berries We had to go to the fish market, to buy fish and eat it with the acai. We are in one of the largest fish markets right here in the heart of the Amazon. It's a normal day here Everyone is here for the fresh fish. Eating acai with seafood a city different from every other city We're at the fish market now, and we're going to buy crab Crab with acai. I'm obsessed with this place, The Amazon has a huge biodiversity Here in the city of Belem, there are 400 billion trees It contains many medicinal plants, God gave it to us as a gift! Hello. Hello! Do you see all these things around me? after the acai juice has been extracted. This isn't a blueberry, it's a different fruit The color is fantastic, very saturated. Here's the crab, guys. Look at that crab, guys. Weird combination. I have never been this excited It's tastier without adding sugar. Now with shrimps. In our world we order french fries but not here, here you get acai. We have a surprise for you so don't forget to subscribe