(unnerving music) - [Reporter] On April one boy, 15 years old, shot and killed a 17 year - [Reporter] WXLT TV, Channel (intense synth music) - [Man] Preview Guide. - [Nexpo] Lost media is a topic that I have been enamored by for years, yet have surprisingly The thought of disturbing and VHS footage that have been and the lengths that people So much dark and disturbing content has existed even before the internet. And the aim of this series their search, and their stories. Because, as it turns out, some of the Darkest Lost Media out there seems to have always existed... Among us. (dramatic synth music) (low rumbling) (beeping) (calming music) - [Presenter] The of the Christian Television Network. (catchy groovy music) Joy to the world All the boys and girls Joy Junction is the place to be Joy for you and me - [Presenter] Come and of fun and games at Joy Junction. Now here's Sheriff Don! (people clapping) - Hi, how you doin'? Good to see you. (tense music) - [Nexpo] 1980. A show is broadcasting on the named Joy Junction. It's textbook public access TV, set at the eponymous village and hosted by the town sheriff. Throughout the show's lifespan, the town residents would join in for educational bits about the Bible, and kids were encouraged to It seemed to have been as it was on air for a few years. Bizarrely, nearly every record and archive of this show ever existing have been wiped though, merely leaving us with a handful of surviving re-uploads on YouTube. This has, admittedly, made it difficult to find any further aside from what we can distill But that's okay, 'cause we're here anyway. - [Ron] Hi, everybody, what's happenin'? - [Don] Hey, Ron! Good to see ya! - Oh, no, I've been waiting and waiting, and waiting on you. Oh, I'm sorry, I got tied up, Marty. But traffic was heavy, You know how it is when... - [Nexpo] One of the show's cast members was a ventriloquist by the name of Ron, and he was present in joined by his doll Marty. - Never going to come back. Well, I did come back, didn't I? Yeah. I told you I would come back, didn't I? Yeah. - [Nexpo] Typically, they'd about whatever the topic of the day was, and it, at least in appeared to serve as a bridge between two segments of the show. Ron's full name was Ronald Brown, and in the years following he'd launch his own puppeteering called Puppets Plus. On his website at puppetsplus.com, we can observe a myriad of their clients, along with the age groups that Ages two to five, and six to eleven. Now, at first glance, this seems par for the Children's entertainment was his forte. However, it's when we back up and take a look at Ronald as a person when things begin to sour. You see, throughout the years, Ronald had a strange For instance, in 1998, he was pulled over for a traffic violation and was found to be in His excuse was that he and he was eventually let off. Other complaints came throughout the 2000s about him giving rides to Unfortunately, police because there wasn't any It was incredibly strange, to warrant any sort of arrest. Where things really get nutty though, is when we jump to the early 2010s, in which Brown would find himself caught in a web of controversy. (message beeps) (unnerving music) (keyboard clacks) In May of 2012, a man named Michael Arnett was arrested after a... Sting operation. He was charged with the production of... And upon searching his home and computer, they would find chat between he and a person named uelime. As it turned out, Arnett and distribute them to from the usernames and calfkeeper2. You'll notice that uelime was They expressed interest in cannibalism, torture, sexual assault, and all of it was even as young as two. The catch here, though, is that uelime wasn't It was Ronald Brown. His secret online alias in about the kids he surrounded Let me remind you that this was a man whose entire career, entire life, was centered around associating with kids. Someone who was, at one point, on television in front of thousands. To say that these chat would be putting it lightly. And yes, the messages you're seeing are straight out of (message beeps) (door shuts) (melancholic music) After corresponding with Yahoo.com, authorities were able to and tie his username to a profile on a necrophilia website Ronald's profile has been lost to time. However, through his own case report, we're able find details describing it. On this site, his bio read... &quot;I love them young and dead. I enjoy them fresh, but like to see them displayed And a few snippets from his post history. &quot;I like the blonde boy. Would love to snuff him. Very hot pics. That boy looks dead, I like that one. I'd love to kill them.&quot; It's safe to say that at this point, there was more than enough And on July 19th of 2012, that notion would - Federal marshals arrest a Largo man for possessing... And conspiring to kidnap a child. They say he was a puppeteer who performed for News Channel 8's Yolanda Fernandez has been following this story for us. She's joining us live Well, Keith, 57 year old Ron Brown is here in the Pinellas Federal investigators and very graphic online (melancholic music) - [Nexpo] Brown's house was raided. And scattered across his Pictures of kids being tied up, and even some that appeared to be dead. Furthermore, agents found CDs with much of the same material, a blowup sex doll dressed in boys clothes, a journal he kept about his and even books about serial He was eventually found And was sentenced to 20 with a lifetime of supervision thereafter. Had he lived out his full sentence, he would be out sometime in 2033. However, as of August of 2020, it's reported that he is now deceased. My heart goes out to the children who had to suffer for the and all of those who associated with him. For his entire life, he was calculated, and knew what he was doing. His career, his church van all a front for some of the In hindsight, I understand records were wiped. It was a show with a good I won't deny that, however, now bears a by the devil... Hidden within them. (melancholic music) (dreamy synth music) Before we continue, just a First off, I'd like to formally announce my second channel, called (distorted jazz music) Here, I aim to bring you about smaller webseries Currently, I have an upload about a smaller creepy webseries, and I'll be dropping Five minutes from now. So if you're into that sorta thing, I welcome you with open arms. It's a big creative outlet for me, and we're gonna have some fun. If you're not, however, no sweat. We've still got the big projects on main. Second, new merch is now available at crowdmade.com/collections/Nexpo. We've got some super cool new Link in the description. Lastly, if you're interested to videos, script files, and work-in-progress cuts your support would mean the world to me over at patreon.com/Nexpo. Of course, it's never expected, as I try to keep these (distorted jazz music) (unnerving music) (water splashes) (dramatic horn music) (wondrous music) The year is 1928, and a romantic disaster film Directed by a man named Michael Curtiz, it premieres during a transitional period between silent movies and &quot;talkies&quot;, or films with actual spoken dialog. Because of this, it's mostly with long scenes being played over music, and with it comes a healthy Most of the backlash Clocking in at a whopping two hours and fifteen minutes long, with considerable portions and drawn out scenes, sitting through this movie is, to put it lightly, a considerable undertaking. Because of this, the film and the cut content is never shown again. A good portion of the cut footage came from what the movie and that's the flood scene. (film reel rolls) (dramatic music) In it, we can observe a slew of actors fighting their way out and towards the ark to stay alive. It's a grandiose set with a lot going on, and keeping in mind the time period, all of this was pulled off These people were legitimately submerged. (dramatic music) Some might consider the acting here to be pretty well done. Like I said, this scene is grand, and due to the time period, The thing is, some of these as during this scene, three actors drowned and one reportedly lost their leg. This was the result of over being dumped across the set, something that the film's extras were reportedly unaware of. It's been reported that, Michael Curtiz was warned against putting so many people in danger. However, he shrugged it off, claiming that the extras were expected to be prepared for anything. And that, quote, &quot;They're just gonna have In the original cut of the movie, it's rumored that you happen on the screen, with a much more fleshed out flood scene. However, since the revisions, that original version is It's rumored that Curtiz was in pursuit of relentless perfection. He wanted this movie to However, in this chase came a loss of life that did not need to happen, leaving Noah's Ark forever stained with an enduring legacy of tragedy. (unnerving music) Searching for a website A window to the world Take a spin, now you're You're going surfing on the internet (unnerving music) - [Nexpo] On the 2nd of July, 2014, an ad was made on Craigslist. (beeping) It came from an 18 year old and was but a simple request for cash. - [Brooke] &quot;I need $50 by 3:30 p.m. today. I can pay you back later tonight, but I need gas and some mess quick! Everyone has bronchitis at my house and I do not want to get sick! I'm 8 months pregnant and my If you could help, me and my daughter will - [Nexpo] This post remained (message beeps) At 10:08 p.m. on the night of July 12th, Slocum receives an email from a man going by &quot;I can host. What are you thinking? I'm 25.&quot; This was a reply to other, separate ads that Brooke made around in which she would solicit sex for money. According to her friends, as her then boyfriend, 25 would coerce her to do this, while accompanying her Reluctant, Slocum responds - [Brooke] &quot;Um, well, we're looking for donations if possible. Kinda in a tight spot and As far as the fun goes though, (message beeps) - [Nexpo] &quot;How does $120 sound? I can drive you over here if you need.&quot; - [Brooke] &quot;No, we can travel, When and where would you like to meet up?&quot; - [Nexpo] &quot;I like to (bleep) That okay?&quot; - [Brooke] Mm, I dunno. I don't wanna get in trouble for indecent exposure or anything... I can't go to jail - [Nexpo] &quot;It's cop free. It's a park, but behind it No cops at all.&quot; This last email arrived at Mike's Hard was keen on Needless to say, Slocum and their trip to Gezon Park (unnerving music) It's midnight. (cricket chirps) The couple arrives, with Mike Initially believing this the two approach Mike Sometime during the next few minutes, Brooke is grabbed, bound, and shoved into the trunk of Mike's car. In haste, Charles tries to resulting in a violent It's unclear how long this fight lasted. However, what is certain, Charles was violently killed. Mike drags his body near the and covers the remains with sticks. And without so much of a single witness, he jumps in his car, and and Brooke Slocum stowed behind him, drives off into the night. (unnerving music) (birds chirping) After realizing that Oppeneer's car had not moved in days, police began probing on his whereabouts. When asked, his parents His work, nothing. No one knew where he was, And so they begin searching five days after the Upon scouring the wooded they then discover a headless And it was later identified (sinister music) In the coming hours, it was realized that and his girlfriend, too, was missing. In haste, authorities obtain a search warrant for her apartment, and begin searching her laptop. On it, there were a however, one thread from Mike's Hard stood out among the rest. The Internet Crimes Against Children unit was called in for analysis on the real name behind the alias, and they found that this address which was tied to a Facebook for a man, not named Mike, but Brady. Brady Oestrike. (dramatic music) They stake out near his home while they await a search warrant. There wasn't enough evidence for an arrest warrant by this point, so that was a frustrating roadblock. The hours tick by without much happening. However, around 9 p.m. on Brady would be spotted and leaving his home. A few moments later, he's Before they could get to him though, he takes off, leading (engine revs) (radio chatter) Eventually he loses control and crashes into a cement barrier. As the officers pull up he (bleeps) himself in the head and falls forth to his death. (dramatic music) A few seconds later, police approach, and search his vehicle. In it was 31 year old Brady Oestrike, dead in the front seat. And in the trunk, stuffed was 18 year old Brooke Slocum Both of whom were deceased. Upon searching Oestrike's they discovered a swords, cages, straps, that make little to no sense at all. His toilet was inoperable, and the entire place was (dramatic music) Most interesting of all, however, was the discovery of cameras. As it turned out, he had so he could document his actions, and what you're seeing here is Oestrike as he prepares the for those agonizing five days. Now, there exists footage grueling torture of Brooke Slocum, however, you'll never see it. The police department has gone on record to say that they will never release it, however describe it as something straight out of a nightmare. During the time Slocum was captive, and even when police were she was locked in handcuffs Reportedly, Oestrike had bound her arms to the ropes hanging from the ceiling and left her dangling while he sexually before strangling her to death. All of this was captured on film. Years later, Oppeneer's head 17 miles north of Gezon Park. It's a chilling end to a and really drives home really don't truly know who it is you're meeting with on OfferUp, what have you, until you actually come face to face. What began as a simple had led to the loss of three lives, following a day's long nightmare orchestrated by a depraved man. The torture footage is, as of 2022, considered indefinite lost media that may never see the light of day. However, considering I don't think we'd really want it to. (unnerving music) (beeping) Coast is the one Coast Federal - [Woman] Gwen Armstrong - [Presenter] WXLT TV, Channel We're with you on ABC with you (unnerving music) - [Nexpo] The year is 1972, and a reporter named Christine Chubbuck eagerly lands a job at WXLT, Channel 40, in Sarasota, Florida. Initially hired as a reporter, she was reassigned to a a local affairs segment that During her time there, she'd become attracted to a fellow reporter named George Ryan, and would seek his attention and expressing a desire to hang out. When she realized that he was already romantically involved with it was detrimental to her self-image as Christine historically According to her family, she'd go on dates with various however, had trouble On top of this, by 1973, to have one of her ovaries removed, and as a result, her doctors claiming that if she within two to three years thereafter, she may never be able to. - [Presenter] The following program is brought to you in living color, on NBC. (lighthearted music) - [Presenter] Super spy Fred Flintstone is off on the trail of the a master of dis- - Tonight we begin with the death of a man armed with scissors. He was shot by police 24 times. - Do something. Get him to do Meantime, they say they're with a meeting this Friday with city and state official. - Good evening. More than 100 people were near New York's Kennedy The plane was an Eastern - [Nexpo] As 1974 approached, Chubbuck witnessed a Christine always had a desire to pursue what she believed to about issues affecting the community. However, WXLT executives stories that were &quot;juicier&quot; per se, utilizing fear and sensationalism in turn generating revenue. The news she was tasked with reporting began to shift further and further towards spectacle and shock, and she frequently rallied Resultingly, she became in a world that she was growing to hate. Her professional life, her personal life, everything around her. (ominous music) - Good evening, I'm Steve Newman, and this is Channel 40 Weather Watch. It's gonna be even cooler The reason for this, with a passage of the cold front today when we picked up some showers, skies have cleared very nicely. And as we- - [Nexpo] On the 15th of July, 1974, Christine enthusiastically Instead of opening Suncoast she claimed that there was a newscast she had to read to open it, something that hadn't been done hitherto. She takes her seat at the news desk, and for the first eight minutes, opens her segment about and a shooting that took Following this, a film was supposed to play, but had jammed, leaving a few moments of dead air. In response, Christine before taking out a and reading to the viewers the following. (unnerving music) (film reel rolls) - This weekend, being typical of the recent rash of violence, saw one man stabbed, another assaulted, and a third shot and wounded. Sarasota Police report the a man by the name of David Winn, in the parking lot of the Winn had an apparent stab according to witnesses, was inflicted by James Police charged Witworth Winn is in satisfactory condition at Sarasota Memorial Hospital. The second attempt at has involved law enforcement officers from both Sarasota and Manatee counties. Last week, teenage gunmen and after a shootout and held a family hostage by Sarasota Sheriff's Deputies. Early Sunday morning, the north of Sarasota was the site of an attempted TV-40 Newsman Bob shortly after it began, and he filed this report. Sorry. For those of you who Newswatch last night, we did have a thorough report and a commentary by Bob Peterson, but unfortunately we had and cannot bring it to you now. However, watch Newswatch tonight at 5:30 and we'll have that story for you then. As of this morning, Foster, Race Foster who was shot in that incident, is in satisfactory condition at Sarasota Memorial Hospital. In keeping with the WXLT practice of presenting the most of local blood and guts news, TV-40 presents what is believed In living color, exclusive coverage of an attempted suici... - [Nexpo] At this moment, Christine drew a Smith and Wesson revolver that she had hidden in her bag, placed it behind her right ear, and fired, immediately falling forward onto her desk. In a frantic response, the tech directors quickly and scrambled to play a movie thereafter. (phone rings) Calls began to flood in the authenticity of what with some believing that this however it was far from it. She was rushed to Sarasota Hospital. And back at the station, the news director, Mike Simmons, had discovered two pages of The first page contained however, the second was a follow-up intended to be read by a third party. &quot;Today, Christine Chubbuck... During a live broadcast. She was rushed to where she remains in critical condition.&quot; Surprisingly, Christine's prediction turned out to be correct, not only because she was but because she remained for fourteen hours until Christine's body was cremated, and spread in the Gulf of Mexico, marking the end of a life full of despair. To those around her, and an agonizing void was left Reportedly, only one tape and was kept by Bob Nelson, After his death, his wife before handing it over As of now, this is where it lies. And for the foreseeable future, may never see the light of day. (unnerving music) (beeping) (catchy groovy music) (lighthearted music) - [Presenter] We'll return (lighthearted music) - [Nexpo] To preface this last entry, I'd like to state from the outset that the following could The answer could be completely mundane. However, the footage in this section has personally stood out to me because of how bizarrely and how little info there is about it. I was gonna put it in the however, I think it fits better here. Let us begin. It's the 1980s. (sinister music) Beetlejuice makes its debut. Journey, Survivor, Guns N' Roses, and our favorite Rick And over on a standup comedy show named An Evening at the Improv, a child actor turned is world premiering his latest track, Something In Your Eyes. - Woo! Okay, ladies and gentlemen. I'm gonna start the show off tonight a bit differently than usual. What I'm gonna do is my song that I just finished with Michael Damian for my new movie, Dream a Little Dream with Jason Robards, it's called Something In Your Eyes, I'm gonna do it right now. (audience cheers) (&quot;Something In Your Oh - [Nexpo] As we can see, he had a mixed reaction from the audience. Clearly lip syncing and taking inspiration he employs dance moves in a musical style that attempts to emulate them. Upon looking through comments it's clear that history hasn't exactly been kind to Feldman, but that's beside the point. The reason I bring this is because towards the song's end, Feldman's producer makes an to something that is very out of place for a video like this. Have a look. You shouldn't of let it go You should've held on Stop your running away (unnerving music) - [Nexpo] What is this? And why is it here? Nowhere in the song does about a woman being bound to a pool table. And after performing a cursory scan of his other music videos, cutaways like this never happen again. This seems eerily out of place, and discussion about this is painstakingly few and far between. The only mentions I could find about it were from Reddit and a however none of them and their sources are With that being said, let's so we can break it down ourselves. (ominous music) As we can see, the video of this woman was Unlike the other cutaways this one has a different border, it's in black and white, and seems to be slightly lower In the footage, we have a tied up on each corner of the pool table, is in what appears to be a small room with a swinging light above her, and seems to be moving To me, this footage could Either, it's a scene a cut of a (bleep) film, or it could be from a Personally, I believe given how obvious this cutaway is on something that's been seen by hundreds, if not thousands of people. If this were truly as it would be a pretty Regardless, this cutaway is I have ever seen, and I'm still struggling as to why it's there in the first place. I'm curious if you know If you've seen it before, if you've heard about it, anything. This is a weird little mystery, and this is where I'm Who is the woman on the table? (dreamy synth music) Even apart from the So many pieces of media have been forgotten and lost to time, and in this series, I aim to document and Thank you so much for joining of The Darkest Lost Media. I truly appreciate each for taking the time out of and I truly apologize for I had to completely rework a section due to copyright issues, so it set me back pretty badly. Nonetheless, I really I made this series with the goal of it standing toe to toe with Disturbing Things in terms of quality, and I'm thrilled to keep this That said, if you have for future installments for this series and even Disturbing Things feel free to shoot me an email at DTFAIsubmissions@gmail.com. Thank you, thank you, thank I'll see you in the next one. I love you all, and good night. (dreamy synth music) - Security tells me they do not expect a third raid of Ronald at least not any time soon. At this hour, bags of possible new clues seized late last night are headed for a crime lab. Agents can't tell us The 57 year old puppeteer is accused of crimes against children. Authorities say Brown had pictures of boys with their hands and feet bound. Brown's already appeared in federal court, where detectives say he admitted to chatting with another man online about cooking children We spoke with some of... (dreamy synth music) (mysterious music)