Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, we are going to learn about 12 odd Now, let's begin Highly intelligent people may enjoy the pursuit of relentlessly curious, which motivates them to and demand the impossible. It's common for chasing something they know they cannot have. and social lives. If you are a highly intelligent pursue unavailable people, and ask for In other words, intelligent people may or understand. They ignore all the great even if those things may lead to health, self-destructive, but many of the smartest people 2. Mindless Creativity have a lot on their minds. But those thoughts practical, or easy to understand. That's brains busy with mindless creative habits Intelligent people frequently channel their drawing whatever is on their minds. Whether distracts your consciousness and unlocks the In other words, when you doodle, you Your conscious mind is focused on this simple passively mulls over your problems. people, even though most people don't realize Not only is doodling a fun creative outlet, but people consistently use to their advantage. For highly intelligent people, there The smartest people will overexert and overinvest go of problems they cannot solve. When a they will push and push until they find an answer. personality trait. It's one of the many reasons But it also motivates unhealthy lifestyle choices enough for regular people, but for the smartest 4. Disorganized Routines Keeping a clean and tidy space is proven So, why do the most intelligent people Some of the smartest individuals Their desks, offices, and studios are littered But, as strange as it sounds, your messy habits Being messy doesn't make you smarter, but Studies have shown that messy people in their disorganized spaces. people to consider organization a low clean up your messes because your brain is That doesn't mean you, or anyone else, should But if you're messier than most, it may 5. Staring into Space space for minutes or even hours at a time? This is Many of the smartest people get lost in During these quiet periods, they plan, create, their experiences. On the surface, it may look a highly intelligent person, staring into space 6. Freezing Showers kick off their mornings, but the most intelligent steaming hot water, some of the smartest people Turns out, cold water gives your brain a huge When that cold water hits your skin, it shocks you it make you more alert, but it can also increase of the smartest people, there's no better way to 7. Lively Debates because they're naturally combative, but because It's common for intelligent people to argue it's more valuable to know both If you're a highly intelligent person, and prod people for answers in order a subject. Unlike most people, you don't view treat an argument or debate as an opportunity to 8. Sedentary Habits intelligence with productive routines and active can be very sedentary. You may be aware of your tearing themselves away from your desk. You intellectual projects, and most of those projects While you may be more productive than most, spend most of their time sitting. After all, most If those are the things you find fulfilling, 9. Unrealistic Preparation for everything they do. They sit back, assess plan that will help them achieve their goals. new hobby, like dancing. Some people may jump watching. They don't care how badly they Intelligent people are unwilling to take the will watch from the crowd, collecting information, intelligent people aren't satisfied with anything. In other words, they consistently even if they're trying something new. relationship, intelligent people rarely take many of the smartest people never take risks. capable, and high performing, but They want to be 100% prepared for everything, 10. Creating Problems but they have a strange habit of tackling problems to think of reasons not to do something. If an they may create one out of thin air, Some of the smartest people never make problems that don't need to be solved. That's the If you want to be distracted by something, no one 11. Repetitive Failures learn early in life that they can solve problems thinking their way out of every situation. even when everyone else struggles or fails. into problems too challenging for their brains to a strange habit of doing the same things over They'll stick to what they're good at, trust only to fall flat on their face. failing in an almost idiotic way. Why? Many smart people don't know how to ask they've always found success all on their own. no matter how many times you've failed. But you you'll never overcome the greatest problems in 12. Solitary Conversations muttering under your breath? Highly intelligent It may even be something you're embarrassed to Talking to yourself is a common sign of an active to channel complex thoughts. They talk softly happening around them, because their brains stimulating to engage with their own brains, even If you're a highly intelligent You may talk to yourself more than the average reasons you are smarter than most. and be sure to subscribe, because