- I mean, the software is impressive, but I'm reading this email and I'm like, seriously? That's the best answer you have? Agh! Hey folks, thanks for joining me here at All Things Secured, I'm Josh, and today we're gonna be walking through my review of Surfshark, a relatively new but increasingly popular virtual private network or VPN. I'm gonna start by giving you a look at the desktop software, followed by the apps that And then we're gonna compared on the market and see what And then I'm gonna end this review with the one complaint that Use the time markers you see here to jump to a specific part of this review. Let's go ahead and dive in. Okay, I've got my laptop Let's look at what the As you can see here, they've got a basic, very similar setup to a You've got the Quick Connect, which allows you to just connect directly to whatever the fastest VPN. What I really like about this You've got a lot of VPNs that give you both physical that you can choose from around the world, but not all of them tell you which ones are physical and virtual, and that's one thing I They have servers that for peer to peer. And then this is really cool as well. They have Multihop. If you want an added layer of security, you can go through two Now, granted, it's gonna but they offer a lot of different options for this Multihop. Again, not something I see very often with a lot of different VPN softwares. So, here you can choose the nearest country, obviously they've got Let's look, if I were you can see that the connection once I am connected, it's connecting me to a server here in Thailand. You can see I have the option to turn on or off a kill switch, and a kill switch is that allows that if the software your entire internet so that way you're never across the internet. Now, for some people for a lot of people it doesn't matter, so you can turn that on or off. Let's look at their settings right here. You can specify based on network what you wanna do when you get into, once you're connecting to that network, should you automatically or should you terminate the connection. In general, we can connect when we first open up. We can unquit, ask, or stay and of course the kill switch. Different features you can enable, the clean web, which we'll You can change your And then the advanced features, there's really not much on the iOS, it's slightly different but not that much more different. So, that's what you get Next, I wanna pull up my phone and show you what the app looks like. Now, for the sake of this exercise, I'm gonna show you the since it has a bigger screen even though the apps look between the two devices. You can see the home screen to what you saw on the desktop. If I Quick Connect here, it's gonna connect to the which again is here in Thailand. I'm gonna go ahead and disconnect and show you the different locations. I can search on the top, I can choose the fastest or I can scroll through the where there are servers. Now, on the right side you see here I can actually choose a favorite server. I can star those servers here, or if you can see this and that shows the server load, which, if it's a heavy load, that means there's a lot and it's likely gonna be a lot slower. For static, you can choose servers that don't change their IP address, no matter how many times you And then, of course, we have Multihop, which is the same feature that allows you to connect even though it might slow down Here on the features you can and then you've got hack which I'll discuss here in a moment. And then finally in our settings, we can turn on the kill switch, which I told you about earlier, you can connect differently based on what wifi network you're on. And then you do have a choice of protocol in the iOS version, which is what I'm showing you, which we didn't have in the Mac version. They just had the IKEv2 connection. For both Android and Windows, you will have these options for yourself, both on the mobile and the desktop. And finally, we have no borders, which is a feature, they don't really go into but to the best of my understanding, it helps you connect in countries where there's high censorship like China, Saudi Arabia, Russia, and others. You can connect and change and you help here from the mobile app. And that's it. It's a very simple, but very elegant app. So, overall Surfshark a great user experience. But how did they compare with other VPNs? When I'm looking at a VPN, there are certain core features that I think all of them should have, so I'm not gonna applaud Surfshark for having the features I'm (crowd applauding) But it is good to know These features include a that's standard, live chat support, thousands of servers spread that's great, options for a VPN kill switch, as well as two factor although, I must say, it's and every VPN claims so take that with a grain of salt, and also standalone apps including Windows, Android, So, these are the standard features, pretty much every VPN has them. So, what does Surfshark We've already seen a few of them as we've walked through but let's run through the list again. They offer double hop VPN, which is something that I haven't seen on many other VPN softwares. They offer Smart DNS, which isn't something but it is useful in sometimes. They offer unlimited and this is a big one. Most softwares, most VPN softwares only give you five or six VPN connections. Surfshark gives you unlimited connections. They have a split tunneling feature, which they call Whitelister. It's not available on Mac or iOS, but you can find it on And this feature allows you to choose specific apps or websites to tunnel through the VPN, while the rest of your internet over the world wide web. They offered GPS override, which unfortunately, but it's something It allows you to spoof your for those apps or websites that use the GPS feature to In addition to these VPN features, Surfshark also offers a that are worth noting here, for example, you can use which is something I've but this allows you to get some good ad blocking for when you're surfing around the web. They offer blind search, which is an interesting to the incognito mode in your browser, and that it allows you without that search being or without it being connected And finally, they offer hack lock, a tool that allows you to monitor your email or your passwords to make sure they Now, honestly, even if it is a great tool, that's not something I would use. I would rather take and like Dashlane or 1Password I think they do a little bit better job. Plus, I don't like giving over to one specific company. Overall, I've really I love the fact that it feels like they've from the different VPN and combined it into one software package while keeping the price But wait, I do have one that I have to share with you. I've even brought it up with and their answer just wasn't Let me show you what I mean. If we navigate to the Surfshark website and we look for that about page, you're gonna find that it, wait a second. It doesn't exist. Who runs Surfshark anyway? As far as I was able they were established in 2018, and they're based in the which is common among VPNs because the government has So, I emailed their support staff and asked for a few more details, and this is the reply they gave me. &quot;Surfshark Limited is owned &quot;who choose to exercise &quot;and remain undisclosed. &quot;It's for their protection and privacy,&quot; blah blah blah blah. I mean, don't get me wrong, this is quite common for VPNs who don't like giving out any information about who owns or runs the company, but that doesn't mean a free pass for it. You know, it's a reasonable fear that state actors might especially since in 2019, it was found out that hundreds of VPNs were in fact owned by China. So, who runs Surfshark anyway? Because I can't tell you that, I also have to hesitate in for Surfshark. It's a great piece of software Heck, I use Surfshark on but because they don't give about the company and who's I'm just slightly worried. I hope this Surfshark review If so, give this video a thumbs up, or you can use my affiliate which is one other way that you can support this YouTube channel and everything that I do. Thanks for your time. Remember, don't wait until it's too late. Take some time, secure yourself online.