Professor Paul Bloom: first guest lecturer for this course, Dean Peter Salovey. colleague. here knows of him through his I'll just, in this context of mention two other things about One is prior to being dean and he's an active scientist and in a social psychologist actively psychology, the proper use of health messages, developer of the idea of an idea he's done a huge amount Secondly, Peter is or was an teacher at Yale College. the largest course ever in Yale Psychology in Law which broke And before that, and after that, to Psychology teacher. reason for why he was so on the topic of love. [applause] Thanks very much. Okay. Professor Bloom. and lecture to you today on love. human emotion. It's not one that I study lab, and--but it is fun to talk And it is a topic that lends psychological phenomena. come in and guest lecture. miss since serving as dean is Psychology 110. I do miss teaching Introductory exposing people to ideas that Well, I suspect some of the not heard before and for a A couple of the things you'll experiments I'll talk about experiments that can be done They're not considered were done in the '50s and ethical standards were different We just can't give you the same college students that we'll talk had. is that there is a certain quality to much of the social romantic love. experiments. men and usually the targets are I'm not endorsing this as the It just happens to be the way so I mention this caution right We'll have to think about--One about is do you think these kinds of dyadic relationships. think you can ask throughout Okay. And to start things off I think definition. is but then most of the about are really focused more on each other of romantic interest love relationship. definition of love. definition from a former who is now the dean at Tufts faculty at Yale for nearly And he has a theory of love three components: passion, and commitment, decision commitment. straightforward. love if you don't have all three Intimacy is the feeling of someone, of bonding. you could think of intimacy as you share information with this anybody else. That's really what intimacy is, sharing information that isn't other people. Passion is what you think it is. the drive that leads to romance. attraction or sex. is a required component of a It is not, however, a shower in Calhoun College. The third element of love in calls decision or commitment, love relationship, such, that relationship at least for Sternberg would argue it's not and if you don't have some relationship. these, intimacy, in Sternberg's theory you have Now what's interesting about if you only have one out of What do you have and how is it different two out of three? about this kind of theorizing is different permutations that when look at them carefully can be So what I've done is I've taken love, intimacy, and I've listed out the one would have if you had zero, three elements. that Sternberg uses in his These are really from him. obvious. if you don't have passion, you don't have love. That's the technical term. essentially what he's saying is the person sitting next to you, next to a random person that you is probably non-love. we could talk about it at the when I get to it in a moment. Let's add intimacy. a feeling of closeness, bonding. someone but we don't have no sexual arousal, the relationship. Sternberg calls it liking. happening in most typical friendship but friendships of a You feel close, with that person that you don't people, attracted and there's no maintaining this for a long Now, what if you're not but you're passionate; This is what Sternberg would And that term probably works and this is love at first &quot;I don't know you, because I don't know you, this as anything, In fact, I'm not thinking about I'm thinking about right now Right. what Sternberg means by The third kind of one-element intimacy, right, no closeness, attraction, no sexual arousal, we are going to maintain this we are committed to it for all Sternberg calls that &quot;empty Empty love is kind of It's often the final stage of have gone bad. with each other anymore so We don't feel physically there's no passion, for the kids, Or we've got to stay together better stay together because disaster if we don't&quot; or all of and passion that people might That's what Sternberg calls Now what's interesting is in arranged this is often the first These two people who have maybe who have never shared secrets who have never--don't know if each other or on their wedding committed legally and sometimes Right? that moment nothing else might What's interesting of course is seem to have any greater chance who marry for love. there's a big problem in relationships. Anybody. the statement I just made that just as likely to survive as Yes. [inaudible] Yeah. they're more likely to occur in They make it very costly, to divorce, so then they stay reasons, not always such good All right. song &quot;Two Out of Three Ain't Was that Meat Loaf? It was Meat Loaf. Professor Bloom says it was It was Meat Loaf. &quot;there was a singer called Meat Meat Loaf sang the song &quot;Two Let's see if two out of three What if you have intimacy, passion, we feel physically we're not making any commitments Sternberg calls that &quot;romantic This is physical attraction commitment, Romeo and Juliet This is often the way &quot;We like each other, each other, time with you but I'm not making So I'm not even willing to use what it is we have.&quot; Many of you might have been in That's romance. Now, what if you have intimacy, other, but there's no particular really committed to this This is what Sternberg calls This is your best friend. intimacy, to being friends attraction is not part of the This is sort of the--maybe the some kind. What if we have passion, you,&quot; but no intimacy. that much about you, anything of me with you, maintaining this physical Well, &quot;fatuous love.&quot; It's a Hollywood romance. wedding. Vegas and you get married for a that this wasn't such a good And maybe your name is Britney [laughter] you've got the idea. &quot;We are basically committed to very hard to make those because we might not have we might not share anything we might not trust each other, to each other. if you have all three, commitment, this is &quot;consummate complete love. Okay. love and you can now, sit down tonight and make a the three elements of love and marks in the boxes and tallying And we don't want to collect We don't even want to see those Then you can ask the other compare with each other. And if you all survive this it. What doesn't kill you makes you That's the idea behind that All right. love really has been a social What makes people find each What makes them want to be What makes them physically What might lead to a commitment to make the This is just so nice. and the two of you are holding It's really-- [laughter] All three elements present, and-- [laughter] Okay. Just checking. So what's interesting about the is it has focused on seven And I've divided these into two more interesting four. big three are three variables that they almost don't need to The more interesting four are in this lecture because they're be things that you've never But let's quickly talk about The way to understand the big other things being equal.&quot; people who find themselves in other, lecture, will be more likely to form a romantic relationship. equal. lots of interesting ways. city of New York where you you can actually get a very nice live from each other in city Right? and you can use a city block blocks between people's doors. closely together are more likely relationships with each other. Right? campuses. distance between the door to other room of a student on correlation between the correlation--the likelihood of relationship with a person and door and that person's door. the more likely a romantic all other things being equal. equal is a big qualifier. But if we could statistically variable, all I'd need to do is door to everybody else's door on who's going to fall in love with Now, this idea in a way is--I Maybe it's a little There is a kind of cultural the person you don't know, love with. the case if it's the person who Right? the other big--the other two of repetition of this theme. in love with. Let's continue down. You've probably heard the together&quot; and that's true when On any dimension that these kinds of studies, they are more likely to find This could be obvious things could be things like attitudes preference for the Red Sox over Right? similarity. the more similar the more attractive. attract. together but opposites don't Now, usually at this point raises their hand and says, girlfriend and I are complete for that, And I usually look at them and [laughter] not be equal. play but, all things being contempt. Okay? We have all of these common other and then empirically, more evidence supporting them So &quot;opposites attract?&quot; &quot;Similarity breeds contempt?&quot; &quot;Birds of a feather flock Yeah, there's some evidence for Finally, familiarity. love with people in our already familiar. evening we will see a when you need them? &quot;Some enchanted evening you crowded room.&quot; What musical is that from? Very good. a crowded room. Of course it happens, somebody you already know, repetitively you suddenly find relationship forms. So the big three: people who are already familiar space. all things being equal, Okay? Those are big main effects. easy to observe in various ways By the way, the familiarity people. language that you don't speak you very quickly and I can later mix in some new ones that you've &quot;I don't know--I know you don't mean. characters but just, which ones do you like and much do you like each one?&quot; ones you saw earlier, familiarity. having seen them, generated with such quick remember even having seen you will get that familiarity Okay? The more interesting four. because they're a little bit subtle. one that is my favorite. Think about other people in Think about people who are Generally--And think about Generally, we are more competent to us. interesting. really the effect. people who are competent than incompetent but people who are people who seem competent on they're kind of threatening to They don't make us feel so good Right? diminished by comparison. kind of person we're really individual who occasionally And this is called the Pratfall competent person grows when they when they do something when they have a failure Okay? figures. as competent but who pratfall, sometimes they are even more Okay? was President. his term, despite what everyone Bill Clinton or not, Lewinsky, his popularity didn't A lot of people in the media &quot;Well, he's just--It just shows He makes mistakes like the rest pretty big mistake. And you could see this even Sometimes public figures are pratfall. the classic pratfall one to describe. So, let me tell you a little You're in this experiment. you're listening to a tape people who are described as your college to appear on a quiz The quiz show is called think is on anymore but was on And you're listening to contestants from Yale who are You have to decide how have to decide who should be And you listen to these Now what's interesting is the nearly perfect person and The nearly perfect person correctly, admitted modestly to honor society, and ran varsity track. person. only 30% of the questions only average grades, proofreader, and he tried out make it. they're keeping a lot of the case he's kind of an average nearly perfect. do you find more attractive in So, when they ask you questions the quiz show, person. like, &quot;How attractive do you Now, you're only listening to How attractive do you find this And the results are pretty The competent person is rated considerably more attractive, Okay? story though, story and it's not the end of Now, what happens is half of experiment who have listened to get to listen to one tape. the blunder condition. condition is the tape continues clattering of dishes, saying, &quot;Oh, my goodness. new suit.&quot; That's the blunder. Now you're asked, attractive?&quot; Your rating of the person grows even higher. blunders, this is the person Unfortunately, blunders, you now think is even [laughter] Right? experiments. the mediocre become even more in your regard. personal story about my coming experiment. experiments in the history of I wouldn't quite put it up You'll hear maybe later about, Milgram and maybe Asch Cave. than this, but this is right up This is a top five experiment. Elliot Aronson who has retired at the University of California The name is not one that you In any case, graduate student and I was kind of interviewing with a time named Judy Rodin. because she went on later to University of Pennsylvania and Rockefeller Foundation. and set up a meeting. persuade her in this meeting was students, to let--to be my And it's about my third or and I'm pretty nervous about And she could be intimidating student. this mug of coffee and I was trying to convince her to take and I was saying, I'll get a lot done. I can analyze data. And I'm talking about myself hands as I talk. around. conversation I demonstrated some learned in your physics class rest remaining at rest unless Well, the object at rest was pulled the coffee cup out from on her desk and began--I watched coffee just moved from my side desk. and started moving papers around look like &quot;Why don't you just So, I was trying to save the and I looked at her and I said, experiment that Elliot Aronson on attractiveness?&quot; She looked at me kind of out of said, &quot;Well, that was my [laughter] even more.&quot; And she just shook her head and Peter, Peter. if I think you're competent [laughter] introduction to Yale, [laughter] All right. Only blunder if you're you more attractive. Let's move on and I'm going to through all this because I want questions at the end of the Let's talk about physical the more interesting four. one that really bothers us. physical attractiveness accounts It seems unfair. there isn't much we can do And when we're not pictured in hurt. So, we all like to believe that And the interesting thing is if students and you say to them, characteristics are in involved in,&quot; important, sensitivity is important, a sense of humor is important, aren't important. things--Let's do it in a If you send everybody out on a after the blind date, are matched up blindly actually actually get together again, again? No. No. No. No. No. Looks. matter and unfortunately they Now, the good news in all of at physical attractiveness in what predicts a second date Obviously, what predicts a probably things less superficial things in addition to looks. a second date. year say, &quot;But it's not And it's one of those classic think is unimportant and what important. there are very interesting physical attractiveness. a computer algorithm paired It couldn't have been a very basically paired people up But the computer--but a lot of campus were--was collected--were randomly paired up and sent to And then they were tracked over And just as in the thought the University of Minnesota If the computer--If they rated the randomly assigned partner, continue the relationship. &quot;why?&quot; other experiments to try to get attractiveness that makes people And once again Elliot Aronson, experiment, the &quot;Pratfall&quot; work on attractiveness as well. which many people know as the he did the following. a graduate student who was lab--Psychologists--Social who are in the employ of the It doesn't mean that they grew or wave a certain kind of flag was &quot;stooge.&quot; &quot;We hired a stooge to act in experiment.&quot; generation of college students Moe, started to use the phrase Now, they'll usually just say, But anyway, the confederate was naturally attractive in most look either more attractive or kind of frumpy clothes, And it was the frizzy wig that experiment. experiment is she poses as a psychology who is interviewing in this experiment. she gives them her own personal personality. So, that's all it is. this woman. good or she's made to look kind they talk to her. their personality. favorable personality Half of them receive a kind of How do they respond? attractive they were delighted feedback about themselves. gave--When she was made to look unfavorable information about they were really upset about it. unattractive they didn't really she gave. it was positive or not. difference. In the condition where she was you bad feedback about yourself, condition would look for an in the future, her evaluation was wrong. So there's kind of this idea their feedback to us has more I'm not saying this is fair, I'm not endorsing it, me--empirically we can see it, attractive--the feedback from more to us. Number three of the more Gain, loss. in psychology that we are in a sensitive to change than to And you could imagine why that Change often signals danger or especially tuned-in to change, helps us pass along our genes. So we're more sensitive to How does that play out in love? very powerful to us is not just toward us, I love you, I love you, It wears out its welcome. person who was not that positive positive. regard for us is positive. Aronson calls this the &quot;Gain We are really attracted to gaining momentum over time. And even if over a period of regard is lower because they higher than someone who was it's the ones who were first capture our attention. important than just the position getting better and better. there is also a loss effect. not the people who have always The person who every time they says they hate you and gesture--after a while this Right? Ricky Skaggs sings that has the you like the person you love.&quot; the person who always was starts to fade. You can only hurt the one you Right? love because you are expecting you love. it's a blow. Right? you can love but the one who trouble showing you that they The one who didn't really love show you that they love you, influence on your behavior. The last--Oops. The last set of studies--Have Singer's &quot;Emotions&quot;? So let me describe to you this This is a phenomenon about the arousal. aroused but you're not and you have to make up an I think what I want to do--And accurate, but the ones that are where you misattribute the cause mistake and think it's love when else. experiment. for the purposes of this Pierson because I need to walk a to the Starbuck's on Chapel And I have a friend who I don't somebody who was sitting next row. go see The New Blue in concert Friday night?&quot; I would do that.&quot; takes place in the basement there - what used to little theater - and we enjoy then I say, a coffee.&quot; from Pierson College down to the over to Chapel Street, another block down to High, And she says to me, decaf because it's kind of late And I say, &quot;That's fine. She says, &quot;Yeah. espresso mocha skinny with a--&quot; What other dimensions are there? &quot;A double espresso mocha skinny [laughter] And I say, &quot;Okay. I'll have a coffee.&quot; And I go up there and I order &quot;I'll have a small coffee mocha skinny frothed&quot; except the Did the word &quot;barista&quot; exist [laughter] I don't think so. The barista uses caffeinated decaf, doesn't tell anybody, I don't see it. coffee and my double espresso except it isn't espresso. caffeinated espresso. It isn't decaffeinated. caffeinated espresso in it. and we're having this nice our beverages and it's about closing and it's time to walk And we're walking back to Starbuck's, we make a left on we're walking up to York, but my friend looks at me and &quot;Huh. What's actually happening? faster, her palms are beginning little shorter than it otherwise &quot;I don't know. And she said, way in a very long time. It couldn't be the coffee. What could this be? And she turns and she looks at and she says, What a rare mood I'm in. love.&quot; And it is almost like being in two shots of caffeinated causing a rapid heart rate, sweaty palms, doesn't realize that's what it She turns to the most social psychologists would say object in her immediate social me--and [laughter] That's the idea of something else, It's best if you don't know mistakenly attribute it, to physical attraction, passion and commitment, All right. recommend that you do this weekend, might want to try it but we can go--we can take this research on this. But before I tell you about lab about the most famous field We call this the &quot;Rickety And there is a bridge at the that crosses a river that runs rickety--There's actually two The rickety bridge is one It's hundreds of feet above the It sways in the breeze. You kind of hold on to it river. cross that river. bridge? Yes. Okay. the river. water, solid wood planks, hand railings made out of solid bridge that way. the University of British positioned, or confederate on one side of She was a woman and she met men And she would intercept them as bridge, or the low bridge, questions and conclude with, You would help me out with my little story right now.&quot; story and she would say, about this experiment, Actually, this happens when You get the phone number of the What happens? male students, they wrote these sexy stories with kind of little bit ribald And the people on the solid boring stories. rickety bridge were more likely &quot;Yeah. experiment I was in. [laughter] don't you?&quot; And the people on the low call her up. What was going on? misattributed arousal. swaying in the breeze hundreds the bridge seems unstable. Maybe you won't. your palms are sweating, You meet this person and she you're feeling all these things. attraction. study is bad science. study. you can't even call this study What's the flaw? Yes. would take the rickety bridge [inaudible] People who take the rickety people who are more looking for take the solid bridge. Another way of saying it is the subjects to the two That's no random assignment; You--By not randomly assigning you may be capturing just kind of person who, stable, safe, &quot;Huh uh. bridge. where I have to risk my life to [laughter] that that's the kind of person stranger on the telephone and to them? We're not so surprised. of course, is take it in to the systematic way with random And this is how I'll want to We have until 2:45,3:45? Great. minutes to finish up and that'll So how do you do this in the Well, you can bring people in with a confederate who--Let's one, room, and I can say to all of We'll begin the experiment in a While you're waiting please And the form includes how are to the experimenter, I can do the same thing over I can give you the form and ask think I am and I can give you crucial difference: We will begin the painful shock Please fill out these forms What happens? shock instruction are more attractive. While they're sitting there it's making their heart beat it's making their palms sweat, maybe. obvious what's doing that, arousal to &quot;I must be falling in even with that obvious a--even instruction. You can bring--Here is one of You bring people in the lab. group this time. and we say to this group of We'll begin the experiment in a You can fill out these forms in The forms ask how attracted you You're now in the experimental &quot;Please wait here. moment. out some forms but first, experiment, treadmill and run for ten So you've run on the treadmill. The people who've run on the arousal is fairly obvious, bit of aerobic exercise, more attractive. This is why the fourth floor of dangerous place [laughter] be very careful there. It's that combination of [laughter] All right. experiment and I apologize for It is a bit sexist in 2007 And we could never do this--and experiment today but let me go apologize for its--some of its In this experiment male lab and they were asked to look Playboy magazine. photographs of naked women. that amplify their heartbeat and things how attracted are they to they're looking at. many they look at. So, these slides are coming up. The headphones are amplifying are moving one after another for they're listening to their Slide one. Slide three. Slide five. And then they're asked which attractive, which one are you &quot;Oh, slide five, absolutely. marry.&quot; And what has happened is their heartbeat to infer that attractive. They're not actually listening They're listening to a tape And the experimenter is back [laughter] speeds up the tape of their and then slows it down. slide he speeds up the tape of that's the one the subject is person of their dreams, So even you can misattribute You can even misattribute phony coming from your body. being played to you randomly. Okay. cute and I think there's an And it says something, can be misled as to what things even things coming from our own But there's also some very kind of work. domestic violence. violence situations and why Why do people stay in Now the number one reason, up front, is usually alternative or people believe &quot;I can't leave because if I If I leave I will starve, starve or there'll be danger to And that keeps people trapped but--And that's number one, on? that the relationship they're in or emotionally abusive. screaming matches and it's not physical violence. when that happens and they &quot;Well, he wouldn't be yelling love me.&quot; They misattribute that, what might even be aggression to an expression of love. psychologist who told me a story nervous, although she's fine. husband&quot;--this is thirty years time. many arguments--We got into time something happened where he lot and he was yelling at me And I rolled up the window and punched out the window.&quot; out the window. And he--she said to me, loved me.&quot; I--and, all joking aside, misattributed arousal. I felt something and I assumed What she was misattributing as misattributing his aggressive She was misattributing her own as &quot;And I must love him.&quot; these kinds of experiments, because they are unusual and there is also some serious work that one might think about. possible implications as well. Let me stop there and see what have. Dean Peter Salovey: Thanks very much. Because we are on tape I'll in. Student: [inaudible] Right. experiments like the painful in advance, through a consent form or by &quot;This is an experiment will you still rate the or will you not be able to It is true. source of the arousal, effect. say to my friend, feeling that way. that way is 'cause the barista caffeinated espresso when you just love me.&quot; The person is not likely to They're more likely to think yeah. explanation here.&quot; The more salient you make the the less likely you'll get the experiments where the cause of at least to us, misattribution effect. Yes. Dean Peter Salovey: So the question is are any of particularly the big three, familiarity, the maintenance of relationships It's interesting. initial and maintenance over focuses on initial attraction, initial attraction and those relationship in part because couples over time. Heisenberg-esque problems we romantic couples over time and questions and make observations. couple naturally--this So, we really get--So, these experiments is on initial That's why I always say my the definition of terms is but the experiments really are about love. Yes. feel consummate love for more Dean Peter Salovey: Oh. love for more than one person? It's actually a question that's I didn't get into it at all in lecture--but there's an about love and many other a kind of evolutionary versus people who take what constructed perspective. incompatible but the would argue that you can feel one person or at least it would your genetic material to a generation. explanation is not a problem but where in most societies, polygamist societies, love more than one. And so you've got this tension evolutionarily wired impulses constraints that say this isn't this isn't appropriate, And my guess is the result is going to feel un-conflicted two are conflicting each other How about one more question and I'm sorry. Student: Wouldn't people who learn all these to apply them? he's making the evolutionary Wouldn't natural selection introductory psychology, lecture, listen carefully to the interesting four, them into practice? the--like we're trying to pass which is a little bit counter somehow you could design a kind of material, I can tell you this much. thousands social psychologists proud of their field, Anyway, thank you all very much. Thanks!