JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally tonight, we remember novelist Philip Roth. He died yesterday of congestive heart failure Roth was the author of more than 25 books, His work evolved through several distinct alter egos, including his best-known character, The 1969 novel &quot;Portnoy's Complaint&quot; rocketed of a teenage boy's lustful urges and ensuing Roth would later focus more deeply on Jewish setting his novels in Newark, New Jersey, During a particularly fruitful period in his The accolades and the novels came quickly, a Communist,&quot; and &quot;The Plot Against America.&quot; In a moment, William Brangham talks with a But, first, how Roth himself saw his work. Jeffrey Brown had the chance to sit down with Here are some excerpts. JEFFREY BROWN: What is it you want to do when What are you trying to do? PHILIP ROTH, Novelist: Get to work. Work. JEFFREY BROWN: Get to work? PHILIP ROTH: Get to work. Work. Without a novel, I'm empty. I'm empty and not very happy. So, when I get to work on a novel, I begin It's a long process. Usually, it takes between two and three years I don't think about the reader. I think about the book. I think about the -- I think about the sentence, the page. I go over it and over it and over it. The book begins to make its demands. The demands are intellectual, they're imaginative, JEFFREY BROWN: That's interesting, because sort of throwing out literary bombshells. I mean, you get a lot of reaction to your PHILIP ROTH: I'm a very bad judge of how people will respond to a book. And I'm always surprised by the responses JEFFREY BROWN: Many observers have noted this the last, say, 10 years or so. What happened? (LAUGHTER) PHILIP ROTH: What did I eat for breakfast, I don't know. Maybe it's a consequence of age. But I did feel energetic, and I do feel ambitious. And I did the work. JEFFREY BROWN: And what was your ambition PHILIP ROTH: To be able to write this kind To be able to broaden the subject, while, at the same time, having the subject enacted JEFFREY BROWN: And broaden the subject, what PHILIP ROTH: When I came back to live in America by being home. But, also, I realized I had in front of me was this country, that it was brand-new to it because I had been brought up here. So, being away for 10 or 12 years produced JEFFREY BROWN: And when you think about now, a worse writer? PHILIP ROTH: Oh, I like to think a better A different writer? Sure. You begin with -- or I began certainly with You're very raw when you begin. And I don't think I'm -- I think I'm only And raw -- I'm only raw from the hard work. I'm not in the raw in the way a young fellow JEFFREY BROWN: Some years ago, I know you at a time when they were a kind of moral voice What do you see as your role or as the role PHILIP ROTH: Your role is to write as well You're not advancing social causes, as far You're not addressing social problems. What you're advancing -- there's only one That's the cause of literature, which is one So, you do your bit. You do your bit for fiction, for the novel. WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Here the talk now about He's the president of Library of America, celebrates America's greatest writing. In 2005, Philip Roth became just the third in the Library. Rudin collaborated closely with Roth throughout Max Rudin, I'm sorry for the loss of your who doesn't get any more of Philip Roth's For people who are not familiar with those him so special? MAX RUDIN, President, Library of America: sheer verbal inventiveness and imaginative He is, you know, nearly unique in American tones he could write in. He was an amazing literary ventriloquist, &quot;Goodbye, Columbus,&quot; to the more -- the outrageous, to the more tempered realism of the American tone of the later books. It's amazing that one writer could do all And I think, you know, looking at his entire it makes one of the most extraordinary literary WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Just as you say, he really compressed into one. He was so funny. He could write about mortality and sadness He could write about his faith. He really could seem to do it all. Did you have a sense from working with him pots that he could dip into? MAX RUDIN: Everyone who knew him knew of his I mean, you know, he not only had it on the He had it talking in person. He was extremely funny and extremely intelligent I guess the other thing I would say about -- and &quot;Portnoy&quot; is the first great breakthrough Philip has a couple of different breakthrough really opens the floodgates for the first And this voice, you know, comes pouring out the result of hard work, of course -- and and humor on the page. And that's what makes him -- and humor -- and And I think that's another reason why people WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Does the evolution of his on it now? Because, if you do look at the younger books, and his coming to terms with his own sexuality. Then they move into a middle age phase, and deal with a man growing old and facing his MAX RUDIN: Right. WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Does that trajectory make MAX RUDIN: It does. I mean, you know, fundamentally, you know, time. He was on the side of vitality, you know, And it's a '60s theme, you know, the era where And yet he was also a ruthlessly honest observer against that liberation and vitality. And I think, as the work goes on, I mean, you know, the forces of political violence the McCarthy era in &quot;I Married a Communist,&quot; could be used as a bludgeon in &quot;Human Stain.&quot; He's one of the great ironists in our literature, impulses of liberation, and yet understands liberation, the forces of fate and history. WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right, Max Rudin, the MAX RUDIN: Thank you so much for asking me.