Somewhere on Earth is off one of the most Southern Chile is a vast territory, At the extreme tip of South America, and the still unexplored Patagonia lifts the veil Jorge Arratia knows all the secrets In this remote valley, and transport it down Philippe Reuter's childhood dream was This enthusiastic mountaineer and lives at the foot Carlos Barria is one He fishes the icy water Carlos is a seaman, but also a cattleman. His ranch is situated very close to the mythical Cape Horn. Nature is part of my life. When I fish, I'm communing with nature. It's my livelihood. The sea and the land, I live thanks to nature. Here, at the ends of the Earth, Isolation and the glacial winds Perhaps the only place left Carlos, a king crab fisherman and rancher, lives beyond the end of the Earth The mountains and the sea Carlos possesses the integrity This is a very dangerous place We don't go fishing for centolla, It gets very tricky, I know this region I've been working here over 30 years. On the Beagle Channel We're just across That's Argentina on the other side. The canal is split in two, Sailing here, where two great oceans, means taking a trip back in time. The Beagle Channel, at the tail-end of the Andes, is the last strait The waterway, discovered in 1825, gets its name Its captain, Robert FitzRoy, On one, he took aboard a young naturalist who would become one of the most famous Ever since their discovery by Magellan, have preserved traces These shores are a huge maritime cemetery. This is both the beginning one of our planet's This land of high latitudes the legendary Cape Horn, At Puerto Williams the fishermen are getting ready their main source of income. Onboard Carlos' boat, The reverse gear is broken. The only way to fix it and ship it to Punta Arenas, I've got to hurry There aren't any mechanics The nearest one is in Punta Arenas, the main port of Patagonia, The crab season starts in a week This is really rotten luck. What Carlos fails to mention on the crab season, Many men in Puerto Williams and for them, it's out of the question Carlos knows this. Not only is his fishing season imperiled, but he'll have to take a boat to Douglas, Douglas is seven hours away by boat. Life on the edge of the Earth One needs to accept them. I was 20 years old For more than 30 years, Life was hard back then. Things are a little better now. There was only the naval base That's why I came here to work. I liked the spot for its peace and quiet. So I stayed in Puerto Williams. I started a family and became a fisherman, I fell in love with this spot, Puerto Williams, is Chile's southernmost community. The village, located across is a formal naval base. Now, the town has a population half of which are military personnel. Once a week, the Yaghan Carlos may miss the beginning but he's taken care of His mechanical problems but he'll have to be patient. It will take a month The southern storms Patagonia is and the Pacific depressions encounter. Sailors call this part of the globe Sailing conditions that navigators could ever encounter. Carlos is heading for Douglas, With his crab-fishing boat out of order, a rapid boat that serves along the Beagle Channel. We're coming into Douglas Bay. I'm worried because I haven't checked He's all alone, I'm worried about his health. You never know. Douglas is an old Anglican mission, Carlos took over these lands He owns around 100 head of cattle. As soon as he sets foot on dry land, the silent caretaker of the Campo. Jose has been totally cut off You have to have someone and even more important, You have to like being alone. Out here There's no other company. You have to get used to the solitude. It's hard for those who can't live alone, [Spanish spoken audio] Here in the far south, Douglas is the only place where you can buy meat. We sell to the fishermen They come through here The boats that sail south Carlos has created a refuge a parcel of forgotten land the full measure Carlos has left his worries There will always be time Meanwhile, he can still Even though I had a problem with the motor I can still work and fish for crabs It's very early in the season. First, I just set two traps If there are, I'll set some more. These are all males. We're not allowed to keep the females. If we catch any females, I'm lucky, I got all males, They'll sell well. I really love this spot. I've always worked in fishing, but I wanted to have a place of my own. Where I could come and work a little as well. Live as I please. I'm a fisherman, but I love the land. I'm not a rancher, but I really like it. I'm still learning about ranch work. I'm still more of a fisherman There's nobody from here only passersby, like fishermen. For the moment, This place means a lot to me. Right after my wife and children, I realized that here, I'm living in the southernmost If I hadn't settled here, Philippe, an adventurous alpine guide, This is the kind of spot No limits to the forces of nature, the adventures you can experience and no limits to the distances. They are vast. There are no limits to anything here. This is a practically unexplored territory with thousands of places A vestige of long-gone ice ages, the valley of the Rio Leones For almost 20 years now, Philippe has been opening trails The Rio Leones is one of his itineraries, not the easiest, without passing by the sea Now we have some work to do in the river. We're going to remove stones that are a hazard There are two big stones that are a little tricky We're going to try to get them out. I hope the water You lost a cow? We didn't see it anywhere, [Spanish spoken audio] Hey Pato, pretty good weather today, huh? We can see the stones We should be able to get the job done. Every summer for a ride of passage on the Rio Leones. With puny means and the folly of those who dream Philippe takes on this unusual job. This is what I like about this work. Creating, assembling, and constructing. Today, I'm dredging this stone. I come so close to it I might wreck the boat If we can get it out today, We have to spend hours in the cold water but nature lends a hand. We take out the stone That's how it goes. At last, the way to the summit is clear. It's summer in Patagonia, the mountaineers of the Andes. After a lifetime of pushing his limits, Philippe came to live in the heart of Patagonia. Philippe was born into a family of avid mountaineers. Then he spent a large part Ever since, he has been following He decided to put down roots A veteran of Everest he is one of Chile's best climbers. I was raised in the great outdoors. My father was an alpine guide. I remember when I was two and a half, I walked on the summit At four, I climbed La Tourne. I was raised outdoors. All my professional activities Photographer, ski instructor, Like many things, you catch the nature bug That's what happened with me. When I'm out in the wild, I don't think about anything or the cabin I have to build. It's a way of doing yoga. Its my own brand of yoga. Its life in its simplest form, That's all there is to it. It really does me a world of good. Philippe is taking a group of climbers the base camp Over 4,000 meters high, There are three passes to cross. The climb will take 20 days. The success of an expedition but perhaps even more so here The weather is extreme, Only ten percent of the climbers From here on, you'll be crossing glaciers, and all your encampments will be on ice. The main problems Know that you're in for a rough time. You're doomed to sleep in your tent If things go bad, so that the trip can leave your head The rest is a human experience Mission accomplished for Philippe. His alpine guides will After the Arctic and the Antarctic, Patagonia is home All along the Cordillera of the Andes, the ice sheet stretch north and south This is the realm of the williwaw, the cold, violent and unpredictable wind at speeds up to 300 kilometers an hour. As soon as the weather permits, It's a fascinating monument, and a fragile testimony Well, it gives me a feeling of sadness. The chunk that dropped off was very high. It gave the glacier You can see another one falling. You can tell summer is here. It's really typical. I know from experience is that there's no going back. We'll never recover that, There's not much precipitation The glacier really took a body blow today, and that's sad. I've been coming here for 17 years. Back then, the glacier covered the rocks. The face was much higher About five years ago we started noticing an acceleration that we didn't have in earlier years. Scientists said the glacier would lose and one centimeter a day in winter. There's no way to get that back. I think that in five years it won't come down This is the pulse of the planet. A little finger on the planet's pulse. There are other spots but this is my own pulse. The village of Tortel, was for a long time isolated It was not until the early 2000s La Carretera Austral, Jorge was 14 when he came to Tortel. Like everyone else here, Tortel saw the light of day The boardwalks For years, cypress wood Tortel was founded in the 1950s They assembled thousands of rafts Jorge knows all the balseros' secrets. He wants to relay They're going to make a descent a voyage through the heart of dark forests The memory of the Rio Baker. Thanks to the cypress trees, Now, Jorge is not permitted only the trunks burned which destroyed a part I communicate with the trees, In a certain way, we depend on them. They are a source of work for us. The trees give us everything we need. Cypress wood You don't need to treat it It has a natural property. It is rot-resistant. Unlike the other trees here, We're going to He's a descendant of the early settlers They came here around 1945. His father was one Getting to know these people They were special people, They were brave, [Spanish spoken audio] Jorge and Luis Jimenez They have to gather the timber before the bad weather sets in. [Spanish spoken audio] We've made huge sacrifices A lot of sacrifices. Despite the progress, it's still hard. Even now, we woodsmen we don't get help from the government. In the 1940s, settled in this valley It was a handful of men and women far off the beaten track. The early settlers had nothing Now, some 60 years later, for the men and women of Patagonia In the forest, everyday life Luis and Diego, Jorge's youngest sons, have long dreamed of the day They grew up those men of the forest the legendary history Flanked by steep mountains, There's no road. No machine Oxen are still the best way Time has stood still Today, 70 years after Jorge and Jimenez carry on The saying goes, Everything is difficult here due to the great distances The job we're doing today is tricky. They say, That's another Patagonian saying. It's the School of Life. The School of Nature. Life teaches you so many things. It teaches you to improvise. Everything we learned here the early settlers. We've learned it all from them. I certainly did. They have left us the art of log rafting. It's very important for us It's a privilege to be able to do this So that it doesn't die out. These people are like living treasures. I think it's the most valuable aspect Jimenez, Jorge, and his sons Now, they'll take them down to assemble them all It's very moving because I've been doing this Back then, I didn't take things so much to heart. It was just my everyday life. Now there are more than 400 cypress logs It's a beautiful sight, I've done this all my life It's not pleasant work, This is how we make our living here. There's a Patagonian saying, if you live in Patagonia, Not everyone can put up It's too hard. People from Santiago or any other big city They've acquired a taste If they were to come here, It's just too harsh. [Spanish spoken audio] This morning the weather is perfect and reach the northern region If El Senor Baker, it will take them two days When the winter is harsh and summer mild, Upstream, the glacier melts Trees torn from the banks form dams The river dwellers know can submerge the valley in a few hours. All the balseros remember those The balseros are at the mercy The river has a very strong current. It sweeps you along It's really swift. If you're overconfident, You have to respect her, Nature is good, but all the same, you should never forget You have to navigate at her rhythm. The rapids are difficult. The river is very high, I'm speaking from experience. We have much respect for El Senor Baker. Jorge is quite proud of his sons and they're not about to forget Sharing a mate A lot of folks from the city, even if it is the most beautiful would envy this pleasure. Here, we're breathing good, pure air. We're together as a family. This is one of life's greatest riches. The men and the women of Patagonia They're able to overcome to live in isolated areas, where the smallest job All that is a vast treasure.