Thanks to Squarespace for making this video. In just a few short years it would plane that some thought twice about a basic fault in design. Before you got on the DC-10, were you worried about it? After the Chicago disaster though it's the engine mountings that have come under the closest scrutiny. After a series of accidents, McDonnell Douglas is newest wave of controversy. And while the DC-10 even pioneering, the company that built missteps. the DC-10's story begins in the early was undergoing a revolution. the wealthy, opened up to the middle aircraft design. A 1960s era airliner single aisle, accommodating at most six planes introduced for the 1970s added seats. These new generation of airliners increased capacity and new efficient fan affordable. Leading the way was Boeing's world's first wide-body was doubled the quickly became an icon of the jet age. But wide-bodies of their own. In 1971 With a striking trijet configuration, it and lower maintenance costs. The medium to long range airliner could be configured to carry anywhere from 255 to and a quiet spacious cabin, the DC-10 set This was an entirely new kind of anticipated huge demand. But so did rival new trijet wide-body aimed at largely companies were building pretty much the first ever jet airliner. McDonnell building them since the late 1950s, so jets. The DC-10's wide-body design technologies from earlier DC-8 and DC-9s. McDonnell Douglas took a technologically in an era of rapid technological change. development. On the other hand the L-1011s more ambitious and technically advanced design threw Lockheed's and delays. The DC-10 beat the L-1011 to McDonnell Douglas was soon out selling quietest jetliner you've ever flown in. The to please everybody. From a wide-body would quickly lose its shine. In just a from being the pride of Airlines, to a about flying. A series of accidents attributed to the plane's design, engulfed controversy. McDonnell Douglas found rushed the planes development, leading to inadequate, even negligent design decisions. In 1979 an American Airlines air disaster, but it's the events after plane's reputation. In an unprecedented suspended the DC-10 Type Certificate. sat grounded on tarmacs, and foreign airspace. The investigation focused on a mountings, but the sudden grounding [Television] How are you going to get there now? I have no idea, I just picked up my luggage downstairs in the mess, I don't know where I'm going to go form here. Before you got on the DC-10, were you worried about it? Well, in Los Angeles where it was every news report had a big write-up of it--about the incident of the DC-10s This delay is due to DC-10 operating restrictions. And passengers are requested to await further calls concerning this flight. A spokesman for the FAA and the United operators and passengers around the a climbing DC-10 will be as common in seen again. Damage to the DC-10s Airlines stopped featuring the plane in removed DC-10s from their mainline Douglas wide-body dried up. But the 1979 attributed to improper maintenance flaw in the DC-10. But that did little to eyes of the public. Because memories were still fresh from an even deadlier incident five years earlier. In 1974 a of Paris when an improperly locked cargo depressurization triggered a ultimately severed critical hydraulic one of the world's worst air disasters, two years earlier the same catastrophic American Airlines DC-10 just outside of luck that some hydraulic lines still remarkably McDonnell Douglas knew about issues with the cargo door even before the plane entered service the company during its own ground testing. Not criticized for how it handled the issue, their way out of an FAA issued air Douglas was allowed to handle the cargo But it was ultimately ignored by some disaster McDonnell Douglas was hit with victims, including up to that point the became clear they'd likely be held the Turkish Airlines disaster was a PR 1979 Chicago disaster that really seemed ensuing media frenzy, much of it driven But there were other more pointed DC-10 s design had been compromised in a deliberate rush to beat the L-1011 to the market, resulting in an overall less is that it would take years for the 1980s,McDonnell Douglas was facing even bigger challenges. The market had really only been big enough for one trijet and that ensured that neither would become a true commercial success Airlines now wanted more efficient twin-engine wide-bodies from Airbus and Boeing. cash to innovate, but that didn't stop McDonnell Douglas once again sets a excellence and technological innovation. improved version of its trijet in an era future signaled the beginning of the end But despite its troubled start the DC-10 some of the world's largest airlines. In including an infamous later incident in safety record would go on to be era, and much safer than earlier strength, reliability, and ease of workhorses for reputable airlines, and in air travel to the masses, forever Ladies and gentlemen at this time we'd Squarespace, the best all-in-one platform turbulence in launching your website, Doing so ensures you get access to interfaces, a huge selection of beautiful In the event that you are planning to portfolio or would just like a personal do, Squarespace will get you up to like to remind you that you can start squarespace.com slash Mustard and when you're ready to launch your website use the code mustard for 10% off your first