Palestine means a lot of different things to many people, and may not be the most obvious travel destination. It is often associated with conflict and political unrest. However, it is also a beautiful and fascinating region, with a vibrant culture, ancient history, spectacular landscapes, and welcoming people. On this journey I'm traveling through the Holy Land, an area important to the three main monotheistic religions, and today known as Israel and Palestine. In this first episode, I'm exploring the West Bank, the largest From the vibrant streets of Ramallah to From religious landmarks in Hebron and Bethlehem, Along the way, I meet some of the people that call this land home, and sample some of the local food. This is my first long trip after the pandemic started, It is also my second visit to the region, and therefore I use both new and older footage for this video. We begin this journey in Bethlehem, a bustling Palestinian town, known to many as the birthplace of Jesus Christ. It's also an important economic and cultural center in the West Bank. Welcome to Bethlehem in Palestine. I'm walking on Manger Square, which is in the center of the town, and I'm facing the Church of the Nativity, the birthplace of Jesus. It's quite exciting to be here, after a long time I'm going inside now to have a look. The church was built in the year 326, but was destroyed, rebuilt, and altered throughout the centuries. Its small entrance, aptly nicknamed as the and doesn't seem to do justice to its religious importance. Once inside, however, you can sense the holiness and history of the place, From the original supporting columns to the 12th century frescoes, all the way down to the Grotto of the Nativity. Here you find the 14 point star, where Jesus is said to have been born, The site is managed by three different denominations within Christianity, who all hold masses here. As the oldest continuously operating church, as well as the Christian community in Bethlehem. After soaking up the spiritual atmosphere, to get an idea of daily life in the city, to meet some of its people, This is called 'Star Street', it's the beginning or souk, or bazaar, whatever you want to call it. The streets are getting very narrow, quite atmospheric. Everything under the Palestinian sun is being sold here. This is in the middle of the souk, in the middle of the bazaar. It seems like it's the end of the week. Bustling! Good morning, welcome in Palestine! All the goods here are fresh, like this. You're welcome here! Bethlehem's economy relies heavily on tourism, and the pandemic has had a huge impact on it. While many parts of the market are buzzing with activity, Needless to say, people working in the souvenir stores and workshops Hardly affected by the pandemic is another major which has become a symbol of Palestinian culture. All around Palestine you will see olive trees, in large farms Some of the trees are hundreds, or even thousands of years old, like this tree, in a village near Bethlehem, I was lucky enough to visit during harvest season, from picking the olives to producing the oil. The floor is very slippery, so be careful! Also going to try this olive oil, freshly pressed. Very good! There are many other places worth your time, including the Milk Grotto, Shepherd's field with its Byzantine cave, and perhaps my favorite, the Greek Orthodox Mar Saba monastery. That's quite a view. So the monastery dates from 439CE I believe. It's located in a small canyon in a desert area. Incredible landscape! When in Bethlehem, there is no escaping the other side of the story. This wall was created by Israel 20 years ago as a security measure during the second Intifada. But has turned into a symbol of resistance, I suppose. The barrier stretches along the West Bank, and is one of the most visible signs of a long running conflict, which has seen struggle and tragedy for far too long. Here in Bethlehem, many local and international artists voicing their concerns, but also calling for peace. As a traveler, it's both a humbling and interesting admiring some of the artwork, which can be very creative, while trying to grasp the complexity of the conflict. Going deeply into the politics and modern history But for those who are interested, I recommend to read, watch, I'm on the way to Hebron now, which is South of Bethlehem. And I'm here with the driver called Salwa, who is also a guide. She's living in Bethlehem, and it should be a very interesting visit. So Hebron is a major industrial and commercial city. There's always a lot of activity here. One of the main products they are selling here They're actually quite famous for it. As you can see behind me these guys are hard at work, It's fascinating to watch the glassblowers at work, next to ovens that go up to 1,300 degrees Celcius. With great precision and skill, they produce some and even Christmas decoration here. While Hebron is a major commercial center in Palestine, it's also of great religious importance. We travel further downtown, to visit the Tomb of the Patriarchs, which is sacred to both Jews and Muslims. So we're now on the way to the Tomb of the Patriarchs. It's quite a way there, it's a beautiful bazaar, We're now waiting in front of a checkpoint, Unfortunately, the area around the tomb And provides a good example of the issue There is a clear division between the local Palestinian community, and the 700 or so settlers, who are protected by the Israeli army. Many merchants in the historic bazaar have moved elsewhere, and some streets are almost deserted. So we made it through the checkpoint, and now The building serves as both a mosque and synagogue, At the core stands the Tomb of the Patriarchs But it's the cave below that both Muslims and Jews believe As a traveler you can visit both areas, giving you a chance to get up close After exploring Hebron's old city, my guide for the day Salwa Visiting a traditional Palestinian restaurant. So there is tabouleh, hummus, also some halva (tahini) So what are we eating here Salwa? Alright, on my plate I have the 'mansaf'. The mansaf is lamb meat, cooked with yoghurt soup, Underneath the rice is a thin bread like this one, And they put almonds and fried peanuts on top of the dish. Delicious! With a full stomach and a lot of new insights, and onto Jericho the next morning. Good morning, we've just left Bethlehem, on the way to I'm here with Nasser. Hi, good morning everybody. How are you? You have to come here, we will take you around. He's a guide, driver, and also friend It's great to travel again with him, The road from Bethlehem to Jericho leads through dotted with small towns and local farms. It's also mostly going downwards, as Jericho It is regarded as the lowest city in the world, I'm walking now on the grounds of the Tell es-Sultan, You can see the new part of the city in the background, but some parts It's really remarkable. Large parts of Jericho remain underground, But a visit to this ancient site is an essential part These are the ruins of the Hisham Palace, built in the 8th century. Supposedly an amazing structure, back in the day. However, it was destroyed by an earthquake shortly after it was built. The palace functioned as the Winter retreat And when it was discovered by archaeologists, they were So this is the swimming pool and bathing house of the Hisham Palace. It's absolutely massive, and also beautifully The roof was created recently with the help of Japan, And also gives me some respite from the Sun. After visiting central Jericho, Nasser invited me This is my best friend from Jericho. How are you? Nice to meet you. We do some onions on the barbeque, We have a good lunch OK? So Nasser also brought his family, very nice people. First bite, here we go! Great mix, wow, what a nice kebab. Believe it or not, I'm still in Jericho, I'm not Going up a little mountain to get a view of this incredibly old city. Jericho today is a small city, mostly relying on agriculture, To make the most of a trip here, it's crucial to have your own transport, as many of the sights are located outside the city. The Dead Sea is one of the most popular places in the whole region, famous for its high salt levels, which actually keep you afloat. There's a lot more to the Dead Sea than salt water alone, and I will cover this area more deeply in the next video. Not far from here is Qasr-al-Yahud, which is mostly of interest for religious reaons, as this was the reputed spot of Jesus' baptism by John. Other sights worth visiting are Nabi Musa, the place and St George's Monastery, built into a cliff, inside the beautiful canyons of Wadi Qelt. We travel onwards to Nablus, a bustling and vibrant The history of Nablus goes back millennia, but the city's old town, It's the focal point for most travelers, and a I'm walking through the old city of Nablus, and also quite thriving and busy. People selling all kinds of things, such as halva here, It's a busy little place! This market seems endless, it just keeps going and going. People are extremely friendly, smiles all around. It's so much fun to walk here. I just left the hustle and bustle of the market The Al-Kabir mosque is in the center of the old town. Let's have a look. Islam, of course, is the main religion in Palestine, The old city is dotted with historic mosques, adding to a real sense of community here. Kunafeh is probably the most famous Palestinian dessert, It's made with spun pastry, soaked in sweet syrup, So behind me is the Al Aqsa kunafeh store. It's supposed to be the best kunafeh in Palestine, so let's dig in and grab a bite! So we don't understand each other, but I'm sure What a tasty dish! That was a really good kunafeh. Very sweet, a little bit salty at the same time, and heavy, wow, that was heavy. I thought it was a snack, but it feels more like a meal. After walking off some of the calories, where another famous Nablus icon is produced. Nablus is also famous for its soap, that is And this is how they make it here. It's quite a special That's the soap we're talking about. While the old city of Nablus is a beautiful There's a number of other sights in and around the city which can be combined as a day trip. Overlooking Nablus is Mount Gerizim, an important site for the Samaritans, members of an The steep road up has some beautiful viewpoints over Nablus, and the last town before the top of the mountain is actually Other places to visit around Nablus are Sebastiya, a friendly village with ancient ruins, including an amphitheatre, and Tell Balata, the remains of the first settlement in Nablus. Our final stop, before traveling to Ramallah, is Jacob's Well, the spot where Christians believe a Samaritan woman after which he revealed that he is the Messiah. It's located in a beautiful church, surrounded by a tranquil garden. We finish our journey through Palestine in Ramallah, a young and dynamic city, attracting people from across the region, to find work and get educated. While Ramallah lacks the tourist sights many other Palestinian cities offer, it makes up for it with a welcoming and cosmopolitan attitude. I'm now entering a fruit and vegetable market, even though the guys are just starting to get to work. They are preparing their foods. Good? Good. Ramallah is a commercial hub, and there's a strong New stores, restaurants, and cafes pop up regularly, providing the curious and hungry traveler with Ramallah is also the political center of the West Bank, even though many Palestinians regard Jerusalem as their rightful capital. For those travelers interested in politics, the Yasser Arafat memorial, in his former presidential A popular excursion from Ramallah leads us to Taybeh, a small Christian village around 15 kilometers from the city. While it offers some beautiful churches and historic ruins, the star attraction here is this family owned brewery. So welcome to Taybeh Brewery company, the first micro We're making beers with local flavors like Arabic coffee, So I invite you all to come stop by for a taste. Cheers! They also gave me a nice beer to sample, so here we go. Refreshing, nice and cold. Very good flavor as well. And that concludes my journey through Palestine, a beautiful and eye opening destination. with incredible historic landmarks, important religious sites, stunning natural scenery, and friendly, welcoming people. I continue my travels through the Holy Land in the next episode, where I will be exploring Israel. For now, I hope this video gave you some travel ideas, or provided some new insights into this complicated, Thanks for watching, and I hope to see you again next time. Travel safely!