Hello, and welcome back. I'm Joseph Hoffman. Today we are going to continue the story of Piano Street and learn how to find F and G on your piano. Let's come on over and continue the story. Let's continue the story of Piano Street. On Piano Street, the boy had a grandma that Now, do you remember where the dog house is? Let's point to a doghouse. If you're point here, or here, or down here Now, do you think Grandma would live in a I don't think so. Notice that we also have these groups of three A group of three black keys is where Grandma in a nice, big comfortable house. Now, Grandma lives in this first bedroom right Can you think of the letter that Grandma begins If you said G, you are correct. On your piano to find the letter G, you just which is Grandma's house, and it's this first Now let's find another G on this piano. Can you point to another group of three black If you're pointing right here to this group, Now let's find G. Can you point to Grandma's If you're pointing right here, you are correct. Grandma always lives in this first room here Can you find another group of three black If you're pointing up here, you are correct. Now point to the note that's G. If you're pointing here, you are correct. Here's another Grandma. Piano Street has lots of Grandma's living Now on your own piano at home, I'd like you Say G whenever you find one. Press pause and go and find all your G's, and then press play again when you are ready Did you find all the G's on your piano? Good Now, let's continue the story. Grandma was feeling very lonely one day and so she was talking to her Grandson and &quot;Grandma, why don't you get a pet to keep Well she thought that was a great idea. The only problem was Grandma didn't like pets so she decided to get a pet that she could Can you think of the letter that comes before If you said F, you are correct. This is Grandma's front yard. Now, Grandma loved fish. And so she built a fish pond in her front Now every other Grandma on the street also Can you find the front yard for this Grandma? Point to the F. If you're pointing right here, you are correct. Maybe this Grandma had a pet frog. Now there's one more F on this piano. Can you find where it is? Point to it. If you're pointing right here, you are correct. Maybe this Grandma had a pet flamingo. Maybe you can think of some other animals If you get any good ideas, you can write them down at the bottom of this video. To find F on your piano, all you have to do which is three black keys, and look for the Now it's time to press pause and find and Say F whenever you find one. Press play again when you are ready to continue. Great job finding all the F's. Now, let's play a game to review what you've I'm going to ask you to find a certain note Point to it on your screen. If you're correct you'll see a blue circle Let's try one for practice. On piano street can you point to the lowest Remember that the low notes are this direction Point to the lowest G. Since the blue circle appeared here, you'll This is the lowest G on Piano Street. Now that one was just practice, now let's Can you point to the highest G on Piano Street? Here's the correct answer. Now, can you point to the lowest F? The correct answer is down here. This is the Can you point to the G that is nearest the The correct answer is here. Now I may add in some notes that we learned when we did the Piano Street story. Can you point to the highest D on Piano Street? The correct answer is here. Can you point to the C that is nearest the If you're pointing here, you are correct. Can you point to the lowest E on Piano Street? If you're pointing here, you are correct. Remember, to find E, look for two black keys and then look to the note right after it. That's where the elephant came out. Great job learning about F and G on the piano Remember, to get more practice using activity you can download worksheets from our website. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you next Froggie how many times have I told you not in the house! Out you go. That's better. Croak!