Hey, Phil Plait here. Welcome to episode 2 Despite the salacious title, nudity is not In fact, given that a lot of astronomical observations are done at night, you may want to bundle up. [Theme Music] As it relates to astronomy, "naked eye" Just you, your eyeballs, and a nice, dark After all, that's how we did astronomy for and it's actually pretty amazing what you can figure out about the Universe just by looking at it. Imagine you're somewhere far away from city lights, where you have an unobstructed view of the cloudless sky. The Sun sets, and for a few minutes you just Then, you notice a star appear in the east, Then another, and another, and within an hour or so you are standing beneath an incredible display, the sky spangled with stars. What do you notice right away? People with normal vision can see a few thousand stars at any given time, and if you want a round number, there are very roughly six to ten thousand stars in total that are bright enough to detect by eye alone, depending on how good your sight is. The next thing you'll notice is that they're A handful are very bright, a few more are a The faintest stars you can see are the most This is due to a combination of two effects. One is that stars aren't all the same intrinsic, Some are dim bulbs, while others are monsters, blasting out as much light in one second as the Sun does in a day. The second factor is that not all stars are The farther away a star is, the fainter it Interestingly, of the two dozen or so brightest stars in the sky, half are bright because they're close to Earth, and half are much farther away but incredibly This is a running theme in astronomy, Some effects you see have more than one cause. Things aren't always as simple as they seem. The ancient Greek astronomer Hipparchus is generally credited for creating the first catalog of stars, ranking them by brightness. He came up with a system called magnitudes, the next brightest were 2nd magnitude, down We still use a variation of this system today, The faintest stars ever seen (using Hubble the faintest star you can see with your eye The brightest star in the night sky is about 1000 times brighter than the faintest Let's take a closer look at some of those Notice anything about it? Yeah, it looks blue. Arcturus is orange, Capella yellow. By eye, only the brightest stars seem have That's because the color receptors in your and only the brightest stars can trigger them. Another thing you'll notice is that stars They form patterns, shapes. This is mostly coincidence, but humans are so it's totally understandable that ancient (literally sets or groups of stars), and named Orion is probably the most famous constellation; it really does look like a person, arms raised There's also tiny Delphinus; it's only 5 stars, but it's easy to see it as a dolphin jumping out of the water. And Scorpius, which isn't hard to imagine Others, well, not so much. Pisces is a fish? Although they were rather arbitrarily defined in ancient times, today we recognize 88 official constellations, and their boundaries are carefully delineated When we say a star is in the constellation it's because the location of the star puts Think of them like states in the US: the state lines are decided upon by mutual agreement, and a city can be in one state or the other. Mind you, not every group of stars makes a The Big Dipper, for example, is only one part The bowl of the dipper is the bear's haunches, But! Bears don't have tails! So astronomers might be great at pattern recognition, but they're terrible at zoology. Most of the brightest stars have proper names, During the Dark Ages, when Europe wasn't it was the Persian astronomer Abd al-Rahman al-Sufi who translated ancient Greek astronomy texts into Arabic, and those names have stuck with us ever since. However there are a lot more stars than there are proper names, so astronomers use other designations for them. The stars in any constellation are given Greek so we have Alpha Orionis, the brightest star Of course, you run out of letters quickly, it's a lot harder to run out of those. Of course, just seeing all those faint stars can be tough, which brings us to this week's "Focus On." Light pollution is a serious problem for astronomers. This is light from street lamps, shopping where the light gets blasted up into the sky This lights the up the sky, making fainter That's why observatories tend to be built Trying to observe faint galaxies under bright someone 50 feet away whispering at you at This affects the sky you see as well. From within a big city, it's impossible to the faint streak of across the sky that's actually the combined light of billions of stars. It gets washed out with even mild light pollution. Your view of Orion probably looks like this: When from a dark site it looks like this: It's not just people who are affected by Light pollution affects the way nocturnal and more, by disrupting their normal daily Cutting back light pollution is mostly just a matter of using the right kind of light fixtures outside, directing the light down to the ground. A lot of towns have worked to use better lighting, This is due in large part to groups like the International Dark-Sky Association, GLOBE at Night, The World at Night, and many more, who advocate using more intelligent The sky belongs to everyone, and we should do what we can to make sure it's the best possible sky we can see. Even if you don't have dark skies, there's If you look carefully, you might see that a couple of the brightest stars look different than the others. They don't twinkle! Twinkling happens because the air over our and as it blows past, it distorts the incoming making them appear to slightly shift position But planets are much closer to us, and appear bigger, so the distortion doesn't affect them as much. There are five naked eye planets (not counting Earth): Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. Uranus is right on the edge of visibility, and people with keen eyesight might be able to spot it. Venus is actually the third brightest natural Jupiter and Mars are frequently brighter than If you stay outside for an hour or two, you'll the stars move, like the sky is a gigantic sphere wheeling around you over the course of the night. In fact, that's how the ancients thought If you could measure it, you'd find this Stars toward the east are rising over the making a big circle over the course of the This is really just a reflection of the Earth The Earth rotates once a day, and we're so it looks like the sky is spinning around There's an interesting thing that happens It rotates on an axis that goes through the If you stand on the Equator, you make a big circle around the center of the Earth over a day. But if you move north or south, toward one When you stand on the pole, you don't make a circle at all; you just spin around in the same spot. It's the same thing with the sky. As the sky spins over us, just like with the A star on the celestial Equator makes a big circle around the sky, and stars to the north or south make smaller ones. A star right on the celestial pole wouldn't like it was nailed to that spot, all night And this is just what we see! Photographic The motions of the stars show up as streaks. The longer the exposure, the longer the streaks as the stars rise and set, making their circular arcs in the sky. You can see stars near the celestial equator And, by coincidence, there's also a middling-bright star that sits very close to the north celestial pole. That's called Polaris, the north or pole Because of that, it doesn't appear to rise It really is coincidence; there's no southern a dim bulb barley visible by eye that's not all that close to the south pole of the sky anyway. But even Polaris isn't exactly on the pole So it does make a circle in the sky, but one By eye, night after night, Polaris is the Remember, the sky's motion is a reflection If you were standing on the north pole of the Earth, you'd see Polaris at the sky's zenith -- that is, straight overhead -- Stars on the celestial equator would appear But this also means that stars south of the celestial equator can't be seen from the Earth's north pole! They're always below the horizon. So this in turn means that which stars you At the north pole, you only see stars north At the Earth's south pole, you only see From Antarctica, Polaris is forever hidden Standing on the Earth's equator, you'd and Sigma Octans on the horizon to the south, and over the course of the day the entire every star in the sky is eventually visible. While Polaris may be constant, not everything Sometimes you just have to wait a while to And to that point, you'll have to wait a because we'll be covering that in next week's Today we talked about what you can see on thousands of stars, some brighter than others, Stars have colors, even if we can't see them with our eyes alone, and they rise and set as the Earth spins. You can see different stars depending on where and if you're in the northern hemisphere, Crash Course is produced in association with This episode was written by me, Phil Plait. The script was edited by Blake de Pastino, and our consultant is Dr. Michelle Thaller. It was co-directed by Nicholas Jenkins and Michael Aranda, and the graphics team is Thought Cafe.