(bell ringing) - [Joanna] You may have heard of ChatGPT. - The stagnance of these two characters is what propels each and changes those around them. - [Joanna] A new artificially that you can command to - Existentialism exists of our lives having some - [Joanna] You also may have heard that ChatGPT is so good and that it can be used to write essays and do homework assignments. - An existential text with its themes of individuality, freedom and (bell ringing) - So yes, I pulled a Billy to AP literature to see how far I'm a new student totally in high school. I enrolled in 12th grade at High Tech High School Okay, fine. The teacher, Michael since he'd already been and was intrigued by - I have a quick question. - Yes. - The Wi-Fi is down. - Great, thanks. (students chuckling) - Sorry. - So did ChatGPT pass or fail? (buzzer beeping) We devised two challenges to find out. Challenge number one, write an essay. Before coming to class, Mr. Diamond emailed me my assignment. - [Michael] In a 500 to 1,000-word essay, compose an argument that attempts to situate as an existentialist text. - [Joanna] The assignment also said to make explicit comparisons or connections between and &quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; by Franz Kafka. I edited the assignment text slightly, pasted it into ChatGPT I had it, a full essay. I was impressed. It drew parallels to in Kafka's book, and to Ferris. It had varied sentence structure and good grammar and I put it in a document and submitted it to Mr. Diamond via email. Then he did his thing. (upbeat music) (bell ringing) - You ended up with a three I was a little generous You showed some promise but there are some issues You got your thesis point right away. You wrote &quot;Ferris Bueller's Day Off&quot; is a film that can be interpreted as an existentialist text with freedom and the search Unfortunately, in that you misattributed a line that - You sure of that? - That I am sure of. - I am not gonna sit on my ass the events that affect me unfold to determine the course of my life. I'm gonna take a stand. - [Joanna] There were in my essay. ChatGPT confused Cameron with Ferris, saying Ferris was reserved and rarely seen next to his peers. - I think maybe you were but you wrote Ferris. - Yeah, I think that's probably - You said that the setting of &quot;The Metamorphosis&quot; was It was an urban setting. No, we need to work on being and I did not see a lot - [Joanna] Not easy for and writer to hear. - The overall quality in the lower 30th percentile I think. I think you may have the mind to get there but it's the skills that - That doesn't feel good. Challenge one, a pass, a three out of six on an AP I should note that plagiarism from Grammarly are not as plagiarism since it is original text. Do you think you would've by a computer? - I don't think that I I mean, first of all, if you look at the the actual context I'm going through 60 of these at a clip and I'm looking - [Joanna] Luckily for Mr. on ways to detect AI writing. Challenge number two, participate in a group discussion. - You're gonna get in your core groups and you're going to go and you're gonna first, review the story. Each group has been - My group was assigned to read &quot;Car Crash While Hitchhiking&quot; from the collection &quot;Jesus' Son.&quot; My group mates immediately got to the first discussion - The cop did actually stop was a part of the crime scene. - Could you also say maybe the doctor? Or is that? - Yeah, I definitely - When I searched ChatGPT for information about the the bot said it didn't have any at all. So I changed the prompt about the collection's which kind of got me somewhere. Is there a character named Billy? - Billy? Not in this chapter. - Does anyone in this to do with addiction? - Yes. - Yes. Okay. And does he attempt to navigate - Yeah. - Oh, okay. But that was really I tried different prompts like what's the bigger but I got no help. Not going well at all. While OpenAI, the company behind ChatGPT, trained this tool on a massive trove of data gathered from the it clearly hasn't read this book. Finally, I just tried to skim the text but ultimately, I just to summarize it for me. - So basically this guy traveling through, he's through like the woods and everything. - Challenge two. Fail. Of course, the whole wasn't really to try to get an A in AP Lit but to see the capabilities as an educational tool. So some have started Are you worried about that? - I am worried about the easiness, right? That's what cheating really is is like the easiest way to do a thing. They're not learning what I'm asking them if the internet can give them a full essay because they're missing out And I'm more concerned to prevent learning and beget compliance so they can get pushed - [Joanna] My biggest takeaway returning to high school 20 years after graduating, how Students already lean and more to help them It's nuts to think artificial intelligence won't be the next tech - I am definitely gonna try I feel like with all tech, And the good news is, at least here, there's some teachers that that are like excited and incorporating it because I don't think (playful music) - Hi guys. - Can you be my friend?