This video was recorded and published with the full consent of Timur Abdurakhmanov, the commander of the &quot;Alga&quot; battalion of the 72nd omsbr of the russian federation, who was taken prisoner-of-war by the Third Assault Brigade I'm happy that I became a part of this history. Tell we have a wounded major. Major of what? We have a wounded POW. Major of what? Come on. Faster. Faster. Faster. Pull him back. I'm... My rank is major. Timur Abdurakhmanov. I'm from Dagestan. I'm a hereditary military man. My father was a I was heavily wounded. But I remember that I moved out for the village of Andriivka. From my command-observation point. To clarify the situation. And to make a decision. And I didn't make it there. Didn't make it there a bit. Received a heavy wound. I couldn't move anymore. Well, I could move out of my last strength. I thought our forces were there. I could hear voices. I thought those were our guys. Well, at the outskirts of Andriivka. I couldn't imagine that units of the Third Assault Brigade had already entered there. It was only then that I heard voices. I moved there as far as I could. Fell down. I was already beginning to choke and lose consciousness. So, the guys pulled me out. I thought they were friendlies. They called out, &quot;Who are you?&quot; I mean, &quot;What unit?&quot; I told them that I'm with the 72nd. Battalion commander of the 72nd brigade. Then, after some time, I realized that it was the Third Assault Brigade that picked me up. But, for example, your brigade's head of reconnaissance was killed. It's just that it's a rare thing for a head of brigade reconnaissance to go in personally. I'm unaware of that, to be honest. Some blow themselves up with a grenade. There were those who walked out with their hands up. Trying to save their life. I don't condemn either ones or the others. Well, if I'm being honest, if I had known that units of the Third Assault Brigade would pick me up, I would not have gone out there. I wouldn't surrender myself. It depends on the kind of person. On the idea they came with. On the motivation they came for the smo with. You know. It depends on that. Perhaps, some are afraid of captivity worse than death. Perhaps. Political instructors... Well, our political officers... Yes, they do their work. Generally, they do their work on covering some big events that happened somewhere. About the successes of our units. Sometimes, about the failures of our units and the successes on your part. That is, it is all covered. Sometimes, heroic examples are given. Like, when you tell him, &quot;Surrender yourself!&quot; And he does not surrender and, instead, blows himself up with a grenade. That is, again, I'm telling you that it depends on the person. On the person themselves. I understand. But there is this point that they tell you that Ukrainians will torture you in captivity. That captivity is terrible. Well, the talks... They go on. There are all sorts of talks. Believe me. Whether we like it or not, all sorts of talks are going on. Yes. And the ones like you've mentioned have place too. Some say it's the other way around. That no, they (Ukrainians) treat you in a normal, human way. I mean, a POW is treated humanely. That (in Ukrainian captivity) they feed you and provide medical care, and so on. That is, there is no such thing as physical tortures or moral tortures. Do you discuss the situation about the crimes of your military, such as those in Bucha and Mariupol? As reported in Ukrainian and Western media. I mean, the attitude towards the civilian population. Or do they present it to you somehow differently? Or you don't talk about this at all? No, we don't talk about that, in fact. Well, they don't talk about that in my unit. We don't even have time for this. Understand me. Once we had entered Andriivka, we were there all the time. There was no time to even talk about anything, basically. Because we had to withstand the serious onslaughts. From your side. You cannot underestimate your opponent. Because we all have different approaches. To completing tasks. How would you assess the difference? In short. In points. The difference in army approaches. I'm not talking about specific moments of the combat, but in general. Maybe, conducting the combat management. How do you see this difference? Well, the management is the same. The only thing is that your soldier and the artillery crew, for example, a mortar, have a direct connection with each other. That is, without the participation of, for example, a fighter-battalion commander-chief of artillery stuff/chief of artillery-gun commander. That is, this link, battalion commander-chief of artillery, is absent. Well, I mean, in most cases you have them working directly. Well, the difference is that our commanders have the initiative. - Yes. - Well, in principle, that's how it is. Do you think this is a minus? - For us this is a minus, yes. So, it is rather some soviet relic, probably. Something like that. - Well, maybe. Maybe. Again, I don't presume to say because I'm not such a big commander. But that's just my vision. And, your home country. There were protests in Dagestan. Have you heard about them? - No. I haven't. - So, the information field is somehow closed. But, the opposition media covered it. You may have a different opinion of them, but there were videos of people going to rallies and protests against the war. Or you haven't heard about them? Well, I remember. If I'm not mistaken, it was at the beginning of the year (2022). I think it was in the spring. There were protests. Understand me. I had no connection. For me, the information field was closed due to the absence of Internet access. So you don't have Internet access at all. You only have a radio that you use. Only a radio station, yes. Did you somehow maintain contact with your family? - Yes, once a month, once every two months, if I could. I would try to go to places where there was a connection. I would ask the commander for leave and I would leave. I would call home and say that I was alive and well. And so on. Out of those people I talked with while on leave due to combat wounding... This is not my first wounding. I communicated with the guys I knew. Well, roughly speaking, out of ten people, eight did not support (the war). Their main answer was that &quot;Only if they (Ukrainians) come to Dagestan and attack Dagestan, then I will take up arms and go fight.&quot; How do you explain this to yourself? The format of the invasion. They motivate it... Well, they think that there is fascism here. The fight. That there's infringement of the russian people in Ukraine. What do you personally think about this? I don't think about this. I haven't seen this with my own eyes. I can't speak of what I haven't seen. You know. While fighting here, I haven't seen severed heads lying around or being screwed to the russian flag. I haven't seen anything like this. russia, unlike Ukraine, is not a mononational country. That is, in addition to the Slavs, there are many different nationalities there. Have you ever thought that you could have your own independent country? What connects you with russia enough to be in the same country with them, apart from the soviet past? I honestly haven't thought about it. About stories like &quot;moscow is for russians&quot;. About the fact that all the funds are flowing to the capital. About the fact that there is no correct economic balance in the regions, as far as I know. Well. You know. I was raised on the fact that Dagestan is my small motherland. And russia is my big motherland. I come from the family where I was raised like this. I never thought about the fact that... Maybe my thoughts, my mind, let's say, haven't come to this point yet. But I never had the thought &quot;Why doesn't Dagestan separate from russia?&quot; I never thought about it. Just, do you know this story, that in the history of Dagestan it was that your people fought for independence? Yes. For 25 years. Imam Shamil. Yes. And your people were also dying for it. So, this was never discussed in your family? The attitude towards this. Well, Imam Shamil is our national hero. In our republic. So. He's my national hero. You know. And he fought for independence against russia. Against the russian empire, yes. He fought. It was the russian empire then. And the attitude of the russian empire towards Dagestan at that time... Well, not towards Dagestan. It was the Mountainous Republic then. People wanted to create the Caucasus Imarate. And the attitude was completely different. Than it is now. You know. Well, the Republic of Dagestan is a subsidized republic. If we take the economic aspect... Well, for example, we separate from russia. What are we going to live on then? The republic without its own economy, without its own production, roughly speaking. We won't survive. Well, in general. Towards the kadyrovites, towards the Chechen government, as a citizen of russia... Well, just as a person and separately as a military man, what is your attitude towards them? I have a loyal attitude. Why the hell should Dagestanis die... Or what is the correct name? - Dagestanis. - Dagestanis. ...in the fields of Ukraine? Well, like. I don't get it. Well, I can't answer you for another person. Understand me. Maybe they have a lot of problems in Dagestan. For example, financial ones. Financial problems. And this is one of the big motivations to go for smo, in fact. You know. Well, where would a person in Dagestan earn, roughly speaking, 200 thousand a month? They pay those? - Yes. You know. Maybe they came here with this motivation. I don't know, maybe they really are convinced and sure that everyone here, excuse me... That there are only fascists all around here. Maybe it's like this. Maybe, as you're saying, they just have this conviction about... &quot;collecting lands.&quot; That thing. I can't tell you. You know. Well, generally, I know... I think, at least, that the main motivation is monetary motivation. Nowhere in Dagestan will you earn 200 thousand. But here, yes. There is a great, let's say, risk to life, but... It is there, this opportunity. And these funeral, &quot;grave&quot; payments. Are they paid? Do you know? It also seems to be quite a big sum of money. - 12 and a half million. Are they paid? - Yes. They are paid. To families. - To families, right. So, there is no such thing that they're not being paid? - No. No. And 3 million are paid too. Just... Why I asked. Because we see that often dead bodies are not collected by the enemy side. That is, they don't collect their own. And there is an assumption that there is logic in this. I just understand that that's why they (corpses) are just lying there and they don't give a shit about their own. And there is an assumption that this is done in order not to pay the relatives of the dead. They will just say &quot;He went missing.&quot; And that's it. Or they really don't give a damn about their own? While sitting at &quot;kerosene&quot;... When we were defending the forest belt. When I was leaving that forest belt. I was changed then. I had a clear order: until we get everyone out of there, absolutely all the bodies... These were the bodies of your guys who had remained there before. And ours too. Not specifically from my battalion, but in general. We pulled out absolutely every body. I care about this a lot. It is an important moment for me. Because, you see... A man came to fight, a man died. And he was simply abandoned. And whoever does this - may God judge them for it. Well, I'm talking about &quot;wagner&quot;, first of all. About what we saw from the battles with the &quot;wagners&quot;. So, by the way, &quot;wagner&quot; as a military unit... Well, there are &quot;wagners&quot; who are contract soldiers... Well, not like volunteers. Mercenaries. Those who fought in Syria. This is one &quot;wagner&quot;. I understand that there's a separation. And there is another &quot;wagner&quot;, which is convicts. So, in general, how do you feel about this military unit, their effectiveness and generally as a phenomenon? Well... What about &quot;wagner&quot;? &quot;wagner&quot; are mercenaries. Their sole motivation is money. They don't follow an order. They have contract. They fulfill it. This is my attitude towards them. It's just that they didn't treat their convicts the way you say about your guys. That is, they didn't care. They would send their personnel to attack in a clear field. Well, I just didn't know about that. They would just walk one after another and that's it. We would mow them down with a heavy machine gun, and the next ones would begin to move. Like they tell about those World War 2 assaults that we call &quot;meat assaults&quot;. That's actually how they would walk at us. So, as I understand it, you don't discuss such things? You don't have that. - No, I don't have that. And that story about prigozhin and his mutiny? I was on leave at that time. - So, you were in the information space then. - To be honest, I try not to surf the internet at all, in fact. We were going somewhere then, I think. When this whole mutiny started. My former brigade commander... Well, he didn't take part in the mutiny himself. He had a conflict with prigozhin. Well... The man made his choice. You know. I don't know. Maybe... Maybe that was some big political game. Maybe. Maybe, the man just got tired of everything. I don't know what was going on then. How I feel about that... Well, he did what he did. It was his choice. We live in a free country just like you. Well, let's suppose, prigozhin didn't die. He entered moscow and shot whoever he wanted. And, let's suppose, he changed the government. How would you feel about this? Or you would say: &quot;Well, there's a commander-in-chief in the army. Let him give the order.&quot; If I had an order to stand in prigozhin's way, I would stand in prigozhin's way. I tell you this. I wouldn't recognize prigozhin's power. So, putin's power has a mandate, after all. I mean, the majority of people support it. - Yes. Yes. Don't you think this smacks of dictatorship? To be sitting in power for 20 years. No matter what kind of presidents we had, they didn't suit us. But we at least have some kind of rotation of power. At least minimal. We have stability in russia. You know. - But this is not democracy. - Maybe. Maybe. In this regard, it's as if you don't care that russia has not become democratic and slipped into such a... Well, I wouldn't say that we live in such a poor country. - No, I'm not talking about poverty. I'm talking about freedom of speech. As a whole, about any values ??associated with democracy. Well, I express my thoughts freely in my country. You know. - Well, as far as we know, it's not allowed to criticize putin. I have no need to criticize him. - Well, I mean, if you had someone you were friends with. And Navalny? - Well, Navalny is in jail. And he's staying there. I don't know but... I can tell you for myself. You know. I don't feel like I'm within any political bounds. That I can't do something. Because you are part of the support, after all. And now, at the moment, have you somehow changed your worldview regarding what your government says and regarding the government in general? - No. So, you think that this is still right? - What exactly? - What is happening to russia now. Such policy. War... I did not support the war at all. In fact. Well, war is... What good can come from war? Except death, except destruction. I don't support war. I can't say that this is right. But I can't say that this is wrong. You know. I'm a committed person. I'm a military man. Please understand me. And the killing of prigozhin? He was shot down by air defense. That is, his plane crashed with an explosion on russian territory. You definitely can't drag Ukrainians into this. So. Therefore, do you perceive this as something that most likely was done by your government? Or somehow you haven't thought about this either? I didn't have time to think about that. Really. You know when I found out about that? Probably, on September 8th. Approximately. Well, literally relatively recently. So I haven't even thought about it yet. Probably, yes. Maybe he was just taken out. Maybe something else. This is big politics, you know. You know it yourself. Politics is a dirty business. By itself. So I don't try to dig into that. And the Second Chechen War. Have you discussed this at all? All these stories about blown up houses. All the rest. There are a lot of insinuations about this. In general, this was a very controversial situation, in my opinion. Well, the Second Chechen War... I'll tell you this. It started in Dagestan. Karamakhi. Chabanmakhi. It's in Dagestan. The campaign itself started in Dagestan. Dagestan didn't support it. It didn't support the federal troops, nor did it support the Chechens who came there. Dagestan has always treated this... This is intra-Chechen policy. I mean what was happening in Chechnya at that time. So. And it may or may not be controversial... You know. Maybe the military formations of Ichkeria saw support in Dagestan. That the republic would support Chechnya in this regard. And the two of them, as in the time of Imam Shamil, would unite and declare war on russia. Well, the republic didn't support it. The explosions... You know. What's good about terrorism? There's an opinion and I can't say that it is devoid of arguments. There are quite weighty arguments that the explosions were set up by the FSB to justify the Second Chechen campaign. Maybe. Maybe. I don't know anything about this. Do you have patriotic feelings specifically for your republic? I mean, how do you feel about it in general? Or you don't have such distribution? russia it is. How is it? Dagestan is my small motherland. russia is my big motherland. So you can't call yourself a patriot of Dagestan or a nationalist of Dagestan? - No. No. By no means. No. What's your attitude towards Ukrainian nationalism? Excluding the propaganda on your part. I don't see nationalism here. - So, for you, nationalism has a negative connotation? - Being in Ukraine, I don't see here... I haven't seen anyone doing &quot;Sieg Heil&quot; here, excuse me. I understand that you are now talking about Nazism and fascism. Nationalism in a sense like patriotism, only in an active deeds format. I'm talking now about nationalism as like... - Patriotism. - Yes, like patriotism. As such active, proactive patriotism. When people volunteer and give their all for their country. Yes. With big... - So, how do you generally feel about this? - With big sympathy. - Well, this is in fact what makes us fight you quite successfully. So you would do the same if you were in our position? - Yes. So, like, you understand that we're the enemy but you treat it with respect? - Of course. I always treat with respect. Do you think that nationalists and patriots in general committed crimes in Ukraine? I mean ours. About infringement of the russian-speaking people... The russian-speaking population, more precisely. Infringement of the russian language itself. But you and me are communicating in russian. At the moment. It's just... - If I saw that... How do I say this... Having been in Oleshky, in the Kherson region. In Vuhledar. If I saw heads hanging on russian flags, then I would say: &quot;Yes, I saw that.&quot; You know. I understand that you want freedom. I understand that you're fighting for your country. I have a normal attitude towards this. I'll say it again, I haven't seen anyone doing &quot;Sieg Heil&quot; here or anything like that. You're fighting for your country. That's a fact. I will never in my life allow myself to desecrate any monuments. Your monuments, for example. To your heroes, I mean. Heroes of Ukraine. For me it's... Well, what harm did a monument do to me? Roughly speaking. So. I don't know. And the outcomes... The outcomes will probably be the most... Specifically for the ordinary population. I don't think that the Ukrainians will come to russia and start slaughtering everyone there and hanging them left and right. I don't think so. Well, I'm sure that this won't happen. It will be exactly the same as... Well, this is one of the options. I can't say that... I don't think that... Well, the outcomes will be usual post-war outcomes. There will be some kind of agreement. And then on the basis of this agreement... Well, I mean capitulation and so on. You basically have that motivation cultivated that this is some kind of near-sacred war. That it is right. Well, right in the sense that... - I understood. - Yes. So, accordingly, this will be a collapse of ideals? - Maybe. Probably yes. I don't understand why your guys are going to die in a war that isn't theirs. I really don't understand this. I understand when career military personnel do this, as we were talking about it. But that I don't understand at all. I already told you. Like. The main reason is that you simply cannot earn that kind of money in Dagestan. You know. So, it's only for financial reason. - It's only... Well, yes. - Mostly. - Yes. Yes. Yes. Why hide it? You know. If at some point you find out about war crimes of the russian army. Generally, how critical is this for you? When your army commits war crimes primarily against civilians. They must stand trial. And be shot without delay. If ever in my life I see an officer or soldier commit some crime before my eyes... Believe me, I will personally shoot that person. This is my opinion. And it doesn't matter whether he is a general or someone else. In my understanding, one is an enemy, an opponent, as long as they're holding a weapon in their hands and I'm fighting them on the battlefield. And everything that happens outside the battlefield is not an opponent, it is not the enemy. If I see that with my own eyes, that man will be a dead man. And it will make no difference to me whether it will come from your side or my side. I have this attitude towards this. For me this is very very very important. Well, as for an officer and a military commander. - Yes. Yes. Yes, I have a wife and a daughter. They are okay with your job? They aren't involved in my job. I forbid them. - You forbid them to anyhow get involved in that at all? - Yes. They are worried. But I forbid them to get involved in this. I always say that I have two wives. Well, that's, like, intra-family jokes. I have two wives. &quot;My first wife is the army. My second wife is you.&quot; That's what I tell my wife. Like that. Last question. About captivity. What would you like to say to other fighters, having already experienced captivity yourself? Your personal attitude. What would you wish for your fighters, in principle? About captivity as a choice and what you saw here. Well, no, I won't say &quot;Surrender yourselves into captivity&quot; or anything else. It is the choice of each person. Please understand me correctly. I myself would not have surrendered if I had really been sure that there were units of your Third Assault Brigade there. So. But here... Well, what... It's not a resort here, of course. But they don't beat me up here. I was given full support. I mean, medical care. I'm not being humiliated. They don't apply physical or mental torture. They feed us. Not as much as we would like, of course. But, as I said, we are not at a resort. Yes, it's still captivity. It is bad. I'm telling you again that I haven't seen anyone here treating me like some kind of... No. Just like a prisoner of war. What should the attitude towards a prisoner of war be like. That's all. You okay with everything? - Yes. Now I have a question for you. Look. You said that, as I understood it, you have a generally negative attitude towards the war. You said that it's all killing and everything. But at the same moment you are a military man and for you an order is above all. - Yes. Look. If you understand that, let's say, an order from your higher command is criminal. That it's not right. You can, for example, appeal against the order - Yes. - Not carry out the order. What would you choose? To still carry out the order as a military man? Look. Depending on... Criminal in what way? If it is directed towards civilians, against the peaceful population, I will never carry out this order. No matter what it would cost me. Career, life, and so on. So, I understand correctly that you are a major, right? - Yes. - So, you would put the honor of the officer higher than the order. - Yes, higher. Of course. Yes. Undoubtedly. Have you ever had such cases? - No. Thank God, that never happened. That I ever faced some kind of choice. I mean, that the civilian population would suffer. In no case. If I will know that there is even one fraction of a percent that the civilian population will suffer... While I'll be carrying out that task. I will not carry out that task. For me this is above all. Believe me. That means honor for me.