The beginning of the twentieth rose above the skyline of New of architecture and engineering Some even when as far as to the Egyptian pyramids, not building in the world but it technology. So, why might you decay? Well, because the marvel replaced by a total monstrosity greatness, the legacy has been story of Singer Tower. I'm your watching It's History. Have a look at New York City's seventy-nine. This is the first the area and if we focus on the belonged to John Haberting $600 but beyond it, off in the massive cross. This is the world's tallest building would later. At the turn of The needed to expand their a rapidly growing workforce. In manufacturer of sewing machines gesture. Located in the corner of Liberty Street in Land values had reached a build into the sky was Gilbert Bourne, an American President of the Singer 1889 and 1905 commissioned the with earnest flag as head September the nineteenth by running a steam line from operation of air compressors foundation caseons. Cranes with capacity forty tons were also difficult from the start as the below the water line. Men were environments which was a new Another extreme difficulty was construction site was on one of city. At street level, the crew to work within. So a solution rotation of material coming in having parts pre-assembled off measures helped synergize the complicated shipments was for awkwardly shaped and rose to of material was amazing. For required delivery of over 5 watched with great curiosity. incorporated parts of Bozart expense was spared in providing and convenience and the safety the design called for the tower line so that the executive through fortieth floor would pollution or dust. Not to The technological amenities were controlled below ground in massive staff. The building was required an operation crew to run what was one of the in the city. For starters, the building's very own power nearly 4,000 outlets and grand daylight effect at night. illuminated by 3018 inch electric. The power plant the capacity of 1.4000 solely dedicated to the the use of a gigantic press. this point by various shoots were also vacuum pumps to power with outlets in each office. time such a system was had vacuum service 24/7 which entire building was outfitted furnace chambers were own thermostat so that tenants needed. 1.2000 in total. probably came at a serious perspective as heating the was below zero consumed two off topic here but if this was heating, imagine how much the and now, imagine that every also burning solids. But don't only alarming from today's eight, when the building was be highly efficient and the news only gets better inside of the Singer Tower, you filtered air. The air quality engineers. For starters, all shafts by means of electric washed, cleansed, and spray chambers and eliminator. through four sheets of water to time create a cooling effect. refrigeration plan for the throughout the building. Sinks taps delivering a choice of not before running through a best quality. Water pressure building soared to never before by massive pumps that sent tanks harnessing gravity to do entire secondary system of York City Fire Department. In plumbing fixtures and when notice that the water works go Speaking of the lantern, this of the building. Let's start sixty-two feet above the have been 612 feet above realized that it would be they utilized a quality iron as mass. The pole sink into the was extremely difficult to precision. The lantern itself small from street level. An this part of the tower alone five story building. To reach taken elevator number six to there, follow a path of ladders reaching the highest attic in opened a small trap door and platform 600 feet above New where the singer flag would be lantern was the dome with an suites. According to records, aspect of construction as the heights, steep angles, and no risk of simply being blown away this part of the building was masonry cut stonework which of limestone above the this was also an impractical material. This part of the deck was located and where the entire thirty-fourth floor furniture. The electric clock engineering known as the A series of batteries and throughout the entire building which wound itself kept time for all other clocks wires which were fully avoid interference to the time engineering room contained a which allowed for calls to be well as internally. The access the towers bank of electric company had set up its floor Enabling visitors to single ride. The car capacity per minute with a freight a much slower speed. The for loading and unloading as prevent free fall. These running on a system using chief engineer had an indicator location of all cars at any amazed by the new technology of building's first few months, at least two deaths. A painter plumber's assistant was crushed shaft. The singer building also records for the time. The tower 1908 and oh to the public Hall building in terms of being world. The building soon became especially at night when the remained the tallest building Metropolitan Life Insurance year later. Located at 24th in New York City. Lucky for stands. By not the hype had that the singer flag might not appeared when the building was dollars. 4 years later, a deal corporation was made for the Although an agreement involving transaction was made. The sale according to company records. and the following years would could best describe as artistry of Singer Tower. The many changes and the building of New York, no longer arrogant glory. In nineteen ornamental dome of the tower of the tower's appearance as In nineteen forty-seven, the were removed and the famous by many New Yorkers was slowly of itself. In nineteen electric fire that left one fifty-eight, the front by standard ones. At the next beautiful elevators were codes. Two large storefronts on were turned into many smaller surpassed the Singer Building obscurity. By nineteen sixteenth tallest building in it had been built, it was sixty-one, the company Rockefeller Center and that the real this time. Lake Coven Rose sold it to Financial Plaza according to property records. estate developer, bought the tried to move the New York final nail in the coffin sixty-four. When United States other neighboring buildings in entire block and build a headquarters. A decision that footage. In nineteen Landmarks Preservation their goal was to save and buildings in New York City that Singer Building was one of the city at one point but despite status. This meant that the from demolition. Sam Roberts, quoted in saying that it wasn't Compared to other buildings in commissioner said, had it been would have had to find someone proven a great challenge. right now, it could be assumed complex masonry work far above been spectacularly pricey to spectacularly dangerous if to it, there were other in many people's eyes. So of 1967 and was completed by writer for the New York Times a bomb hit it. Another writer commented that the singer fell Prague it was true. Despite how heyday, the building would soon of the city that was rapidly twentieth century. The Singer building to ever be demolished collapsed during the 911 building to be destroyed by its also known as JP Morgan Chase nineteen. What is now known as originally called the US steel place. Each building of the feet which is much bigger than Singer Tower offering twice the Singer Building did. The Singer many ways and cause people to such tall structures. The Flagg was known for being that already existed. He was an and tried to convince the skyscrapers blocked from streets and that it was a might take away that the was a compromise to a concept Imagine how he must be turning what replaced his greatest Barr, an architectural writer, building was a transitional development of skyscraper It architectural triumph and of steel-frame skyscrapers. It future of buildings to come. the building go. A writer from architectural giraffe in the Finally, and perhaps one of the wrecking ball was that some the design would have made it rescued from the tallest floors emergency. The executives of see the Statue of Liberty and office. Traders from all over iconic building as they arrived an American perspective, we had company was in its day by the even when you travel the world mark is noticeable everywhere. because I found a Singer sewing border of Ukraine. Of all the things that immigrants had after years of working in the significant company that and I believe many places in across their legacy. Hell, I am Northeastern Poland. What did I Architect Ernest Flagg said, a forever. More artistic would be hard to conceive. And magnificent tower will ever be copy of the Singer Building. A with. This script was largely book, A History of the Singer containing far more information to further bring life to the by preparing an audiobook on its history. So, let me know subscribing and sharing this 1,000 new subscribers, I will of a technical book from check out our video on the Concourses, our series Tao of Stories. This is Ryan Socash,