On July 13, 1944, William James Sidis's Boston boarding house. He had suffered a massive stroke. And lay dying. William may have been the smartest person His IQ was somewhere between 250 and 300. To put that in perspective, Einstein's was William's parents were brilliant Ukrainian Boris Sidis was a renowned psychologist, Sarah few women did. William - or Billy as he was known - learned At 18 months, he could read the New York Times. He enrolled at Harvard University at age 11! When he graduated, William told reporters But that would not come to be. William James Sidis was born on April Fool's Violent anti-Semitic attacks in Ukraine, which his parents to the promised land, where they She encouraged him to go to Harvard, where psychological principles to help mold his He said: "You know the old saying - 'As Parents cannot too soon begin the work of right direction..." William's parents attributed his extraordinary As a baby, they treated him like an adult. When he was a few months old, William's him. They let William observe, and he learned to His mum recalled: "He squealed with delight. No one had taught him; he had reasoned it This natural way of reasoning is also how Instead of learning through memorization, underlying patterns and structures. For example, if he learned the word "BAT" modifying the word by, say, swapping out the with a different meaning. In the same way that he learned to spell, of eight by understanding the fundamental Besides English, he knew: Latin, Greek, German, He even invented his own language as a child, Instead of reading him fairy tales at bedtime, him learn about the planets. Jupiter is named after the Roman god Jupiter Every moment was an opportunity to learn. William had no time for or interest in playing He didn't play sports or any games at recess. His father thought such childish pursuits For some reason, he had a tremendous fear His only enjoyment was riding on streetcars parks, and zoos. He collected 1,600 streetcar transfers by William ended up finishing elementary school six weeks. His mom remarked: "The newspapers never insane, or psychotic, or simply a freak. In truth, Billy was a completely normal child The media attention followed him to Harvard. Where they portrayed him as a "know it all", lecturing to a group of men. After entering Harvard at age 11, he gave dimension, which is an extension beyond the Here, he's talking about shapes with many his astounding ability to comprehend complex A professor at MIT who attended the lecture will be a great astronomical mathematician." Yet, this never happened. In fact, he would grow to resent mathematics. Shortly after the lecture, he fell ill, which The media reported that he had suffered a him his entire life. He did live with his family on an estate in the sanatorium Boris was running. (Sidis Psychotherapeutic Institute) William only returned to Harvard several months His biographer Amy Wallace described how he fellow students, he had none of the social was several years younger." When he graduated from Harvard, he told reporters, The only way to live the perfect life is to I have always hated crowds." His idea of the perfect life is described Hesperia. Hesperia's Constitution begins with: "We, But that was where the similarities end. In Hesperia, those who want citizenship have Marriage is forbidden, while polygamy is completely Interestingly, children are not raised by children shall be assigned to the charge of charge of female guardians." He rejected the influence of his parents, After leaving Harvard, he took up a position Rice University in Houston. He was 17 years old. Just like at Harvard, William didn't fit Students teased him for never having kissed Girls faked crushes on him as a joke. He stayed at Rice for only eight months and fall of 1916. Then, for some unknown reason, he quit in degree. His mother was furious and would tell people Law had to shut down due to World War I, which William was very much anti-war. He refused to register for the draft and nearly of 1918 that ended the first world war. He was extremely passionate about politics. He was briefly jailed after leading a May rights rally organized by the Socialists that organized by the Socialists, organized by anti-war message. He rebelled against the capitalist system as poor immigrants to a position of success While in jail, he met and fell head over heels who grew up in Boston. "HARVARD'S BOY PRODIGY VOWS NEVER TO MARRY HAS 154 RULES WHICH GOVERN HIS LIFE, 'WOMEN Despite telling the Boston Herald earlier "Women do not appeal to me." After the arrest, he followed Martha to New They kissed, but Martha assured him there William's unrequited love may have affected William's friend Julius Eichel said: &quot;Sidis wonders with him...&quot; He carried a photograph of her in his pocket Martha went on to marry a writer and achieved Story. When her memoirs were published, she briefly she called him "the famous and tragic prodigy me." (72%) Despite his brilliance, William failed to And any work that did show promise was overlooked. In 1925, he published a book that challenged that the universe is headed toward "heat out, so there won't be any energy left to In this state, nothing will move, change, (frozen tableau imagery) the possibility of reversing the universe's He theorized that living things could tap the process. He gave an example of a ball bouncing down on film, appears as if a hidden source of He did acknowledge that his work was speculative But it was never taken seriously in the first It was ignored. There wasn't a single review during its He made headlines for being a boy prodigy attention to his academic work. He stopped writing about physics, math, and While in New York, he took on menial jobs, that was using an early mechanical calculator The papers were all too keen to splash headlines of $23 bucks a week. He hid his genius from his co-workers. When they found out who he was, he'd move He refused to accept higher-paying work in Once, he was offered a job with a railway their technical problems. One of the officials later found him crying. William told him he couldn't bear the thought Another time, a cousin needed his math skills alignment of teeth. He offered William $3,000, the equivalent It would have taken him two hours to solve. But he refused. William's biographer concludes: "...he risking emotional and physical illness." His entire life had been defined by pressure At the expense of mastering basic life skills. He confessed to an aunt that he had never His parents may have provided him with an teach him the basics of grooming. He didn't shave regularly, wore a worn-out He reportedly didn't bathe, or at least When his father suffered a stroke and died According to William's biographer, the reason William hated the way she dominated him as They never reconciled. The Sidis' didn't raise their other child William's younger sister Helena did not Helena said that her dad had become so fed her. She was also seriously ill as a child. Nevertheless, she thrived under the guidance and write, and she passed the entrance exams In his thirties, William settled in Boston, The media had a hay day when they found out An unflattering article in a Boston daily "William J. Sidis, now thirty-nine, was to be a coming innovator in the field of science, as brilliant as Marconi. Yet yesterday a Sunday Advertiser writer found where for the past five years he has lived His health had also started to decline. He was overweight and had high blood pressure, The kind that claimed his father. On July 17, 1944, William James Sidis died He was 46 years old. He was buried beside his father in New Hampshire. Did William Sidis' parents push him too A faculty member at Rice University, where Dr. Guerard believes: "He was the victim father, nor of the romantic curse called Genius, The New York Times once excitedly described result of a scientific forcing experiment, mental phenomena in history.&quot; As we now know, early success did not guarantee If William had experienced a different upbringing, different. One thing that's certain is his exceptional If you'd like to sharpen your skills in and app where you can answer puzzling questions A cup of warm water is suspended in a large Will the water in the cup ever boil? Yes, no, or it's impossible to say. Assume the large pot never runs out of water. The answer is that it will never boil. As the cup of water heats up to 100degC in are at the same temperature. Brilliant can enhance your scientific thinking, you a competitive edge in today's marketplace. I use Brilliant to go through their Logic thinking. For more puzzling questions like these, you by heading to the custom link in my description: And the first 200 people who sign up with which gives you access to all the offerings. Thanks for watching. I'm Cindy Pom.