(Music) who Isaiah Berlin called the conscience of church and state, it would give rise to a corrupt cult. Religious nationalism is to religion what Leibowitz, who died in 1994. He understood that after the 1967 war that captured the West Bank in ultimate destruction of democracy. &quot;Our situation to a war and constant escalation without He foresaw that, &quot;The Arabs would be the inspectors, officials and police, mainly secret million to 2 million foreigners would necessarily implies for education, free speech and democratic every colonial regime would also prevail in the to suppress Arab insurgency on the one hand and also good reason to fear that the Israeli Defense would, as a result of being transformed into an who will have become military governors, will He warned that the rise of virulent racism would occupation of the Palestinians would spawn in his words, &quot;Israel would not deserve to exist The decision to obliterate Gaza has long been the movement led by the extremist Meir Kahane, who Kach Party was outlawed in 1994 and declared a States. These Jewish extremists who today make up the genocide in Gaza, where hundreds of day. They champion the iconography and language Jewish nationalism are the Zionist versions of by God as is the slaughter of the Palestinians who by the Israelites. Enemies, usually Muslims, evil. Violence and the threat of violence are magic circle of Jewish nationalism understand. those with Israeli citizenship, are to be purged. Palestine has done to Israeli society and what in Gaza and the West Bank portends for Israel in the University of Exeter in Great Britain, who has incremental genocide. He has written numerous A History of the Occupied Territories which his French publisher has ceased publishing attacks, part of the concerted campaign by censor narratives that are critical of Israel. the Zionist project that begins in the 1920s, the creation of the state of Israel had built Yes, I do think it did. And you are right the Zionist movement existed before, but I to purchase land and evict the people who were 1926. It became a settler colonial project anti-Semitism or a national cultural redefinition The moment that happened, it was very clear an indigenous native population. And it was not of settlers from abroad imposing themselves on a this idea that they can produce or establish a very much like the white supremacists in South trying to implement a project of displacement and you are trying to create a cultural political to and the area would alienate you were sold, see the effect of this to our days, no doubt. Zionist project. I, you may have known him too, Israel, they outlawed Meir Kahane's Kach Party. heirs to the Kach Party, later assassinated, talk about that tension because it was there. I when I was there, he was building sewer to colonization, or perhaps I have that wrong? colonization. If I'm a bit more abrupt about ideological stream within Zionism that believed enlightened colonizer. And yet from the colonized benefits in economic terms, in infrastructural colonization was translated not only in terms of but by the fact that Teddy Kollek as the mayor quite a large number of Palestinians from building new Jewish neighborhoods, which should So in the end of the day, the Zionist vision, Palestinians at best, at best could be tolerated That would be determined according to the Israeli they're an obstacle that has to be removed. And as &quot;Why just be content with limiting their And yet these figures represented a secular little bit about Yeshayahu Leibowitz, who you and he talks about this religious strain within as particularly dangerous, I think he even And of course those of us, Abba Eban spoke urbane. And so talk a little bit about that And of course ultra orthodox religious Yes, I call this tension, which you rightly Israel in the state of Judea. The state of Judea becomes particularly potent after '67 and it's the settlements in the West Bank, and before a force to reckon with and they combine exactly in the making. I mean I say it in hindsight, to happening, but now we have the benefit of So that state of Judea, what you can call messianic kind of Zionism combined with a wish to create a theocracy in which also secular they become stronger. They used to be on the really relevant, but now they are a central state of Israel. That is the kind of pre '67 a pluralist, secular, but is losing it in But what is so interesting and frustrating Palestinians at all. As you probably know, and occurred after 7th of October, but until the of a mini civil war between those two states in the state of Judea when hundreds of thousand to defend the kind of Israel they want. But &quot;Can we join you? And can we also include a struggle for a better Israel?&quot; They were chucked against the occupation, it's not against the semi where it is. It is what kind of an apartheid for the Jews or a theocratic one for the Jews? main issue, the most important issue that we impose yourself militarily and violently I want to talk about 1948, this is the war of implanted by violence as was the one in the United over a 100-year period, 56 million indigenous were obliterated through either diseases or 10% of the original indigenous population was allows a settler colonial project to survive That's not true in Israel. You have about 5.5 9 million living in the diaspora. This from the problem for Israeli leaders. How are they going terms of Arabs having larger families. You have I think there's a million Israelis living in how they deal with a problem. And then we'll go part of Palestine, the West Bank and Gaza. have always these two dimension, geography and you want the space without the population. unwanted population you have. So the Zionist the circumstances that developed in the region to implement a massive ethnic cleansing that left of the Palestinian population, destroyed half and demolished most of the Palestinian towns. established after 1948, that is Israel today was unable to fully complete the ethnic cleansing, that did not endanger the demographic majority state because you always knew that democracy because of the paranoia of Ben-Gurion until had the right to vote and to be elected, they Now, it's not surprising that David Ben-Gurion, was trying to pressure the government of Israel. but he was trying after June '67 to convince the almost saying to them, &quot;I was able to and now you are incorporating even a larger of leadership that followed him, some of them were politicians like Levy Eshkol and you mentioned there is no need for massive ethnic cleansing that it doesn't endanger the Jewish democracy. of people in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip political system. When some people said to them, Palestinian the right to determine their future in Strip?&quot; They didn't accept that either. So they the Palestinian national ambition and resistance that is our enclave controlled by Israel, maybe and convince the world that this is the a two-state solution. Of course, it had So historically speaking, it's the same problem it's having the territory without the people, but '48 is not '67 and '67 is not 2023, and because between territory and population changes. But the same one, and the failures are the same one. keeping people without citizenship rights is not have seen on the 7th of October is not working. I can assure you, without knowing how it which unfortunately will have an incredible Leibowitz really takes the 1967 war, which sees as the dividing point. He defines himself as borders known as the Green Line could work. But Israeli leadership to give up the occupation, really, he argues quite passionately is in civil society. Can you explain that? that I think that as we started our conversation, had been sold much earlier in the 1920s. although I think it was doomed to fail from the occupation of 1967 accelerated these processes by and the culture system that justified a daily of the Palestinians, at least inside Israel. all the time to improve the situation of the they had the right to vote, they had the right to create their own national parties and so on. West Bank and the Gaza Strip was going towards ending building of two mega prisons, one in the by at least hundreds of thousands of Israeli mega prison of policing millions of people. And which was different from Kollek and Abba, even sense that they might separate, there will be the pre '67 borders, and there will be something manageable beyond the Green Line, beyond the you will not be able to contain it, that it would the end of the day, two entities, namely a liberal No, in the end of the day, you will have one way it controls the lives of Palestinians, but in International eventually understood recently, discrimination, and oppression. And it doesn't or we talk about Nablus and Gaza, it became are Palestinians are subjected to a variety violate the basic civil and human rights. even though pre '67 there were moves nevertheless did not serve in the army or the Yeah, yeah. it's not just that the occupation for him is not Israeli society. And I wonder if you could speak why you believe these Zionist fanatics and surrounding Netanyahu, why they became ascendant? work. One crisis is what you can call the to square the circle to somehow say to yourself, liberal. This failed to work on so many levels. by that. They understood, as I once put it, it doesn't matter whether he holds the Book of And I think that's one reason the Zionist left among the Israeli Jewish electorate that this is a they said, &quot;You actually think like us, but you the world not to be fully aware of it. You don't because you have different moral approach, but that did not convince the Jewish electorate. to square the circle and take universal values colonialism and oppression. The second and no less idea that you can redefine Judaism as nationalism. a Jewish identity, which is secular, and There is a Hebrew culture, no doubt. I myself so I'm fully aware of the success of Zionism to is not a substitute for Judaism. It creates a power that a religious affiliation has. religious Jews had a clear idea what Judaism is, an Israeli Jew? As you probably know, in our is not Israeli. No, Israeli has an nationality written that my nationality is Jewish. And in the it says that his nationality is Muslim, they try to impose this idea that they can play on Christians and Muslims. It doesn't work. It the world and attempt to create a state identity modern world is not working. It is not working. as a religion by many Israeli Jews, including the then they asked themselves similar things that are Jewish scriptures into political documents of our on the public domain, on the state policy, both secular Israelis, this is something they cannot good answer. So what does it mean to be a Jew if Jew? What is a secular Muslim for that matter? maybe also exists in other places, but there's these questions become vital and existential. of the Athenian Empire, he wrote that, it finally imposed on itself.&quot; To what extent is Palestinians now being imposed on itself? I mean, they were there before, but I think the to be directed towards freethinking Israeli We have a clear case of a history teacher in Petah pupils rather, some alternative views to the was arrested for few days before he was released. anti-Zionist Israeli citizens to express doubts or of the 7th of October is regarded by the police historian would know, this can never be contained use these powers against your own people, and There's some very important critical sociologists followed the way that the upper echelons of the of the army, are now populated by what I national religious settlers are now occupying the ultimate example, and this is the terrorist of Internal Security. So even at the top, you have against free thinking Israelis, regardless of who against the Palestinians. But he may be a bit of but there are more serious people below him who not politically elected, but they come from this if you want, as dangerous as any Palestinian, and Let's talk about October 7th, both the micro Well, the micro impact is a bizarre, really and can begin to understand this. Let's start with possible mixture of total disbelief in the ability you with the most fundamental services. So it's to provide for you, not only defend you because not there after the 7th of October. I don't know did not function for about two months in terms done by the civil society. The government did who were evicted from the north or the south. believing in the state. On the other hand, policies in Gaza. It's a contradiction, but that's one of the micro kind of impact you have, inflexible, theocratic, fanatic Israeli As for the Palestinians, I think some Palestinian national movement because it's when you probably know beforehand what the me of the two... I had a webinar with some and I think there are similarities. People say legacy of 2000 when Hezbollah bravely succeeded in there is an example of an Arab paramilitary group But I said, &quot;Yes, but there's another legacy, the leader of Hezbollah, said, 'Had I known soldiers would be the destruction of Beirut, So he did talk with responsibility of when you own people. It would be interesting to see in the reacting to the Israeli retaliation, beyond were able to galvanize public opinion to show the service of October, it does not weaken the Now let's talk about the macro. The macro is that easily, and is going to be stuck there. And victory, they would have to stay there for years escalate into an uprising in the West Bank and even undercurrents in the Arab world that would have seen so far. This can escalate to regional The more positive scenario in the macro one much pro-Palestinian and even supports may succeed in convincing some governments in the to move beyond actions of civil society and maybe have a total new perception about supremacist policies, its oppression, and so on. will unfold. They may even unfold in conjunction, the more willing maybe the international basic perceptions of what is the essence of But isn't the key Washington? I mean Israel, they're pariah states, as we saw with unconditional support from Washington, Israel Well, that's a very big question because I think in a Chinese university recently in September, is still reluctant to be involved in the question policy, contrary to the way it's portrayed in anything else. And rightly so, Palestine is not they're likely to be involved too much in it. the international map that could challenge the that's one point. And secondly, yes, America in the American civil society. Israelis and of new anti-Semitism, which is a very superficial of Americans, A, is much more knowledgeable than B, is far more committed, some people would say dimension of foreign and security policies. American Jewish community. So I'm not sure that is the right approach, either. I do think there's But I do think Chris, probably the best way to do it comes to Palestine. One I call global Israel. South, multinational corporation, military of Christian Zionists and Jews who more or less everything it does, almost automatically, kind And global Palestine is made of civil societies. only Palestinians, but they really believe that very well with their own struggles against is the younger generation of the world. goes beyond a Palestine, connects rights of minorities issues with Palestine, and just America versus the rest of the world. I think which are relevant not only to Palestine, but I because I'm interested in it. But I'm sure contention and where conflicts are still raging. talk about intent. The UN says that half of during the war, that was 300 to 400 shells a day, a day. This is just by comparison, I don't I still have nightmares about it. But that's terms of the level of bombing. What is the intent? such extremity that the international community ethnic cleansing? Well what? You know the mindset Well, first of all, I think that there was really than a very careful planning. And not everything planning. As the days went by, it was clear to thought that the war gives a pretext to get the end result, as far as they're concerned, many Palestinians as possible either to Egypt if it's not sustainable now, it wouldn't even be one component among the Israeli policy makers There is a more, I don't know, even call them people like Benjamin Gantz, Gadi Eizenkot, also the last moment from the opposition. I don't know But if they're still influential on the day after, game in mind, which is to annex part of the Gaza is a very small piece of land with a huge number else would run the domestic affairs of Gaza, However, they don't think that it's even possible fulfill what they promised to the Israeli public, one of the reasons for the carnage that we are kind of triumphant photo that shows that or at least nowhere to be seen as a military but they still believe that they can. relentlessly doing it by the way, [by that, even Israeli hostages still held by the Hamas in the of what they call the land maneuver is to destroy hostages. It's very clear from the way they're but they still believe they have the power to Sinwar or an expelled Sinwar, the scenario of rest of the Palestinian leadership. These are the justified in their eyes to achieve that. happens when they don't achieve that? happens is that they are going to be stuck involved in a gorilla warfare which is much an escalation that could bring other factors consequences also for Israel itself. Can you 7th of October Hezbollah would've coordinated with the main military problem for Israel was that to defend the settlers and helping them with their in the North and not enough soldiers on the Gaza Hamas conducted. Imagine what would happen if would've got out of that. And somehow this lesson So I think that they are going to even for the Israelis themselves, in terms of in terms of economic crisis. And relying all best and most solid pillar in the world to build a they live in the best place the Jews could be in own hole here because they don't want to see what they really want to build a different future. history at the University of Exeter in Great The History of the Occupied Territories want to thank the Real News Network and Adam Coley, David Hebden, and Kayla Rivara.