This isn't me. This is Prince Maximilian, Earl of Luton And he's being treated, You see, those of you that been will know that I technically became MAX: Yay! And other than honouring my favourite kebab van, His Royal Highness the Earl of Luton, But it's time to stretch out The Earl of Luton was going on a royal tour. When a British royal goes on an international tour, they meet the public, they get VIP treatment, and So the Earl of Luton would need to get these three things, to live the high life, and find out what But with the legitimacy of my some subjects would be happier But first I need to get my royal ass, to the US of A. Made it! New York City! The Earl of Luton had arrived, but as of yet, Not the mobbing that I was expecting. I can change that though. I've got linen trousers. Classic royal behaviour. MAX VOICEOVER: So after throwing on I mean, I quite like the fit, to be fair. MAX V/O: My transformation was complete. Now, I'm the Earl of Luton. Really good to see you. Let's give this a go. It was time to check off the first thing I was pulling out all the stops for To sell Prince Max even more, And of course what kind of celebrity royal would I be, I think that's paparazzi on Friends of the channel, The Paparazzi Boys. [PAPARAZZI SHOUTING] PRINCE MAX: Or 'Your Highness'. [LAUGHTER] MAX V/O: So with all the prep done, [PAPARAZZI SHOUTING] And where better to do it, than Times Square? PRINCE MAX: No comment, sir. With all the hubbub, it didn't take long It's Max, nice to meet you. How do you do? PRINCE MAX: Have you been to London? PRINCE MAX: You've been to London, have you? PRINCE MAX: Oh no, come on. And it wasn't just the Americans PRINCE MAX: You're from Uzbekistan? Even some of my British subjects wanted a chat. PRINCE MAX: Are you from the UK? PRINCE MAX: Oh, fantastic, the Earl of Luton. It seemed that everyone wanted a piece PRINCE MAX: Absolutely, of course you can. And this was the kind of royal [PRINCE MAX LAUGHS] Yes, Earl of Luton, nice to meet you. Oh, cousin Harry's been over being getting PRINCE MAX: No! MAX V/O: But with my wrist well I decided to call it a day. It's good to know that being a royal in the States, I've got a few more things up my sleeve. The Earl of Luton's tour so far was going very well 'Loophole'. It's a show that's basically If you want to support If I was really going to be taken seriously as a true royal, Right, I know that New York Lot of people want to get pictures with the The problem is: the Earl of Luton I'm going to make a website, so that the Earl of Luton, I think I deserve something quite special. And that website is going to be made, with Hostinger. But who, are Hostinger? Hostinger Website Builder allows you even an online store with no coding Using Hostinger's Business plan, using AI in seconds, with a single prompt. Perfect. Hostinger's designed with beginners in mind, Yes, that's a nice picture of me. It's very easy to drag and drop things, much like the British empires did And there's an AI blog feature that will I cannot wait to open the new wing of the And if you choose the 12-month plan or longer, With Hostinger's Business plan, And voila, all press and media enquiries So go to hostinger.com/MaxFosh, and don't forget to use the code With my new website live, I began firing out my looking for opportunities that would enhance my presence I even sent some out by hand, PRINCE MAX: Oh shit. The letter's caught alight. There we go. MAX V/O: My 'Posh Twat' signet ring. PRINCE MAX: It's backwards, And remarkably, within hours, I had a meeting set She wants to meet me? [MOLLY LAUGHS SILENTLY] MAX: I don't think so? MAX: That's a good start. MAX V/O: But the next morning, Morning! Today, the Earl of Luton was going to be One of them... They've obviously been spooked, for some reason. Which I think is really quite rude, actually! But, now I've just got one PR company So, if I had any hope of taking advantage of MAX V/O: I'd better not give the game away. PRINCE MAX: Really appreciate it. Harry's done very well over in LA. MAX V/O: With a PR company on it was time to get myself, some VIP Fifth Avenue in Manhattan is home to some of the which are known for their exclusive unattainable to mere mortals, and So would the Earl of Luton be treated I want some champagne, I want MAX V/O: For this plan to work, She's from New York and she can talk the talk. Molly was to go into these department stores and MAX V/O: And it has to be said, that they AMERICAN MOLLY: I think in AMERICAN MOLLY: I know! [LAUGHS] MAX V/O: Now that they knew the Earl of Luton was that they would close an entire floor, MAX V/O: With everything in place, Molly then came back outside to tell me, MAX V/O: The stakes had just gone way up, So from the moment these elevator doors opened... I was going to have to really commit, MAX V/O: And it wasn't long before With niceties out the way and something to drink, MAX V/O: As we made it back to the changing room PRINCE MAX: Oh, don't be like that! No, we can always cancel them. MAX V/O: So it was time for I'm all about, you know, [MAX LAUGHS SILENTLY] It is quite easy breezy, which I like lot. I want to give that to you. No! No pictures, please! That- No. Oh gosh, oh my word, MAX V/O: The amazing staff were more than happy PRINCE MAX: Oh yes! Oh no! And I was having the time of my life. EMPLOYEE: Yes! PRINCE MAX: Good, yeah, perfect, fantastic. MAX V/O: But after trying on every and drinking the same amount of champagne I decided to cut and run, before I pushed my luck, too far. But minutes after leaving, we discovered that as American Molly had received a text, MAX: I think they have. I think they realised halfway through AMERICAN MOLLY: I've got to go. All this royal malarkey wasn't easy. We were days into the trip and I was starting to wonder if it had all been worth it. So after a quick refill at one of PRINCE MAX: What's a 'Chicken Royale'? MAX V/O: I was ready to retire the That was until I received another call, MAX: I'm very well, how are you? MAX: I do, yeah. MAX: Just for me, or for the whole team? MAX: [LAUGHS] Amazing! [LAUGHS] Come on! I've never been in a helicopter. On the very last day of my US tour, a private helicopter tour, for the Earl, and all his staff. MAX V/O: Now this was the royal treatment. Take it from me, the Earl of Luton, it's about the free helicopter rides