[ORGANISER] And his newest book just came out which is a masterpiece to read. Please help me welcome, Andreas Antonopoulos! [ANDREAS] Good morning everyone! [ANDREAS] Let's start with a quick poll here. How many of you have used a digital How many of you own bitcoin at this Okay. We can fix that. [Laughter] I would be delighted to demonstrate to you I will give you your first fraction of a bitcoin because Bitcoin -- and the digital is best demonstrated and experienced, than explained. It is actually very difficult to explain Bitcoin. I've spent That is my full-time job. Unfortunately (or fortunately), developers keep making For a moment, forget everything Forget everything you've heard about In 2011, I heard about Bitcoin for the first time. My reaction was exactly the same as the reaction of including its founder, and that reaction was: Six months later, I heard about Bitcoin again. This time, My background in computer science and distributed of what I thought Bitcoin was, and it blew my mind. In my life, I have now had six occasions in with a system of technology -- to the point and consuming as much knowledge as I possibly can: my first computer when I was ten years old, my first modem, my first access to the web, the first time I used a web browser, the first time and then Bitcoin. When I discovered it, I spent four months I lost twenty-six pounds on the highly I have not [really re-emerged] from that, because I The reason it is so fascinating? It isn't Bitcoin isn't [just] money. The blockchain isn't It is not a company, it is not a product, It is not [just] a currency. It is the concept of decentralization What is money? As INQ [the previous performer] told us, The reason we don't grasp that is because Money is one of the oldest technologies How do we know that? The very first samples tallies and ledgers of debts owed, You might even speculate that money had an oral and so [a system of] writing was created [for it]. In the history of money that spans tens of thousands From pure barter exchange to shells, feathers, beads, nuts, Then paper money, and plastic Bitcoin introduces a platform on which a network without any central points of control, It is not money &quot;for&quot; the internet but the Money is a language, a linguistic abstraction, Money simply allows us to express value but it also has other consequences. We use money to express and create social bonds, Bitcoin is the first system of money that is not controlled It introduces the very same [effects] that If money is speech, if money is a language, to make it pure speech, pure content, an internet It completely separates it from all previous notions We [transition] from institution-based Of course, everyone will welcome this with What do you think [people] said the first time someone instead of a gold coin? They said: &quot;Hah, that's not money! Go away.&quot; What do you think happened in 1950 presented their diners' club membership card, &quot;That's not money. Go away!&quot; Now we are on the verge of a new transformation borderless, decentralized, and open form of money. [Money] where you can build applications You don't need to ask [for] anyone's permission to ask [for] permission to launch The only requirement to have a successful application That is your [minimum] market segment and you have When you push innovation to the edges of the network, what happens? An exponential explosion of innovation in applications because [those systems] required permission, required adoption by many in order to be available at all. Now, none of those requirements exist. Anyone in the world can download an application and immediately acquire the same powers When I say anyone, that is only scratching the surface. Not only does Bitcoin's currency not recognize It doesn't matter if you are a person, Throughout the history of money, ownership of or an association of individuals in a corporation. Bitcoin can be owned by machines, by And that is not just about economic activity. It is the basis for creating bonds It is the basis for new applications Bitcoin and blockchain technology Today we have systems of money for small payments We have systems of money for payments between and for payments between governments. Does that remind you of something? That is how We had systems of communication for pictures, for short distances and long distances. The internet came and unified all of those. 'The Internet of Money' creates a single network which (in terms of the amount of bitcoin), in seconds, anywhere in the world, for any But if you just look at the application You can take the language, the building construct other languages that communicate value: Today, there are over a thousand digital currencies Most of them are junk, some of them are not. Over the next decade, we [will] see tens of thousands, Some will have economic use; some will simply They [may] represent items in the physical world, that can be transferred from one owner to another. Five seconds later, that [new] owner because the car can validate the standard of ownership. We cannot yet imagine what applications One of the interesting things we have observed is that... money arises out of the social constructs of homo You can teach monkeys about money. You can teach grey parrots money. They will learn how to exchange abstract tokens for They will also invent strong-arm robbery: beat up the We see that same thing happen in children. [Wooden] blocks, rubber bands, Pokemon cards and They exchange to strengthen social bonds, to express Children will be building currencies, only this time these A few years from now, Maria will be launching MariaCoin It won't really matter to anyone. Until, of course, Justin Bieber launches BieberCoin... and it happens to surpass the market capitalization We will all write horrified opinion editorials What is happening with this technology is astonishingly Banking has never been the most There is a very careful balance between innovation and that must exist when you control other people's money. Yet with Bitcoin, you don't control other people's money. I have complete authority over my bitcoin. My transactions cannot be intercepted, and so can anyone else [within] five minutes Money has changed forever. The idea that you can proceed in the and maintain the same conservative ever since merchants in Venice and Amsterdam issued That is gone, that is gone! You cannot operate closed systems that have borders, that is controlled by the most conservative Now you are competing with a technology that... enables exponential growth, innovation at the edges, It is not about anyone in this room. Why? I can open an online brokerage account and be trading That is a privilege that I have. [The other] six billion people can operate mainly in one Four billion people are significantly underbanked. They will leapfrog [the old system of banking]. Every single child born today will never have A bank app that doesn't [just] give them an international banker in an app. They will not be permitted to open a bank account By that time, I hope they will have at least I would like to watch them walk into a bank branch, what &quot;three to five business days&quot; means. [Laughter] It is highly likely the children born today will never get But they [may] also never use paper money. By the time they [reach] an age where they really It will seem as anachronistic as a fax machine, Exponential innovation on a global basis, giving access This system offers them a solution. It is not [quite] ready yet. It is nascent, complex, In 1989, I sent my first email. I [needed] to [first] using a C compiler and Unix command line skills. I [typed] out my email, which was transmitted across Exactly twenty years later, my mother replicated Today, bitcoin -- and all of the other are at the same [development] level Now we have the internet, so Innovation is [happening] at an astonishing rate. I spend every single day, full-time, Just one currency, and it is Do not underestimate this. who tell you that bitcoin is just for pornographers, Remember that they said the When you give it to two or three billion people, they are They are interested in sharing cat videos. When you take digital currency mainstream who have been isolated from international control of their money against despotic governments You give them the opportunity to control their future, to own title on their property in a fully transferable [They can have] control over [their] finances They will buy food, healthcare, sanitation, education, They will not be denied this technology. 'The internet of money' was It is coming. It is coming faster than you can imagine. It is deeper than you can fathom, more sophisticated It [will] take years of study just to see all of It represents the sixth greatest innovation in money, Thank you. [Applause] Should we do some questions? We've got plenty of time for questions. What determines the buying power of the currency? How does it stabilize and what's required to stabilize it, so if I would buy some Bitcoins, who can manipulate the value of that? Mhm, everyone. The buying power of Bitcoin is determined in exactly the same way that the buying power of the euro, the British sterling, the Japanese yen, or the US Dollar is determined through market forces of supply and demand in international liquid markets that operate around the clock. One of the fundamental differences is that bitcoin trading never ceases. Has been going continuously for seven years the network never stops. Every ten minutes Bitcoins heart beats and transactions are processed, the exchanges never close. There is no closing price for Bitcoin. It is a rolling average and in that trading a market capitalization of approximately twelve billion dollars is now traded internationally. What is twelve billion dollars for a global currency? It's a guppy, swimming in shark-infested waters and every trader, every whale goes in there and just kicks that price around. So right now the experience of living on Bitcoin which I have been doing full-time for more than three years is a roller coaster. It's an absolute roller coaster. I've seen shifts of 20 or 30 percent in a day and yet, if you look at the long-term trend, volume goes up, transactions go up, and volatility keeps dropping. And the beauty of it is, I can't sell that to an American. I can't sell that to a Brit. I don't need to sell it to an Argentinean. I don't need to sell it to a Brazilian. I don't need to sell it to a Venezuelan I went to a conference and an Argentinian told me I'm not worried about volatility, our currency has volatility like this. Bitcoin has volatility like this. I'd rather be going in that direction. And you don't need to tell them why. Their government through people out of airplanes not more than 35 years ago for disagreeing. They already know why the separation of state and money is a good idea. And so volatility is relative. Any other questions, come on. Yeah? Let's get a microphone to you one second. Thanks, a great speech. Obviously, it sounded a little bit like one side of the coin, so we also read all these you know big hacks, and I don't know, Bitfinex, you know they, I think they stole 40% of the money. I think also this autonomous organization has been hacked and all these things. Can you just reflect a little bit on the dark side or of those aspects that might not win our full trust into this evolution. Absolutely. The steering wheel was not invented until 30 years after the automobile was introduced. Why? Because the first automobiles had two leather straps that you pulled left or right to move the car, to steer the car. They used horse reins to steer cars. That's called skeuomorphic design. It means keeping a shadow of the former past in your new system, failing to see the new dimension and replicating the past. Here's a currency that is not centralized where your money is your money. Your keys, your money. Not your keys, not your money. So, what is the first thing we do with this new system? We build centralized institutional's of custodial control that take other peoples money and hold it for them. Well, guess what? The entire history of banking, the entire system of regulation and oversight is based on the simple centuries-old understanding that when somebody else holds your money, chances are they're going to run away with it. And the entire system of regulation is designed to prevent that and yet it still happens all the time. In hedge funds, in banks, in national currencies, all the time. And so of course, if you replicate custodial accounts, exchanges that take other people's Bitcoin and concentrate it It happens again, even worse because there are no oversight and regulations in most of these spaces. The answer is really simple. Stop centralizing the decentralized currency. Stop trying to replicate the banking past in the future of money. And the important thing to realize is that security in Bitcoin is an emergent property that exists because of the decentralization of control and power. If I want to hack a million customers Bitcoin, And they're holding their keys, I have to hack a million customers. If they all give their keys to one person or one organization, then we've got a honeypot. A honeypot that attracts the attention of every hacker on the planet. And notice what's happened. Over seven years and with a market capitalization of twelve billion dollars, Bitcoin is the largest cryptographic deployment in the world, the largest public key infrastructure in the world, the largest security honeypot in the world and it is not secure because it doesn't get attacked. It is secure because it generates immunity by being attacked all the time, 24 hours a day by the most sophisticated attackers this planet has. And if you in that environment set up a centralized custodial exchange using PHP and MySQL and you park a 150 million dollar Honeypot in there, you're inviting the sharks. Bitcoin banks get hacked, Bitcoin exchanges get hacked, Bitcoin has not been hacked and cannot be hacked because there is no point of control that you can apply pressure on. It's completely decentralized. All right, Maybe one more question. Where does the supply of Bitcoin come from and are you sure the market doesn't get oversupplied? The supply of Bitcoin is determined algorithmically based on a geometrically declining supply function, meaning that, in the beginning every 10 minutes, 50 new Bitcoin are created, so every block, the heartbeat, 10 minutes, created 50 new Bitcoin. This Bitcoin is used as a reward in a game theory based security model that ensures that every transaction is independently validated by completely anonymous actors who have to stake electricity as a guarantee of the security work they've done and if they succeed in doing the security work validating transactions correctly, they earn as a reward based on a probabilistic return. That reward, 50 Bitcoin every 10 minutes. That's how currency is introduced into the economy. Every four years it gets cut in half. 50 to 25 in November of 2012. And this year in July, this past July, we had our second having event which was celebrated with birthday parties all over the world and Bitcoins reward went from 25 to 12.5 Bitcoin. As a system, it's designed to have a monetary policy that is purposely deflationary and simulates the issuance of precious metals. It gets harder and harder and harder to mine gold at greater and greater and greater cost. And Bitcoin is the same. The idea being that less and less is issued over time. If you follow that geometric curve, at some point, you reach the end. In the year 2141 Bitcoin is no longer issued. 21 million coins is the asymptotic cap. It will never reach 21 million coins. That is part of the protocol, it is an unchangeable part of the protocol and it is a rule enforced by every system that participates in the Bitcoin network. It is meant to be sound money but it's not the only monetary policy that exists. There are several other currencies that implement different monetary policies. The idea is really for Bitcoin to serve as a very very solid reserve currency for many other things. What do you have to give to companies here who are from non-financial institutions about how they should take tactical steps to think about experimenting with the blockchain in terms of storing value? I think understanding that it's not just currency, understanding that it is a platform for trust. Understanding that it can be used as a historical record of truths that can register information that it can be used to create all kinds of tokens that can be exchanged between your customers, your suppliers, your manufacturers, that it can also be used simply as a currency for any cross-border transactions import/export activities, remittances based flows, paying associates and affiliates. All of the things that today are expensive, slow, and difficult become cheap, fast, and easy when you use one of these digital currencies. But It's still early. For now, learning about it. Here's the one important thing you must understand. You will hear a lot about blockchain and most of what you hear about blockchain is not The Internet of Money. It is The Intranet of Money. The Intranet is where you run FrontPage and Outlook and antiquated software in a closed little enclave of your corporate back waters with stale content and boring apps. And in the end, it's full of viruses anyway because you can't keep it secure. Blockchain that is not open, that is not public, that is not borderless that is not open for innovation is not what we're talking about here. And that's a really important distinction. It may be useful if you want to run a clearing house between three banks, maybe. But it's not The Internet of Money. Thank you. Thank you so much.