- Today, we are gonna be reacting to the most insane bike chases ever. And before we start, can you - Yeah, sure. - He was way too okay with that. Every time in this video he says the word &quot;and,&quot; I'll give his mom $100, because people use the word &quot;and&quot; a lot and his mom could win over 10 grand. Chris! - Coming! - Thanks for the water, Chris. - You're very welcome. - Let's begin reacting. So this is a downhill bike chase. - Oh! - And by hill, you meant stairs. Oh, he almost fell off of that. He's sideways, Jimmy. That's not how bikes go. Can't you still not ride a bike? - I never learned how to - I'll teach you one day. - Whenever I'd try to ride - He doesn't have good equilibrium. - Oh my god, he does. - He does, he has great equilibrium. - Okay, my girlfriend watches these, next. This is 1,000 people on a jet ski. Why don't people tell me when this type of cool stuff happens? - I wanna get a bunch of and just jet ski it out. Have you ever rode one of these? - Nope. - They're called a big wheel. They have a normal bike tire in the front and the back wheels are like hard plastic, so you can slide around and be crazy. It's also a great way to lose all the skin on Jimmy, holy crap, he's - He is kayaking down a mountain. - Wait, if you think about So I mean technically, he's still using a kayak - This is true. I wonder if he gets hurt for a defective kayak, and they're like, &quot;Sir, this - And he's like, &quot;It is, it's air water.&quot; Red Bull sponsored this. You know he went in there and he was like, &quot;Guys, I wanna kayak.&quot; And they're like, &quot;No, no, And he was like, &quot;Guys, let me finish. I wanna kayak on a mountain.&quot; And they were like, &quot;Oh!&quot; - &quot;Here you go, oh, is that could kill you.&quot; - Yeah. - Red Bull. - Red Bull, gives you money. He's just dodging trees? Okay, the barrel roll is just unnecessary. - The marketing team's like, &quot;That's when we gave him wings.&quot; - Red Bull, can you just hire us? We could make your - Here, look, this is a Diet Coke, now it's a Red Bull. - Look at that. - Oh wait, you didn't pay us? Well then it's Diet Coke. This also applies to any other beverage - We just want your money. Whoa. - Now we're jumping out of a plane. - The music is very peaceful and the view's very peaceful. - Interesting. I know there's a word now, but what is it? - Every time you say a certain word, I'm giving your mom $100. - What word is it? - Say a sentence. - The cow jumped over the moon and went into the sky. - Say some more. - And sometimes I like to go to Walmart and I like to get lemonade. And biggest thing was, one time I went to the grocery store and - Okay, you did say the word. That's all the hint I'm gonna give you. - Big, big, big, big, big, - I don't see the counter going up. - I don't know what the Mom, I'm sorry if I don't Yo, they're sliding down - This should be a sport. - What are they putting on it? - Vaseline, probably. - Oh! And you knock out your Look at this. - Oh my gosh. - Remember that time we played dodgeball? - We also did a giant, of dodgeball. Problem is, a lot of people You could literally throw and they start walking towards the line and then they just go right - They started to realize to keep track of who was - It's definitely fun, - 600 Versus 600. See, here's the thing, is once you get 600 people, and then you're a grown man - That is the dodgeball paradox. Bigger the number, wider the age range. - Yeah, I couldn't imagine, there's so many balls just You know, there's that kid who thinks he's gonna be like the anime protagonist, dodging balls and then he just gets pelted. Whoa! - Oh! - He made a mountain tube. Oh, back flip into mountain tube. He's still going. He went through a van, Jimmy! - No. - That's not safe. - That is not even worth it. Hey, this one's sponsored by Quicksilver, haven't seen - He barely cleared it, dude. - Do you think the helicopter, maybe gave him a little boost of air? This is really peaceful. This looks like Lord of - Whoever this is, hit Oh, don't invite Chris. He'll go down that and die. - Please invite me. - I'm betting on number 10, right? - All right, number He's coming in and he's going in and, oh. - Genuinely feel bad for these people. These suits are miserable. You would think it's all Oh, you're cute,&quot; no. There are few places worse on this Earth than wearing those stupid suits. They're hot, you can't everyone feels the need to - Then Jimmy, why did you - Money. - What? - No. - What if somebody told you, you were gonna get 10 - No, why would I want a bad video? - I knew that was coming. - Hey, look, it's those up the entire road while to work and you're I understand that you but I just need to get to work.&quot; Whoa, Doge! That's me chasing after Relatable, I lost so much money. Help me, God. - Hey son, clean your room please. - He can't pause the game, Mom. You're being such a sussy baka Mom. - Don't you dare! - Oh! - Oh. - Sorry, Mom. You asked me to do something I'm gonna run away. His mom's kind of athletic. My mom would just be like, &quot;All right, you'll be home for dinner.&quot; - My mom would be like, &quot;You left?&quot; Ooh, professional tag. - Yo, I love these videos. There's a thing called World Chase Tag and they have these really cool setups with all these things you I love it. - This looks like just and you're telling me - Oh, oh, he's getting away, oh. - I wonder how many people wipeout just- - Oh! - Nice, this looks so fun. This is a real sport. - This is intense. I wanna do this so badly. - Look at these RC - Those are real cars. - You telling me this in some kid's backyard? - It might be. All right, Red Bull. - Yes. - That means somebody's gonna get hurt. Somebody has to wipe Oh, that guy just didn't 90 Kilometers on those little bikes, bruh. - I knew that guy would win, - Oh, now he's going face What a dingus. What if the word was dingus and Mom only gets 100 bucks. - It's close to dingus. - Oh, dumb? Stupid, dumb, dingus, silly, nincompoop. Oh gosh, oh, no, no, My mom punching the air right now. - Speaking of your mom, can you text me a picture of your mom? For the edit when she's punching the air. - Oh, yeah, yeah. - Yo, this looks like a guy - This is Chris in high school. - It wasn't that bad, but - I would love to drive an F1 - Fun fact, if you just get a Oculus or any kind of VR headset and a steering wheel, you without the threat of dying. - But the threat of dying - The threat of dying usually It's a 1,000-man scooter meetup. - Oh my God! - Apparently the cops were called during this, but what - I mean, who cares? - Look, they got a helicopter on 'em! - That's so cool. I don't wanna live in America if we can't have - When Jimmy becomes president, all 1,000-man scooter - This just looks so much fun. - It does look a lot of fun. - Now, I wanna go to a then a 1,000-person jet ski meetup, then a 1,000-person private plane meetup. - It's like a triathlon, - Yeah . - Ooh. - I mean at this point, - This is like when we did They don't work as great - Here's a clip of us going through a drive-through Ironically, I was behind a - Yeah, they're getting some speed. Oh, he lost a tire, oh! - There are people like us in this world, who just and we never do anything cool. And then there are people 1,000-jet ski meetups going down mountains in toy cars and doing all - We're just not living. - Honestly. We as a group, need to figure Can someone just make an app called Cool Stuff Within 10 Miles, and then it just tells you when cool stuff within 10 miles is happening? - There's your free idea. - All right, he's zooming. - Oh, wait, whoa! - Oh my God, perfect timing. - You can't come through here, Oh, screw your table. - All right, this is the last clip. You wanna try to make your mom more money? - All right, so that was a really big jump and he did a back flip- - Oh, well the clip's over. The word was &quot;and.&quot; And here's how many times you said it and here's how much money your mom made. - You chose the word &quot;and&quot;? - Mm-hmm, I already have just send me that picture. - You have my mom's number?