(1970s chirpy music) The Princess has got a bad reputation. By the time ever-so middle-class, middle-of-the-road unreliable mistake from British Leyland. But the family cars flocked to in the 1980s after the It had a forward-thinking design, turning the Ford Cortina that launched just a year just like Citroen, to get the most power But being produced by British Leyland in the car's reach, and almost as soon as it had launched to rule the roost. So just what went wrong? This (music) When the British Motor Corporation or BMC launched in 1964, it was expected to be another Alec before it. With good reviews from the press, but with an awkward driving position and styling BMC was subsumed into Leyland Motors to form BMC had been skimping on development; they had best-selling models. A replacement for the older model. The 1800 would have to limp along with An internal report in 1970 projected growth sure a lot of money was paid on the research, most casual observers. The new larger mk3 Ford becoming Britain's favourite car. BL didn't have Marina that was about to launch had been sized BLs design team started work on a successor to BL had poached designer Roy Haynes from Ford, persuaded a young colleague, Harris Mann to the Capri. Roy didn't stick around long though. and left after little more than a year. With Alec this left Harris Mann as the influential His saloon version of the Austin Zanda and they invited him to produce a Mann was in love with the wedge shape and aerodynamic and practical, so his initial the Spanish word for "devil" would have a low nose A three-box shape was entertained, but ultimately exciting, forward-thinking designs. It may have of the 1800 in 1967, but even if it hadn't, been aware of it and it may have influenced The wedge shape contrasted with the rest of American shapes in pint-sized form. Harris and more avant-garde shapes that companies like fascination with European package holidays, and on their summer trips, so it made sense to bring and with the UK likely to join the Common sell the new car on the continent once it By August a full-scale clay mock-up was Mann's original sketches. Some of the awkward and by November the team had something they trapezoidal headlights, a departure from the Alternate designs for the front were produced though, Today, an aerodynamic shape is created in In the early 70s designers would create and by the time it came to wind tunnel testing of could be done to make it right. Harris Mann's getting a drag factor of 0.4. That's nothing but a lot better than its competition. The bonnet line, and care was taken with the front Surprisingly, given the shape, the car wasn't a was developed, as well as an estate version. in the UK, and there was no expectation The official reason for making Diablo a saloon was although this didn't make any sense as when from launching the hatchback Rover SD1! it would cannibalise sales from the similar no direct evidence for this, but it's likely BL felt that offering the Diablo as a who weren't hatchback fans. That wouldn't stop hatch conversions when it launched though! a front wheel drive layout. Although it was cars to have rear wheel drive, BMC had been using 1959 Mini. BL thought that changing to rear wheel backed the wrong horse or something. And with new chassis wouldn't be a million miles away from The shape was designed to incorporate both and the new E-series engine that had the gear was becoming increasingly popular as With the smaller Morris Marina being BL was intent the Diablo wouldn't make the same although it would still be shorter than European With the shape looking towards the continent, BMC had fitted many of its cars with Hydrolastic suspension fitted to Citroens. BMC was working fitted first to the upcoming Austin Allegro. made intentionally soft to give a smooth, upmarket or what passed for low profile tyres in smoothness without roll. The new car would also The rather exciting, racy codename of As work progressed there were concerns BL predicted existing Maxi and upcoming Allegro so ADO71 would have to make do with the B-series (So Smooth - Danny Kean, Doug Maxwell) ADO71 was launched as the Austin 18-22 immediately apparent - a new shape for the 1970s. made it through with only minor changes, unlike from the original design and had been nicknamed 1800 4-cylinder engine version, and the "22" was was available, with "1" and "2" manual override but British Leyland pitched as giving In the 70s, luxury wasn't measured in the number had carpet flooring or adjustable seats. The backwards, but up and down as well! There was a British Leyland mechanicals or electrics would The ultimate in 70s style, the top of plush velour seats and wing mirrors on both sides a lesson learnt after the old Landcrab's These were touches rarely seen at the time. of the optional laminated windscreen. Yes, a The rear passengers kept warm using vents were illuminated from a single bulb using fibre were the latest fad. Another warning lamp told and there was a sensor under the passenger and so if the warning lamp needed to come on. you got the top of the range model, the radio today that we used to drive around with no All this luxury was part of BLs plan for sub-brand, yes the 18-22 was also sold as a Austin Morris' managing director, they were at least for larger cars and was becoming a niche, BLs new car, praising the handling, and its As the marketing material would proclaim - But what wasn't "all together" was British been born in the late 1960s, 4 of every 10 cars By the mid-70s it was less than 3 in 10. In 1974 a mere PS50M, PS530M today (in 2021 $720M USD, In just 12 months they'd burnt through all private investor willing to sink their money into layoffs projected in marginal seats, the ruling one of a long list of industries and business World War including coal, steel, gas, electricity, medical services, telecommunications, the Post In all this melee, BL was trying to sell their umbrellas in a hurricane! It didn't help that You knew I couldn't make a video about a 1970s Even while production was ramping up ahead of the with a 4-week strike. Ironically the TV coverage Maybe it was the excitement around the new car, afloat, the marketing worked and initial demand with dealers seeing overwhelming demand. One Peugeots, Citroens and even BMWs in part exchange. than the lowly Austin/Morris brands, and showed had struck a chord with the buying public. well put together cars, and they had a hit talk about unions again! This would make a good mention the unions in a British Leyland video! was at a standstill once more. This time workers workers who were being told they needed to work The next month there was a strike at tyre producer the production line! Two months after that so production stopped once more. British industry making efficient car production almost impossible. BLs finances. The result - the Ryder Report - of the separate Austin and Morris dealerships. disappear from this new car, and the old Princess were trying to hark back to happier times with maybe they could capitalise on the feeling this So, a new start for the desirable Princess, and premium for. But with ongoing strikes, there were domestic cars, or increasingly foreign imports. My an Audi 100 in 1976. And when customers switched, and after that revelation there was no going back. reliability made national headlines, showing the Princess was old school, dodgy British financial diet, meaning any quality improvements report had recommended that BL needed a new small Quality would improve, slowly, and but like school nicknames, once lumbered with of it. Never mind you were made captain of the concussion on your first day you'll be known Those now optimistic sales projections another car painted with the brush of British the Rover SD1 would launch a year later, and would long waiting lists and public excitement would lists and poor quality made it a car to avoid. Ascona as the Cavalier that and Ford updated their top selling Cortina. One of the fasten seatbelt warning light seemed to a good idea when it launched, but after 6 months The first update appeared in 1978 as been criticised for its slow acceleration. The giving improved performance. The top of the E-series engine, as sadly BL had spare capacity get a 5th gear though, even though the E-series The 1.7L engine was more powerful than the old A new 2.0L capacity engine was of course more But as for other updates, these were harder the aerial moved from the front to the rear, an and the car got side indicator repeaters. Hardly who had been full of praise just three years reliability and lack of prestige, and maybe those actually a bit ugly. How times had changed. 1980 Austin Metro, and the focus was on repeating the latter of which would eventually replace meant the Princess had to soldier on with minor Or would it? The success of the Metro had the side The design team went away to work out that could take on the Vauxhall Cavalier and the the dust was the top of the range E-series that engine was going the way of the dodo, so the smaller O-series engine would get twin Dropping the larger E-series engine This was integrated into the restyle, along with look. But the rear got the biggest change. Ever had been clamouring for a hatchback - something The world seemed to be moving to hatchbacks and Ford's successor to the Cortina, the Sierra To accommodate this, the chassis needed a lot of all that front end work the design team changed they spent time cleaning up the design to reduce Inside there was a complete redesign. The update would get new luxury features like electric Some thought of reintroducing the car as bump to sell it as a premium car, now production or Austin Rover as they'd become, had too many make the car an Austin once more, but to give it a little bit special. Say hello to the Calling their car the "Ambassador" was maybe a it didn't seem to warrant. Ferraro Rocher would something you could buy at the local corner at the Ambassador's reception. "Monsieur, with Austin Rover had hopes of more than doubling but when they launched the new Austin Ambassador, The team had wanted to do a big styling update on look as possible, but after all that work and it looked essentially the same. In fact, with the turn a ground-breaking design into something, Cortina to see how much of a styling update The public wasn't falling for this Jedi mind but they also wanted more power, and and it still didn't have a 5th gear Features like a 5th gear were almost table especially for the top-of-the-line model. their money in all the wrong areas, but maybe a limited selection of engines and gearboxes, the Morris Ital, but surely there were But the most damning part of the Ambassador work to remedy, seemed no better than the old the interior quality was actually lower seats would break down faster than Princess a refinement of 20-year-old technology that still The Ambassador was always a stopgap the Montego arrived. It never threatened the that were selling about 10 times as many cars. by the fact that, unlike the Princess, it The Princess, like so many British Leyland in embarrassment. But it should be remembered Leyland to make a cutting-edge, class-leading The Ambassador would be replaced by the that hoped to follow-up on the success of the To see how the Maestro and Montego If you want to hear a bit more about the Thanks for watching and see you in the next video.