RuneScape has had plenty of controversial updates and, alongside those titanic updates which many I won't have to mention by name there's also the infamous update to one Climbing Boots. In 2010, all existing pairs of Climbing Boots and saw a forced price rise of 35,000%. Once a humble 212 gp on the Grand Exchange, these boots would now set you back an entire As a popular item for PKing, many players held and automatically became millionaires overnight. For the rest of the community, especially those who didn't they saw this as an unfair update that rewarded But, mere hours after the update hit, Images from the private forums of "Smokin Mils" found its way into the general community. In them, you could see a player with several now worth several billion coins. They claimed that they had stockpiled them having been tipped off by a Jagex source Did Jagex really leak the largest case of For most players, the climbing boots were nothing The majority of players who even owned a pair But in the PKing community, meta for any killer who took their role seriously. They only give a meagre +2 Strength Bonus, and these boots have basically no requirements. Compare that to the Rune Boots, with the same require 40 defence, and are obtained from so they cost way more than the 12 gold Since a lot of PKers like to sacrifice these boots are an excellent pick. And since they're cheap, if you die and you can just go and get another pair. As a PKer, you'd probably have a good Now, while PVP had certainly taken a it was far from dead. Especially with the introduction of players could have a lovely time murdering And since pretty much everyone was using and their low value meant they were never the demand for these boots was sky high. After all, you could only buy them one at a time, after going through some clunky dialogue with Ain't nobody got time for that. People play RuneScape for the high-octane action, repetitive action over and over. *cough* Anyway. This meant that boots often sold way higher making them a very profitable investment 12gp each from the NPC. In fact, money making guides on YouTube with buying and selling Climbing Boots Now, when you have an extremely tedious but you'll find one or two kids putting their and then a flood of bots designed to And while we've talked about the bot problems you might be amazed to know that the because even the bot army couldn't Now, Jagex saw the unhinged numbers and realised it was a problem. Tenzing's dialogue had been a throwaway more boots for the quest, in the thriving marketplace of foot fetishists. So, they decided to rectify the problem by giving Tenzing an actual shop A quality of life update. Now players could buy multiple of them at and letting supply finally outpace demand Why bother with the GE when you can stock Problem solved, right? Well, in typical Jagex fashion, See, it was hardcoded into the game that, then the listed GE value could not go more After all, if it's available in a shop, with this value, if not going slightly under But climbing boots were a When the update hit, the listed price from 777gp to 212gp. And since free trade had been removed, 5% of an item's value, so all the current boots available for sale And with boots now selling for a maximum of 222gp, and selling to others had been slashed, didn't want to bother anymore. Even worse, there were only 30 boots so you couldn't do it for hours on end to make Even the RuneScape wiki put up a disclaimer as they might have to wait up to 3 days So... Problem solved, right? Well, Jagex obviously saw this as another problem, the situation was the first time round. Right now, it was confusing for players and they'd need to make an exception to saw as the true value of them. But now that they'd been they realised they'd kind of written themselves into a corner, because the boots to have been. Slapping on some quick and easy stats had made for practically zero PKers were wagering nothing by wearing them, "risk" out of the "risk and reward" system So, now, it wasn't just a case of raising the This was a game integrity issue. The team huddled together and tried to think They needed to balance fixing the broken supply while also making some changes so it wasn't If they could make Rune Boots a viable option, With their best minds piled together, Option 1) Remove the bonus of the boots. Bad idea. Players hate it when you take something away from I imagine you wouldn't like it if I removed both your kidneys without And "Rune Boots" weren't a viable replacement, since that's just gating and a huge chunk of the PKing community used Not to mention PKers were still upset at Jagex Best not to upset them further. Option 2) Buff Rune boots? Also a bad idea, boots aren't meant to give The knock-on effect would Option 3) Massively inflate Well that's just an all-round I pick number three. You don't even wanna read them first? I was elected to lead. Not to read. Number three! The council had decided their fate. There would now be a quest version of and a strength bonus version with a much higher base price, which all current pairs would be converted into. To make them a "risky" item, they were with an alchemy price of 45,000 gp, ensuring At this value, the boots would be saved over other meaning players looking for the easy bonus would On paper, that does fix all the problems So it'd work out just as The code was written, approved, and ready As with any update, emails went out to all letting them know what was being released. A new quest, Quiet Before the Swarm, and the climbing boots hike. It was a beautiful, sunny day in World 66 Falador. The birds were singing, the people were screaming, Ah, riots. The players hated it! Not only because it forced PKers to risk far but because it had basically introduced items worth millions upon millions This pointless update was causing players That's not the RuneScape way. They should work hard for their money, 1 in 4000 drop, or play the Grand Exchange Wait, hang on... Now, as you're probably well aware, But, despite this, Jagex does want to calm down So, Mod Mark puts out a quick statement, giving their reasoning behind it. We've covered all that already, so we can However, Mark tries to douse the flames by no-one got super rich off of this update. Only a small number of players had more than and they could have made a ton of money by doing so the free cash injection didn't matter. But players knew that not to be true, screenshots of people with several thousands The highest stack shared was 404,000, posted to Smokin Mils' forum. The reason this one drew so much attention the poster, made: saying that he'd bought the change by a rogue Jagex source ahead of time. Now, it's not entirely certain where Whilst Kevsredox and the Smokin Mills forum Kev and his friends say the image only shows 12k. But multiple sources from the same time Either way, the images were thrown back at when there were plenty of screenshots Mark hadn't doused the flames, he'd fanned them. Players hit back, thinking Jagex are lying. Jagex dismisses the images with Mark saying for a fact that no player had more than 300,000 boots. He makes an off-the-cuff remark that he more than 1800 boots, which people take to mean "there weren't accounts which was clearly false, since some players did And so the anti-Jagex sentiment worsens Yikes, disinformation is scary. I sure am glad that we never see anything Now, 2010 was a much simpler time. Unlike modern day YouTube, where everyone about it for content No-one ever sunk that low back then. Just kidding. Within a few hours, video makers like WhatsUpRs, reported on the issue, handling it the news of what had happened without really But there was one exception to this roster. One person uploaded an extremely charged video, for this blunder, a small-to-medium YouTube channel that were on the matter. Enter LogDotZip. Bang, here are the Smokin Mils screenshots. Bang, here's Mod Mark lying. Bang, it's a Jagex conspiracy to sneak billions And to make sure as many people knew about it as possible, LogDotZip even typing up a storm in a masterful post exposing although this post was far less aggressive likely to avoid it just being locked or removed. Job done, he logs off, stretches his arms, Just as things are really Smokin Mils are on damage control. Kevsredsox is busy writing up a post admitting he'd only done it as a ploy to get people so they could watch a high-quality Although, mainly, it was a ploy to show how easy he never expected them to take it this seriously. After being bombarded by messages asking him and reveal the truth. You know how when the news blows a story but when they have to publish a correction, Just wanted to bring that So, Logdotzip's video held no ground. The outrage was centred around a fake screenshot, it was no more credible than a video saying But while most people had seen the video, at it, very few had seen the clarification. By the time Logdotzip returned to his had already racked up 30,000 views, and year this took place in. But he couldn't be happy about his relative into the game, he found out he was muted. You know when I said he was deliberately getting locked or removed? Well, it turns out that he mustn't have because the thread HAD been deleted. And on top of that, they'd removed several perfectly innocent comments, from before And on top of that, he was getting messages asking him to remove the YouTube video LogDotZip, being very understanding of the angry and upload two more videos raging and the removal of the forum thread. The RuneScape community, never one to let cause these videos to go viral as well, dumping piping hot gasoline onto LogDotZip was now a martyr for the cause. The muted king would walk around ingame with in awe of their saviour who had exposed Jagex's The forums were flooded with support, with people chanting his The riots also spread from Falador into Mod being issued as people joined As people were kicked for disruptive behaviour, and proof that Mod Mark was guilty of some With LogDotZip's video cleaving together the fake news of the leak and the two (entirely false) incidents merged In fact, some people became convinced that spreading this rumour across the community Some people said the leak was Mark telling Others claimed he had tipped off his friends Heck, some people were so illiterate that and Mod MMG, the CEO, and started claiming that Mark Gerhard was the one who Jagex really had to extinguish the fires now. Mod Mark H (I promise this and not just Mod Mark with a moustache) published a proper statement against the rumours, denouncing the leak and screenshots Community manager Mod Emilee tags in, explanation and justification, A lot of players were concerned about inflation, than gold, so there wouldn't on that front. And besides, even if every player did alchemise it would still be dwarfed by the amount of gold which was 8 to 10 times more than this theoretical And, lastly, 99% of the active player base The outliers with more than a thousand, as Mod Mark had highlighted, Now, you may be thinking that the "Yeah, fair enough, we'll settle down And... you'd be right, actually. Huh, that's a first. As with all riots, it's fun for the first then gets kinda boring and people go back The discussion about Climbing Boots died down after the initial shock wore off, Some players continued to join Mod Mark's thinking it was the most hilarious thing in when the ranked members of the clan decided the chat instead of giving But the funny thing is, in the years that have what was once a rumour has kind of turned Lots of players consider the Climbing Boots updates in RuneScape history, but that's partially tipped off a merchanting clan to make lots of money and lied about it, and You still find some players who want Jagex That were never committed in the first place. Logdotzip later went on to remove Not because he caved in to their demands but because he rebranded as a Minecraft Youtuber, Yeah, if you thought his name Okay, okay, the story isn't quite over yet. We're taking Kevsredsox at his word Is there a chance that he was lying? That he really was bragging, and after getting too much heat, tried Smokin Mils was a fairly controversial So many people still think this was an inside job. There's got to be some truth to it, right? Well, I did some digging. I did a LOT of digging. How else do you think I got 120 Archaeology? It really does seem like it was all a hoax. Beyond this single comment, there's not anywhere on the internet No friends of Kevsredsox also hoarding boots, and no one bragging about it on black market even years after it happened when they And let me tell you, RuneScape players are This would be an insane cover up; item dupes that bring in way more money than a few hundred thousand climbing And absolutely zero people were talking about this potential price hike You'll find players that say that some people but none of them can actually prove it, heard about it from a friend. Cracking great sources there, lads. So, I said there's not really any evidence throwaway comment buried on the internet. Supposedly, Mod Calm, at a PMod meeting, had told their friends, This also suggests that one player had around However, the quoted post is no longer accessible way to confirm its legitimacy that way. But a previous Jagex employee who was a part this same period can't recall hearing something they believe they would've done So there's always the chance The whole story revolves around a fake screenshot, Well, Climbing Boots were in a deadlock in up to 3 days to buy a single pair. No chance of buying a ton in advance from there. And because Tenzing now sold the boots through his shop, not his dialogue, and would take several hours to restock. So, even if you knew about you'd probably only be able to get a few If a player really did have 91,000 pairs, it's because they had been collecting them So either the quote is fake, wasn't noteworthy in the slightest. Take your pick. So, that's all there is to it. Smokin Mils started a rumour, Logdotzip blew "Just kidding" so lots of players still think it was As an interesting addendum, Kevsredsox, went on to write that he believed there was game total, speaking from experience. Given less than 1% of players had more than Kev probably wasn't that Thank you all so much for watching. One of my favourite parts is finally getting to solve mysteries that no one else has put a fork in already. Another mystery we closed was a theory we posted and was later confirmed Check it out if you want. Anyway, my name is Will Miss It,