Hi I'm Rick Green. Whenever I give a presentation there are four topics that invariably come up They are medication number one, natural who should you tell, and finally finding the no wonder I always run long, and of these four the Linda Walker, PCC: I think everybody's got you're, you're stuck with the idea that you you never get a chance to really tap into your tap into it because they're so busy just trying to Rick Green: I've met so many people sometimes their whole lives, moving from job Excel... heck even just do okay and not get fired. Wilma Felman, M. Ed: People with and in the wrong job we can be totally depleted. Rick: When I graduated from high school with I was going to do for a living, let alone Wilma Felman, M. Ed: We put tremendous pressure on our young adults to make major career and thousands of dollars and years and the general population struggles with that. Rick: Listen I got lucky, I work with some great wonderful career for me. First as a comedy writer and then naturally producing and inevitably Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), wasn't as Finding the right career can take time, I know, it's not a simple process because ADHD we're all a little different Wilma Felman, M. Ed: People will come in and um I have ADD, ADHD and I need that and I'll pick one and I'll be gone. we're very complex beings, we're made up of of those people and put them in a room chances they would all have pieces of different Rick: ADHD is so individual, you got the the purely in attentive subtype, you got 18 Wilma Felman, M. Ed: It's the and to the varying degrees that you a very different skill set and challenge perhaps both in the same career field, Rick: The right job for you depends on to look at both the areas where you thrive in the right situation despite or Dr. Mark Berner: My son is a high school teacher he can be animated, he can use his energy, he of the room, the back of the room, sitting, Dr. Edward Hallowell: People with ADD focus in a crisis, so they'll often seek dangerous Racing a motorcycle. Dr Hallowell: Race car driver. Margaret Weiss MD: Taming wild horses. Dr. Hallowell: Entrepreneur. Margaret Weiss MD: Running Dr Hallowell: Brain surgeon. Margaret Weiss MD: An emergency room physician. Dr Hallowell: Trader on the Commodities exchange. Margaret Weiss MD, PhD: A stock broker is in constant risks that would make anybody else think Dr Hallowell: Really the the key to treating and find the right job, and adults with ADD they marry and work for someone who and someone who doesn't really like them all about fifth grade that that's what they so they had to be ridden hard on, they had to be Rick Green: By the way some of most of them are pretty open about it, and told me if you love what you do for a living and Mom she she was a mob hit Dr Steven Kurtz: If somebody happened to perfectly suited. I'm never in the same place different projects at the same time, I have that might make somebody else disorganized. So Margaret Weiss MD, PhD: I actually remember a when you grow up and he said a radio announcer, it would be so wonderful if people could just Rick Green: However for those with the thoughtful ADD adults a busy workplace can be constant interruptions debilitating and yet they rules or strict deadlines or standard operating Dr. Mark Berner: If people with ADHD with the crows and go to sleep with they wouldn't have that that regimentation, and the challenge then is you know, obey The joke was always that the worst job in the Motor Vehicles Department you know or you know being a toll collector I think having like the worst kind of job I where you're kind of stuck in a chair and you have to be civil, and Rick Green: Unless you love being helpful. There's no one list of ADHD friendly Wilma Fellman, M.Ed.: Traditionally people have like accounting and like anything that time. The truth is that your set of symptoms Dr Steven Kurtz: So if you have a job where you don't need to be shifting sets often, that's on the neuro pychological tests that we Wilma Fellman, M.Ed.: Yes there are to, whether they're a good fit Sometimes we don't know really what the tasks are attorney shows, people think that it's like what's and if I'm a good presenter or I'm a good orator, great attorney, and truthfully if you look at the it breaks down jobs into tasks and gives what and you would find that law is 75% data. particular field that doesn't necessarily Rick Green: Of course there you might be drawn to something that doesn't Wilma Fellman, M.Ed.: And if you are you the hyperactivity component and you you might make a wonderful researcher. Dr. Mark Berner: But I have a client most complicated and involved legal Rick Green: But generally we prefer very clear tasks do this do this short deadlines. Margaret Weiss, MD, PHd: I don't ADHD friendly, it's everything that it requires time management, Rick Green: Okay cooking doesn't float my boat check out an episode of The Bear. So to summarize understand your particular version In the next episode what if you finally at it you get a raise and a promotion to you'll be tracking paperwork, detail work, We'll also talk about career counsellors and jobs with structure, with real structure, for some people that is frustrating, for All right thanks for watching do share your or drop by the house, bring lunch. After a few days once you've digested all the two days who am I kidding you're going to watch it pen and a paper to jot down stuff that resonates and ideas and these aha moments, and oh yeah, and oh and you know what else that reminds me and each was ... what was it this is good, boom that what was I going to say here? Oh I had something