- [Narrator] Mount Saint to those who like to climb snowy slopes. Especially on the mountain's south side, it's easy to forget what unless you make a trip to This is as close as most people get, to Mount Saint Helens' dangerous side. An unfriendly, forbidding to everybody. Well, just about everybody. After signing away our we were allowed to join who do have permission But, we were warned. - [Chris] You're going There could be steam explosions. You're dealing with poisonous gas. You're dealing with weather, I mean, you're going into a harsh environment. You're just a visitor, and - [Narrator] Our above the hundred foot high Loowit Falls, before setting down on the - We're right I the blast. Actually, we're right at right here, and if it went off, like it did in 1980, we wouldn't - [Narrator] Our only transportation leaving us alone for the day, and within minutes we got a in this place. - [Charlie] This is one reason that it's closed to the public, some of these rocks as big as a Volkswagen. And, a hard hat wouldn't do ya any good. - [Narrator] Charlie Anderson led the way, deeper into the crater. He's an independent He knows the dangers as well as anyone, yet he still gets excited - In fact, this is my since 1980, and this sort because I've only made it up here twice. Normally I make it up here - [Narrator] The other to help document the changes taking place in this exotic, other-worldly landscape. Travel here is extremely difficult. There are no trails in the crater, and the going is slow. Up ahead is the volcanic which has been growing in fits and starts, ever - [Charlie] The last dome in October of 1986. We had steam eruptions between 1989 to 1991, and I happened to be in the and all I did was go behind a rock, and just pray, and the thing about sixteen, seventeen And, we were wondering if we'd ya know. - [Narrator] Things are quieter today. Everyone is cautiously wary, yet eager to find out what lies ahead. - [Chris] It's an adventure. I can't pass it up being I have a volcano in my - [Narrator] Chris Barrens on over 40 research trips to the crater. - [Chris] There's about a cross-section of approximately a 3,000 year history, so just to read the historical and present eruptions, is extremely exciting. - [Narrator] The question is when will this mountain erupt again? Predicting that is the trickiest But, there are other that are worth understanding, and possibly, worth worrying about. One of the newest dangers, is a glacier that straddles the dome. That's much bigger than it first appears. - These lines over here are crevasses. Crevasses on a glacier and it's moving down From September, 2002 to July, 2003, the glacier advanced down Which is incredible. In July, 2003 there was than there was last year at that time. - [Narrator] Charlie was the glacier's formation, and his research indicates that - [Charlie] I don't think a glacier grow from almost This is the fastest new glacier growing in the continental United States. While most glaciers are because of global warming, One of the many reasons why and accumulating, it's on the which has little sunlight, so, the shadows keep - [Male Voice] Wow. - [Narrator] A steady also ends up scattered on the ice. This layer of debris forms that keeps the ice from melting, and allows the glacier to build Glaciers, of course, aren't But, the rapid pace of sets it apart from Just 50 miles away, is Mount Rainier, a more typical Cascade peak, with several dozen named the mountain's flanks. Rainier's glaciers are and visible from just about anywhere. But, Rainier is a and its glaciers are shrinking. In contrast, the unnamed is growing fast, and it's sitting on top of a restless, and earthquake - [Chris] One of the dangers becomes active again. There's a pretty good source of a lahar, ya know, a mudflow if there's a significant eruption. - [Narrator] It's happened before. During the 1980 eruption, the mountain top glaciers and other volcanic debris, that swept down the Toutle River valley. This is not a scene residents At the USGS National Volcanic Laboratory, in Vancouver, Washington, seismographs act as an early warning system, gathering realtime earthquake from sensors placed on the mountain. - [Steve] We're always because it is the volcano that's in the Cascades. - [Narrator] Hydrologist, is reason to take notice of - [Steve] Because it erupted in 1980, did not remove all hazard. So I can show you, as comparison and so you can see as I the dome grows and the sort of in a horseshoe of the snow, and ice, and and so that's a fairly for this glacier to develop. Eventually what this will do, is fill up, and in who knows how many years from now, eventually we'll have a prior to the 1980 eruption. And, it will erupt again, someday. - [Narrator] Studying the how much ice, snow, and And, whether something like a big earthquake, is one of the things But, the glacier is now big enough, that a lahar, if it considerable damage. - This used to be almost a ten degree angle slope, if going all around the dome, that's how much has accumulated since 1986. The lahar hazard would be tremendous, because all the glaciers in 1980, half of that mess is It would take five million dump trucks, just to get all that snow mass out. - [Narrator] The Toutle River from a series of lahars in the 1980's. The danger today is aggravated, because the mountain's throat and only an aging sediment stands in the way of the next debris flow. This dam is filling up, becoming less and less Things have been quiet for many years, but the visible damage of past lahars, serves as a reminder what the shouldn't be ignored. Back in the crater, Charlie the glacier's growth. But, recent trips have of the previously unknown, - [Charlie] There are actually and there's a mile and The caves are continuing to expand, and sometimes they fall as the glacier keeps creeping around. - [Narrator] The caves conceal and they shift and collapse, and reshape constantly. So, Charlie keeps his - [Charlie] In the caves because at certain times for example, we had 445 We're just basically studying like is it geothermal activity, and it is a lot of geothermal activity for the fumaroles that - [Narrator] The caves and ground vents spew hot and Melting glacial ice joins and ground vents beneath the dome, only to emerge as boiling streams, that cascade down the mountain. These thermal features provide is up to, how active it is, how hot it is, and what kind of changes are - [Chris] This is a geothermal And, here's a good example of The darker brown grows and then you get the green, which grows at a lower temperature. The water at source, is probably about 170 degrees fahrenheit. - [Narrator] Scientists will continue to monitor the mountain for as well as any up-ticks that could trigger a lahar. Yet, despite the abundance in the crater, research is in fact, cooler than and is slowly quieting down. People like Charlie are just beginning to put all this information together. Still, there are reminders everywhere, that this is new earth, and even violent change, is a constant. (crashing rock) By late afternoon, a caused by a near constant and avalanches. Chris and Charlie agreed - [Chris] It's a risk, and that's part of the research, I mean, ya know, if no one went into no one would really know It's a needed thing to do. - [Narrator] As we lifted off, and looked down upon the we tried to pretend once again, that Mount Saint Helens that many have come to think it is. It's probably wiser to accept