Sadhguru: Tell me one damn You want the whole damn world fixed In Australia, every day, nine people commit suicide. Sadhguru: What happens in their mind for Layne Beachley: So, how do we navigate this inner turmoil? Sadhguru: Unless we do something, right themselves consciously. There is no other way out. Layne Beachley: Good afternoon, everybody. Thank you We're waiting for? We've all come here to hear him speak, and interesting conversation. My name is Layne Beachley. Namaste! I could teach you how to surf, sitting But it's so great to see so many beautiful smiling Have you been turned on? Sadhguru: That is a wrong question. Sadhguru: Because I'm always on! Nobody needs to turn me on! Layne Beachley: Okay, just share that gift Sadhguru chants Jananam Sukhadam... (Sadhguru's presence) Sadhguru: Namaskaram to everyone. Layne, you're Layne Beachley: And you're the Guru. I had a lovely Indian driver in our taxi. His name is Suman. He's in the audience here &quot;When I drop you to the convention center, I'm going He was very excited. And then one of my passengers today is in your back seat.&quot; He's like, &quot;Oh, my It was like his energy almost exploded out of the car. the minute you sat down at the front of this I mean, I'm married to a rock star. I'm used to see People touching you, people crying, people yearning to be Sadhguru: It's their love. Layne Beachley: It's their love for you. Layne Beachley: But how does that... It's silly to you feel just centeredness in love. But my question so strongly to be within your presence, to be within to feel me... to be a part of you? Sadhguru: So... see, what is a human being yearning But essentially, whether they're seeking education essentially they're looking for some sense of fulfillment. Somebody believes, &quot;That will do it for me.&quot; So, may be different. But the common factor is, they're you know, different people are doing different things. it could be food and sexuality, people are seeking it could be ambition, conquest or simply shopping. If So, these are all the different ways. See, there are we have a mind, we have emotions, and we These are the only four ways they can act. So, physical But again, it's... you're in square one after those kind of things, acquiring things in life, all The moment you have it, it means really nothing. doesn't have it, and they still value it, enjoying all things that you desire are meaningful only for most people precious things that they've bought How many things that you shopped for, have not That says everything, isn't it? So, what is the fulfillment as a process itself, as a life process. So, in some way, you're looking there, when you turn well, it overwhelms them, you saw. Layne Beachley: You Sadhguru: The only way out is in, there's no other whether it is turbulence or tranquility, whether it's everything happens from within. There may be a Whatever you can instigate with a stimulus, without any stimulus from outside. It's like, if you Today your car is self-start, I believe, not Layne Beachley: Yeah. whatever is your experience happens within you, do or it needs a push from outside? When you find is right here. You don't have to run after anything. People keep asking me, &quot;Sadhguru, what three-hundred and sixty-five days?&quot; I said, I'm essentially lazy, Layne Beachley: The challenge that we have within is often filled with fear, anxiety, inner turmoil to create inner peace? Sadhguru: See, when we say within, where does simple question to all of them. The human misery names for misery, unpleasantness - where is the Where is it? In your mind (Overlapping conversation)... Sadhguru: So, you are just going into the mental in mind you can do whatever you want. As an and think of a mountain, can you, do it? Layne Ocean, of course you can do it. Sadhguru: So, I'm saying you can go to any place in than real, for many of them. Simply because in beauty of human mind, that you can create whatever you want mentally. But if you start believing its You... Let's say, you build a castle in the air and If you start living there, you're psychotic. But a that is a psychiatrist. You can build whatever you want in your mind, but If you start thinking it's real, then you have all these because you're believing structures that you built between psychological structures and existential psychological drama as existential, then I can make anything... I can sit here and fall in love. Anything you want you can do in your mind, but you You have become compulsive as to So, this is a journey from compulsiveness to they're thinking it's too fantastic already. I want No, no, no, I want you to... you've taken if you make the entire junney... journey how Not thinking, &quot;This is it, Sadhguru, I got it!&quot; That's you must go all the way, isn't it? Hello? Layne Beachley: Yes. Sadhguru: Say &quot;Yes,&quot; Aaa? Layne Beachley: So how do we develop that Sadhguru: See... always anything spiritual, the Layne Beachley: Yes. Sadhguru: Because it's been captured by all kinds ghosts and goblins who will come and do this and they come, whatever. This is been captured, How did you get this? When you're a child, now you've become this much. How did it happen? It's an accumulation over a period of that is also accumulation of impressions. Whatever you What I gather can belong to me, but cannot Participants: Yes! Sadhguru: I'm usually... I'm usually speaking to Layne Beachley: Oh, Sadhguru: Now, the very way you are is such that It is true you gathered this body over a Sadhguru: It is true all the content of but now you think it's me. So right now, you because it's been sitting next to me for some years now. &quot;It looks like Sadhguru has some problem, but After some time, I say, &quot;This is me,&quot; then you say, If you believe yourself to be something other than Participants: Yes (Layne: Yes). Sadhguru: See, all the countless number of people who walked Topsoil. Oh! This also... all the best! They're I'll bless you with a long life, but anyway you because nobody is negotiating life and death. Little more time we want, that's all. We want all All our competitors! Layne Beachley: No, my competitors Sadhguru: So essentially, what we gather, we put it we think, &quot;Absolutely this is me.&quot; So, once you which is not you... I sat on this chair for a Just see how ugly it becomes, wherever I walk this how ugly it becomes? That's how it is. The moment something turns ugly. Because now fears, anxiety, nothing happens there is a problem. Tell me one They're not educated, they suffer that. If they're poor, they suffer poverty. Make them they suffer that. Get them married... I did not say So, you look... seems like you're suffering You suffer life, you suffer death, you suffer where is the problem? The problem is just has given you a very sophisticated computer out So you keep knocking yourself like this, like these days all the young people have this habit and whenever they sit, it calls somebody. Okay? Bum Will it call who you want? No, if you want to So, right now this is all that's happening with one's compared to any other creature on this planet, Hey... Some of you're not agreeing. Sadhguru: You have a better brain than any other damn Sadhguru: More complex, more sophisticated, but just If you remove half their brains, they would be peaceful. I don't know how you're here. They're trying Layne Beachley: Peace! Sadhguru: See, if you take away the but is that the way to deal with your life? Take So how do we handle this? The first and foremost program, many of them... I don't know how many of Participants: Yes! Sadhguru: Oh... Oh! That's why! Sadhguru: So, the simple process is this, if you your mind is there, what is you is a little away, and your physical realities and your psychological Because there are only two kinds of sufferings in Little distance, suddenly they're not a the nature of your body and the nature of See, for example, you know, whether this earth is we've been arguing about this. The man who everybody believed it's flat. It's just then it is round, but still we don't know. Then definitely it's round, but not sure. Someone 100 percent round. Distance, isn't it? If you were transportation, we're just walking on this is it round or flat? Even now if you walk up and down here, But it's round, we know that now without... you just came from Japan, I heard. So, suppose but there's a traffic jam. Now this traffic jam got into the plane and your plane took off. Then red lights and white lights, you know. Have you But when you're in it... So this is all, your whole If you're little above it, you know the nature Once you know the nature of your mind... that's why you're a champion, all right? There they'll fall all over the place... Sadhguru: ...because their body doesn't take So, shall I check these people, all the people? Please try this. Wow, not bad at all! Can you Wow, so much control you have! Can you do You want to put it here, it goes there. You You want to put it there, it's gone. So, when you it goes there, it's dangerous to live. Hello? Sadhguru: So, this is why so much fear And if I ask you a simple question, all of you, Whatever you say - yes, no, silence Sadhguru: You want a sharp mind. Once we you must know how to hold it. Why we Not because a knife is dangerous. Never has it Did it ever happen? Not even down under. whether this ca... knife can be used to save a who is holding it, right? So, the same thing goes in your hand and you are a little la la la la la la happening right now. What human mind is doing to individual is worse than intestines coming out, more Because if I give you a knife, first thing you If you hold the wrong end, tighter you hold, more it'll how to hold it, it'll... it'll scrape you all over. human experience is caused within you... is that so? Sadhguru: All human experience happens within you, The world will never happen your way. Please know little bit somebody else's way, that's how then where the hell do I go? It happens little must happen 100 percent my way. But right now happening your way, isn't it? If this one happened Whatever the situation, we'll deal with it to the best Some situations we know how to handle, some That's about it. Right now, you may not but at least you should know what you're there's going to be serious problem. Similarly, food appears on your plate. You say, &quot;This is my food,&quot; you So will we get it now that wa... the food that you ate is Will we get it now or will we only get it from but if we get it now you can transform Anyway, it's useful Layne Beachley: I just want to go back a little bit because when we grow up and as adults we have this longing to belong and if we identify identify with what you have to say. You talk where all the answers are, yet there's 5000 people answers from you because Sadhguru: See, I mean we don't want to play It is not because of what I have spoken, they that they are doing in their life, because Words anybody can say, today you will hear this said to you right from your childhood, many, many people, isn't it? Great things have there is no experiential dimension to it. It it means something, after three days you've So because there is a practice, there is an at least a little bit. That realization is always the difference, not the identity. Layne Beachley: And what Sadhguru: As I said, we generally call it Inner See, our lives have improved in so many ways, because of because it's engineered in a certain way. Now This is engineering, you didn't swim or surf, the If... Suppose you did this 100 years ago or let's If you claimed you're the messenger of God, we there is no precedence, but still we would believe you. because you flew from Japan to here. But a... very common thing, everybody does that, just a Sadhguru: So, what you call as magic or a miracle... I could claim I'm the messenger of God and people the whole population would bow down, yes or no? So, This is called Inner Engineering. You engineer your int... that it's the way you want. At least you will ever be 100 percent the Sadhguru: You can agree with me, hello? Sadhguru: Even if you have two people in your family, That's why most people got dogs these days. But When they need food, they behave the way you the way they want, all right? Sadhguru: So, no one, just no one in your This one person must happen, isn't it? If this would you keep yourself miserable or blissful? Sadhguru: Blissful. For yourself, it's always Sometimes what you want foyo... for your neighbor is always highest level of pleasantness. What is we call this health. You want it? Sadhguru: See, from now on when I ask you a it's up to you. Health? Sadhguru: If this becomes very pleasant, Sadhguru: Oh! Big yes they say? Layne Beachley: Yeah, they want pleasure. If Participants: Yes! Sadhguru: If it becomes very Sadhguru: If your emotions become pleasant, Sadhguru: If it becomes very pleasant, Sadhguru: If your very life energies become Sadhguru: If it becomes very pleasant, Sadhguru: If your surroundings become pleasant, Sadhguru: Only to create... Only to you need the cooperation of the world around pleasantness of the body, pleasantness of the one hundred percent your business. Participants: Yes! Sadhguru: Pleasantness in the world, you need Getting cooperation from various forces and people, to the same extent, but keeping this one pleasant, Only thing is they have to become willing. &quot;Oh, See, it is that &quot;but,&quot; you have to kick that it's not going to happen. &quot;Yes, I want to be like with her la... being like this.&quot; There's no end before you can be peaceful and happy, Layne Beachley: I believe that our lives are So our li... if we don't know what we believe, reflect back to us what we believe. Now you were what we want, then we work towards that. through Awake Academy know what they So if we're addressing people's concerns from to connect with what they &quot;do want?&quot; Sadhguru: See, the only thing that human beings want Just that different people are defining it in only if I get a billion dollars.&quot; So, his pleasantness or maybe for good. So, similarly, everybody is sometimes they are not. If they are fur... fulfilled, and then it drops off. So, essentially fundamental thing If you righ... don't take charge of this, no you can live in... See, recently something happened, they committed suicide. They're living in a See, the nature of mind is such, whatever If you're dwelling upon, &quot;I don't want small small waves at you. Layne Beachley: Yes, Sadhguru: So, this is what I said, you have a huge computer, Sadhguru: Keyboard. So somehow it's working. Rest of the time it's in reaction to other things. being human is this - you're the only creature on Wombat? Being? Just a Wombat. Elephant? Only you are a being. What this means is, if you If you know how to be, then what is the problem? So this problem is because... You know that monkeys at one time.&quot; Not me, that guy. Layne Beachley: What were you? Sadhguru: Sadhguru: &quot;You were all monkeys and then you making it very simplistic. A goat could've A pig could've become an elephant over many a man rather too quickly. Yes? To a point where somewhere. Did you find any? So, if you look at the DNA the DNA difference between you and a Not much of a difference, isn't it? So physiologically, But in terms of intelligence and awareness, you're You have an intelligence for which you don't have a your own intelligence is Layne Beachley: We stabilize ourselves Sadhguru: In many ways. You're on a surfboard, Sadhguru: It works to some extent. Somebody dances, different types of activities people use, to how many hours in 24 hours can you surf or dance or you find an inner mechanism, which wherever you physical activity, you get enslaved to that activity. I have to sing, all neighbors will have to vacate. I throw 80-foot wea... waves all the time. Sadhguru: So, I'm saying any activity that we do, only Only if I drink this I'll be happy, we have to be our inner way of being, we get enslaved to that to keep it on for 24 hours all the time. No it's an inner mechanism where you just know how to be, So, this is where the Yogic systems are important, inward in such a way, a transition happens, where But with every other activity, you have to do That's the fundamental difference. Layne Beachley: So, yes, right of course. So, I think ...because there's a lot of inactivity now with Sadhguru: Their thumbs are growing. Layne Beachley: Yes, yeah, the thumbs Sadhguru: Thumbs up, you know. Layne Beachley: Thumbs up, yeah, or thumbs down, the narcissistic nature of social media, for example, honoring their feelings, being aware of how getting shares, comments and likes, and it's How do we inspire our children to Sadhguru: See, this is a responsibility, those of A child means it's not just a reproductive job. What kind of people will live on this planet is determined Participants: Yes. Layne Beachley: Yes. Sadhguru: What sort of people will populate determined by the mothers and fathers of today. When And of course, you know, that human beings are Participants: Yes! Sadhguru: You know that they're Sadhguru: Okay. We're not an enga... endangered you must reproduce because you know there's a Sadhguru: We have multiplied, many fold, beginning we were just 1.6 billion people. Today we're It's not just excessive reproduction, it is just So population is multiplied. Essentially, we The average life expectancy of a human being Today it's 70-plus in most places. So, when you should also have postponed your birth. literally almost five times over in a little increased in its size, individual human footprint. and what we are consuming is massively different. Sadhguru: See, just look at this. What your grandparents automobile or homes or whatever - I think what you Yes or no? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: So, our consumption has Everybody is trying to control human People drive an electric car to the office, Layne Beachley: Yeah. Sadhguru: People are doing this everywhere. So, But bringing down human population consciously, to attempt this because everybody thinks, &quot;If I So my kind should go up.&quot; Whether it's in terms of race terms. So, we are yet to be sensible enough to and then no-place-to-live kind of situation, All population projections show that somewhere around It is expected about 12 percent of the population may Sadhguru: Twelve percent. Layne Beachley: Oh, Layne Beachley: Yeah, yeah. Wow! Sadhguru: Right now, the suicide rates in every nine people commit suicide. Sadhguru: Is... Does it make you happy? Hey wha... Layne Beachley: Sadhguru: So, in India, 38 people commit suicide every In United States,18 people commit suicide every in 2020 when pandemic was raging, more people who died of COVID. So, you don't really people will do it by themselves and that number is up to 12 percent could commit suicide because it issues are growing in so many different ways. bring people to learn to handle themselves co... impulsive and compulsive reactions to is very much possible. See, right now about 22 percent Recently, the Surgeon General in United States announced is feeling lonely. If two of you are sitting here, one of Loneliness is the incubation period for you are cooking it up. It's just a question of time, in a certain way. If they become little formidable, towards mental illness, suicide is just one more somebody died or not. People anyway die, all If a man or a woman... man or a woman, a human being... Layne Beachley: Mostly men. Sadhguru: She seems to be enjoying it! Layne Beachley: No, not really. Sadhguru: But that... Layne Beachley: ...from a Layne Beachley: I don't... Sadhguru: ...in It speaks badly of the men because we need to break Why do men feel like they... Sadhguru: No, I'm Sadhguru: ...maybe the ladies Layne Beachley: We're not... I'm not responsible Sadhguru: See, in India, there is a law called something to freak somebody, and they went and committed Layne Beachley: Really? Sadhguru: Yes... Layne So don't do... say this in India, okay? Sadhguru: So, the important thing is, see whatever means. Death is not the problem. See, the It's natural, whether you're a ant or a human But you want to take it. You know how much What happens in their mind for those few to make the decision, that is terrible. The human suffering, Layne Beachley: Yes... It is. I'm glad we agree on that. Sadhguru: So, that much human suffering we The worst thing is, in 2022, 18600 children Of this, 7600 children were below 15 years of child wants to commit suicide, what are we doing? A child is an exuberant piece of life. Twelve-year-old, do we not understand that we're doing everything A child! But this is what is happening, this is across poor countries, whatever kind of countries, it's if we don't take care of certain things. Because when I saw in the month of January few of the environment ministers and when I spoke They said, &quot;What is soil Sadhguru, what's wrong with In... In the COP there's no soil?&quot; &quot;No, we didn't 100 days this, you know, I rode a motorcycle from And, when this happened, we managed to touch Once people started speaking, the narrative changed. In COP28, the soil became the main theme in &quot;Soil the Superstar.&quot; A non-existent soil became working with Azerbaijan which is the next host for Now European Union declared, &quot;If you climate mitigation can happen.&quot; I'm saying where hit oil or whatever else, fossil fuels, because Nobody wants to talk about it. See, if you want to we must shift - but, if you want to shift technological innovations need to happen. Innovations It may happen tomorrow, it may not happen Nobody can time scientific development, that There is no such thing. It may happen, it may not happen. this is one piece of the planet where human The land that human hand is upon, isn't that Layne Beachley: Yes. Sadhguru: Our hands are on it. Isn't that the first because there are so many vested interests who want to at least if 60 percent of the population If all of you every day say something about whatever transaction you do, you keep saying it. Then it then money is invested, then things will happen. that's very cute but that's not a solution. Solution Layne Beachley: You say that, &quot;The pursuit Sadhguru: Isn't it? Everything that human beings Can I tell you a little story? Sadhguru: This happened, there was a potato So, he went in search of an apple tree, he found he started digging the ground for apples. and dug furiously. After some time, slowly the Repeatedly I went through this, human experience happens from within, joy But you're digging up the whole damn planet to this is disastrous! So, without a shift in consciousness, and you tell them, &quot;Don't use it, don't use it,&quot; Because with the technology that we have, ten people can destroy the planet. Hello? Sadhguru: You don't need the whole population which is a billion rooms. People have built 1000 rooms, there are people who built 1000 rooms in their but still they have 1000 rooms If your competition goes on 80-foot wave... Sadhguru: So, this in pursuit of happiness, you're always looking for things that you don't I should not be frustrated, I should not be see, happiness is not something that you have to by your own nature, isn't it? Hello? When you're to make you unhappy. Today, everybody has to everything turned around. What happened? See, at the you should've been ecstatic. If you grow up, I'm isn't it? Your body grew, your brain grew, your Those of you who have children - because if you have a child at home and you are there, Participants: Child! Sadhguru: Who should be a consultant for life? child enters their life, they think they want to learning how to be alive, which you were also at carrying the planet on your head. No! Hello, is Simply, nonsense, because you don't know Nothing has been done about it. Right from it's all about how to conquer the world. You you can call it whatever, but ju... look at the tone of everything. There is nothing about, &quot;how I should be. &quot; Hmm? how as a human being you should be within yourself? It's expected in another 15 years' time, 50 diagnosed as mentally ill. Now, when you say mental in an asylum or something. If...shall I redefine If you're getting angry for three minutes a day, once in three days, you're already on the way, because They think you're mad anyway. Yes or no? So, just learn to live with mad Not much choice, everybody seems to be in the same Sadhguru: This happened in Minnesota. So, a lady was going to a party in the evening and many years, but she never had a situation where she looked at where the jack is and how to put it, around her. She looked. Here there's a mental howling from inside. So she got a little scared., nobody is going to climb that and come over - She got the jack out, lifted the wheel - first time in it's a heavy tyre and wheel, and she somehow when you pull out these four nuts, you put them She put it in the hubcap, but she's... she was where you can net... neither sit nor stand, you know. Sadhguru: And she's on six-inch high heels, she's stepped on the hubcap. All these four nuts flew Layne Beachley: Especially when stepped on by stilettos. Sadhguru: And it fell into the snow and it disappeared. but no nuts. She was looking at it totally dejected, She looked up, on the third floor of the He said, &quot;Remove one, one nut from all the three wheels, She did just that, and she was wiping her hands, but you're such a smart young man, why are but I'm not stupid like you!&quot; So, you must make up your mind, which one you Sadhguru: Yes, because madness is an When I say mishandling, the first mishandling is, who you are. So these three boxes you must create See, what is it people suffer, just look at this. What may happen day after tomorrow, they Sadhguru: They're not suffering life. They're that is we have a vivid sense of memory which sense of imagination which allows us to create so they're suffering. If they had the brain of an And they would also be eco-friendly. So, essentially four-and-a-half years ago I think, there was a young Participants: Yeah! Sadhguru: Oh! So, she was a television anchor. One and killed herself. She left a note in her house, &quot;No one To give you this brain, it took millions You can just dismiss it with one word, evolution, but isn't it? So much has happened. Wrong things So much has happened to get you to this place This is the tragedy, that the best things that you turns against you, no god or devil can save you. Sadhguru: If your intelligence turns against Simply, the fundamental mistake is, you're Once you start that process, madness has others will go on slowly. Because people think People think it's normal to They're looking for that kind of company, if your mind creates something that you don't start poking at your eyeballs. You crazy or no? Hello? Sadhguru: So, if your hand does it, you can see Your mind is poking you from inside. Why can't Whether you will mature or not, depends on various wants to meet the best human being on the planet, They want to meet that person Layne Beachley: I'm just thinking about a lot of what stops us from accepting the responsibility or and the limitless nature of our being, is We allow external circumstances to dictate the coming through the professional surfing ranks I was a victim. My poor performance and my results or the conditions on my board. And then I realized suffering was me and Sadhguru: So even surfing causes Layne Beachley: Surfing and suffering, Sadhguru: I thought it's a fun thing. Layne Beachley: It is, yeah. Unless your brain And then I realized that I had to change and and visualization and all those beautiful things. I still felt uncomfortable. And I went and did something called a rebirthing, which is literally lying on a cyclical cycle of the breath for 45 minutes. and rejection due to being adopted at birth. Now, well, same age, not the same time because you're that you found yourself Sadhguru: Only by one year! Layne Beachley: Oh yeah. Ouch! Same time that you found yourself on contemplation experienced that explosion of exuberance and we can't all find a contemplation rock, but instantly connect with very quickly because it's because it creates that sense of comfort and control. to the positive process of the centeredness and So we stop being the victim, and we stop projecting, refer to in Inner Engineering means Sadhguru: Whoa... Well, this word... Sadhguru: This word &quot;rebirthing&quot; comes from a term an enlightened being is always referred Once you're born of your mother, which was not your consciously, which is your doing. If you're b... be willing to die the way you are. If you don't die, how means it's silly, isn't it? I died in some way. So, it comes So, the important thing is this, that human because their source of happiness is elsewhere. Somebody Now, there is no end to this because you 100 percent in your control. Every small thing see that is a competence issue. Even if you did not become Becoming a champion is a question of competence, I keep repeating this word because the word which is a very wrong thing. Devotion means Whether it is sport, art, music, spirituality, business, you will not do anything significant. Mediocre but you won't do anything significant. To simply of devotion. Hello? Layne Beachley: Yes. Sadhguru: Simply kid stuff, but to do it well, it takes Anybody can do little bit, but to do it in a certain to hit a silly sitting ball in a golf game? Do you think I keep telling them, &quot;If you can't hit a sitting So... But to hit a sitting ball properly Simply to hit it any way, you can, but to get to that takes devotion. It will not happen with Why I'm saying this, that religion has hijacked going to a temple or church or some place like in this world without being devoted to what they're this whole movement is a movement from religion means responsibility is up there. Responsibility You must make up your mind because you're everything is done by god, let me see you leave leave your safe unlocked, throw your money on he will give it to you. Otherwise he will what doesn't work belongs to him. I'm saying, and thinking we're doing something very pious or no value at all. There is, but if you're that kind. anything to god. You're trying to make a deal, please, I need one million dollars in the lottery.&quot; Melbourne, wave it at anybody who was on the street, they'll slap you in the face. But you think the source deal with you, ten dollars to a million? What makes if you pay attention, if you a... pay attention to don't want big things, small things - if you pay enough Hello? Participants: Yes. Sadhguru: Sadhguru: But we did not say, &quot;God is intelligence.&quot; We said, &quot;God is compassion,&quot; because you're always creation is brilliance, isn't it? At least if you Obviously you didn't create this nor I created this. brilliant or no? Neither the religious people nor men But we're busy making silly conclusions as to how it this creation is not human-centric - that is is far more important than you. This a handful of soil in Southern India would have over 50 to 75 species of organisms. They are in your body 60 percent or more of it is just If they freak, you're finished. This is what is species of organisms are going extinct every year. then hardware will collapse. We are heading that are little more sturdy. Those who are not, better than ever before, in terms of comforts and Hundred years ago, how people were living, how we are comfort and convenience. But, why so many people are There are many other sociological reasons, that's reasons overnight. Hello? You cannot. You can But there are some things we can fix. This is What we cannot do, we dream about it. You need if you conduct your body well, you will be healthy. If If you conduct your surroundings well, you things will happen to you. You This happened in Tennessee. You know, our center So, there was a very pious religious man who went And he was always very poor. He prayed and prayed, He prayed and prayed and bought tickets and When he went there, he sought appointment with &quot;Oh, Holy Father, why did you keep me so poor I did all the right things. But my neighbor, he's an what not! But he is well-to-do. Everything &quot;He doesn't bore me through the day like you.&quot; So, This doesn't mean you created the creation. No, but isn't it? Hello? Sadhguru: Management is still your... yours. everything that works - here, is not going to work! Layne Beachley: Oh! I've been to India. Sadhguru: Maybe Questioner: Namaskaram Sadhguru and...you've Sadhguru: I'm sorry if I spoke too much. Questioner: You've spoken about a few quite a difficult place to live. And I wondered how difficulties in the future? Sadhguru: See, I don't like any kind of predictions Predictions are not taking into consideration what is and decide, &quot;In Melbourne, we're not going to Participants: Yes! Sadhguru: So, this is what is needed. We sit around and Of course, it'll happen! Because we're talking will be the way we make it today. If there is a this year we are launching what is called as &quot;Miracle people to practice in a matter of 18 to 24 What this is about is, minimum 15 minutes, a simple planet, if they close their eyes for 15 minutes varieties of things we'll offer - some are music-oriented, variety of things - something you if you commit, you could bring about a change, till they get into a mess. We're offering a major brands in the world, where... I'm saying Layne Beachley: Adidas, okay, let's go with if you do 90 days of inner work upon yourself, I'm not saying this is the f... number but some number Let us say, some car like Toyota will give you ten Honda. Now, they're nudging you to buy a Toyota this is a business deal for them, to bring loyalty So, if you're over 18 years of age and below 30 years If you're over 30 years of age, if you do it for just an add-on but the biggest reward is you're mentally While the microphones move around, I had a question Sadhguru: Yeah... I thought I'll read a poem for you. Sadhguru: Yeah. Sadhguru: Because you asked me the first Layne Beachley: That's true. Sadhguru: This is a... It's titled as &quot;In Love.&quot; The beautiful weed-covered pond As I gaze at this seemingly still surface in search of sunlight or air, I do not know. in search of sunlight or air, I do not know. for light and life, spectacular sight of spirit. for light and life, spectacular sight of spirit. But the sound, it shattered my heart into a million it shattered my heart into a million pieces I do not know who I love or don't, You have a question, do you? Layne Beachley: Well, it was to the question... Layne Beachley: The words &quot;I do not know&quot; question to you is what do you not know? Sadhguru: See, if you look at anything on because we can consult Google, and we know Galaxy ten million light years. It helps in a... in a tea nor your friend is going to go and check out Layne Beachley: What difference? But if you look deep enough, you can't know one how profound is your vision? So, if you look deep We don't know a single atom. With all this scientific We know how to use it, break it, fuse it, but we The more you don't Layne Beachley: Beautifully Questioner: Namaste. Namaste, Sadhguruji, prepare your mind for the certainty of death, we all know is real, but to come to terms with it, during how does one live with that fact? Sadhguru: See, the biggest problem with most They don't know this will die. You know those Right now, we can say we're living, or we can Right now, we're dying. The process will be but we know we're dying. If you know you're this language, it is dying. It doesn't matter still it's dying, isn't it so? If you pay enough out of death, you must pay little more attention to the And everything in the body is programmed and And that's what you want to prepare, I understand. knows it's dying and it's preparing for it. And Layne Beachley: Yeah, I need to capture that. Layne Beachley: That moment! Sadhguru: So, you know, this... this three weeks before the pandemic - there a re... editing process for almost eight years! Usually, taking limitless amount of time, and they one more question, one more question. Then I said, Then in February 2020, I said, &quot;It must be published some more work. We need to do... We need to do this, They said, &quot;Why? We've waited so long. Some three days with us, we'll put it together.&quot; I said, The book got published and pandemic broke out and that, you know, especially Western societies have No, no everybody should know that we're mortal. it's a limited amount of time. If you know it's a limited If you think you're immortal, you'd live a Sadhguru: So, &quot;How do I prepare?&quot; See, when they will get paranoid, because you must is going to go, right now. Your body is going emotions are going to go, your personality is going your job, everything will go. So when just an empty space seems fearful. You can't prepare share something which happened. You know, when for some reason my mother was unwell. And... nearly two years maybe, little less that two years. and she was an exuberant, joyful, loving human being. I became her buddy. So, she took care of me came back, but we maintained that relationship, exuberant, loving human being. Everything in her the usual things - the boys went to America, girls Indian dream happened. Small aberrations, When he... she was 69 years of age, she got &quot;She has just a few months left.&quot; She lost it. exuberant human being. Suddenly she lost it, Then I saw, this is what spiritual process physical and psychological space, there is another suddenly losing the body, losing the mind is If you don't have that, then suddenly everything So, this needs to happen. As a part of this, &quot;One Drop Spirituality,&quot; everybody must have atleast you know, enlightened and knowledgeable than the body must be with you, always. If that you become desperate, and Layne Beachley: Thank Questioner: It might be a little bit of a long and at the same time, that we're capable about... and make the world around us the way that we surrendering to what is in self acceptance, even from us that could also create inner conflict. So, like to know your view on how to keep that and also being able to, you know, achieve Sadhguru: See, these are all words that have been used How many of you are really capable of surrendering Please tell me frankly, be truthful about this. things that you cannot do? You're not willing it's a waste of time. But, you can transform the way you conduct your life, the way you We can transform that. Sadhguru: I'm sure you taught many people, who don't Layne Beachley: Yeah. Sadhguru: All right? they have trouble, but you can train them, you the way you feel, the way you conduct yourself But, surrender is a... simply a big word without and even if you try, you're not able to do. That's a This is a fact with most human beings. See, these certain context. When you use it out of context, Yogis who have completely... they don't even eat... In a way, a child has surrendered to you, you can something that they want, they will bite you. Hello, I'm asking you? Sadhguru: Ah, those little guys are not simply this itself is a bad idea, isn't it? If you maybe there are moments when you almost don't but I would leave it without calling it anything. nonsense was not active. It happens when you're Sadhguru: When you're kicking a ball, it happens. if you're capable, it can just happen sitting but if I close my door - some days, four or five I don't even look out of the window. Four, five days Because being alive is a far bigger The life process is far bigger than your and maybe you got a PhD, I don't know, you think See, right now, today, just I'm informing you... no major accidents in the many billions of galaxies. major accident, everything is flowing smoothly and everything is going well. In this solar system everything is going fine. So, everything in the and you have one nasty thought in your head and you Hello? In this limitless cosmos, everything is and you think it's a bad day. The problem is, you this planet is a tiny speck. Hello? Sadhguru: Australia is a super micro speck. In In that you're a big man. This is not a So, you have to get the perspective, you're you, me and everybody disappears, everything Sadhguru: ...in the creation. Our life matters perspective, we'll do all wrong things Layne Beachley: True that. So, to respect and my last question for you is you've instilled tonight. What is the one most important thing Sadhguru: What they should do? Layne Beachley: Hmm! I know Sadhguru: They must know that &quot;in&quot; is the is up to them. If they need help, we can offer, &quot;in&quot; is the only way out. Layne Beachley: And so, with that, you say it's a homecoming. And I would like to thank for bringing us all home. Sadhguru: Thank you.