It's time we talked about loop quantum gravity. What exactly is it? What are the loops? And can it really defeat string theory in The holy grail of physics is to connect our understanding of the tiny scales of atoms and subatomic planets, galaxies, and the entire universe. To connect quantum physics with Einstein's Our search for a theory of quantum gravity a bit already, including what's But string theory isn't the only game in There may be another way to reconcile the way to a theory of quantum gravity that avoids strings made of coiled up extra dimensions. That other way would be loop quantum gravity, Back in the day we talked about why combining was so hard. For example, there's the fact that general breaks down when we think about the extreme But there are more fundamental conflicts: Now, I'll mention the problem of time briefly in a little bit, background independence thing because this is what really inspired the invention of loop quantum gravity. So what is it? Quantum mechanics, and indeed most theories how stuff moves around, exerts force, etc. Like actors on a stage, where the actors are the stage is the coordinates of space and In quantum mechanics that stage is flat and It requires some giant hacks to even attempt In short: quantum mechanics is NOT background General relativity, on the other hand, has what its equations do - they change the background. They describe how the presence of mass and Our background coordinate system itself becomes More precisely, the metric - the object encapsulating - evolves in the equations of GR. So those background. In string theory, a type of background independence and with that comes a gravitational field. But for that to work first you need those they do. Loop quantum gravity tries to quantize general preserving the background independence already But why is quantizing general relativity so The challenge really gets us to the fundamentals So just quickly, let's review all of quantum In classical physics, we have variables like expressions that represent the observable trying to describe. Some of these - say, position and time - also But in quantum mechanics, things aren't Certain properties have an in-built uncertainty Absent measurement, they exist in a fuzzy In the first formulations of quantum mechanics, of possible positions and momenta of, say, These can then be resolved into concrete, with so-called position and momentum operators. The wavefunction and operators are fundamentally After all, the position and momentum of quantum a spatial coordinate system and the change That makes it highly background dependent. There are other ways to formulate quantum these ultimately have the same issue But it gets worse actually. In quantum mechanics, time is treated completely there is no "time wavefunction" or "time operator". This is completely at odds with general relativity, This is the "problem of time" that I mentioned, A quantum theory of gravity needs to fix both on background independence for now. The equations of quantum mechanics let you - like its position or momentum - relative The equations of general relativity let you system itself, encapsulated in the metric. So maybe instead of thinking about the quantum think about the quantum fuzziness of the metric And instead of an equation that describes an object in spacetime, maybe there's an of the geometry of space. Well, there is - or at least an attempt at one. It's called the Wheeler-deWitt equation, ADM starts by defining this abstract space slices cut out of 4-D spacetime. It then gives a sort of equation of motion You can imagine a funky coordinate system space of metrics. As you move through this coordinate system, You can also imagine analogies of the position So the Wheeler-deWitt equation quantizes these - turns The result is a quantum equation for the fabric A contender for a theory of quantum gravity. The Wheeler-deWitt equation was promising, Which makes it not so useful, and impossible So perhaps this whole path of using abstract haven't gone down it far enough. That's what loop quantum gravity does - it - past our space of metrics into a space of And these connections are going to give us Connections are mathematical functions that as it moves between two points in a space. We saw an example way back in the day when As you move the base of a vector along a path And the amount of rotation encodes information If connections contain all the information spacetime with these connections instead of In the 1950s Einstein himself tried to rewrite transport vector connections, but the result The breakthrough came in the 80s when Abey one in which you parallel transport not a thing that also represents a quantum of angular Ashketar rewrote general relativity in terms now known as Ashketar variables. In this formalism, the "space of metrics" quantum field theory. Quantized gravity suddenly looked to be in And now we get to the loops of loop quantum Lee Smolin and Carlo Rovelli realized they by representing spatial metrics using Ashketar's But they needed one more trick - one layer They evaluated these connections over closed itself. They realized it was possible to define any of these closed loops, with each loop like So now you have a space of loops with which space of loops can be quantized rather neatly, After all, there IS no background until these The result, of course, is loop quantum gravity. It's general relativity - our modern theory building blocks. Not with chunks of spacetime but with quantum 3-D space can be sort of woven from these - which is a concept too abstract for even But the resulting 3-D space looks normal on But on the tiniest of scales - the Planck At the nexuses of this weave you have quantized space - connected by quantized area faces But even that description is too space-like - probably doesn't resemble anything intuitive at all. The big success of loop quantum gravity is and quantum mechanics in their currently accepted forms, without taking away their most important foundational principles. And without adding big assumptions - like or supersymmetry. The theory has some other successes, for example, and black hole entropy consistent with Hawking However there are also many who identify serious, While LQG has background independence it's not actually clear that this independence extends And connected to this, LQG doesn't solve More generally, for this theory to be successful general relativity on large, non-quantum scales But it's not clear that it can do that. This is still a hotly debated topic. Some researchers think that the method and criticisms and shortcomings can be resolved and extensions to the existing formalism. Others argue that the problems are fundamental will resolve them. A lot more exploration is needed on the theoretical But what about experiments? Surprisingly, some experiments have actually Loop quantum gravity seems to predict that on the energy of the photon, with, for example, slower than low energy radio waves due to of a loop quantum gravity spacetime. This was tested in 2009 by looking for differences gamma ray burst nearly a billion light years away. If there was any difference it was barely loop quantum gravity. Loop quantum gravity is an intriguing alternative Both currently live deep in their respective make experimental contact with the real universe. But the mathematics have yielded intriguing - and that nature is very weird. One way or another, we live in a seriously As always, a huge thanks to our Patreon contributors. Your help makes an enormous difference. Today I want to give an extra special level supporter. David, we already spent all of your money broke our brains. Honestly, we can't thank you enough. Though it does still hurt a bit. Now, last time we talked about Black Hole Harmonics, David Bennack likes the idea of gravitational But first the context: this year LIGO detected of each other and in similar patches of the Now, it's really really really hard to come up with a colliding at the same time in the same general An alternative possibility is that it was wave from it was deflected by a galaxy or lensed so as to arrive via two separate paths If those paths were different lengths we'd We do see this effect in the light from gravitationally Gravitational waves should be lensed in the But in the case of this particular example it's don't look like they were from quite the same enough not to have been the same source. Still, we'll probably see a lensed gravitational I talked about the maximum rate of spin of asks how fast is that maximum rate? So there's a limit to the rotation of a black centrifugal force of rotation partially counters if you'll forgive my crude Newtonian speak. If the black hole rotates more than a certain exposing the singularity to the universe - or density ring. Such naked singularities are expected to be rate for black holes. The details of all I'll leave it at that. A few of you asked a really on-point question: and if can have waves, that means it must stretching. So just how resilient is the fabric of spacetime? Well, the answer lies in the Einstein field equation That equation says that the amount stretching and energy contained by that spacetime. The constant of proportionality can be thought the resistance to stretching. The smaller the number, the more energy is And that constant is very, very small - 2 Spacetime is a very, very stiff fabric. A few of you noticed we missed a huge opportunity Especially given that I kept saying a struck black I had a hunch someone would notice that. Notre Damn.