His name and fine dining go hand in hand. He was the first chef to have 3 restaurants Today, he is the second most decorated Who is it? The great Alain Ducasse. His restaurant empire now spans the Can one man have this many Yes. Can he be at all of them at the same time? Obviously not. The question is: With so many restaurants, is it possible to Or is it just his name slapped on the sign? Find out in this episode of Alexander the Guest. The story starts here, at one of The iconic Dorchester. East of Hyde Park in London's Mayfair district. Since its opening in 1931, The Dorchester has been Today it's owned by a parent company They own and operate 10 luxury including the world-famous Beverly Hills Hotel. We arrive at the historic address. 53 Park Lane. The first thing we see is this. The Dorchester Sphere. It was commissioned in 2022 and marks reminding us of her service to the country. Next to it, a Ferrari SF90 Stradale That close by is the pinnacle of luxury. The point gets driven home It's bright, beautiful and brand new. The renovations finished in 2023. Getting a facelift was the Adding to the beauty are that were specially created Also new is the 007 inspired Vesper Bar. It's in honor of Ian Flemming, the Flemming was a fixture at the Dorchester The Vesper Bar is named after the first Bond girl. Vesper Lynd. She was the double agent in Flemmings In the book, Bond invents a martini Why Vesper? As Bond says "Once you have tasted Inside the restaurant, we But the difference in the The style feels old, but it does have character. When this space was renovated in 2020, It's a look that pairs the nature A lot of wood and mushroom-like colors, and We can also see green leaves Although the lobby is full of This is by design. Chef Ducasse does not allow flowers on They distract our senses In the center of the restaurant It's called the &quot;Table Lumiere&quot; and the waterfall effect is made by Inside it is a table for six. With a thin white curtain for privacy that allows guests at the table to see First to the table - just the man I want to see. This is Martin, the head sommelier. He was second in the Taittinger UK Here is a guy who knows what he's doing. He starts us off with a Dom Perignon oh nine rose. Here, at Alain Ducasse, they proudly Dom Perignon was launched in 1936 as the first In 2022 they sold over 5 million bottles, making Dom Perignon the world's 7th It's time to find out about the menu. This is award-winning Restaurant She has been recognized by the with an Award of Excellence in service. She gives us the menu options. A la carte or a tasting menu. There is a Vegetarian 7 course menu for 300 euro And the one we choose. The standard 7 course menu for 335 euro The main course is pigeon and one of the Marion suggests wagyu beef. Sounds so good, we ask for both. Martin is back with the wine list. There are 3 wine pairings ranging from 170 to 585 euro As soon as see a Krug 163 Just to make it clear, I'm But you can sponsor me. So hit that button. The subscribe button. Thank you! Instead of a pairing, we are going freestyle Appetisers, coming up. Fried ravioli with swiss chard. A multi-seed cracker. and a Scottish lobster roll. This was the winner with really exciting flavors. Martin tells us that Alain Not in the kitchen, but as a guest, like us. If not Ducasse, then who is That would be Executive The 44 year old has been working His first role was at Spoon Then he went to Le Louis the fifteenth in Monaco. We did an episode on Le Louis last year. If you haven't seen it, it's one of the most Chef Jean-Philippe then bounced around Asia In 2016, he was tapped to Ducasse's name is above the door, but he gives the spotlight to the Although Ducasses' fingerprints Chef Blondet has the freedom to Always constant are top quality ingredients, cooking what's in season, and Our first course makes a makes a grand entrance. Orkney scallop in a citrus beurre blanc Personally, I'm not a fan of the Presentation aside, this dish Second course is roasted eggplant, Smoky, elegant acidity and a nice crunch. Martin is back with some unexpected They are fans of this channel, and they send over 3 glasses of What an elegant gesture. In return, I send over some of our Krug, and we wave to each other across the restaurant. It was a lot of fun. Speaking of fun, next week I will be in California Want an inside look at my experience in real time? Follow my trip by following me on Instagram. Our next course is iconic. This is called a saute gourmand. It's lobster, truffled chicken Fresh, airy, light sauce. Loved the mushroom. Fantastic. The service so far, has been excellent. They seem to know exactly what style They know how to joke around, but when it Then, guess who arrives? The man, the myth, the legend. Alain Ducasse. He's best known for his 34 restaurants but Ducasse also has his From chocolate and coffee shops there are a total of 79 Ducasse On top of all this, the sixty six year old also runs a think tank looking at new He is a visionary and a living icon. The next dish is cornish turbot with sea thong and apricot. This fish and these flavors? Beautiful. Martin prepares us for the It's pigeon from Anjou, crapaudine And this wasabi is freshly grated for us. The sauce is made with pigeon heart and liver. I definitely would not enter it in But the taste was fantastic. Really. I would do this course again just for the sauce. With one more main course to This is a 2018 from Cote Rotie The Wagyu arrives Wagyu translates to Japanese cow in English. But it's important to know that To keep track, they made a system that F1 means 50% wagyu F2 is 75%, F3 is 87.5% and the highest is F4 with over 93% wagyu. The more wagyu it is, the better it's said to be. And of course, more expensive. Tonight our wagyu is F2. And they've prepared two different cuts for us. The fillet and the Bavette or bottom sirloin. Both and served medium rare with a perfect sear. If there is a steak nirvana, To go with the beef we have a chef signature. A cookpot of seasonal fruit and vegetables Finished with an olive oil and herb sauce. On the outside, a puff Everything here is next level. With the main courses down, it's Starting with Graham's single harvest tawny port. It's dense and smooth. Close behind is an assortment of fresh cheese. We also have a Colston basset stilton This is one of the last hand-ladled It's intensely rich and creamy. We finish the meal with baked figs with a fig leaf sorbet and a tarragon pesto. Although it's sweet, it does not make my eyes pop, but it's good to taste a Finally the classic Ducasse rum baba. We have seen this before at Le Louis as well. The story goes that this dessert is what But there is still the petit fours. An assortment of Ducasse chocolates. and that's me done. Our total for today. Just over 3500 euro. Is it possible to maintain the quality of Many fail. But in this case, The answer is yes. Because his restaurants are so much The name alone is not enough. It must be filled with qualified, All of which are hard to find. The executive chef is probably one of the keys. They need to be exceptional. As is the case here. Ducasse's restaurants are a product that Ducasse has worked his whole life to achieve. This is not just a Ducasse restaurant, it's his legacy and his heritage. And that does it for this episode. Thank you for joining me. If you like this video, hit subscribe. See you next time.