It was about 25 years ago in my life that original title of that little book was Focus You've probably never seen it; it didn't last It came out in another edition with another was Why I Trust The Bible . It was 1983. And as I was preparing to write that book what the first one was about as well, I had Bible. What was it about the truth of Scripture that Was I smarter than everybody else? Had I been presented a more powerful set of And certainly such can be presented. Why did I have such immense confidence in I can remember, in my college days, when very event, when I found my greatest joy on a football in the Word of God. I actually couldn't wait to get to seminary. And when I decided that I would give up an level to go off to seminary, some of my athletes, the reason. And it really wasn't that I had a drive to I had this compelling longing to dig into because I was unequivocally committed to its Where did that come from? Why was I so convinced of the truth of Scripture? I hadn't studied apologetics or defenses of I hadn't read a lot of that. There was just, in my heart, a complete commitment And when I sat down to think about why I trusted that came into play. I remembered that Jesus had said to Peter this to you, but My Father who is in heaven.&quot; And that the reason that Peter knew that Jesus of divine disclosure, divine revelation. And then I looked at 1 Corinthians chapter that Jesus is Lord except by the Spirit of It is reasonable to me to say that Jesus is It is reasonable to me to say Jesus is Lord. But no one can say that, as reasonable as discloses it and the Spirit reveals it. I was also drawn to John chapter 6 where Jesus says, &quot;went away.&quot; And He said to those that stayed, &quot;Will you And out of the mouth of Peter on behalf of we go? You and You alone have the words of eternal Another massive affirmation that what the It had been, again, Jesus says given Him of Jesus even says in that passage, &quot;Have not And then I was reminded...and I might ask 8. In very clear terms we read this in verse &quot;For those who are according to the flesh life, spiritually dead, blind, bankrupt - &quot;those on the things of the flesh, but those who the Spirit.&quot; You have two mutually exclusive dimensions. The mind set on the flesh, verse 6, is death. The mind set on the Spirit is life and peace. Verse 7, &quot;The mind set on the flesh is hostile And then this, &quot;It does not subject itself to do so. And those who are in the flesh cannot please If you're in the flesh, you can't please God. It would please God if you believed the Bible. In fact, that would be at the top of God's It would please God if you believed the gospel. That would also be on the top of the list It would please God if you affirmed the deity That would please God. Those three things would be the top of God's And the fact of the matter is, if you are You can't please Him at the lowest level, So how is it then that I came to have such I was reminded again of Ephesians chapter in a different way. Verse 17 of Ephesians 4, &quot;I say therefore walk no longer just as the Gentiles also walk in their understanding, excluded from the is in them, because of the hardness of their Now that litany of descriptions is intended inescapable spot for the unregenerate apart And so I concluded that by the normal means I could not have come to this confidence in That the only way that I could come to this given it to me as a gift, that God in His the gospel, to believe in Christ and to embrace Scripture. And so, in 1983, when I put out the second The Bible , this is what I wrote. &quot;Unbelievers cannot accept legitimate proof The natural man receives not the things of to him, neither can he know them because they 2:14 - &quot;only as the Holy Spirit does His regenerating of blindness, gives life and plants the understanding that the Bible is the Word of God and trust I know the Bible is true because the Spirit I wrote that 25-plus years ago. In light of this, I said in the next paragraph...and yourself. &quot;In light of this I suggest a change in our We have been saying prophecy has been fulfilled, were performed with eyewitnesses, the biblical Christ results in a revolutionary change in Because of all these proofs, we reason the And then I wrote, &quot;Instead, I propose that prophecy has been fulfilled, miracles have and lives have been transformed.&quot; Confidence in Scripture begins with the work I believe the Bible was written by the God I believe the Bible is the only authoritative with regard to the origin of man, his deliverance, he is to live by, and his ultimate destiny. I also believe that the Bible is true in every manuscripts. God was the author. And I concluded with this, &quot;The Spirit has Now for me that was a really significant discovery. And, later in my life, I was exposed to some named John Calvin. And being curious about what he believed in some very interesting things. Listen to John Calvin. &quot;The Scriptures alone exist as the means by truth to perpetual remembrance. The full authority, which they obtain with than that they are persuaded that they, the as if God had been heard giving utterance This he says in his Institutes . He further says, &quot;The Scriptures themselves We are never established in the faith of this that God is the author. Being illuminated therefore by Him - &quot; that either on our own judgment or that of others surpasses human judgment we are perfectly of men from the very mouth of God. We feel the firmest conviction that we hold Well Calvin got it right. We're not surprised, are we? William Niesel said that Calvin considers ineffectual thing for us if it is not divinely it is separated from Him - &quot; that is, Christ soul.&quot; He understood that you only believe the Scripture faith and confidence. Confident trust in the Word of God and the arguments and the work of human intellect It is the work of the Spirit in the heart. Calvin further says, &quot;For as God alone is Word, so also the Word will never gain credit the internal testimony of the Spirit. It is necessary, therefore, that the same penetrate into our hearts in order that He what had been divinely entrusted to them.&quot; So he says, &quot;Let it remain then a fixed truth firmly acquiesce to the Scripture.&quot; Our confidence in the Word of God comes from It is a component of the sovereign gift of Traditional approaches have been to try to amassing all kinds of evidences that they in the futility of their mental function and of their mind and the hardness of their heart soul. We can amass all the prophetic evidences, historical archeological evidence, the evidences And in the end, while certainly all of those Scripture, they cannot take the scales off dead soul. The Scripture tells us how this works in one Open your Bible to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. There is too much here for me to say in one And since I'm not going to be here to say version of this. I do well to cover a verse, let alone two But I do want you to look, beginning in chapter 2. And we'll touch lightly on these truths while point. The theme of the section starting in chapter 2 is divine wisdom, divine wisdom. The word &quot;wise&quot; or &quot;wisdom&quot; appears 20 times which appears about a half a dozen times. This is about divine wisdom. And the whole section explains why people accept the wisdom of God; why people reject people accept the Scripture, the gospel and In fact, there are some phrases here, &quot;the even &quot;the testimony of God.&quot; But whether you're talking about the wisdom of God, you're talking about the divine revelation This is the theme. Now the simple way to break this up is to and recycle and restate things. But, nonetheless, two sections are somewhat Section number one, why non-Christians reject Section number two, why Christians accept Why non-Christians reject the Bible and why And I will tell you at the outset, nothing human reason, nothing is said about how to emotions. This is not about evidences. This is not about reason. This is not about emotion. This is about condition. This is about the condition of a non-Christian Let's look, first of all, at why non-Christians And I'll give you five reasons, which are First of all, the message is unreasonable. That's the first cause for them to disbelieve. It is unreasonable. Verse 18, &quot;The Word of the cross - &quot; or the That is to say the revelation of God inscripturated is their condition - &quot;foolishness.&quot; It is foolishness.&quot; In a somewhat sarcastic way, that idea is through the foolishness of the message.&quot; Verse 23 says to the Gentiles, &quot;It is foolishness.&quot; And then in another sarcastic way in verse than men.&quot; And so, clearly, there is this idea that the It is...the word is moron, moronic, stupid, They treat the Word of God with contempt and And I won't go into all the details about the Gentiles and, equally, if not more ridiculous Salvation by faith in a crucified God was The whole thing was frankly unreasonable. Secondly, non-Christians do not believe the but because the reality is unattainable. You heard a couple of times in the baptisms died, but I couldn't connect why or how that Or you heard someone say, &quot;I grew up in the in my mind, and I wasn't sure how it all came And that's essentially the idea here. It just doesn't make sense to those who are Verse 19, &quot;It is written, 'I will destroy of the clever I will set aside. Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the For since in the wisdom of God - &quot; that is its wisdom did not come to know God.&quot; In the fall, God cast the human race into of human wisdom to come to know God. You can't get there on your own. And God designed it that way. &quot;I will destroy the wisdom of the wise - &quot; He clever. I will turn the wisdom of this world in the I will because it pleases Me cause that no that worldly wisdom come to know Me.&quot; In verse 19 he's quoting from Isaiah 29:14, that. Isaiah had said at that time, Isaiah 29, that to attack and pillage and plunder Judah, Isaiah it will not come by the wisdom of the leaders, their cunning secretive treachery that was by human ingenuity but because of the power God would step in and deliver His people. The wisdom of the wise couldn't save them. The cleverness of the clever couldn't do it. Only God could do it. And as if to say, &quot;So where is the wise man Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Line them all up, line the...the literate, And by the way, verse 20 alludes both to Isaiah counselors of Egypt who were turned into absolute And then the scribes of the Assyrians, who spoils they were going to get when they came fools because God intervened. Where are the disputers, the debaters, the Line them all up. And it pleases God by means of all their intellects they cannot come to know Him. In the wisdom of God, God made it impossible own. You cannot get there from here unaided. You cannot get to a confidence in the Word cross, the word of divine testimony. So, people don't believe because it is foolish, Thirdly, because it is frankly unbelievable, Verse 22, &quot;They - &quot; the Jews - &quot;seek for signs. The Greeks for wisdom.&quot; The Jews were looking for signs. You say, &quot;Wait a minute. Jesus gave them signs and signs and signs Yeah, but they wanted the big sign. Knock off the Romans, set up the Kingdom, Davidic Covenant. And when He started talking about His death, Crucifixion came to the Lord Jesus because because He didn't display His power against scheme. And then even on the cross they said, &quot;Why Maybe there was a last hope that He would But the crucifixion of God? The crucifixion of the Messiah by the Romans? Unthinkable. On the other hand, the Greeks, they sought And what does that mean? They sought intricate, complicated, profound, esoteric concepts. And they laughed at the simplicity of the God was to be worshiped. That's why there is to this day a stone in And it's a reflection of an ancient view of his god.&quot; And the interesting thing about it is, jackass Who would worship a jackass on a cross? It is frankly unbelievable. Number four, its people are unremarkable. Its people are unremarkable. The Jews wanted a sign; the Greeks wanted Paul preached Christ crucified. The Jews stumbled over it. The Gentiles said it was foolish. Verse 26 doesn't help. &quot;Consider your calling, brethren, there were many mighty, not many noble.&quot; Bottom line here is we're not too impressive. They weren't then and we aren't now. The majority of believers have always been They have always been unimpressive to the who...who treat us with contempt. We're not the smartest and we're not the noblest. In fact, verse 27, &quot;God has chosen the foolish He has chosen the weak to shame the strong. He has chosen the base and the despised and It just keeps getting lower and lower and He chose not the wise. He chose not the noble. Not wise, not the intellectual elite, not the movers, the shakers, the powerful, not It's actually a Greek word that means wellborn, &quot;But He's chosen foolish, weak, base, agenes the John Does, the insignificant, and the And then it goes down even lower than that. &quot;The things that are not - &quot; the present participle That, by the way, that last statement that 28, is the most contemptible expression in to treat them as if they did not even exist. So, they don't believe. And the fact that we are such an unremarkable And then a fifth. Not only are the people of this book unremarkable, And I could have thought of a lot of words Unfashionable. Come in to chapter 2, &quot;When I came to you, speech or of wisdom.&quot; And that was a problem because they loved mazelike teaching that brought in all kinds their minds. &quot;I didn't come with superiority of speech, I'm determined to know nothing among you except There again is this repulsive, unbelievable, Furthermore, he didn't help his cause any You remember the Corinthians said about him And his speech was unimpressive. He was with you in weakness, fear, much trembling. My message, my preaching were not in persuasive Spirit and power. So you have a pretty...a pretty comprehensive You start with the fact that they can't, that are void of the life of God. They can't escape the natural. They can't escape being in the flesh. And one who is in the flesh minds only the And he cannot know the things of the Spirit, And you add the fact that all of these give of the dilemma of the unregenerate. The message itself was offensive, unreasonable, The people were the lowly, and the preachers fearful and the trembling. And you add the fallen condition, natural And non-believers cannot on their own believe So the search for God and the search for Christ to discern whether the Bible is really true with human reason. That's why every time you see one of these Jesus,&quot; &quot;The Search for the Truth,&quot; it always Fallen mind can't get there on its own. That's why non-Christians don't believe the Now let's ask the second question. Why do Christians believe the Bible? In spite of all of this, go to verse 6 in We'll spend a few minutes on this latter part. &quot;Yet - &quot; that's a key word there, you ought of what the world thinks about this, yet we ; teleiois - &quot; actually, plural. &quot;Among those who are teleiois - &quot; What is Well, who have been made complete. It's just a way to describe believers. We speak wisdom, understood, comprehended, been made complete. We have come to Christ. &quot;We have come to the one - &quot; Paul says to treasures of wisdom and knowledge.&quot; It isn't that we're more intelligent. It isn't that we have been subjected to greater It is that we have been made complete in Him. Paul says it, &quot;You are complete in Him.&quot; And being made complete or mature in Him, of regeneration and conversion and transformation, in the true and loving God...living God, but And so, verse 6 says, &quot;We do speak wisdom.&quot; Paul saying, &quot;We&quot; in an apostolic plural. &quot;We do speak wisdom among those who are mature, the rulers of this age.&quot; This is a wisdom that I've just been telling minds, the greatest of this world's leaders. &quot;We speak - &quot; verse 7 - &quot;God's wisdom in a How in the world did we get to know it? Oh, read the rest of the line. &quot;Which God - &quot; what's that next word? - &quot;predestined before the ages to our glory.&quot; Why do I understand the Bible? Because God what? Predestined me to understand it for my own You say, &quot;Oh, do you believe in predestination? I believe in the Bible and the Bible tells of God is because God predestined me to eternal gave me faith in His Son, in the gospel and Does that mean that I'm now in a situation not reasonable? Oh no. Everything in it is reasonable. Its prophecies are fulfilled. Its miracles are true and attested to. It is scientifically flawless and accurate. Its history and archeology is verifiable down But it's not that that convinces my natural It is that because God has given me faith true. Another way to view it, at this point, might 1 John chapter 2, just to give you a little Sometimes people hang around the church for Verse 19 describes them, &quot;They went out from religious experience, Christian experience. &quot;They went out from us.&quot; &quot;Yeah, you know, so-and-so used to come here, showed up at church. Don't see them anymore, what happened?&quot; &quot;Well they went out from us, but they were us they would have remained with us, but they are all not of us.&quot; They went out, they left and it proves they &quot;But - &quot; verse 20, love this - &quot;you have an What do you know? You know what he says in the next verse. &quot;I've not written to you because you do not no lie is of the truth.&quot; That means no lie leads you astray. No lie leads you into apostasy. Why? You know the truth. Why do you know the truth? You have an anointing from God. What is that anointing? Or better, who is that anointing? The Holy Spirit. I believe the Bible because God gave me confidence and regeneration. I stay with the truth. I believe the truth. I embrace the truth. I continue with the truth. I stay involved with the truth because the is and I know a lie when I see one. At the end of that, or near the end of that which you received from Him abides in you.&quot; Wow. This is our security, the ever-present indwelling the truth. He abides in you and you have no need for &quot;But as His anointing teaches you about all as it has taught you, you abide in Him.&quot; That is just a profound subject to understand. When you were saved you came to confidence That's where you stay. And the people who hang around a while and never really belonged and they never had the I believe the Bible because God gave me the gospel and faith in His Word. I continue to... that for my justification. I believe the Bible for my sanctification, continues to lead me into truth and away from That's why I believe the Bible. Now, I understand, as verse 6 says, that this the wisdom of the rulers of this age, the All of that stuff is katargeo . All of it is being rendered ineffective. All of it is impotent. All of it leads nowhere. All of it is really foolish, really foolish. But I believe and you believe because God believe unto glory. And we believe a wisdom, verse 8 says, &quot;which none of them. If they had, they wouldn't have crucified to reject the Lord of glory who was crucified. He sums it up in verse 9 by saying this, a of a couple of passages that are being alluded &quot;Things which eye has not seen, and ear has heart of man, all that God has prepared for We know all that God has for us. We know that. We know it by divine revelation. It can't be known any other way. Eye can't see it and ear can't hear it. And the mind which is in view in the heart God's truth regarding salvation, God's truth unseen, unthought. It cannot be known by empiricism; it cannot It can only be known by divine revelation. In John 8 Jesus said this, and He's talking Jesus said to them in verse 42, John 8, &quot;If Me.&quot; Wow! &quot;But since God's not your Father, you don't from God.&quot; I'm not even come on My own initiative, but Listen to this, &quot;Why do you not understand Why don't people understand? &quot;It's because you cannot hear My word because want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, does truth in him. Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his of lies, but because I speak the truth, you You can't. And He sums it up in verse 47, well, in verse &quot;If I speak the truth, why do you not believe Why don't people believe the truth? &quot;He who is of God hears the words of God. For this reason you do not hear them because Pretty clear, isn't it? Who believes the Bible? Those who are God's. It is a divine work. Go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and we'll thrown in. First Corinthians 2:10. &quot;For to us - &quot; oh, this is such a great point &quot;For to us God revealed them.&quot; Them? What do you mean? &quot;The things that God has prepared for those spiritual and eternal life, the Kingdom.&quot; That is to say all of the wisdom of God, all of God's testimony, all that truth that is To us, God revealed them through the Spirit. That is the critical thing to understand. We believe because God chose, God predestined eternal glory. In drawing this to some kind of conclusion that idea that we know because God chose to to give us life, to take the scales of blindness to bring the truth that was hidden out and and reread starting in verse 24. &quot;To those who are the called.&quot; Anytime you ever see that term, &quot;the called,&quot; is the effectual call to salvation. We are the called, that is called out of darkness In verse 26 he says it again, &quot;Consider your the life-giving call, regeneration. And why us? Verse 27, &quot;God has chosen, God has chosen.&quot; Verse 28, &quot;God has chosen.&quot; Verse 30, &quot;But by His doing you are in Christ Why are you in Christ Jesus? Because you saw how clearly it should be apprehended evidences, because your mind ascended to it. You are in Christ Jesus by His doing. He predestined, He revealed because He chose, And as Paul says in Romans 8, &quot;Whom He called So, back to verse 30, &quot;By His doing you are by His doing you embrace the Word of God in By His doing you are in Christ Jesus - &quot; listen By His doing that we are in Christ. And then Christ became to us -- by His presence -- wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification Why did God do it this way? Why did God do it this way? Verse 29, &quot;That no man should - &quot; What? - &quot;boast Verse 31, &quot;The just as it is written, let And so we are stunned by the confidence that And when somebody says, &quot;Where in the world You can say it is by His doing because He the wisdom of God. And it is our love for God through Christ we believe the truth because we are of God. Martin Luther put it this way, &quot;Man is like a log, or a stone, like a lifeless statue sense nor heart, until he is enlightened, So I didn't invent this. They were reading the same Bible I'm reading You believe the Bible, dear one, and you live life is enraptured by its wonders because predestine you and to choose you and to justify And when He gave you Christ, He gave you, all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. I cannot separate my love for Christ from At the end, skipping down to verse 16, the What a statement. What a statement. In having confidence in the Word of God, we Grab that? It's no mystery to me how God thinks or what All that God wants me to know, He's put here. I have here the mind of Christ, and I know pleases Him and what He loves and what He I understand it all because He has enabled And I live my life embracing the wonder of as this is. Let's bow in prayer. Our Father, we know that the power of evangelism or music or culturally crafted entertainment, The power for edification, in sanctification We are to preach the Scripture, the word of of God. We are to present it, proclaim it, defend means by which you will justify and sanctify Always we must use the Scripture, not so that of it but so that You may awaken the heart through the Word. We thank You, Father, that a life time of is reasonable, it is attainable, understandable, And we know that because You have given us We thank You that You heard the prayer of wondrous things out of Thy Law.&quot; Lord, that prayer has been answered for us Use us, Lord, as instruments in the proclamation saints. Thank You for the privilege of being so used Amen.