Here he took out the boa to show us, what about that? Geez! Look at this huge crocodile head. Wow! [Music] Friends, welcome to one more adventure. Wow, the level of adventure that await for us, I hope you are ready for all that we are about to see. We find ourselves exploring the peruvian amazon jungle, you know it, this time in the city of Iquitos at the neighborhood of Belen, which is one of its largest popular neighborhoods, with a population up to 100 thousand people, we can see that most of the houses are built in height, or floating because here, the level of the the floodable forest and right in this neighborhood is the Belen market, in which you can analyze much of the society of Iquitos. Iquitos a lot of people, more than half a million people live in the city. Is a city that I would say has made me feel in countries like Thailand, India, Cambodia inside Latin America, it gives me a similar feeling, there is a lot of movement person outside of the amazon are mind-blowing, sloth meat, capybaras. Truly animal trafficking, somewhat disturbing but, that in these communities of the Amazon region to call this neighborhood, the neighborhood of Belen, is the Amazon Venice because in effect, see, all the houses are over the water, they have the alleys, see that. Look how the alleys open like this on the water, that's why it has earned this nickname that I think suits very well. The amazonian venice. Iquitos is the second largest city in the Amazon region, Manaus in Brazil being the first and Iquitos in Peru the second and well an adventure awaits us, a surreal journey in which above all we will find ourselves and this I want to make a special emphasis, with the warmth of the people, wow, really how nice the people are here; how receptive they are, they're very open to teach you about what they do, their customs. Truly, I was received in an excellent way and I think almost any traveler will have the same experience. I say &quot;almost&quot; because one or other traveler will get mugged, I'm told that it's a little bit high risk around here but, well let's get into it, let's get to know, let's be surprised once again by the surreal that can be the Amazonian communities. [Music] Hey, wow, really how amazing this panorama is, there's so so many people and a curious fact, a very interesting fact. I'm being told, I'm being communicated that inside the Amazon region we hear about many dangers that if you go swimming you are going to be eaten by piranhas, a crocodile is going to show up and bite you and and an electric eel, and an anaconda, there are many risks in the Amazonian region, however here we encounter another type of risk and is that these waters are the most polluted on this side of the world. Polluted to the level of affluent cities of India, Bangladesh because all the drainage gets here, not only from Iquitos but also from many many Amazonian regions, so who would have thought that one of the greatest dangers in this Amazonian region it's not the animals, it's not the wildlife, it's the damages that the humans themselves, the most dangerous species on the planet, have caused. Now, we're going into the alleys and we can see a little bit of the structure of the houses. As usually happens in these floating communities, we have already visited some on the channel, the bathrooms are outside the houses, they are usually structures outside of the the homes that fall directly into the water, straight into the river. There are some of the locals bringing bananas, here grows a lot of banana and see there, how about that? the alley that connects us to the streets as such. Wow, it's a little bit worrying the state of some of the houses, watch the support of this one is really getting old. How much longer can it hold on like this? [Music] Good, land! Let's explore the bowels of the market. Let's understand that this is a very large about five square kilometers and all the flow, the amount of things that are being sold. See what they sell here, this is called &quot;churo&quot;, which is a snail but, really a giant snail. It's considered a delight , they eat this and they are still alive, in case there's a doubt. Look, look how they're moving. The snails are still alive. Huge, massive. Those, the churos, the snails are eaten in anticuchos, like skewers, also in ceviche or grilled; different ways to enjoy it! And just in case there were doubts, each snail costs 1 sol, which is 30 cents of dollar. The scents tells us we're coming to the animal area. How are you? Good day. See here, the fish, the turtle is also sold. - The turtle, do you eat it here or is it for pet? It's eaten when it's big Ah geez. Look, there it is in case there was doubt. The turtle is eaten when it's big. Here it's the carachama or it's also known as the devil fish, they tell me that with this they make different soups and that it's a very hard fish. Wow. And see here, they have the lizards, but see how they're exposed. Wow. I was telling you, a surreal experience. - Do you sell it by legs, or whole? How do you sell it? - Whole is sold! Wow. Here what they do is they take the guts out and then they sell it like that to cook your soup of crocodile, your stew, whatever you want. Here we found some pana, or piranha, see how big it is. Did you see the video where we caught a piranha? They were not as big as these. These are huge. More amazonian, impossible. Piranhas to make your soup, at the market. Geez! Look at this huge crocodile head. Wooow. For the head, how much? 500 soles. Look at that! It is very impressive and also check the skin, the crocodile skin. Hey this is very shocking and obviously here's the lady sells the chaufa with the crocodile, an Amazonian delicacy. Here she pulled out the boa to show us. How about the boa? How interesting! In fact, these bones that they sell here, are the bones of the snake as such. - The stew you eating, what is it Mrs.? What is it? Lizard? Oh, lizard. Look at it. Geez, look at that! The tacacho! Look at that! How about that? How do you advertise the grilled cocodrile? What do you shout? Crocodile, crocodile! Or how do you do it? - There's lizard! Boa butter Oh geez Ray butter also? Which one is the boa? this one? Boa butter, look at it here. Oh, there it is, eel butter. Wow. And this one is used for cooking or what? Oh ok ok, to have good bones. Oh look, here the bones of the snakes. What a thing, what a thing! And this one, since when do you have this head? Oh it's from yesterday! Fresh! Also the turtles ready for the soup. That's weird, so disturbing. Oh, watch this, also very surreal; this is turtle egg. They sell it boiled This one is raw? This one is raw and this one is boiled. Wow. This one is from taricaya, and this one from charapa. Two different types of turtle. Look, I'm told that this animal is the bush rabbit, I do not know it as such, do you know the bush rabbit? Is very common to eat in here. Deer is also very commonly eaten here. Look here, colloquially called as the sajino. Here we have hoof, of course from deer, take it take it! More lizard, already chopped. This is an evidently larger lizard. The lizard's tail How do you cooke it more often? as a soup or how is it cooked? Grilled. Grilled is how the lizard is usually prepared, the crocodile. 10 soles, the lizard tail is about 3 dollars, more or less. Here on the same street people pass by, bikes, motorcycles, tuk tuk, whatever you like. And the reason why the dried fish sells so much is because a lot of people don't have electricity so it can't be preserved, they have no access to ice and that's why they take them dry and it lasts a long time for later consume it. That's part of the local gastronomy, the heart of palm, they are unraveling it and it is very delicious. They serve it all over the place very very tasty. [Music] See, this is the mapacho...here this lady is showing us how they roll it up. Look Oh wow, this is art. It's smells good in here. With handmade gum. Flour, lemon and water. Ok, it's the handmade gum and that's how they glue the cigarette of mapacho. See, they sell you 100 little cigars of these, crafted for 7 or 8 soles, depending on where you get them. Oh god, oh wow, they are strong. Who smokes this everyday, their throat is used to it, It's really strong really, even my eye cried. First time I smoke it, is strong, it is pure tobacco; the one they call mapacho. Now, curious fact about the mapacho, the locals say that it is the best way to cure you when you get a fly bite, the flies that inject you with a maggot, a larvae and there is a larva living inside of you, this is the best way to cure that. You take out the umpire, which is like oil, the grease, with that you put it on the wound, you blowsome smoke to suffocate the larvae and that's the method to kind of get rid of the fly that injects you a larva. How about that? Wow, it's really strong. Look, the tunche are the spirits of the... True, right? Tunche, which they call to the spirits of the jungle, like people who got lost in the jungle so also the mapacho, the pure cigar of ghosts, for them to not follow you. To take a bath? -To get rid of the bad vibes Wow, they bath you in the tobacco something there like shamanism in the middle. I'm kinda dizzy. It lightens your head hard. The amazon smokers are on another tolerance level. 8 soles, that would be two dollars 50 around there, 2 dollars 50 for [Music] And now we are...How are you? We are going into the passage &quot;Paquito&quot; See here, the paquito passage is here they sell all kinds, how are you? All kinds of , et's call them alternative medicines to do rituals. Blood of what? Grado? Geez, look: to do rituals also to cure some things. What is this inside? Camu camu. This here. Oh the fruit, camu camu. Camu camu liquor. Very well Oh wow, see the lizard. What's up? Look, they sell roots to do all kind of shamanic rituals and look at the bear fat, literally, it is anteater fat which is very good to heal wounds, etcetera etcetera also for a ritual. We are back through the main aisles of the market. Wow, I'm amazed, it's big, it's very big, it's chaotic, the mixture of aromas. I would get lost if we didn't come with guides if I'm left alone, I can't find my way back. [Music] And well, this is how we conclude our tour of the Belen market and the Belen neighborhood which is here behind my back. Look how shocking it looks, it's a huge neighborhood. I was amazed at how nice the people are here. Very warm here. Well friends, thank you for having accompanied me. Subscribe to this channel and stay tuned because the videos of the amazon crossing will keep coming and they're good. If you haven't seen the past ones, go check them out. Watch them. Well thank you for joining me, See you as always. Bye bye. See that, nice people.