Hey guys, My name is Toby Mathis. And today we're going to go over the eight essential differences So I'm a partner at Andersen Business We've been doing this for 25 years, of folks, putting in proper legacy And we're always getting that What's better a will or a living trust? And I can just tell you from our experience in having done and actually shepherded especially in the recent years of COVID, that have passed away and you're seeing And I can tell you what works You can kind of ignore the folks that what actually works in practice So I'm going to give you And let's just start with number one, There's three options you have. Let's see if I can make that show up. So you have three options two of them are going to go through And what a probate process is, is I owned something during my life, Sometimes there's a state statute ownership, So there's there's these little niches have joint joint tenants with right or survivorship spouse passes and it goes to the other where you don't need to go to court So all probate is is taking an asset and it's still in your name So you need to get a court order So there's three ways that a state can get And people are going to say, It's the worst. It takes a lot of money For the most part. I usually court It's your worst behavior on your worst day pushing on to your heirs. It's it's They're going to be scared. They're going to be going in. And they might have to advocate for themselves, which causes of missing out or loss and that somebody There is expense and all those things. So for the most part, I'm going to say avoided if you can. And like I said, there's three options. I'll go over them. Two of them land you in probate, And that's what we're going to be focusing that is that living trust. The other two are I do nothing. It's called dying intestate. And you go under state law number two is a well so like so one, two, three, I did nothing to is I had a will and I'm going to go get a court order Number three is I put the asset So let me just kind of go through this So there's three ways I'm just going to say can go and I'm just going to put that a probate It's the living trust. So there's three ways we can go. Intestate didn't do anything. I'm going to go under the state statute if you remember that, you know, So Minnesota law, I think it's still going on. Gosh knows, but it takes a long But you're going under state law which says, here's who gets my stuff, but Here's who gets my stuff. You can't be much more creative. There's a lot of issues that we're going and we want to make sure that's actually comprehensive enough And then you have a will Like I put my house into a living trust. I don't own it. So if I die doesn't really matter. I just have a in a trust. There's this is There's three parties. There's the grantor who puts the There's a trustee who manages That's who gets the ultimate beneficiary So you have somebody give it, you have the trustee who manages it If it's a living trust, I can change them whenever I want. It's revocable, because when I die, So it's going to stay here. I need to be careful about under what conditions, under Trust allows me to be very, very versatile So when I pass away, the grantor was me. The beneficiaries during And then I have successors and I have trustee, which is me, So when I pass away, the only thing You know, I had to get a court order It says, Oh, Toby's gone. And his, you know, let's say you're not or you're the surviving spouse Oh, who's going to be the trustee? Maybe it's another family member. Maybe it's a bank, maybe it's a trusted advisor, Right? But you have somebody designated to take control which is what you put into living trust. We'll get into some of those provisions But that's the big difference, probate, a living trust avoids probate, a will equals a straight transfer, gives us other options We can be far more creative. We can create a legacy plan. You can create a legacy plan We can actually create a legacy plan. There's a whole bunch of other issues But at its core, They're looking at it going, all right, what's the difference One has to go through this One, I don't. Number two, and I'm just going to wills are not fast. Wills are not fast either. You can create them quickly. But in practice, to actually use a will when you're going Now, let me break this down for you. Since we're going to go through a court process, Then there's statutes that say, here's notice to everybody from creditors That's where people start coming in and saying, Hey, We need there's going to be time frames. You know, on average it's 18 months on a small estate And in many states, you have an expedited probate process But whatever the case, it's not fast. When you use a living done. I'm gone. The assets already in the trust, assuming you funded it, right. Some of you guys out This never put anything at it. Which case you may still have a probate It can be called a pour over will At least you don't have to give Like then you're not going to have these these crazy claims But the big issue here is You just got to understand that So if I do a simple will like I would say any assets over $100,000, you're probably than if you had a really low Like most states will treat the smaller Now, just to give you because when I when you hear not fast, there's there's you're going to have professionals going In this process, the more complex the estate, the bigger So I'm just going to give you the rough AARP did a study marker on smaller estates, which means and was taking between 12 and 18 months And I know some of your attorneys are You actually AARP did come out with that. And that was exactly what they said for there's the big association of Estate somewhere between three But the average estate isn't $50,000 like you're getting into where, hey, 7% is a big chunk, right? 3% of that is a big chunk. You're talking 200,000 in probate costs. And it can be, And that's why guys like me are out there all the time saying, Only one of them avoids that legal process if I never enter a courtroom ever again I'm fine. Having clients never go to court, ever. Court and it's usually not Happy. You're putting yourself who can decide And I would assume avoid that. And so it makes it really simple and I say for my client, And there's only one thing So I'm going to do it right. It makes, makes, So wills are not fast. Number three Wills only work on death. In other words, When you do a will, you don't know until you're gone and now it's being contested of a will that's not enforceable There's plenty of them out there There's there's actually some prominent folks saying where she's trying to benefit some of her We're not going to give them anything. Right. You have to follow certain criteria and even to change it. When you do what's called a codicil, the same requirements of the will. Everything from does How many you know is it Some states, yes. Some states, no. That means that you verbally Or can I write one out? Or do I have to follow formalities I wrote something out, So I'm going to go under state law gives your stuff to somebody You had written it down, You didn't know until you were gone. Otherwise you would have fixed it right. Well, with a living trust, it's You transfer the assets And so it's actually in place. And this is a big one. And I'll go over it But if I'm incapacitated, I already have I already have a successor trustee. If I can't handle my own because, you know, maybe, And we saw this in COVID. People go, maybe maybe you're or I have Alzheimer's or fill in the blank if I'm not able to handle my estate. I already have somebody that's And there's another document that goes like this that that's But what we know for sure is a will does upon death, whereas a living trust Now it's a lifetime document that you can change. So if I am sitting here right now of, Hey, how do I want to treat my estate to those minor children these children are grown up Maybe one or two have become very, And you're saying, hey, Maybe I'm focusing in on my grandkids I'm not too worried about certain things, I want to create a legacy plan but my kids. Kids or my kids, kids, kids, I want to create something I'm funding education for my family. Maybe I'm making sure that nobody's Whatever the case, I can do that I cannot do that with with a will. So I'm going to go over I only have one distribution option which is to distribute it, who gets it. Your Honor, in the honor There are really four different ways I'm just going to put them Number one is I could say, hey, if something happens to Or if something happens to me, to mom That's just called an outright Hey, just distribute it. Trustee distribute automatically. I don't have to go to court. I don't need to go go through It could take two days. I am going to transfer everything. Just distribute it all to my kids. Number two is I could say, hey, Like, so maybe give them 25% Like they still get what we what we call health hims, maintenance and support. Maybe we have a my trust holds and the trust is holding these assets Maybe it's my kids, maybe it's But I have assets being held and that's still going on. But then my beneficiary has the right distribute So maybe I say, hey, 50% at 30 and the rest at 35. You know, whatever, because you're concerned about age as, amount of assets on to somebody So I don't want to give and I give them a million bucks when if I hadn't done that, maybe been a more responsible member I've seen this actually. Guys have actually physically watched what they were doing and then be in a world of hurt and they're like, Crap. Now, what do I do? Well, they They went down a different path. They basically killed three years We've seen that like you probably all know who's been in that situation They changed their life We can just look at lottery studies I think it's after five years, for lottery winners It doesn't mean that they're all going to go bankrupt, but as to what normally would have happened, had they not won the lottery, they would have been better off So when somebody gets a windfall, sticking around is oftentimes that shows the chances of something When you give it to your kids, the chances of getting to your grandkids It's really smart. Like it just goes, you know, and that's So maybe we don't want to just dump it on Maybe we want to put, hey, It might be in your book, you might say, old, 25% at 40, 25% at 50, because they're probably We haven't had something So there's that option to the other option meaning like, hey, I give it over, hey, give 10% every five years for a certain period of time and again, they still have access to the money if they're going to go to school So health, education, maintenance, hey, if I need to be, You have money that that will help cover some money coming in so that, again, But hey, we'll make sure that line to where you end up in Your trustee will still fund them a certain amount to make sure But it doesn't need to be exorbitant. It can just be a reasonable amount like, but I need a car. Okay? There's there's Hyundais Like you can get your Toyota here. Like, it doesn't We can actually be pretty reasonable with a state, somebody who's going to shepherd if I'm going to give you any any any feedback on that one, it's probably best that you trust or you don't have is to pick like a bank because they have to follow And they deal with this stuff all day long that are having to work with this type. So they're used to it. So they're used to saying no all the time. They're used to pushing back what here is about the right limit, You could do that and then save yourself If if if you're the I never make because they'll just be like, Yes, I'll just take that. But anyway, so we've covered three You can have outright at intervals. And then the fourth one is to create which is, hey, we are creating something for many, many years, like where I'm standing right now in Nevada, That's where we're usually drafting. So we can create a trust is going to be this 365 year. Once it kicks in, it's 365 years. When you pass away, We have this long term for this trust handle multiple generations, 365 years, So you're really creating a legacy when you do that and you're not giving So what that means is and you can get creative with this stuff, what really matters to me is that you do mission work or that you go to school or what really matters to me is that you I'll pay for you to go to another country, So I can put that in there with health, Or you can get rid of all the other things and just say, Hey, We're going to pay for school Full stop. As long as it's you know, your trustee, on the school. Hey, as long as it's accredited university you will pay for it. You can say for your degree in math narrow as you want, as broad as you want, And my personal view is this for your family and say, and I'm going to build up assets, especially if you have like real estate you don't want them liquidated to create income for future generations. I'm a big fan of something called Infinity Investing, where I want to be able I don't want them to I want my state to stay intact for future generations. Right. I don't need it to be liquidated That's a lot of estates do that. And that's you know, that's why we But you could be creative. And so we have four options. So I'm just going to say living trusts equal all four options for distribution. See if that's on there. So you have all four options Hey, I can give it outright. I can give it at ages, I can do it at intervals. Or I could just put in there a restriction that says, Hey, It's going to carry on So that's a big one. WILLS only have one, right? So becomes pretty, pretty clear. So if you have a sizable estate, You're going to do a living trust to distribute assets because you know, Now, I'm going to go I want to hit on something that I that is really, really important, When you are doing a will, one thing is that any state that I own assets in, any states that I own them So when I on our list or you know, I'm anything that I just said, by the number of states and that is assuming If we just do Land Trust LLC, Because now that we've converted we don't have to worry about if you own like a house in Nevada and a house They're prohibiting in both places. They're going to have to court Seeing that too many times. I just want to say it as an aside, Just talk to them, say, hey, let's do an entity structure Better off is to do an entity structure So you never have to go to court All right. Number five, this is a big one. And I'm just going to I'll put it up here in a second, There's the weird stuff that happens to beneficiaries. I'm just going to say it like this. There's things like they might needs, So I have a beneficiary that's autistic, from the state and I give them assets. The state could take that. So you need to have Every document I ever drafted For this very reason, special needs distribute money automatically to somebody So if the state is supporting somebody I dump a bunch of assets on them, to cut their support If I leave assets, there's actually it was a great couple not to their kids, And the state had been and providing them So they were like, okay, the parents seem to be pretty good, So they left in a nice sizable inheritance to the grandson They went in and made a claim against it, saying, Hey, We would like to be reimbursed. Please, now that this individual And so they went after the grandson for all the things that they'd been paying Yes. Stuff like that actually happens. And so you put in there a provision don't give the beneficiary these assets if it will cause That's it. The only time you're giving them Designated things that will not cause them And I've been in court I know that there's certain items they're going to have to spend them down In many state programs is to have them have that asset, And by using a special needs provision, number two is divorce. If somebody is going through a divorce, It's one of your kids and you dump a bunch of assets into it. These are generally considered but they still are considered are looking at a fair and equitable So hey, I'm not supposed to think but the court can still do what's fair, or I leave assets to somebody in there in a marriage that maybe is rocky and that money gets you know, hey, this money comes in, hey, Spender or Mrs. Spender, and then a divorce ends up happening. And these assets are now part of that with other assets. Then the next thing you know, your estates divorcing your your beneficiary, the amount like that. So we do like to have provisions put in there like here's a beneficiary, And you could even put in provisions that trust or has to go into a separate account Yes, you can actually put things like that You can even put that in there Hey, something happens to me and we create a, you know, a trust that is my assets. So I make sure it goes to my kids like this. This actually this stuff happens, guys. It actually happened in my family. So a lot of times people And so think of it like this. Right now, I'm I'm married. I pass away. Everything goes to my spouse. She remarries, Everything goes to him. I just disinherited my family. Everything's you know, the new the new husband So the way you control that is you say, into trust for the benefit of my spouse, they have to sign a prenup. That this is not part of So it goes it's like this, hey, they have an estate and we're cutting it that's still there for the benefit But we already know That half, it's going to go to the kids the whoever the beneficiaries were now passed away but, it goes down their line and doesn't Because, again, that survivor, This is going to trip Gentlemen, wife, married, a happy marriage, Three, three kids. I got brought in by a family friend. The wife got cancer. She passed away. Husband. His best friend wasn't his best friend, and decided and came out to the kids and said, hey, this is my And the kids were upset, not you know, They were a Christian family so But it upset them because that was the guy That was like and now I'm supposed to accept this And so Dad said, I'm just inheriting What would mom say about that? Mom didn't know Mom's passed away. Mom has no control. But everything's going to go in theory that was having an affair So regardless I could say it's pretty messed up, If we could go talk to Mom, she'd She probably be like, What? Right in. Oh yeah. Like I want my stuff to go to my kids. Well, dad can disinherit the kids you know, if they get into a fight, it ends up being that the money could be You want to avoid that. You're making sure that that So we want to make sure that we're covering things Here's another one. It's called a credit shelter provision. Again, I put it in all my documents in all of our documents. What it is, is if you have a beneficiary who's going through a bankruptcy and they're having trouble paying their bills or whatnot, and there's if we just give them the money, So we instruct the trustee if it's going to go to a third party, not to These are called And it shelters the money. It shelters the money And what it does is it keeps your money beneficiary made a bad decision. Okay, I leave it to my my son I don't even know he's Everything goes to him. And all of a sudden it's part of the estate That's not my intent. Right? My intent was my money I don't want it to go because somebody That's called a credit shelter provision those monies. Now, the last section is very sensitive. We're having a lot of stuff going on in the United States You're seeing this, and that is my trustee can withhold the distributions to somebody if they reasonably believe they're And this is just basically a I'm not going to give somebody who's in I've seen this. I've actually seen this. We had one client in particular with the individual. They wanted to give an outright and alcohol problems his whole life. And one of our attorneys was like, that you put it in even an enhanced clause like they actually required And unfortunately, and it was the money was all they had access to the funds to manage to just go on a bender and unfortunately So this is where you put in provisions to use reasonable sense to say, hey, let's make sure that they are in a program or at least but we can we can hold it issues or better yet, You're just giving the money out incrementally over a period of time So I'm just going to all with a living trust. You can't do that with a will. Will is who gets it right. So sometimes you have a will pointed to a trust Where they'll say, But then I say, like, Why you forcing it into probate? I usually know because the attorneys let's not do that. Let's keep our stuff private so that it's And let's keep it within the family and we'll just keep our affairs So that's number five. Unusual provisions. Number six, And I'm just going Wills are public. Oops, I can go pull up somebodies case that's going through probate I could see what things they have in I can see it. That's That's why we know all these things That's why. Why we don't know anything because a living trust, So if you want privacy, you need to use a living trust. So private equals private equals a living trust. Wills are public. You can go look it up. There was a case there was people So if they saw in a probate that were out of state or that there was a question and they had an inventory, They could go right in the house, like, okay, there's these items are in here, they would break in and go take it. And there was actually a little bit and they figured out, oh, my gosh, here's So a little bit. And again, another thing is Do you want to your families, affairs put out there into a public document All right. Now, number seven is going to be weird. We're going to use And the reason is this and it's fully funded, We don't need any will of any kind. But if I set up a living trust you still need to get that asset into the living trust You're going to still need to probate Most people are pretty good making sure that they're and things like that So it's not an issue. But if you do have assets like, let's say, or something, you're But we only have one beneficiary. We're going to make it so much simpler So I could have a state I still may have to do a low asset probate Maybe it's a car, maybe it's a it's a some checking account And just keep in mind things like your retirement accounts, insurance is going to go off are insurance unless you make your living Like there's certain things that, hey, even if I forget, But if I have larger assets, I'm going to have to go in there But it's so much easier when there's only one beneficiary, So when I do a living trust, I always do a pour over And I make sure that that pour over Will is designating the Living Trust And I always put in the living if you're a beneficiary disinherited, you're done that that We just want to make sure and we don't have a whole bunch of people That's how you do it, by the way, if you do it. So all we're doing is but we're Right. We don't want the contests. We don't want the long term process. It might be that, hey, going to take 180 days I can't get away from that. But it's but it's going to be a minority. It can be a small portion And it's going to be one beneficiary. So that one always throws people off. So that's like when we're looking at the big differences There's so many reasons where people say, And I'm always going to say, The living trust is way more effective. Like always do a living trust. Yes, but also always do a will. Your it's yes, sure. Should I have a living trust or a will? You know, I'm always going to be both. You're always going to have both. We just want it to be a pour over will as opposed to a will We still want the trust to control it, minimizing And then number eight, and I'm just going to call this we'll just call this ancillary ancillary documents. And what do I mean? I mean, health care documents, for example, if you cannot advocate for yourself So it might be an advanced It might be a health care power We want to have those documents They're always included in a will. They're not a When you do a will, it's But what about when I'm alive? What about things that happen I care about making sure Why I'm alive way more than when I'm I want to make sure I don't lose that somebody is advocating for me. And in the health care world, that means like a hip, a release, with a doctor about my medical information So I need to have that sort of thing. And then something called a living. Well, a lot of people think of a living and having somebody in a meaningful way to Do I want extraordinary methods taken if the downside of preserving I need to make sure that somebody can have that discussion with the doctor That's just on the health care. Then there's the financial side. What about making sure that if I am My father had Alzheimer's You've got to have somebody designated We actually had to sue an insurance It's almost impossible to do. And if you don't have those documents, you're going in and you're in a whole other consuming and difficult and expensive. So we make sure that we have What if you have a minor children? Who's going to care If I'm incapacitated or if I pass away, who's going to watch my kids And in writing, how about gifts? How about just making it it right out things Hey my, fishing rods. I want it to go to my buddy My golf clubs. I want to curse one of my friends going to give my great golf, very easily with an ancillary document Very difficult And so I want to make sure that I have included. And so there's health, there's financial, there's things like gifts, there's making sure that those things are Also things like organ donation, your organ donation in a will, It's not going to happen. If you want to try to bless, people know like that's something It needs to be in your health care I want to be an organ donor, so that you can immediately converse this is something that Toby wanted or So that is always a big win you see people that do wills. A lot of times we do these all you have to ask yourself, Why are they doing that? 199 Will It's because they make it up on the probate fees when they're Because what happens when the kids here's the firm that drafted it, They get paid later. They're literally just kind of How do I know this? Because my partner, Clint, and that was his the assets of his of his firm was this this whole file because they had a steady flow of probate. So that was a marketable asset We do not want that. We do not want there So you're handling it So let's just say that we use the Estate They use a 3 to 7% by three or 7% to not have to do that is it worth it or prevent and make it so that my heirs Is it worth it with all the ancillary documents a situation where the answer was was And in another simple one you do somebody who's sitting down talking when And, you know, it's really And you say, great, Write it down and say, Well, you sign off that your firm won't charge So if the cost of living trust is 5000 bucks, right, will you sign off that you won't charge my estate more than $5,000 to probate it? Oh, no, no, no, no. They'll say, oh, no, we can't do that. Why not? You just said it was cheaper, right? Like you just said that So certainly you'd be willing to do that. They'll never do that. They don't do that. The reason they don't do that What we can do is set up a situation So we don't know. I don't know. You don't know? Nobody knows until you're in it. You don't know whether you're you're going to just one because I know the attorney was over We don't know because you put it all into court, We want to do is avoid that all that issue and hopefully, But now we're just making sure So we do. The living trust is a reason so that we can avoid that unknown and we make sure that we fund it We make sure that we're covering Those are the big essential issues. And then you can have And knowing that, hey, I've already wrap My heirs aren't going to be sitting here I hear you aren't They're not, any expense associated We're going to handle it Hopefully, Hopefully that seed gets planted of other options that you can actually And by the way, if you ever you know, I always ask this to clients like, hey, And invariably the people that really know the ones that actually have a family value It's because the great grandparents something And I don't mean or crazy, but if you leave something to If you do not leave something to somebody, And so you're creating a legacy my values, And if you want your family about your values and things, create All right. So I just went over eight. Let's see if I could do this right. Eight major differences between that, between a will and a living trust. Hopefully some of these things If you have any questions, If you think that there's people share it. And as always, I have a free YouTube because I'll will let you know and hopefully you benefited