I did go to Zambia though. Fantastic place Zambia. Went there, visited the While I was there I had a chaperone His name was Alinani, sweet guy. And his job was to get me And every day he would give me a new piece of Like one day he looks at me and goes, "Trevor, you know Zambia is a I said, "Oh, okay Ali. He says, "Yea, so please stay away from profanity." And I said I can do that, I assumed he meant swearing. But I didn't say anything because I wasn't No, no, because in Zambia people have names like Profanity. So, that's how I laughed when I met Screwdriver. Yea, because you see In South Africa we have African names you can translate. Like Happiness, Blessing and Hope. Those kinds of names. But then in Zambia People give their names, like they give their children names of everyday English words, anything. So like, table, chair, car, house. You see, like you just have to get used to it. It's very hard, but you have Which was difficult because I met a mechanic, And that was not, especially when Brake And his dad was there like, "stop it Brake, And I was like, "Hey, stop it Brake. Ha Ha." But you have to get used to it, it's a cultural thing. And so, you have to respect it. And the second warning Ali gave me, was even stranger. We are driving thru Lusaka, the capital. And Ali looks over at me in the car and goes, "Trevor, you know here in Zambia I said, "Oh, ok Ali. That's He says, "Yes, so while you are here don't be gay." I said, "What?" He says, "I know it can be tempting "Don't be gay." "Don't be gay?" I have never been warned of this in my life, don't be gay? "Hey bru, don't be gay. Don't be gay." "Don't be gay?" Crazy, crazy warning to get. But then I found out why Ali was warning me. Turns out in Zambia being gay is illegal. If you are found to be gay you will be arrested and sent to prison for more than thirty years, yea. Which is a bit of a weird punishment. When you think about it. I mean I am not saying that gay guys would enjoy prison, I am just saying if I was gay That's not the worst thing They would be like, "you I would be like, "Oh no." Don't be gay? I couldn't believe this, gay is a crime in Zambia. Which got me thinking. If gay is a crime, They actually have to police gay. Yeah. Which means in their police force, they have a gay division. It's a crime, it's a crime. So that means they have a murder unit, a And then they got a gay unit. Yea, they have got a little G unit in their police force. That's responsible for all things gay. That must be the most fun police You get to go under cover, dress up really nice. Get in touch with your flamboyant I bet the sergeant's there every "Good morning Detectives." "Welcome everybody, today we will "We have just been informed of a fashion "And as you know, the gays cannot "Therefore we will be in full attendance "Let us make sure we are here." "Detective Chepoa?" "Present!" "Detective Table?" "Present!" "Detective Mongai?" "Present!" "I think he's in too deep." How do you police gay? Do they stop you if you look suspiciously gay in the streets? I mean, gay doesn't have a look. But maybe you Do the police pull up there and is like, *police siren* "What is the purpose of that flamboyant scarf?" "Put your hands up!" "Turn around! Don't tempt "You are going to jail." How do you police gay? Do they have roadblocks? Do they have gay roadblocks? They are just like stopping people in they're cars. "Good evening Officer" "Good evening Sir" "License Please?" "Thank you very much, Mr. Stylish. Hey?" "Tell me Sir, have you been gay this evening?" "No, I have not been gay. In fact, I don't gay at all." "I see, not even one or two?" "No, No. No gays for me. No gays for me." "Okay" "Then tell me Sir." "What is that I can smell on your breath?" "Is that balls?" "No, no, no, I" "I don't even eat Chutney, No" "A ha" "So you are not gay?" "No, not gay at all" "Then Sir, can you please blow into this?" Ahh Don't be gay. I was not gay while I was in Zambia, so I had a good time. Went around and saw the people. The highlight of my trip I asked Ali for suggestions. Ali said to me, "Maybe you should travel "just have a good time." I said to Ali I want to do something special. He said, "Oh well, in that case" "Maybe you can go to the Mall and if you are lucky" "maybe you can ride the escalators." I said, "What?" "Hey, I am not promising anything" "but if you are early, maybe you can go once or twice." I said, "Escalators?" "I know, mind-blowing ha?" I thought he was messing with me. Until I found out people in Zambia go to the mall just to ride the escalators. It seems ridiculous until you understand the backstory. When we were in Zambia there were Five, in the whole country. The first escalator was built in August. Not August 19?? No, no. You remember August. Past August? They built they're first escalators, ever. Yea, and so now it is all the rage. People But now, I don't want you to That's not what Zambia is, They are developing just as we are, they have roads. They got airports, the have beautiful hotels. Stunning shopping Malls. They've got everything we The have just never had escalators. And now they started building them. And because of that people go there, and Yea, Dads will go home and fetch their children. "Children, we are going to the Mall." "To do what Daddy?" "To do shopping, and to ride the escalators!" "Yay!" We couldn't believe this so We get to the Mall. The Mall is empty. Escalators are packed! People are standing in lines going There's old people, young people, even couples. There were couples. Guys that "I am going to take you to the escalator girl." "Oh, you are so fancy hey?" Escalators. Some people didn't even Kids were easy, they just jumped on. Old people would panic. There was one guy who got on the escalator, and it was going up. And I guess to compensate for He started leaning. He fell down! He was hurt so badly. Oh, it was fantastic to watch. We spent like three hours doing this, And you know what? Our patience paid off, because A school brought a class of children to the Mall. And their excursion was just to ride the escalators. It was magic. Thirty kids, about five years old. Cutest things, And they are standing there together holding hands. And they were so excited, they were shining. Not from excitement, they had Vaseline. And there is two teachers with the children, And in a long train they start marching through the Mall. And as they do the start singing at the "Escalator" "Escalator" "Escalator" "Oh, Oh, Ohhhhhhoh Escalator" "Escalator" It was the sweetest thing ever. People are waving at them, smiling. And these kids see the escalators. And they lost, their minds. These kids went crazy. They're not holding hands, they It looked like a zombie movie, or something. They are jumping, but then you see the smiles on their faces. It's like the end of Saraphina. You are These kids are screaming. They are The teacher can't control them. "Hey! Get back! Get Back!" "Two-by-two! Two-by-two!" Two-by two was one of the She's like, "Two-by-Two! Next to Other kids are still jumping, she can't control them. There was one fat kid. He couldn't "Escalator!" "Escalator!" It was the most amazing thing I have ever seen in my life. It's like I had gone in a time machine to a time when escalators were new. Brand new and popular So popular... that people were taking pictures of the escalators using their iPhones! Technology eh? Ah ah ah! Who even thinks of these things eh? Can you imagine? Eh we are in the future now my man! Mechanical moving stairs ah? What are we going to see next? I don't even know, I don't even know! I wonder how it works, ah!? Let me just check... Siri, how does an escalator work? I don't know