Narrator: Lotus flowers, are the unlikely source of and luxurious fibers in the world: silk. Known for its unique sheen and luster, silk has been regarded for thousands of years. At $80 per yard, its extraction process is Here's how craftspeople across the southern part of Asia extract and process the delicate fibers from silkworms, lotus We begin with these in Nam Cao, Vietnam. They're responsible for spinning each of these tiny cocoons. Just one of them can hold Here, craftspeople produce silk in a tedious 30-step process. It all starts in fields like this one, where the worms' food is harvested. Silkworms only eat mulberry leaves. They contain vitamins, amino that the worms never need to drink water. Farmers bring loads of harvested leaves to the silkworm houses, where tens of thousands of silkworms are raised on big bamboo mats. The worms need over 600 and they're fed every four hours. If they don't eat this much, they'll produce less silk The worms also need a sterile environment at a perfect temperature of or they'll die. After nearly a month their bodies will plump up. When golden silk starts to appear, the farmers will transfer and hang them on racks stuffed with straw. Here, they can spin their cocoons. The worms spit the silk out of this organ, called a spinneret. Within two days, the cocoons are ready. Workers remove each one by hand. Once they've got a big enough pile, they boil the cocoons in water. That way, they can kill the pupae inside and either eat them or use them in traditional medicine. They soak the cocoons to soften the threads before pulling them. This machine reels the silk. Workers then hang the threads to dry. Next, the threads are machine-woven. And, finally, the silk in all-natural dyes. This technique is the same one that's been used for generations. Today, these silk farmers produce over 2,200 pounds of silk per year. Lotus silk is one of the only extracted by a few craftspeople across Vietnam, Cambodia, and Myanmar. Extracting enough lotus silk for one scarf can take two months, and the final product can cost 10 times as much as regular silk. The fiber is paler, softer, and stretchier than the bright yellow Unlike worm silk, each starts with the stem of the lotus flower, and every single thread Each stem contains a minuscule amount of thin stick fibers, which must be rolled together and dried. The threads need to be processed within 24 hours, while they're still wet; otherwise, they'll break. The plants are only available to harvest between April and October, so harvesting has to be done daily. Once dry, these threads and delicately hand-spooled. Then they're put into the loom. The fibers are much more so they can only be hand-woven, and this requires multiple steps. Once woven, the material is as soft and durable as traditional silk, breathable as linen, and slightly elastic. A 25-centimeter scarf can In Assam, a state in northeastern India, muga silk is as valuable To make these lustrous golden strands, laborers must unwind a into a single, long, seamless thread. And to make just one sari, about 1,000 cocoons need to be unraveled. A sari made of muga silk can cost up to $6,500, thousands more than other saris. The silk can last up to 100 years and is said to offer protection by absorbing 85% of harmful UV rays. Extracting it involves a It all starts with two Rearers pick a pair to mate and tie the female to a khorika, a stick with a hook made This is where the female Rearers then transfer the where larvae will hatch and begin to feed on the leaves. Larvae are vulnerable at this stage, so farmers need to keep a watchful eye. They shoot clay pellets into the fields to keep potential predators at bay. After one or two months, they can collect the mature caterpillars. They put muga silkworms into jalis, structures made by tying Here, the caterpillars rest and weave their cocoons for three days, until they fully empty their silk glands and enter pupation. Now it's time for the weaving process. To produce 1 kilogram of muga yarn, a weaver needs 5,000 cocoons, which is enough for about five saris. It's tradition to add dried banana peel or paddy thatch ash to the mixture to give the thread a better sheen. The shinier the silk, the Two people then use a bhangoi to carefully reel the in a continuous motion. Reelers gently pull from several cocoons and join the thin strings together to make one thicker thread. They must make sure each thread has a consistent thickness, or the yarn won't be as valuable. Finally, the rearers into the bamboo looms, where Assamese women weave