NARRATOR: Egypt, of archaeological treasures SALIMA IKRAM: NARRATOR: Beneath lie the secrets of MAN: Wow, you can see why NARRATOR: Now, for a full our cameras have to follow teams on MAN: I'm driving so fast WOMAN: It's an entrance, NARRATOR: ANTONIO MORALES: that they have found something. (laughing) MAN: A sphinx! NARRATOR: that could rewrite MAN: Hey! NARRATOR: This time, what tomb raiders left behind. John investigates an ancient JOHN DARNELL: Royal tombs are NARRATOR: US Homeland Security helps bring a stolen mummy SALIMA: How fabulous. NARRATOR: And Don in a long-forgotten tomb. DON: Oh, my gosh. It has a possibility NARRATOR: 65 tombs hidden built to contain the mummies and their treasures. Throughout history from within just a few weeks right up to the 20th century. But to archaeologists, is still priceless evidence, helping them to unlock MAN: Dr. Ryan. NARRATOR: Renowned American is kicking off his season DON: I first came to Egypt It was my priority to come And I had a map of and I noticed amongst all these there were all these little dots and those really intrigued me. NARRATOR: The dots the smaller and lesser-known Don made these DON: Working in various tombs has so many aspects apart from it being the most in the world. NARRATOR: Dig season runs and relies on the expertise of hundreds of DON: I know this guy He's a good guy. This book is kind of special, because it goes back to my very This is 1989. Every tomb in is a piece of a great puzzle. NARRATOR: Don's missions of small tombs at the edge Nearby is the impressive of Pharaoh Amenhotep II. But most of the surrounding All of them were looted any treasures stolen But in some, they left behind and ancient pottery. This year, Don is excavating tombs of them all: Who it was built for Thought to be empty, no one has excavated it DON: We are the first and clear the material out I know from previous experience having excavated a number that these early archaeologists or the prettier things and NARRATOR: Solving the mysteries The chamber is DON: At this point for whom this tomb We have to look for NARRATOR: Don has become the secrets of these smaller, DON: The tombs I work with one can't just go in In the Valley of the Kings is a magnificent honor. It could have been or it could have been NARRATOR: Tomb 49 has been but that doesn't mean DON: We'll clear this stuff out and it'd be really nice if we found something We might find some objects It has the possibility NARRATOR: The team has to move several tons of earth. Each bucketful must undergo with even the tiniest fragments for further investigation. DON: One never knows, it could that might give up the answer NARRATOR: At the entrance sits a complex of tombs and In the cliffs of this site are where important officials ANTONIO: Shukran. How many people ALI FAROUK: Total, 3-0. ANTONIO: So we need 10 more. NARRATOR: Professor is an Egyptologist from the He's in charge of 30 working here on archaeological projects ANTONIO: We came here to that belonged to very powerful high officials. They provide much information beliefs, ritual practices, and about ancient Egyptian NARRATOR: But this year, his government permit ANTONIO: This season is going because we were expecting to we're actually going to do it which means that this is going NARRATOR: Like the tombs this site was also robbed ANTONIO: Most of the ancient weeks or months so for us it's very interesting with a reconstruction RAOUL: So those are NARRATOR: Last year, hundreds of body parts: mummies ripped apart by thieves ANTONIO: The robbers looking for as many objects and once they were perhaps they burned the mummy, they didn't want any visit from the afterlife. NARRATOR: Tomb robbers believed to haunt them unless But for the dead themselves, this was the worst They needed their mummified to live on in the afterlife. So stopping thieves was about more than protecting it was also about ensuring ANTONIO: Now I can go NARRATOR: Antonio how the owner of this tried to prevent his mummy from ANTONIO: Now we are in where his coffin and corpse NARRATOR: The team must have belonged to There's no mummy, but with intricate hieroglyphs. Among them, the team finds DAINA: So this area so the deceased is named Ipi. What you can see here is the deceased needs NARRATOR: Ipi was a vizier, a role second only A powerful statesman, he was buried in an ornately covered in spells to protect To ensure his mummy Ipi's tomb was designed The entrance was sealed And inside the burial chamber, the sarcophagus was then covered with stone slabs so that the room ANTONIO: When robbers came, a wonderful floor, and they will because it was already stolen. NARRATOR: But even wasn't enough to stop thieves. Ipi's mummy and were stolen centuries ago. (men yelling) Outside Ipi's tomb, ANTONIO: I have been told that we started working this morning it seems they have found NARRATOR: Antonio's team an opening in the rubble. It could be an entrance undisturbed for NARRATOR: In the Valley Egyptologist Don Ryan the mysterious tomb 49. DON: It stops right there. (speaking Arabic) NARRATOR: His decision to from a seemingly empty tomb The team has found that might help reveal including pottery, DON: These are cloth fragments, and they tend to be These could be 3,000 years old, because it's, it's dry and conducive to It, it does tell you something, it tells you that if there was a mummy in there and that's of course NARRATOR: These pieces of are over 3,000 years old. DON: This is probably a big And this is probably part of that was used to hold bits and ROSE: You guys got DON: Well, maybe, we'll see. NARRATOR: Based on Don can begin to piece together what was actually inside A hidden staircase, chiseled leads to The excavated pieces of wood were probably from that held Stored around the coffin everything the tomb owner It seems like tomb 49 is but who it belongs to Suddenly, Don is called NARRATOR: Among the rubble is DON: Oh! NARRATOR: Exactly what Don DON: Oh, my gosh. NARRATOR: An artifact DON: This is a ring and possibly we have the name of Ramses III, one of the great warrior My team would be the first to NARRATOR: The ring is but unexpected find. If it does belong it shouldn't be here. Ramses was buried in DON: How this object got NARRATOR: At Deir El-Bahari, Egyptologist Antonio Morales near the ransacked tomb of the vizier Ipi. They've just discovered MOHAMED: What you can see here ANTONIO: After a couple of hours NARRATOR: The entrance it's possible this chamber ANTONIO: He's going to clean and then once we know we can take up everything But make sure you keep we need to do all this NARRATOR: With such the team must work ANTONIO: It seems that could be larger so we need to clean so that they can to see whether we can go into NARRATOR: Antonio hopes from this new chamber, because last season, the team discovered what Antonio suspects is of intact mummification ANTONIO: We found these 56 jars related to the mummification NARRATOR: For ancient robbers, ANTONIO: What we were was when we really realized that some of the jars still It really makes it NARRATOR: Despite being the contents are SALIMA: Raoul? Coming in! RAOUL: So this is SALIMA: Perfect. RAOUL: ...of one of the jars. NARRATOR: With 56 jars Antonio has called in professor of Egyptology at the She's forensically examining including mummified body parts. SALIMA: Sometimes and then there are moments where with people's bodily fluids, But it's fantastic because physically, as well as with people who lived NARRATOR: Salima is SALIMA: The natron is a mixture and it naturally desiccates because that's what we do as we--(slurp)-- NARRATOR: Ancient Egyptians to preserve bodies First, priests removed To dry out these organs, the priests used sponges to soak up fluids The soul was believed so this organ was kept The other organs All materials used during the so everything was packed into SALIMA: So this is the one and it was early on because it's really hard and it's absorbed a lot of and it's been smushed down, and you can see its different with Ipi's body. Ooh! Plumpy! God, that's fat! And this one smells a bit This smells more of body and (sniffs) You know, if you look at you will kind of figure out If forensic scientists we can do it for deaths because that's just what NARRATOR: These materials mummification deposits SALIMA: The earlier the better it is for us how mummification changed So really, these are testaments, to what happened and how. NARRATOR: 300 miles north Here, in the shadow a team of investigators of modern-day tomb robbers. Shaaban Abd-Elgawad is He works with crime agencies to locate stolen NARRATOR: Shaaban has over 1,000 stolen artifacts NARRATOR: After ancient mummy parts have been NARRATOR: In the 1900s, thieves stole thousands from the Valley of the Kings, NARRATOR: Could these be the mummified parts of NARRATOR: Shaaban is on his way where the illegal artifacts from the United States. NARRATOR: Who the parts but mummification was for nobility and pharaohs. SHAABAN: We're going to the lab. NARRATOR: Shaaban and his team these extraordinary relics NARRATOR: Finally home can forensic analysis reveal exactly who the hands In the Valley of the Kings, Don and the local workers with a team ritual. DON: One of our workers, she started making cakes for us, Yeah, take the whole thing. Don't be shy, A lot of times we start and then we get right to work. NARRATOR: Today, Don is and most spectacular sites Tomb number 11. After his discovery of a ring he's hoping to verify DON: We're in the tomb perhaps the last great pharaoh and of course he's entitled to in the Valley of the Kings. So he was obviously very This magnificent, shows him just causing havoc and anyone else NARRATOR: Each pharaoh had called a cartouche. It was a key part found on walls, the coffin, and DON: In front of me, we have We have a seated figure On the right we have the sign and then a sun disc This is a blown-up image of the By looking at the hieroglyphs you know, it's essentially NARRATOR: Ramses III famed for battling Libya trying to invade Egypt. But his wars drained and in an argument over which Ramses was murdered. Some believe his wife plotted His burial and tomb Golden amulets and jewelry in every layer of But Ramses' tomb And like the tombs the mummies were stolen, and stripped DON: This tomb is just across I find it interesting that we, inside tomb 49. Maybe that ring it could've been dropped So we can start with and then see where NARRATOR: Don's challenge now why a ring with Ramses III's was found in the rubble NARRATOR: At Deir El-Bahari, Antonio and his team have been a secret entrance of a pharaoh's right-hand man, It could be a chamber built or even a body, from thieves. After two days of digging, for the first time the entrance is finally clear. MOHAMED: I will have a look now. Oh, yeah. Well, it's perfectly empty. There's nothing in there. Just a magnificent, ANTONIO: So how was that? MOHAMED: Well, it probably had and it, it can fit also funeral materials. ANTONIO: Anyway. MOHAMED: Of course this means actually was ahead and NARRATOR: The team removes to verify the chamber has been ANTONIO: So we will like in the way they were but all these robberies somehow tell us a lot about NARRATOR: All they can do now and map its location. MOHAMED: Disappointment should it's a, you know, and of course sometimes but you have to live with it. NARRATOR: On the other side Ipi's mummification jars ANTONIO: Hello, Salima. SALIMA: Hey, Antonio. NARRATOR: One jar in particular contains something ANTONIO: So I brought you SALIMA: Oh! We can see this is quite You can see and here you can just see And this sort of red/gold color because people used to use resin disinfects, inhibits bacteria, when you're a corpse but also because and when you're being mummified, from a human being into a divine NARRATOR: Found in the heart almost certainly SALIMA: It's sort of amazing to But I mean, also you think, oh, Because it should be with Ipi, ANTONIO: Yeah. NARRATOR: The ancient Egyptians contained the soul and SALIMA: So it's amazing. NARRATOR: To find one is extremely rare. SALIMA: This is the only that I have ever seen. ANTONIO: Perhaps the embalmers and thought that it was SALIMA: Yeah. ANTONIO: To be put SALIMA: I think they messed up, is not having a problem because he's lacking ANTONIO: We have been from the historical and suddenly now having the heart It's kind of impossible to someone that you have been For me this is The adventure of having to deal every day, so many exciting ideas, makes this job much more than any other thing NARRATOR: At tomb 49, Don's discovery of what might has caught the attention DON: The director it's a very, very important he wants to take a look with the name of Ramses III. NARRATOR: The chief inspector assesses the progress DON: Bust out the jewelry box. Here it is. NARRATOR: He has the power to NARRATOR: Any relics found belong to the government and according to strict rules. (speaking Arabic) DON: Shukran. INSPECTOR: Congratulations. NARRATOR: The inspector gives INSPECTOR: Okay. Thank you. DON: You're very welcome. Thanks for coming out. INSPECTOR: Bye-bye. DON: The Egyptian authorities by, by the whole thing. I think he was impressed. So that's always good. INSPECTOR: For the ring, because, you know, it is is continuing the name NARRATOR: The ring is likely to end up in a museum. But for Don the question how did Pharaoh Ramses III's One theory is that it was by robbers, and the ring they left behind. DON: One of the things that very special is that we have two examples It's written in red in a cursive form And the graffiti talks about and linen shawls being stored NARRATOR: The graffiti is commonly used to wrap mummies, DON: There's a prominent name a fellow named Butehamun. NARRATOR: Could there be a link between Butehamun's and Ramses III's ring? Helping to discover how are Professor John and They've studied Butehamun's for decades. JOHN DARNELL: Rock inscriptions as you can get to the mind of &quot;What do I want people How do I want NARRATOR: Today, they're on a temple complex COLLEEN DARNELL: To visit when I was a 5-year-old and to go back and be able and the historical is just truly a dream come true. NARRATOR: It's one of the most of ancient Egypt. It should reveal more a high-ranking scribe who oversaw JOHN: Where is the title Oh, wait, there's a Ma-ha. COLLEEN: It's great to see, So I think this is JOHN: But there is there's no treasury building. Of course he is overseeing of New Kingdom Egypt, he's in charge of NARRATOR: Letters have also about Butehamun's role JOHN: One of the really of direct information is this letter saying, COLLEEN: Mm-hmm. JOHN: Of whom Butehamun is one, and they're basically told they have to carry out And the really important it says, and that's interesting, then apparently it's, NARRATOR: The letters that 80 years after Butehamun was given of protecting the Valley In reality, he was secretly of long-dead pharaohs One by one, he opened them up, taking any treasure to restore He even unwrapped the pharaohs' taking the gold and jewels But Butehamun still respected so he rewrapped them so they would remain intact JOHN: Royal tombs are not robbed they're opened systematically They're basically doing before actual robbers do it. For decades, the real source is probably to a great extent what Butehamun are bringing out of NARRATOR: Did Butehamun while carrying out in tomb 49? NARRATOR: In Cairo, are battling modern-day Stolen mummy parts intercepted on the international have been returned Thought to be from could these be the mummified NARRATOR: As Egypt's foremost Professor Salima Ikram has come SALIMA: It is always exciting to even in bits and pieces. How fabulous. Oh! Well, this is just But look at those little rings. People who were robbing mummies, what they did was they because it was easier and hands were really because often they had Oh, wow! Okay, this, this is clearly but what's extraordinary is that But even so, there's a ring. NARRATOR: A blue ring is through the mummy's wrappings. SALIMA: Oh, wow! NARRATOR: But could this be The methods used changed over time. Salima is hoping to find clues that will help her SALIMA: Oh, look! I think Look. Right there's the hair. So there's hair here, MAN: That means it's a man? SALIMA: Yes, it's a man. MAN: How old? SALIMA: How old? Good question. There, there's gold, and here. NARRATOR: Salima has spotted all over the head, SALIMA: This is a Roman-period NARRATOR: During Roman times, the bodies of were often coated but at that time was no longer used SALIMA: So this means that it's from Dealers would want to that would hike up the price, and so the Valley of the Kings that most people would jump on. NARRATOR: He may not but such liberal would've been reserved for SALIMA: These three pieces, I don't think any of them in terms of belonging But still they're mummies, so they can teach us the history of robbery, and the, you know, So they're really NARRATOR: For Shaaban, from it's a rare victory SHAABAN: that we recover all This is very important that to the history of Egypt and This is an unbelievable feeling. NARRATOR: Don Ryan is assessing excavated from tomb 49. He has an incredible new story DON: We're almost done. I would describe our season You have this chamber that we and we, we found some This tomb, it was robbed and at a later point NARRATOR: Don's finds and Ramses III's ring, combined with the graffiti suggest this tomb could have in a state-sanctioned In here, Butehamun and stole the jewels hidden Some treasures, were accidentally left behind. DON: All these little tombs, they're full of and when you put it this place truly is amazing. Archaeology in the Valley of Just when you think it might be,