Claudia: We're in Kalamata in the Peloponnese, Greece. This region produces the finest olive It's made from this olive It is a very small olive, but also very rich Thanks to a cold extraction and a slow Koroneiki olive oil a true nectar of the gods. This is the land of ancient This olive oil is very spiced olive oil. Very intense, and that is what makes Like, the aromas of the intense Claudia: This region has a with extended which makes it the ideal Koroneiki olives from late October The best olive oil the one extracted harvested in the when they're bright green. Early-harvest olive oil It is rich in polyphenols which make the flavor As the olives ripen, they do but they will get darker. These ripe olives contain and will give a but their oil has To preserve the nutrients the harvest happens There are two methods. One is to shake the olives out of the tree with Dimitra: See, now they The olive fall, and they Claudia: And it's only to fall that They do everything. So basically they go Some of them are more ripe. Some of them are more green. We need them both. We need them both to be Claudia: Ah, this one. Yeah? Whoa! And so I -- oh, OK! Need to do this job with Ah! It's, uh, let's see. Another method is to prune and then collect the olives with the help of which filters So, the olives There's olives falling. Be careful, be careful. Claudia: It's Dimitra: Yeah, it's Dimitra: Bravo, like this. With both methods, the which is made of to avoid compressing The net is then closed and the more stubborn are taken out by hand. Dimitra: Like, fast, fast. It's like brushing them. Yes, yes, yes. Claudia: So, how many olives Dimitra: 50 kilos of Claudia: Wow. Dimitra: And from that, you OK. Scratch the olive. Squeeze it to find Now look, this is Claudia: Oh, look! It's actually whiter. because it's mixed Dimitra: And smell it. Fresh? Nice. Dimitra: This is the fresh in the fresh olive oil. that you just have cracked Claudia: Oh, yeah. inside the olive itself. Dimitra: No, they're They are. They are very bitter. But it's still nice. The Koroneiki olive has Both varieties are important for the life of Dimitra: This is the pollination Also, think of tradition. People produced what they So they needed both Kalamata Claudia: Because of Kalamata olives are not They are instead and go through a They are cured in brine, then vinegar, and then stored in jars We have more than Some of them are We are very connected Every family has 200 It is their olive even though they And it's also for Claudia: Together with from her family's groves, Dimitra will usually work with local families to Her mill is actually paid in as it keeps 8% of More than 1,000 sacks during peak harvest The oil is extracted After this machine the olives are washed. This is an important step to remove any soil that that would give the There is also a scale and see what percentage of olive We need to weigh the olives to see how many olives Usually for the when it's early When it's mid-season, Claudia: The olives, are ground into a paste. The paste ferments and to bring out the aromas Then the temperature to be able to Cold extraction means is produced with olives Because otherwise you would Exactly, you'd burn Claudia: Yeah, yeah. Dimitra: Now we So basically we don't Press is open air. So now, here we don't Press is human touch. We don't want that. Claudia: The extraction happens in this machine It works like a big centrifuge like the paste, the from the liquid, which The process is very fast. From their arrival, olives in less than 45 minutes. The liquid gold that comes out the finest grade in the Extra-virgin means that has preserved all and polyphenols present like cheese made Olive oil is also measured by a parameter For extra-virgin, the free acidity must meaning than less than 0.8% of the fatty acids normally have been damaged, either Extra-virgin olive oil but also has a shorter shelf We have the liquids, and now we have to There is some water that's Again, it's a second At this time it's vertical. Olive oil is light; Water is heavy; goes down. And like this, naturally, Claudia: Olive oil is stored in 300-ton When not full, the tanks In fact, light, oxygen, are the worst enemies Unlike wine, there is no such Olive oil is only Dimitra's mill produces of olive oil every year. This is my office. Your olive mill, yeah. The traditional So, it was in 1904 that the olive-oil And my husband now is the fifth-generation owner Claudia: Oh, wow. So this Dimitra: This is the family. So this is my father-in-law. In that photo, he's 4. Claudia: He's the small one? Dimitra: Yeah, the small Now he's 74. OK, you are very lucky, because this is the harvested 10 days ago. So this is as fresh as This is the This is from our own I want you to take Close it and cover it. And let's roll it a bit. Usually when we taste we taste them in 28 degrees. This is the perfect because you have the You feel them. OK? Extra-virgin olive oil has No. 1 is fruitiness. Fruitiness, you can only And fruitiness has a by the national standards. Let's put our nose in. Oh. I could put this on Fruity, fresh. The Koroneiki variety has the fresh-cut grass Yeah. It smells This is a fruitiness And then what are the Bitter. You feel it here, right and left part And spicy. You feel it here when [sucks in] [sucks in] [Claudia coughs] Dimitra: That was the spicy! So is that movement you The oxygen. Yeah, to sort of Dimitra: Breathe, yes, So this is when Dimitra: Exactly. Claudia: where you need a Yeah, yeah. You want fresh green mouth. Not to be disturbing. Good-quality bread, really make me blessed. Make me feel really good. So nice. Well, you are to be doing this. I love it. I love it. Dimitra: Messinia is an as far as you can see. People of this land Helots means slaves. They were not really slaves, They were producing That's why Euripides has called Kalli, good. Karpos, seed, fruit. So this is the land Claudia: Good seeds. Dimitra: Good Claudia: Yeah, it is.