Its name is... the Divorced Women's Market. Mauritanian women, when they get divorced, This is called the train of life. Mauritania is an Arab country Its capital is Nouakchott and its most important port Its population is 4.5 million. It gained independence Its area is one million square km and 90% of it is desert, the largest desert in the world. Its coastline extends 750 square km This is what they have on their currency, a camel, a ship, a Qur'an, and a train. We are in Mauritania, guys. Welcome. This is called Daraa, the national dress. You should roll up your sleeve like this. It is a modern city, Nouakchott. Let's get to know This Arab country where the desert meets the ocean. This doesn't happen only in Namibia, This mosque is the oldest in the city, because this city is modern Nouakchott has no ancient history. -Hello. Hello, hello. Mauritania. Let's go pray, guys. This Saudi mosque in the capital... Mauritania. ...was gifted to Mauritania during the reign of late King Faisal, in the 70s. It's the largest mosque -Nouakchott? -Mauritania? From north to south there's the Sahara, My outfit is spot on. -I'm from Chinguetti. Elegant like a groom. Consumed daily, which means tea. This is the local market in Mauritania. -Three to four times a day? -It's stronger than espresso, right? What a welcome! ...But they make it in a special way. Notice the foam they make in the cup These are Mauritanian traditions. This foam is done on purpose. They make foam in the cup I thought it was sugar at first. Now the Mauritanian tea is ready. In the name of God. It's like a stimulant. Its effect is stronger Stronger than everything. They drink this every day and everywhere, in cities and in the desert -Yes. Yes. -Welcome to Mauritania. The authentic drink! Good evening. Everything here is traditional, the tent, the Daraa, -And the tea. -Is this couscous? You feel as if Algeria, Morocco, because of their great similarity. Here in the Sahara Desert. Most Mauritanians they studied poetry and thus Mauritanians That's why they call it the country There is a Kuwaiti newspaper in the 60s, I think, and they found that people so they called Mauritania We are here hosted by the great poet... -What is your name? God bless you. It's a country that's been neglected due to the lack of resources It is a country of deserts, where they study Islam and the Qur'an, It has the longest trans-Saharan train It is a country of gold, Come, have a look. Imagine the sunset view here every day! Why don't people know much Natural gas was discovered here Next year they will start exporting and Mauritania, God willing, This market in Mauritania Mauritanian women. This is the Divorced Women's Market. We are here The percentage of divorced women but divorce in Mauritania is celebrated! The situation for Mauritanian women They will steal your camera. They will steal it? -They will steal it. They might steal it. No, no, we are in a safe -God willing. There are men more willing Divorced women in Mauritania have a higher chance But why? I will tell you the story. This entire market is theirs. Every Mauritanian woman and sells all the furniture in her house. Some women become traders here. An important note, after they get divorced! You sell all your furniture here, like... This entire furniture and... ...and the bags. Divorce is a sad occasion for you, -Divorce! When a woman is divorced here, A celebration for divorced women? She and I are divorced, Divorce for us as Muslims is normal. Divorce is a livelihood for us. Marriage is also a livelihood. -So you don't feel sad when you divorce. It's just a livelihood This is the way we view it. If a woman gets divorced, and improves her situation. -Divorce is not a problem for her. Not at all. It's just a livelihood There is nothing wrong with divorce. It's not a problem for us. These are your customs and traditions? Yes, it's normal for us. -Do you know what livelihood means? It's just a relationship that's over. Then someone else comes and the woman marries again. When a woman gets divorced, and then she marries someone. or he can leave in a short time this is the mauritanian women Because when a woman gets divorced, What's the reason? The reason is because she gets and more experienced. When someone leaves her, someone else comes and appreciates her Her new husband takes care of her But doesn't this encourage divorce? Yes, it encourages divorce. The new husband takes on my responsibility Mauritanian women are strong, aren't they? Very strong. Mauritanian women are very strong. They say this is because women in running the household. We don't have a deferred dower. -No deferred dower? They don't have deferred dower here -Is this all the furniture of the house? You took all the stuff I took all the furniture from my house We buy and sell furniture here. Mauritanian women have a large They are literally It is even strongly evident in the parliament and the ministries. ...Regarding the issue of human respect, follow the Sunnah of the Prophet Muhammad Follow that approach.