Many of us are working Did you ever wonder about your working day? For example, how much time Let's find out. (upbeat music) Okay, so I've logged into the Here I'm going to show you your admin has access to, and what they can extract from the system. So Teams has its own Let's get to it by going to show all, and going to the Teams admin center. Now let's take a look that are available to them. So under analytics and reports, we have different reports available here. So for example, apps usage. Let's go with the last 30 So here we can see the that are used within Teams. In this case, there are and two third-party apps. Now, this information is not So we can see they're two active users that use Trello, there four and so on. But we can't see which user Let's go back to our reports. If your company has you can get information that users spent in calls and also the cost of the calls, Under Teams device usage, you get to see what type to get to Teams. Whether it's Windows, Mac, What about Teams usage? Let's go and run this report and see what we get. So here we have the list and we get to see how within a Team, how many urgent messages, reactions, mentions and meetings that were Now if you click on a Team here, you get to see all the members of the Team and if you click on a specific member, you can find out a bit more For example, this person and one call. Under call history, you that this person was in. You can also see the duration of the call and the participants. So for example, on this I get to see who this meeting was with, the duration of the call is here, and I have more technical information about the devices they used for connection and also the IP address and so on. Now let's go back to the usage reports and see what we have under When I run the report here, I get an overview of the total reply messages and so on, but here I have the and their activity in Teams. So how many channel Reply messages, post total meetings. So here it's by user So how many one-on-one calls there was, the total audio time, total video time, even screen sharing time, and their last activity. It doesn't have a time stamp, it just have the date Okay, so this is the information Now what we looked at But what about the other apps? Do we get more information by person? Well, let's go back to the Let's take a look at reports. Here we have the productivity score. Now, this is on organization level only. So here it says, scores are not provided at the individual user level. This way you get to to a peer benchmark. It breaks it down into but all of this is on Now let's go to usage These reports show how are using 365 services. If I scroll down I can are using Microsoft 365 services and I can see this by service. Then I get to see the Microsoft 365 apps, but again this is general. So this is on organization level, I can't exactly see here which active user is using this app. I can also see email activity and Microsoft Teams activity. But let's take a closer so let's go to view more, Here I get to see all the user names, and I can see their last So here when was the or sent an email? When was the last time they or they did something Then we have Yammer here, and the last activity in Microsoft Teams. Okay, so this is the information The other information is all available on organizational level. So this is what can be currently tracked with Microsoft Teams. In my experience, working it's always better to For example, using Planner, rather than micro-managing each person and tracking their working hours. If you want to find check out this video which is going to give you I hope you found this video useful, if you did, don't forget and do subscribe to this channel, in case you aren't subscribed already. Thank you for watching and I'll see you in the next video. (upbeat music)