What will we do in the Happy Yemen? This is the Happy Yemen. Sayun, Shibam, Tarim, Wadi Dawan... Welcome to Yemen. ...and Mukalla. They are wonderful cities located in Yemen Wadi Dawan in Hadhramaut. Where we hear about the Hadhramis, Hadhramaut restaurants, and Sidr honey. This is a liquid gold. It's a precious treasure. It all comes from here. Our country. Mukalla city. This is their caviar, it's called Krash. This is Hadhramaut. Yemen has been present throughout history with its civilizations and kingdoms, starting with the Kingdom of Sheba, passing through the Rasulid, Zaidi, and Tahirid states, all the way to the era of the Republic. Yemen was present on the world map thousands of years and it was known as the Happy Yemen. O Hadhramaut, rejoice. Welcome to Hadhramaut. Hadhramaut! This is the first city How are you? Welcome, guys, to Yemen finally! In Sayun, Hadhramaut. You are welcome. Your visit is an honor for us, Sayun, Hadhrami food, Hadhrami culture, Yemen is a world in itself. We know that Yemen is called Happy Yemen. Is this a vintage ATM? This is the first thing you see, the palace of Sayun, which is one This is considered the largest This is the first thing you see Yemen is a vast country with an area of 555,000 km. Its territory extends and the Gulf of Aden in the south with a length of 1,500 kilometers and turns around the Bab al-Mandab Strait to head north to the governorates of Taiz, Al-Hudaydah and Hajjah in western Yemen, with a coastline about 750 km long and a population of 35 million. Hadhramaut's Mandi, the authentic dish. Of course. This is the most famous Yemeni dish You will find Mandi in restaurants called Hadhramaut. Today we will see how it's cooked in the largest kitchen This happens here in this kitchen Imagine, it's like this every day! They put chicken and meat underground Mandi lovers come here daily. This is how they make the authentic Mandi. This dish is very famous in Hadhramaut and then spread to all parts of the world. -It's the best in the world. They say that this seasoning and is the secret of authentic Mandi. They say they prepare... 700 chickens a day. Huge amounts of rice. There are 400 people who will eat this. He put the marinade on. This method is specific to chicken Mandi. He'll put the chicken down now. Now they will take the chicken out. This is how they strain the rice. It's like a waterfall of hot water, like a jacuzzi. This is the Biryani marinade. This is the authentic Biryani marinade. This is called Borma meat. This is the famous breakfast This is the breakfast... in Hadhramaut. Hadhrami breakfast. This is the most famous lunch We've been doing this for generations. Here in Sayun, which is the melon seeds. This is Al-Hanzal market. -This is Al-Hanzal. -There's a whole market for it? Free Palestine... Sidr honey is the finest type of honey. Contact us and we'll get it to you! Yemen is famous for producing honey, This is a local market Beekeepers and traders I'm a honey merchant in Sayun, Hadhramaut. Wadi Dawan in Hadhramaut is home to the finest honey in the world. God bless you. Thank you. You are famous for producing honey -The best in the world. This honey is from the valleys like Dawan and most Yes. This one costs $400. It's Sidr honey. &quot;In which there is healing for people.&quot; This one costs $700. This is honey from Dawan, as Sidr trees are widespread -From Dawan. We went to Wadi Dawan to visit an apiary. So that the bees don't sting you. Will they attack us? It's for protection. Only me? Okay. We make some smoke to calm the bees down. Then we search for a hive. This called a hive. -This is a hive? Bees go looking for flowers. This is the Sidr tree. This is the Sidr flower. Sidr honey is the best type of honey. If you do not wear a face mask, They could sting me now? It may cause you an issue such as an allergy or anything. Bees always defend their hive and honey. They are afraid So, they resist it? Look, it's going to sting me now. Look at it. Its stinger remains in the body She shoots and then leaves. They defend their hive. Until death? Until death, of course. They are strong Look, this is the queen. Okay, this is the Sidr honey. This is the liquid gold. In the name of Allah. It cleanse you inside. &quot;From you, Dawan's honey, Amazing! This is Yemen. From the door to the door. -Contact us... This 106-year-old man is a living example in strengthening the body's immunity The secret to maintaining health lies in Yemeni Sidr honey. I drive this big car alone Praise be to Allah. Long live Jordan! I'm Gaafar Mohammed Hussein Al-Sakkaf. I was born in 1918. 1918! -And he got married recently? four years ago. Now I am 106 years old. May Allah bless your lives This historian and writer and he knows the entire history He witnessed the First The First and Second World Wars. What is the secret to your longevity? Every day in the morning Seven dates? Seven dates from Madinah, and after that I also ate honey. Hadhrami honey? Yes, Hadhrami honey. For how many years For 105 years. God bless! He is still healthy. May Allah bless your life more and more. From the city of Seiyun, we drove for 15 minutes a city called Shibam, which is called Manhattan of the Desert, with its towering mud buildings that hug the sky and have been standing Do you see this gate It will take us to a historic city Manhattan of the desert. There is a Manhattan in New York, but this is Manhattan of the desert. In Yemen. -Were you born in Shibam? Do you love this city? Of course I love it, but all of Yemen, our country. What do you like most about this city? That it's a historical city. It's like an open museum. -You all know each other here? We are like one family. Do you see these windows? They say these were the first skyscrapers The first skyscrapers in the world. These are mud houses Before there were similar buildings these were the first skyscrapers They are mud houses. Look how many windows! All residents know each other here. Because of the floods besieging they had no solution From seven to 15 floors. This is what you see Look, this is one of the skyscrapers. This is great! Look at the view! You are welcome. Our homes are open to host you. The city of Shibam You cannot rule Hadhramaut -Because it's commercially... Shibam is a historical, with its mud buildings and the concentration so our joys and sorrows are one. The people of the city they are as interconnected Then we moved to the city of Tarim, the capital of Islamic culture, where there were 400 mosques. It is the capital of Islamic culture From Sayun, then on the other side of the city, the city of Tarim. This is the famous Hadhrami tea? Yes, this is the famous Hadhrami tea. -These are the accessories? -This is called Bukhari tea. It has different colors, Although Yemen is famous for its coffee, they drink tea every day. They have all these accessories The tea here has different colours, Wonderful! This art is called Al-Dan, You will see how he hums now. This art came from this city, It was the capital of many kingdoms This is the Almihdhar Mosque and this minaret is said to be We met this man by chance Here in Tarim. -Hello. Peace be upon you. Peace be upon you. -Peace and mercy be upon you. -Indonesia. Yes. -Peace be upon you. How are you? This is our other friend and is of German origin. I came here mainly to learn Arabic My intention was to stay here for a year but after living here for a year, -Really? Happy Yemen is a charming place! You're also wearing the traditional dress! Yeah, I've become a Hadhrami. I loved Yemen more than my country. My country is beautiful, Yemenis are one of the best people. This is his tent. We must drink coffee. Did you build this tent? Yes, praise be to Allah. Look at the view he has. Praise be to Allah. He says he is comfortable here and away -I'm the one who should invite you. -So Yemen is not a dangerous place? Please have a seat, come on in. You must pour with the left hand so you can give him the cup -Like Bedouins? What does shaking the cup mean? It means he doesn't want more. In the name of Allah. In the name of Allah. I loved the atmosphere the culture here is beautiful. There is nothing more beautiful not the Yemeni culture alone, From Yemen to Morocco to Jordan. The problem in the West Wadi Dawan. The next day, to Wadi Dawan. We are in the city of Alhajrain, This is the city of Alhajrain, The main reason is to avoid floods because we are located in a valley. Its population is about 4000. It was considered a strategic city during the era of the Hadhramaut Kingdom and the Himyarite state. -Are you the goalkeeper? It looks like an island. There are bridges between homes Look at this place we are in. It is located on top of the mountain You sleep here on top of the mountain These are all valleys. Our journey continues We will sleep here It's on the edge, right? Yes, it's on top of the mountain. Look at the mountain. A tour of my room in Yemen. You must see the hospitality They say that Sanaa but we are not finished yet, We are still in Hadhramaut in the south. Wait to see the view from there. This is the view from here. I think this is the highest You won't even see this view in Arizona. We will sleep here tonight This is our view for today. Then we headed to Mukalla, the capital of Hadhramaut and its gateway to the world. This is the river that divides the city. We wandered through its old and tried its most famous foods, and the first food was street food, Krash. They are selling something called Krash. Krash -It gives you Energy? This is the best street food. -I'm addicted to Krash. Yes. They say that the city of Mukalla is the third most important city in Yemen The people here are very welcoming and treat guests as if they were locals. This is the famous coastal city and this is one of their most Krash is a dish made of fish entrails. You will see it everywhere. Peace be upon you. It's our traditional meal. It's their traditional meal. Look at these crowds. Look at this marinade. This is special for Krash. Special for Krash. There is a specific time to eat it, and you will not find anyone Some call it caviar. It's like caviar to them. Try the liver and spawns, that's the liver. Fish liver. In the name of Allah. Salty fish. Does it provide you Yes, it is rich in protein It tastes great, Yes, but this is The name "Krash" comes from fish guts. This is shark liver. You will now see -There's a difference in quality, right? The spices taste great. It's like you're eating caviar, but it's Yemeni caviar. Look at the sea, it is red. You have defeated Japan. These foods, such as krash and Sayadiya, are considered among Look at this. They depend entirely on sea food. Look at the size of this fish, it's huge! They love seafood in Mukalla. Look at this, you are in Yemen. You should go and see the Lakhm, They eat dried shark and they call Lakhm. Hello. How are you? We will take a sea tour and see where they catch the fish that you saw in the fish market. Captain Raed will take us on a tour. Let's go. Look at that. It's so similar to Mauritania. The sea here is rich. We will now try the fish First, I want to introduce to you Yes, the General Director Yemen is culturally diverse the atmosphere is different It's a major tourist destination. But the current war and have reduced the presence of tourists. But Socotra Island is full of tourists Okay, okay. They have one of the most beautiful It's close to here and we should visit it. On the second day, we went to have a popular breakfast Good morning. Peace be upon you. We came here for breakfast at 7 a.m. What do the people of Mukalla This is called Albakhmari. It is a dough that is fried in oil. People gather here every morning to eat Albakhmari. It's to them what falafel It's fried dough. This is Albakhmari. I would like milk tea with it. Milk tea with Albakhmari? -It's a must, right? So good. It's really delicious. They say you should drink People are gathered around this drink, so let's see is what the secret. This is our famous coffee, which is a Swahili word, -From Tanzania and Kenya? Here they drink coffee called... Its name is Tangawesi. Tangawesi is a Swahili word, -when Yemen was connected to the world. From this land, the land of Hadhramaut, the land of Yemen, the Hadhramis spread throughout the earth, carrying with them the message in their dealings and trade. They had the greatest impact Because of them, millions of people and they were the reason for the establishment of major that affected the economies They occupied prominent scientific, in many countries of the world The ingredients are almonds, These people are here to drink Tangawesi. Tangawesi is good? This is Hadhrami Tangawesi coffee. In the name of Allah. It tastes like a mixture Tangawesi. We want our country God willing. There is hope, Yemen is oppressed, right? In the media, the war also has a role, Do you think there is hope? I see hope. Okay, okay. Here is the hope. I see great hope. We left the city of Mukalla which is the home and which they perform Like this, look! The Iddah dance, which is a military dance I got a wedding in Yemen! Is this a wedding celebration for me? You will celebrate for me again? Let's go, one more time. It's considered a military dance, in which the Dargah and stick are used. The people of Ash Shihr were able, to defeat the Portuguese invasion. The people of Yemen are mostly young, with youth comprising more than 70%. They aspire to peace and progress after long years of marginalization, in which wounds and pain have deepened. They invite you everywhere you go. Despite all this, young people prove themselves... Welcome to Yemen. ...and introducing the world Will Yemeni wisdom win for the sake of Yemen See you in part II from North Yemen. Don't forget to subscribe to the channel and like the video!