[school bell rings] Hello, class. Your homework assignment as the U.S. states A flag to stir pride in your citizens. A flag to stand proud on the American stage. A tough task, though not too tough with the guidelines I gave you upon One. Keep it simple. Something a child could draw. Even if they need to simplify Two. Make it distinct at a distance. A flag is not a poster, it's it's not money, or anything No tiny details. It's a flag. It will be flying from afar among other flags and when the wind stops, you still Three colors or fewer unless you really know what you're doing. But if you think you do, you probably don't. Four. Symbols. Have them. Your colors and what you design It should say something about your citizens. Five. Words on a flag. The ideal number is zero. It's a flag, not a note that Thank you. I'll take that. If you violated this rule, I hope you hid those And there is one thing you are Because a flag is not a name tag. If you wrote your name on your No exceptions. All right, let's just get a quick Hold up your flags, please. [papers rustle] :: sigh :: All right, because you are all so Internet, to keep your attention, you're getting put on a tier list from S to F. S for 'Super'! F for, you guessed it, 'you Failed'. And I can see that so many of you did already. The F tier is going to be absolutely bursting, so we're going to break it down S to F for the F tier. All right, let's just get Kansas, Montana, Wisconsin, Oregon, that's you. I'm sorry, get up here. You guys and so many of your classmates That all you blue belles, by copying each other, have each made each other so much worse in the distinct-at-a-distance department. And you four, you started with seals But signing that seal, so much sorrier. And Montana... this kerning! My eyes can only take so much! Wisconsin, unironically, a cheese-based Do that. And oh? An objection from Oregon. You have a different design on the back? And this is so much better, You should just ditch the front of Hey, I wouldn't be laughing, California. It's your turn up here now. And I know you think your flag is awesome, but you seem to have scrawled And don't think bragging about the I know all about that phase that lasted - what was it again, Rather a shorter time than some And about your bear. Look at him. Really look, California. That's a scared bear. Why did you draw him that way? This is A tier, but F tier. Hey, are you crying? There's no crying in flag design. There's just doing better, which you easily can. Next, Dakota sisters, you're up! And you've both written But North, your seal is at least And South, you've picked a brighter so I'll put you on tier with your sister. But wait, did you write F tier twice then. But suggestion, Dakotas. You both obviously like this spiky design element, so maybe you could do a cool You know, bring some of that Now all of you listen up. Today is not the final day of your judgement. Better is always an option. Take Miss Mississippi. She started with this flag but recently felt it didn't fit her Yes, she added words, which I will as hidden as words can be then she put her favorite flower in the center, which is a bit too complicated for my liking. But you know what? This flag symbolically says Exactly what a flag needs to do. Solid C. And let her serve as a model of achievable Especially California. Thank you Miss Mississippi, you can sit down now. Next up, Nebraska. At least you didn't write your F, D. Vermont. Not terrible for F tier, obviously. Best looking seal so far, I guess. C tier. Maine, you wrote your name I can't believe you girls are even making Uhh... F tier, C tier. Ugh. I'm getting blue-blinded. Can someone help me out here? [angelic chorus sings] New Mexico. What vexillological virtuosity is this? A design in the center, so simple Done with bold colors that match It's enchanting. Need I even say the words New Mexico? S tier. Thank you for giving me hope. Okay, back to the blue belles. New Hampshire, seal on blue. But you did kind of go all in on the I didn't think I needed a rule to say that but here you are with three. F, B. Connecticut. Fan of the grapes, huh kid? Nah, I'm good thanks. Purple is objectively the worst color. But you know what? You could do something with In the meantime, F, D. Enjoy your grapes. Michigan, 'Circumspice'? Yeah, I will and all I see is more boring blue. F, D. Can anyone do blue, but good? Ahh, Alaska. Look at this ladies. The northernest state showing off the And she didn't feel the need Which must have been pretty tempting... eh, California? And even better, the companion is but the tail of Ursa Major, the animal most associated with this state How clever, Alaska. I simply must give you the Best Bear Award. This flag is pretty top tier. Buuuut, the low contrast design it difficult to differentiate at a distance. Especially in, say, dark winters. And it breaks my brain that your official vertical orientation is for the North star, top star. Look, this is an amazing patch which I think comes pre-installed so your citizens obviously love it. It's a good flag. It's the best bear. Best in B tier. Oh sorry, Miss Missouri, I didn't Two bears, no, wait. There's a bear on the seal the bears are holding? You definitely win the most bears, darling. And most stars with, wow, sixty-one! Thirteen for the original thirteen which you put inside your seal for seal-ception. Then twenty-four stars for your Twice. It's very busy and you put all those bears the most basic of all flag designs. But blessed be, you didn't write D tier. Anyone else who didn't write their name? Ah, Rhode Island, you wrote 'hope', This is also quite the square but I guess with the anchors and the colors. And it works. C tier. On to the Commonwealth Club. No more hiding in the back, it's your turn. Commonwealth of Massachusetts. At least it's not blue and it's sort of simple in comparison, of course. F, C. Kentucky, I know you like but you can't write it on your flag. Well you can, but you're Pennsylvania! If you're going to do and you didn't write 'Commonwealth F tier, B tier. And come on up, captain of the club. Commonwealth of Virginia, Oh god! Are you trying to get me demonetized? Your flag has nudity, murder, But you know what, Virginia? F, B. Oh hi, Ohio. Another oddly shaped flag. You know this is more of Right, you do. Well, it's very much 'Murica. I'm gonna to give it a B. Next up, Delaware. Delaware, fully writing out the date on I know you're the forgotten state and you want to emphasize but there's got to be a better way. F, F. Wyoming. Let me tell you something, Wyoming. Let me tell you what I foresee When age or end times come. When my work is finished and forgotten. I will travel to your great One with a cozy cabin, a porch out shotgun across my lap, I will watch the For me, for us all. And in the sky above this scene, I will But I will have to get it custom needless seal you've stamped in the center. A seal upon which you have written your name. It's so close to epic, but for now I must, by my own unbreakable rule, give it an F. But S tier F obviously. Now who's going to be next, all the I's. You're up, starting with Idaho. You wrote your name twice, I can't even right now. F, F. Iowa. You've got your name too and Have you won the most words award? Oh, no, not even close. Idaho beat you for twelve, to tie with Nebraska. To be beaten by Wyoming for thirteen. And first place goes to South But that doesn't make this any less F tier, obviously, but at least it's much 'Murica, so F tier, A tier. Indiana. The colors are similar to Alaska, but with more And you've done your own thing It's pretty good, I'm going to give it an.... What are you doing? F tier, A tier. Sit down. Last of the I's, Illinois. You've also gone with an eagle, And your backwards 'sovereignty' on the But a flag is not a painting, and Why? Oh, this is literally just the seal of Illinois on a white background written It's terrible. F tier, F tier. Colorado. I feel like you're really trying to The design is simple while still But this giant 'C', it's a little on And you know what else it is? It's writing. Writing on a flag. C for C tier. And don't point to Ohio. She did it better. Most people didn't even notice the 'O'. Next, Minnesota. Terrible - ooph - this is just terrible. Your name isn't as big and but the busyness is bottom-tier bad. Wisconsin, I was too harsh on you before. This is the worst flag in the Union. Come on Minnesota. You're America's blonde scion of Scandinavia. A classic flag designs itself. But this, I need a visual palette cleanser now. Ahh, Alabama. Can't go wrong with a simple shape. Identifiable at a distance, vertical So much more can be done with so much less. This flag would fit in on the international stage. A for Alabama. State of West Virginia, home of hearty Appalachia. You deserve better than this. F, D. Arkansas. You know what, Arkansas? Even with writing your name I think you've made it kind of work. I can't pass you, obviously, but it's very 'Murica and diamonds are your thing. I'm going to give it F tier, A tier. And speaking of words that work... Get up here, Nevada. Now, obviously, this flag is but you get the award for the two Battle. Born. BATTLE. BORN. It's awesome. And unlike some other states trying to big you really did become a state for the Union I can't believe I'm going to say this, but if two words ever deserve to 'Battle Born' are those words. Do it, Nevada. Do it, do it, do it. Maryland. Oh, my, it's... hideous. So hideous it falls right off the S tier Maryland. I don't care what anyone says. Wear it with pride. Louisiana, that pelican is vulning herself? Which is a heraldic term Making you the only flag to show actual blood. I must remind you that a flag is not F, B. Tennessee. I think people underrate your flag, Tennessee partly because of this blue bar on the side, which seems a bit random but was added to keep it distinct when flying And your three stars are for the three grand divisions of your rather This flag on screen, it's a B. But in the air, it's an A. Washington. Washington. A flag is not money, Washington. And this is real extra awkward because absolutely wrecked you with this A-tier flag by adapting his family coat of arms not drawing his facey face. But at least it's money green F, C. Hawaii. I have complicated feelings It's ugly, but in a bit of The eight stripes for the eight islands don't align at all with the Union Jack, which is also historically confused, as you were never part of the British empire. You instead just took their flag to use for your Well, you didn't write 'Kingdom of Hawaii' and if an American flag was a I'm going to give it a B. Oklahoma. Ah, you're another real heartbreaker here, kid. We're just going to ignore which is not a seal, but a buffalo Much cooler. And with a pipe of the Plains the olive branch for Europeans You've done by far the best job of symbolically trying to address something very Minnesota. I'm giving it an F, C, because there's Carolina sisters, South first. It's a bit disjointed. And I know you love the palmetto, but And it's weird because you have the Angel Oak, one of the most famous and which could make a much better design and then there would be zero chance of But unlike California, you didn't But this complicated plant in the center, D tier. North next. Now I'm totally biased toward my adoptive state. And when I see this flag flying around Raleigh, it provokes in me pride of old North even if it does look a bit too But if I'm trying to be consistent. I can't give a flag with not just I don't think either of you So many others are ahead of you on that line, but perhaps you sisters could, like the Dakotas, consider a Carolinian combo for the future. Could be cool. Next, New Jersey. That color is a real choice. But you know what? At least it stands out and your seal isn't awful. F tier, B tier. Arizona. A tier awesome, Arizona. You've got a red and yellow sunset that looks like your state and is also a I know some don't like the copper star, but They are wrong. Because you're the copper queen! And it also makes me think Did I already say A tier, Arizona? A tier, Arizona. New York, New York. I'm a native son of your great of all the flags, yours is Sure, your seal is better Whatever. But you are the Empire State, If you aspire to that awesome moniker, how do you think your flag compares to say... this. Let's just visit London real Union Jacks for sale everywhere, Because U.K. did S tier work. Back in London, sister city of New And are you really going to let New Jersey New Jersey. Excelsior to S tier, New York. Now, get out of here. Georgia! All right, I'm real split over your flag here. I feel like it almost kind of works with the And it's a little bit too much like North Carolina whichisalittlebittoomuchlikesomebodyelse You didn't write your name, but D tier. All right, enough foreshadowing. Get up here, Texas. You already know this is an A-tier flag. I don't need to tell you that, but you've You and your citizens love and use this flag, And you're getting the bonus Floooriiidaaa. Did you... did you just copy And you wrote your name on it? F tier. But, A tier, only because Please try again. On your own, this time. And last up, it's you, Utah. Oh, I see you have a last minute redesign in hand Which is it gonna be? You have chosen wisely. This is a great and meaningful flag. The symbol for the industry of your built on your red rocks before the It's A tier. But class, the most important is not just knowing the rules written out but what is inside the heart This flag with bees and bestagons, for me, it can't be but S tier. [school bell rings] Class dismissed.