- Hey smart people. Joe here. And this is a It's like two dots and a line, but I'm willing to bet when it said &quot;face&quot; I think that was weird. Well, it was, but I've been Like this washing machine has a face, this building has a face, and And this pepper is even angrier. Probably because it got cut in half. Everywhere I look, it's Has this ever happened to you? Of course it's happened to you. Seeing faces in non-human every culture experience. I mean, there's a whole You and I are not alone. It's given us art, movies and more memes than you can So what sort of collective malfunction is happening in our face- obsessed brains? Surprise! Your brain is doing what human brains do. And this video is all about why and how your brain sees That's right. Your brain's That's deep. Almost as deep as whatever see phantom faces everywhere. The term we're looking Our tendency to see faces in objects where there aren't any actual faces. pareidolia is a cool word. It would make a cool band name, except I already count Spotify with that name. So maybe not, but I digress. As far as your brain's not a bug. We homo sapiens are faces. And it makes sense, we're social animals. So being able to identify the mugs of our fellow species bonds and stay safe, right? On the flip side, of things that want to hurt So it's not hard to see why yeah, let's keep this little Picking out faces, identifying them and figuring out if their friends or foes happens really as the blink of an eye. Quick sidebar. Here's an extremely condensed version Okay, light goes in here, hits cells here, which send chemical and and those signals end up mainly here in this part of your brain. The visual cortex. Why they put the seeing end from the eyeball part, I don't know. I didn't design this thing. Interpreting millions and trying to turn them into what the world actually It's a lot for one little So the primary visual cortex coordinator dividing up that work. When visual data comes in, it of the brain. Edges and lines? That's here. Motion? That That goes here. This division of visual information are sent to different processing areas, that helps our brains figure out what we're looking at even faster. But honestly, take a look Take an honest look at all needs to interpret or ignore. It's a lot! To keep this visual information Our visual traffic controller The where and the what pathways. Information like movement and where things are located by brain cells along the wear pathway. But figuring out what something Telling the difference or an adult person or two Well, that happens here. But wait, how does your brain Well, scientists have discovered as two small dots on top of a third dot arranged in contrasting background, that's enough for our brain to scream, &quot;Face&quot; The spacing between the features or the details they do or don't contain, they that basic arrangement. Our brain spots this pattern so fast that it's nearly automatic. Basically, you have a face When your brain spots a layout, specific brain light up first. But then these other slower areas catch up, what you actually see. What this means is when of your brain unconsciously screams &quot;face&quot; and then other parts of your and says, no, that's not actually a face. This is why when we we can switch back and forth and seeing the thing Because we're seeing almost automatic face finding ability is what got researchers with our amazing face detection software? Or do we learn it? To figure that out, scientists stuck babies as young as six days old in MRI machines to look at their brain activity. How they did that, I have no idea, but they found that the of those babies' brains signals to one another. Just like in adults. This a big clue that homo sapiens are born with a hardwired ability to even when we're nothing more But while those MRIs are they're not a hundred percent Other researchers think and identify faces is We know from studies in with an ability to see These are things that we learn to see by seeing them as babies. And study after study has shown that babies prefer because we're always sticking And because babies are born with, well, pretty bad vision, to be honest. And the high contrast and movement of our faces are one of the few things they And over time, babies learn with things like comfort and food. That trains us to look for faces and identify different So yeah, scientists are of our ability to see and and how much we're born with. But figuring this stuff out is important because it will let us develop of millions of people or face blindness. That means maybe some of Honestly, it's really the to confuse me for Hank Green or Keith from the try, I don't even see it. Okay, fine. I do. We're also learning that people with Alzheimer's disease may have issues with the visual processing And understanding how brain regions and our visual cortex work autism earlier to help kids Because being able to see faces, it's a really important You don't have to take my Evolutionarily speaking, it's better to assume something is a face and be wrong than ignore And well, you know, face recognition also helps us figure out what others are feeling so that we have more meaningful That way we react one way and another if they look sad or upset. Our ability to judge people's emotions by their facial features for objects too. It's why this person's And these onions definitely are non-faces can even shape human behavior. For example, a group of that we are more attracted and companies can take to sell more stuff. Another study found that cars that looked like they sellers than others. Unless you're a tough dude-bro. Because it looks and you definitely lift. And don't skip leg day, which we know 'cause you drive - Faces can even push us to And biologists realize that domesticated dogs have faces that let them wiggle their eyebrows. Wolves don't have those muscles. It turns out that doggy with us, and that helped them survive. Since the cuter the puppy dog to share our fire and food with them. Adorable evolutionary So understanding how and why we see faces not only but it can give of evolution too. So let's face the facts. We know our brains love faces. So when you see a schnoz on your squash, cara in a calabaza, a or a kao in your bao, remember Stay curious. Thanks so much for sticking If you did make it this with your favorite face emoji. And as always, thank you to everyone who supports the show on Patreon, including these fine folks right here who I assume have wonderful faces. And you and your face can and learn how you can Find out about new videos before anybody else in the entire universe, as far as I can tell. Well, there's a link down in the description if you wanna learn more. We'll see you in the It's really the only excuse ... for contugf ... continuing to confuse me ... for Hank Green Hey smart people.