Translator: Nawwar Alshroof What would it take to transform your life, to transform Kurdistan, to transform the world? I'm Lena Kay. And I empower people to transform so that then they can achieve Today, I'm going to share with you to transform any area of my life. It's what my friends, to transform their health, relationships, I'll also share with you But first I want to tell you a story who was a refugee. Bonen Arbil - the doctors told his mother and that he would be stillborn. His mother gave birth, the doctor announced him dead A nurse came in, slapped him a few times A few years later, when Saddam was bombing the Kurds the little boy's family They went horse-back through mountains, and eventually, ended up He went to school, college, university. And by that time his family and weren't the wealthiest, so he got a part-time job because London is one of the most The company he was working for They offered him money He did. He managed ten gambling And he'd done that for several years And again, they saw leadership skills, and they promoted him to be team leader. Everything looked good on the outside. But on the inside, Have you ever put a smile on your face when on the inside there is a storm? Turbulent relationships with his family And he found himself depressed, with a brain tumor, living in a homeless hostel, In his mid-20s, he had a breakdown. He went from corporate leadership He hated his life, he hated and he wanted change so badly. But things seemed to go from bad to worse. Every time he took a step forward, something happened He was spiraling Then one day, he discovered that changed his life forever. It was talking about the power of the mind and how you are not a victim you are a creator of them. He thought, &quot;How could this be? I created my pain? He thought, &quot;Surely someone So he'd done some research What he found difficult to find You see, physics says that reality Neuroscience says your brain Religion says you are created And spirituality says that life doesn't happen to you, He liked the idea. He thought, &quot;If I created my own hardship, Against the advice of the doctors, and he started to self-heal. What does this mean? It means he was able to create using his mind than the medicated drugs. He got better. He repaired the relationships he replaced his television with books, and he improved See, no one told him that helped him change his life. Not the education system, not religion, not the government, and nobody around him. And now he discovered this powerful truth, he wanted to share it He trained, he coached, and he helped so they can achieve what they want. You see that little boy statistically as a refugee, statistically as someone who suffered from depression statistically as someone But he decided to change his life, and the only way was by changing the way he thinks. Now, everything in that story is true, The little boy was actually a little girl, and that little girl was me. (Applause) In the process of my own healing, my father was diagnosed In the last five years, he's forgotten how to read, how to write, and he's forgotten who his wife is I remember a friend told me years ago: &quot;People don't really value their minds until they see someone Let me ask you. Because it is the most In my process of healing I used the following three steps. And they worked for me; This is where you can get and you can relate it to your life. I could talk to you for the whole but we don't have that luxury of time. So, Step One is &quot;focus and attention equals creation.&quot; Most people, they lose Step One is so important for you to focus on what you want, what's your dream, and stick to it. This is not the time to get practical. People, they think, &quot;Oh, I'd love to have this, I'd love Or they talk to someone Don't be practical in Step One. This is just about focusing, Make sure you write it down. Because the brain You see, most people, and they get more problems. Why? Because what you focus on, So, focus on what you want. The second step. (Chuckles) Ok, your ideas are very very powerful. Because ideas change the world. Everything on this planet besides nature was once an idea in the mind OK! Step Two is your &quot;self-mastery.&quot; What do you believe Because you see life it gives you what you believe. If what you want is here life will give you this every single time. So self-mastery is but knowing because you are designed - OK. Your clicker guys. OK. You're designed to win It is so important what you believe in, and your self-mastery, I worked with a woman. and doctors told us she has arthritis I said, &quot;Don't worry about What matters is what you believe.&quot; I said, &quot;Focus on the good leg. Give praise for the parts Maybe exercise a little bit.&quot; We worked on her belief system. In three weeks, she told me In six months, what was amazing was that her blood test showed and the doctors said her knee What you believe is very very important. Self-mastery, this is your inner work. Only you can do this work, So, when you go home today, think about what you want, and your job is to line them up Step Three is &quot;take action.&quot; But wait. Imagine you go forward and everything in your life Your health, your business, You are more happy, healthy, successful and loved than you ever have been. Would you think, feel and, act The answer's usually &quot;Yes.&quot; What I suggest is you act Don't wait for five years You can feel like that today, Then you take the next step, I worked with a client. He wanted to become a manager. I said, &quot;OK, act like it; Because leadership is an attitude.&quot; I said, &quot;Work hard. Have a good attitude. Stay behind later. Arrive on time.&quot; It took several weeks. His company approached him. They wanted to train him And now he has a better You can achieve whatever you want. We can create whatever changes if we focus, we align our emotions and our beliefs, So Step Three is about imagining And then from that new conscious Why am I telling you all this anyway? I'll share with you some things that helped me understand this And then I'll tell how this is relevant Negative thoughts and emotions, So judgement, complaining, it weakens your body. Scientists say, &quot;We have But 90% of them are the same ones The problem of that is, that the same thoughts that create the same action, And then you get the same thoughts, You see, most people wait for them to change. But life is totally opposite. You must change on the inside Let me ask you something. Who here has a mobile phone, laptop, Please put your hands up. OK, great, thank you. But if I told you, &quot;I sent you an email with a virus that would destroy all the data Hands up - how many people OK, so no one would open an email But you download viruses into the most Your brain. Negative thoughts are like a virus. It is very important because the more negative they train you. They train your thoughts, they train your expectation It's called &quot;television Yes, it can be used for good sometimes. However, what would happen if you just switched What would you do? I don't know. Maybe you read books. Maybe you had more intimate conversations. Maybe you found You see, everyone wants society to change. Everyone wants social transformation. But you can not have social transformation A few years ago, I saw Kurdistan and then drop again so drastically. Because as wonderful as it was to see there was one vital factor The minds and development of the people. When it comes to negative programming, it is very important Because only then can we change it. Bare with me, OK? Look, the history of Kurdistan You know from waterfalls and mountains and natural springs, We know where Kurdistan has been. We know where Kurdistan is today. But where are we headed? And who gets to decide? What would happen in the hearts of every man and woman? A revolution of self-transformation because self-education What would happen? Because - Is it right that more people know than they know about their own What about that there is more make-up You know, I read a shocking &quot;90 percent of women are not happy So then, what is the benefit that are being trained &quot;It's OK to be a Ferrari with no engine?&quot; When will we stop ignoring the fact that young girls are committing What about our women, who are sitting for hours and hours that play with their emotions while making What is their option? It's shameful for them You see, we know where Kurdistan has been. But who gets to decide the future? Something has to change The world is in two extremes. And we will get there. That's why it's good (Applause) It's not working, guys. (Applause). We only have two slides to go. We can do this team, come on. Yes, that's the one. That's the one, yes. So I'll just tell you Look, the world is in two extremes. Extreme poverty, extreme And then extreme abundance, like we've never seen before thanks to technology. What if the future was a reflection of you? Because, you see, I believe But we can stil l look after the people Next slide, please. What if the future of your thoughts, your emotions, your actions, your consciousness? Because it is. The future won't be what you want. It will be who you are Go for what is in your heart Apply these three steps to any area Focus on what you want. Do the inner work that only you can do. Beause self-mastery, once you master Focus on what you want. Go for what is in your heart. The next slide, please. Go for what is in your heart. Believe in yourself. Believe in what you want. And never stop taking action towards it. Together, we are strong. In segregation, when we're divided, The future is you. And one awaken lion is more powerful But the lion does not eat He takes action. And that action comes from within. Focus on what you want, It will be yours. You will feast on your success. Thank you. (Applause)