What's this what is this It's really evil, it's a ghost fire What ghost fire? Let's go and have a look Where is the surveillance room? In the small house at the south end of the alley take me OK, let's go Hey, it's been 10 minutes. Why hasn't the first team come back yet? Well, look He is back I am the wolf's den I am the wolf's den Reports by region Area 1, Wolf's Den Area 1 is normal Area 2 Region 2, did you hear that? This is area 2 Yes hurry up Region 2, Region 2, please answer Wolf's Den Wolf's Den I am number 2 I am number 2 everything is normal Area 3 Area 3, Area 3 is normal Area 4 Area 4 is normal Area 5, No. 5 Area 5 is normal Contact in 10 minutes Are you also communicating with Sita through this stepper? Exactly very good Wow, what a bright flashlight This is the American-made Maglatte flashlight. With focusing function Many times brighter than ordinary flashlights Don' t move, who are you? I am Brother Lu Yunfei's subordinate Carry the walkie-talkie and follow me Where to go You talk a lot. good You did very well From now on you are my helper Come with me Brother Yan, what are we doing here? what is this Detonating cord Why is the detonator here? I just planted a bomb in the workshop This is the detonating wire that was thrown out. What? You planted a bomb in Area 1? follow me good Will you use a detonator ? meeting You take the detonator back to the surveillance room. After returning, pay attention to the movement of the transmitter You just need to hear Sita calling number 2 understand Immediately detonate the bomb Well, Sita called No. 2 and detonated the bomb Can I trust you Don't worry, I have no choice. Let's go, okay I am the wolf's den I am the wolf's den Reports by region Area 1, Wolf's Den Area 1 is normal, Area 2 is normal Area 2 is normal Area 3 Area 3 Did you hear that Area 3 is normal Area 4 Area 4 is normal Area 5, No. 5 Area 5 is normal Contact in 10 minutes Wake up, everyone. I am the wolf's den I am the wolf's den Reports by region Reports by region Region 1 Area 1, Wolf's Den, Area 1 Normal Area 2 what sound Like a communicator No. 2 Everything is OK Why is there a communicator here? Yeah, that's weird. Let's go and have a look. Area 4 Area 4 is normal Area 5 Area 5 is normal Contact in 10 minutes There is a situation what happened Chairman Li and General Manager Du Look Someone broke into the second workshop in area 1. No.1 No.1 I am the wolf's den I am the wolf's den Command each firepower point Random Shooting Random Shooting This is a really tragic way to die. Wolf's Den Wolf's Den I am Duma I have left area 1 I have left area 1 Activate the vibration monitor Activating the vibration monitor is Not Yan Shuangying Theta Calling No.2 Theta Calling No.2 Theta Calling No.2 Sita Call No.2 Yan Shuangying It's Yan Shuangying coming It's orange Chairman Li, someone has entered Area 1 No. 1 No. 1 I am the wolf's den I am the wolf's den If there is an intruder, open fire at will. Fire at will How could there be a bomb in the workshop? Stop Shooting Double Eagle, bro elder brother Without further ado Everyone, get out of here, retreat, go Boss, they They ran away It must be Yan Shuangying's doing. They ran from there, chased, yes, walked quick Quick, they're there, shoot! You lead the brothers to the West Tower I put two packs of weapons on top of the tower Lead everyone to defend the West Tower Bro, what about you? Stop talking nonsense, hurry up Brothers, chase! Brothers, Yan Shuangying has been suppressed, charge! Sita Call No.2 Sita Call No.2 Sita Call No.2 Sita Call No.2 See where you can run to, quick Brother, how is it? Are they all up? All arranged We two are here to meet you, okay Go fast shooting Retreat to the West Tower elder brother Here it is shooting Run away Li Kang's men are a bunch of rubbish. CEO Can't blame them. The door of the West Tower is too small Besides, the other party is condescending. Should we withdraw first? Think of another way Yeah, throw a grenade. Quick retreat Defend the Entrance good Brothers, gather in front of the East Tower. Quick It's really lively Big Brother What are you doing here? You'll understand in a moment. CEO Um We are all ready Well, let's send two brothers to test it out first. Chairman Li, let's start First group Prepare to attack yes Stop Shooting Start the attack Ah, it went up. Old Du, this idea of yours is really brilliant See where they go this time. Let the brothers attack. good Um ah Ahhh Ahhh good good Hey You monitor them Report any situation to me immediately good Pay attention to concealment Very clear go Baoyu Xiaoqiang immediately organized all the manpower Assault Tower You must call me down. Ready to fight Come on up No, shoot! Beat them to death Hey Strange Why is there no one? People are evil Could it be that they flew up into the sky? They escaped They're running. Chase them. ah Ah, what happened? Come on, get me there Come on, come on, come on Walk quick quick Brother Yan boarding quick You have to be careful Um quick careful Go to the interview soon Xiaoqiang is dead Where is Ye Chuiying? Where is the weeping eagle? They are clearly in the tower How come it disappeared? I don't believe he can fly. Will he fly into the sky? Search for me Search for me President, there was a big commotion here tonight. It will definitely alert the security forces here. If we don't evacuate now, it might be too late. I don't care. I don't care, I must kill Ye Shuangying Must kill him yes The brothers searched carefully . yes The president is not good The Communist Army is coming! drive ah Oh ah drive Double Eagle Pledge He is moving the tower Shoot, shoot Brothers, concentrate your firepower on him. clown withdraw Brothers, get up! Get out of here! Get out of here! Brothers, get up! Just rush out of this door and you can survive No one can survive if they stay here and wait for the Communist Party Want to survive Let me rush out Ah, Brother Yan Stop Shooting Stop Shooting The people inside are listening Surrender immediately You know our policy. Hand over the gun and don't kill Keep resisting brothers The boss ran away What are we fighting for? Surrender, surrender. Surrender Surrender Surrender All trapped people, listen up. Raise your hands Line up and walk out Walk Go fast Walk Walk do not move quick brothers Are you all done, brothers? Don't worry, President. Keep the green mountains No need to worry about firewood Let's leave quickly. Let's go. What do you want to say? Brother Yan, what should I do from now on? I can't live without light radiation. I think What do you think? I've heard that you're an amazing person. I saw it with my own eyes today It really lives up to its reputation You are not a human being I'm not a human Oh no That was not what I meant I mean you are God The Unkillable God It's not as exaggerated as you say. If you can't catch or kill him, he is a god. This is all my true words Even our CEO Du is such a powerful person I'm so scared when I mention you You want to follow me Um Can But you have to finish your work in Guangfu Society. Ah You also asked me to return to Guangfu Society Yes, there is something very important. You have to do it for me whats the matter The time has come I'll tell you Um Oh where do you live? I am in Yulinli, Zhejiang Road, where I defeated the bandits Opened a small shop I think Things will soon become clear. According to the captured personnel They are all subordinates of Li Kang from the Sihai Hongmen Society Li Kang was here just now What a pity that he ran away Don't worry, look at the situation here You will find it easy Li Kang is the rabbit's tail It won't last long This war of attrition is good. Completely destroyed the vitality of the Sihai Hongmen Society Li Kang is already at the end of his strength what else Oh the captives said Originally, the Sihai Hongmen Society and the Guangfu Society joined forces Dealing with Yan Shuangying But then there was an internal conflict The photovoltaic company's action commander Duma led his men to leave Only Li Kang and his men were left Oh, what about Yan Shuangying? How about Yan Shuangying These guys were beaten dizzy by Yan Shuangying More than half of the casualties But no one has seen him That's ridiculous. To be honest I really admire this Qing Gang boss now. He was able to capture these vicious gangsters Playing around in circles Not only that He is like a thick stick. Stirring up muddy water Stirring the fish hidden under the water to the surface once Upon a time We didn't know about the existence of the Sihai Hongmen Society But after a few days They were able to annihilate their main force in one fell swoop. This can only be attributed to Yan Shuangying's contribution. Lao Zhang, it seems that your decision was correct. Using Yan Shuangying and Guangfu Society Conflict with the Sihai Hongmen Society Adopt the policy of using the enemy to defeat the enemy and using special to defeat special It really has a very good effect. Lao Zhang Sorry, yes I am too subjective I apologize to you again Oh well Apologizing once is enough It's all for work. Oh, you have a quick mind. Act with swiftness and determination This is very good. I also want to learn from you. Hahaha If you keep talking, I will be embarrassed. Hahahaha, according to the prisoners This is the enemy's temporary headquarters. oh Let's go and have a look. stop Where is the template In the lighting control room Don't move team leader Ye Shuying is here ah Are you looking for me? Kill them all. He is the Hey, it's okay What do you do with an alarm clock? this this this I didn't bring it. How could it be in your pocket if it's not yours? This is me ah Iron Eagle We meet again Don't be afraid . If I were to kill you, you wouldn't be alive now. Go back and tell Chen Gongpeng I accepted both the goods and the money. What's the matter? Let him come to me.