Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today, we are going to minutes. With PowerPoint, you can create, edit, you can land your message. Let's start with how you can head to the following address, PowerPoint for free in your web browser. This If you would like to use the PowerPoint can also click on the card in the top right-hand get Microsoft 365, and you'll see the various you'll land on the home screen, and this helps you can kick off a blank new presentation. To the themes that you can start from. It's well worth match your needs. Right down here, you can view can also click on new. They both go to the same of all the different available templates and also we have a search field, so you can look for an and down below, you'll see all of your recent to work on your presentation. In the top left-hand This now drops us into a brand-new presentation, but before we start working on this presentation, floppy disk icon to save the presentation. This opens up a save dialogue, and I'll All Hands. Down below, you can choose a it places it in OneDrive. I would recommend Microsoft servers. There are a few benefits to your presentation as you're working on it. You'll your presentation, and it also makes it really I'll click on save. I'm now all ready to start my very first slide. Over on the left-hand side, I Right over here, I'll click to add my title, and I Cookie Company. I'll title it All Hands, and for Of course, I need more slides. To add another under the home tab, there's the option to add a the second slide into my presentation. If I hover a new slide is control M. I'll press control M, down here, and you'll see this line appear. I can a slide. You might have noticed that the slide compared to my very first slide. As I insert a and here you can select your layout up front, but I'll click on this icon, and this allows one with a section header, and that now changes outline for my deck. To navigate up my slides, I or I can also move down throughout my slides. we talk about the customer feedback that we've but it's worth mentioning. On the next slide, add a slide for that, and right here, this will on second thought, we should probably also discuss year. To add a new slide in between, I can place enter key, and that adds another new slide, and my outline here, we start with customer feedback, so perhaps it makes sense to move this at I could simply press and hold on it, and I can control key to select multiple slides, and also press the shift key to select multiple you can also click into the slide sorter, and exactly how you want your presentation to appear. Back in the main view, I've been thinking a and it is unfortunately negative, and I don't know know can't hurt them. I can right-click on this I could also simply press the delete key on my Now that I've finished my outline, I am ready to a little bit too bland. Up on the top tabs, and here I can select any one of these themes. on my presentation. I can click on this icon, and this one titled organic is very appropriate the Kevin Cookie Company. I'll select this option. category titled variance, and here I can apply slightly darker background, or maybe here a little If I want to jump back to another theme at any very quickly change it, or I can even go back to and we're right back to where I started from. Over slide size. You can also format the background, want it to be. And one of my favorites, in the designer. I'll click onto my first slide with This will look at the content of the slide and that the slide says All Hands, and here it's hands. That's pretty clever. I'll choose this air. My manager will really like that touch, and hands raise up in the air. That's nice. In the top I'd like to build out my very own theme. Now, I to apply a theme, but that'll take a lot of work. and right here, there's an option called slide side, I see all the different layouts, and at the I make here will carry through to every single adjust things like the colors. I could adjust the select this gray gradient background. I'll move I'll pull in the logo for the Kevin Cookie to resize the logo. I think that's a good size, I think this slide master looks good. Right and then you can close out of this view. And to all of the different slides in my presentation. slide and look at that. It automatically uses that I now want to start adding some content to for the new factory, and here I could enter in factory. Now, of course, this is just a bulleted make it more visual. I'll highlight all of this an icon for smart art. This will turn it into a different options for smart art. You can simply look like. I'll select, let's go with this option two new tabs up on top. Here I have smart art here I could adjust the look and feel. I could and I like this one right here. I think that goes side, I could also add additional bullets. For who else could it be but Cookie Monster? I'll type this object and move it over to the left-hand this slide, and I want to make sure that everyone let's click on the insert tab, and you can insert slide. You can insert a table. You could insert you could even insert audio and video under media. could place on your slide. I just want some could click anywhere on my slide. I'll click here, With this object selected, up on the home tab, I want to make sure that everyone takes this Sans. Here, I could also adjust the font size. I can even adjust the color. Now, up on top, adjust all sorts of different settings related to this opens up a pane on the right-hand side that I'm in text options. Here, I could click on color, just so it sits on top of the content, but right. I'll close this out, and here, I could on top of the slide. As I move the text object help me align this text on the slide. So here I think this slide could also use some pictures of and then let's click on pictures. You have a few this device, stock images, or also online images. you have all sorts of different categories of of a factory. I'll type that in. I like this They both look good. I'll click on insert. This I could reposition these and adjust these. I have picture formatting controls, and I could do also apply different artistic effects. Here, you Designer just do it for me. I'll select both of insert a new slide by pressing enter, and here, the home tab, let's go over and click on Designer, these. These are some fancy designs. I like this on that, and here, that's now changed both of my it back to slide number two and paste it in, and on my own. One problem is my confidential text I couldn't blame them. That's because this text is now bring that to the front. Up on top, I can also called the selection pane. I'll click on that, and Whatever item is on top is on the topmost layer. to the bottom, it now sits under everything, and thought, as I'm working on this presentation, text until I'm all done. Over here, I can click looks fine for now. I'll close out of this pane. I present it, I just want to talk about each item each one, one at a time. Let's click on animations and I can choose my animation. I want it to fade fades in at once. Over here, I can click on effect one. So here, it'll bring in one, then the next, Over on the left-hand side, I see this star icon You can pull off all sorts of fancy animations in animations, be sure to check out the video in the let's click on slide number three and delete it, let's click on insert, and right in the center, PowerPoint slide. You can bring in a directly within PowerPoint. You have all the in Excel. I'll insert a column chart and then and I get a mini version of Excel directly within this first column, and over here, I'll close let me change this to cookie revenue in millions. you could add different chart elements. You could and you could also change the chart style. Just you can customize an object to your heart's and I want to make sure to draw attention to and then click on shapes, and here, I'll press the shift key and then drag, and here, I With this object selected, let's go up to the I'll select no fill. Then, let's click on shape can take a color from anywhere else on my slide. click there, and that applies it to this circle. and let's add some more weight. Let's increase it people won't miss that we set a new record. great results, and I think the morph transition let's click on the transitions tab, and there you can apply between slides, but a very let's right click on this slide and then go down this slide. Over on the right-hand side, let's I'll press the control key and then move my mouse zoom control in the bottom right-hand corner. the shift key, and I'll expand it so it's larger and let me zoom out. Then on this slide, let me that larger circle to the smaller circle. So with previous slide. It's this large size, and then size, so let's preview what this looks like. Here, so that way no one will miss it. Up on the top sorts of different controls that I can use to take a little bit more time, so I could increase different fancy ways that you could use morph, be corner. While I'm presenting, I also want to make this milestone. Down at the very bottom, I have that, and that toggles on notes at the bottom. I space for my notes. And here, I'll type in some this milestone. You could press the control key on your notes to make it easier to read. Here, I it away. I'd really like for my teammates to come the organization. In the top right-hand corner, different options, but I'll click on the first I can type in email addresses to share with, and Once I'm all done, I can click on send, and this share this presentation with others, up on the I can insert a comment. So, this way, we can and I can even at mention different people in my what you think, and then send this out. Here, I'll to present this presentation now. Up on the top and right here, there's an option called rehearse allows you to run through your presentation, and even give you a very handy report at the end. Once left-hand side, you can start presenting from the key, you can press F5 to start presenting. I'll When I move my mouse, I see various controls and I can also see all of those same controls. pointer. I could go down to pointer options move that around the slide. To exit presentation two monitors, you'll see an experience that looks your audience can see here. You have all of your you want to open up the laser pointer. Over on the and here you'll see all of your different meeting I could also end the slideshow. Along you can also prerecord it. Up on the top tabs, recording from the beginning. When you click on you'll see all of your notes up above, and you through your notes. Down below, you'll see annotation tools. Once you're ready to record, and this will now record your presentation. Once and you can export your presentation as an at how you can get started using PowerPoint. One presentation complements your presentation and The PowerPoint itself should not be the watch more videos like this one, please consider