Narrator: In 1987, the Ferrari F40 became the first street-legal In 2005, Bugatti's Veyron hypercar broke the 250-mile-per-hour barrier. In late 2019, The Bugatti became the first production vehicle to ever reach 300 miles per hour. But why has it taken almost 15 years just to go 50 miles per hour faster? Andy Wallace: You think about And I suppose it should But if you've ever gone 150 if you then step that up just to 180, it's only 20%, but the difference is huge. Narrator: That's Andy Wallace, the driver behind Bugatti's Andy: Aerodynamically, it's all increasing exponentially If for example you had a car that was capable of 270 miles an hour, the efficiency you need to take that same car up to 280 is pretty massive. Narrator: The power needed to overcome a force like drag, or air The force required to push an increases at the cube of velocity. To translate, a car that to overcome aerodynamic would need 1,600 horsepower, or eight times as much, to But to build a 300-mile-per-hour car, it's not as simple as a monstrous engine. First, you need to start with the tires. While they're not the as the only part that touches the road, tires are one of the most important. And at 300 miles per hour, when a puncture or blowout they mean everything. At that kind of speed, the Bugatti's tires, had to withstand 7 tons of tearing force trying to rip them apart. For an idea of just how intense that is, the tires on a Porsche only experience about 3. Andy: One of the things you need to do is you need to stop the because these enormous tearing forces would actually make the The tires were not totally different, same carcass, same molding, But what they did do is reinforce the very last steel band before the rubber goes on. I think the tricky part to increase the weight of the tire. Narrator: To do this, Bugatti chose every engineer's favorite weight-saving material: carbon fiber. It can be 10 times stronger than steel but five times as light. After adding a thick layer the layer of rubber below the tread that's responsible for absorbing shock, Bugatti's engineers had to test it. To make sure the tire could they brought it to Michelin's in North Carolina. Using the same test bench they found that it could handle up to 318 miles per hour before warping. But even the strongest tire means nothing without the power to spin them. For an idea of just how look no further than one of in the race to 300 miles The company's upcoming Venom F5, estimated to reach 301 miles per hour, houses a 6.6-liter V-8 that makes an astounding 1,817 horsepower. To generate more horsepower, an engine has to burn more gasoline which requires more air. One of the most common ways to feed more air into the The Venom F5 not only uses but it also manages to RPM stands for revolutions per minute, and it measures how fast In general, the faster an engines spins, the faster it burns air and gas, and as a result, the more power it makes. A smaller engine with can spin faster with more efficiency, but has potential to wear than a bigger engine with a lower RPM. All of this has to be when choosing an engine for speed records. But in the end, the biggest obstacle to The drag, or air resistance, as it approaches this speed, can be compared to what you Christian Von Koenigsegg: in square. So going from 200 to 300 is basically, roughly calculated, double the energy that At around 200 miles per hour, you get more into airplane aerodynamics where you're actually compressing the air in and it takes different than at slower speeds. Narrator: That's why the goal of engineers when designing a hypercar's body is to eliminate as much drag as possible. No car does this better than automaker Koenigsegg's Based on the company's Jesko hypercar, the Absolut is estimated to reach as much as 330 miles per hour. Similar to Bugatti's it has a longer flattened tail. This makes sure air flows off Without it, you have a higher chance of separation in the airflow, which would only add to the drag. The car also improves The standard Jesko features to increase downforce for those But downforce on the rear wing of a 300-mile-per-hour car would only slow things down. Ditching the tail reduced maximum downforce from over To keep the Jesko Absolut from flying off the that massive rear wing was They may look tiny, but they redirect the vortex of air generated behind a speeding car that creates turbulence. And those sharply cut side vents do more than just cool the engine. Christian: They act like kind They actually become at over 200 miles per hour. And the reason for that, if they worked better at lower speed, they would be too They would be blocking too much. Narrator: But as impressive as these automakers' innovations have been, none of it would be possible without the way testing has advanced. An aerodynamic simulation that took a week to run 10 years ago can now be done in three or four hours, allowing new solutions And while Bugatti may have already been the first to reach 300 miles per hour, automakers are constantly