King Asgore is one of the most pivotal characters reviled within the fanbase. Though some appreciate tragedy led him to make terrible choices for for his crimes, harass his fans, and ultimately it's fine to dislike a character, but at the misunderstood and overshadowed by more popular from a lot of official merchandise and materials So in this video, I'd like to give the monster and even a little dash of Deltarune. Our first where his silhouetted figure is put in contrast monster war unfolds. He's depicted as large trident. That's all we learn, however, until we learn how the monsters journeyed far into the home, which their king called... well, Home. This and is the first lighthearted trait we learn about Toriel warns of how previous humans have died. name is spoken in red. It's very imposing. This work with until you reach Snowdin and learn And then Papyrus talks about how he's a big, let Frisk leave if they just ask. It's a stark further highlighted because Papyrus refers to him phone calls only add to the softer image of his kids love deadly spikes, he mentions that the king He also wants to be rid of the precarious bridge which shows that Asgore cares a lot about In Waterfall, we learn the tragedies of the through. Humanity declared war very suddenly out war was one-sided, with many monsters dying while is not spoken of in depth, the powerful souls which will be important later. Monster Kid class to teach a lesson on responsibility and This once again shows a desire to guide Gerson then tells a little more about Asgore, Fluffybuns.&quot; He describes Asgore as a friendly, kingdom and mingle with his people. In the came from a time when Toriel called him an a microphone, and then Asgore took it with stride This shows a good humored side of Asgore. Undyne mentioning how he will take seven human souls humanity. Notably, she refers to Asgore in she boasts about how no human has never made it she reveals more on the softer side of Asgore, tea and then calling him a total weenie. ...Sorta. Asgore, but he dodged every blow, but eventually knocked him down, he was incredibly proud of her However, perhaps the most striking thing she to fight Frisk. She begs Frisk to talk to Asgore we have a much clearer image of the true Asgore. revealed that Alphys has a huge crush on him also reveal that Asgore had a deep interest reason Alphys got appointed as head scientist. totally hyped for the destruction of humanity, is for Asgore to seize the final soul and the Before heading to New Home, we also one of the few monsters whose souls can persist of a human and monster SOUL is required to leave, barrier. This presents a moral dilemma that grows From the very beginning, New Home characterizes greyscale, which is greatly evocative of both of color in his life. When you first enter his the layout is identical to Toriel's house, minus urging visitors to look for the keys and pointing open to anyone who wishes to visit him. There are and once you pass the chain, you'll find In the genocide run, you learn that that is Unlike Toriel's home, the fireplace is dull. in some time. The tools are not filed down. trash bin filled with crumpled up butterscotch pie recapture the missing piece of his life. The which further calls back to Toriel and her own guests to take whatever they like. Already, But as you explore the home, monster Long ago, a human fell into the Underground Asriel. The little prince brought the human to and the Underground was full part of the family and formed a close, As you explore more of the house, you find a A happy family photo sits on the shelf. Striped the walls. The beds are perfectly made, even More golden flowers fill the hall. The a clear parallel to a similar room is Asgore's own bedroom, which sheds He has a trophy for the Nose Nuzzle championships different clothing, including a hand-knit sweater the human child. His bureau holds a Santa Claus of Santa, from Papyrus in his date to the gifts Asgore's kind heart and how deeply he cares On his wall hangs macaroni art of a flower an open journal that says &quot;Nice day today,&quot; This is starkly contrasted with the tragic The monsters reveal that one day, Chara see the golden flowers in their village. went to the surface, and was attacked. Despite and returned to the Underground with Upon his death, Asgore was outraged children in a single night, and after the humanity stole the kingdom's future away. And claiming that he would take the human souls, Toriel was disgusted and left to the Ruins in Yet Asgore's actions restored hope to the kingdom. Many monsters anticipate the And so, when Asgore finally appears onscreen... First, there's his voice. The moment you hear on the game over screen. There, he provided however, the context is strikingly different. he could simply play catch or make a cup of boxed himself in a cruel corner. circumstances and even gives Frisk every chance to. His small talk and hesitance show that possible. That he does not WANT to do this. and even then, he remains cordial before There's a lot you can read into with the Asgore fight. While mercy button means he will not SHOW fast that it's because he won't ACCEPT your If you talk to Asgore enough times, his attack and defense drop. If you eat the also drop as he's reminded of his lost love. If deeply sad, as if he knows what this means. in the game suggesting the previous humans And simply gave up. Plus the fact that Flowey's SOULs. Moreover, Asgore will not kill Frisk until way that he did against Undyne. He hangs his head trying to hold his emotions in, and it's very When Asgore's knocked to low HP, he opens reiterates how much his kingdom lost hope when declaration and his statement that he'd kill any become godlike, eradicate humanity, and let this restored the people's hopes, again, this Asgore reveals that, deep down, he didn't his people to have hope. He is fully aware of hatred he perpetuated, and offers up his life even if it means leaving his people without grief over the lives he claimed, acting when all signs point to him acting to appease possible in order to give the humans a chance to that it requires a boss monster soul to leave, so confront Asgore to go home, but lost so many times That doesn't make Asgore's crimes OKAY, of and it was entirely his choice. He could have his people and the excitement of pressure and so he continued down this dark path for the even mentions how at one point he and Asgore return to the surface, lest they be killed again. This further shows that Asgore's decision was If you choose to FIGHT Asgore, he dies with but offers to take care of Frisk and treat find interesting, however: he mentions his wife suddenly come back... but what if that's not it? words he once told Chara when they first met? by his children's deaths so long ago. short. Flowey lands a killing blow if you don't However, if you replay the Asgore fight later and Flowey will not attack. And so when Asgore makes comparing Frisk to Chara and how they had bringing up the Delta Rune prophecy and He urges Frisk to take his SOUL, way to free the monsters. He does not give You can say this is unfair, as he's placing so making them watch him end his own life. choice on his part, yet the fact that he is so keep another human prisoner shows just how deeply perhaps, but this is why so much of the When he's boiled down to &quot;kid killer,&quot; you lose who is kind, caring, compassionate, and loves because the only other options were to let concerns of overpopulation and hopelessness cross the barrier, and immediately get six and Asriel tried, and the humans assumed the whereas the long game would at least allow what You can certainly argue that letting the human be better, but that would require the humans We know so little about the other humans to know the tragedy in Undertale is that there was no monsters made it so the barrier could only that a human who falls would have to kill a boss and that isn't okay, but it is still possible to when you consider the war and how many monsters And the true tragedy in the neutral run is how he dies. The SOULs are lost, and Even in the most ideal endings, the human SOULs were close to him and the future is uncertain. that this is not the perfect finale. Asgore's absent for the first stretch although True Lab does shed some light on his tasked her to research the SOUL, he was the and if the imperfect pacifist ending is any her work very much. He did send her a cute teacup but otherwise he was pretty hands off during after the True Lab everything seems familiar at a callback to the first scene with Flowey. Asgore isn't mutual. She tells him not to call her Asgore asks if they can at least be friends, Toriel brings up an alternative I briefly touched crossed the barrier to get six more, and freed this as being something Toriel wanted when a point. Namely, if Asgore really wanted to let but simply couldn't face his people and Still, what bothers me about this scene is how comes in, rather than defend Asgore, the scene ex with an Avatar the Last Airbender reference. but it's just kind of weird how tonally tragic and dignified to basically the buttmonkey. he bursts into tears, which further hammers Personally, I'm not super invested in the his emotions is certainly refreshing to see It still feels odd to see him shift from this Flowey attacks, and everyone's ensnared in Asgore shows his tendency to place for good-natured reasons like instilling hope. character, too. &quot;Forgive me for this.&quot; &quot;This is my him forward even though he did not wish to take hammers in the tragic nature of his character. Frisk's future is up to them, while Asgore says unfair on Asgore's part. While I do think he has others without their consent, I do think he meant complicated, yo. After the battle, when Frisk they process what happened and fret over Frisk. He tea, though Toriel tells him to give them space. the entire game to apologize to Frisk. While I've that apology, what they neglect to mention is they all tried to kill Frisk... which is pretty she ever apologized for what she said and did. is in the neutral ending, and not because of Conversely, only Asgore, Alphys, and Asriel Napstablook and Muffet if Instead of picking on Asgore, I think it's for chasing Frisk down, threatening and saying they'd be better off dead, but I character regardless, and it shows a doofy side Plus, remember, this is in a Pacifist Run. run was completely erased from time, and that fight simply didn't happen thanks less to apologize for, at least to Frisk. is comical in nature. He wants to be pals and would love to go on walks with them. He seems terms at long last and even plans to disband He also shows curiosity towards anime and see it for himself. It's a charming moment that It's also worth noting that when Alphys told Asgore once again shows his tendency to place be ambassador. On one hand, they're probably no 12 - 13 due to the series' Earthbound influence), and minds of so many monsters and brought he won't force it on Frisk, however, and During the credits, we see Asgore tending to the that while they may not be together, they have Even outside of the game, there are still In the first anniversary Q&amp;A blog, he stated that biscuit. He tries to sound hip, mentioning a regrets sharing the internet with him after that, trying to get with the times. In the winter alarm and how he always calmly laughs and helps everyone but does enjoy playing the role of monster Santa. stuck in the process and the kids drew on his bum. who would join him with a glowing red nose Rudy's Santa and Rudy was Asgore's Rudolph. The him as bi, which I think is pretty neat. second home, and his family as a second family had a long history, too, as Asgore had met Rudy Rudy began looking older than Asgore. One which might have lacked the proper medical over old age simply because Asgore mentions the surface, and Sans in the Xbox version And speaking of the casino, we learn from Sans burst into laughter before he could land any in fact, that Sans just stood awkwardly on the him. But he still considers it his best show. and watched him get married, become of being a boss monster, as Gerson reveals in Asgore only age if they have living biological if they have biological parents. monsters over the centuries, though Rudy's the surface as previously mentioned. is very sweet, as the other monsters come in and Toriel both reflect on how Chara used to and Asgore seems to have taken after them in holds Chara near and dear to his heart. Undertale version of Asgore, so with From the beginning of Deltarune, it's clear that of him at home, and Toriel makes no mention and the garbage can is filled with a strangely world adventure that we learn more about him. frequently gives Alphys bouquets of flowers and to wonder if Asgore likes her, though she deflects him. Asgore runs the town's local flower shop, Kris have fallen out of touch. He's shocked and hug, only to realize he's not sure if they place. In the shop, you can learn a lot about this keeps the flowers from his wedding preserved fridge. A fridge that has no food besides In Chapter 2, we learn that he goes But he sleeps on an air mattress and is due for Asgore has a problem giving away product for free. give to Toriel and says to keep it a secret. This his, as the garbage in the Dreemurr house has a to Rudy before, prompting Rudy to tease Asgore, Beast references. Asgore's TV has superhero comics Toriel later mentions that for one of of eggs with green spots as a reference game characters. Unfortunately, the next day, and Asriel burst out crying, hating These are the main things we learn in chapter 1. police chief before he was forcibly removed for Undyne to fill, while the grocery store scene he interacts with Toriel, offering her flowers to get her to remember how she used to feel. He clear that he's still struggling with the divorce. Toriel's boundaries and just expects things For now, it's hard to say where this will go. to be more respectful of those boundaries. It's for the days when their family was happy. They brings it up in Chapter 1, suggesting that he But at the same time, it was a bit awkward for me though I do feel bad for the dude. The problem is two good friends and just... shifted the focus about tried to get Sans to give him romantic advice. I divorce is recent enough that he hasn't accepted We'll have to see where his story hope that he learns to chill out on this front. of Mew Mew Kissy Cutie 2 according to Alphys, Dummy/Mad Mew Mew, as she talks about Asgore And yes, that is the Mad Dummy/Mad Mew Mew ghost, Unfortunately, as I've already alluded to, a lot of discourse. I don't wanna name specific because that would be a bit disrespectful to the regardless, many people hold him so accountable characters just to joke about dead kids, or when will make divorce jokes without considering I have seen people get bullied and harassed on and while he has many fans and staunch see a game that encourages mercy and compassion even if it's not exclusive to Asgore. And double standards at play. People will give Asgore killed just about every monster in many ways just reloads and resets, and he did break the barrier, possible without those six souls. That doesn't and Asgore even feels that they aren't, but it's free pass while they just hammer in on Asgore. never loved Chara, even though he speaks so fondly argued that Asgore &quot;groomed&quot; or &quot;brainwashed&quot; that she doesn't really wanna fight... when Gerson as a little kid. Asgore is not solely to blame war. There are the ancient plaques. By placing of the individual characters and ignores that hurt, and loss that finally breaks in the pacifist sure, but at the end of the day, the other It's okay if you don't like Asgore. It's okay will always be an element of subjectivity when it alternative mindset isn't better. The way some Toriel is or how she's just as bad... guys, are tragic and complex and made bad choices. surrounding his character is why he's seen so boss Asriel both have their own merch, so it can't the stickers, tarot cards, and on some shirts, merch and has been left out of things like the It would be wonderful if Asgore fans got a something simple and fun. There's a hashtag on and maybe if enough people signal boost it we can see a lil' more love for the big guy. I'd like to talk about some Asgore is a character who had an interesting was established years before the game released, took some time to develop. Originally, Asgore was taking inspiration from games like Brandish. facial hair or not. He also was originally such as spinning his trident and an attack different turn with Asgore's character, inspiring His hair became blonde for better contrast, and This video ended up longer than I initially going to be a divisive character, but I do hope appreciation for the complexity of his story and like him as a character. The great thing about are so rich and diverse. There's a character expect everyone to share a universal opinion. more to him. I'd love to see him develop the divorce and to learn to respect Toriel's I'd also love to see more merchandise options for I'd love to see the hostility in the fandom Too often people act like if you like one, you the actions of Toriel to make Asgore look good they are both flawed in their own unique ways. in the comments, and if you have an Undertale or in the future, feel free to mention that, too. I will take a bit more time in the oven. I'd characterization based on what we know now, of Undertale and Deltarune planned, too, like a version of Sonic, so stay tuned in the future. out my Undertale webcomic, visit the link in Fate has been going strong since 2016, and we're I hope to upload more music to this channel soon, If you like what I do and wanna stay up to date on my Patreon! Every bit of support matters to supplement my patreon income, and right now I wanna keep this going as long as I can, so If you made it this far, thanks so much