In 1994, Andrew Wiles solved a mystery that The 17th-century French mathematician Pierre de x to the n plus y to the n is equal to z to For example, 3 to the power of which is not the cube of any whole number. Fermat claims to have proved his theorem, an ancient Greek text on number theory: &quot;I have discovered a truly marvelous proof of Unfortunately, he never wrote down his proof For over 300 years, mathematicians which is similar to the Pythagorean theorem Andrew Wiles was a young boy when he stumbled upon Fermat's Last Theorem at a library As he recalled in an interview later featured in the book Fermat's Enigma by Simon "Here was a problem that I, a I knew from that moment that I would His determination was extraordinary considering the brightest minds in math had The 18th-century Swiss mathematician where there are no solutions for n = 3. But Euler even asked a friend to search Fermat's house just in case he had scribbled down The wealthy German industrialist Paul Wolfskehl love him back that he planned to end his life, He never solved it himself but offered a who could solve it, motivating the When Andrew Wiles was a grad student at his supervisor, John Coates, curves, which proved crucial for In the 1950s, Japanese mathematicians, Yutaka every elliptic curve, there is The Taniyama-Shimura conjecture connected Later, Ken Ribet, a professor at UC Berkeley, How? He showed that if Fermat's certain elliptical curves would have to exist. However, the Taniyama-Shimura conjecture Therefore, if the Taniyama-Shimura conjecture were Proving the conjecture would The problem was, Taniyama and Shimura Tragically, Taniyama committed suicide "I am in the frame of mind that His fiancee took her own life shortly after, writing, "We promised each other we would never be separated. Now that he is In 1986, Andrew Wiles was sipping iced mentioned Ken Ribet had proved the link between "I was electrified. I knew that moment that meant that to prove Fermat's Last Theorem all conjecture. It meant that my childhood dream knew that I could never let that go." U.S. where he was a mathematics When he wasn't lecturing, he was in his attic equation could be correlated with a modular form. He kept his work a secret, not wanting have been another reason for his secrecy. a rival mathematician might beat him He cleverly threw his colleagues off his on elliptic equations every six months, making devoting his time to the age-old enigma. a specific class of elliptic curves, like The challenge was to ensure that if one Andrew had to show that if one element the corresponding element in the modular form Yet he struggled to topple Five years after working in secret, he state in hopes of finding new ideas. conference in Boston where his Ph.d. supervisor Matthias Flach was working on a powerful building on the work of Russian Andrew realized this Kolyvagin-Flach method ultimately proving every elliptic equation But this involved incredibly hard After seven years of working all by himself, In 1993, he confided in his colleague They arranged a secret weekly meeting disguised as and verified Andrew's calculations...and assessed There was still one missing piece of the puzzle. Andrew used a key insight gleaned from a paper by American mathematician Barry Mazur It was time to tell the world that he had He chose to do so at a conference June 1993 in his hometown of Cambridge. rumors spread of his breakthrough on Andrew recalled: dignified silence while I read out the proof Fermat's Last Theorem. I said, 'I think I'll stop Mathematicians usually don't make The excitement was palpable yet He submitted his draft to the journal, Barry Mazur,selected six referees "...this was subject matter that perhaps only half as John Lynch, editor of the award-winning During this rigorous scrutiny, a flaw emerged. Nick Katz, discovered a gap in the part of the Nick and Andrew had missed this earlier during Was Andrew's proof about to Despite the setback, he remained optimistic. just needed a little tweaking. but it was slow going. she wanted everything corrected by her But as time went on with no manuscript there were issues with his proof. the speculation publicly in During the review process a number of problems but one in particular I have not yet settled. able to finish this in the near future using Winter passed and he was still He decided to bounce ideas off of someone he now a Cambridge lecturer and one of They worked through the summer Andrew was at wit's end and thought of giving up. Richard returned to Cambridge in September. The morning of Monday, September examining the Kolyvagin-Flach method, trying Suddenly, he had an incredible revelation entirely successful, it provided enough insight theory - a theory of analyzing elliptic equations Combining the two methods, which were inadequate It was the most important Nothing I ever do again will... I'm sorry. After eight years of dedicating himself to one task, Andrew's 129-page proof was published in math. in the Annals of Mathematics "Having solved this problem there's certainly a tremendous sense of freedom. That particular If you've been inspired by Andrew's improve your math skills and - who knows Brilliant is the perfect place to start. Brilliant is a website and app In their Measurement course, you'll and areas by recognizing relationships Geometry is fundamental to understanding Einstein's theory of relativity. enhance your ability to visualize and solve Brilliant has something for everyone. familiar with Python and start building programs You can try Brilliant for FREE for 30 days description: brilliant.org/newsthink By signing up with my link or code, premium subscription giving you Thanks for watching. For Newsthink, I'm Cindy Pom.