Hey smart people, Joe here. But why is this Sand dunes are basically big piles of sand. with wind. But that's kind of confusing, wouldn't you expect something way different When air blows across sand maybe you'd expect special at all. But that isn't what happens. This is. At the smallest scale, delicately traced ripples And at the largest scale, oceans of wave-like how do they form? examples of order, and even beauty, arising Beautiful sand dune landforms like this form they all happen from the same few ingredients: pieces of this stuff. And all of that creates the grand scale. call landforms... you have to take stuff from one place, move Or technically speaking: erosion, transport, The key to sand dunes is what's doing the Sand is a paradox. It's solid. I mean, I'm liquid. And sometimes, even behave a little Sand is weird stuff! And that weirdness is shapes. But, like... what IS it? Sand is just a special Sand is so much more than that! and water that have carved their way across and deserts long gone. It's... it's, you know... that stuff. based on what it's made of. It's defined based on the size of the particles. That's technically sand. The sand many of us are used to is tiny pieces bigger rocks. Or gypsum, like the famous White Sands of Some sand is really ground up coral or seashells. Even the skeletons of plankton! Small snow crystals can even technically be But maybe the strangest kind of sand on Earth the D-Day invasions of WWII took place. They're known as "war sand". So. What is sand? It's just really small still really small. That pretty much covers And that Goldilocks size (not too big, not else really does. Big stuff, like rocks... wind doesn't do Slightly smaller stuff like gravel, if enough The very smallest stuff, like dust, gets swept Sometimes traveling thousands of miles before Sand is just small enough to be lifted and it doesn't stay up for long. This bouncing is what happens as sand is blown though it's difficult to see with the naked Sit down near a sandy surface on a windy day, If you've ever looked at any sand-covered probably noticed these evenly spaced, repeating apart. And these are another paradox. How does this create... order? dunes, it isn't the dunes themselves, it's the sand. you'd think if the wind were blowing across smooth surface, it'd just even everything These beautiful ripples, they're almost I mean, it looks like someone came out here amazing about these ripples, is they form of just wind and sand. So how do these ridges form? Well once a grain of sand is lifted into the surface again, it almost splashes, driving But the distance of those hops isn't random. are and how fast the wind is moving. And this So this feedback loop of bouncing sand begins little random spot where a few more grains a little hump, which causes even more sand that hump where less sand is landing. That pattern repeats itself all the way down the grains of sand and how far they bounce Bouncing sand, pulled along by the wind... self The size and distance between these ripples different wind, different sized sand = different And if we speed up time, we can even watch Much of what is known about how sand and wind Ralph Bagnold. An explorer and brigadier in Africa between WWI and WWII. In 1929 he completed an expedition in search the sand seas of the Libyan desert in a caravan His partner on that expedition was a Hungarian later made famous in the film The English Bagnold never found that mythical oasis, but processes, that's the technical term for sediment, named for the Greek god of the wind. And his 1941 book is still used today. It's but what do you expect for a book about sand? Thank you, thank you. It's pretty awesome that in a system that like the physical version of TV static--even Creating order on small scales... and large Sand dunes can range from a few meters high meters tall. Like these at Great Sand Dunes to climb them. Like ripples, dunes are also formed by the But sand dunes happen for a completely different other sand, this is aerodynamics. When wind flows over an obstacle, like a large This is why winds are often much stronger Dunes form when wind accelerates over an obstacle, the spot on the hill where the wind is pulling occurs, it isn't here at the top, which happens here on the windy side of the dune. the wind, and get dumped at the crest of the Because the sand gets eroded the most here, exist instead of getting blown away by the So as the wind comes up the front side of at the crest. Then something weird happens. of that stack gets to be 33 or 34 degrees, at home. Look at this finely powdered sugar. It's particles can pack in with each other and angles without avalanching. Nearly vertical But larger granular materials, like this table sand, they avalanche at a much shalloEwer And you can see that right behind me. This have occurred, shaping this side of the dune. Anybody have a protractor? Anybody? Should Some really interesting things happen right will try to follow the curve of the dune. The same way that liquid will flow down the But if the flow is faster, and the surface to that avalanche angle, the air detaches from a spout pours into our cup and doesn't The wind is clearly blowing sand off the top upstream keeps depositing more sand at the shrink. As sand piles and avalanches, the whole dune over months or years. Dunes can grow to ridiculously large scales. above where I started. Many dunes are even visible from space! And clearest view that there's obviously another turbulence of sand blowing in the wind. And that order comes in many different shapes. that created it. This is a transverse dune. star dune. Just a few of the shapes that dunes Why Care? probably saying, "hey Joe, why should I And to that I say "Knowing stuff is awesome." And also because moving sand impacts a lot As temperatures rise on Earth and our population deforestation are degrading lands into dry, and every year, an area equal to half the Earth. Climate change will only speed that 30% of Earth's surface could end up drying And as erosion increases, dunes may threaten Towns like the tiny spaceport of Mos Espa, giant moving sand dune. Ok, that's actually the set they built for real places too! a coastal town in Oregon that inspired one written. A young newspaper reporter was sent to investigate to keep migrating dunes from swallowing roads, The story he was sent to write was never written, may have heard of: Dune. when you're gonna run into one of those In that story, the complex interplay of life with collapse at the hands of humans. It's a lesson about appreciating the delicate about our own planet. But also a hint that You see, our planet isn't the only planet We find sand dunes on Mars, with unique ripples constant winds of the red planet. Dunes on Even dunes of frozen methane on Pluto. in our solar system or others has some fine-grained So wherever there's an atmosphere that can and dunes will also form there. These patterns ours and others. So why care about big piles of sand? Well, because they are beautiful. Because is the way it is, not just how it is. And self-organization and patterns formed by physics as wind and sand can inspire us to think about I think I finally understand what the poet To see the world in a grain of sand, hold infinity in the palm of your hand, in an hour. Stay curious.