Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. what happens to your body? or cremated or donated to science, but are those your only options? what if I wanted to be taxidermied, like my friend here? What if I requested to have my body position, like a permanent high five, so people could high five my actual skin forever? Well, it turns out to be quite complicated. So let's begin with an easier and more flexible solution. Cremation and ashes. humans have walked on the Moon. 300 humans have been buried in outer space. With the right connections and budget ashes launched into space. occurred in 1997, when a rocket deposited the ashes of 24 people into orbit around Earth. In 1999, human remains were first buried on the Moon. instruments and some of the cremated co-discoverer of the comet Shoemaker-Levy 9. But the first human to have their remains leave our solar system will be Clyde Tombaugh, the guy who discovered Pluto. In 2006, some of his ashes were launched which will arrive near Pluto in 2015, take some recordings and pictures and beyond our solar system. outer spacey to have fun with you ashes. there are companies that will take carbon extreme heat and pressure long enough that you wind up with a diamond made out of you. It can be cut and the ashes of &quot;Meowy,&quot; her cat. The point here is that you can be quite creative with cremated remains. look like you did when you were alive, so let's revisit taxidermy. The shapes and combinations are quite creative. pig turned into an actual piggy bank. A bird light fixture. that's also a bagpipe. Doves turned into shoes. cat into a remote-controlled quadcopter. Taxidermy doesn't preserve every part of your body. dermy - the arrangement of skin, which is okay. all of your internal organs, but your skin is your largest organ. of your total body weight plus it's an see and recognize you by. When animals are taxidermied, on a mannequin. but is made of wood or wall and wire or foam. That's fine for museums. mannequin can lead to an animal that looks generic. All of the tiny, subtle, but very important cartilage, fat, muscles are more difficult to recreate after it's dead and all you have is its skin. That's why many taxidermists hesitate to taxidermy a person's beloved pet. Because in order to satisfy the client, required. Even more so if you were trying to recreate a person. So, taxidermy may not be the best way to or your daddy or your mummy... What about them? and Jeremy Bentham. When he died, the mummified as best as technology would allow and displayed at the University College is, but the mummification didn't turn a skeleton dressed up in clothes and stuffed. The head wound up looking a bit too and so a wax head was made. of Jeremy Bentham online. the dried out mummified middle finger of Galileo? We still have it and it's on display in Florence. It's a great thing to visit if you want to flip you off. realistically, as we appear while living. So, let's take a look at embalming. all corpses are embalmed before they're is a great technique for preserving a body, slowing down decomposition, be displayed a little bit longer. a body is embalmed really really well longer than you might think. that even though his coffin has been moved 17 times since he was buried and the casket opened five times, on each of those occasions, people said &quot;yeah, still looks like Lincoln.&quot; On an even more extreme scale are the and Lenin, which continue to be on display to this day. The bodies require special The exact techniques and embalming fluids are kept secret, 80 years. before being buried in more positions than just lying down in a coffin. or riding a motorcycle. Wow. doesn't last for ever, be prepared to spend a lot of money and time. One method that could be used on humans is similar to instant coffee. The process involves freezing the animal, so that all of its water solidifies. pressure so low that the solid water instantly turns into vapor and escapes away, leaving a much much lighter freeze-dried pet. Unfortunately, when it comes to preserving a human body, as realistically as possible after death, these methods - freeze-drying, mummification, taxidermy, long-term embalming are either unsatisfactory or impractical. With the exception possibly of a slightly newer method - plastination. like Body Worlds. soaked in a volatile solvent and then placed in a polymer solution. the volatile solvent leaves the specimen and the empty space is filled with the polymer solution. The specimen is flexible and can be put into a pose and then the polymer hardened by using special gases. Human bodies that have been plastinated even at room temperature. It's free. to the Institute for Plastination. But here's the thing: you won't necessarily have control over what's done with your body, because at the end of the day corpses are legally not property. a corpse. is not legally a piece of property, do whatever they want with it. limited and even if you you specifically have requested, say, that your body be taxidermied and want it to happen, it's very unlikely that a mortuary would and, historically, the law sides with the mortuary. in 1994, David Eugene Russell his body be skinned, and that leather used to bind a book of his writings. He wanted this to happen, as did his surviving widow. But the mortuary refused to do it and even if you have a really cool idea for embalmed forever and displayed in a funny, weird or bizarre way, you're not going to get permission to do so. Plastination winds up being one of lot of control over what happens to you once plastinated. But hold on a second. Anthony-Noel Kelly was arrested for Royal College of Surgeons. because a corpse is not a piece of property. of the mistreatment of a corpse. that because these anatomical specimens licensed and skilled workers at the college, they had become property. If you found a way to get your body taxidermied, for the benefit of medical science, in doing so you may actually become a piece of ownable property. bean taxidermied may be the best way to allow your survivors, your loved ones, to legally and literally have you forever. And as always, thanks for watching.