Tono Boku Channel. Our parents are coming now. I wonder if my words got through to Otono, and he's worried about what's on the other side of the door. Our parents are coming now. Mom and dad are coming. He looks like &quot;Seriously?&quot; Actually, tomorrow is my mother's birthday, and my father and mother are coming on a trip to Tokyo to celebrate. Since my main purpose is sightseeing in Tokyo, I only came here to take a look at Otono. This is the first time my father has come to visit us at home, so I'm really looking forward to seeing Otono's reaction. It seems like they are still waiting for their parents to come. Before meeting his parents, I will give Otono a little grooming. Father and mother have arrived. Otono is saying something. Otono is waiting in front of the door. (Mother) Otono, it's been a while. (Father) Otono was so happy that he urinated. (Me) I forgot to put on a diaper. (Father) Do you remember? Otono was overcome with emotion and urinated in large quantities. As expected, Otono only greets his father, whom he rarely sees. (Mother) Ah! There's a silver shield! . Beside the two playing, my mother is impressed by the silver shield. (Me) I'm taking pictures of the silver shield. (Mother) Congratulations . (Me) Thank you. Otono is still overjoyed that his father has come. Otono is going crazy. Otono is eager to have his father play with him right away. he's very happy. (Me) I only see Otono and my father when he goes home. He seems to be quite happy because he rarely sees his father. (Mother) There are enemies on both sides! Good, I'm happy. (Me) Otono, I have to report that we have surpassed 100,000 people. (Mother) Congratulations Otono! You did your best, Otono. (Father) Congratulations. Otono is also very loved by his father and mother. Otono is happy when there are many people playing with him. (Mother) Is he happy? (Me) I don't know. (I) I don't understand what emotion Otono is feeling when he groans. (Mother) But he's wagging his tail. This is a peaceful everyday life. She's slouching her body like a cat. The way he treats me is more like a cat than a dog. (Mother) Tells me to pet her. I have to report that we have surpassed 100,000 people. As expected, Otono is extremely spoiled by his father. (Mother) If daddy was around, he wouldn't come to mommy's house at all. (Father) Otono, do you remember me? In my previous life, I was definitely a cat. (Father) How are your hands? I'm glad I got to meet you both, Otono. (Mother) Then come to my place next time, Otono. Otono always goes to his father's place. He's busy lol. (Everyone) Well done! . (Everyone) Good! good! . It's a good environment where many people praise you for your success in the toilet. My mother was sad because Otono never came. He's changing the people he spoils. I'll give you a silver shield. Actually, in addition to the silver shield I received for free, I had also purchased another silver shield to display at my parents' house. My mother's birthday coincided with my trip to Tokyo, so I was able to give this to them at the perfect time. (Father) Congratulations. (Father, Mother) That's amazing, that's amazing. It says 100,000 people. This letter is written in Japanese. For some reason, the additional purchases came with Japanese support. I never thought the day would come when I would see the actual Silver Shield. They were both overjoyed to see the silver shield for the first time in their lives. Otono has finally calmed down. When he feels like it, Otono even goes to his mother's pampering. However, the way Otono treats his father is abnormal. Otono is calm and looks like he's about to fall asleep. Get this. My father takes the opportunity to give Otono a snack. It can't be broken. I think today is a really good day off for Otono. (Father) You don't bite your fingers. great. It's almost time for both of us to go. It seems that Otono is still with the two of them, but I want them to enjoy sightseeing in Tokyo. Two people are going home. Seeing off two people. Otono still wants to play with his father. (Mother) Otono goes to see her dad all the time. This time, Otono was only spoiled by his father and seemed to miss his mother. (Father) Bye-bye! see you. (Mother) See you soon! (Me) Then enjoy sightseeing in Tokyo! (Mother) Thank you! . Otono seems sad when he realizes that the two are leaving. Let's have the two of you come visit us again. Thank you for watching. Please subscribe to the channel.