iPhone OS 1 iOS was first revealed in 2007 and has arguably in history. Before it existed, mobile phone software was But after its debut, the concept of a smartphone With a touch-based operating system taking Eventually, the influence of iOS rippled across From tablets, to watches, to cars, and even Since 2007, iOS has grown in ways many never So let's take a look at how it ended up Starting, with its development in 2005. Only employees from within Apple were allowed Meaning there were no contractors, partnerships, Steve Jobs wanted the project to be kept so the team didn't know what they were working There were two groups assembled to create One worked on converting the iPod into a phone, to fit it onto a touch-based phone. There were several variations of these two With people on the iPod team including a click team tried optimizing the iPod interface to Meanwhile on the Mac OS X team, Jon Rubinstein version of the OS, while Scott Forstall worked Mac OS X to run on an ARM chipset. There were almost twenty different concepts, Since some team members didn't think customers The click wheel concept appeared to be a waste everyone's ideas before making a final decision. And while you may expect this type of work between teams, Tony Fadell, who then led iPhone of ideas, not teams, and we were all working Once all was said and done, Jobs chose the developed by Scott Forstall. It featured a completely touch-based interface. With a software keyboard and multitouch gestures It was revealed to the public in 2007, and An engineer at Google said, "As a consumer I wanted one immediately. But as a Google engineer, I thought 'We're The iPhone's operating system redefined It featured a simple grid of colorful icons easy to use. Just tap the app you want to open, and press That may seem like an obvious concept in retrospect, notoriously cumbersome to use. But despite its huge impact, it didn't have Apple simply said that the iPhone ran a version Which was the operating system used by Mac This made sense from a marketing perspective, made the device appear more powerful. But from a practical perspective, no one knew And as companies like Google released the necessary for Apple to differentiate their iPhone OS 2 So in 2008, the iPhone received an updated This time, with an official name: iPhone OS This meant the original OS was retroactively The 2008 update introduced features that were Primarily, the App Store. It's hard to imagine the iPhone existing so ubiquitous. But it was actually Steve Jobs who prevented place. He believed creating and operating a huge and difficult. Instead, he favored web apps. Since they didn't require a software development Developers could simply utilize Web 2.0 and to native iPhone apps. But developers weren't happy with this approach, could do. With an SDK, support for features like inertial were accessible to developers. Allowing them to create more more fluid and And that's exactly what happened with the Jobs got on stage and admitted that web apps apps. And that an SDK was being prepared so developers When the App Store finally opened in July imagined. In fact, Apple didn't even expect the App The original goal of the store was to simply But Apple's plans changed when the store There were five-hundred apps available at million times in just three days. At that point, Apple recognized the store's which popularized the phrase "There's an But there was more to iPhone OS 2 than the It also introduced the screenshot feature. Allowing users to take high quality screen And photo geotagging, which saved the GPS So you could not only see when a photo was And for the first time, users could use a of manually scrolling through the list. Mail also received a pretty big update. Previously, there was no way to view email But in iPhone OS 2, Apple began support for Mail. Which was a step in the right direction that They also added a better way to manage your Which allowed users to quickly select multiple And image attachments could be saved to a on the image and tapping save. Parental controls were added for the first to set certain restrictions on apps and purchases. But the feature that received the most applause It was updated with a scientific mode that device. A feature that still exists today. And the reason why iPhone 3G could be so successful in iPhone OS 2. Without it, users in Japan, China, and Korea the device. The new update was free for iPhone, but cost This was because of an accounting requirement touch. Since one could be payed in installments over up front, paid in full. It's a legal restriction that doesn't and resulted in some confusion among iPod iPhone OS 3 The following year, in 2009, the iPhone was Making iPhone OS the most popular smartphone And when it came to the free SDK Apple introduced apps, it had been downloaded over 800,000 With 62% percent of those developing software As a result, the App Store grew from just in 2009. With iPhone OS users downloading those apps It was clear Apple was on to something big. And iPhone OS 3 built on these successes to But it wasn't all good. The first new feature Apple announced was And on the surface, the feature seemed like In-App Purchases allowed developers to charge additional app content. For example, a magazine could offer their app. Or a game developer could offer new weapons And eBook stores could offer multiple books a different app for each book. The use of In-App Purchases made sense for But Apple didn't implement any regulations So naturally, it was exploited by developers Games began adopting a free-to-play model. Where users could download the app for free, Whether to purchase in-game currency, items, Some games even limited the amount of time unlock additional playtime. Other apps, especially in the productivity like photo editing, but then lock the capability app. Requiring a one-time fee or even a subscription This was when the App Store went from being It's something the App Store still struggles And it's why many longtime iPhone users But there was a brighter side to iPhone OS It introduced push notifications to third-party Previously, only Apple's own apps could badges. In order to scale the feature to developers, system to accommodate the onslaught of additional user's battery life. And if that sounds like a crucial feature then you may be surprised that cut, copy, 3. Over two years after the original iPhone was The audience applauded when Scott Forstall requested and already existed on Android. Landscape mode was also expanded in iPhone Previously, only Safari supported landscape But users enjoyed the widescreen aspect ratio typing in landscape, so Apple carried the Notes, and Messages. Speaking of Messages, it received a large for MMS. Transforming the app from a simple SMS text Since it finally allowed users to send photos, from within a message. Also, Apple created a completely new app for Which allowed users to record, trim, and share or even an external mic through the 30-pin And iPhone OS 3 expanded the search function to all key iPhone apps. Including Mail, Calendar, iPod, and Notes. But Apple went even further. In addition to searching within apps, they Spotlight. Which was activated by swiping left from the iOS 4 Now in 2010 Apple really began to modernize Not only because of its new features, but Everyone expected this year's upgrade to But instead, Apple named it iOS 4. And it included a long-awaited feature called Android had multi-taking on their platform high a cost. Like excessive battery drain and reduced processing They claimed Multi-taking in iOS 4 was built And that's why it took longer to implement. Either way, the feature solved a problem many For example, if they tapped a website link With no way to quickly jump back to the Mail Instead, they'd have to press the home button, This often made using iPhone feel slow and Which was why multi-taking was such a crucial In iOS 4, users could simply double click used apps. From there, they could quickly tap the previous one. Custom home screen wallpaper was also added Finally users could replace the plain black and appealing. And because users were downloading apps in way to organize them. That's why folders was created. Instead of swiping between nine homepages app on top of another, and a folder would Automatically using a name based on the category Although users could customize the folder's Since each folder held up to twelve apps, apps. A huge increase over the previous 180 app Another big update to iOS 4 was a unified Previously, each email account managed by With users having to switch between each one But in iOS 4, Apple added a unified inbox into one. Giving users a much easier and faster way Users could also open attachments with apps For example, if a users received an OmniGraffle attachment and open it in the OmniGraffle iOS 4 also received a couple completely new The first was iBooks. Which originally debuted on iPad but was carried So users could start a book at home on their iPhone. The second, was Game Center. Which added a social element to iOS gaming. Users could see their friend's progress invite them to play. Game Center could even match two people of other. Apple also introduced a new mobile advertising They spent $275 million to acquire a company possible. iAds aimed to combine the emotion of television Resulting in a seamless and effective ad experience But the service never caught on. Mainly because spending money to advertise appealing to companies. Who'd rather put their ads on google search or operating system. iOS 5 The following year in 2011, iPhone users had iOS 5. You see, apps were already wildly popular for third party apps in iOS 3, users were being pushed from all their apps. So in iOS 5, Apple introduced Notification Which was a single place that users could And it could be accessed from anywhere by Apple even added weather and stock widgets changed how notifications appear. Instead of a pop-up window that interrupts roll in from the top in a much more discreet Allowing you to continue playing a game or the way. Apple also introduced notifications on the see what they missed while their phone was And if they wanted to take action, a user of the notifications to go straight to the A new feature that wasn't as exciting was Which was a folder on a user's home screen newspapers, and journals. But most people were confused what exactly Because Newsstand didn't function like other It couldn't be dropped into a folder with removed. It was essentially a permanent folder on a unless magazine subscriptions were purchased. Resulting in complaints from users who felt clutter to their home screen. And with the rise in popularity of Twitter, 5. Giving users the ability to sign in just one for any third party app that needs it. It also became possible to tweet images directly or websites from safari, tweet videos from from Maps. Plus, iOS could automatically update a user's twitter accounts. And Safari received a new feature called reader Which would take an article from a webpage Removing all the ads and distractions. Plus, reader view would automatically change experience on iPhone. There was also a new reading list feature. Where users could save articles and stories All links added to reading list were updated on Windows, so they could be accessed anywhere. iOS 5 was also the first time tabbed browsing Although the iPhone had such little RAM that a user went back to it. There was also a new app called Reminders. Which let users store their grocery lists It featured time-based reminders that would But also location-based reminders, that would alert the user once they entered or left that For example, iOS could remind a user to call them to take the meat out of the freezer once Another major upgrade in iOS 5 was the camera. Which, for the first time, featured a shortcut So users could quickly wake their phone and special moment they are trying to capture. It even bypassed the user's passcode. So anyone could take a picture quickly without other functionality on the phone. And once inside the camera app, users could of the touchscreen button. Something you can still do in iOS today. And optional gridlines were added so users zoom was added, and an auto-exposure plus keep changing up exposure and focus once a iOS 5 was also the first time any sort of photos app. You could crop and rotate, remove red eye, on Mac OS. A system-wide dictionary was added to iOS app and a define button would appear. Tapping it would bring up a dictionary entry And for the first time ever, iPhones could to a PC. One of the main attractions with the original Where users could plug in to their computers information, and more. It was the same approach Apple took with iPod. But that method was becoming inconvenient For example, users who purchased a new iPhone had iTunes. Even if they were replacing an existing iPhone And every time an iPhone needed a software So users felt tethered to a computer that transitioning to mobile devices like iPads So in iOS 5, Apple cut the cord. Allowing iPhones and iPads to be set up and a computer. This was a huge change that really put mobile one was no longer bound to the other. When it came to Game Center, over 50 million debut in iOS 4 just nine months earlier. And Apple added a few new capabilities like recommendations, and game recommendations. Which allows you to find and downloaded new Finally, turn-based game support let users But most importantly, iOS 5 marked the debut in North America; iMessage. Until this point, all messages sent from iPhone That's why the messages app itself is green But with iMessages, Apple created a completely iOS users, including iPad and iPod touch, It not only allowed for texts, photos, videos, always had. But it expanded functionality to include delivery synced conversations that were updated across iOS 6 Now by 2012, Apple had sold over 365 million With more than 80% of those running the latest This was a unique strength of Apple's platform Which was constantly struggling with fragmentation Only seven percent of their user base was Which was introduced about the same time as This discouraged developers from making apps and forced them to optimize their apps for During this same period, Apple introduced Which added exclusive support for a new voice But many people were confused why the feature the iPod touch, iPad, or even older iPhone Many speculated that it was a ploy to boost official reason. But for the latest version of iOS, iOS 6, and made the assistant more knowledgeable Siri could even launch apps, all with a simple And Apple partnered with select car manufacturers Where a dedicated Siri button would be integrated interact with Siri while keeping their eyes turned off. And just like how Apple integrated Twitter in iOS 6. Allowing users to use single sign on and post native apps. The phone app was updated with new reply features Like reply with message, and remind me later. Allowing users to quickly send a text message user to call them back later. And as users have been receiving more notifications sometimes they'd rather not be disturbed Which is why Apple introduced Do Not Disturb Which silences incoming calls, messages, and missed when they're ready to wake their Now when the iPhone 4 was introduced in 2010, it's new front-facing camera. And in 2012, improvements were made to the At first, FaceTime was only available over FaceTime calls over cellular. Apple also allowed users to unify their phone Which meant someone could answer a FaceTime Mac instead. The same functionality was introduced to iMessage Making the experience of messaging and FaceTiming Safari also received some big updates in iOS Like iCloud Tabs, which synced a user's And offline reading lists, which downloads list. That way, users can access and read them without And uploading photos to websites through Safari Smart app banners were also introduced, which of a specific website. Giving users a more optimized experience, Mail received a new VIP mailbox, which notified stars next to their email in the unified inbox Apple also added a new way to insert photos a pull to refresh feature to check for new Next, iOS 6 introduced a completely new app Which kept a user's movie tickets, boarding But it would intelligently suggest passes For example, a movie ticket would show up theater. Now, the most talked-about feature in iOS Since Apple's contract with Google had expired. Resulting in the native YouTube app being Apple instead of Google. At first, users were excited about the switch. Since it meant the introduction of features Allowing people to ditch their Garmin GPS And there was flyover, a 3D rendering of the Something Google Maps never had. But once iPhone users began using the new Apple painted during its introduction began Screenshots of buggy satellite images began Along with silly errors like Kyiv, the capital Or the Welsh town Pontypridd being shown 6 The English town Stratford-upon-Avon was missing And when users looked up &quot;London,&quot; they were instead of the capital of the United Kingdom. Countless Apple Maps errors made their rounds laughingstock. Which helped make Google Maps the most downloaded It became such a big issue that Tim Cook published September 28, 2012. Just nine days after iOS 6 and with it, Apple In the letter Cook said, "At Apple, we strive the best experience possible to our customers. With the launch of our new Maps last week, We are extremely sorry for the frustration everything we can to make Maps better." This response was standard for Apple, but many. Cook wrote, "While we're improving Maps, apps from the App Store like Bing, MapQuest to their websites and creating an icon on That's that part of the letter which created Not many CEOs would give their customers explicit And no one liked this less than Scott Forstall. The man who not only introduced Apple Maps, Anonymous sources told The Verge that Forstall were overblown. A belief he held so strongly that he refused Many inside Apple felt this was the last straw Who'd developed enemies among the company's Even Jonathan Ive, Apple's longtime head attend meetings in the same room as Forstall And since Forstall refused to sign the letter Apple's team entirely. With his 2013 departure being announced on Just one month after Apple Maps was released. This shakeup of Apple's executive team had of iOS. As Jonathan Ive took over software design You see, there was a long-standing dispute Steve Jobs and Scott Forstall favored Skeuomorphism. Or software features that mimicked physical Like a notes app that looked like a real notebook, But there was an opposing view that favored Of which Jonathan Ive was an advocate. And since he took control of iOS's user a highly anticipated release. iOS 7 And the hype was well worth it. Since, in 2013, iOS 7 Proved to be the most system since the original release in 2007. Its introduction video earned Apple a standing The interface of iOS 7 was completely changed. Transitioning from a skeuomorphic design full a completely minimal and flat design. Craig Federighi even said this during the felt, and wood as well this has gotta be good But there was more to iOS 7 than its appearance. Apple added some incredible new features that Starting with Control Center. By swiping up from the bottom of iPhone's most used features. Like wifi, bluetooth, airplane mode, brightness, You could even turn on a flashlight and access This was also the first version of iOS that That could predict what app you might use That way, it could keep the most relevant while ignoring ones you're less likely to And one of the most crucial features of the It allowed people to share files with nearby This was in response to an Android file sharing devices together. Which is why Craig Federighi clarified this, your phone with others." The camera also received a big update, featuring Previously, users had to tap the options button, Or they'd have to tap a toggle in a different But iOS 7 consolidated all of the camera modes So users could quickly and easily swipe between Live photo filters were also added to the photos or classic recolored photos on the And all of these photos could be accessed Previously, in iOS 6, users had to scroll simply ordered chronologically. But iOS 7 took existing data from each photo way with something Apple called Moments. It recognized where and when photos were taken, So photos taken at, say, Baker Beach on May with that date and location. This not only provided a more enjoyable photo The new photos app also let users zoom all And holding down on the mosaic of small photos Letting users quickly scrub through a large iOS 7 also introduced shared photo streams, contribute their own photos to a larger collection. Perfect for making sure everyone has all the Siri received not only a new interface in Which sounded more realistic than before. Plus, an optional male voice was added. And Siri could do more than ever before, like or turning on bluetooth. Apple also added twitter integration, wikipedia Allowing Siri to answer more trivial questions. And iOS 7 was the first time CarPlay was ever Apple initially called the feature iOS In And aimed to make it easier and safer than to messages, all eyes-free through Siri. And the App Store finally received automatic by an endless amount of red badges reminding Now iOS 7 was well-received among casual iOS community that hated the new user interface. With some even refusing to upgrade from iOS That's why you might hear people say "iOS started going downhill after iOS 6." And while the new interface did represent language, it also represented something deeper since the early days. iOS 6 was sort've the last remnants of Steve He and Scott Forstall had created similar computers in the 90s. And transitioning away from the legacy was for Jobs or Forstall. Some even though Apple would begin going downhill decade later to save it. Similar to what Jobs had done in the late But again, that was just a desire to relive So while iOS 7 was the most controversial direction for Apple. iOS 8 Now despite all of that drama and resistance users had upgraded to it in 2014, just nine So it was clear that users were happy with And iOS 8 took things just a little bit further. It introduced interactive notifications, which to take action. Like replying to a message or accepting a app you're in. This also works right from the lock screen. Apple also added a contacts shortcut in the time. Since the feature was later removed in iOS There was also convenient new gestures in or delete them entirely. All with just a swipe. The keyboard in iOS 8 received QuickType. Which predicted the word a user might want than manually typing it out. And continuity made switching between Apple Since you could start creating something like up where you left off on your iPad. Messages received several enchantments in allow users to name threads, add and remove messages on do not disturb so the endless And users could decide to leave the group Crucial features for the best group messaging Apple also added tap to talk, which recorded back and forth. And a new app called Health was added to iOS Which was a single place for all a user's Previously, information from different accessories And there was no way to consolidate all the more complete look at their health profile. Well by connecting those third party apps one place to view that data. And they could even give health care professionals in real time. So they could receive more timely and effective There were also helpful family sharing features Where multiple devices could be set up as Which automatically enabled a shared photo list, and even a find my friends maps with the location of their devices. But even more impressive, was that Apple allowed movie and TV show purchases. Making it easier than ever to share digital And because all the accounts share the same buy an app or movie without receiving permission Who would be sent a notification that their Photos also received an update with iCloud photos from any device, and new editing features over photo edits than in iOS 7. Although this is when the dreaded 'iCloud issue. Mainly because the new iCloud photos feature space. Once it was full, other features like iCloud But Apple was happy to offer a solution in For ninety nine cents a month, users would And for three ninety-nine, 200GB. Apple Pay debuted for the first time on iOS cards and simply tap their iPhone to a compatible iOS 8 also added new capabilities to Siri. Like Hey, Siri support if your device was iOS 9 But it wasn't until iOS 9 that Siri got First, it featured a new interface that moved colorful one. And it got 40% faster with 40% less voice It understood location and time-based requests. Like searching for photos you took at a certain Or setting a reminder once you got back to You could even ask Siri "remind me about what webpage you're viewing at that moment, And this contextual intelligence was implemented For example, if the first thing you do every for a run, iOS will automatically bring up If you typically listen to audiobooks in the your audiobook when you get in your car. And if someone emails you a calendar invite, the calendar app and even set a reminder to And if a random number calls you that matches iOS will suggest who might be calling. And when you swipe left from the home screen, Which, depending on the time of day and your you might be interested in. And of course all of this intelligence data With Apple or third parties not having access Now with the growing popularity of Apple Pay, a wallet. Since it stored user's credit and debit So in iOS 9 the app's name changed from Making it clear that Apple intended to replace The notes app received several enhancements, easier, allows users to add checklists, add with their finger. Even Safari allows links to be saved directly Apple Maps received a new public transit feature, and exits so you don't need to walk further Although the feature was only initially available And iOS 9 feature a completely new app called Which allowed users to choose which publications stories in a more appealing and interactive on the web or even in a publications native Low power mode was also brought to iOS for an additional three hours of use. And upgrading to iOS 9 only required 1.3GB of the 4.6GB of space needed to download iOS Which made it much more accessible to iPhones And Apple Music was introduced for the first subscription service designed to compete with iOS 10 Now in 2016, iOS 10 was designed with the Because it introduced a faster Touch ID sensor didn't get to see their notifications before So Apple created a feature called raise to on their lock screen without pressing a button. By simply raising their iPhone, the display any notifications. And because of the 6S's new 3D Touch feature, Which allowed users to press on a notification to a text, or seeing a live status update Control center was also redesigned and featured to access. And for the first time, users could simply camera. While sliding to the right allowed users to And in iOS 10 Apple did something fairly unexpected Allowing users to send WeChat messages or Quicktype also become smarter. With a deeper understand of sentence context, information, and recent addresses at just In Photos, the new Places map allows users facial recognition automatically builds albums Even matching faces to names based on photos And the same deep learning technology is applied So iOS knows what's in the photo, like a And this enabled a feature called Memories. Which groups photos together based on places, Then creates a movie so you can experience The Maps app was redesigned and updated with It included traffic on route, and a new dynamic and what traffic looks like further ahead. There are also quick controls that show you maps will tell you how much longer the trip Now the iOS In The Car feature introduced And was available in most new vehicles. But iOS 10 added a new feature that allowed the car's instrument cluster. Although the feature was only ever implemented At this point, Apple Music had been out for The app's interface was completely redesigned, intuitive. The News app also received a facelift, along news notifications. And a completely new app called Home was introduced Which gave users a place to organize and control Scenes could be created, which saved settings purpose. Like turning off all the lights and locking And these scenes could be control through And interactive notifications allows HomeKit a notification right from the lock screen. But one of my favorite features of iOS 10 app. Users no longer had to spend time listening Instead, they could be transcribed into text and easily. And with the rise of robocalls, iOS could In messages, sending links became much more Since support for rich links allowed for photos in the message. And if you sent a string of three emoji or in the message field. Plus, Quicktype could suggest emoji you might And if you select the emoji keyboard after that you might want to change to an emoji. Which users could do with just a tap. Bubble effects also came to Messages in iOS to communicate their point more effectively. And Tap Back allowed for quick reactions to But sometimes, a personal response is needed. Which is why handwritten messages were introduced, through text. Also, full-screen effects were added. Like fireworks, balloons, or confetti. iOS 11 Now even though Messages already received even further in 2017 with iOS 11. They added an App Drawer so users could quickly And finally, Apple brought Messages to iCloud. So when you sign in to a new device, all your synced. Apple Pay was integrated into Messages, with Similar to Venmo or Cash App. Siri received a new, even more natural-sounding Plus a brand new interface and the ability The camera app now captures photos and video better compression taking up half the storage And Control Center has been redesigned once 3D Touch allowed larger panes of controls And notification center was integrated directly Live photos could also be edited and effects Maps also received new detailed floorpans and browsing by floor. Along with navigation improvements like displaying know which lane to be in before taking an And a new feature called Do Not Disturb While turned off and silences notifications if iPhone You can even allow automatic responses to reach your destination. The Home app adds support for smart speakers throughout your house. But the biggest change in iOS 11 came to the Which received its first major redesign since A new Today tab was added, so users could And the game category received its own dedicated Not only because it's the most popular app own gaming subscription service Apple Arcade years. iOS 12 Now in 2018, iOS 12 was all about optimization With Apple being able to offer it on every Which, at that moment, represented the largest But Apple didn't just want to run iOS 12 For example, a four year old iPhone 6S running keyboard would appear 50% faster, and opening faster. Apple also wanted to improve all device's Which they were able to make two times faster. iOS 12 was also the first time Apple introduced Working with PIXAR to create a new file format they wanted to deliver. And Apple created a new app called Measure It allowed users to simply point their iPhone's line between two points, then a measurement The Photos app received a new feature called people, and places that are most important And photos now indexes over 4 million events So you can search for an event you attended, There's also a new tab called For You, which shared album activity, and even sharing suggestions. Which intelligently recommends photos you at the event or in the photos. Siri Shortcuts was added in iOS 12, which Siri commands. For example, the Tile app can create a shortcut when they tell Siri "I lost my keys." And Siri Suggestions learns what you do at you don't have to do them manually. Like ordering coffee in the morning, or launching And with the Shortcuts app, users can customize any way they like. The Stock app received a new design, along And the iBooks app was updated along with CarPlay was updated with support for third added to iOS prevent your iPhone from becoming Like Do Not Disturb At Bedtime, which displays any new notifications. And grouped notifications, which prevents them by app or topic. With just one swipe, an entire group of notifications Lastly, Screen Time. Which sends users a weekly report of how they Sharing how many minutes of time was spent their iPhone each hour, and which apps sent With this data, users can even set app limits. Which will track how much time they've spent when they're time is almost up. Now the recently released iPhone X brought to create fun animated emoji. And in iOS 12, Apple added support for tongue koala, tiger, and T-Rex. Plus, Memoji was added for the first time. Allowing users to create and customize their And Group FaceTime was also available in iOS to 32 people at the same time. iOS 13 Now in 2019, Apple revealed iOS 13. Which introduced one of the most requested And that, was Dark Mode. Apple even made a short video revealing the Dark Mode took the bright white backgrounds black. Which made using the device at night much Not only for the user, but for the people Since they wouldn't be distracted by the But there was more to iOS 13 than Dark Mode. Apple again optimized performance, so that download sizes were 50% smaller, and app updates And launching those apps become two times And the reminders app in particular received Receiving intelligent contextual reminders details or attachments with just a tap, new with a top-level reminder, and smart lists one place. Apple Maps also received the biggest update With Apple using LIDAR on hundreds of plane them to rebuild the app from the ground up. The results were impressive, with more accurate more. And a new favorites bar allowed users to access While collections let users save many different friends. But the biggest new feature was Look Around. A feature similar to Google's Street View area actually looks like from the ground level. But Apple's differentiating factor was the a street with Look Around. Something that was more choppy on Google Maps. Apple also made privacy enhancements in iOS In With Apple. Which allowed users to create new accounts information all with the ease of Face ID or And if apps request your email, users can relays messages to your real email address, There was also HomeKit Secure Video, which sending video footage to the cloud to be analyzed. Instead, Apple can analyze the video in a or Apple TV. Then it's encrypted and securely sent to it. And since Memoji were becoming more popular options when making them. Plus, Memoji sticker were added for the first Which supported not only devices with Face Photos added new photo editing effects that the first time. And in the new days tab, intelligent organization and just focused on the best shots. With the months tab, user's most important So it feels more like a diary of their life, While years shows users similar events of Adding a more emotional photo viewing experience. Announce Messages came in iOS 13, which let were received. Although this was something that annoyed many But audio sharing was received much better Who liked the idea of sharing audio they were And Handoff with HomePod meant users could home by simply holding their iPhone close CarPlay also received a big update, with redesigned Where drivers could see their directions, one place. And Siri's voice was update once again, neural text to speech. Which made the cadence of longer sentences Lastly, silence unknown callers was added Which sent calls from random numbers, typically Then giving users a notification that the iOS 14 In 2020, iOS 14 was revealed. Which added crucial improvements to the iPhone Like the App Library. It solved the problem of managing pages and there. App Library took all those apps and automatically And since user no longer needed those extra them in jiggle mode. And the introduction of widgets on the home never before possible on iOS. Picture-in-picture mode was also available, When it came to Siri, users finally got the interface that no longer obscured content There was also a new app called translate. Which featured conversation mode, a side by language spoken and translated it accordingly. In messages, user's most important conversations So they don't get lost in a long list of Memoji received even more customization options and mentions made group conversations easier And group conversations could now be customized group name. Apple Maps received a new feature called Guides, places to eat, shop, or explore. In addition to cycling directions, which helps and roads. It accounts for elevation, and even notifies if they'll have to carry their bike up a EV Routing was also added to Maps, but it vehicle. Of which there are still very few. Similarly, the new digital car key feature car with their iPhone, only worked on compatible Which, at launch, was only one; the BMW 5 And to help users with the complications of and services, Apple created App Clips. Which is a mini version of a full-size app, you need it. Although even today, the feature hasn't iOS 15 In 2021, iOS 15 helped users stay connected, intelligence. Starting with FaceTime. Which received support for Spacial Audio. Making it sound like the person they're Voice isolation was also added, which used and help your voice sound clearer. But if users want all the background sound Which enhances ambient noise in addition to can hear it all. Grid view was also added which made group Which blurs the background and puts the focus FaceTime links allows users to plan calls email, WhatsApp, or even through a calendar And for the first time, Windows and Android same link. Now when you're on a FaceTime call, a new listen to music together, watch TV shows or So helping your grandma fix something on her And in Messages, links sent by family and area in their respective apps. So Safari features a section of links received And the News app has a section of shared articles. Allowing you to views these shared links on right away. Even the photos app saves photos shared by them into your library, without you having Plus, shared with you is smart enough to ignore cluttering up your photo library. And with a new feature called Focus, users at what time. Along with notification summaries that only in the moment, while everything else is displayed Which can be delivered whenever you choose, And Apple made it easy for other to see when in messages. So they know when to send a message, and when There's also a new feature called Live Text, then allows them to be selected and copied. But iOS could recognize more than text. Visual lookup allows animals, objects, and This also means your photos are searchable And rich results for contacts provides more with most. Photo memories received more customization as soundtracks. Wallet received support for a new ultra wide and digital state IDs. Something that's still only supported by The weather app received a big update, with after acquiring the popular weather app Dark Including new weather maps that visually display Apple Maps received a new interactive globe, nighttime mode, and even custom designed landmarks. There's also a new augmented reality experience to find the nearest station exit. iOS 16 And in the most recently version of iOS, iOS ever. With the ability to customize the typeface the photo style, and add widgets. All right on the lock screen. Plus, you can create different lock screen Like one lock screen for work, and a different But notifications risk covering up the new So Apple changed the way notifications appear. Now rolling in from the bottom without obscuring And live activities prevent live event notifications them all in a widget that can be placed neatly And media controls can also now be contained And since it's possible to have multiple to different focus modes. Which not only changes the lock screen, but even into the apps themselves with focus filters. Which let you filter out distracting content. For example, safari can show you only work-related Then hide them once you're home and activate Messages also receives some highly requested Like editing sent messages, deleting sent you remember to come back to it later. And SharePlay can be used in Messages as well Allowing users to text while watching a movie FaceTime call. And the keyboard's dictation feature now Making composing a message much easier. The Live text feature introduced in iOS 15 So you can pause a video on a frame with text, image. And camera view in the translate app allows But one of the coolest features is an update its background and paste it to another app Allowing users to quickly crop images in a And with tap to pay on iPhone, stores can And Apple Pay Later lets users split the cost spread over six weeks, with no interest or Apple Maps now supports multistop routing ahead of time. And with Apple's newfound focus on sports, many prominent sports outlets. Family Sharing was updated with easier ways requests in messages. Where kids can ask for more screen time, and go to settings. And Family Checklist provides helpful suggestions get older, turning on location sharing, or be shared with everyone in the family. And with iCloud Shared Photo Library, friends even automatically. By setting parameters of what to include based people can automatically share photos to a that otherwise would be fragment across multiple While Safety Check makes it easy for users the ability to review and reset access they've Who might be able to see their location and cut ties. So after sixteen major releases of iOS, we're than ever before. Doing things that were previously impossible And only time will tell where iOS will take This is Greg with Apple Explained, I hope and I'll see you in the next one.