This is one of my favourite scenes from The man you see on the left is Louis Bloom, a catch footage of accidents and crimes to The woman on the right is detective Frontieri, recent shootout that happened between At first glance, the scene feels like any The detective asks some questions, But something weird happens when Lou begins telling 'It began earlier in the day', 'I was watering my plant'. Right there. Now, obviously, this line makes more sense it probably feels weirder than it really but considering how the rest of his statement mentioning his plant seems like a very odd move to make. 'That's your story?' So why did Lou start his sentence with this? For starters, there are actually three Lou waters his plant - once after the once during the montage sequence, and once You may also have noticed from the timing at the same time of the day. The when he is back at home, and is watching This is more than taking care a ritual he practices for a very specific You see, this is Nightcrawler's way of saying that he is a psychopath The reason why Lou mentions watering his plant is because he is trying to appeal to the detective Think about it. Is there a way to act Although outward appearance surely is one thing or for that matter, any character - While the infamous psychopath stare can seem like power to stand on its own, and truth be told, it's And yes, I'm saying Lou is a psychopath only As far as I know, psychopathy is not it's something that can only be assessed. It'd be more accurate to refer to psychopathy borderline, narcissistic, but given the complex nature of ASPD, we're personality disorders present in this That means we're not going to talk about although since sociopaths are are more prone to emotional bursts, it may arguably fit Lou's character better. Now, as it unsurprisingly turns and play psychopathy in a film. The issue but in how you use them together. And that's what the perfect collaboration among different cinematic including the narrative arc, the score, the For instance, take a look at this scene between Lou and Nina, Now, Nina is here merely for the and also because Lou passive aggressively Lou, on the other hand, has in a nutshell, he wants to sleep with her. With that, listen to how the conversation starts. 'My body's so off I feel like it's time for breakfast.' 'I bet you're beautiful any time of the day'. 'I'd say you're much prettier than Lisa Mays.' While Nina tries to ease up the awkward tension, That's why the first round ends with a nervous laughter Now, watch how Lou responds to this signal. 'I like the dark make-up on your eyes. This line is significant for a number of reasons. First, it is clear that Lou cannot and does Second, his words suggest that he does not see Nina as a gives Nina is nothing but descriptive and surface instead, he simply wants to possess The longer this scene carries on, the more evident from the unnatural timing of his laughs, sex, and money. As a matter of fact, you focus inward by looking at when the camera Naturally, the two instances of the choker shots are with Lou openly threatening Nina with his there is a sense of balance in the numerous there is no true connection between the two separate them. Even when you do get a two shot, make sense of what Lou is saying, or when Lou is 'Because as I'm sure you know...' 'a friend is a gift you give yourself.' Now, what you just saw is one of where the film decides to plainly reveal draws his character in a more subtle way by solely For this example, which happens just 5 minutes into the film, sharing the actual scene. Take a minute to read Ready? I assume most people won't it reads like a self introduction - But watch what happens Suddenly, every word sounds like a red flag. The way Lou carries himself doesn't help, and rehearsed the lines a million times - it's because this speech is strategically written A typical informal speech is conversational, words and fillers with longer pauses. What it is formal, structured, with little to The only thing that is repeatedly used is the word vocabulary, just feels like something Lou However, the most intriguing part of when the owner of the scrapyard says, "I'm not hiring a f-ing thief" ...and Lou reacts with... Few things to take away from this reaction. emotionally by the remark; instead, he sees this Second, this tells the audience he cannot be a thief as an employee, but that Also, note that this doesn't equate every encounter is a learning process for him, The interaction wasn't a failure because There is a wonderful scene around half way this focus Lou carries with his identity. solid by this time, and Nina sees him as one Now, when Nina hands over the cheque in 'framing'? Okay. You may think that this simply demonstrates more to this preface than meets the eye - &quot;Is that blood on your shirt?&quot; This line itself isn't If you go back to the moment Nina hands Lou Lou's shirt for a brief second. This is the but many people will probably miss the divides the emphasis between the cheque and The result is a quick and others will not. Note that it's after Nina looking down at Lou's shirt, and after this an order of presentation that seems flipped from For the rest of the scene, too, the camera never characters constantly redirect their attention Now, this part doesn't have much to do with but it does have something to do with targeting. It's saying that the story has moved on, from the previous scene has no place under on Lou's current status - that he has yet again In a similar manner, the scene is that he only cares about his own success, and not the And if you think about it, this kind of While Lou may take great pride in site of the accident to create the perfect incidents in as much detail as he does, ...or not. This is just one of many balances the film creates symmetry - a constant presence of counterbalance Now, obviously, nothing in this film can but just like how your thirst for the horrific there are things in this film that at least to the character or the story itself. Although very deceptive and minimal in effect, add a human touch to his character. Likewise, of immorality to varying degrees to dampen The scrapyard owner ends up buying from Lou for the store owner catches Lou's bluff but still accepts it; Nina pretty much supports and even Rick tries to blackmail Lou likelihood more justified than other examples. and the film makes sure to highlight it. In nothing to do with Lou and try their hardest to clearly was mistreated for the longest time; Lou threatens her, saying that friends would Lou is a completely self-sustaining entity in life may act as a mitigator, but in no way are Lou may talk, smile, and act a certain way to come but is in no shape or form, He does not change. That's why the film opens up with Lou attacking to make sure that the audience doesn't think He always has been, and will always be. Again, it's all about Lou, And what packages the entire film at the end When Nightcrawler first released about the film's choice of music and how does often contradict the mood of the scene, a grandiose melody for a vulgar speech, etc. And I personally never felt that the score intends to use music to describe the scene; One of my favourite examples of this speech about dreams in the middle of his Nina's already not vibing with Let's be clear about two things: this was not the time for such a speech; It's another one of his rehearsed pretensions that But listen to the music. It is just as cringey and melodramatic as the speech itself. Why? Because Lou believes 'On TV it looks so real' 'Yes, it does' The same goes for the next big sequence, where Lou gets one of his best footage to date by He promptly takes out his camera, proceeds to move the body, and films it like it's an ultimate act of sacrifice and the music reflects that. In fact, pretty much every critical sequence uses music that is, quote on quote, incapable of assessing the environment and If the music, (and honestly, the film itself) is supposed to echo the POV of it would always sound exaggerated, awkward, or This is the music that plays as Lou tells Rick The more you know. It's possible that the discordant melodies of it mirrors a part of the world Lou follows to His cadence, choice of words, and interjections personas he follows on a daily basis, coming straight from the manufactured canned laughter Every comma, and every beat of Lou's existence, from a passing line to a visual The artificiality and the almost perverted words and actions are carried over to the you may think that this burdens the viewers with placed in Lou's shoes, but that is not the case. fictional character to an entire group the same one person to be in charge: Louis Bloom. He is the protagonist of this story, hitting lines on cues, being under the spotlight, playing the song of triumph as he And we are simply watching it all unfold. What better way to convey a to have the film itself manipulated and fooled? Thanks for watching. Hello everyone, thank you so much for watching to talk about multiple films to discuss but upon rewatching Nightcrawler, I realized from this film alone, and had to let go of Country for Old Men, and the lesser talked We Need to Talk About Kevin, which, if you're in the sponsor for today's video. streaming service dedicated to elevating great works of iconic directors all the way to emerging a great way to watch films you already love and Like I said, We Need to Talk about Kevin is very dark themes involving a character that and the way the film builds on this spoil anything but I highly recommend you 30 day trial at Mubi.com/spikimamovies. That's me know what you thought about