Hello everyone, today I'm very So Purly, how many languages have you learned So I learned I'm I'm learning like English. English is my first language that I like. Started to learn first foreign language and then later I learned French, So that's all the languages that I'm And for English, I first came in contact At that time, it was just a So I remember like my parents bought So I just listened to them a lot And that's how I started my Oh, that's amazing that you had real content and you kept going and very Now on your YouTube channel, you talk And I know all my students are very So can you speak a little bit OK, yeah, So my lazy way is basically I try to So it's not necessarily like a sit down in front It's more like, for example, when like washing dishes, I listen to like Or like when I'm like taking a nap, I also It's always going to be like a language that For example, when I'm like doing exercise, And also I like to watch YouTube videos a lot. So I also watch topics that I'm really So that's basically how I try to integrate So for me that that becomes not really that like a study session anymore. It feels like I'm just like enjoying it I love that and what a smart approach We don't have time to just sit you can do it while you're doing other things. I really love that approach. Thank you. One thing I noticed about your YouTube you're very honest about struggles even though you said you've been learning You speak very fluently, but you admit that So can you share some strategies that you've found helpful for yourself to overcome Yes, so I so like to be honest, I still just I'm speaking like a foreign language, even if feel like sometimes I need extra time to think, And then am I going to make it But one thing I would really suggest to start speaking with others, you can like opening talk or like phrases that So like when you really you got really you could just use the phrases And I think sometimes after you say something lot and you will feel better and ease easier for So I would say just get by the 1st, And yeah, that might help a lot. I think that would help a lot, yeah. Yeah, that's great advice and can So for English, what would be a phrase that that that you can use when you feel So for example, if I'm like going it's someone that I've never met before, And then it's about maybe I would just say like And I would just like imagine people for example, I'm a YouTube right now. So they will be thinking, wow, So what do you do? And then I will started to just like memorize the topics of travels and language learning So I think these subjects and topics like what would people be curious about and like for example, like other group of a are just maybe just listening and So I think I find phrases Yeah, that's so cool. Wow, that's amazing. Things like that to be very useful really understand 100% what people I can still say that sentences and usually people will find out that you actually don't So I use this kind of techniques to That's a really practical tip and for all my Think of some phrases and write them down, practice them, and then that will help Thank you so much for sharing that, Pearly. That's awesome. Now also you I have these videos on YouTube speaking and you're doing it alone, but you're And a lot of my students say that I can't improve my English because I don't So can you talk about your strategy for Yeah, So I think 1 misconception that we need someone to practice speaking with. But a lot of time you can actually do it yourself. For example, you can start talking to yourself. I know it's not going to be something that is but I would really suggest with For example, right now, I often use ChatGPT So I could just like refer to it, start practice conversation using And I think talk to yourself is best methods when you have no one to Because I think speaking skill is the coordination your mental efforts and also your physical And then your brand has to think But you don't necessarily need So as long as you that your mouth actually form sentences in your head, then actually like you don't actually need like And sometimes I think there are advantages For example, if there is someone with you, you might get very nervous and But when you are speaking with I I suppose. So you will feel like more comfortable saying Yeah, just generate and form different So I would say like you, like you couldn't Yeah. Well, that's an excellent strategy since most even when they live in in a Still, you're not just out and Most people are just sitting in So that's a great strategy. Now you mentioned using ChatGPT. Can you give us a specific prompt? What would you enter into ChatGPT first to can open up ChatGPT and try this themselves? So I usually I usually use For example, just give me a conversation for the first time and give me a Something like that. Then yeah, it will all like just like So like the prompt itself doesn't I feel like because chat GPD is very smart. Yeah, absolutely. So. You get ChatGPT to give you the conversation imagine you're answering the the question or or So I usually do it like two ways. First is that I only ask ChatGPT to generate But sometimes when I couldn't I also ask ChatGPT needed to generate like So like, when I don't want to think I just read along the whole say, like Mary and Tom, like the whole And then just like, read, read it out now. And that's all, Yeah. Well, that's a great strategy. It's free, you're practicing your and you're learning vocabulary, grammar So what a great approach that Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Now thinking about speaking, a lot of my Jennifer, I've been learning English my I can understand native speakers, I can read, I can write, but when I open my What advice would you give to those students? I would say, I think most of the time And it is like mainly because like I guess because we are asked to have to say something in front of a lot And when you say something wrong, I mean in, I think with a good intention to start you and then you will have this like trauma So I would say like most of the say something even though we want to, it's So like later I also experienced that a lot when So I actually like just like push myself and like today I'm here to make mistakes. If I do not make at least one mistake then I'm not reaching my goal. So I'm not like my goal is never like I have to make perfect sentences all the time. It's never like that. It's always like I need to make at least Like that. That's the goal of like my So yeah, I use that kind of like mindset as possible because this is how you can actually others because it's just so difficult, especially They speak really fast and It's not like when you write or when you listen, check whether like you understand it or not Like when it's like very fast, then you have to Yeah. That's very powerful. I'm here to make mistakes. I'm here to make mistakes. I think everyone should write that not just with languages, with anything in Because if you're not making you're probably not trying very hard, That's very powerful. I'm here to make mistakes. Wow, thank you for sharing that. You're welcome. Now speaking about mistakes, though, what about this fear of being judged by native speakers they're not going to get the job or something really bad is going to What, what strategies have you Just to push that a little more so students do feel more comfortable to get Yeah, it's a really good question and I think it's definitely something that But one thing that I would try to imagine is learning like a second language, for example, if is native tongue, which is Mandarin, Mandarin, I probably wouldn't care that much. And I actually, I think I would think And then like he or she is willing to try So I think with this mindset, I will feel more at when I actually make mistake, I would feel like And there are going to be some people and feel like how could you make such There are always going to be people that kind of people and like basically they just don't understand the difficulty So yeah, that's basically how, like this kind of fear of trying to, you know, Yeah. Especially when I'm still in the beginner stage. Yeah. That's a powerful strategy because you're right, if we all imagine ourselves as the native a couple grammar mistakes, what And most of the time, it's not going to be So that's a very powerful strategy. Thanks for sharing that. Now, if my students were only going to do one to improve their English confidence, I would definitely recommend doing shadow in practice because I really For those who don't know what shadow in practice is that you pick like either an article with I think it would be easier that with a topic that really interested you and And then you just like follow along with it. You can post it, pause it, and And then you just do it again and again and again. And I really like to do this way to practice my pronunciation. And also it really helps me to be more confident Because I think the more you speak and then this language English, then it's easier for real life to open your mouth because you And then you will realize that not that bad after you practice So I really like this practice myself and So shadow someone, find a audio or video clip, listen to a short section, Emphasis on out. Loud. Yeah. Thank you for emphasizing. Yeah, emphasizing on that exactly. And how do you find these clips I usually just try to look for it on I like travel vlogs or like talking kind So I just look for that kind of videos. But I would say for beginners, I usually look like teach English, because the host So it's easier to follow and OK, that's great advice. So as a beginner, focus on language and then as you get more advanced, focus Exactly. Yeah. Excellent advice everyone. So make sure you commit to shadowing practice. Put shadow. Put shadow in the comments Now Pearly, you have an awesome YouTube channel. I love watching your videos, so where they can find you and what they So I in my YouTube channel, it's called So I make a lot of like language learning the opportunity to travel abroad I really like interested in those topics. So that's basically the three main So yeah, just feel free to come, Yeah, my YEAH channel, or you could also find So, yeah, thank you. I'll put that in the description Well, thank you so much for being here Thank you so much to for your invitation.