What do you want 50 years from now history I hope that, and I really do work, that my life will have proven that is about fighting for the people. As with any presidential candidate, on the campaign trail. You just watched a clip What I didn't expect, though, was that she conducted, either the production companies that was interviewing her would get paid, or in the case of Al Sharpton, her campaign made two $250,000 donations in September and October the nonprofit that Al Sharpton runs. All right, so he wasn't the only one. The campaign also gave $350,000 which is run by Roland Martin. Now, Martin interviewed Harris on his and Martin did confirm but that money was for advertisement. And then he added this. In typical Roland Martin fashion, More should have been spent While, Roland, I'm here to give you on black media, just not you. Because when it came to her interview that she had spent or her campaign, I should say, had spent $1 million which is Oprah's production company. But, later the filings indicated And this is according to the filings The Harris campaign Okay. Yeah. And Winfrey, by the way, not paid a dime for the event. The money actually went toward, and all of the other equipment She says, quote, my production company, Harpo, camera crew, producers including the benches and the chairs I did not take any personal fee. However, the people who worked on that End of story. - No, not. So okay I'm going to let you jump in it is there are new shows Right. So when Donald Trump went on Rogan at least as far as we know. The Trump campaign did not do that. That's why it's referred You know, that three hour sit had to spend any campaign money on, some pretty handsome dividends, considering the fact that Joe Rogan episode did really well numbers wise. And so I don't know why Harris I'm not saying she had to do Joe other shows like, you don't need have they have a production already. They do a daily show or a weekly show. You could have gone Yeah, but they didn't want to. They only wanted So, look, let me be clear. You could do ads and shows In fact, that's what they do They do tons of ads on NBC, And then they get interviewed by those. By the way, that's also why cable news because one of their top clients So that's why they're always like, oh, the Oh my God, the donor money They're honorable people, right? Because they don't want to offend So that's a different issue and one we talk about all the time. So if Roland says that it went to ads, Okay. You know, I trust them on that. And to me that's a little bit Okay. But first Al Sharpton, interviews you on his media. Is that media that what he does? And then he gives you the biggest softball after you were bribed? I mean, after you were given $250,000 No, half. A million, $250,000 Oh, yeah. Okay, so, look, Al Sharpton's been doing that he's inside the Democratic Party. There's just this enormous Okay. So you can't say that about Al Sharpton. He's been asking corporations For money, money, And then he comes out and goes. Now they are good people Now that they have given me money, by the way, you should look into that. Okay. So then you go to Oprah. We broke down that interview It was a celebrity fest And look, Oprah did the best she could. Kamala's answers were terrible. She would give her, like, a big intro. She was. Helping her answer the questions Before and after. She's coaching the bejesus out of Kamala Do I think Oprah took money? She's so rich. Like, I don't think And I believe Oprah Oprah doesn't do a daily talk show in wanting to pay a crew and get all No, no. But that's why I said Look, I can get you a crew to do that. Skip 10%, 5%, 2% of the money, right? I mean, they wanted I watched it. If you see it, there's, like hundreds And giant. I mean, it was. And none of it felt like the working man. None of it felt like you were going rights in an organic way. ET cetera. - That's a. I didn't think about like the way that they came across to. Or came across terrible and Meryl and every other celebrity. Oh, all the rich, elite celebrities I'm like, make it stop, make it stop. I mean, I didn't know that she Okay, so guys, the reason why she whether it's ads to money to nonprofits, The reason why she's paying is because she couldn't do earned media. Earned media is you come on a show. It could be any show. Come on, the Young Turks, That's it. Period. That's actually period, right? So I think part of the reason why they we're about to give you a half $1 million. So you know what kind of questions to ask I think it's kind of hilarious of redistributing wealth to some extent Right? Because, look, Kamala Harris but a smaller way, smaller percentage She had a lot of small dollar donors. And so, like the idea on these rich celebrities is hilarious. Like Lady Gaga in Philadelphia. Jon Bon Jovi in Detroit, James Taylor in North Carolina. The singers themselves were not paid a fee said, but their support staff was. The overall bill for the election eve and is said to have top $10 million. The cost overruns were partly because the at a park in Pittsburgh, the site could not be properly secured. They had to rush to take it down Now there are other major costs, officials who spoke to The Times. That includes $111 million seeking donations at least $100 million $70 million on mailers, the merchandise that people were ordering. And for all I can, I'm just going to jump And I don't think any of that is bad. You got to spend money on some ads have positive ROI on it, that's fine. Mailers are how you try to convince some on the tactics, but that spend is is huge, It's fairly normal. Categories of spending. $111 million Because what that what that doesn't in 150 or $200 million in donations. Sure. I'd like to just reiterate for donations were so low production, Because it seems like a normal person. Like he's standing in front of a window. There's a bright window behind him. He's dark and he's like, we're trying You know, if you can't do it, don't do it. But if you've got a buck or two, as more authentic. And I'm gonna venture to say to put out those ads to ask for money. No. Of course. And the whole glossy thing is actually deeply counterproductive. I'm just being fair about the type Okay. And for all the focus spent a significant sum about $50 million I have no problem with that. It's very difficult. They don't want you So canvassers are American heroes So I have no problem with that. Yeah. Except again, now we go to. Yes, definitely. Okay. I would have prefer. I would have loved it if they had Right. And I've canvased a lot and and I, after There's no question about that. There's a part of it Of course. Of course you do. Of course I do. You meet nonpolitical people. You love to gab. You love to talk. That's it's almost like Okay. And what they told us is, don't worry. We got this great ground, to help us, to carry us to victory. Did it? My guess is that a ton Not on the canvassers themselves, And it's proof's in the pudding. It didn't work. So again, not outrageous because But everything they did, very inefficient and very ineffective. So they wasted your money But one more thing Look, guys, We're in this business I mean, my God, if they said every time paid $2.5 million to construct a set. We'd be swimming in it. We'd be the richest show That's so outrageous. And to them, They're spending your money. So they're like, who cares? But wait a minute. When Trump goes on Rogan, Do you know how much that's worth? But instead of doing that for free, on setting up a rally. I've done rallies. I love rallies because I get to meet you but they're very inefficient. They're a decent amount of money And anyone that is involved So you spend 10 million on one rally into local news, because all you did It certainly didn't make national news. And oh my God, I got Queen Latifah Who cares? Who cares? Right? So these are the elites And so they spend like drunk sailors. And remember guys, at every turn someone The more they spend, So that's part of the reason And finally, to my knowledge, tens of millions of dollars everywhere in progressive media. To my knowledge, I don't know if the Right? It's possible. But but progressive media, populist media people who were really upset about Gaza. People who are upset about them not as we thought they could have delivered. And you chose not to go over to go and that could have She was too busy going after Nevertrump That's what she was doing. She was gallivanting around town was to appeal to never-trump Republicans, Look, going after the progressives It would have gone against So congratulations go ahead and try to appeal to the five for whatever reason, hold way more weight than progressive voters do. Or, you know, working class voters That's that's the real issue. But but okay, even if you believed in the missing Republicans. They're like Sasquatch. Oh, I hear there's three of them Right? But you believe in that strategy. But wouldn't you also try to get that are undecided in this election? Like, it's so indefensible to not try. The reason they didn't try is, well, if we we go on there and they ask us tough We don't want that. We we want compliance. And we're not sure. Especially left wing populist shows So if they're not going to give us propaganda, they're going to get no money Has it has it shown us or maybe has it Kamala Harris all deciding that their base and and should be totally ignored and Sasquatch Republicans in the suburbs. And and they went, by the way, Biden got 6%. Kamala Harris got 5%. It Final thing I'll say is I'm so proud they So you know why they didn't come to us? Knew us. They knew that there was no way Right. So. And yeah, they hate us. What do you mean they wouldn't get a yes? No, no, no. The way that this works is first they send There's no like there's no coordinating or anything like that. And by the way, super unethical to take - No, it's okay. - Took the money, not Al Sharpton, not. He says it's for ads. And did you disclose that the interview That gets complicated she pours in and so does Trump. As to my knowledge, hundreds of millions into CNN and MSNBC. And they also do interviews. Right. So as I view it in a different category, hey, listen, that's a problem, right? As we keep saying, the fact that top advertisers as politicians, as I said money to these outlets and then saying, we, we want you to do an interview with us they know the wink wink is not going And so look, if you're looking for a real with a real audience, right? But if you want fluff propaganda, who will take you up on it. Just don't expect to win an election to win an election. Having people who are already on your side That's a terrible, ineffective strategy,