Recently, I've been browsing the web for series called &quot;Let the peas fly&quot;, which video. But whilst researching, I accidentally with a shotgun. As any curious person would video covered a knockoff Plants versus today on the Google Play Store, and once ...yeah, we're making a video on this &quot;Wan Dou She Shou &quot; or otherwise known as peashooter in only over a month ago at the time of recording even know. The game was created by &quot;Domineering received roughly 100 downloads, which seems to apparently, the game genre is casual which is, immediately throws you into the world map with fixed it. then this RODENT begins talking to me &quot;peashooter&quot; the game's title has been telling understand that this green snotball lives here. go and beat up this zombie holding a basketball, plants fills the bottom row of the screen with Mexican pistachio&quot;. This Grass tile begins to in doing so, he then tells us to do it again on have Mr. Grass Tile but I'm pretty sure that's I followed his instruction and- who are you. guys is that this isn't your typical &quot;plant I mean- I mean it kind of is but- In this game having more than one of the same plants to their next form, yes, next form, into a lot more than just snot shooter 2.0. a &quot;Last Stand&quot; form of gameplay from PvZ having to carefully choose what to plant well as only having to defend one lane, yeah, for some reason. So I placed the Mexican Good god, what happened to you imp. The level and I received three stars! Wait a minute, Pea shooter. The green dude then so I swiftly accepted his offer and whilst got a patch of mud. Before heading to the next Oh my god, what happened to you all. It seems melonpult. Chomper looks a bit too happy to put away in an asylum. And potato mine looks like I realized I had two members of the my Mexican pistachio. He looks like a chicken realized I placed my Spikeweed way at the Oh my goodness, chicken nugget man, I am so I am very sorry for insulting you earlier. Holy peashooter, look at him I was rewarded with a shotgun. Peashooter equipment...I think I'd call it more than oh Dave, what happened to Crazy Dave is referred to as &quot;Bob&quot; and can he says nothing, just ominously staring in two another mega evolved plant and it appears I decline his offer in helping me, which I oh my goodness. I don't think that I gave in and accepted his help, all for the cost you. The level became a lot easier and we beat tank top and a hoola skirt. Moving on to level that- that's literally- that's a rocket launcher dude. Realizing I now transforming into a Roomba with a I was ready to start the level until bottom left with the shotgun. So Bob in this game lets you shoot every so often plants weren't enough of a defense for him? As pretty good, all until this Jelly Bean riding apparently a boss fight against zomboss with him did in the original game. But this one is cooler pretty easily considering Bob had an actual gun told me to go gamble again. You're really not very obviously &quot;Vasebreaker&quot; inspired chest, we the amount of damage his shotgun does. I then Legendary Burning Tree Stump! I'm in Flow State Legendary Watermelon Hand! I moved on to level six with my new cast of bootleg With my two melons I somehow received, I went ahead and evolved &quot;legendary That's literally just melon pult. I went ahead and pretty unstoppable, all thanks to Bob with his 7 offered me this corn shuttle station. The whole the team, but then I was told to watch an ad a blazing tornado set The Lakers back all the Lads. Entering level eight, I noticed something placing a plant on the lawn, a few other plants Originally I just passed this off as a bug and whatnot. But I decided to drag the Mexican Holy [ __ ] you can combine them. Wait a minute, hold on, you're telling me I could plants together? Oh my God, this game actually I began to drag every plant on my screen to I could think of. Which is when I dragged I just created Cactus. I then dragged another Dude that's literally Endurion from PVZ2. plants that I forgot I still have to beat everything with this unstoppable lineup along Okay, this is just getting ridiculous as I thought I could probably make peashooter and combine it with Torchwood I'll get- Oh, yeah, I guess that makes sense. I don't- I don't know what I thought would happen. whatever his name was) with snow-pea and making another Endurion, I realized I could Oh no, please turn back. Noticing fire-pea could That's just a guy. That- That's not even a peashooter anymore. But ahead and beat the level pretty easily, - We are back at the level select, with entering the level, everything so without much thought I created bomberman once guy is called Bazzi...personally I then made the shiny Roomba and also dragged made electric pea, wow he looks so cool! it I then threw the scraps in front of of defence against the upcoming horde, and I ...WHY DID YOU DO THAT- okay so apparently in this game, that it just kills everything in what is this self-sabotage, or you not friends? are you secretly working for zomboss after my whining over whether the the jellybean returned in a whatya gonna do now electric you versus your own boss, how are you and with that, we finally beat world 1! maybe the nighttime levels in the original world, ...it's the same thing, so...unsurprisingly, level in the game...ithink- I haven't despite the lazy design, I pushed forward, I stayed far away from electric pea before but that didn't stop me from itself making..that's a funny shaped plant- I then merged it again with a spikeweed and I then made the iconic chicken nugget man, in this'll probably make an explodonut from orr an elden ring boss yea that makes sense- I made a couple more fusions and began the level, where I met these sun pharaoh this really confused me since these making it harder for you to afford but in this format of the game...my plants whats even more weird is that, where did you even come from. ancient like what was the point of making dis guy, if da anyway, this uhh...windmill, had the ability to kinda doesn't make sense because youre supposed to all of a sudden, HOLY MOLY, is this brother has been hitting the weights-! despite his very masculine appearance, the garguantuars weren't necessarily these little shits are the worst zombies in the small pieces of bluetack are somehow the most a garguantuar throws his imp forcing a 1 oh yea ignore the melon man he just but this should be an easy enough match, just you are the worst plant in the game good luck with them- new strat, electro pea combine him with stick him at the front, place the remainder plants behind and are you kidding me. electric pole, melon man, nut 1 and 2 peashooter tag team with torchwood...lets go ww- why are you not doing anything the peas on fire why ARE YOU JUST SITTING THERE- half of the team gets wiped out, peashooter...this is gonna go well, oh so the imp riding a literal little guy by himself?? yep literally bulletproof- we beat the level, and for clicked on this button called &quot;talentPS&quot; which suddenly told me i won the level..again? so i collected my rewards it turns out i found myself in an infinite so i began to receive unlimited amounts of before entering level 2 i went to go visit dave and...what are you planning to but now that i had a whole im able to show you guys having 3 of the same item allows you to combine merging for the weapons guys settle down) but so now with my cool upgraded shotgun, it still does less damage than the moving on to level 2, i figured with spikeweed could be a useful character. watermelon hand could combine with what the fu- i dont even know what to call so this &quot;plant&quot; launches basketballs at zombies yea we lost the game- but in times like this when your feeling down, theres always one way to pick me well you heard it here first folks, if you play this game you will after suffering through so heading back into level could combine now with ice beans on the team. combining all 3 ice peas, we get, oh...hello yea so i decided to throw her combining ice beans with another ice yea lets just throw him away too wintermelon combined with ice so with my new beautiful lineup we began the level and we was all until these goddamn imps started the zombies powered through my whole defence, watch an ad to activate the tornado- YIPEEEE i realised that if i wanted to keep going, i was gonna need a stronger team...can you HOHHHHHH- JEANS- and..oh my goodness an iced out Cuban link chain? so yea, i decided instead of unlocking bob a lil bit since i keep forgetting hes i gave him all of his new clothes and i thought id give this blue fairy oh hey bob..um what are you ok NOT A PHONE CASE- i guess with this battery like-weapon, me doesn't to make a difference so after a couple tornadoes i managed to barely so after going insane p[laying Pea Shooter for is there a problem with how even with this insane lineup these imps so after a couple of tornadoes i was these guys are quite tanky though so i may be in troubl- um...game i dont think but hey im not complaining, i think ive watched - so anyway, we are stuck at level but before we jump into the next level, yea I realised ive never showed you never been too impressive to mention but if you weren't already aware, in the the better quality puzzle pieces which is seemingly very similar to would have to buy zombie pinata's so claiming my rewards I but the next puzzle piece gave me combinations we haven't previously had access so finally entering the level, I now with this in mind, i didn't hold back, i created new combination, combining lobotomy mine with mine- IT'S SO CUTE, but we're not done because my pikachu mine. So dragging the it over, we but we weren't finished yet as i created my however once again i noticed a potential new mine we've unlocked, so dragging it over to i mean if i had to guess, it looks like you but to top it off i created the spiky wind and i suppose this nut too, i but LOOK at this lineup, i mean if THIS doesn't the first wave of zombies didn't hold back, releasing 2 gargantuars straight away- of those stupid &quot;mega-mods&quot; with level but surprisingly, our defence the bluetack boys gracefully flew over but luckily we have- (ice fairy) NOPE too late- i mean at least our front defence is holding up- well i mean we should still be fine, we've got our backup hand-grenade to wait WHERE DID THE ICE LADY GO- (exhale defeat) retrying the level, i figured we just needed so after a quick game of musical melon defending the back, yellow strong CREEPY FACE- second in order ice fairy, bomberman, cactus, windmill, I dont think anyone has said that sentence before- but anyway i pressed start and we zombies were dying, imps were flying and.. landing on my cactus, EXCUSE ME?? what happened to you getting thrown 50 yards garguantuar? why are you suddenly too weak to no-ones surprise, cactus dies but for someone but that didn't even matter because the other zombies and we beat the HEY I'm not complaining, they returning back to the level select, i noticed this on it we were told we've collected enough as in this game the legendary characters likewise in garden warfare 2 so claiming my reward, we were only one piece to go...and i dont want to so moving onto level 6, i thought to myself, if it aint broke dont fix it...i also because i decided to put mr strongman &quot;nice face&quot; closer to the front in hopes of so we began the level and watched and i waited for the gargantuars to react to their children being destroyed and (won the level) what? oh...i guess they weren't regardless of my dreams being crushed, we were actually flying through these in level 7 we once again used the same strat and we even got to see the ...that was underwhelming- but once again we reached the end of strong guy is injured, ah i mean im sure JESUS IS HE THROWING UP?- WHY IS IT ...ahem- in level 8, i decided to despite the yellow man's performance and who would've guessed, well lets see you get by my WHY did you throw him so much further this time? was that just a warmup for you Mr. green giant- despite duping me with their imps, the bomberman actually defended himself this and just like that we went on from the boss fight of this world...even so once again, i created the unstoppable we were recently going up against which made start to think what zomboss maybe on like a parade balloon or stage however in the midst of my daydreaming i but there it was...level 2-10, bossfight time... so in i went, gathered the troops just like it appears i have an extra and cactus can combine with HOLY cactus thats a lot of...um..HOLES- but with the team NOW ready, i began the level... the swarm started off pretty heavy, windmill was wiped out, off went yellow face started to get ganged up on, and it was only until now I realised- the zombies are literally piecing him up and he's so to no one's surprise, he once all of my troops began to get eaten alive, bomberman was destroyed, cactus devoured, and all of a sudden in the arrived...in his MARIO KART MACHINE AGAIN?? okay ignoring you guys, i dont even care if you SAME vehicle as before, i literally destroyed that &quot;theres always a next time&quot;, and just rocked oh look, i died- are you happy are stronger than YOU with your crappy Egypt car- retrying the level, i realised this team was so i called upon a new team to noticing i was given access to 2 Torchwood's in Ultimate Torchwood, which apparently doubles which led me to making mega-evolved following this up with some familiar faces, nugget, i added one more member to the so i began the level where our evolved potato but this time round, we were destroying the and it was time for round 2 against the mega evolved potato mine revived itself the rest of the team continued he went down and www...oh hold on there we go- AND we finally beat world 2... with world 3 being next to take on... - Moving aside my shameless plug, level 1 of the world of the 3 is next...not before somehow we've actually managed to complete given us the final prize of...melon... 8 melons to be exact- but at least we can now upgrade melon under-powered...that way i wont be under-power- entering the first level, wait..WOAH they it seems we are now in the nighttime levels i wanted to switch up my strategy defence...and by that i mean a couple of you mentioned that despite when i last used him he but by translating this text, gets stronger for every plant he kills...why?? this doesn't make his case any better, this makes regardless i built a setup around frog-gun, including this greasy mcdonalds check me out, this guy kills people and dies but then respawns in an hour or so, and again, he'll keep on this meta actually works really well, whilst electro pea slowly powers up after but this strategy managed to get us all in level 2, i tried the same thing but then the so i instead went for the ultimate pea, ultimate When did you get here, WHY are you here? machine- has this rocket gun thing- but seemingly this seems broken- :D also i can't remember when and if you decide to play this game, make it literally cuts itself off- but the strategy worked and i think you can tell as i thought 2 windmills are better than one but that wasn't enough for those GODDAMN IMPS- despite having a whole wind farm, the zombies still came too close so i had (WEIRD AI GIRLFRIEND MAN AD) WHAT IS HAPPENING- but after activating the super tornado, they told me i won the level early anyway- However, at this point in the game, I was there left to do? i feel underpowered in my ass and destroy my whole lineup unless know what ANYTHING does without google &quot;increases the chances of salmon glasses so in my times of troubles i once again i...somehow missed out on an update 3 WEEKS erm should we tell him that there's an English painstakingly translating every WORD in this all for the developer to make an English version ONE that encouraged DOMINEERING GAME to make game has over 1000 more downloads since I first but i installed the update, and immediately this...feels wrong to be honest- I now know with translating everything myself, finally attack increase...? ...wait...wait a minute no does this SERIOUSLY i suddenly do more damage against all ADS i watched, could've been avoided section of the game i ignored because (in chair backwards) after nearly losing my mind after realising i randomly clicked on the plant section and- Spray peas? haha what? wait hold on, that's its REAL NAME, we're NUT STRONG?? THORN THORN SERIOUSLY? SHARP TOOTH FLOWER, SIR THAT IS NO FLOWER- anyway, entering level 4, my whole world what abilities it had, yea i know, these guys feels wrong calling him that- spray peas thorn thorn causes zombies to take 100% damage and watermelon cannon...does ] uhm i mean, dragon scroll fan...? i read what chaos! dragon scroll fan is...unable to attack, does ZERO DAMAGE? well i mean he must be able it emits a tornado to repelcolor equals hashtag i then created...uh, jianxing what he does but don't worry i i then created FAT POTATOES...haha poor guy- watermelon Katyusha, ice and this is probably my favourite one- nut STRONG&quot;, and then finally becomes and everything is Actually dying...oh but yea here we go here's what stops me- you wait and the other gargantuars did i seriously just have to figure pea shooter like a MILLION times easier? (win) get rewards...I'm trying MAN- heading back to the world map, i decided why does bob get his weapons from the moving on to level 5, i came or i guess...compose...yea that sucks- combining high explosive potatoes with itself as this plant features ZERO snakes, and i then made more things, i don't want in English but i have to at least so the level began Im not sure if we have a new zombie, being...invisible zombie- this happened more than once whilst i is an actual enemy, which in i still think it's lazy- I retried the level, making use of...fire your guys' favourite combination; *cough* i also brought along giant stone strong honestly ever since i converted the a lot easier to understand...who woulda thunk- checking in with the summer gala, stars to receive 2 rare character so heading over to the plant tab i upgraded however he apparently still in level 6 we revisited an treasure- he doesn't even look like a pirate- ...well i want two anyway- at this point i was just experimenting with all before, so as we took down more invisible zombies, i didn't realise it was bring your kid to work this is the most disturbing zombie in the so these zombie head-humpers, act as a sequel they basically jump off their dad after job of being squished under electro-mouse's pecs- another thing i noticed in this zombies are somehow dodging my attacks??? just weaving my attacks?- why can they do that?- despite my complaining, we got all dropping 3 explosion potatoes on the front him wipe out, everything...like literally we aren't even dealing with garguantuars anymore, they walk into the scene the same thing went for level 8, level 9, and before we enter the level though, i noticed i the summer gala, will we actually be able to bring time...for the bossfight again- so we went on and just like the last with this insanely overpowered loadout, but before making it to the end, i almost kart again are you kidding me? regardless this and just like that we were finished with - despite that we have ONE WORLD LEFT! we are about but as promised we are going all out on this i have a duty to serve which the only method in the game to my hard earned gems on vases and pray so instead we have to watch ads...but i a 1 in SOMETHING chance of getting the right wait- what do you mean advertisement successfully so apparently this KING button to receive one legendary plant, so after watching TWO MORE GOD AWFUL ADVERTS (YOU ARE DEAD) what is this advertising- i finally unlocked- cho-NOPE... i got melon again- and the option to get another golden plant has but i suppose i can now go for mr corn guy and...- um, excuse me miss, i think this is not corn man- so i repeated this process and weirdly after opening one of these wait what, so...WHY DO YOU EXIST? and this wasn't just a one off, because and in the one after that, i also got torchwood 3 legendaries in a row, and so this button literally has no reason to exist it felt like the game actually knew i was trying EVERYTHING other than the exact 2 plants i needed, unlocked corn kernel fragments...it doesn't feel and after attempting the king crate i finally unlocked the eggplant in the regular however after giving pea shooter probably PS300 we've finally unlocked the whole roster of plants melon and fire wood BOTH to level 5, that's how so with everyone unlocked, i entered and without giving it any thought, with fire tree and created &quot;explosive of corn right? i dont see no rice on this PEA SHOOTER pls hire me to name your plants- but anyway i noticed that melon could combine dude WHAT IS THIS PLANT- no seriously, i can't even read what it does, if this thing isn't able to kill EVERYTHING like cob cannon in pvz 1, i will i thought it would be funny to make 3 noticed popstar could also combine with another shot rice blast-and once again pea shooter, but anyway it appears his power is out &quot;the target&quot;...alright john wick settle down- i wasn't done yet though as i decided to and if THIS is it's second form, i EW WHAT IS THAT THING- WHY so licky lee over here, has the ability this fatass corn is blocking half the but i followed these 3 up with some familiar in which we began the level, with garguantuars per usual, nut luckily for me i have these 2 dudes um hello? do you guys want to do anything no okay cool- but as the horde drew closer it was time for HERE we go chomper let em loose, let's despite chomper being literally useless- lil which i doubt because there's i'll still GET REWARDS tho, don't mind me- look at YOU Bob with your fancy shoes(GUCCI ON) moving on to level 2, i seemed to huge ass corn thing, so instead i combine resulting in hand cranked cannon, and apparently i went ahead and also made by combining chomper with spikeweed we its okay though because we can combine to make...a bigger pile of dirt what is this dude- i then combined ice pea with chomper making...ice but then combining this with the. look how jolly and Christmas he is- we brought back the knockback ...emit? who's emit- are you clicking on emit tells me there's which is funny to hear from a talking cannon whilst i was worrying about emit this giant snake worm emerged but then he went back to bed what eventually the plants came and by that i mean 3 imps so in an attempt to quickly activate could which only made panic and start to twerk- eventually he fired his cannon which but then told me he was COOLING down, you emit then missed 2 more times, how useful you are- but then finally after letting he stunned the whole crowd, letting the despite only working half the time, and also us the level and we....got stuck in another reopening the game i decided to invest where it just gives me free damage upgrades what,(clap attitude) a fun, system! we moved on to level 3, and i dont know what caused the corn man to start sliding up and down but after getting bored i remade lil &quot;The King Of Snow&quot; to go along with the note ice pea with ANOTHER chomper instead, surely has to make yeti chomper from nevermind, they gave the icecube, maybe it was something i was doing the earthworm another chance in combat, ice lady do this weird magical fairy the zombies as they stood there just earthworm continued to just jumpscare the you might just scare them and one thing that confuses the zombies decide to remind me every SECOND that seriously how do i make them however with this stalling setup we we managed to pull through, oh how I've missed you water gun that is so swapping out my hot sauce we can damage, whatever i'll still take it- in level 4 i got curious and which just made him into a nasa space station- which reminded me of another tall plant we used however now with our new plants we &quot;master immortal&quot;, now this guy looks pretty cool- and after messing around with some other with chomper, making fire dragon teeth, and i warfare, like the video if you think prehistoric anyway adding another chomper to this red...thing- creates five fire dragon teeth- and after adding some reinforcements i actually ive literally never run out of sun until I KNOW that this team is strong yea sorry i couldn't resist- but despite my awesome amazing team, the zombies good thing i have these tips to ARRANGE TROOPS AND FNJDSUHFSDIFJFIOOOH- so taking that advice into consideration, and also remade viking nut, or in and we fired through the level like it was nothing the same went for level 5, but instead with fireboy and watergirl...and funny enough the head humping imps level 6 saw the return of the elden ring boss, i dont know what i did differently but it which is a sentence i thought id never say- look at this hell's nut blast wiping but we ended the level with hell's and was rewarded with the America starter pack- after getting a bit impatient i wanted electro pea farm these potato mines and as predicted we wiped the obliterating everthing that dares rewarding us with some fire kicks!- which then caused another infinite ok hear me out, cannon...being with the snowman in charge of emit, it over dave just to make sure he's get them with your sup[er-soaker, another thing, whilst electro pea was charging and it actually landed on the but anyway moving on to level 9 i- i couldn't help myself, it's a Christmas miracle!- i dont know what i was thinking when it appeared to be working with all of the but not long after i realised i put a literal which the zombies seemingly took so i put together a different team... yea i didn't last 10 seconds- so after a lot of experimenting, and MANY hey if it aint fixed dont broke it- but we obviously beat the level the zombies never stood a chance just fate of being massacred...but we got and its all come down to this...level 4-10, while to get to this point and to be honest so with that being said, let's take lol look at my loadout- hear me out guys, what better way of this game than using literally the so the first few waves went as you expected by the end of the level, zomboss appeared and surely he just missed im sure wait he isn't dying, how much is this a troll, can zomboos just not die? he's spawning more enemies this is oh, i guess i overreacted a bit- BUT with zomboss defeated we have we did it guys! it's finally done i cant thank you guys enough for all the however, quickly before we end- TOP 3 PEA SHOOTER PLANT TIERLIST MOMENT- number 3- gatling gun number 2- sunflower she aint even and number 1- electromagnetic bodybuilding mouse- so all that's left to say is thank you and stay tuned for whats coming next because i oh wait, we've got enough gems for one more plant! of course