DR. JAMES GRIME: So another actually the most important It's called the prime So let me write it out. I think it deserves Really important result It's so important that you You can refer to it by its Just call it PNT. People know what PNT is. It's the prime number theorem. It's that important. And the prime number theorem is there, less than a number n. So how many primes are there Something like that. And so the formula says primes less than n-- well, the symbol for Now, don't be confused. This pi is not 3.14. It's nothing to do with pi. We've reused the symbol So it's P for prime. So the number of primes And this is approximately n A couple of things to say, familiar with that Some of you will. But for the ones who aren't quickly show you. It's just a function. You could call it-- Any number-- you Any number, like n, can be power x. e is another constant. It's 2 point-- I never remember what it is. 718, something, something, So any number can be written It's 2.718 to the power And the log of n is this bit. It's x. It's the power. So that's what a log is. If I plot log of x, it This is actually growing, really, really slowly. I think the log of So you put in a big number, and very small number out. It's always getting bigger. It's actually tending One more thing to say-- this twiddle is a new Tilde-- or twiddles, as I like it's a new symbol. What it means is if you divide so I'm going to divide If you divide those two things, n gets bigger. That's what it means. It's slightly technical. You can say approximately you're happy with that. But that has a proper meaning. So what it's told us how many, on average-- it gives an approximation, at can expect less than 1 billion, 10 billion, But we can then get some That means that the proportion we divide by n, the proportion over log n. So if we're talking 1 billion, 1 billion was 21. So the proportion of It's like 5%. 5% of numbers less than You can call it a probability If I picked a number at random, that it's going to be It's 5%. What does it mean? It does mean that the prime more spaced out, as the So this proportion is The gaps-- we can write the The average gap between primes So if n was 1 billion again-- it turns out the average gap Some have bigger gaps. Some have smaller gaps. Some are twin primes. But the average gap is 21. BRADY HARAN: Let me give give me all the stats. I'll give you a number. Give me the state of the nation billion numbers. DR. JAMES GRIME: 5 5 and 1/2 billion is this. So 1 billion has nine 0's. So this is 5 and 1/2 billion. We're going to take the log What have we got? 22. BRADY HARAN: 22.4. DR. JAMES GRIME: 22.4. BRADY HARAN: So what DR. JAMES GRIME: So I know that less than 5 and 1/2 Again, it's just like-- well, let's see. Is it 4%? Let's see if we can do it. Yeah, so about 4% of numbers 1/2 billion are prime. The average gap is about So that's a lot of And then one more thing, then. One more thing we can our prime number formula. The n-th prime twiddles, n lots of log n. So you might see where If the average gap is log n, and prime, you can multiply by n. You add the gaps all together. The n-th prime is approximately Which means 5 and 1/2 billion, da-da-da-da-da prime is-- it actually gets better bigger the number is. So it helps you find-- but it is an approximation, the prime number formula One more thing I wanted this average gap we've and I said it was an average. So sometimes you get Sometimes you get You make an average of The gaps do have You can't go as big There's actually a little-- it's called Bertrand's And it says if you pick any n-- he said that there will be and smaller than 2n. So you can't have a gap There's a little The rhyme is, &quot;Chebyshev said there's always a prime between n a prime instead-- let's take it as the then the next prime you're sandwiched between prime Let's pick a prime. Prime's the nice version Well, pick a prime. BRADY HARAN: 11? DR. JAMES GRIME: 11's fine. Right, so let's have 11. All it's telling you is that prime between 11 and So your gaps can't For primes over 100, you That can actually shrink So that gives you quite So that just means that the very long gaps between them. So they're quite regular. Primes are always turning up. They're fairly regular. And there's infinitely But they're like weeds. They're always popping up. You can't get rid of them. There's another prime. You don't go for too long prime popping up. BRADY HARAN: Surely when we Graham's numbers of the become a bit more sparse. DR. JAMES GRIME: They But proportionally, compared you're using, the proportion is In absolute terms, they're But as a proportion to these about, they're close. This prime number formula is the prime number formula. There's more sophisticated They look the same, but they've And so you can see that the around 0-ish.