Yes I hit it! I hit the final note. It's also the name of today's show. Welcome to Michael's Math Magic. I wanna show you a tool today that's very These are regular old bicycle playing cards We here at Vsauce designed these to do something They come in Curiosity Box 12 which many of it's way to you. When you open the cards up you'll find that backs. Take a look. It's got Inc on there with some nautical Some ship wheels some whales and pirate booty But I've been playing with these cards for They're all shuffled up. I'll shuffle them a few more ties to really of the cards are. And I'm being really honest at this moment. It doesn't matter what order the cards are And then the magic will happen. Alright. Now often a magician will be able to guess Right? A magician like myself. Not today. No no no. We're gonna go even further. Today the person guessing a card chosen from Where are they? Well I will show you. We have taken Jack who works here at Vsauce I'm gonna use my phone camera to show you Follow me. We gotta leave the studio. Okay. There's Hannah. And let me just carefully walk through the Okay now where is Jack. Is he there? No. Where is he? Maybe he's in the refrigerator. Oh no of course he wouldn't be that would Sometimes he's up in the loft or he's Not today though. Nope. Today we have locked him away, not in Testing ready? Yep. Alright let's do this. Okay. So let me make my way back. I want to do this all in real time. No edits. Real magic. Okay going back into the studio. Hannah, I'm back. And it's time for us to use these special Ready? Here we go. I'll give them one more shuffle and then Now Jack has his phone with him and I'm it will be through texts that the magic occurs. Here we go. Let's pick this card right here. I have no idea what this card is and certainly as far away as he can be in this office does to ask Jack to guess what this card is. Okay. So here we go. Ready? It's time to guess the card Jack. Okay. Let's see what happens! Send. This is what happens when you try to do a There can be some waiting but this is all You can feel the psychic energy between Jack a little bit. Alright Jack can you do it? I don't know the card. How could he know the card? Locked away in a bathroom. Well perhaps it's not a bathroom. Perhaps it's a throne of magic. King of hearts! Is this the king of hearts? The king of hearts! What?! Excuse me?! Let's try this again. Let's try this again. I have no idea which card is which. I'm gonna pick this one. Okay. I don't know what it is. Jack certainly doesn't know what it is but Okay. Hello, okay Jack. Can you guess the card? I sent it. I can feel that electricity. Now Jack isn't the only one who can do this these are real texts. I'm not using some kind of special app. There are no additional cameras in this room Jack is not listening to us. He doesn't have any kind of elaborate system table from inside the bathroom. He really is in there with nothing but his And with those tools alone Jack will think be able to miraculously be right. Nine of spades. Is this the nine of spades? There it is! The nine of spades. How the heck is this trick working? Well it's time for me to let you in on a Jack knows what card has been chosen because Jack which card was chosen through code. The special thing about Inq's playing card It is a marked deck. Which means that by looking at the back of If you look at these three cards they all Only a trained eye, only someone who knows really determine the secret code on the back. What I wanna do is...is there a pencil around Or any kind of sharp pointing object? Even, actually Hannah, give me your friend. Thank you very much. Okay take a look at the back of this card. We've got ships wheels. Look at the ship wheel in the upper left hand It doesn't matter which way the card is left hand corner no matter how you rotate You'll notice that there's a ships wheels Those 12 handles can be read like a clock. Who you look at them you look to see if a In this case on this particular card no handle It's that easy. But what's the suit? Well if you look inside the wheel there's right than it is anywhere else. By following typical CHaSeD order which I bit ago, you can from 12:00 around moving at where the thicker line is. If it's thicker at the top you have a card If it's thicker on the right it's a heart. Thicker on the bottom it's a spade. Thickest on the left it is a diamond. This ships wheel is thickest on the right heart. This is a heart. A king of hearts. And it is in fact a king of hearts. Let's look at this card. Now this card is missing a handle right there And the line on the ships wheel is thickest A 2 of spades. Boom. Let's do that one more time. Right here. Perfect. Okay. So looking at this ships wheel we see that So this is a 10 and the line is thickest up So it's a club. A 10 of clubs. Piece of cake right? Unless you know what to look for though, this Of course when you do a trick with these cards Uhh hey uhh uhh what's uhh what's this Oh. Uhh well I can tell you. It's the 4 of diamonds. Hehehe. No because it's too obvious. People will know that there's probably something So I have today performed for you what I call And I use a code to convey what I know about the back since it's a marked deck through The identity of the card is contained in the The punctuation at the end of my text tells If I put no punctuation at the end that tells If I just put a period at the end of the text A question mark at the end of the text says And finally of course an exclamation point So as you can see the punctuation sort of amount of emotion in it and that's how I diamond and the order of the punctuation. Jack actually has a cheat sheet with him hidden it. I have to memorize this. And it's not actually that hard. You practice a few times. You got it down and the effect is really phenomenal. Okay but Jack wasn't just able to tell us to tell us the value. And here's how I work that out. If the card is an Ace I begin the card with THat's right. The salutation, the greeting in the text is is. Here's what I mean. If I just begin the text with no hello or If however I begin the text with the word a 3, or a 4. If I begin the text with hey which is a little a 5, a 6, or a 7. If I begin the text with the word hello that 9, or a 10. And if I begin the text with the word ready, a Queen, or a King. Here what I think makes this easy to remember of number of letters the higher the card's But now you may be wondering, alright, fine that there's say an exclamation point at and that either it's a 5 6 or 7. How do you tell him which of these three it Aha! Well what we're doing is using a little Where I put Jack's name in the text or really it is. If right after the greeting I say a proper or my own, whatever, he knows that of the So if I said hey Jack he knows right away If however I put his name or the participant's card, Jack. Now he knows that it's the last card because If his name is anywhere else but the very then he knows that it's the middle number. Hey so, Jack, guess the card. That's a 6. That's how it works. It's that simple. Let's do a couple of examples. In fact let's see if he's still in the He should be or else he's fired. Like literally that's what his contract Let's just pick a card out of here and we'll You can be the magician along with me. Okay. So no one's looked at this card. I haven't. You haven't. Hannah hasn't. Jack hasn't. Let's take a look. So this card is missing a handle at 3:00 position. And the stroke in the inside of the wheel a club, a 3 of clubs. So for the 3 of clubs what should we text Well we know that the 3 puts us into this And the 3 is in the middle of the 2, 3, 4, we're ready Jack. And then finish it with something. So let me just start drafting this out so And here we go. Hi we're ready Jack. And then...it's a club so no punctuation Time to guess. Alright. So there's the text. The word hi tells us that it's either a The fact that his name, the proper name Jack or the end tells him that it's a 3 and the him that it's a club, 3 of clubs. I haven't even checked the card that's how I hope he's still checking his texts. He may have gotten back to work which is not Obviously you can come up with your own code. Use whatever works best for you and your assistant. The more times you do this trick in a row will be that they can catch on and go hey the word ready. Hmmm. But if you only do the trick once or twice for an audience. Three of clubs. He's texted back 3 of clubs and is it the The 3 of clubs! Piece of cake. Now these cards are amazing but this show It's called Michael's Math Magic so here just show you an awesome magic trick that New Zealand. Which is different than Australia but pretty the Australian Shuffle also known as the Down Down Under, Australia. Get it? Okay perfect. So a Down Under deal is when you instead of down, you deal down and then under, down under, and so on. Clearly when you deal cards this way, you're but when you do that technique you will eventually your hand. And which card will be left in your hand is The card that is left when you've done the down under, down under, down under, down under, down, the card that you have left will have and it's position will be equal to this This formula. You take the number of cards in the pack you're 2 that is not greater than that number. And you find the difference between those And then you double that difference. That will be the position in the pack from So for example how many cards have I pulled 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. 10. 10 cards. Okay perfect. So we take 10 and we say what's the nearest 8. What's the difference between 8 and 10. 2. And what is 2, doubled? 4. So the fourth card will be the card I'm The fourth card is the eight of spades. The eight of spades. Down under, down under, down under, down under, down under. Ace of spades. Every time. Beautiful binary sorting. I love it. I've got links below where you can learn Could you do it with a down, down under? Would you need to use ternary? I'll leave that as an exercise to you the And as always, thanks for watching.