- Let's take a walk down memory lane, okay, with this recipe. I remember this being on and not always just at Thanksgiving. I'm putting a couple of because the first thing I'm gonna do for our green bean casserole is I'm gonna saute a cup and I guess this is an eight, maybe a 12 ounce package of mushrooms. So, glad I moved to a bigger pan, Eddie. (stove clicking) (container thudding) Gonna saute these together. And I have, in this recipe, I have used fresh green beans, not canned, and we're not using canned What you think? (laughs) Can you believe it? Now I cook these green and I'm gonna need to And it calls for me to hold out a cup and a half of the chicken broth that Okay, so there we go. We got this going. I'm gonna go ahead and add those onions. So you can see that it's, we're kind of following but we're just doing it Is that what you'd say? So while our onions and I'm gonna take our Parmesan cheese, half a cup, and one cup of Panko. And I'm gonna mix those together. This is gonna make a nice topping. It's not gonna have those But you can certainly add those. - [Eddie] Mmhmm. - If you wanna split the deal with mama's recipe and this recipe. - [Eddie] That's often the favorite part of green been casserole. - I know it. I know it, those crispy onions. So, I'm gonna add about a tablespoon. Whoa. Had trouble with that distance, just having one eyeball. Alright, so I'm just gonna stir this up. We just gonna sit it do its thing. And that all, it's just as tossing it in some melted butter. Alright, now while that's cooking, I want to measure up. I cooked more than five so I'm gonna come on ahead and and make sure that, (banging) I don't use more than I know it calls. (banging) I'm gonna bring out the big bowl. Okay, that's set aside. And you're to cook these about 20 minutes. Well, I'm not one, I'm just not one for a crispy green bean. You know, I'm a southern So I cook it up for about 30 minutes. Alright, that's four cups. Okay, I'm not gonna be too far off, y'all. I think I just heard my cousin come up. Okay, Eddie. That's five cups. So I wasn't too far off, was I? - [Eddie] Wasn't a whole thing left. - Nah uh, not much left. And, we can put these on top We'll eat them. We will eat them. Hey, hey! I told y'all I thought that Get over here. - [Cousin] Hey, Paula. - And give me a hug. - [Cousin] Come on, I'll give you a hug. (laughs) - You look good and I like that shirt. - It's nice to be old, isn't it? - I'm telling you, you - Is this my dinner? - This is almost it. (laughs) So, I got to talking and I forgot to tell you who that was. That is my Aunt Peggy's oldest son, and he has come in from Thank you, Lord! Okay, and we got our show, and it's on the road, honey. (stove ticking) I've got my onions and and now I'm gonna use the pan that I boiled the green beans in. I'm gonna put one and a half cups of the chicken stock, and I'm gonna bring that to a boil. And then I'm gonna put No, I'm gonna put this, and our mushrooms in it first, and then I'm gonna make So it's gonna act like we've used a can of cream of mushroom Alright, our broth has come to a boil. And now I'm gonna make a slurry using two tablespoons of corn starch, just a little bit of water, you know, you don't need a whole bunch, just a little bit, just And we are gonna add our slurry into our boiling chicken broth. (liquid sloshing) (tapping) We got, oh you know, we got, here we go. (liquid splashing) By George, I think we're gonna have cream of mushroom soup, don't y'all? (laughs) (glass clinks) (liquid sloshing) (banging) (utensils clanking) (drawer shuts) (liquid sloshing) I'm gonna use my whisk I don't want it to gum. (whisk clanking) Okay, there we go. (banging) Now, I'm gonna add a if I can find it amongst my stuff. And here it is, we have house seasoning. I'm gonna add about a teaspoon (liquid sloshing) There we go. (banging) And now I'm gonna add our onions and our mushrooms to that. (liquid sloshing) Look, doesn't that look (laughs) a pot of cream of mushroom soup? Yes, it does. Tastes pretty good. May have to add a little bit more salt. Now I'm gonna add a half a cup of sour cream. (banging) So this is real easy. It's just different from on green been casserole. Eddie, did your mother use the standard, the one that was on, was or was it on the- - [Eddie] I think it was on the onion can. - On the onion can. I bet it was. (liquid sloshing) Look how pretty that does look. Alright, one finger taste. Now I'm gonna add, so that'll probably be two and that's got the all those flavors. (banging) So now I'm going to stir the green beans in all that goodness. (liquid sloshing) Looks delicious, Eddie. - [Eddie] Uh huh, it sure does. - And for people that, I don't wanna call anybody a food snob, but some people, like my children, you know, they like to use fresher, fresh ingredients and stay away from processed or canned foods. So, this will be right Alright, we'll get it all sprayed so it won't stick. And in it goes. Let me know if it's gonna work, Eddie. - [Eddie] Looks like it will. - I want everybody else to be able to see, not necessarily me. Oh yes! I think that you would Maybe you can start a new (utensils clattering) All of that goodness. (pan clattering) All of it. (banging) And now we're coming back to our Panko and our Parmesan cheese and we're just gonna on top of our green bean casserole. And all this does, y'all, you know, everything's been cooked in it, so not to worry. (glass clinking) Okay, 350 degrees, 20, 25 minutes, something like that. I can't wait for y'all to see it finished. Here, Eddie. - [Eddie] Looks good. - Bubbly, bubbly. We'll taste this before I call Aunt Peggy and George in to taste. You know, I'll make sure How bout it? (Eddie laughs) And here's my fork. And I want your honest Okay? Well, you hadn't- - [Eddie] You go- - You haven't forked up yours yet. - [Eddie] You go first. (laughs) I'm a leftie. (laughs) That was a cheater bite. - [Eddie] That's good. - Isn't it delicious? - [Eddie] Yeah, I like - Uh huh, it gets kind of crusty. Delicious. I can't wait for our (utensils clinking) Perfectly yummy. It's Eddie-approved (Eddie laughs) Love and best dishes, y'all. Hey, y'all, it's Paula Deen. Now, if you enjoyed this video, and click the subscribe button bell to be alerted Love and Best Dishes Y'all.