My name is Jimmy Tsui. I have a nickname as Bighead. I'm a former high-level member of the largest triad, Sun Yee On. I decided to leave my life because I got sick and tired of it, and I almost got killed in 1992. I got shot five times. Do I know the person who shot me? Yes, I know the person who shot me. But I don't know why he How many triads in Hong Kong? I can tell you there's a lot of triads. Sun Yee On, 14K, Shing Wo, Shui Fong. My situation is a bit special I'm from New York. And in New York, I already have When I joined the Tung On a couple of former members in Tung On, they are from Hong Kong. When they in Hong Kong, they already are triad. So after they come to the United States, they still have a connection Because some things happened, 1985. I remember. So, after I got out, the couple of members I mentioned before from &quot;Hey, Jimmy, you want to Maybe you can go outside because you were already I went back to Hong Kong with them. They took me to a restaurant, And then afterward, a guy come down, but he didn't look like He looked like a businessman. They never mentioned this So the leader asked me like, &quot;What you do in New York? What's your position in New York?&quot; And I tell him the whole thing. So he's saying that, because I already on my under level, all the kids who follow me, they will become a Sun Yee On too. For the ceremony, there's a We have to swear a lot and we had to drink blood wine. And then the first thing, I will speak in Cantonese because I don't know how to The rule for the triad, the main rule is you obey You obey your main boss. There's only one main so you must obey him. And never against each other, and never steal money from each other, and never lie to each other, and never take girl from each other. My boss give me, as I remember, two, two nightclubs to collect which they call protection money. The shareholders must be, for the nightclub is our member. In America, you can say that's extortion, but they'd be willing to give out money for the protection in America. But in Hong Kong, you must be a shareholder and then you have your own I tell you -- honestly, I tell you -- we are there every night, at least 20 days a month. We got used to it, just like going to work. Just, like, every day OK, let's go to this nightclub tonight, let's go to that nightclub tonight. Every night is like that. For me, I got two nightclubs to collect. Every nightclub, they give So a month, I get, like, 40 grand, without doing something, But for the big ones, as 100 grand a month for each general. Back then, the triad business always production company, bowling alley. That's a legal business. And for the underground business, maybe money laundering, They have business right In New York, in LA. They Back then, I can say, they have connections in Hong Kong. They all have connections in Hong Kong. The generals from the other group, they start a business of drug trafficking. Back then, it's very into United States. Maybe they have some They tell the girl to and pick up something At that time, it's very easy. It's not like right now. When the time I'm in Hong Kong, the movie business, I can say that is all controlled by triad. If you don't listen to triad, Not even a spot. You don't listen to them, There's a movie star come &quot;I'm not a triad,&quot; whatever. You believe them? You believe them. OK. But for me, I don't believe them. A lot of famous movie they are triad members. A lot of people don't know. And we know. Every gangster got a nickname because we don't want to use Easy to remember. I got big head, and my name's A lot of people are called Jimmy. So they won't forget, they They have a nickname for monkey. They have a nickname for They have all kind of nickname. They have all different kind of handshake, like different position. They have different kind of handshake. Sometimes you do this, and then you show with your hand sign, and then they know what's your position. Maybe the guy who you're and then you show him the and then he don't know because he's only a soldier, so he only can show So if I saw it, you're only a soldier, I don't want to talk to you. Tell your boss to come out, like this. They don't use that no more. The generation after the They don't care about this. They just care how many people you have, what kind of power you In Hong Kong, I'll never If I go to this nightclub, will follow me, go into nightclub. So they knew. They knew you're triad. We got experience. We can tell who's a triad, who's a cop, and who's a businessman. We can tell. For triads, they have a couple levels. But for Sun Yee On, the they are all controlled by one family. No other people can take their position. Every generation, they will pass down, like father and son, So it's all controlled After the top level, the We call it 426. After the 426 is the soldier. For the soldier, they call it 49. And after the soldier, that's the people who hang out but they are not a member yet. This is the main structure of the triad. Of course, they have a lot like white paper fan. That's the guy who There's another position that's for passing out the message. A special guy doing that. Now, at this century, a So only got left is the soldier, and the blue lantern. I only saw my boss in Hong But I know his family members. When I get to the general position, the boss will give you a couple places, like, couple of business places, for you to collect money every month. That's our salary. I just make sure they are they don't step out of the line. And that's what I did. If somebody step out of the line, OK, there's so many people in the group. So many people. Always, things happen, because you cannot control everybody. I never did that before, but what I heard, the worst thing, they got killed. That's the worst. If they did something against the company, against the group, they will get killed. After me, I have a couple of soldiers -- they are in the group for a long time, they have experience -- They are doing all the management. So this thing won't happen. But sometimes in the other groups, this thing did happen. That's what I heard. Hong Kong's really small, They all have their own district. Like, you control this part, and 14K controls the other part. But you know how the gangster is. They always want to increase their power. So they step in the district and the war is gonna start. When I was in Hong Kong, I saw another general in Sun Yee On, they have something going They start a war. They want Yeah, I saw that before. But this always happened Back then, in Hong Kong, but they don't use guns. They always use knife, because in Hong Kong the Even though they have a gun, they're hardly going to bring Almost impossible for people to get a gun license in Hong Kong. When the time I was in Hong always the gangsters from They bring the gun from China, then they use it in Hong Kong, and then they ran back to China. But for the original members in Hong Kong, they hardly use the gun. OK, maybe the lower-lower-level guy, but not the general. And if a fight starts, only the soldiers who start the fight. If we saw something and we know the war going and then the soldier forward. Different triad members, they are together doing It's money talks. Easy, it's money talks. If one general, he thinks and he want to share or share out with different Hong Kong is real small, I tell you. So you have to friend Back then, in Hong Kong the whole prison is run by the triad. The triad got more power than In the '60s and '70s, all the police was corruption, They worked together. Until now, no. Impossible. You can't. It is very strict right now. You do something they don't like, you will disappear forever, and people cannot find you. And you are not facing jail I decided to quit my gangster life. I got shot five times, and after that, I said, &quot;No more.&quot; I got sick and tired of that, because I'm getting old. The So I want to return to my I know the person who shot me, but I don't know why he Afterward, I found out. Because my soldier, under me, people under me shot their member two weeks ago. So they know I'm the general of them. So he shot me. At that time, I was at home, So I have to go down and try to buy a cigarette in the grocery. When I closed my driver's-side door and I check out the side mirror, I saw someone came out from a car behind, and then he started to shoot. And then the ambulance come, like, after at least 15 minutes, as I remember. They brought me to the Elmhurst Hospital, and they do a surgery, and then the doctor come by and tell me that, &quot;We and there's still a So I asked him, &quot;Why don't you And he was telling me that, &quot;Because that bullet is so that bullet's going That's what the doctor says. What do I have to do to leave? Actually, nothing. I just tell my soldiers. Because I have couple of soldiers, who control all the kids already. I just tell them that, starting the gambling house money, whatever, I'm going to give up everything. You guys take care of and anything happens, Even though after I left, I start working, and the FBI come to me, ask me questions. I say, &quot;I don't know In the '90s, the FBI, all the leaders, all the gangsters got arrested Without our help, they cannot stand in the United States no more, and then they back off and now disappear. The first beginning of Hung Mun. Hung Mun is the first one. After that, they split out from Hung Mun to all separate triads. They call it triad for in the southeast area. So inside that area, they Government people, they call them triad. And then they start to Sun Yee On in Hong Kong almost in all the Southeast Asian area. At my time, they have, and all over the world. They have a pretty long history. For all the high-level they become a businessman now. They doing legit business. All undergrounding is only for the lower-level members. I was born in 1965 in Hong Kong. I born in the district called Yau Ma Tei. Inside Yau Ma Tei, there's a At that time, the whole street So when I was real young, I And my father saw, like, I'm getting worse, my behavior's getting worse. So he decide to immigrate the whole family to the United States. At that time, there's a in Chinatown. Always waiting like after school. They try to do something to us and try to scare us and If we don't, we have to for protection, but we keep refusing them. One of my classmates, he told us that we should go look for and he's the leader of the Tung On gang. My classmate got killed they thought my friend but which at that time we are not. So we asked Clifford Wong &quot;Why don't guys just join our gang?&quot; So officially we joined the Tung On gang. I start as Tung On When I become a member So I was already in the gang life for, like, eight years already. We have a channel on YouTube, We started telling the true We want to do the best we can to find every former gangster member, no matter what level they so that the world knows I just want to say that, don't trust anybody except your parents. Don't trust any movie story. You are not a hero in the gang life. If you're really in the only two final ways out. First, you gonna end up in Second, you're going to get killed. My name is Robert Mazur. I spent two years undercover laundering tens of millions of dollars for Pablo Escobar's cartel. This is how crime works. Money laundering enables cartels to produce the most lethal thing that they produce around the It enables them to be presidents of countries. Operation C-Chase was a to prosecute the biggest money launderers of the Medellin cartel. Most of the people I dealt with were high-level drug traffickers who had hundreds of millions of dollars. I'm doing this interview in silhouette because two agencies and an that the Medellin cartel I spent a year and a half is one of the more sophisticated I built the persona of Robert Musella. I dressed the part. Drove a Rolls-Royce, Mercedes, Jaguar. I was embedded in real businesses. Had an air charter service We had a jewelry chain with 30 A lot of cash goes through every single day. So if you've got those you have a very good excuse I was embedded in an investment company, a mortgage-brokerage business, with a seat on the New And then I and my partner began a two-year infiltration and the banks that were supporting them. One of the keys to doing undercover work is to build your undercover persona to have as many traits Robert Musella was from Staten Island. I'm from Staten Island. Robert Musella was a businessman. I have a business background. I didn't fake accents, fake anything. I was always just me. The first person I met that was working within is a gentleman by the a small-time money launderer who had an import-export business. But the capacity he had to launder was probably limited to We had my and simply say, &quot;Listen, my but he never wants to meet you. He wants to stay in the shadows. But if you could ever convince him to come out of the shadows, and you'd be able to launder By the end of that six months, Gonzalo Mora was banging You know, it's always I also knew these people If you're afraid of a dog, they know that. You're the first one they bite. I didn't want to get bit, so I knew that I would be working against myself and undermining my cause if I showed any fear whatsoever. And I told him eventually, &quot;Listen, I have to get that they need to let me Your only responsibility If I succeed, we'll even He felt compelled to and then I started to climb up the ladder, to meet bigger and bigger people. You know, money launderers, are basically operating what's called the black-money market. It's an informal banking to people who operate So, as a black-money-market operator, I have a supply of dollars. My supply comes from drug traffickers. Now I have to find people who People who want to buy dollars are oftentimes importers around the world who otherwise have to go and spend 25% of their money I could sell it to them for 10%. My traffickers, in many So the best people I could were Colombian importers. All I have to do is swap. So, I have supply clients, But most often the money would controlled by the cartel, in Panama, and from there they wherever they wanted to hide it. Well, sometimes the money Like, there was a guy, his responsibility was acquiring and things like that So he basically was the buyer So I dealt with him in order to buy the specific which were Rockwell 1000s Some money is smuggled out of the United States down to Colombia, and it's used to make payoffs or prosecutors or politicians or whoever's help they need to buy. Most of the money's in five, 10s, and 20s. That's because people using illegal drugs buy it with five, 10s, and 20s. That gets collected by people for the cartels to do nothing They try not to have traffickers and money handlers in the same place. Too much asset to potentially be lost. So, the dollars generally duffle bags, boxes. New Get a million, $2 million per delivery. I generally had runners who You don't usually get the guy who really controls the safe on the street. The way it works is we get the information from Gonzalo Mora. So he might give us a phone number in the form of an invoice number. He might say that, you know, &quot;You need to get in touch with Guapo, and he's going to have 250 boxes. It's $250,000.&quot; They generally like to so it might be at a McDonald's. They sit down. Not much gets said. Pushes the keys across the Emir goes and gets the money. It's usually wrapped in rubber bands in blocks of $5,000 and $10,000, dependent upon denominations. A lot of people say, You've got all these millions and it's in cash.&quot; There's unfortunately been people in just about every agency that has fallen victim into My motivation was If I couldn't get the next and I couldn't risk more than I did to get the last piece of information, I felt as though I wasn't Yeah, I was addicted, but I Layering is a process by which usually offshore entities, are used to continue to receive maybe as a suitcase full of cash. The way we layered, the money would first be put into a certificate of in the name of an offshore entity. That money was used by for a loan in a different So let's say the loan was in Paris and that was to a Gibraltar corporation. And then that Gibraltar corporation would transfer the funds to to accounts controlled And so the purpose that is to just confuse the route in which the money is being moved. In order for anyone to you have to first pierce and bank secrecy laws. Then you have to pierce Then you have to pierce You know, a lot of times what they do if they don't want to deal they will use an army of the little blue guys, We kind of dubbed them Smurfs because let's say there's 10 of them. Their job every day is to go to meet with their money contact, and that guy may have and each of them gets $50,000 and a map that tells them to use cash to buy MoneyGrams, cashier's checks, money They'll buy a money order for $987.25 to try to make it look Leave the payee blank. They generally don't want So at the end of the day, was now a stack maybe 8 inches high of money orders, traveler's checks. There were times when to then take it from there and launder it. That was safety for them because we were not having direct contact with their main money people. We were just getting a FedEx box with $500,000 in money orders. I think the biggest deposit was somewhere around $2.1 million. There was a time that I met in Paris with Pablo Escobar's main lawyer, a guy the name of Santiago Uribe, and some other people that He'd sent Uribe to assess our money-laundering processes. And at the end of that meeting, we came to an agreement we would receive, in a relatively short period of time, $100 million that they wanted to put into a nest egg in Europe So, when we get back from Europe, we started getting deliveries. A million in the morning, $2 million in the afternoon. I had told the people who that they needed to be really careful and we needed to try to because they would have And one of the people who I dealt with, a person who met with Pablo Escobar often, told me, &quot;Make sure your people look on the street for gringos,&quot; white guys, &quot;who are in their late 20s, early 30s, in good shape, wearing jeans, pullover shirts with collars, solid color, jogging shoes, fanny packs. That's where their guns are hidden. Those are los feos.&quot; The ugly ones. That's informally what people So, I never used to want but this was getting very important. So I met with the people who were going to do the surveillance, and there was a room full pullover shirts that and they had fanny packs. And I tried to convince them that that was a uniform that but egos are such in law enforcement that sometimes people don't So, anyway, the surveillance got burned, and the next thing that Emir Abreu, received a phone And in the background of Gerardo Moncada, Pablo who was screaming that Musella, I, had to be a DEA undercover agent because they saw all the feds there, and all deals from here on were off. And I had to talk myself out of that. I guess the point is that there are a lot of different moving parts to and it's pretty easy for any one of us to do something that somebody else on the team. All of the traffickers &quot;I love your money-laundering system, but the end payout is US dollar checks from accounts that are We want you to open up US Panama uses the US dollar more than it does its own currency. They know that secrecy is big in Panama by corporations, by to get the information But what they told me also was, &quot;Listen, we want your accounts in Panama because we own Gen. Manuel Noriega, and he will not touch any of your accounts because you're with us.&quot; So now I have to open I happened to be driving of the Bank of Credit and the seventh-largest privately There was a big gold sign. Because I would've never walked in there if it wasn't for that. And they said, &quot;Well, if you can give us a resume.&quot; I had a fully verifiable resume, and I had bank accounts with all of which the bank in particular wanted to see before they opened up to me and explained to me how for many people in organized crime. And I said to him, &quot;All of my clients are They operate businesses here in the States that are very sensitive, and it's my job to very to move capital across borders.&quot; He goes, &quot;Well, that's We have plenty of customers He said, &quot;Yeah, Panama's There's a lot of hands in and sometimes mistakes can be made. And in fact, that's the the Bank of Credit and That got me into the inner circle of dirty officers in BCCI, and then I went on to meet The No. 1 person who managed my accounts, a gentleman by the name of Amjad Awan. He managed accounts for people who ran countries, for Manuel Noriega. He helped launder Noriega's drug profits from the protection he sold And during that time we recorded all of which were used as the cornerstones of the prosecution of and money launderers, but senior officials of the Bank of Credit and I needed to coax the conversations into the areas where I was their involvement in criminality. I couldn't allow them You have to try to get a way So one of the things that I one of the most famous in the late '80s was a guy He ran Chrysler. Everybody knew who he was. And so when I would talk to I would say, &quot;If my you might mistake them The big difference is they don't I dealt with dirty bankers. I dealt with lawyers in Switzerland who formed corporations to I dealt with attorneys in Panama, people who ran that do nothing other than form tens of thousands of corporations for people all over the world. They provide nominee directors that hide the beneficial and the control of corporations. All of these people are intermediaries who the underworld counts on. There were other people, real who were sending what they claimed to be precious metals in and which actually was lead and that was their cover for and were not bashful about it. Talking to the bank and saying, &quot;This is a cash-generating business.&quot; If you have enough that's believable, it's amazing how quickly that you are who you say you are. June of 1988. I was told that it would be that the operation would be taken down. I've got two years' worth of work to do, and I gotta get it done So many times these undercover operations result in indictments, but the bad guys, they're in countries that Colombia was one. Someone suggested, some kind of a personal event?&quot; One of the agents said, &quot;Well, they obviously appear to like Bob. How about a wedding?&quot; So we put this together for a supposed wedding in Innisbrook, which is a country club. This got personal. In some instances, children were part of the wedding. Wives. And the night before, one of my informants went and said, &quot;Hey, Bob doesn't know this. We're going to have a bachelor party. The cars will be here soon.&quot; The arrest team's there. They arrest them. Everybody was in disbelief. And the case concluded with the arrest of about 85 individuals, the collection of fines and forfeitures of about $600 million, and the seizure of about Ultimately, the bank imploded You know, it was all high fives. They wanted to go out and I wanted nothing to do I was emotionally exhausted. I first learned about about 30 days after the Operation C-Chase was over. The longest trial lasted six months. I was on the witness stand. I could see the hatred in their eyes, even more so in the eyes of their family No doubt, they didn't see me as a person who was just doing their job. They saw me as a person who tricked them. But I never tricked other than trusting me. Nobody in there did anything After I testified, my family We went into the mountains, got away from everybody, There was a pager number, an 800 number, that they could call. The office could call and occasionally I would check, and I got word that the jury had convicted every single person of I went back to the campsite by a river and just sat there thinking about it. And it occurred to me that I had done the same things and I was getting awards, and they were about to go And I don't take what I did lightly. Some people think it's a sign of weakness. I did drop a tear or two that day. I kind of think that was good, because I want a I don't want people high-fiving. It's unfortunate, but the and the private sector responsible for trying to have been highly unsuccessful. The United Nations on that roughly $400 billion from the sale of illegal drugs. What I really do believe needs to be done, you have to understand, there are two different sides of banking. There's the sales side Sales side brings in the accounts. Compliance, in an unhealthy to make sure they're not That needs to be brought together. I'm suggesting it only on accounts that have $5 million or more that have been received in a year. I think that the account that brought the account in should have to file with affirming that they've Questions that if you ask them would expose whether that's being run by front people. Those questions don't get asked, and they don't get asked now because the sales side always &quot;If I ask those questions, because they don't want to You know, we have a joint run by the FBI, but it's by I don't know how many hundred agencies. There should be a joint that does the exact same thing. There has been an evolution There are people who've been who have used cryptocurrency. Unlike cash, you can follow crypto. The other problem you have with crypto is you only need to look at Bitcoin and see that unlike the US I don't think it's really ready for the big time in the drug world. What is big? Gold refining in the Middle I retired from undercover work after the second operation and that was in the late '90s. I'm extraordinarily grateful from which I get the opportunity to speak, and that platform is first a that became a New York Times bestseller and the basis for a film by the same name starring Bryan Cranston. And then subsequently, a came out called &quot;The about the second undercover But as long as I've got that platform, I'm going to do everything I that can in some way try to with this massive illegal drug problem in our country My name's John Mendoza. I'm a former member of the I was a category III, and I was a regimental commander in different parts of Northern California. And this is how crime works. I've been to San Quentin, Pelican Bay. In the early '90s, they put us out there with Southern Mexicans and the Aryan Brotherhood, Those were our enemies. They were putting us out and we were going out there fighting. If you were crafty enough we'll try to kill each other. I went to prison in 1988 Some of my older homeboys that were there in the county jail with me basically told me that that the NR is going to approach me about making a commitment. The first time I went out there was a group of individuals that were covered with tattoos. Those were the NR members. they put me on a 90-day It's like you're functioning but you're not an actual member. You can do anything Stabbing somebody, keeping holding paperwork, holding a weapon. A lot of guys that make a commitment because they want the Those guys are going to because they're not making the commitment for the right reasons. I was an NR member for People take notice when and you're not questioning authority, you're developing into a leader. Eventually the NF is going to approach you because the NR, in essence, is like the NF's training grounds. I think it was 1994, I was approached by two Smiley from Salinas and Induction process is similar to the NR. You go through an indoctrination process where you learn some of You have a sponsor, and you have the guy They're responsible for you. When you make a commitment to the NF, it's a lifetime commitment. I was asked things like, &quot;Are you willing to kill Are you willing to put before everything else in your life?&quot; Everything else that you were They write everything down. There's 14 bonds, which is, I used to call it my little toolbox. Everything that I needed within that movement -- You're encouraged to study things like Middle Eastern philosophy, Socrates, revolutionary literature like And then there's everything about how to make weapons. I can make a stabbing instrument It's all about how you roll it and then how you put the point on. When your membership is sanctioned, They'll get together with you maybe in a group setting They'll say something like, &quot;Today, we're welcoming Me, I was right there in and it was done similar. &quot;Hey, this brother's a carnal now. He's a Familiano from this point on. He's a member of the mob.&quot; It's like, I felt like a point in my career where I had really accomplished something. Everything that I've When a new arrival will come in, we'll get his information, we'll get his name, his CDC number, we'll get a little bit about his history. We'll get things like his aka, his age, his neighborhood, what they called him. We'll look on the BNL to make So, the BNL, the Bad News of everybody that's coming I'll send a filter out to all the members that are in that household, &quot;Have you done time with this individual? This guy just drove up. Do you know him?&quot; Any good or bad information, If nothing comes back, he'll Then at that point, he'll soap, shampoo, coffee, When you first come in to an they give you what's That's like your passport. The gangs, they're going but the only way you're is if they freely give it up. That's the only way we're going to get it. It's going to say on that lockup order whatever gang that you're affiliated with. It's going to say things like, if you got an S on your jacket, like a sex offense or something, it's going to say it right there. So somebody like that, you know, you got an S, they probably wouldn't even give up their 114 lockup order because they already know what time it is. If you decline to give up That's somebody that refused Somebody like that's out to the yard. If he tries to come out to the yard, he'll get hit at the gate. I mean, obviously there's a lot of perks with becoming a member like that. You're going to get that from a lot of the youngsters out there on the streets and in They call NF members, just like they call Mexican You're going to have a I've learned a lot of things even though I'm not a part of it no more. Things like conducting The NF is built, it's constructed or built A lot of the old NF members They're ex-Marines, so the structure of the and brought it to the NF. You have captains, lieutenants, commanders, a category I-er. Or for members that are just they have no status over anybody else. Then you have a cat II. They've shown that they and they can give a correct interpretation of the constitution. They'll become teachers for the cat Is. Now, in order to become a cat III, it's the cream of the crop. Then you have the inner that basically make the decisions for the entire organization. You have a general for the prisons, you have a general for the streets, and then you have a general that's -- it's basically like internal affairs. He handles investigations, things like that. When you're in the SHU, you might be in charge of, like, 200 guys. You're not really There's guys out there on the mainline, regimental commanders out But on the streets, if you're a regimental it might be 20 or 30 guys. I was a regimental commander Different parts. Each time, there was probably that were under me at that time. A day for me, well, it you're running H-Unit in I would have to sit there and So you're getting daily from all these different blocks. All day long, I would just be San Quentin is the worst place to be as far as being a leader. The main rivals for the they're following the Surenos, and then you have the Aryan Brotherhood, and they're following the whites. But on the mainline, it's mixed. Everybody's mixed out there. The Nortenos, the Surenos, If you're talking about in an a SHU program, everybody's I spent all the '90s in the SHU program. When you see us out there burpees and we're doing we're not out there doing to get karate bodies and just We're training for a They're getting ready to They're going to be engaged in a conflict. So, the SHU program is like They put you in a cell, and you stay in the cell You'll come out of the cell for a half hour to take a shower, and then you might come out for yard, and you come out to a yard that's, you got four concrete walls and a camera. That's all that's out there. If you see a bird fly over, you're like, &quot;Damn, I seen a bird today, man.&quot; You go back in there and In the SHU program, they got Everything is electric They sit up there and You know, you got one cop up there that's in charge of six different pods. So he might forget or he might forget that a door is open and he'll press another button and somebody else will come out. You could be in there watching and you'll be out on the tier in a fight for your life the next minute. It'll happen just that fast. So, us as Nortenos, you know, all day our and we'd be sitting by the door. I mean, I get up and I work out, I watch my TV, but for the most part, whenever there was movement I would be posted up on my door, ready, just in case my door would open. Because a lot of times the COs but it wasn't a mistake. You know, they pop certain doors I used to see them. I used There's a lot of different places out there on the yards to bury weapons. Inside the buildings, up on the, like, in the little rafters. We obviously know where they're at. Under sinks or in the walls, buried. They keister it. You know, to move a weapon they'll put it in their anal cavity, is how it's moved around. I don't know how you want So, I went through Corcoran SHU We were going at it with the Mexican Mafia and the Aryan Brotherhood. You know, they knew we that we would kill each but they would put us out on the yard. And they knew. The You'd have to have your light on, and that meant that you Guys used to turn their lights off because they didn't want no part of it. But those of us that remained active, we'd turn our lights on and we'd go out. It's like a little enclosure and the yard's like a little, it's kind of shaped like a piece of pie. When you get in that little enclosure, you can see through the yard door who you're going to go out So we'd go out, we'd fight. Always try to get yourself situated so that they have their back to the gunner so that you can see Because we were the ones It was the Northeners and the Blacks that were getting shot There's no warning shots, per se, but what they have is they have, like, a -- it's called a bertha or a knee-knocker. It's, like, a gas gun that Sometimes they'll fire once, twice, and then they'll grab the real gun. But yeah, they don't give warning shots. Now, the other thing though, too, is the COs are making bets. They would be like, &quot;Hey, we You guys better go out there You know, sometimes they from one building and they from another building When I first came in I used to mean-mug them. I used to have a bad taste And I didn't even know why I hated them. It was because I was supposed to. That's the mindset that But being around them, a lot They were solid dudes. If there's a Sureno and or I got a book and he we'll pass literature back We can play chess on the tier. It doesn't do us any good any more stressful than what it is. Now, like I said, if the gate's open, we were directed to basically torpedo out and engage with whoever was on the tier. If we were going to take our politics might get set to where, yeah, we might come together to go against administration. You might see something within an ad-seg unit or something where we're not getting fed right, they're tearing up our cells and disrespecting personal possessions like pictures and things like &quot;You know what? We had enough. Blocking your window so that which basically forces them and cell-extract you. It's something that I was in Susanville. You know, when we were going people might debate this, but as far as who they favored in that war. Even some of the female officers. It's just, you could tell that they were either or they were sympathizing for the south. A lot of it is just geography. Where that prison's at, that might be hooked Corruption, it's rampant I mean, you see a lot of female officers are getting The next thing you know, They're not getting that kind of stuff in through the visiting room. They're getting it through corrupt COs. In prison, one of the things are the cellphones that are coming in. But it's a huge business for COs. They can make anywhere bringing in a phone, a cellphone. Having the phones is, it's a when I was in the SHU when we'd be back there there was a lot of lag Either it had to go out through a phone call, or a visit, maybe a week or two for somebody to drive 300, 400 miles to come But now you put these cellphones in the hands of these leaders, if somebody's got a green light on them, they'll make a phone call. You'll get a leader that on the streets, and it &quot;Hey, this dude's got a green It might happen that same night. Let's say somebody came on the tier, I was on the tier in and he was, like, six cells down. I'd make verbal contact with him. I'd yell down there, &quot;Hey, Heyo, once you get situated, go ahead and make a line Making a line is where you take or from the strands from your sheet. You'll make a line, and so that you can put a and then you'll throw it down the tier. It's just a way to get back So he'll tie the kite on and I'll read it, and and he'll pull it back. Ingenuity. There's a lot of different ways to do things like that. there's a language that we use It's an Aztec language, and but we use it so that if we're on a tier and we need to communicate and we can talk on the tier in front of them and they're not going to know what we say. There's very few people that They'll just know certain CO, hit, green light, things like that. Nortenos, our color is red. Surenos, they wear blue. So, the NF insignia, the sombrero, obviously it signifies You got the dagger that signifies that this is a violent organization. And then each drop of blood characterizes its own individual meaning. So one drop of blood is for blood in, guys that have spilled blood Blood out, meaning anybody from the organization, it's And then the third drop that have honorably spilled blood, that have died in the I had &quot;Nuestra Familia&quot; and I got that covered up. I had a star on my hairline, when I had hair, that signified the NR. I had &quot;Familiano&quot; over my left eyebrow, being a family member in Spanish. And then I had a tattoo I had a &quot;NF&quot; back there. The whole purpose of generating money is supposed to be for the that are doing life in prison that don't have a means to That's what it's supposed to be. It's a smoke screen, though. There's a trickle-up effect. The money that comes in, the select few at the and they're the ones that use that money for their own expenses. Some of it's used to invest in drugs and to invest in new you know, breaking NF ground If I got a visitor that's off the top, my gang is 25% of it, 50% of it, or I might even have to and they'll give me back what they feel that they want to give me. You know, you're part of that gang, you're going to take care of that gang or that criminal organization. The biggest thing in prison, the currency in there is soups. Everybody loves soups, Top Ramens. That's like prison or But, you know, obviously then the hardcore drugs White lightning, a cup of But you're talking that's like vodka. I learned early on from that the more violent I was, out there on the streets, The fastest way to elevate is by hurting people. So, out on the streets, the structure, you have your regimental your squad leaders, I would have a second in command, and he would be my buffer. He would collect the money. He would make sure that issuing out the drugs, the guns that were coming That was to kind of keep me insulated. In the '90s, when it was a lot different, the regiments were called Everything was compartmentalized. You had a robbery crew, another You had a wrecking crew. I think the influence has waned In the '80s and the '90s, you couldn't testify against the NF and live in the same county. You wouldn't even want The threat was, it was very But once the three-strike we kind of stepped away and started doing almost The influence is there. People know that they're out there, they're in the cuts, they're functioning. It's just not as -- it's not like it was. I want to say since, like, '68 is when the NF first came into inception. From that time on, that's the Mexican Mafia in This is basically when decided that they weren't going to be abused by the Mexican Mafia anymore. And from that point on, So for almost the next five decades, that war was in effect. The truce actually started at Pelican Bay, the end of Again, the whole purpose of it that had been in the SHU program for, some of them three decades, it was to get back out to the mainlines and to basically show CDC that they could live on the same yard So I thought it was a temporary thing. They were going to get out there, somebody was going to and it was going to kick off, and then it was just going But it's lasted. I mean, honestly, I never that I would ever see the would be out there on the with each other, walking But at the same time, there Guys that had issues, their respective gang, Whether it was over misconduct, something came up in their there was a lot of housecleaning. And then there was a lot of guys that didn't agree with the peace treaty. They felt like, &quot;You know what? I didn't sign up for this, man. What are we doing? What that have spilled blood in the past?&quot; I think the violence is worse. When they let these guys all these leaders, guys from the '80s, when I came to prison, they're starting to bring where they're not just poking people and slicing people up no more. You see all the murders that The Mexican Mafia, the They would rather eat their own right now, stab some of their own The politics that are going on right now, everything's going backwards. In 2004, I was arrested in where I was the leader of a street crew, an NF regiment. So I was the main target On the first day, on June 11th, 2004, they raided around eight houses that were all in relation On the first wave, they hit my house where I had all my guns. They hit another house By 2005, that case continued to snowball. They put me in a observation I had too much influence So they wanted to keep me isolated. And during that time, my girl, she had lupus. I was trying to do everything I could to make it easy on her. I knew I was in trouble, but I didn't want to tell and for somebody like that, during the first couple weeks talking to her, my mom on the phone, I had some difficult You know, &quot;What are you going to do? Are you going to sacrifice yourself? Think about your family for once.&quot; My mom kept pushing me to cooperate. She kept pushing me to cooperate. &quot;You need to cooperate. Do what you do. Your wife's out here dying. And I basically started pacifying her, telling her whatever I needed to tell her. &quot;Let the case play out. I haven't even been to court yet.&quot; So, what they do is, and understandably, they release my phone calls of how I've been talking to my girl, and all my codefendants hear these conversations about cooperating. Trying to explain that to the NF, it was going to fall on deaf I was a leader. I get held because I know better, and I got no business talking like that. This is five years later now. People are still speculating Come on, man. It's five years, and there's no police So, somebody that had an agenda pushed the issue with They put a green light It was literally - the dude, tried to push a phone over I still held my mud. I still wanted to be a 17 months later, they put I functioned for another two years. Put another green light on me, and the second time, it was Somebody wanted to act like they were trying to spear The spear was, like, 2 feet too short. Didn't have a tip on it. You know, my wife, she My mom ended up dying. She passed away. So they did this at a in a dark place, you know what I mean? I'm looking at life. I was getting ready to plead So I was like, &quot;You know The district attorney wants to wash me up. I'm in bad standings now Law enforcement again &quot;You know what? Loyalty only I agreed that I was done and that I would talk to them. So that's what I did from that point on. I denounced my membership, and I agreed to cooperate. However, the cooperation I didn't go in as a percipient witness. Everybody that I got So I went in there basically talking about what I'm talking about The judge struck two of my strike priors, which took me out of the three strikes and gave me 16 years, eight months. I've been in the county None of that had to happen. If the NF would've let me fight my case, I would've been a big dummy with a life sentence. Yeah, I But, you know, by them I felt betrayed. For somebody that just the organization no more, to just ride off into the sunset and go on about their it's still not considered honorable, but it's something that people will say, &quot;You know what? At least he At least he didn't hurt nobody.&quot; But, you know, there's never retirement. You'll never be able to I've had a couple some individuals. When that's when everybody wants to get active. But, you know, when I they're not trying to do all that. And I'm not trying to I'm trying to just live. Live out the rest of my I'm not going to spend the rest of my life looking over my shoulder. I grew up in San Francisco, California. My mom was a young heroin addict. She got involved with At the age of 11, I found my way back to my I found out she was using. And she didn't just give it to me. You know, people are going to be like, &quot;What kind of mother gives I understand that, but I don't blame her. I look at it as, she was at a young age. She got and I kind of manipulated the situation. I told her I knew what she was doing, and if she didn't give it to me, I was going to go get it in the streets. And from that point on, that s--- tore my life from relationships to me becoming involved in From then, I stopped going to school. I started drinking. That's when I started It started with burglarizing cars, ripping out the radios, the speakers, selling them for drugs. Robberies, home invasions. And then we started using weapons, and it just continued to escalate. From that time, it didn't take me long before I got caught up in I caught four robberies, and two out of San Mateo. I took seven years, ran consecutive, and they sent me to prison. My book is -- through talking to at-risk youth, I've talked to kids that Probation officers come up &quot;These youngsters, they read your book, and we actually use your book as a workshop type of thing. The name of the book is called &quot;Nuestra Familia: A Broken Paradigm.&quot; And so I started doing a YouTube channel, Paradigm Media News. I got a series on my channel, and the other one's called &quot;War Stories.&quot; It's also therapeutical to talk about it, you know, to try to help that might be headed for I give them the fine print that they don't hear until they make a commitment and they find theirselves I've seen a lot of my homeboys Most of them are gone. There's only three roads in this lifestyle. You're either going to spend the rest of your life in prison, you're going to die trying advancement forward, or you're There's no pot of gold at My name is Mike Moy. I was a former member of a Chinatown gang. I later became an NYPD cop. And this is how crime works. You had so many guns that's secret tunnels, and you have A crazy person wouldn't even because even a crazy person, they feel pain, they fear death. So, as far as being in a Chinatown gang, you're either going to wind up in jail or it's going to be some outcome that's not going to be good. So, I was only 16 when I joined the gang, and it was one of the during that time. There In the 1970s, the Ghost those were the two main gangs. Eventually, you had the White the Fuk Ching, the Green The violence between the gangs, I wouldn't say it's because of territory. I would say it's because of respect. Any form of disrespect warrants Remember, these kids are young. 13-, 15-, 16-year-old kids. All they want is for people Maybe it's because they're or they have low self-esteem. It's all about respect. And a lot of people died When we were in a gang, most of us at one time or another had some sort of interaction Even I, myself, in my early 20s, was dealing with guys But these Italian, young they're the ones who were a problem to us. And there were some shootings where some of our guys They'd walk around with and want to be tough, and they didn't know who they were messing with You know, we felt like we were invincible. During my teen years, street robberies, petty But then as I got older, got into my 20s, started selling marijuana, credit-card fraud, stolen credit cards from a source that we I opened gambling houses. A gambling house that we right next to the Rosemary We would have poker They would put the Sometimes we'd have poker tables, pai gow tables where we So that was one of the most profitable business I had. And also bootleg videotapes. Back in those days, the VCR tapes, those Shaw Brother kung fu movies, they made me a lot of money too. All we had to do was get a bunch of VCRs and copy those tapes. So we're talking about the, probably the '80s and '90s. After the Italians lost in the &quot;Pizza Connection&quot; trial, yeah, there was a vacuum The Chinese were able to import high-quality heroin into Chinatown. They dominated that Just imagine how much money during those days in I mean, you had cab drivers, waiters, waitresses benefiting from all that money. Even factory workers. Because the gangsters into Chinatown. Yeah, they extorted from the stores, but they weren't out out of business, how All the business in Chinatown was flourishing during that time. Look at Chinatown back It's open 24 hours. You get the gang members during the Chinese New Year's, and the owner's going to give It's just a little piece Less than what they probably pay for the garbage disposal, right? To the Italians. You know, we did protect the neighborhood. And I even have personal experiences protecting the businesses, you know, doing what I needed to to protect the business by people who didn't even know better. Some of those people remember The person that you least that's the person that's carrying the gun. So, when we travel in a group, for example, we go into a pool there'll be a kid in the watching over us, and that's There could be a targeted hit where, OK, you're going to go get this yes, but a lot of times you can't control what they do. And it was very easy to get I know in the '70s they had getting guns from the Italians. In the '80s and '90s, to go out of state and buy a gun. Just show your ID in a flea market, and you just buy a bunch of antique guns. Safe houses are located all over. We had safe houses in Brooklyn, by Williamsburg, one by Midwood; Queens, by Woodhaven. So we had several places At any given time, there 10, 15 people in that apartment, sleeping there, living there. We kept it very low-key. A side entrance, so it doesn't appear to be a So the runners will go out there and buy whatever's necessary, whether it's food or drinks, whatever they need. Generally, the police wouldn't What they care about are guns. But luckily we hid our guns in a way where the One of the ways what we did was, we were on the second floor, so we would tie it in a string and lower it down to the first floor. So all you see was a string on the floor. But who would expect when there's a gun there? And so many secret tunnels and As far as the tunnels, you Bayard Street, Canal Street, Pell Street, Doyers Street. These places. Those tunnels was used After you do a shooting, and just come out from the That's why there's so many I was 16 years old when I joined a gang. I saw it as a way to During my years in school, So I was a victim of bullying. How did I become a member of the gang? Initially, I started and when they started to trust me, they know I was able that's when I got accepted. And they would give you a and say, &quot;Hey, you have a big head, so we're going to call you Bighead.&quot; Onionhead nickname came The newspaper and journals claimed that Onionhead's nickname came from, &quot;If you betray him, he'll give you tears. That's why they call him Onionhead.&quot; But that is not true. He with his haircut back in those days. They tried to give me a nickname. I put a stop to it. I'm I like to stay under the And I was firm about it, But what they call me behind And we did a initiation ritual together with two other members. We kneeled down and we lit up the incense. We poured wine in front to give him an offering. In the wine was our blood. We pricked our fingers. After the initiation, we felt a certain bond, like a brotherhood. What the Italians would we would call liang chai. What the Italians would we would call them ma chai. Like, a captain, a dai ma. Underboss, that would be a dai lo, which is big brother. The leader, dai lo dai. And that would be the guy at the top. So, how does one become a dai lo? Start out as a soldier, and if you have the qualities of a dai lo, such as the gift of gab, then you'll have these kids following you. You spend money on them, you become a dai lo. The dai lo would give That goes to pay for everything food, expenses, the safe The money trickles down to us, unlike the Italians, where They have to pay for our loyalty. What we do in the streets, we basically enhance their reputation. A lot of people have tongs, triads, and gangs It's not. The tongs were former who later tried to become a legitimate enterprise the new immigrants But you have a handful of bad apples that associated themselves with the gangs, and they used the gangs The Flying Dragons was under the Ghost Shadows was under and the Tung On gang was The Flying Dragons had Doyers Street, and later on they moved on to Canal Street and Grand Street. The Ghost Shadows had control The White Tigers went to Queens, Elmhurst. Later on, the Tung On gang was created, and they took control of East Broadway. Do the Chinatown gangs still exist today? Yes, they do, but they A lot different than what I grew up with. There isn't a dai lo, so to speak. There isn't a big leader, like how we had. They keep it totally underground. Back in those days, we dealt crimes that warrant the The NYPD didn't have the resources to take on the Asian gangs. They didn't even have the translators available to translate. They were just there to help the FBI. But it was the FBI that It was around 1993. The FBI started rounding and that's when it started falling apart. The people at the top So the people at the bottom Most of the gang members or they were killed or in prison. That's when I made the transition. And in order to make that it had to be like a light switch. It was like a on-and-off switch. It was either all or nothing. You know, I grew up What happened to Steven he forgave the kid who shot him. And when Steven McDonald mentioned that this kid was a product of his environment, did a lot of self-reflection, and I see that how I grew up, it made me who I am, and maybe I need to change. So I joined the NYPD in 1995. But the gang was always there When I took the oath, I I was assigned to work in Chinatown. So. I didn't expect to be my old stomping grounds as a gang member, and that was a little bit nerve-racking, because what would happen if I bumped into my rivals or my fellow gang mates? And it did happen. I bumped I bumped into my former Even when I was assigned and I got promoted many years later, some of these guys came out from prison, and I was assigned to arrest them. Some of them couldn't make a living, so they started doing home robbing stores and taxi cabs and whatnot. They started getting involved with different type of rackets now. They didn't get involved because the feds were watching that. So they got involved with other things, like the transportation the bus going out of state. They still did their gambling houses, and the prostitution houses As opposed to back in those days, where you would go into and you would see 10, 15, even 20 girls. So what they did was they broke it up into, like, an apartment, and they would only have The gangs were operating Nobody wanted to call I love the NYPD. NYPD gave me everything I It's just that I had a bad experience while working with some That left a bad taste in my mouth. So it was time for me to leave. I left July of 2021. After over 26 years, called Chinatown Gang from former gang members who lived a life. Because there's a lot of A lot of the information Movies, authors, and documentaries. My channel will give you of what really happened in What did I learn from being Between social media, cellphones, and plate readers, DNA, facial recognition, Big Brother's watching everything you do. So there's no place in today's society for gangs anymore. My name is Bryan Sobolewski. I'm a former diamond thief, and I stole $2.3 million throughout New England. And this is how crime works. I would compare the jewelry in terms of how shady it is. You're never getting the You're probably buying The markup is somewhere when you walk into a store I was 20 when this started, So it was a five-year span. So, you had my dad, My brother, he was the muscle. I was usually the driver. I was usually the lookout. We had an inside guy. Bill So he'd basically feed us who If we were going into a store, he would tell us where the safe is, what time the safe opened up, what time the guy would be there. He himself was a traveling salesman. That's how he knew everybody. We used Bill to place an just so we knew that that and we'd have a certain amount that we'd be able to get from the store. The landscape at the time was, you had a lot of You didn't have a whole lot of chains. There was Kay Jewelers, there but most of them were independent. And they had traveling salesmen with their product lying in their car, and they would travel to these stores and try to sell to them. We tried to hit anybody that or false robberies prior. We never went after anybody clean. And that's very hard to find You'd be surprised how many of these guys are reporting fake robberies and taking the insurance money. Casing a job is, it's maddening, but it's super, super, super important. It's about recognizing traffic. What time a patrol car might go by. All of this stuff fed into what time of day we would do a job. Usually during the day. We didn't mind crowds. Crowds People being interested So, for Seabrook, for the Woody job, it was basically, what Where does he pull his car up? The Raynham robbery, my a Papa Gino's right next and then went back in the car and ate it. Everyone from Papa Gino's remembered us. Every single person. So that's one of the things about casing. You've got to notice, but you So, the cars that we used were never ours. We would go back at night, take the car. We'd go into a mall parking lot. I would unscrew somebody's license plate. We would put that on the My dad would bring it back the next night. He'd just leave it back on the lot. You could never prepare There would be no scenario and go through that some issue that we would have to overcome. I would go in as a customer based on being as average as possible, It was nerve-racking, having bolt cutters just in that we didn't have a key for. My dad would go in with his girlfriend. It sounds so sexist, but Most of the traveling salesmen that we were going after were males. So it wasn't necessarily about It was more about what gender it was. One of the things that we that we could get into the safe. We knew that the for you having loose diamonds and being able to sell them is that every single to bring a diamond out, But my dad did it in a way that he kept sending the guy back that eventually the guy would And most people didn't follow So once we knew the safe was open, that's when we would take down the store. It was 90 seconds at the So when my dad and his and start talking, that's It's 90 seconds from when Kev comes in and the guy's subdued. That's when we hit the clock. I don't know what you have in So there were times we left a case behind. We didn't take everything. The 90-second rule came from bank robbers. They tell you that you cannot Because if you go for the vault, it's going to be more than Everything was based on Kev. It was either cuffs or duct tape or sometimes just standing So my brother would jump over the case, grab them, and put them down. Say, &quot;Just keep your mouth shut. We'll be out of here in a couple seconds. Nobody's going to get hurt.&quot; My dad went after the safe. One time we encountered a it didn't have what we thought was in it, and my dad just wasn't convinced. And he started fooling around and he pressed it, and it popped up, and everything was inside. The bottom was hollowed out. So, I'd always have a ball-peen hammer. And those cases are not easy to break because they all have a layer So when you hit it, just a hole. You have to keep smashing this whole piece of cracked glass into -- and then it makes the items So that's why some of these cases, even the jewelry-store windows, there were people in the '80s that would smash and My dad had rules. We In the scenario that we that wasn't ours and we were looking to we would stage it so that they were only pointed at the victim. So we purposely didn't point so that the victim would And that's exactly what happened. There was a plan that my that we would go in and actually as we could in the Jewelers There is an actual building with five or six floors full of jewelers. And it was something that we squashed because the front-desk We never had to deal because at the time there that required an armed guard be there. The only one was the double And you'll notice that jewelry stores, is there's hold both doors open You'd have to go through one, take a number of steps before And that's because they And at that point, we're like, nope. Most of these stores buzz you in. I can't get into a jewelry store now without being buzzed in. They don't use a high-tech because you have foot traffic. And that stuff, you know, are that are tripped once you go past them? Well, you can't use that during the day. There are alarmed cases now, but again, you have to consider who's When's the last time you did If during the day, during business hours an alarm is going off, I think most people are going and wait for it to shut off. Most people's first instinct isn't to call the police So now you have a live I think the &quot;Pink Panther&quot; jewelry-store robbery went didn't have to be connected to your phone. So once a silent alarm, once it's tripped, it can contact a satellite. The satellite calls the cops. You can't stop that unless you find a way to cut the electricity And even then they have backup systems. So, yes, if the power does go out, that security system's If we left in the stolen car, we'd throw everything in the That's when I had the opportunity to start going through the stuff. We had to keep the stuff in the house. So we would have $500,000 of jewelry, retail. Wholesale, that's probably about a hundred grand worth of stuff. My dad would separate it here are the bracelets, here are the uncut gems, here are the set gems. From there it's just that we could sell to jewelry stores. High-end stuff is super, You know, little trinkets, little chains. My dad made more money off with little beads inside. If it sparkles, people will buy it. So for us, no, there wasn't in terms of what you were grabbing. But if I got five cases in front of me and one's full of diamonds I'm going for that. The gold chain is way than a diamond ring is. You don't want to deal with uncut, because then you gotta go And that's not easy to do. I would rather sell you a because more of it's done and You're charging for the gold. So when you go in and you buy a diamond, now you're paying for the diamond, you're paying for whatever Bill was our main dump site [Censored] was the other person. And this was a guy that understood that the markup is where you make your money, and if you buy stolen stuff, you can mark the hell out of it. So if you buy it at $0.50 on the dollar, you can already just charge charge a little bit more, [Censored] bought a lot of So, getting rid of jewelry in Because as soon as you you're an accomplice. So you gotta understand, after a robbery, every single pawnshop is, you know, the cops say, &quot;If you see any So we couldn't just go here, buy all this stuff. We put it through piecemeal. So it's great to have a but if you don't have anywhere and fencing is what we call Get caught buying fenced And that's how most people get Jewelry party is where it's like a Tupperware party with jewelry. So, come and look at our product. We would lay everything out on the table, display it, and people And it's cash. It's cash business. A lot of diamonds are You can buy fake paperwork for this stuff. So, at the time, it was rare The technology wasn't there, and the technology was expensive. So you have now certifying that will give you a certificate that says this is the diamond you're buying, and this is how it's graded, and this is blah, blah, blah. But you can pay for those. One of the ways we used to You might go into a and they'll take a little pen and they'll hit it with a to tell if it's a real diamond. You're pretty much OK buying any gold, but you gotta make sure it's stamped. So if you have a piece of gold that's, you know, they say is 18-karat gold but there's no stamp that Gold will not magnetize. That might be a way. I used to try to, I'd take some of the stolen jewelry and try to sell it for drugs, and they used to dip it bleach reacts to the other That's not true. It doesn't work. I'm not going to a store and Because you're paying and you don't know. You Some people are probably wondering whether or not what they have on their Diamonds are not rare. A flawless diamond is rare, but sapphires and emeralds are way rarer, if that's even a word, because you just don't find and you don't find them treated or enhanced in some way artificially. Most of the insurance were hearing secondhand what the person reported was stolen from their store. Every job that we did and talk to that person afterwards without knowing that Bill was we heard what he said was stolen, and it was always double. At least double. These guys are taking this problem and turning it into an opportunity. And that's why you're paying is because these guys, insurance companies are If you're really, really good at it, you will have knowledge of how which is why we never pulled a Nashua, New Hampshire, had at the time. I grew up in Boston with organized crime. I wasn't in it, but we all knew ran all of the waste management, An entire section of Boston was devoted to strip clubs, drug dealing. And the second you stepped and did any of that or somebody from that crew or That was the place you did it. And it ran really well. Bulger comes in, and it just No way we would've robbed 22 stores while the Angiulos were in power. They would've either come to or they would've said and you can't hit them. When you think to get his sons involved My dad lived a very different He grew up in Chelsea, Heller's Bar was a mob bar. Right behind Heller's was a frequently, my dad would leave his house and see a tractor trailer where the mob picked They would park it in and that's where they And my dad saw this. So my dad followed every He was an upstanding member of society, unless there was something on the ground that wasn't tied down that he could take. And that was the mentality, I think, of most people in Pay your taxes, keep but if you see an opportunity to take a little something, grab it. My father initially gave to invest in importing This guy decided to take and then tell him that he And my dad was in a bad place. He finally asked if we would help him. He finally just sat down You guys are going to have You're going to have to work full time. I don't have any money to Or we could go get the money back from this guy and set him up.&quot; And that's exactly what we did. And it started the beginning It started as, we gotta save Dad. And then my dad started as, we're helping people. We're going after this guy, he's dirty, and this guy ripped people off, and if we stop him, he won't rip anybody. It was like a Robin Hood kind of thing. After five, you start we're not superheroes, and we're What are we doing? And that's when things my brother and I were very worried at how much further this was going to go. The real victims are anybody their right to freedom, their without somebody tying them It doesn't stop with them. It stops with anybody that had to hear about I was arrested on December 26 of 1996. There was enough distinctiveness about us to separate us from anybody else doing it. There weren't a whole lot of crews. There weren't a lot of I went to rehab and I and my brother and father continued. They did two more, and then But I stopped because I had sobered up, and I went back to school to become a drug and alcohol counselor. My brother was already arrested. My father was already arrested. They were both sitting awaiting trial, and I knew they were coming for me. To me, prison was a lot like criminal university. So many inmates would &quot;OK, what did you do? How And they leave with knowledge So prison is a, it can be an education in terms of if you want to that's the place to go that got caught and figure I think the hardest part wasn't the jail time. It's the stigma. I couldn't get hired. Regret sucks, man. It really does. It's not easy to live with. It was ultimately my decision. And I, you know, I could and wasn't capable of but I was 20. My father and brother passed My brother and I had a very difficult and complicated relationship. We very rarely got along. And when we bonded, it was So through our drug abuse, we bonded. Through the robberies, we bonded. In prison, we bonded. But whenever we were substantial to solidify that The book I wrote is and it was my attempt to to talk to kids, to talk to people, to maybe use the how crazy this story is to kind of scare you straight. I work as a personal trainer now. I created my own certification. I wrote my own book that for this type of exercise. And it is now approved by three, four certifying bodies I do the podcast, I do Podcast allowed me to It allowed me to break down My name's Jeff Turner, I've printed over a million and this is how crime works. I've been called &quot;the From my perspective, it if that makes sense. It just took a lot of The bills just progressively until eventually got caught. And the Secret Service were the best they've seen in 25 years. I started counterfeiting in a desperate financial situation. I wrecked a work truck, so I lost my job, and I had a newborn baby at home, the lease was up in our house, so I was just kind of in a desperate spot. I was just trying to think of some way to get my family back And counterfeiting just ended up being the safest, easiest way. The majority of the money I printed was the '96-series $100 bill. I also counterfeited some of but really that was just kind of a challenge. The longest process to was making the digital files. I would say I spent two months of just editing these images. Really, Wikipedia has pretty high-resolution and I broke the image So I would have one image of I'd jumble up the serial numbers. I knew I needed to find a real thin paper that was opaque enough the strip and watermark I went through rice paper, vellum paper, tracing paper, toilet paper, I ended up finding that Bible paper glows a dull I would acquire the Bible and just kind of taking Inevitably, I ran out of I would coat the bills with which basically enabled the to mark yellow. I would also use a invisible-ink UV pen to draw an invisible line over the strip. I also found a certain type that I would basically in the bottom corner to kind of replicate the color-shifting ink. One cashier would run her fingernail along Benjamin Franklin's shirt to kind of feel the rigid texture. I ended up going to, like, a Hobby Lobby, and I found a fine-tip glue pen. It would dry and give a The 3D security ribbon was hard to crack. The Bureau of Engraving and Printing kind of outsources a and some of the security features, and I was able to find the patent rights, so it was like, it basically The trial and error was When I first started counterfeiting, I would just experiment, and I'd mess up five for Towards the end I could make a perfect counterfeit $100 bill in probably five or 10 minutes. I've had a few printers Sometimes the paper would It's not so much noisy, because but the matte lacquer spray smells really bad. So a lot of times maids at hotels would come into my room thinking we're, like, I'd have to say, &quot;Oh, my or, you know, just make But eventually, I rented a that would suck the matte so I could kind of spray the bills in front of this exhaust fan that, it kind of sucked it out the window. There weren't really big I would try to essentially So I'd print maybe $2,000, $5,000 in the morning and early afternoon, and then I'd try to break all those bills before the end of the night. There was probably 10 or retail, grocery stores, And those were the best I also sold bills to people. 25 cents on the dollar was If I was breaking a bill in a store, I would try to go to female cashiers, and if I sent women in with the bills, I would tell them to go to male cashiers. When I would break a bill, I'd to kind of distract them a little bit. The majority of your get kind of called out at the register, and they'll get a license-plate And I would always park my car far away, so they could never get my license plate. I steered away from self-checkout machines because they were just too hard to beat. And some of them even where it just analyzes the micro-printing and all that stuff. In the beginning, I was definitely nervous because I spent so much that I would notice any little error or anything like that. I think I've got an attention to detail that most people probably don't have. And the knowledge I have I study extensively. There was a few times that I would go to the same grocery store and it turns out that the they found out about them. But really, most of the even if the cashier they usually give it back to you. Over the two years that I probably only had maybe three or four cashiers turn me down, and I was spending thousands Luckily for me, they only had, I think, like, 12 So I was pretty good about There was a be-on-the-lookout breaking a bill at a specific store. They didn't know my name, The Secret Service has the capability of kind of building cases on people, but as far as local police, I mean, they can't really do Knoxville has a lot of Basically, drugs are more than they are in Detroit or so a lot of people kind of to sell their drugs you can get a brick in and then cut it and go sell it for $100,000 in Knoxville. I was addicted to drugs at the time, so a lot of it was buying A few dealers I was honest &quot;This is what I do.&quot; And I ended up selling some bills to a drug dealer from Cleveland, but there was a couple from these people with And the guy that actually I probably got him for close to $10,000 over about a month's period. And he said that it was raining one day and one of my bills got wet and the color-shifting makeup smeared off. So he found out that they were fake. He was just kind of impressed and wanted to start buying them from me. These people would drive to buy a brick of heroin, and they would mix in $5,000 when they went to their city to re-up. All different stores have of detecting counterfeit bills, and a lot of the big retailers just use the counterfeit pens. So they typically just mark the bill, and then if it marks If someone's buying a real that's probably more reason Like, looking for the holding the bill up to the light helps. Really, the best way to is putting it in a bill validator. This is the more modern If you hold the bill at a the ink turns from a It's used with magnetic ink, so if you fold the bill in you can actually lift it There's enough magnetism to actually lift the bill up off the table. So, some cashiers will scratch the shirt to feel a kind of rigid The bills are printed on an intaglio press that kind of raises the which gives it a certain type of texture. Bills are really hard. There's kind of a real Well, yeah, there is a smell to money, and my bills, I've had a couple people, if I sprayed the matte lacquer too soon to spending it, a couple people would complain of a smell. I mean, they always accepted the bills because really, every security feature that a cashier would So even if they were kind of suspicious or even brought up they still accepted it because to believe it was counterfeit. It was 2019. The dealer from Cleveland, He either got caught with my and it didn't take him And then from there, the Secret Service raided my hotel room. I was in the process of printing when they kicked the door in, so they found computers and printers, and I think I had, like, that I tried to flush down the toilet. They pretty much caught me I was basically looking but the Secret Service came to me and basically said that if I pleaded guilty and showed them how I did everything, then they wouldn't charge and they would give me cooperation credit and they'd keep my restitution So, with the cooperation, that got reduced to 10 to 16 months. The maximum sentence is 20 years. I think white-collar criminals I mean, I deserved to go to prison. I was lucky with the amount It got me sober. Really, it was for the There are organizations in other countries that have taken a liking It's obviously extremely profitable, and I've heard that a lot of counterfeits come out of Lima and Medellin. I've seen some bills South America, but the I didn't think. It's criminal organizations And just from my experience, people who are in the drug trade, obviously, they're opportunists. If there's a way to make from my experience, they'll do it. There's a &quot;supernote,&quot; they say, most likely coming out of North Korea produced by the North Korean government, that is indistinguishable It supposedly has not only but all of them done pretty flawlessly. I started counterfeiting I read &quot;The Art of Making Money,&quot; a book about Art Williams, who was a counterfeiter up in Chicago. And that kind of gave but everything else was The bills weren't super sophisticated, but they were good enough to sell. A friend of mine's dad was kind of a connected guy in Tampa, but then my friend overdosed and died. I basically just stopped doing it. You know, at that point I And of course, when I it's all because of just a that kind of, you know, for any ways to make quick money. I don't think there will ever be a way to prevent counterfeiting. Even if it goes digital, there's still ways of like, a person I know was The million or so dollars that I had made over my career hasn't impacted the But maybe on the local level, it might make people lose trust in cash. In fact, a lot of stores in Knoxville don't accept $100 bills anymore. They've got little signs and certain stores that I frequented. Obviously, this whole situation kind of flipped my life upside down. I'm sure it wasn't easy on my kids. I had to go to prison. My wife and I are now separated. So, I mean, it's been rough on all of us. Now I am the production manager at a printing and graphics So, yeah, still printing, just not, nothing illegal. My name is Stephen Gillen. It was estimated that I stole over $5 million worth of high-value goods as the leader of an This is how crime works. Our burglary gang would always but that is to control the situation. The emphasis is not to hurt people but to command dominance without any fuss or unnecessary violence. I was operating in the all around the greater London My first introduction to the gang was just people that we hung out with and grew up with, pretty much. Burglary gangs pretty much They may have gone to school together, or they know each other's brothers, or they would've worked with each other in another form of organized crime. This is the way our gang was formed. I was a leader of a gang of You would have the lookout who would drop us off. You'd have the muscle. He And then you'd have He would also bring a lot of information. And then you'd have someone there who was always really savvy There were a couple of times It's the nature of this game. Many times we would not want because we would be able to replay that and execute what had to be done anyway. But on rare occasions, if we needed another body, as it were, there were always a selection Scouting for properties The properties the gang would target, one would be ones that we were sent to with specific information, usually knowing there was Others, there would be They would be watched. Information could be from and just other people I think all this posting and showing of wealth on social media, where people live, what is very, very dangerous. It was different back but I know now a lot of really high-end burglary gangs that specifically go onto the internet, and that's where they get their targeting. Kim Kardashian is a name. They're very susceptible and it was very easy even to pick the time when to go to the properties because they'd be posting and or, &quot;I'm away at Switzerland A burglar decodes a target First thing he's looking at is going to be the weakest part of the building. Houses which are semidetached, houses that are on the corner of the road or have a lot of shrubbery People going there in or a worker or whatever. This is so if anyone's or watching or passing in the car, they look like they have every A great deterrent -- it's is that places would have a new alarm. Dogs is another one. When they see obstacles like this, they're more likely to move Or again, you'd come aware But no, there have been times -- it's very easy to get a nice bit of meat, put loads of Valium or whatever in it, and sling it over the fence or The best time for the really varies, which and the location are very, very important. Commercials were generally more at night, just because of during the day there'd be a lot of people in these units. Smashing glass is not just And if you're climbing through glass, then you have a big percentage and all these kind of samples. It wouldn't be our preferred entry point. Overpowering or circumventing is something a burglary They'd look at ways to get around that. In them days for us, security codes in residential properties would usually have four or five numbers. So there were technologies that we had that could plug into that and then you had safes, and there was different or in some cases, like the old days, people would even blow We would be looking to do So it was basically about and getting through that We had other techniques which was a building foam which we could put into an alarm system that would harden so the bell but then we'd have to do the same on the internal alarm system. Other ways into a building, it's the understanding of It's usually, if it's not sensor-led, you would know it would be So sometimes we would just chop the whole bottom of the door off and pull that in the bottom out. The alarms wouldn't trigger, and that would give us the to get to the internal Our gang wouldn't necessarily target homes or commercial properties but sometimes we did. Our burglary gang would always Not having weapons like guns, but that is to control the situation. The emphasis is not to hurt people, but to command dominance without any fuss or unnecessary violence. People would always comply because we was very The places people would hide items, usually they're just out or in a cupboard or in a jewelry box. A lot of other times Sometimes the safe is open. We have found some of this stuff in the most unbelievable places. In the back of cupboards, in the back of drawers, even One of the most successful me and the gang, was a commercial that had a lot of really It had alarms. It was in Central London. It was a very, very busy location. We had been given On this job, we left two people outside on the road as lookout. So only two of us went I was one of them. Once we got through the outer doors and into the courtyard, there was only a really, But we put the foam into the alarm. We started wrapping up the stuff. We had someone out there, and we loaded that van very, very quickly. That was taken then to what and the slaughter was where and then moved on to the buyer. Getting rid of the proceeds of a burglary is one of the most risky times, but sometimes we would be I remember once we had a stamp collection which had come out safe. Because of the rarity and the misprints on some of these stamps, which was what made them it was very hard to Their great value translated which we had to take. We had very key influential who would break up the stones, who would weigh the gold, who would be able to move any amount of jewelry on very quickly. We had other people who They would act as middlemen. The paintings guys, they And I had a couple of people and it was very specialized, and they would usually always The retail price of or antiques is greatly diminished by the time it goes to the black market. If you had a 50-grand diamond, you'd more than likely With gold, you would get a There were many times I had paintings worth hundreds of thousands. You'd be lucky to get a few thousand for some of these paintings. I think the market in stolen is pretty much the same. There is a tendency now to go for a lot of high-performance cars because they can be and there's a lot of The gang always broke down Whoever was involved and depending on how they had in any given job. Some would fund the lifestyle of drugs and parties and going out. Others, it would be cars Sometimes the money was definitely used to invest in the next or even to pay off someone who was giving us new quality information. Our burglary gang was independent. We didn't have to kick Everyone was part of a wider In my time, London's underworld, its organized-crime circles but loosely affiliated. There were some corrupt officials and corrupt police officers to get damaging paperwork Due to the crimes I was My further sentences relate to organized crime. I was at a Category A prison. Many people talk about crimes they missed, other and can be revisited or done again. It was an education, Sometimes you come across clever guys who would tell and locks, which could be applied. I first met Charles Bronson because of our level of security category within the prison system. Charles Bronson was a He was an amazing He was a very, very funny man, and he could switch at any time. He had to be managed very, very carefully. I never had a problem with him. I think sometimes long sentences are a deterrent. It's more about the and the conditioning. These people need more opportunity, and they need to be and the right role models. In the UK, sadly, home invasion burglaries have been on a steady I don't think police to respond to nonviolent crimes. In many ways, these of urgency, and of course, alarm systems are so much more sophisticated now. Everywhere is covered by cameras, drones, directional mics, all of tracking criminals. This has led many criminals and more faceless areas of crime. I was released from prison which was possession So many years had passed, of the burglary gang from It's not conducive to Everyone around you suffers, and I knew I needed to change my life, but everyone around me was and I went on to, to work Within 18 months, I went from laborer to supervisor to running my own contracts to starting my own business. I am CEO, cofounder of Raw which is a brand development TV and film digital agency. I was born in England, but as a six-month, 3-year-old and left there in the middle It was a normal occurrence to hear the bombs and guns. I was brought up in an environment of fear, constant violence. My surrogate mother died of cancer when I was 9 to England and London, I had a succession of children's homes and foster homes where the basic Some of them was quite brutal. But there was a lot of above me about what to do, and that was the start I'd have guns and the around me from the ages of 15, 16. I was exposed to that very quickly. From that point on, it was very much a grooming They saw, here's one we who can be sent out there. Here's one who I see myself in that's going to be useful to us. And so it translates up the ladder.