So, a few months ago I released a video all to get you into my life" by the Beatles. That came about because I have their greatest song. I was looking at the credits one day and noticed Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band", which It turns out, there's a reason for that, Today I want to talk about the rest of the it's just as crazy where some of these other Hits" album. This tells us a lot about Earth Wind and Fire, Even when they're surrounded by utter garbage, song after incredible song. Seriously, September was a filler song that As a musician and DJ, I have played this song context around when it was released, I have It's the perfect encapsulation of Earth Man, if I had $5 for every time I've played oh wait... I do. Or I did... I guess I spent it. Before we can talk about that, we need to involved in. By 1975, Earth Wind and Fire was an established hit songs, etc. They were a big deal. Then came the movie "That's The Way of by Sig Shore, the same guy who had done the a soundtrack by Curtis Mayfield. Sig asked Earth Wind and Fire if they'd the way of the world" Now, just a few years earlier, in 1971, Earth for another blaxpoitation movie, Sweet Sweetback's That's 2 A's at the beginning, and 5 S's. Earth Wind and Fire was relatively unknown with this soundtrack. It sounds different than what you would normally Take a listen You may not have heard of it, but this movie Film Registry. So, back to "That's the way of the world" and Super Fly was a big hit, especially for So This new movie was a no-brainer. Earth Wind and Fire goes, "yeah we'll IN THE MOVIE" That's not an exact quote, but it's true. "That's the way of the world" is a movie and a band trying to get big. The band in the movie is Earth Wind and Fire. So, imagine "That Thing You Do", but add But make it worse. I think you know where this is going. Earth Wind and Fire saw the final cut of the no, this is terrible" (again, not an exact album before the movie came out. And it's a good thing they did, because songs, "That's the way of the world", of which are on this Best of Album from 1978. And yes, before I get comments from someone Shining Star are on the live album "Gratitude" "That's the way of the world" is the ended up on the Best of album. The point is, in a few short years you can They were first part of a good movie in 1971, rolls around in 1975, they've honed their out an excellent soundtrack, even though the And then that happens AGAIN with the Sgt Pepper Fast forward a couple years to 1978. Imagine you're Earth Wind and Fire and you Best of albums make a ton of sense in 1978 NOW you'd be like, "just make me a playlist" of album is essentially a playlist. That you buy. So you can listen to just the hits, without Which songs do you put on this best of album? [In Character]: Well, "that's the way though the movie tanked, so we need a few grab a couple from other albums... oh, don't movie, remember that guys? Oh man, that was bad, good thing there's we can't get into that now, but that was LOL (POINT) That's not an exact quote either, but what's "How many songs we at guys? Uh shoot, 8? 9? We gotta have at least 10. What's that? A new single? But it's not a hit yet...A filler song? LOL, okay" "Alright, whatchu got? September? What, we're just doing songs about months LOL Maurice - Alright whatever, it's pretty album, even though we've never released LOL" That's not how the conversation went, but It's a previously unreleased song on their their greatest hit. Also known as the GREATEST FILLER SONG OF And here is where we get to Earth Wind and September was written by Earth Wind and Fire Allee Williams. Allee Williams wasn't in Earth Wind and own. Seriously, look her up. We're talking not only EWF, but Patti Labelle, Cop, The COLOR PURPLE, and the Friends theme She's crazy. Anyway, she has an amazing quote that perfectly While writing the song together, she hated begged Maurice White to changed it, stating, "I just said, 'what the f*** does 'bad-dee-ya' f*** cares?' I learned my greatest lesson ever in songwriting in the way of the groove" Here's why I love this so much. Earth Wind and Fire CANNOT be stopped. In 1978 They've done the soundtrack for released several albums, had hits, etc. Then they do the movie, "that's the way know it, and they go, eh, whatever, release That album is FIRE (and earth, and wind). It's a number one album, and one of their Then they say yes to doing this Sgt Pepper Which makes sense on paper, but the execution The movie is bad, and the soundtrack is worse. Except for their cover of got to get you into They managed to actually make that song BETTER, is the only good thing to come out of a movie. They make their own albums and they're great, movies, and THEY'RE STILL GREAT. And then they need another song for their They just go "the words don't even matter, Ba-dee ya. It's about the groove, lady. They know that they can't be stopped, and There's even a mistake in the intro, and September is too good. Verdine White, the bass player - listen closely playing on the intro of September. Literally DOES NOT MATTER Rolling stone - 65th best song of all time, every single American wedding. LEGALLY. I think. Let me verify, but I feel like that's right. The truth is, September DID take several months today. I'm not saying they phoned it in or were What I'm saying is that Earth Wind and Fire songs, no matter the surrounding circumstances. Everything they touch is GOLD, or sorry, Platinum. Actually, in this case, 6x Platinum. Their albums, 2 different bad movies, a casual all fantastic. LOL indeed. For more, check out the rest of my channel, Drop a comment and says what's up! I'll drop a link in the description to my of "Got to get you into my life " Thanks one.