Hi I'm Robert Cassard, GuitarDiscoveries.com. have to. so I've been doing a series about taught me. and so far I've honored James now because I'm a singer-songwriter myself I've got other artists I want to add is all about Jim Croce. now I haven't so I was assuming he's overlooked or forgotten... million monthly listeners on Spotify. that's over James Taylor. I mean wow! clearly Jim brought movement of the early '70s that people still share the three most important things Jim Croce all right real quick, before I dive make sure you're subscribed, definitely leave a and so more people will find these videos that I appreciate it. all right, James Joseph Croce, born South Philly and raised just a few miles west of folk and rock singer-songwriter who released five and 73.&quot; so that sounds like an 8-year career, 8 years, Jim was largely unknown. I mean solo album called Facets came out in 1966. it if you give it a listen. but the story goes that wedding gift to him and his new wife, the former to be spent to make an album. Now apparently they for a more sensible career in Psychology which he managed to press 500 copies. now I totally called Over The Line, was a similar story right? financed with the help of my father, who expected hoped that my album would flop too, and teach guess what? Jim sold every copy in about a week. keep him going in music. Randall and I had a were at the University of Michigan. I was playing big name artists. and that constant gigging helped a few months, we'd paid my dad back with interest he and Ingrid move to New York City, and they Villanova alumnus Tommy West. and he helps and they record an album called Jim and Ingrid a cross between Ian and Sylvia and Peter, Paul and years trying to promote the album, but eventually bust. I mean, they're forced to sell &quot;all but one move out of the city, back to rural Pennsylvania, has to take odd jobs, and that includes truck etc. now in hindsight, we know Jim will eventually the interesting characters he met along the way, in his story songs. but at the time, he's just career timeline, we're already (5) years into but no traction. Time marches on and the Croces at a radio station. he's not a DJ, he's actually more groovy. so he's very much on the fringe of Joe Salviuolo, steps in. now Joe has been a talented guitarist and singer-songwriter named gets Jim and Maury together. fateful introduction, musical soulmates right? Maury's just releasing him up. so Jim gets back in the music business all that while Jim keeps writing original '71. Cashman and West have helped Jim record an and by this time Jim's got a backlog of originals demo enough to finance recording a full LP -- official album called You Don't Mess Around with Factory in New York. the budget is just $18,000, the studio time and all the musicians. but now great, so it should take no imagination for any A magic of Jim Croce right? but... he's kind of an rock star. so get this the finished album gets after label. somewhere in the neighborhood of 40 and then finally, a promoter at ABC Records, a guy loves it, and tells the label head Jay Kupps knows the songs are going to sell Jim signs a three-album deal with ABC Records. of his 8-year music career by this time. and that Good Story. now I remember the first time I heard Michigan with my mom and dad, and over the radio blues, but with kind of a tight acoustic lead guitar. and by the time it and I hear the words &quot;you don't tug on the wind. you don't pull the mask off the ol' I'm like, wow, even as a pre-teen, I know that it. she used to say, &quot;that Jim Croce is so Big Jim's been taken down by the pool-shooting story told in a clever way with a surprise twist now what I didn't know, was that Jim Croce and his way of telling a story was making I mean think of his other story song characters that stock car boy, he's too much an extra pack of cigarettes rolled up in his and then there's some that Speedball Tucker. there's the guy who in love with a roller derby queen and of course the hapless deadbeat one of my favorites. so back to You Don't out in October and also made the top 20. and it and it really grabbed me and inspired me to buy That's Not the Way it Feels. I mean, pretty a dialogue with a telephone operator helping Jim in LA with his &quot;best old ex-friend Ray.&quot; and by been like a therapy session right? &quot;forget about little details that humanize his songs and make there's another key reason Operator was such an Lesson Number 2: Share the Glory. so in the case and sharing the spotlight with Jim's musical I've talked about this in other videos: the magic work together, playing complementary parts. you Lead. Duos like Cat Stevens on rhythm guitar on rhythm and Red Shea on lead, or John Denver on Croce and Muehleisen might just be the best duo of playing first-position chords and then Maury plays that unforgettable a capo at the fifth fret, so he's using D hand I mean that second guitar is so core to the the guitar part on Van Morrison's Brown-Eyed McCracken. you just can't separate the song from songs. so Croce and Muehleisen make everything their parts either Rhythm or Lead, it's obvious were accomplished guitarists with lots of subtlety guitar fills as responses. they're almost like the a brilliant song and a brilliant way to arrange the Glory? most people don't realize that Cashman Maury Muehleisen, not Jim Croce. they actually Gingerbreadd. came out on Capitol Records in 1970. play backup guitar and sing harmonies. and they MAURY'S album. that's actually how Jim got back and the sophistication of Maury's songs influenced between these guys. both of them were so mutually agreed to go wherever their individual or combined for that year-and-a-half, and then once Jim's for what also turned out to be 18 months. they two voices. truly a 50/50 collaboration, and wow, Don't Mess Around with Jim spawned two singles January '73, Jim releases album Number Four: Grammys. now the album opener and first single Jim plays strummed rhythm, straight-ahead, key both know, we've long run out of things to say excited when you hear that slamming door, cuz floor in the morning. so it's a great song as lead part. we've been running away from, something and I think I'd better go. it's just so perfect the lead guitar right up front with the and that means that during recording, including the solo. so it's not improvised say. so it's really part of the song, and he all right, Life and Times' second single was a everywhere in 73, and and really throughout and we got constant requests for every gig. I mean bars, restaurants, weddings, Bar everyone wanted Bad Bad Leroy Brown. and everyone jumped to their feet to dance. so it's just verses and choruses, no bridge. but another the baddest part of town, and if you go down there so only 6 months after Life and Times, summer 73, recording another LP, I Got a Name. and it'll be everything will literally come crashing down on tour plane crashed in Louisiana. and it took manager and booking agent, their road manager, years old at the time. big fan, in the thick of and playing and studying Croce tunes and lyrics, just a gut punch. Jim and Maury both gone. it Name was scheduled for release the day after the surrounding Jim's death, I wasn't surprised when it's one of the few songs Jim didn't write. it and recorded it to honor his father. he had said his first success. now speaking of fathers, one of born in 71. he's alive and well, carries on already 10 albums into his career, and he has see me and you just But ometimes he plays done these 50th Anniversary Croce plays Croce all right, finally Jim Croce Lesson Number 3: working-class personas in the blues-based but a lot of Jim's best-loved songs are his his star rose higher than ever that ultimately became classics. it was the just a few weeks after he died, that became I'll Have to Say I Love You in a Song also reached of Croce rhythm guitar and Muehleisen lead. so and then Maury's companion part is so delicate and interesting. so it's played so simple and beautiful like other Croce songs, there's no bridge, of my favorite acoustic guitar solos. perfection. it's actually played on a nylon so the first time I heard this song and those cuz I knew Jim and Maury were gone and that acoustic interplay. I remember thinking that, lost in that crash, cuz there were a few weeks Jim and I Got a Name held the number one and came late in Jim's life -- year 7 of his 8-year life was already over. okay quick recap, three Story. take the time to craft your lyrics into itself. Jim just bent the blues a little to write you know remember songs like You Don't Mess Around and choruses, no bridges or middle eights needed. musical collaboration like the one Jim had with two guitars, and the sum was always greater than Balance the Hard and Soft. you know Jim's but then his ballads became his biggest hits. with music despite the struggles and for making before you go, remember to click Like, subscribe, music means to you, and tell me who else I should video with other Croce fans. I also hope you'll totally free and you'll find hundreds of your favorite musical artists, and other music