Horizon So aptly named. Both for it's majesty... ...and it's grand power. 250,000 years ago... ...one race united the entire galaxy, for the first time, in peace. But there is always the separatist... ...one who will not join the whole. The Arioui... ...a race of beings unlike any ...sought to lay waste to the ...to rebuild it anew. They were cunning. One-by-one, they turned the galaxy against it's protectors. And when the races of the Great to destroying the the Arioui secretly constructed Comansour Hasaht, incoming gateway request. From who? Preyopt Janyo. Our last defenses on Iconia have fallen. They'll have taken the And there's something else. I saw an Arioui leading enemy troops. Did the refugee transports make it off Iconia? I think one, but I can't be sure. All the more reason to complete our mission. We'll find a way to survive. We always do. We have to move the weapon to a safe location. I know you disagree. - I didn't say that. You know better than anyone that - The council made the decision. We spent our entire lives, entire millenia, devoted to protecting life, and the same people that are part of the I don't want to use the Even the thought of using an Arioui But we must save the rest of our people. Gateway protocol complete. We must go to the Horizon and begin preparing. - Shall I open a gateway to the Horizon, Comansour? - I will miss your presence, Alaitah. - Shutdown and prepare your systems for cold storage. Shall we? Report! 22 casualties reported so far, sir! 15 fatal, 7 injuries! Hull plating is down, warp drive is down. We have torpedoes but no phase cannons. Load all torpedo banks. You think the Romulans would They're waiting to make their move, Scan for any E.M. fluctuations or anything - We can't afford to have them get the drop on us. Engineering, report! Bridge, that last hit knocked out the Best I could give you is impulse. Somebody help me get that fire out before How far in-system are we? We're approximately 15 million We're sitting ducks out here. - Captain, what's going on? Friends of yours. Incoming transmission from the Romulans. Let's hear what they have to say. This is Admiral Verak, turn over the fugitive and the Romulan Star Doesn't exactly sound like a generous offer. The fugitive returns with me or dies on your ship! I don't particularly care which. Go to hell! Captain, what can I do? Do detonate the photonic torpedoes remotely? Yes, sir. Amelia, take us into Saturn's ring T'mar, you know the Romulan Help Commander Gates find a way to mask the I don't think I can navigate the ring system. - We don't have a choice. Lieutenant, try to keep them off our backs! How's it going? If we jettison our warp it should blind the Romulan sensors enough so the torpedoes appear as rock fragments. Intruder alert! Take cover! Engineering! Come in! Engineering! Come in! We've got company down here! Get a security team down there now! Help is on the way, but we need you Can you make it to the controls? Cover me! How's it going down there? Just a few more seconds! Somebody get her to sickbay, now! You're supposed to be a good pilot, That's it, drive plasma is released! The Romulans are slowing down, the Now! Come on. They're almost in position. Now! Status? I'm having a hard time getting a reading. Security, I am taking We are pinned down in section B5. Security team is on its way. Hold your position! We're receiving a hail. I'll give you credit, Captain. But you're out of options, and my offer of leniency no longer stands. What about your officers? Acceptable losses. He's charging weapons! Get us out of here! Systems are down all over the ship, Captain, I'm reading another ship. We're receiving a transmission. Captain Archer, your timing couldn't be better. The Romulans are taking heavy damage! T'mar, get us out of here! I can't, the helm isn't responding. The Romulans have gone to warp! Damage report. Where do you want me to start? Any more casualties? Five, sir. Three fatal. Lieutenant Yarris? Section B5 decompressed when we They never made it. Were you successful in No. Her alterations and involvement with the The earth vessel Enterprise - The Enterprise? There was nothing we could do. You cannot allow this fugitive to live I know that! You would do well to remember your place. The fugitive must be stopped at all costs. Do I make myself clear? Yes. Whatever it takes. How's it looking? It's been a lot of work, the Well, I hope it was worth it. Worth it? If it was up to me, I'd Excuse me? - It's just... Is that what we do now? People we don't like, we I just was thinking... I'm going down and see Admiral Gardner. Admiral Gardner. Harrison, at ease. I've been under a lot of pressure - I'm sorry I haven't had time to meet with you until now. Please. You and your crew have been through I wish I could say that it gets easier. No, sir. It doesn't. I've had a number of debriefings She's provided us with what promises Promises to be? She was part of a top She's very highly trained. The surgical alterations were going to allow her to enter Starfleet. And perform recon on our offensive and How do we know that's not That's a fair question, We're keeping an eye on her, if she However, that's not the issue. The issue is the intel that she's brought us. According to T'mar, the Romulans are Two lightyears from earth. The Romulans would never risk I admit, it seems a bit unlikely. But even the Vulcans are worried. They're sending the S'myr to investigate. It's one of their fastest ships. Permission to speak freely, sir? Go ahead! The Vulcans - they advise us, but The Vulcans are as much a member We're all in this together. And if the Vulcans find something, you're sending us back It's looking that way. If what T'mar says is true, we must defend earth at all cost. Yes, sir. I'm sorry, Harrison. I have nothing more. Dismissed. Oh, and Harrison, there is one other thing. This isn't gonna be a popular decision, but if this turns out to be true, T'mar is going to be your new helm We're giving her a commission of lieutenant. She'll be filling Lieutenant Yarris' spot. Computer, begin again. Level 4 Computer, end session. I was just leaving. No wait. I'm sorry! I don't mean to be rude, it's just... it's just... Not easy being in the same room with a Romulan? 17 years ago, when I first my father wanted to teach me a lesson... show me how a Tal'Shiar operative He took me to an interrogation The prisoner had committed treason, I don't remember exactly what the crime was. Afterwards, I had never seen a man so proud. He looked at me with a determination I'd never Not easy being in the same room with a Romulan? Nobody knows that better than me. Ensign, everything okay? Yeah, we were just talking. What are you doing here? I figured I should get into - If we're going to be re-deployed... The same, but I was just leaving. What would you need to Goodbye, sir. You're sure you're alright? I'm fine. I've got to go. Are you coming I'm not sure, I'll be able to Thank you. Hey. Hey, how was the trip? Alright. Is this everybody? I suppose if you wanted to invite Marie, feel free to help yourself to a drink. Now that we're all here... I thought it'd be nice if we took a moment to remember those we've lost, and to share a toast to their memory. Here here. Captain, would you like to say anything? Well... ...it's been hard for me... ...for all of us. Six months on a mission, to bring back T'mar, on a whim that it might change We lost a lot of good people. I'm trying, and honestly I'm but I'm trying to remember And why those good people And I have to hope something Amelia was always good at that. I think if we had ship counselors, they'd talk to her instead of the counselors. She always managed to stay positive. Even in the darkest time. To Lieutenant Yarris. It's funny you mention that, First time we had lunch... It was in her quarters. We were both new to the ship, and I didn't. She decided that we're gonna have and we're gonna become best of friends. She has had a way with people, you know. She was so kind, she wanted What's going on? What do you mean? I know you well enough to know Other than the obvious. It's nothing. Yeah? You know me. We've been friends for a long time. You know how important duty is to me. Starfleet, what we do... So you know I'd be the last person between a C.O. and a subordinate. You and Lieutenant Yarris? It was more than that... Everything Marie said was true. That was Amelia, she was... It wasn't just some fling. You have to understand that. Nineteen years ago... ...before I joined Starfleet... ...I was engaged to a boomer. Her father was ill, so she was gonna take Typical run is four years... ...two way. We had these grand dreams, build our live in space, travel distant worlds... On her last run with her father as They stole all their supplies, They were stranded. Were they ever found? Two years later. Not long after that`s when I joined Starfleet. It was the only way I knew how to ...make them pay. So, did you ever find them? No. I'm sorry... I didn't know that. I haven't told anyone before. It's just that I never thought I Thought you should know. Amelia! Amelia! Move! Find me, Harrison! Save me! We've got to get you to sickbay. You need to find me! What are you talking about? Find me! There's more in stake than you know. Find me! Jackson, come in! Jackson, come in! What is it? I need to see you on the ship right away. So, what do you think? I think it's five in the morning. Some of the results I'm How so? Quantum dating puts the age of that shouldn't happen. Quantum dating doesn't give negative numbers. It's happened before. When? After the first Xindi attack, Captain Archer quantum dated The numbers read in the negative. So? It was from the future. You're saying you think I'm saying... Where did you find it? In a wall... I literally put my hand through a Doesn't happen every day. I knew there was a reason why I had I do my best. I'm not getting anything here. Hawke. Captain. Get down here immediately! Right away, sir. I guess I'm just not getting any sleep tonight. Admiral, Ambassador. What's going on? We're getting telemetry from the S'myr, Five ships, two base structures... I thought you said that this was in the Believe me, I'm just as surprised as you are. I thought I had the most - Apparently not. The S'myr is detecting strong gravimetric most likely from the weapon itself. All encased in a thermobaric cloud Side-effect of the gravimetric distortions? Possibly. How does this weapon work? I don't know. I wasn't given that information. What exactly do you know? All I know is the initial projections, that everyone involved with that it could potentially Obviously this must be stopped at all costs. Enterprise was on it's way out with a Vulcan battle group We've recalled them immediately. We're putting everyone we've got It'll be ready to launch in a week. Sorry put you back out there so Yes, sir. I'll head back to the NX-04 Anything you need - you got it. One week. Thanks, sir. Captain's Log, June 21st, 2160. None of us were ready to be especially for a combat mission. But the crew are handling it well, and if I'm being honest, Better than me. I know I don't want to be and I'm sure they don't either... But they're doing their duty. I couldn't be more proud How's it going? I think we're just about ready down here. It's been moving almost faster we got new antimatter injectors, Rumor is we'll be able to I like the sound of that. If you get a chance check out the armory. Tom's pretty excited about some That's my next stop. Captain, you're gonna love this. What have you got for me. In addition to what we had, four new phase cannon arrays, an extended complement of photon torpedoes, and my personal favorite... Tricobalt torpedoes. Prototypes. Starfleet has barely had time to test them, but the initial results place the yield at Sounds like we'll be able to hold Yes, sir, I believe so. Prototype phase compression rifle. Compression rifle? Yes, sir. It works by literally compressing for a much higher particle thereby increasing the yield up to three I like it. How many do we have? Four, sir. Romulans ought to like that. Keep me posted. I'm going to bridge. I'll be there straight away, sir. Are you getting acclimated? Most helm controls are more or less the same, it's just remembering where everything is. I've been in here for the trying to make sure they get everyting right. Did they? Your crews are very well-trained, Captain, Glad to hear it. Gentlemen. - Captain. Captain, we're receiving a Let's see it. Captain, how are you doing? I'm good, sir...ready to I'm glad to hear it, because I think Care to wish us luck, sir? All the luck in the world, Captain... No pressure. See you in a few days. All hands, this is the captain. We're about to get under way. I know that we're preparing to go but we've done the work and we are ready. Those of you who have been with us, and those of you who are new to the crew... I couldn't be more proud All of you! We have a job to do, now let's get started. Lieutenant T'mar, take us out. Lieutenant, maximum warp. You cannot allow the Coalition to They're bringing a fleet! You said this would not happen! The future is not set in stone, I can only read significant When will you be ready to fire? The weapon is nearly finished, but I You must hold this location. The future of the Romulan people Do not forget that. How you get along with the crew? Well enough. Ensign Sutherland seems intimidated by me, but she appears to be open minded, we've spoken a few times. I'm glad to hear it. The rest will come around. What we're about to go into, this mission... it will almost certainly require I need to know you're prepared Even against your own people. Captain, I am fully committed I wouldn't be here if I wasn't. There's still one thing I don't understand. Why are you so committed to helping us? I've had... ...doubts, about my people's ways. I buried them for a long time. But when I first saw myself I realized what I alone represented. The annihilation of another people... ...for no reason. I doubt I'm the first to want to change, but I'm the first to step out It took the same effort from a few I just hope my people can learn from Me too. Did you see that? What? That! We're experiencing extreme What about the rest of the fleet? Vulcans are reporting damage The Enterprise is reporting We can't keep this up! Are you seeing this? Am I seeing what? The thermobaric cloud barrier has since the Vulcans first I'm picking up gravimetric I've never seen this on any star charts. That's because it wasn't here before. The Masar was just hit by an extreme Do they need assistance? They sustained heavy damage and casualities. They're withdrawing to earth. We're entering the thermobaric cloud barrier. Things are gonna get a bit bumpy. All hands, brace for impact. Captain, I'm picking What is it? There's a clearing ahead, Can we get a look at it? Here we go! Open up a channel to the battle group. This is Captain Hawke, the starbase Three more ships coming Open fire! Photonic torpedoes Captain, if you like trying something crazy? What have you got? It's on your screen. I always like crazy. Discovery to fleet. Prepare to Engineering, we need all Take it from life support if you have to! You've got it! Lieutenant, be ready! Now! Two down, one to go. Come about! They're retreating, joining Hawke to all ships, form up. The Coalition ships are here! If they break through our main lines Then you must activate the weapon now. It isn't ready. It is your only choice, the fate Admiral Verak to control center. Begin the activation sequence. Captain, I'm detecting an energy buildup - The weapon? I thought it wasn't ready? I thought it wasn't! Put it onscreen. Hawke to all ships. When we enter the clearing we need We need you to cover us. All ships report ready, sir. Lieutenant, load the tricobalt torpedoes. We need to see if these weapons Ready. Here we go! Status? Almost there! Captain, we're receiving a transmission from Tell them to hold out as long as they can! It's too late. We're in range! Fire at will! We're barely making a dent in their shields! Magnify the top of the starbase. I don't know about you but that Captain, the Vulcan flagship is sustaining Tell Enterprise we can handle this, Lock onto those coordinates, Fire! Report? Massive secondary explosions. I think we did... Jackson! I'm reading a massive gravimetric distortion T'mar, get us out of here! Engines are at maximum, We're being pulled in! Are the Vulcans still out there? Can't get get a read on anything! If we're going to do something we'd better... I've lost control of the helm. Everybody out! Now! Engineering to bridge. Hull plating is gone, we have This is the captain, all hands abandon ship. I repeat, all hands abandon ship! Comm is down! Systems are coming back online. - Brooks to bridge. The distortions appear to have stopped. Let me know what you find out. Tom, the Romulans? They're not there. What do you mean they're not there? They're just gone. There are no There is something out there. Captain, maybe the better question is: I belive Ensign Sutherland is correct. But these readings can't be right. I'm also not recognizing any of these star Wherever we are, it's in a star cluster that - How's that possible? Jackson? I don't know either. The best I can tell is that we were As to how we survived it or What about this system? There's a G-class star and the planet. The planet is M-class, no life signs. Aside from the fact that this monument it's also sitting on a huge power source. Captain, I recommend that we take a team We will, but first... Jackson, I want a status report. I want to know what happened. Tom, I want to know what weapons I want to know what's on that planet. We have to assume that And I'm not leaving this ship until Briefing in one hour. I know we're fresh out of spacedock, We blew out EPS relays across the ship, grav plating is down on G-deck, hull breaches on E and F, I may be able to get us operational in 5 days. But that is bare minimum. We don't have 5 days, we need Does it really matter? I may have something on that. I've been analyzing the star I was finally able to get a My God! That is the Milky Way galaxy. How is that even possible? I'm not sure. Tom, have you heard anything about malfunctions They're experimental, still in testing, Why? When they impacted with the Romulan station, they had an unintended side effect. From what I can tell, the warheads actually many times over by the extreme gravimetric So the subspace tear transported us Why here? There is one thing the Romulan weapon Unusually high gravimetric distortions. So you're saying that the Romulan weapon It could just be a fluke, but it Right now it's all we've got. How are we on transporters? I can try to have them back online in a day. T'mar, I want to take a shuttle to the surface. I wouldn't recommend that, Captain. The atmosphere is saturated There's a strong possibility the gas could How strong a possibility? I'd rather not try it unless we have to. Alright. Jackson, Marie. we'll head down to the surface Sir? We might need your language skills if there's anything on the Yes, sir. Captain, I may not be able to bring a shuttle How so? If this is a Romulan weapon I'd advise against that. Commander. Look where we are, you can't tell That's enough, Commander. T'mar, I'll need you back here on the ship. Dismissed! Commander. We have to resolve this, now. Excuse me? Whatever problems you have with me. We aren't gonna be able to get through What is your problem with me? I have repairs to make. Captain, everthing allright? Chief More - yes, thank you! Everything's fine. How is it in engineering? Good, sir. Great. Keep up the good work. Carry on. Yes, sir. Captain, what are you doing down here? Trying to make myself useful. Don't worry about that, I got people on this. Yeah, but they won't be by until morning. I thought I'd get a head start. Not bad. I should have you added to my staff. I'll put in a request to Admiral Hey, can I ask you a question as a friend? Yeah, what is it? I'm pretty sure that most people on But it really seems to be eating you up. Deneva Colony... What about it? My girlfriend was aboard NX-03 I'm sorry, I didn't know. I was gonna propose, I knew she'd say yes. We've been talking about it for some time. I knew it'd be a problem with I just assumed one of us were You know, if things were going you'd have a different chief engineer. I'm sorry, Francis. It wasn't in your file, I didn't know. Just trying to keep it a secret. If it's any consolation, I know how you feel. A long time ago, someone I loved was killed. And for a long time... I dedicated myself to finding those who did it. Did you? I wish I hadn't. It was as if my life fell away, and in a single moment I betrayed Everything I thought humanity should be. I've tried very hard to remain But who we are and what we are we should never lose that! I'll try my best. I'd better get back to work. Well, we're in one piece. I guess my fixes worked. Pretty soon I'll be out of a job. These readings are... What? There's enough energy running underneath this What could provide that type of power? I have no idea. Marie! Come take a look at this. Can you quantum date the structure? Yeah... second. Quantum dating puts this 250,000 years old. Interesting. There's a repeating pattern to these symbols. Maybe some sort of numerical system. I think this is a tri-modal syntax I got it! Reem'tar. - Horizon. You've been scanned to determine basic including language structure so the importance of this message This monument is built not to but to our failure. It is here that my wife and I, the last of our kind that we knew of, lived our final days. As we did, you stand on a the ultimate antithesis of what Where we sought to protect life, the Arioui sought to turn to destroy and take for their own. We wasted what little time we had left on trying to turn their weapon against them. We should have removed this place from I just wish my wife were here with me now. Perhaps we will meet again, at the edge of the universe. One can hope. Well, that was ominous. The structure must have been hidden in Sir, do you really think this is a good idea? Do you have a better one, Ensign? I agree, sir. Just because we don't have a better We have no idea what Do you show anything on your scans? No, sir. Discovery, we've found a large structure. We're going in to investigate. Yes, sir. It just appeared on scanners. Hawke to Discovery. Discovery, come in. Jackson! I don't know! I've never The lift removes temporal anomalies. It can be... unsetteling. Try them again. Channel open. Captain Hawke, this is Discovery. Do you copy? Captain, come in! Close the channel. How long ago 30 minutes now. Maybe we should take a team to I agree, sir. So happened to them could happen to you. We need to find a way to recon the situation. Yeah, and how can we do that? We'll think of something! Oh really? Just like that? Wait, I'm receiving a transmission. Audio only. Let's hear it. Commander Brooks, nice to Who am I speaking with? I'm going to dismiss with the rest of the formalities, I have your captain, comm If you make any attempt to rescue I will kill them and then destroy your ship. - Commander. I would wager that he's going to kill them Have you gotten any scans on the interior Some, it's massive, but if we can get a transporter lock on the Good. I'll work on boosting Tom, you have the bridge. Glad to see I didn't forget Who are you? My name is Daekon. Are you responsible for the Romulan weapon? Have a guess, Captain. I think there's too much lining You are in vast need of a Computer, open your outer hatches. What is this place? Horizon. So aptly named. Both for it's majesty... ...and it's grand power. The Arioui, a race of beings unlike constructed this world, a weapon, over 250,000 years ago. They fully intended to mop up the remains At the last second, the Iconians moved The Horizon... lost to all of history... ...until now. The hologram at the monument, was the Iconians? His name was Commansour Hasaht. Their end was somewhat poetic, actually. While attempting to reprogram they missed a hidden protocol in the code. The drones turned on them and killed them. A mistake I was careful not to repeat. So, you gave me a reality check, but why are you doing this? Your vessel, your crew. How did you find this place? We're here by mistake. I believe you. So what now? Now, I suppose you can stay and watch. Watch what? I want you to know what it feels like What? In the 24th century, Romulus was destroyed. All while the Federation Now what few of us are left are The 24th century? This is the 28th century. And it is here where you will watch That is the only reason you are still alive. I've boosted the sensors as much and with a stroke of luck, several large hatches opened which allowed From what I can tell the structure is massive. It protrudes into underground caverns. Any luck locating our people? 3 human lifesigns, in the underground chambers. But there are extensive metal Which is going to make it nearly - What if we try something else? Low risk, we try to beam down If we can't get them out directly, Let's do it. Harrison. Find me. Hello? Is there somebody there? Discovery, come in. Discovery! Captain, you there? - Yes, is everything alright up there? We're going to get you out of there, but can't Can you get me a scanner and a weapon? Hold on, sir. Tom, I'd like some more firepower just incase. Can you send me one of those phase And an extra phase pistol. Yes, sir. I'm getting an energy What is it? It looks like some sort of objects are Put it up. They look like attack drones. I'd say that's exactly what they are. Tactical alert, load photonic torpedoes. Stand back! It's good to see you. You too. I guess yours wasn't as nice as mine. What are you talking about? Nothing. Let's go get Marie. T'mar, you think we can make I can try. Hawke to Discovery. I've found Jackson and Marie. We're going to try to get If you don't hear from me in ten minutes, I'm not gonna leave you down there! That's an order, Commander! Captain! I think I found a way out of here! Well what is it? Just down that corridor is some It's the best we've got. I'll cover you. Go! Any time! Discovery, can you get a lock on us? Not yet, there's still interference, you We'll do our best. Can't this thing go any faster? This isn't exactly a starship! Did you get them? Commander? I got them, they're safe and sound. I don't know about sound. Oh God, come on! How is she? Doc says he doesn't know if she'll make it. I wish we had more time to worry about Marie, but we have to deal with Daekon. Jackson, have you informed Yes, sir. T'mar, what do you think about this? I've never even heard of Daekon. And I'm as clueless as you are. I'm guessing any information about 28th century is highly restricted I figured as much... We have to put a stop to this. Where are we with weapons and hull plating? I can give you phase cannons or Most I can give you on hull Captain, if you're considering a frontal assault, From the scans I took of the structure And even if our weapons I'm not sure we'd be able Captain. Why hasn't Daekon just destroyed I think I can answer that. From what I can tell, the weapon It seems the gravimetric distortions are and since we got here they've dropped off I don't think it can simply Well, at least we'll have a warning But we can't count on it. You all know the severity of the situation. We've been through a lot Hell, the last six months. Get some rest, we need you clear-headed. Dismissed! Harrison! Harrison! Find me, Harrison! Save me! Find me, Harrison! We gotta get you to sickbay. You must protect the timeline! Protect the timeline! Find me, Harrison! There's more in stake than you know. Find me! Amelia! Hey! How? We gotta get you to sickbay. No, I'll be fine. We have a lot to talk about. You look... I feel - terrible. Dermal regeneration will Dermal regeneration? There are some things we need to I'm all ears. There's no easy way to say this. Say what? My assignment to Discovery wasn't by chance. Your dreams after you thought I don't really follow. I'm a temporal agent. I'm not from your time. I was sent to Discovery is a major front in the Temporal Cold War. I know it's a lot to take in. So what you're saying is... This ship, crew... us... ...was just an assignment, a job? It started out as an assignment. But you have to know that my time here and and the way that I feel about you... It became so much more than an assignment. So, assuming what you say is true... Why me? Why Discovery? Why not Enterprise! They're the ones that ended Because the Enterprise is too I get it, the ship that has a I wouldn't put it that way. What about the dreams? I encoded them into your subconscious In case anything happened, you'd hopefully be able to activate We're in the 28th century... We were trying to destroy the Romulan weapon, when we got caught in some sort of Romulan weapon? It could have been devestating. The Romulans aren't supposed to have that What is it? I'm sorry if I woke you, sir, but I couldn't sleep. I'll be there right away, besides I've You feel up to taking a walk? Yeah. I think I can manage. I recommend that we keep this What kind of story would you I think we can trust the senior staff. Amelia? Hey! Reports of my death have been How are you here? The section you were in Look, I know you all have We'll explain at the briefing in the morning. So, what do you have for us? I assume you called me down here at Yes. It's not everyday you see a ghost. Francis? Right... We have a theory on how we got here. We know the gravimetric wave concentration which is when the rift formed. We think the distortions from the Romulan essentially acting like a magnet, After studying the subspace tear, the is that the tricobalt devices must that caused them to have In the case of mixing with this we have seen what the side effect is. Do you think you could Well that's what we're hoping for. Whatever's generating the distortions seems but it's just not strong enough to open a rift. Good work, it's a start. Amelia, I want a report on everything you know Briefing in two hours. Yes, sir. Amelia? Whatever is going on, just wanted you to know.. It's good to have you back. Thanks, you know it's really good to be back. I'd better get started. All of this has been classified top secret Until now it has been privy only Amelia. I am from the 31st century. We have technology that allows us to travel through Obviously it was very quickly realized so Temporal Accords were put into place, outlawing the use of the technology for anything There are groups that have broken these accords and seek to bend the timeline to their own will with total disregard for the consequences. The Temporal Cold War. It was officially ended five years ago, and all groups brought to Until recently we have been unable to I believe this man on the surface, Daekon, is the last fugitive from Any questions? I think we can destroy the Horizon by I agree, it's the best way. The good news is that since the I've noticed a significant drop in the strength of the Should be able to transport Good. Tom, I'll be taking you and where we are going to try to overload Francis, I want your people do whatever you have to. If this doesn't work, we'll need everything we Jackson, work with Francis on trying It's me honest, I don't know But we have a job to do. And no matter what... Any questions? Jackson, when we go down to the surface, if for I want you to try to take that tower out Yes, sir. Amelia, Tom! Transporter room in one hour. Dismissed! Have you come to kill me, Captain? I can't allow you to use that weapon. It is not only a weapon, One even unlike what our friend Don't bother denying it. The temporal signature of everyone in Would make sense. Looks like this place Scan the timeline, send a message to the past, change things from afar. What is this? The destruction of Romulus. If a change is implemented over time - a series of small changes - then time ripples outward, affecting the past and the future in waves. But if one tries to change the fabric of space and time fractures, and a new universe is born. What's your point? I've worked a lifetime for this, giving the Romulans of your day just enough All using a technology that even the And even they, for all their intelligence, could'nt sustain their union of peace. And here you are, repeating their mistakes with It is sickening. Allowing your species to become so tainted I will not stand for that, Captain. I cannot stand for that. It is a numbers game. Your people for mine, your union for my empire. It is as simple as that. Discovery, come in. Discovery here, Captain. Carry out your orders. One way or another, this ends here. Where did he go? Francis. Load the photonic torpedoes. Yes, sir. Target the tower. Loaded and ready, sir. T'mar, you think you can handle getting Where is he? He is above us. That can't be good. Power is being shunted to that station. What was that? Gravimetric distortions, lots of them. Keep this heading! This looks similar to an intergravic Can you use it? Yeah, I think so. Jackson! Yeah! You need to destroy this place at all cost! I'm doing my best! The gravimetric Jackson! Discovery, come in! Daekon! It's over! Take cover! The distortions are subsiding. I think we're in some kind of Let's see it. Zoom in. Torpedoes. Ready. Target those things, take them If we're going to do something, You hear that? Sorry about that, Captain. Take Amelia and Tom, I still have Harrison, wait! I can read Romulan. I've a much better chance of See you on the ship Lieutenant. Good luck, Captain. Daekon! You don't have a choice anymore. Either you stop or we'll destroy this place. Do you really want to die alone in the The Iconians held such high but what did it get them? Think about the hologram at the monument. They died on this world. Do you really think they left it To their greatness? If the Iconians had truly they wouldn't have tried to save the most It's building a charge. Two minutes. The Iconian gateway. Impressive! I have to stay here. What? I can overload the power systems, I'll do it. I'm the logical choice, I can read Romulan. I can go through the gate at the last second. But you'll end up God knows where or when. I can find my way back. I'm not new to this. 60 seconds. If you go right now you'll have Discovery! One to beam up. Where's Amelia? She's staying behind. Tricobalt torpedoes. Prepare to fire. Aye, sir. Let's go home. The rift appears to be stable. T'mar? 3,000 meters... The tower is going critical. Aft cameras! Compensating for the distortions this time. Faster! I'm trying. We're almost through, the gravimetric The field is collapsing! Captain, star charts show that But the barometric cloud barrier, the Looks like Amelia might have been succesful. Any ships? Is the Enterprise Scanning. Captain, I'm picking up some transmissions. Faint, narrow band. Let's hear it. Can you clear it up? Working on it. Sir, I have the Enterprise on the sensors. They're running on reserve power, warp engines are down, they're in bad shape. The Vulcans? One Vulcan ship adrift, the Kurok. Set a course for Enterprise. Jackson, open up a communication channel. Discovery to Enterprise. Can you read me? Enterprise, come in. Enterprise here. Enterprise, glad to hear that you're ok. We're sending over repair teams and medical Jackson, coordinate with Francis Yes, sir. Any luck on the transmissions? I think I'm getting it now. What is it? A faint signal from a transponder It's a message being transmitted on loop. I managed to clear it up. Let's hear it. The human Coalition has destroyed the We must not allow this Destroy that transponder, now! If they send their entire fleet, then everything I wish I had a solution. But we're operating in the dark here. I have a meeting with the Vulcans, Word is the Romulans are amassing Will you be deploying us, sir? You did a hell of a job, Harrison. I know practically no one Thank you, sir. It wasn't You handled it well. You and your crew have been an Thank you. If all goes well, a fleet of Vulcan, Andorian, including Discovery and Enterprise It says here you're transferring T'mar? Yes, that's right. The assignment's over. May I make a request, sir? Sure! I'd like to keep T'mar at the helm. Really? Yes, sir. Allright. Thank you. T'mar. You got a second? I'm really not in the frame of mind - so if you... I wanted to say... I regret some of the things Is that all? I'm trying to apologize. So apologize. Sir. Look... I don't know if I'm able to change over night. Or if I'll be able to accept things. I want you to know that I'm trying. And I am sorry for some of the Thank you! Before you say anything, yes it's really me. No implanted dreams or visions. How? I took the Iconian gateway offworld I have no idea where I was, much like you did and I was retrieved All in a day's work. What is it? My superiors don't know I'm here. I can't stay. I needed to let you know that I'm okay. And that I really do care about you. If things were different... I... actually understand. I just wish it didn't have to be this way. Me too. Are things any different in your time? Are we really any better? I can't say too much, I don't want to contaminate But I can tell you that the Coalition of I am actually part Romulan. A small part. But my great-grandfather was Romulan. My grandmother was 1/8th Cardassian... my mother was human... my father was human, more or less. The Federation that Daekon mentioned? It is destined for so much So, we're on the same path as the others? What do you mean? Romulans, Vulcans, humans and Iconians... At our core, are we really any different? I'm sorry, I have to go. If I stay any longer, someone might notice. Will we ever see each other again? I wish I could say that we would. Perhaps we will. At the edge of the universe. I'd like that. One can hope. English subtitles by Andreas Amlinger