Hello my love. Welcome to guided affirmations by Lavendaire. Today, we will be reprogramming our minds with positive affirmations for self love, self esteem, and confidence. Affirmations help create new neural pathways in your brain. Through repeated listening &amp; reciting, these affirmations will help you change your self talk, reinforcing a positive self image and breaking any negative patterns you may have. Listen to this audio every day for 21 days--as your daily morning affirmations, or in the evenings right before you sleep. I will repeat each affirmation twice, and then give you time to repeat after me. Feel free to recite these affirmations in your mind or out loud. I love myself unconditionally. I love myself unconditionally. I am worthy of love and respect. I am worthy of love and respect. I honor and value myself. I am proud of who I am. I am confident in myself and my worth. I embrace what makes me unique. I am strong, brave, and beautiful. In believe in myself completely. I trust myself and my intuition. I accept and embrace myself as I am. I am enough as I am. I am worthy of all the good in my life. I radiate love. I radiate confidence. I am kind to myself and to others. I attract positive and loving relationships. I love and accept myself fully. I believe in my inner strenght. I am capable of greatness. I am proud of how far I've come. I am grateful for my journey and growth. I am beautiful, inside and out. I embrace my flaws and imperfections. I choose to be happy. I trust the process of life. I am confident in my potential. I am loved and cherished. I am worthy of success &amp; happiness. I have everything I need within me to succeed. I choose love over fear. I love and respect myself. I prioritize myself and my wellbeing. I love being my most authentic self. I am radiant and filled with light. I believe in myself. I trust myself. I am ready to thrive as my highest self. I love myself unconditionally. I love myself unconditionally. I am worthy of love and respect. I am worthy of love and respect. I honor and value myself. I honor and value myself. I am proud of who I am. I am proud of who I am. I am confident in myself and my worth. I am confident in myself and my worth. I embrace what makes me unique. I embrace what makes me unique. I am strong, brave, and beautiful. I am strong, brave, and beautiful. I believe in myself completely. I believe in myself completely. I trust myself and my intuition. I trust myself and my intuition. I accept and embrace myself as I am. I accept and embrace myself as I am. I am enough as I am. I am enough as I am. I am worthy of all the good in my life. I am worthy of all the good in my life. I radiate love. I radiate love. I radiate confidence. I radiate confidence. I am kind to myself and to others. I am kind to myself and to others. I attract positive and loving relationships. I attract positive and loving relationships. I love and accept myself fully. I love and accept myself fully. I believe in my inner strength. I believe in my inner strength. I am capable of greatness. I am capable of greatness. I am proud of how far I've come. I am proud of how far I've come. I am grateful for my journey and growth. I am grateful for my journey and growth. I am beautiful, inside and out. I am beautiful, inside and out. I embrace my flaws and imperfections. I embrace my flaws and imperfections. I choose to be happy. I choose to be happy. I trust the process of life. I trust the process of life. I am confident in my potential. I am confident in my potential. I am loved and cherished. I am loved and cherished. I am worthy of success &amp; happiness. I am worthy of success &amp; happiness. I have everything I need within me to succeed. I have everything I need within me to succeed. I choose love over fear. I choose love over fear. I love and respect myself. I love and respect myself. I prioritize myself and my wellbeing. I prioritize myself and my wellbeing. I love being my most authentic self. I love being my most authentic self. I am radiant and filled with light. I am radiant and filled with light. I believe in myself. I trust myself. I believe in myself. I trust myself. I am ready to thrive as my highest self. I am ready to thrive as my highest self. Repeat these affirmations every day, or as you need them, and enjoy the positive changes they bring to your life. Sending you love &amp; light. Namaste.