...says the following: you don't have to a little ball; if you want to know what the on the surface of any ball, no matter how you just tell me what it is in the neighborhood--and is this... The man you just saw speaking is physicist in 1964. I remember watching this in my dorm was bewildered by Feynman's "average on this video, I want to really dive into what we'll develop a deep intuitive understanding in math and physics, and why it shows up in As a heads up, I will assume you have some as you know that we can expand a function Now before we dive in, really quick I want from a few Harvard physics PhD students working of World Quantum Day, they are hosting a Quantum is a contest open to absolutely anyone, regardless Basically, they invite you to create a short using your creativity to explain some aspect entry, you have the chance to win Harvard explore their quantum research facilities research forward. This is a really neat opportunity check out their blog and contest if you're The deadline is May 14, 2024, so good luck Now, to begin our journey on the second derivative, of the first derivative. Essentially, say let's say we have some function f(x), where number line. If we move x a tiny bit away a tiny bit away from f(x0). If then we take in x, you intuitively get the first derivative the limits and whatnot, but this the intuition. us how much f changes when we change x by So what about the second derivative? What that it tells us how the first derivative amount. But...this understanding kind of sucks. tells me about the first derivative, I wanna So...how do we go about trying to intuitively is where we are going to follow Feynman's on a ball" concept he was talking about, Let's say we have some function, and let's to do is look at the points right next to is what a "ball" is in one dimension - it's Now, again trusting Feynman for a moment, next to x_0 are on average greater than or they are both greater, but how do we quantify One way to measure this is by calculating (where I've used this fancy double bracket value of f at x_0. This should tell just how around x_0 are. Take a second to make sure This might seem like a random expression, First, let's calculate the value of this The average of the two values around x0 is then dividing by two. Now, remember that dx inspire us to taylor expand both of these The taylor series of the point to the right series of the point to the left of x_0 can note that the terms with an odd power of dx an even power of dx. So, we get the following. for both terms wouldn't have worked here. the first order approximation canceled out! but keep this in mind. So, dividing by 2, x_0 can be written as follows. Now, we can subtract the point at the center, going to divide both sides by dx^2. Now, let's sides. Note that all the terms with dx^2 and If we then move the 1/2 in front of the second with the following. This is a really neat at a point is related to the average of the of the function. And if we take a moment to a lot of sense. Remember that we usually use the second derivative function is concave up, then at any point, are on average higher, so the limit we derived us a positive second derivative. And if a the values of the function around that point and we get a negative second derivative. So is really just a way to quantitatively capture to be related to the second derivative. Now, what is the curvature of a straight line? in the taylor expansions canceled out! Those which contribute nothing to the curvature. So we see that the second derivative for a geometric interpretation in terms of the average point itself. Now, say we wanted to extend do that? Necessarily, this becomes a problem what the solution would be in this case. In three dimensions, to find the average value at a tiny sphere of radius dx around that points on that sphere. Then, we would just middle of the sphere. Our claim is that this of the second derivative. It turns out, this the corresponding expression is as follows, is written using this symbol here, called the 2 has become a 6 (and in fact, that number you're in). For those of you who have taken a multivariable and know how to calculate it, but for anyone a second derivative in 3 dimensions, which in a derivation of this fact, which you are a clean derivation in the description. This suited to being derived on paper where you to me flashing a hundred equations on a screen for this equation is exactly the same as the Now, taking this expression as a fact, we derive some of the most important equations math. For example, say we have some electrical charge How would we come up with an equation for this charge distribution? Although this seems intuition to give it a shot. Let's say we have a region of negative charge. from the region of negative charge, the attractive so it gains electrical potential energy as to how lifting something up gives it more Likewise, if we instead had a region of positive this positive region, the positive charge So, let's use this intuition to form a differential function defined in all space, and let's the average potential energy on a tiny sphere at points away from x0, then our intuition charge here, because this means that our particle x0. Likewise, if the potential is smaller at points that there is some positive charge here. So, summarizing all this, we can use our physicists of the following form is right: the second the average of how much greater the potential to the negative of the charge density at that you'll see that this exactly describes the And it turns out, this is exactly right, this A equal to one over the permittivity of free without needing any fancy electromagnetic the relationship on rho wasn't something nature seems to choose the simplest expression. Now, given that this channel has been dedicated use our newfound understanding to develop Specifically, I want to look at the kinetic in the position basis can be written as the seen this before or never even taken a course why this quantity should represent kinetic To recap some quantum physics, the wavefunction amplitude of where our particle is. With just to derive some quantum facts. First, let's looks like a simple gaussian. For now, let's our particle is well localized around some So, how do we interpret the kinetic energy take this relation as fact for the moment, the points around it are on average much much we expect the second derivative to be a big the negative, means that this quantity is relatively because hbar is tiny, but the smaller this number. Now, this should be a somewhat shocking result. an operator at a single point, this statement our particle is localized. So, why should where our particle was localized in space, or in what direction. So...why and where is energy? What we are discovering here is in fact a Note that our particle is really tightly confined in its position. The uncertainty principle in our particle's momentum, and therefore our particle's kinetic energy. And in fact, the solution we would get be a gaussian that kinetic energy from momentum uncertainty pushes So, now we can see that the kinetic energy how fast our particle is moving, but it also principle affects its motion: the more localized the average values around it are, the more uncertainty. I think this is absolutely fascinating, uncertainty principle is baked into the schrodinger Now before wrapping up the video, I encourage of the second derivative to build new intuitions. heat equation is actually saying. Likewise, tend to have smaller and smaller wavelengths- I will leave this up to you to think about! I've given you another tool that you can way the Feynman did for me many years ago. free to leave a comment and I'll do my best day!