- Wait, wait, can you guys hear that? (gloves squishing) - [Producer] Yes, yes, Hannah, I can. - Will's like stop it, stop it. (upbeat music) This year, like every has tested hundreds of kitchen products across a wide variety of categories. - And as 2023 winds down Hannah and I thought it would be fun to give you an inside look from this year's testing. Some of these products were great, and others were less than spectacular. - We're gonna show you our favorite and least favorite products so you can decide what earns But first we have a book coming out! It's called &quot;Kitchen Gear: - The two of us have 30 years of combined experience and we've packed all of our favorite tips and tricks into this book. - We give you our unbiased and what's not. Plus you'll find over 100 ATK recipes that bring out the best in your gear. - Get your copy of &quot;Kitchen Gear: The Ultimate Owner's Manual&quot; today. First up, here's Hannah and worst products of the year. (upbeat music) - This year we went on a big We learned a ton, and one thing we wanna talk about today is why we don't like marble rolling pins. I have a gorgeous one right here and you know, in the Instagram era, it can be tempting to buy but I wanna talk about why Bakers sometimes praise we tested one of those too, because of their ability to stay cool. You know, you can chill them before, and then they'll keep your dough cool, making it easier to roll out. But this one small benefit is not worth the downsides First of all, this thing is hea-vy. It's 4.6 pounds, which but when you're trying to roll out doughs and fly through projects, it actually is really heavy. - [Director] Did you just crush your hand? - I did. - That hurt. (laughing) It is so heavy that it smashed of our pizza dough, and when we tried to roll it was really uneven, because it smashed it down instead of smoothing it across, like we really want that nice even layer. Also, when you're rolling out the weight of this to move all around, so you're as efficiently as you could. The edges of the pin indentations on our dough. This was a little short, and we really don't like handles. You know, if you think about it this way, when you're holding onto the handle, you're a beat removed from So, you have less control. You know, you're rolling that is touching the dough itself. So, we prefer the control of Another thing we noticed, rolling pins roll, shocking, but these are breakable. Check this out. While we were filming TV, this actually rolled off the counter, casualty, and shattered; we had to because there were jagged edges all over. Another one I wanna call out is non-stick. So, this is an OXO model Just for everyone that says We do not like everything they make. And here is an example right here. We didn't like the it made indentations in the side, a little bit less control, but the non-stick part, which may sound like a good idea, you know, you don't want dough to stick, but in some instances, you actually do, like when you're trying to We like the grip that wood gives. It also has flexibility. You know, you can add a you can dial it in. With non-stick, you couldn't do that. Nothing stuck to it. Our ATK recommended rolling pin is this dowel-style model by JK Adams. It has been a winner for years. It just won this round of testing again, and for good reason. We absolutely love these straight shape. Because it has no handles, you don't get indentations in the dough, and you get a lot more So, if your dough is for example, you have You don't have to adjust, adjust, adjust, or make indentations in the dough. This long shape allows you flexibility to do all kinds of doughs. You also get a lot more control. Without handles, you are touching With handles, you are touching the handles that's touching what's touching the dough. There's one layer less removed. As we were rolling out dough and testing, we found that the rougher texture of wood really threaded the needle for that optimum, most versatile performance. Another product we tested and did not like this year are these silicone grill We love and recommend and expert barbecuers alike. It's really important to around that heat, and grill gloves are known for hitting up higher on your arm, so you really get that extra That said, we tested a and some of these we would These are made of super thick silicone, and they do not have a lining, so putting them on and because they're sticky. We felt like these were trying to get them off. We also found that they were You really need a good fit of control and dexterity in a grill glove, and these were just too wide here. The fingers were too wide. If you are gonna get grill gloves, don't get these. Get these. These are the ATK recommended They are the winner of and here's why we loved them. They came in four different sizes. The better the fit, the gonna be able to be with the gloves. We love that. They also kept our hands They did this with a combination of air isolated aluminum Air is a great insulator, and this kept our hands safe. In fact, these had the of the models we tested. Now for a piece of gear we Stove top griddles can be fantastic. They can bring the diner into your home. You can make delicious smash burgers, a whole bunch of eggs We really love these, and we tested models that because one burner ones, they just aren't that and we found some that we truly love. We tested models in a bunch from non-stick coated aluminum to stainless steel to Now, which should you get? It really depends on what you Our winners ended up being a from Cuisinart and a cast And the reason we came up with two winners is because they excel at different things. So for example, non-stick, super light, maneuverable, it heats up and cools down more quickly. Now these can be real benefits when you wanna free your stove But if you wanna do a and you really wanna get a nice sear, these can't be heated that hot. You don't wanna heat because they do have that nice But that non-stick surface can really turn out some eggs, it cooks wonderfully, so it excels at some things, not so great with high heat searing. Coming over here to the this is heavier. It is harder to free back up the burners if you wanna move it off and on the stove. It takes longer to heat up and cool down, but you get a beautiful It can be fantastic for smash burgers. Handles for example, you'll Ones that stuck up and out but the cast iron models, So, if you're interested look for a looped handle, but just know that it's Especially if you have an The handle's not sticking out, this can actually be a pro You can slide it into a cabinet. On the other hand, the If you're wrangling it it's a little heavier Whereas over here, the is lighter, easier to Another thing we really from Cuisinart over It's nice for containing splatter. You know, if you've got pancake batter, it's not gonna go running everywhere. The Lodge model over here, it has walls and a It was better than other, you know, carbon steel or cast iron but it doesn't have the So, which should you get? It really depends what If you wanna be searing you wanna be searing steaks, burgers, you wanna use this thing on the grill, you can do all of that with cast iron. It's a much more versatile material. You don't have to baby it If you don't wanna deal with any upkeep, and you want something that's and you're gonna stick on So, for example, eggs, bacon, pancakes, go with a non-stick coated aluminum model. Just beware that you cannot and you don't wanna use it with high heat. If you're looking for something make sure you do your research. This model over here is This one is, and it really material to material. I actually have the Lodge model. I got two of these as a wedding gift, and I use both of them. I keep one on my stove top at all times. One, 'cause it's kind and two, because it's really useful there. I can use it as a landing place. I like to pretend I'm a I can cook up things on there as I please. The one thing I will recommend unless you give it the time to heat up, give it 5 to 10 minutes to heat up, so you get that even cooking Another standout winner from this year is the ATK recommended personal blender. The Beast Health Blender of our rankings for These are portable, you They take up much less room and this one aced our tests. Our best buy is from NutriBullet. It wasn't quite as powerful, The Beast, on the other hand, this thing truly is a beast, and here's why it won. One thing we found in testing was that the shape of the Wider U-shaped jars were better which made for more even blends. Taller, narrower jars trapped which resulted in less Six or more blades angled were most effective at efficiently and fully grinding up foods. We have a testing smoothie It's a combination of frozen pineapple. It's a really rugged thing to blend, and blenders that can do and easily rated higher in our testings. It also has orange juice in it, and is remarkably delicious. Let us know in the comments we'll throw it down there. Another thing that we was hands-off operation. Some of these you had to hold down a button the We really preferred ones that You could walk away, really or those that simply started when you screwed the components together. And finally, extras like with a nice leak-proof seal that you could sip from more easily or this is a storage lid right here. These extra accessories really pushed this model over the top. Those are some of my highlights Now here's Lisa with hers. - First on my list, the food processor attachment that goes on one of our This is the Vitamix A2500 Ascent series. It also fits the Adventurous series. It doesn't fit our top rated 5200 Vitamix, but it does fit these. So, if you already have this blender or another one that this from Vitamix will fit, it might be a good choice. We put it through all the for our food processor review, just to see how well it compares. So, we did everything blending yogurt with green to see how quickly it blended it together. We made sticky, and we also made pie crust. So, was it worth it? In our testing, we could only recommend It wasn't really ideal. It did most of those food Where it really fell down was it could not handle dough. So, when we did that sticky, these blades just got glommed up and they couldn't move. It started to overheat. We had to take it off and finish it by hand. If you already own this blender and you wanna get the food processor, it does save a little space. It's the same machine, and you're just putting this on top and using that same motor But our ATK recommended Cuisinart can do a lot more. It can perform the full range of tasks for just about the same money. Personally, I would skip it. I really think that our does a much better job at every task. Next, a product we liked: cast iron bread ovens. If you baked bread a lot at home, or you'd like to, it might be worth investing in one of these. Now most people just use their dutch oven, which is enamel cast It's great, but there's a One is that you can really Oils polymerized on the surface turn really brown and blotchy, and it's very hard to remove. So, if you care about keeping that's kind of a downside. The other is that the round that we recommend is gonna limit the shape So, if you want to make you can't do it in that; you can only do round loaves. Dutch ovens also have in that the high sides when you're lowering the You could burn your knuckles. Dedicated bread ovens can We have two choices here. One is our winner, our which is the Challenger bread oven. And we have our best During testing, we found had certain traits that in any dedicated bread oven. First, you want simple Simpler is better. These ovens have just two and they're both entirely made One of the things we loved about this one is that it is a huge base that can accommodate bread loaves of up to a kilo, which is 2.2 pounds, and they can be either or batards, which are oblong, and there's plenty of space and to fit larger loaves. We also love that it has two sets of really large, These two on the top help The ones on the side let you lift the entire oven, and this thing is really heavy. But that's a great thing, because these thick walls and this heat retaining cast iron is gonna give you a wonderful So, this thing weighs 22 pounds. That's a lot of cast iron. When you're gonna use to preheat it in the oven for a full hour. Usually we'll leave the Dutch It's much thinner. These are much thicker walls. It's gonna need a full hour and to let all that heat So, you could actually bake another loaf after the first one is done, and they're gonna bake a little faster than a typical Dutch oven. This one will bake up So, the first couple times you use it, just really keep an eye on that and get used to how it behaves if you're used to a typical Dutch oven. The Challenger costs almost $300. It's amazing. We love everything about it, but that's a lot of money to invest in. We have a great option This is a camp cooker, and it's was not made for bread, but it works pretty closely to the same way the Challenger does. It has a top that is and a bottom that's like a deep sauce pan. So, together they become a Dutch oven, and this is supposed to when you're camping. That's what his original purpose was. But we have discovered that it also works really, It has the same thick, uncoated cast iron, very simple construction. It's gonna bake really well. You can't wreck it. You know, any kind of darkening is never gonna show up, and it makes gorgeous bread. I have one of these at home. I use it a lot, and I love it. It's so simple, and it costs about $50 for the Challenger. Cold brew coffee has really It's even converted to drinking coffee, because cold brew, which is steeped in colder instead of hot water, really has a floral, fruity, compared to traditional coffee. The thing to know about cold brew coffee is it's slower to make. Hot water quickly extracts out of coffee grounds. So, you can make it in With cold brew coffee, that keeps in your refrigerator Now you can just pour to make a really lovely Or you can add some hot water, and you can dilute it to your preference to make a hot cup of coffee on demand. So, you don't have to be You do it once a week depending on how fast you drink it, and you're done. We have an ATK method on our website for hacking your French And I've done that, makes great cold brew, but having a dedicated So, we tested a lot of different styles of cold brew machines that What we found was simpler is better. This is our ATK recommended favorite. It's the Toddy Cold Brew System. During our testing, we found that the Toddy had some key attributes that you really want First, a really spacious brew basket. This large brewing basket for the water and coffee to interact, and the coffee will release We also really loved the So, you have the little filter disc, and you get it wet, and then you press it of the filter basket. Then you're gonna take and there's a hole at the bottom. That's where the coffee's gonna and you're just gonna push that in. Next you're gonna add your cold water, coarsely ground coffee, and the instructions will give Here's a little silicone so your cat won't play and then you leave it at room temperature. When it says cold brewed, that does not mean you're room temperature. It's not hot. So, it's gonna sit for 12 to 24 hours. So, after the 12 to 24 you're just gonna get over here, pull the plug over this glass carafe that they provide, and place this on top, and the coffee will drain out. It comes with a nice lid and keeps it all fresh. We also tested electrical cold brew makers where they basically churn the cold water around the coffee grounds, and it's supposed to go a lot faster than waiting 12 to 24 hours while they sit together like this one. That didn't work well either. The cold brew from an electric machine was gritty, sour, weak, and just wasn't any good. I've used the Toddy, I really like it. I think simple is better. It does a really good job. The concentrate tastes great. This is a great machine. One of my favorite new testings for this year is hot water dispensers. This is great for anyone during the course of a day, especially as someone and doesn't wanna get up and make tea in another It keeps you at your desk This is our ATK recommended During testing, we found that this model of Zojirushi water dispenser that you really want to look for. First is speed. This one boiled 3 liters of which is faster than This one also has a high hold temperature, so it can hold water at It was really easy to fill. This red ball on the water display will rise as you're filling it, so you don't have to be peering inside. And it has some nice markings inside that show you exactly where you are and how much is in there. Some of them we were It was a little awkward. This was very simple and nicely designed. Some of them have a flat face, and when you're trying to whether it's a bowl or a cup or something that you're trying you can't quite get it under the spout, and a lot was splashing around. This was very thoughtfully So, you can put your It dispenses right in, fewer splashes, especially when it's hot. You really wanna keep it in the cup. So, comparing these to an electric kettle, it's just a little bit different. A kettle, you're gonna have And for some people who are with comfort, this is better, because the water, it stays in place, and you put your cup under it You can also do three liters because you're not going This holds a lot more And some kettles don't have that will hit a certain target. So, if you're always that needs 160 or 175 or something, you can just leave it there, and it will always be at We also like to model by Tiger. It's our best buy. It has a lot of the same features, but it was a little bit But you don't have to take my word for it. Let's talk to someone for 10 years. Lan? - Hi, I hear there's a new winner. - Yes. that I can fill it up set a temperature, and then I don't actually to make more tea, unless, I don't know. No, I don't have to get up - So, anytime you want a cup of tea, you just dispense the water and brew your tea right there. - Yeah, yeah, I like that I I can just have tea on demand after the water comes up to a boil and comes back down to the - So, there you have it. Some of the highlights to avoid from this past year of testing at America's Test Kitchen. For more information on all check out the links below or go to AmericasTestKitchen.com. - What gadgets are you excited about going into the new year? What videos do you wanna see from us next? Let us know in the comments. Make sure to like this video, and hit that subscribe button, so you never miss an episode. (upbeat music continuing) (music ending)