Jon: You've probably heard the word &quot;holy&quot; before or at least sang it in a church song once or twice. And for most people, this idea is really So... God is 'holy' because he's morally perfect. Tim: Yeah, that is part of it... but in the Bible the idea of 'holiness' What it's really describing is how God is He's the one and only being with the power And so all these abilities they may God utterly unique, A helpful way to think about God's The sun is unique, at least And its really powerful. Its the source of all this And so you could say that the sun is 'holy'. And you can actually take this metaphor even further in that the whole area around the sun is Jon: Yeah because the closer you get to Tim: yeah, exactly. So that very power and goodness I mean the sun, if you get too close, will annihilate you. And in the same way there's this paradox because if you're impure his presence is dangerous to you and not because it's bad, but because its And so the first time we see this paradox of God's holiness, Jon: So God tells Moses to take off his And Moses covers his face in fear and God says &quot;hey don't come any closer&quot;. Its intense. Tim: It's actually that intensity of God's holiness which was the main place where and at the center the temple was this it's the hotspot of God's presence. and whether you're an Israelite or a priest working right in the temple, which is dangerous. Jon: Yeah, this is a problem. Tim: Well in the Bible the solution is Jon: So like being Morally Pure? Tim: Yeah, and that's easy enough to understand... ...but the Bible spends a lot of time being Ritually Pure which is a state where you separate yourself like touching things like diseased skin, or dead bodies, all these make you impure. And becoming ritually impure isn't necessarily sinful. What's wrong is waltzing into God's presence And so that's why God gave the Israelites steps to become pure, so that they could Jon: So that's what the book of Leviticus is about. Tim: Right. But it doesn't stop there. So later in the scriptures we find this And he has this crazy vision where he's in and he's right in God's presence. He's Jon: Yeah. He knows the rules. And he's worried about being destroyed. Tim: And then this crazy creature called a Seraphim. Jon: Yeah, that is a crazy creature. Tim: Totally. So it flies over with a hot coal. And then it sears Isaiah's lips with the &quot;Your guilt is taken away and your Jon: So this burning coal somehow makes Isaiah pure. Tim: Yeah, its remarkable because normally if you touch something impure But now here's this new idea where you have this coal, this very holy and pure object, and it transfers its purity to him. Isaiah is not destroyed by God's holiness, I mean the implications of this are just huge. But there's one more development, this And he has this vision where and he sees water trickling out from it. And then that water turns into a stream and then a grows into a deep river that leaving this trail of green trees behind it. And then it flows into the Dead Sea Jon: So, instead of becoming pure first ...here God's holiness comes out from the What does it all mean? Tim: So, we don't know. And he claims that he's fulfilling all of these ancient visions So Jesus, he went around touching people who are impure... ... people with skin diseases, and when he touches them, ... but instead, Jesus' purity transfers to them Jon: Jesus is like that holy coal in Isaiah's vision. Tim: Right. And Jesus claimed that he was and that he and his followers were now so that through them God's holy presence and bring life and healing and hope. And so this is why Jesus described his followers Jon: So this is our part of the story where Tim: so the last pages of the Bible end This time it's by a guy named John. And in his vision we see the whole world made completely new. The entire earth has become God's temple. And Ezekiel's river is there flowing out of God's presence, immersing all of creation, removing all impurity and bringing