During the early 15th century BC, ancient after Pharaoh Ahmose the First, founder of the New Ahmose's great-granddaughter, Pharaoh Hatshepsut, by expanding the empire's trade routes greatest architectural wonders. managed to become one of the most successful Hatshepsut, whose name means "foremost to Pharaoh Thutmose the First and Queen Ahmose. Egypt, alongside her sister and two brothers, After her father's death, Thutmose the Second inherited the throne. the Second needed a queen of 100% royal Hatshepsut, then 12 years old, was the ideal half-brother and became the queen of Egypt. child together; a girl by the name of Neferure. named Thutmose the Third, who When Hatshepsut's husband unexpectedly died at only three years old, leaving Hatshepsut until he was old enough to rule. wife and mother of pharaohs gave Hatshepsut After seven years of acting as Queen leverage her compelling position by Although the strength of her bloodline was without To legitimize her position, Hatshepsut the Egyptian god of air, and that it was She explained that Amun had possessed conception and impregnated her mother. but it ultimately paid off, aided by including a man named Senenmut, the overseer have been Hatshepsut's secret lover. divine right and support from the aristocracy, through propaganda, by depicting false beard in most sculptures and carvings. was still inconceivable for a woman to lead troops Instead, Hatshepsut decided to use the empire's She sent her forces on an a somewhat legendary kingdom at the time, where Punt's exact location remains a mystery, located somewhere on the southern shores The venture was an overwhelming success, bringing Egypt's army returned with an abundance of riches, Hatshepsut became the first ruler in history to This was accomplished by roots of the trees on the journey back to Egypt. person in recorded history to grind up charred Among other trophies brought back were exotic This remarkably fruitful expedition pharaoh's popularity and reputation. financial support for another of Hatshepsut's Hundreds of large-scale building projects all throughout Upper and Lower Egypt. Karnak Temple Complex, a popular construction Hatshepsut built enormous twin obelisks made and dedicated them to the god Amun. the tallest surviving obelisk in Egypt, while the Hatshepsut ordered an even larger obelisk to after cracks began to form in the granite. the "Unfinished Obelisk" as it's referred stone-working techniques - with chisel marks and The uncontested jewel of Hatshepsut's many that she had built in her honor, known as Sculptures within the mortuary temple tell the lucrative expeditions to the exotic Land of Punt. their own extravagant buildings of worship, but Her step-son Thutmose the Third Hatshepsut from historical records. partially obliterated are up for debate. out of resentment towards the female pharaoh. Hatshepsut did, after all, appoint Thutmose her reign and he made no effort to Additionally, it wasn't until 20 years after disappear from public buildings. her successors were merely trying to Postulating that evidence of a successful female rule, which would upset the patriarchal system The allowance of a female pharaoh might also the Ancient Egyptian goddess of Alternatively, it may have been done in an attempt Second's claim to the throne, since he had no In any case, attempts to erase her memory Egyptologists theorize that herself to death by regularly applying A CT scan of her mummy revealed that she suffered life and died in 1458 BC at the age of 50, Hatshepsut was the second pharaoh, after of the Kings, located on the west bank of The Valley of the Kings would eventually contain from Egypt's 18th, 19th, and 20th dynasties. strategy, Hatshepsut successfully and went on to become one of the greatest Consider liking, commenting, subscribing, videos like this.