What if there are thousands of each spanning a few to maybe tens sometimes shooting or ignoring each other While the Milky Way is ancient and gigantic, any civilization could take over the But we haven't seen anybody yet. So it But this idea is built on a lot of speculate where all the alien civilizations to a point where colonising all But what if we are thinking about universe is full of life, but no matter space is never easy? What if expanding like humans did over the ocean? Let's The Available Real Estate in the Galaxy Oceania is a region with tens of thousands of kilometers, separated by an unforgiving, Some 5000 years ago the first people set Polynesians achieved mind blowing feats. out into the vast nothingness hoping to find a But most of the pacific islands are merely a and if you are lucky, birds making a pit stop. lacking the resources to really sustain a lot And then there are the good islands. The Polyneisians colonised them, spreading islands of all sizes. Some united in kingdoms many home to competing and belligerent tribes. And most remote islands were connected with at least But it didn't always work out. The were settled for hundreds of years and relied hundreds of kilometers away. And then know why - maybe because the islanders did the until they became unsustainable. Maybe the important connections. We only know their What if space is an ocean to us? A Would alien civilizations The Universe is kind of a horrible place The Milky Way has around 200 billion star systems Estimates vary, but there may be some 300 million in the habitable zone around a star, where water are terrible. Hells of lava, dead frozen blanked by toxic atmospheres. It's easy to Mars is the next human frontier and fairly radiation and low gravity will make you sick. crushing you to death, burning If humanity was really motivated and had the within maybe a thousand years - we showed how in a planet that's pretty great, so currently Now let's think about this in If the milky way is like a vast ocean full of Barren rocks or corals, where nothing Imagine boarding a generation ship to travel for and then you get a... Mars. Or worse, a Venus. an intense investment in terms of resources to stars for bad planets. Maybe the simple reason that the economics just don't add up for But wait, you might say: It's actually easy! could automate this process, sending thinking years with new planets ready for fresh settlers, that easy someone would have done it by now. So Thinking about alien civilizations you for this video we are assuming that space is hard, even for high tech civilizations that have Now things are getting exciting. So what if alien civilizations actually the very best? Stringing together Thousands of Galactic Empires Every star moves in its own orbit through are only temporary. At any given time, in than in others. While simply because of bad Earth might currently be in one of these islands for dozens of light years in all so isolated that nobody knows we are here, But elsewhere in the Milky Way good islands may easy for a high tech civilization to jump from one empires. Strings of worlds, with all the adventure planets. Do they need to animate dead worlds with or strange ecosystems? Do they need to burn it or do they adapt? How many centuries do Empires expanding in regions full of good islands maybe they fight. Maybe they have coffee And just like some of the Polynesian islands, be abandoned or for the empires to First of all, most great neighbourhoods islands would become remote. Then it just unsustainable or self destructive - humanity with extinction. There are numerous existential that any civilization has to deal with. And be less resilient than their homeworlds and happens this would leave a good island free Also space is just a different ballpark. it hard to maintain a consistent civilization on Earth alone. Imagine if sending a message Would colonies care what the home world wants enforce its will on them? This also would make completely uneconomic. Would you go to war with yours? At these distances, it's not like anyone And on a much more fundamental level, if amounts of genetic information - if there or later these populations will develop in different species. Making it less likely So the idea of enormously big, connected galaxy is an ocean where good islands are few civilizations may pop up constantly, spread and by splitting into different factions. Islands What would this mean for us? We might think we are alone only because But there could be thousands of worlds full of eventually drift closer to - does this make a good thing that we'd have time to get our act great tragedy that we might not have the chance to Well we don't know, but it is something for you to Hopefully humanity is still at the beginning universe every day - one day, we might spot a good One huge problem we face as a species is that we of news media but most of them tend to frame they are trying to get your attention with the Ground News, the sponsor of this video, landscape by letting you directly compare from media with opposing viewpoints. This framing reality for you, it also otherwise miss. Which massively improves how world and can help you to make up your own mind It's like reading a meta study instead of understanding of the world. Give it a try sign up through this link you'll get 40% off access to every Ground News feature. Your and Ground News so they can continue to This is personal to us - like most people, got his information from the same news site for stay, he read all German newspapers out of and revealing how much framing was going on, an event as mildly noteworthy another as a huge events. If it seems to you that people who you a huge reason why. But all of us really should And this is why Ground News is a genuine, do it with a bird's eye perspective, ground.news/nutshell to make Welcome to the kurzgesagt lab. Let's We'll first add some more mass to this protostar. giant, a star with 10 times the mass of our sun. happens. A supernova! Breathtaking. And look! It Now we record our findings. Be It's now time for Duck's final inspection. incredibly high standards. scientifically accurate, offers an overview a real stunner. Looks like it's ready to be shared special piece of kurzgesagt You can get this very special poster space-y things created with Every kurzgesagt product you buy directly funds videos. Thank you so much for being a part of