- In 2021, just one year, nearly one in 10 homes by natural hazards, and many places with in the US are also seeing - When we ask home buyers is climate change impacting to move to a particular location? It's yes, the answer is yes. But then when you look at the macro trends of where people are actually moving, they're moving into harm's way. - Here's the thing, a quick in just about any geographic location will bring up news of disasters and dire predictions of worse to come. So how can we make informed decisions about where to live It turns out that even though some places will face far more hazards identifying the riskiest places in the future is really hard. Take Alexander Pyslarash as an example. In 2020, he was living and the wildfires and smoke that he decided to move to Florida. But when his car nearly flooded while driving through Miami he realized he hadn't So we worked with some of to help us sift through the data, find where hazards overlap, and map out the riskiest places in the US. And stay with us to find out where we think the single (foreboding music) As extreme weather increases how do we figure out the riskiest places? First, let's look at the safest places. These are the safest 10% based on projections of by the middle of the century. As the humid climate niche, characterized by mean annual temperatures around 55 degrees Fahrenheit, moves north, some places that are particularly cold now might actually get safer, because, as we know the most deadly weather This ProPublica study also lists the most dangerous US counties, and we'll get to that in a bit. But first, let's add to our for flood, storm, fire, Starting with one of the This map shows the number by future floods due to high tides, and storm surge. Many coastal towns will be and places like West with heavy rain as the climate warms. According to Redfin, by 2050, 84% of properties in Cape Coral, Florida, and 98% of properties in New Orleans will be at risk for flooding. Houston is also an outlier on this list, due to the sheer number as we saw when Hurricane under its record-shattering rains in 2017. But what about storms? It seems like these extreme are causing more and more The top 10 cities impacted in the Northeast, but both infamously rainy Now, let's look at fire. Here, the map shifts dramatically to the West and Southeast. This map shows the annual The places most at risk of devastating wildfires aren't cities, but instead houses and developments on the edge of wildlands and And it's not just forested but also the grass and shrublands of regions like the Great Basin, particularly places Which brings us to drought. This map shows decreases in precipitation over the last 30 years But what about the future? Well, here are the top to be impacted by drought in 2050. Four of them rely on water which is already in a and large water-use cuts in Lastly, let's look at the of weather-related deaths in the US, heat. This map shows projected days Oh man, Florida, Texas, and Arizona are looking pretty toasty. Phoenix is hotter than anywhere else, but, in Florida, temperatures for it to become dangerous That makes it harder for the body to cool itself by sweating. If we take a look at the combined risk of all these climate impacts, we start to see how And the Southeast will of climate change. And now let's add back in the but this time for the At this point, we're beginning of some places you might wanna think twice about before moving. But are we really any closer to determining the single Perhaps we need to take from a different angle. We reached out to Hannah Hess from the Rhodium Group's where they study how climate across a variety of categories, including death rates and the amount of time someone can spend on the job working due to temperature. - So what we're looking at in high risk industries like or manufacturing, being during the workday causes them - This might mean starting or ending it earlier, or taking more frequent breaks to cool off and protect themselves from the heat. One thing their research that already see these temperature are better adapted and more equipped to deal with elevated - In a place like, for instance, workers are already relatively A lot of people have air conditioning. A lot of people have with extreme heat. - And even though Florida these disastrous storms in any given location. So maybe we can find - In contrast, Southern California, Southern Arizona, Texas, a lot of those areas And one of the highest risk places in this data set is Phoenix, Arizona. - And you might be surprised by just how much the to impact people's ability to work, damaging the city's economy. - An individual worker is projected to spend 78 hours - So if you put that in with, say, 200 full-time workers, that would mean 15,600 But working hours lost isn't for Phoenix to consider. According to the UNDP website, under a moderate greenhouse gas scenario, Phoenix would see an increased death rate of 79 mortalities per 100,000 people from climate change by And to put this into perspective, traffic accidents cause 15 So we're talking about And under a high emission scenario, the number of deaths is projected to be nearly And the ProPublica study that under that same by mid-century, Phoenix in excess of 95 degrees So when you add up all of Phoenix's to extreme heat that it begins to sound like it might just be the most in the United States or at least near the top of the list. And another interesting and the surrounding county of Maricopa is that it's also one of in the country. And this means even more and more difficulty adapting to the growing challenges But as we mentioned back in when you look at moving the weird thing is, Among the 20 fastest growing you'll recognize many of the because of their climate risks, and almost none of them are But to figure out why people are moving to the most hazardous locations, let's start by taking a closer look at why they're choosing - People are leaving these for economic reasons. On the one hand, you have people leaving because of affordability. They're leaving the West these coastal markets where home prices have People would love to live in the most climate resilient areas. Like San Francisco, for example, has a very moderate temperature, it doesn't really have risks of hurricanes or drought or anything like that. But people are being into more wildfire risky because of the lack of housing. So yeah, people care about it, but money, ultimately, is just being able to afford - In fact, the top five are all extremely expensive coastal towns. Another especially safe region But people are leaving there - It's not because housing People in the Midwest are leaving due to a lack of economic opportunity, because they can't find for them to have the standard So they go to places with - And what does it say about our country that people are having to move to riskier and riskier places Jesse Keenan focuses on finding answers to problems like these, that a big part of the solution - Our brains are there when a bus is heading our direction, or a tiger is running to eat us, right? We're not physiologically oriented for slow violence and So we're just, from the get go, impaired in our ability to understand The more information that the greater likelihood it is going to have that they are going to shift - The availability of this kind of long-term hazard And according to Redfin's data, - We did find an effect, that people who were previously viewing in terms of flood risk, went on to make offers on once they saw that information. So it seems like it is having a tangible The most important is just to prepare. And by preparing, we may of the damage, because if that they have really high flood risk, maybe they'll start to or they'll even band together and ask their local about preparing for climate change. - So now that we've on different climate what can we say about the Well, when you factor in all of the risks that we've talked about, and the California-Arizona border look like places you should think But according to the ProPublica study, there is one county that comes out on top. Beaufort County, South Carolina. This county is at risk of nearly including a couple that impacts to crops and Wet bulb is a big topic to explain here. But for now, I can tell you that it refers to the of heat and humidity, where the human body to cool itself down. But that's a topic for a future episode. For now, we'd like to hear what you think. Are you planning on moving, or have you made a move recently? Has this episode changed the way you think about your decision? Let us know in the comments.