hey everybody it's doctor jo and today we're going to show you some exercises so doctor jen, tell us a little bit well i am a pelvic floor physical therapist. so women, and children with bowel, bladder, sexual most common diagnoses that i see in my practice is that is involuntary leakage of urine with any sort cough, sneeze, laugh, lift, jump. what happens and our muscles are not able to hold that back. so at the top, or our breathing muscle, pelvic that wrap around the urethra, the vagina, and the the innermost layer of the abdominals, and then beautifully together rhythmically to stabilize and prevent us from leakage. but sometimes tense or tight, and then all of a sudden we start bit of urine can come out beyond our control. help minimize that. awesome. who knew so much the most foundational exercise to help you manage is actually breathing. it's not a very sexy but if you can master this, you'll find that most tell my patients if air is not coming out here in what i typically see is patients will jump rope or and so the pressure comes out down below and so it's very very important that you're able to we do from here on out is a basic progression. you to lie down with your knees bent and your back the other hand on the chest. and what i'd like for the nose, you feel your belly fill up with air, do love for the breath to be audible. that way we activity. so again to master the breathing inhale, long exhale. perfect perfect. minimal movement of fills up as the diaphragm comes down, chest rises through breathing out through your mouth or nose and out through the mouth, so we always tell inhale through the nose belly gets big, chest perfect usually have patients do this for about help you kind of bring your focus to the the co-contracting that we're going to progress pelvic floor, deep abdominals, and low is with your exhalation, with the but we're going to start firing up the so i like for you to place your hands and before we pair the breathing, let's find the towards the spine. so minimal movement of release. gently find belly button in towards the and then release. the pelvic floor lives but we also shouldn't see any compensation of the want you to find the urethra or the anus, imagine releasing urine and let go. nothing too exciting and breath holding--all wrong. it's it's a moot it should look like nothing is happening. so muscles working together? so i'm going to talk you and breath, so inhale belly gets big, exhale pull abdominals contract with that exhale, and release. stabilize the spine and pelvis with the exhale, that was awesome! that was not a toot, that compressing the abs. i love it. where do you um. we're just gonna leave that in! yeah, I think the point. that's the point. oh my gosh, and inhale belly gets big, exhale, draw belly button long exhale, and release. imagine if you could do you could do this with every activity: a box jump, exhale, with every effort, you've already managed from the bottom, and most of the time this will start adding some movement with it. okay, so same record, but i really want you guys to be able to big exhale, belly button to the spine, pelvic a glute bridge staying stable here, and come on movement of hip of hip hinging or getting our and this will be great to progress to squats and that a few times. we're going to try about five inhale belly gets big. exhale pull belly button and then come back down. fabulous. inhale belly closure come up. i love it ,and come back down. feel the deep abdominals tighten as you exhale, hips come up, and then come on down. let's exhale pull the tummy tight, lift from the perfect. all right so exercise number four one thing that i think is really important them all in the same position. and what the core to have exercises that are diverse in different just practice lying down, trust me you won't that's not when you're exercising. we're up, so the next position is quadruped or on go ahead and take it to all fours. this is also want is i don't want this big arch or sag in but what i want is a nice neutral spine. okay. that maximal range of motion of the diaphragm. her belly sag as she inhales, without moving the pull belly button to the spine. beautiful. again using my hands underneath. i know you won't be let's pair it with the pelvic floor. inhale belly spin. pelvic floor lifts, and hold, and release. reason i love that is because it's a reciprocal running, walking those kind of things. and let's arm opposite legs. so the foundation is core and the arm will extend, but only after we set the belly gets big, exhale pull those ab tight, pelvic feel closure at the bottom, and then bring it exhale through your mouth as tummy gets tight, behind you. beautiful. and then come back. you gas or urine. you should feel a subtle tension in exercise, we move our arms and legs. let's pull belly button to the spine as the pelvic and come back down. other side inhale belly the openings of the anus and urethra as our and then bring it back in. beautiful. so for each of these about five to ten repetitions and you can co-contracting the glute bridge, quadruped really going to get to the fun kind of bounding or we'll start in standing. okay so for this last yourself on one leg or something called single lunges, oftentimes require stability on one leg. with your breath on one leg, and then we're going so for set up, what i'd like for you to do is doesn't matter, and i want to make sure that we to do some absorption or some landing. and then your pelvis. so not that arch or that rounding but you find your balance, again we inhale and set up spine, pelvic floor lift as you stabilize on one balance, she's able to stay in for quite some exhale through the mouth as tummy gets beautiful. what we're going to do next time is your leg down if you'd like, but all she's going your way different directions, different impact. and then you're going to bound to your side. okay. over pelvis. inhale belly gets big ,exhale find and then rest. put the other leg so standing on that right but set the exercise. inhale, exhale, pull abs and then put your foot back down. listen blew out through her mouth, and then supported leakage. okay let's practice one more time on the knees, rib cage over pelvis, inhale belly gets we go bound. i love it. and then foot goes down. you can take them and do what you did when we your hip bones. you can feel the lower abdominals inhale expansion, exhale tummy beautiful. that is the last exercise i have the breath, and movement, you can incorporate it fun exercises. if you're just leaking simply aging, weakness, you can do that exhale squeeze the core, lift from hopefully that helps with your your symptoms of couple ones, with each round it got easier you're accomplishing it and doing it correctly right. and it happens quickly you guys. this muscle strength, it's using your brain to find the so play around with it and you'll find that all right. so there you have it, if you'd like we've made a playlist for you. you can click on clicking down there. and remember be safe,