&quot;I remember there were a couple stand on a button and get the cube cube back. We had to put in special ...you missed a spot. &quot;Softlocking&quot; a game is the act of entering continues to run, progression is impossible. permanently trapped or when a bug in But in the mid-2000s, the developers in a game where the goal is to solve Valve was aware of this issue and needed a way When I first played Portal as a kid, I used to cleverly detect when the player became stuck. account for situations where And this raises the question: Today, we'll examine the game's 20 test how many anti-softlock mechanisms were put how many softlocks remain in the game undetected. Editing this video has been a monumental effort, so I'd like to thank Raycon Raycon's Everyday Earbuds provide a premium audio The gel tips have been optimized for both wear no matter where I take them -- and with the durable against the wear-and-tear of daily life. 8 hours of playtime and a 32 hour battery life. active noise cancelation, The entire feature set is very impressive at Raycon's Black Friday and Cyber Monday sales. description or go to buyraycon.com/marblr It's a great way to support the channel, and Before we go searching for softlocks, there's established: Portal is a broken game. game's various exploits, it would be trivial to In order to provide a fair we'll be playing with one rule: no glitches. Since classifying what does and does not count as following the glitchless ruleset on speedrun.com. possible without using any of the Now that our ground rules are The game begins in chamber 00 with the simplest We are immediately presented with a classic irretrievable if thrown through the exit door. but it's a bit strange. inform the dropper to dispense another cube Doing this actually plays some unique dialogue Simply throwing the cube is nowhere so we'll have to get creative. at an angle and opening it, the cube will fall At this point, the cube is under immense stress The direction the cube gets launched so it often won't go where you want it to. flying straight into the fizzler, activating Please do not attempt to remove testing replacement Aperture Science Weighted So there's a lot about this that doesn't add up. First off, why is there even dialogue for this? vast majority of Portal players will Second, this is the only form of if the cube lands in the exit room without On the surface, none of this makes any If we look at a beta version of chamber be in the main room in front of the door. the special dialogue and prevents the player At some point between 2006 and Portal's release fizzler closer to the elevator. no extra softlock detection was added to But this is just one softlock It's possible to softlock even earlier The radio can be used to hold the first after entering the cube and button room, we When the door fully closes, we once again become Holding doors open with physics props is one of the many recurring techniques that will Moving on to chamber 01, we're met When the player drops down from the starting This prevents the cube from being thrown back This is the only softlock prevention no kind of detection in place. we can lean a cube on the exit door to Chamber 02 is where the player is where things start to get interesting. a problem, since you would have to play the To prevent the player from leaving a player clip brush was placed around this door. collision that allows any object to The flaw with this particular clip brush is so it's still accessible from the side. since this extra bit of clipping to airstrafe past it using a regular jump. By grabbing the radio and positioning of it and gain just enough height Now we can enter chamber 03 without the softlock since there's no way to cross Chamber 03 itself doesn't have any softlock of the clip brush in the previous chamber. we do actually need the portal gun; so Chamber 04 is very similar We can lean the cube against the door to push detections that each trigger different events. GLaDOS plays some generic softlock Despite the best efforts of the Enrichment of all authorized activities, you have inside this room. A complimentary escape If the cube launches into the fizzler, dispense another cube with no dialogue. to play the same dialogue from chamber 00, but it You may have noticed that there's an empty If the cube comes to rest here, activates and the player becomes softlocked. open with a detached camera and manually placing After it closes, you're rewarded I'm not entirely sure why this gap exists, will only become more common as Chamber 05 has what is quite possibly the When one of the cubes is thrown beyond the You're not a good person. You know that, right? This isn't the usual dialogue that in fact, it's a voice line re-used from You're not a good person. You know that, right? This is the only softlock detection in the which made it a well-known easter Despite its popularity, I have yet to see anyone So let's give it a try! is the shape of the cube detection trigger; Since this trigger only activates when a cube prop as a platform to place the cubes on top of. can detach from the wall to help pull this off. ending room and placing the This will provide enough clearance to Next, we need to bring both Throwing the first cube up is easy, but we need to create a staircase using After jumping up, we're able to grab the on top of the camera in the ending room. tower is stable we can move the blue portal There's no conceivable way this would but that's what makes it so amusing. absolute limit and softlock using the most Which is why it was disappointing to find have any softlocks or softlock preventions. softlocking since orb launchers periodically There's no known method of causing new orbs -- and if there was, it would But let's say there was a way to permanently Even then, each of these Chamber 06 can be solved by shooting a portal onto it, chamber 07 can be solved with and chamber 08 can be solved by jumping So far, softlocks have only been Oh look, chamber 09 has cubes and doors! player returns to the dropper, the trapped cube Looking at the shape of the detection it and the fizzler just like chamber 04. we can jump through and take the cube with us. trigger and fizzler, but there's an This fizzler does not inform the dropper so by fizzling the cube here and returning to With no way to hold the button That's right! there are a couple of frames where you can This is absurdly difficult. it myself; this is footage from chamber 09's Regardless, this proves that there is a cube and without using glitches. would be effectively softlocked in this But don't worry; this chamber has a far more When you think about it, elevators In fact, the elevators in Portal move using This entity is programmed to follow traveling forward or backward between them. since the path begins partway up the shaft instead This was done so when the player see the elevator arriving before reaching it. at floor level, but will continue moving Both of these triggers do the exact same to move forward along its path. activated in reverse order, the elevator would This can be done easily by solving the puzzle and landing a jump-shot through this window. you can activate the second trigger then go back to the first trigger to send it up. as there is no longer a way Even though elevators are scripted to load the it will only succeed if the player is This check only occurs once, so if elevator reaches the end of its track, If we stand at the bottom of the transition then we do load into chamber 10...except so we become instantly softlocked. Chamber 10 is otherwise devoid of is another way to become softlocked. three rooms -- each one separated by a door If we manage to backtrack to a previous room become softlocked since the door will not reopen. &quot;portal standing&quot; where we stand on the shoot the blue portal at the end of the orange portal we were standing on. trigger that closes the first door. activate the trigger that closes the second door. bottom of this pit to go back to the first room. which results in a softlock But hold on, rewind a bit. the third room take us back to the first room? so what's going on? chamber in an unintended order causes this orange To understand why, we need to look Every portal entity has a set of variables The &quot;Activated&quot; field determines If it's true, the portal is visible the portal is invisible and inert. is when it's fizzled -- note that deactivated just in a disabled state. determines the portal's color. and if it's false, the portal is blue. a handle to the opposite portal in memory. so the portal can access information about Crucially, the linked portal fields a portal can't link to another portal without Because of this, one portal becoming deactivated With all this in mind, let's look 00 as an example of successful portal linkage. Initially, there is a deactivated orange portal These are called &quot;fixed&quot; portals, since at specific locations in a deactivated state. for other activated portals to link to. The blue portal is activated second, and The blue portal tells the orange portal portal establishes a link to the other. the orange portal reads what color the blue then the blue portal reads what color the orange This was completely pointless, since each portal But it's this single operation that Here's the chamber 10 softlock with portal data the player's blue portal, and the The first orange portal links with Shortly after we enter the third which nullifies each portal's link. it notices another activate portal in As soon as this happens, the first opposite value of the second orange sets its color to the opposite of the Both portals work perfectly fine after retains its orange particle effects. fascinating softlocks since it abuses a But we can say goodbye to fixed portals for where the dual portal device is introduced. launcher from the main room, and it only After acquiring the new portal into this closed-off room and become stuck. when the player has entered the room with the dual First, GLaDOS starts playing softlock dialogue. 9.5 seconds later, the door is told to open existence, this does nothing. is a little jarring, but from what I If I trigger this softlock detection again we can see what would happen if Once it does open, the problem becomes clear; the it were opened by the button, which This could have been avoided by reworking but Valve figured the best solution to And to their credit, it's not possible The starting room is a different story. so backtracking here after grabbing the dual We can do this by flinging to the Now that have the ability to shoot orange portals, we can enter an orange portal to go back Shooting both portals up here leaves There's another method of softlocking on similar to chambers 02 and 03. appears after the dual portal gun is collected. though -- it's just hidden away under the goo. press the button before barely swimming to safety. take the elevator to chamber 12. the blue portal, but we're not softlocked yet. orange portal from chamber 11. chambers 11 and 12 exist in the same map clear out the entities in chamber 11. to chamber 11 and grab the portal gun. it's missing as we already Since the elevator will never come back Moving on to chamber 12 for real this time, After opening the door to the exit elevator, If we place a portal here we can throw the cube through the portal to Please do not attempt to remove testing replacement Aperture Science Weighted You may remember this as the same dialogue that This is the only other time this voice line appearance here even more confusing. the cube into the ending room without fizzling it Chamber 13 gives the player control of two so there is a ton of potential for softlocking. to be held down for the exit door to open. would result in a softlock, so added in the starting and ending room. each time a cube enters one of these triggers, If the counter equals 2, one of two If both cubes are locked in the Despite the best efforts of the complimentary escape hatch will But if at least one of the cubes is locked in Despite the best efforts [...] The problem with this system is the room does not cover the entire space. entry elevator where the trigger doesn't when returning to the main chamber. in the ending room, since it covers The fizzler itself increments a different and when this counter reaches 2 another Despite the best efforts [...] Since the fizzler counter is completely fizzling one cube and trapping the counter to reach 2, so we become softlocked. have prevented this, but hey I can still respect Chamber 14 is a very weird map. traveling back and forth across a long hallway fling to the exit extremely easily. chamber has multiple anti-softlock mechanisms; Throwing the cube onto the victory lift would if the cube is inside this trigger for 7 seconds, Despite the best efforts of [...] escape The fizzler in front of the exit elevator does but again -- we can just fling to the exit, Our only hope of becoming softlocked There are plenty of portal surfaces behind the side by portaling across and closing the door. forcibly open the door if the player steps inside. softlocked, but there's still one this chamber that I find hilarious. a trigger that surrounds the button is enabled If the cube ever leaves this This is probably my favorite softlock prevention heavy-handed it is for such a simple action. being the first softlock-proof map in a while. At a glance, chamber 15 looks The only obstacles found throughout the course which aren't vulnerable to softlocking. a lift that lowers and raises the player up to Once the lift is done rising, we are room -- and if we portal back down, But alas, there's a backup trigger here that The only other moving objects in the chamber They can be opened using these pedestal buttons, The intent here is to move the energy pellet through, we end up trapped in this cubby which Through no fault of the Enrichment Center, you have managed to trap yourself in this room. The escape hatch is a sliding door on the of GLaDOS' dialogue, and closes This is done using a trigger in the lower player exits its volume, ensuring the door At first this seems like a pretty but we can actually force the escape door to This is made possible due to how the Source Bounding boxes are, as the name suggests, boxes that encompass the bounds of an object. and they're used for collision detection with The player's bounding box is a bit special When crouching on the ground, the But when crouching in the air, It's this upward shrinking behavior that When the escape hatch opens, our bounding box to enter the trigger below us. By crouching, our bounding box This tricks the door into thinking we did -- just not in the intended manner. you can never escape the Source Chamber 16 is where turrets are introduced, that make them relevant for softlocking. connected with open hallways, so there's very There is a door and button near the end of the while standing on the button, the player is For these reasons, chamber 16 has zero softlock Chamber 17 is a vastly different story. cube to the end of the chamber while using The very first room requires the player to use Losing the cube would make it impossible Okay, not a great start. Valve at least knew that throwing the cube so this is detected and will spawn a new However, the detection trigger for this doesn't so this anti-softlock logic is cube off past the trigger and jumping back down. softlock to work, since the end of the hallway mini-steps back in the first room. the first room is now softlock-proof since Moving on to the main chamber, we have to solve The exit hallway doesn't have any type To prevent the cube from being thrown a physics force on the cube when it's inside. in chamber 01, except the push trigger through it as long as it's being held. by building a camera staircase like Now we can simply walk the into the then jump back down to leave it stranded. in the level up the hallway to prevent us Although this seems like a certified softlocked since there's a fling we can Okay sure, it looks pretty crazy; but just softlock since there always exists a The final area of the map is the so you should already know where this is going. door using the lean(tm), but this is detected Despite the best efforts of Surely there's nothing wrong with the Of course. room is not covered, so if the cube lands here But what if the player gets trapped Well, we can just jump through the door while the The trigger does not detect when the player is The oversights surrounding looking at a beta version of this chamber. chamber 17 did not have the incinerator Instead, the button opened a door A softlock prevention is triggered when but not when the player is trapped behind the Much like chamber 00, the fully updated to accommodate the new level layout. This leaves chamber 17 with a whopping 4 Chamber 18 is another large map that combines Just like chamber 15, the energy orb receiver is contained within a cabinet that can only Locking yourself inside activates time there's no secret escape hatch; the The test itself requires the player to Dropping the cube in the goo To prevent this, there's a trigger beneath the Weighted Storage Cube destroyed. Science Vital Apparatus Vent for a replacement. However, this isn't the only goo pit in we can throw it into the previous room's goo pit. activates the same anti-softlock mechanism. type of chicanery. If we backtrack even further, we come across This hidden area has yet another goo pit, except Throwing the cube down here will not We technically aren't softlocked yet, since we Instead, a camera can be used to prevent the door gap into the next room. We just have to round up every physics prop Now there's absolutely nothing Except we're still not softlocked, since After we die, we respawn in a previous Throughout the map, there are triggers All we have to do is avoid touching one of these until after we've disposed Specifically, there's one right in Once we touch this trigger, we are Not even the sweet release We're not done with chamber softlock method that's unique to this map. seconds after the player steps inside, 05 and the elevator in chamber 18. GLaDOS finishes her end-of-chamber dialogue. order to reach the elevator we must activate In chamber 18 however, the trigger that plays If we could somehow land a portal on the floor elevator while bypassing the dialogue entirely. player to preserve momentum across increasingly The fling is what propells us into the trigger, Unfortunately, it isn't possible the final platform since we don't have In fact, the player's velocity is capped at 1,000 Since we're bumping up against this limit already, But there's a trick we can use us the extra height necessary to make When the player is intersecting a portal and 100 unit per second push away from the portal. but as we saw earlier in chamber 10 We simply have to move our character in the But what if we instead move in This causes the push to add to our This is called a reportal, and we can perform portal somewhere else right as we cross it. 1,000 velocity, we're able to reach the All we have to do now is enter The elevator will never move since GLaDOS never start the dialogue while trapped in the elevator. Chamber 19 is the final test chamber in the segments: the test chamber itself, and the Since these are both part of the same map The main chamber is essentially an auto-scroller There aren't any softlock preventions here, entire platform ride can be skipped using portal Now that we've escaped, the level design Gone are the usual testing elements in favor of the test chambers has been replaced But this doesn't mean we can't There's a section of the level ride back into an old test chamber. where we have to go upward -- and the way There's an invisible platform rises when the player enters the space above it. it will move back down in case If we bring a physics prop into the the platform from fully reaching the I used a chair for this since it consistently -- plus they're everywhere. to the start of the tube to ride it again. shaft, so after we turn the corner and reach the And at this point, we're softlocked. somehow freed, since the platform will get We can make the platform rise again, This all seems very glitchy, but getting is no different than getting a In fact, this platform is actually a The rest of the map lacks any softlock preventions Escape 00 is the first map dedicated This level consists of several open-air rooms There are no doors to open, no cubes to this map is just pure portaling. zero softlock detections and zero Escape 01 is mostly the same story, except the It's a similar situation to the use the cube as a stepping stone to reach Naturally, there's softlock potential There's a fizzler earlier in We can backtrack here to destroy the cube, but this is detected and a new cube will Our second possibility of becoming softlocked is to just throw the cube into But this is also detected, so the cube The shape of this detection trigger only Once we place a portal into the next room, we Now we've finally lost the cube...but this area since we have the ability to But not all hope is lost, as it's still need to look at the beginning area of the map. the starting room once the player The trigger responsible for lowering the pistons This makes it easy to activate the trigger which leaves us trapped and unable to get out. we can softlock in the entire game, as we can At last, we've reached the Similar to the other escape levels, of anything capable of causing a softlock. The door leading to the chamber which locks us in for the upcoming boss fight. since walking through the fizzlers will deactivate of them here for some reason. oversight we can use to our advantage. the door begins closing, despite the This means there's a brief window of time where If we go through and fire both portals, we've Now you might be saying, &quot;Let's just die! chamber since we hit an autosave trigger.&quot; It's true that there's a goo pit at the start instantly crash the game. Entering GLaDOS' chamber activates a giant trigger deletes every NPC and physics object within it. of this trigger, though it's generally not delete the player entity. Dying in Portal creates a physics ragdoll like so you usually never see it. ragdoll is being spawned and deleted Since we can't respawn without forcing the game We can actually use this deletion a different but similar softlock. the door before it closes -- but this to drop and push it through the portal. from existence, so we no longer have a way to These are the only two softlocks and the rest of the map lacks And just like that, we've finally Now that every single chamber has been Here are the amount of softlock In total, there are 25 Valve's biggest concern regarding softlocking as 18 softlock detections are dedicated to them. map that puts the most emphasis on a cube -- has Furthermore, every chamber that lacks cubes...except for chamber 16, where This is all very interesting, but we still haven't developers were at preventing softlocks. glitchless softlocks per chamber. Chamber 17 has 4 separate softlocks, which longest stretch of levels without Other chambers with zero softlocks are 02, chambers where it is impossible to softlock. not it's possible to softlock on a But that's not entirely fair. Valve prevented pretty much every major For most of these softlocks, you really So although there are definitely some from a subjective standpoint I would say the It just so happens that we also did very well in there are a total of 25 softlocks in Portal. 25 preventions, 25 softlocks. and players often find themselves at odds with one Thanks for watching! shoutout to all of my channel members and If you enjoy projects like this, by becoming a member or visiting Raycon's