Before you did movies, you started writing, directing and starring in plays, and that's where you created your signature character, Madea. And let's take a look at no. Actually, if you want to show it, Chris, go ahead, go ahead. What's the matter? That's fine. We'll watch it. Let's see. I don't know what you got to play. What was it? Well, I think I'm going. To look this way. I. Say, all right, folks, please bear with me. Yeah. He's not looking. Please look at. I don't know why you have a problem with it. Here is the Madea in a play. Did you have to tear up her flowers? Y'all act like she didn't know me to win it out. What a swan it out. I was checking out Brian, and flowers just started falling over. What the hell? He put a bra on a dead woman for anyway, when I got on top. Put it back out. If you put a bra on me, I'm gonna come back and see you getting hot. Ain't I be the first ghost in history to bust a cap. And somebody ain't like. I'm so curious. It was your reaction. He didn't look at it, folks. Why? It's. First of all, I've always been extremely uncomfortable in that suit and playing the character, but the audience loves it so much. I was going to do it for one little scene on stage, and the lead character didn't show up, so the character got bigger and bigger every night, and that's where it all started. So I love what it does for people, but the process to get it there and do it and all of that is is a lot. So yeah. Do you feel that way about movies as well as plays about Madea? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. We're going to have a bad time here because I'm going to show a. Lot of Madea. Well, listen, let me explain, though. Who is Madea? Madea is, it's a it's a southern term cross for a cross. Words of mother, dear. But she is based on what I love about my mother and my aunts. But my my mother and aunt are the PG version. She's the PG version of them, right? Really? Oh yeah, that's a PG on. No. So they're NC 17, but she but but she is definitely pay homage to all of the black women in my life who helped for me, to help me become the man I am, to just really inform everything about my life. So she is somebody who would love you and take care of you, but punch you in the face if you said the wrong thing. Well. That's Madea and. And what is the Chitlin circuit? And is it true that at one point this is before movies, that you had 35,000 people a week going to see your plays on the Chitlin circuit and got 100, sold $100 million in tickets. Yeah, yeah, yeah, what the chitlin circuit is, and it's still around today, but it's not called that anymore. But it was very much a circuit where black performers could go and perform when they weren't allowed in white establishments doing Jim Crow. And what happens is black people would support their own and make them huge stars. I mean, you could look at Billie Holiday and I could go to list Ray Charles and all these people who, who toured, became super famous among their own people and then eventually crossed over. So when I started doing plays, I was there was there was no segregation then. So I was playing it a lot of the same establishments that were once segregated, but it was to that predominantly black audience all through the south, packing these houses to the rafters from from week to week. And that's where it all started for me. So when I got to Hollywood, I had tremendous success, with all of this reinforcement from my audience. So I went in with a different sense of sensibility. I, I'm a little bit hesitant because I'm about to show another clip. Okay, I'm with you. All right. Okay. All right. I mean, that's kind of good. Yeah. Okay. All right. in 2006, you turn that play into a film, a madea's Family Reunion, in which you played not only Madea, but also her brother Joe. Yeah. Let's take a look. Now move on, man, step aside. That time just put you down. Yeah. She did. She don't know us. We Baptist. We are terrace chair Joe. Oh, you don't know me. I was set it off up in here. I'm telling. I will do a drive by. Miss church. You may be glad to have church. Jesus just saved your life. Hallelujah. She don't know me at all. To you, I'm a thug. I'm a real fellow. I shot Tupac, I did the first time we was knocking over a parking spot. I ain't kill him. No, that wasn't me. Well, I can you shake their head. I've watched this for the first time three weeks ago. I think it's brilliant. Thank you. I appreciate that, I. I'm not denying that. It's great and funny. I enjoy it, but again, that's I have to disassociate. That's actually me in that. In that now. Oh man. Joe I'm fine with for some reason but her is this. Yeah. Yeah that's a little sexist isn't that? Well, listen. I gotta say, for somebody who's a little embarrassed or uncomfortable with Madea, you've been playing her for 15. How many years? Yeah. But yeah, 2009, I think. But here's the thing. The audience won't let it go back. Even the last time I did, I said, come out, I'm not doing it anymore. And then the world goes upside down. We have the president and the new president. Just so I wanted to make people laugh. So I said, what do I have? Pull her out, put the movie on Netflix. It's number one everywhere. Yeah. Like it's great. Okay. Yeah, yeah. But the minute people stop coming to see her, that old broad is that she's dead. But is that for sure? Can you give us a little Madea? Why? I'm not doing that. Would you quit for a while? But I just don't have, like. Daughters of a while. I'm not doing it with you. But listen, I, as long as I can't turn my back on the very thing that brought me over, I'll never do that. My mother told me. Keep madea around before she died. So as long as people want to see it, she'll be around. So I seriously, I want a medical update after the garage fire, which was serious. You said that you got a new face and a new ear. What does that mean? Well, that means I got a new face and a new ear. I mean ear when you. When you catch fire, there's no bone. Ears like paper. They go up, so they they make you a new one and they. Can I say. Yeah, sure. And can I see the other one? They look the same. Yes. I had a very good doctor. Well what's this made up? It's it's artificial skin. I think it is. Really. Yeah, yeah. And then what about your face? Well, I guess, you know, people think that, the skin grafts are expensive. I have a friend who is a model, and he gave me a bag of boy. Oh, you can't even, You can't even tell. It must be 5060. It's funny. It doesn't look like foreskin. No, no, but when they get excited. Well, never mind. yeah. Yeah, I walked right into that face. Take there. So how unhappy is the Secret Service when you go out for a ride with the president of the United States and he's driving himself? Oh, it's really I mean, they they don't they don't slow him down. Bob. Bob, gotta love that. I mean, you know, we're at the Secret Service training facility. Look like public streets, but. And it is public streets and everything. Except it's not public. It's right. It's it's where they teach some defensive driving and all that kind of stuff. So yeah, it was I mean, we'll go pretty quick. I mean, when we, you know, Biden got a Corvette in 67, he still has it. And I think he hit 128. We hit it on 28 miles an hour and a 50 year old car. So. And you with the president United States, which is very funny. Yeah. That's the Corvette. That's where he was hiding his secret document. Right? Right. Exactly, exactly. Where did you come away with any secret? He's a funny man because he and I driving it and then documents. What the. That I saw that online. It really made me laugh. Yeah. As you've honed your craft over the years, what's your process for writing a joke? How do you come up with a premise and how do you make it funny? Can you I mean, can you put that into words? Well, the trick is to keep doing what you always did when you were broke. Like, I travel by myself, people go, why do you do that? Because nothing funny happens to you if other people are doing things for you. I mean, I had some I was in Las Vegas last week. Do it as I was at the Wynn Hotel. It's like the big five fancy hotel, and I'm in the men's room on the main floor and I go in. I let me wash my hands, so I go in the sink, you know, I put my hand on the thing, I'm going right. Going to turn on electronically. So the guy, what's wrong with this other guy goes, I got to turn the faucet. What? It was over here that I went, oh, I remember and I thought, now see if if I was with somebody, that wouldn't have happened. I mean, it was just it just made me a cop. What do you mean? When you travel with people, do they turn on the faucet? I just look like a bad magician. And people are watching me, and I'm doing this, like, what's he doing? Do you still go to a comedy club in Hermosa Beach? I've been there every Sunday since 1978. What I'm trying to do almost 50 years. Yeah. And to try out new material. Jimmy Carter was president. When and how big is the club? That's in 350, something like that. So Jay Leno, the host of The Tonight Show, is in this comedy club in Hermosa Beach. Why? Oh. Well, that's how you find out if it's any good or not. It's how you find out if something's funny. You know, when you're on TV, there's a laugh button. You know, a lot of times, you see, comedians will do a monologue on The Tonight Show and it gets big laughs. They go to a club and people like it doesn't seem that funny, because if they're primed to laugh, then they'll laugh. But when you got to turn them around, you know. And is it true that you sometimes tell a joke badly on purpose? Oh, yeah. No. Well, what I usually do is when I go to a club, I'll say, here's some jokes. I'm going to try out for the monologues. And I read them as flat and as dull as possible to see if the joke was funny. You know, it was something I got from Johnny. Johnny came to see me one time. I assume this is Johnny Carson. Johnny Carson, right? Right. And he called me. He said, he said, you know, you're a good performer. You're a funny guy. But the material is a little weak. He says you should do the material, try to just read the jokes somewhere, somewhere. If the joke gets a laugh, then add the loud voice. You know, whatever the funny characterization, whatever, to make it funnier. But when you rely on just just the air, it's not enough, you know? So you get up there and you read a joke flat out like that, get a laugh. Okay? Now you act it out and you find out that's how it works. Finally, yeah, at age 73, you strike me as somebody who can't and won't retire. Well, I'm sure when I have my stroke, I'll retire. I mean, that's. Well, I better not. I mean, you know, I run your life long after we've done this interview, but I'm hoping that you're going to. Like, doing something. It's fun to do. And of course, at this age, they're stunned that you're still alive. So they got moves. Like I tell if plant this club, he might be dead next year. Let's go see him. And actually it actually helps. And you get out of that. Let's see him before you goes. Yeah. You get a lot of that I know, but but now you're sort of like, oh, you're, you know, you're the legend, you're the late and I, but I mean, an awful lot of young people, man. People, guys in the men and women in their 40s and early 50s who grew up watching me on The Tonight Show with their dad or their grandparents. And I like it because, you know, when you host that show, you just think you're awful. You think everybody hates you. Because especially when all this stuff was going, I, you know, Howard Stern, everybody every day just pounding you every day. So you think, okay, just keep my head down, plow forward, and then you find out there are people actually, like, did. Those eyes those guys surprise! It's the crying game. I remember watching it and falling out of my chair. Yeah, yeah. Very good. No, you. Very good. This is your Monday voice. Do you know you see a pair of dancing eyes? Your hand starts moving up her thighs. You hurry to a spot, she's hot to trot for this. It's something. Those eyes, those. Those surprise! It's the crying game. Ralph Edwards had this show where he would take a celebrity or somebody. And the person thought he was going, like to a conference or something at some meeting. Yeah, they suddenly. Look away thing and he'd say, oh, Phil Silvers, this is your life. And then the guy would say, oh no, that get him to a studio and they sit him on a couch and bring out all these people from the past, and they would do these voiceovers. I remember at the time that you or I were in school and we'd have, oh, God, is that is that good? And then they would be reunited. Yes. So said played basically take off a load times. He did not want his life done and it's hilarious. But they try to get him up on stage. Carl is sort of the Ralph Edwards guy and he's they're fighting. It's him. And then they bring out a character named Uncle Goopy. Uncle goopy was Howard Morris. It was a diminutive man. And he's. And when they when they're reunited, all he does is weep. He just cries. But it's a funny cry. It's. And then he jumps on. Said who was the strongest man in show business. And he carries him around the set. And then he drops him down and he picks him up with one arm and each drag and they're both crying. He's on his leg. He's they put him on a couch. I remember that now. I remember he's walking and yeah. He's hanging around like that. And he puts him on a chair. On his lap and. Then he drops on it. So I just, I just went crazy for that, for Uncle Goofy and when my dad would come home from the store from from work, it was my bedtime. I'm the youngest of three and and the smallest of the three. When he would say, time for bed, I jump on his back and we just laugh the way that they that they cried. But we would laugh. He dragged me on his leg and throw me in the bed. I jump on his bed. So uncle. So when I got to meet Howard and Sid and Carl and Imogene, at Comic Relief, that I did with Robin and Whoopi, we honored them. And I saw Sid for the first time, and Howard and I grabs his leg, and it's one of my favorite. Pictures, like Uncle Goofy. Yeah, yeah. At the height of the show, you came out with a book called Dirty Jokes and Beer. Yeah. Question. You love dirty jokes, don't you love them? Yeah, love dirty jokes. So some of my favorite jokes are dirty jokes. So we're here on Max. Almost anything goes. Tell me a filthy joke. This is a joke. I told the price of our audience that you have to use a swear word. Guy wakes up in the morning and hears a voice in his head. The voice says, quit your job. Sell your house, take all your money. Go to Vegas. He doesn't believe that the he doesn't believe the voice. He goes to work. He hears the voice again. Quit your job. Sell your house. Take all your money. Go to Vegas. Finally, here's a voice. Every five minutes he finally he believes a voice. He gets home. He quits his job, sells his house, takes the first offer, takes all his cash, flies to Las Vegas. He gets off the plane. The voice says, go to Caesar's Palace. So he goes to Caesar's Palace. The voice says, go to the third roulette table on the left. It goes to the third roulette table on the left before he says, put it all on black 17. He puts it all on black. 17. The guy spins the wheel, comes up red. 16 the voice goes, fuck! Well, that's a good that's a good one for The Price is right. I tell you, it doesn't work with darn. No, no, not nearly as good. Shoot. And Georgia supposedly based on you. So same question. How do you live with. So I live with myself. it's again it's not easy. Yeah, it is not easy. I don't know. I just try and get into a routine. And so if I do the same thing tomorrow that I'm doing today without, of course, seeing you, I I've, I've got through it and. Okay, do the same thing. You'll get through that one too. So I have to have I have to have a very regimented life. I don't like traveling. I don't like going anywhere. I like I like going to the office. I like going to the office. I like playing golf. I like being in my house. I'm so dull and uninteresting. I really don't enjoy being out and socializing and making small talk. I don't know, is it. A bit that you're doing for me. Or. No, it's not a bit. It's not a bit. It's not a bit. Ask anybody loves. So what I do you know what I wish it was a bit. I wish it was, I longed to be somebody else. I, I wish I could enjoy things that most people enjoy. but I can't. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, something something went off somewhere. Yeah. Something went terribly. Wrong. Something went wrong. Chris. Although I do have a story to tell you. And I went to dinner with your lovely wife, Ashley. Yeah. Last fall. And you very nicely picked up the tab. And the next day I wrote you, I thought a very gracious thank you note, and you then responded, and I have saved this. And I literally got that you wrote back to me and you said, keep in mind, next time when you pick up the check, you will not be getting the next day. Thanks. Yeah. What? What's so objectionable about me? Thank you. Do we have to give out? I gave one, no, I understand, but if you. If you take me out to dinner and I say, hey, Chris, thank you so much. What do I have to do? Where does it say I have to send something the next day? But why? I'm not what everybody sending all this the next day. Thank you, thank you, thank somebody when you leave. That's enough. I wanted to do it. I'm not asking you to send me a thank you note. I sent you a thank you note, but you had to respond to it. I know, because I just wanted you to know in advance that I wasn't going to send you a next day. Thank you. Text. If you took me out to dinner the next time, I was going to thank you after the dinner, before I got in my car. Thanks so much. I really appreciate it. And you, thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. And that's sufficient. You don't need a next day text, do you? What do you need the next day text? I kind of would appreciate it because otherwise you've just gone in the car, you've driven off, you've never given a second thought to me. I know what, yes, I was wrong. Like I said, thank you. I understand, but it was a momentary thank you. It means to at least last till the next day. I think that's ridiculous. So? So tell me something else. And every day, social interaction that that, you know, kind of greases the wheels of humanity that you think is stupid. I mean, there's 12 seasons worth of it, like the Happy New Year. I don't understand why anybody would say Happy New Year to me. I can't even respond to it on a text. Happy New Year. Why? Why are you sending that to me? I don't, I don't care, I don't care about a new year. What's the difference? What's the difference? It's happy New year. What does it even mean? Well, it does even a better question, which I think it was actually one of your episode. How long after January 1st? Yeah. Do you have to keep saying how about another words? Yes, I was nice and said January 7th, but now I'm, I'm revising that to January 3rd. January 3rd. Yeah. That's it, that's it. Do people come up to you and sort of say it could be, you know, almost like a rabbi? How long do I have to say how. Yeah, I do, yeah. I get questions like this. And, and and you pronounce. Yeah. And I have a, I have answers for all of them. So January 3rd. I'm, I'm changing it to January 3rd. Yeah. Yeah. And here's the thing. Because I'm Jewish, I also get the Happy New Year in September at the at the Russia shop. Yes. Oh yeah. And I get it then. So I'm getting a twice a year and I don't. It's a nightmare. I don't need it. Don't don't wish me happy New Year I don't even care if you wish me happy birthday. What do you think about that? Well, now we're really treading on sacred ground here. Like. No. That's fine. How do you. Think this is interesting? But but yeah, I've said this, and, I'm, I think I did a movie where I talked about this, that the birthday is turned into a job. You're getting 25, 30 texts of happy birthday. They all have to be answered and it's a job. But like I agree with that. But but here's the interesting question. Do you agree that you have to respond to the Happy Birthday text? I have to say something. You have to know that if I send you a happy birthday and you don't respond, I consider it a snub. Yeah. Just stop. Fact I question the whole basis of our relationship. Yeah. So what I'm saying is I would rather not get the happy birthday text because I have to return it. That's all I'm saying. I'd rather not get it. If you want to say it in person. If you see me. Hey. Happy birthday. Hey, thanks. Happy birthday. But don't send me a text that I have to return. That's a job. No, no, I I, I was saying, God forbid it was. On the birthday. Yes, I do agree with you on the birthday and I. And God forbid, it's a big birthday like you and I are almost exactly the same age. I think you're like four months older than I am. 75 a nightmare. Yeah, a nightmare because you're going to get a lot. And it's not a birthday you really want to celebrate to begin with. And now suddenly you got to respond to everybody. It's a nightmare. Exactly. So, you know, if there's anything that I can do to change the change that I like. I'll sign up. For the matter of fact. Well, you enlisted me. So. So you would rather let me get this straight now? You would rather people not say happy, happy birthday, send you a text, a happy birthday text because you have to return it, right? You agree? Yes. Except that I have to say I'm a bit of a hypocrite because I do send people happy birthday text. But guess what? After today, never again. Or you could do this happy birthday! No need whatsoever to reply to this happy birthday text. Please don't. In fact, please don't. There you go. Thanks so much for watching. Be sure to subscribe to CNN's YouTube channel so you never miss the best of my conversations. And you can catch the full interviews of Who's Talking streaming right now on Macs.