Voiceover: Any sequence whatever pattern looks fun. All your favorite celebrities followed by random numbers, whatever. All of that plus every sequence each of those are the decimal places of a badly named so called real number and any of those sequences with one random digit changed is another real number. That's the thing most people don't realize about the set of all real numbers. It includes every possible extending infinitely among There's no last digit. The number of digits is any counting number which makes it an Just barely an infinite number of digits because it's only barely greater than any finite number but even though it's only infinity of digits. This infinity is still no joke. It's still big enough, that for example point nine repeating is and not epsilon less. You don't get that kind equals one action unless your infinity really is infinite. You may have heard that some infinities are bigger than other infinities. This is metaphorically resonant and all but whether infinity really exists or if anything can last forever or whether a life Those aren't the kind of questions you can answer with math but if life does contain infinite moments, one for each real number time, that you can do math to. This time, we're not just We're going to prove it. Understanding different infinities starts with some really basic questions like is five bigger than four. You learned that it is but how do you know? Because this many is more than this many, they're both just one except to fold it into Unless you're already abstracting out the idea of numbers and how you learn they're suppose to work just as you learned a long life is supposed to be somehow rather than just a life equal to any other but folded into a different shape. Yeah, metaphorically resonate that. Is five and six bigger than 12? Five and six is two things after all and twelve is just one thing If I want to make up a how would I know whether and not just the same infinity folded into a different shape? The way five plus five is just another shape for 10. One way to make a big number is to take a number of This is where a box has two things and is with only the number 12. You could take the number and put them in a box and you'd have a box set of five or you could take the number of numbers that are five which is one or you could take the or the number of real numbers. It's kind of funny that the is not itself a counting number but an infinite number often referred to as aleph null. This size of infinity is usually because it's like counting infinitely but I like James Grime's way of calling it listable infinity because basically make an infinite list and many other numbers of You can put all positive whole numbers on an infinite list like this. You can put all whole numbers by alternating. You can list all whole numbers along with all half way You can even list all the rational numbers by cleverly going through of one whole number divided All countably infinite numbers of things, all aleph null. Countable infinity is like saying if I make an infinite I can list all the things. The weird thing is that it should be obvious that no matter of course you can list all of them. If your list is literally infinite but nope so back to the reals. Say you want to list all the real numbers. If you did, it could but the specifics don't matter because we're about to prove that there's too many real numbers to fit even on an infinite list no matter how clever What matters is the any real number you want, out of an infinite sequence of digits and we're going to use this that couldn't possibly be on the list no matter what the list is even though the list is infinite. All we need to do that is that isn't the first number on the list and isn't the second number on the list and isn't any number on the list no matter what the list is. Here's where I'm sure some Cantor's diagonal proof. Indeed my friends, In the first number on the list, the first digit is one. If I make a new number then even the rest of there's no way my new number is equal to the first number on the list though the rest of the digits probably aren't all the same anyway. The second number on the We don't know if this new but I can make sure my is not the second number on the list by making the second digit five or eight or whatever and I can make my number on the list by making the third digit five instead of three again. I mean the new number from the third number on the list but I don't even have to as long as I know that one of them definitely conflicts which comes in handy when I get to the 20 billion and oneth number on the list and I don't have to check against the 20 billion digits I've constructed so far to be sure that my new number is not the same as the 20 billion and oneth number. There's one digit in my number for every number on the list which means I can make to not match every no matter what the list is. Which means there's more on an infinite list. This works no matter what the list is. Take the diagonal and or add five or whatever. You can't actually sit down or infinite number though. Here's another way to think We're trying to create one set of numbers to another. You can map all the counting numbers to all the whole numbers with a simple minus one function or with a times two function and map all the even numbers back to all the counting numbers division by two. You can map all the real to all the real numbers by doing a times 10 function and find every number has a place to go, they match one to one. The question is, is there a function that maps every real number or even just the real to a unique counting Cantor's diagonal proof that claims to math counting numbers and reals to each other In fact you're not just than fits on an infinite list or else you could just There's not just another infinite list of numbers you're missing or else you could zipper You could take every digit on the diagonal and add either two or four to get infinite combinations of numbers that aren't on the list and you can make a function that maps those missing numbers to Of course the binary numbers are just another way of writing the reals which means an infinite will quite literally Next to the infinity of the reals, the infinity of infinite list is actually mathematically because countable infinity it's infinite. The infinity of the reals is beyond that what can we indicated a bigger infinity, a We've gone beyond aleph null. This is aleph one maybe. Yeah funny thing that turns out there's no way to tell how than aleph null. Just that it's bigger like or there might be other but which one of those is the case? It's kind of independent Awkward. But whatever it is, those are just two out of an infinite For every aleph number, there's which I guess kind of are like infinities folded into different shapes and don't forget hyper real supernaturals, or reals, etcetera. I guess you could squeeze if you're into those axioms. I don't judge. Some of my best friends Anyway, some infinities are but a mathematician would probably say something more like I don't know, there exists an aleph alpha and aleph beta where aleph alpha is greater than aleph beta or something which is perfectly true. Whether those different apply to something like What we do know is that if or infinite love or infinite being then a life twice as long still has exactly the same amount. Some infinities only look and some infinities that seem very small are worth just as much as