It's already June, fully summer. How have you all been? These are the flowers my husband bought me for our 10th wedding anniversary. If there's one saying I didn't understand before, it's the old saying that time passes faster as you get older. It wasn't until I became a housewife of 10 years that I realize what it means. Today, I'm going to organize my house with popular products from IKEA. Once you go to an IKEA store, you won't be able to stop... The first product to introduce is a small drawer that fits on the refrigerator shelf. Just put the rubber on both sides and you're done. Simple, right? It's a small drawer that fits into any spare space above or below. I put small snacks lying around in the refrigerator and they fit easily. I like it even more because it doesn't take up space and isn't too big. This is my favorite IKEA product! One of IKEA's best sellers! This is a rotating tray used in refrigerators. There were many times when it was annoying to have to take out the container in front to take out the side dishes from behind, but this tray is perfect for those times! When I tried to buy it before, I couldn't because it was sold out. It's a product worth waiting for because I feel happy every time I use it. It's so easy to take out the side dishes from behind just by turning it, right? This is a wire basket with a divider added to the original product that only had a handle! The one I bought was a deep basket, but there are also shallower ones. It's great for organizing other things, but I bought it to store onions and potatoes. We eat onions and potatoes often, so we put them out in a box in the kitchen. Since I'll be eating it all in a few days, it's convenient to store it in a shaded area like this. It has good ventilation through the holes, and has a divider and handle, making it easy to lift and move. It's a brush into which you can add detergent. How convenient it is to have detergent come out when you just press it like this! It's especially good for cleaning sinks or greasy stainless steel frying pans. The detergent isn't too harsh, and it's a small but truly unique item. It's a foldable multi-purpose basin that I like in its refreshing yellow color. It can be folded and stored so it takes up less space, and it has a hole so you can hang it up. It would be nice to move it around and use it when washing hats, dishcloths, etc. by hand. This cable holder is just what we need in our house to keep the charger cables from getting caught on the floor . It's a set of 3, and I like that the wire attachment holes come in two different sizes. Oh, so neat! It was an item I really needed. It's a suction toothbrush holder that allows you to hang a cup next to it. Now you don't have to lift and wipe every item on the sink when cleaning. IKEA suction products don't come off easily. It's easy to use lightly, and thanks to this, the top of the sink becomes cleaner! This is a squeegee that has been used in every bathroom for a long time. It's not only great for cleaning mirrors, but also for removing moisture from glass or tiles after a shower. The price is reasonable, and it's a must-have bathroom cleaning item in our house. So many small water toys By leaving bulky soaps and toys in the bathtub, water rings started forming. The IKEA suction basket is an especially great product to use in children's bathrooms! It has the advantage of being sturdy enough to be used with just suction without having to make a hole in the wall. When attaching it to a wall, it must be attached to a flat surface without grooves. You must clean the tile cleanly before attaching it to ensure it sticks well. When attaching the suction, if you press the round part hard, the air will escape and it will stick. There's a hole at the bottom for water to drain, and it's spacious so I can put various things in it The last product I'm going to introduce is a shoe storage box. The top and bottom are sturdy so the sides don't get messed up, and it has a handle so it's comfortable. Shoes that are out of season are put in a box like this. When I had to take them out and put them on, I didn't know where they were so it took me a long time to find them. The SKUBB box has a mesh front, so air flows through it well, and most of all, I like it because I can see what's inside, so I don't have to open it all to find it! It has a handle so it's easy to put it in and take it out, and it's nice to be able to organize it neatly. It's a set of 4, so I only bought two sets, but I plan on buying more the next time I go. I'm increasingly realizing that it's true that housekeeping is about picking up items. As time goes by, smarter and better products that were previously unimaginable emerge. I often use IKEA because its prices and quality are above average. (But what about the prices these days..? They've gone up too much, right?) If I come up with a good product in the future, I'll share it with you all! Thank you for watching today's video. Take care of your health as the weather gets hotter.