Translator: Ines Azabou Finding insperation is not the hardest part Musical ideas are all around us, but sifting through them to find something not only to yourself is the real challenge. Hi, my name is Jackson Jhin, I am a composer And what if I could show you So here is the end result Pachelbel's Canon in D. (Music) Now, even if you don't know this chord progression is used and is heard in weddings, graduations, But how exactly did Pachelbel know Well, he had commissions, audiences, and audiences that gave him applause But he would also stress the importance which states that and all these types of progressions are crucially important But if we look on the other side some cultures don't even use much less the same harmonies or scales, so then what is it that defines music? What if you were born Then what would music sound like to you? So, on this island, we find a coconut. (Pangs) It sounds like this. Pretty basic noise, But let's make it What if we find two sticks? It sounds like this. (Tapping) Now, if I were to play this sound how many of you would consider this music, or better yet, how many of you (Laughter) Kick me off the island. But we find more sticks, and then now we can change Now we get something (Music) A lot more interesting. So now what I'm going to do (Music) now this is a lot more but what we are going to do Now what you have (Laughter) but a very interesting counterpoint And lastly, to bring this imagine that we are in a cave. (Reverberating sound) And now what you have is the interaction the echo creating something predictable but yet inherently interesting. So by raise of hands, how many of you'd consider than just the coconut we started out with? Awesome, it looks like So then, what is it that defines music? Music is fundamentally the balance between predictability and variability. Now this is important because you you want it to be interesting, but, at the same time, if you can't anticipate it's too chaotic. So I'll show you what I mean. We take out one of these, A famous modern composer, Philip Glass, is known for using very repetitive music that sounds just like this, very predictable without much variation. So let me play a little bit for you. (Music) on and on and on. This piece is an hour (Laughter) That's crazy. And on the other extreme, let's take out predictability, We get complete variability with no anticipation Another modern composer, John Cage, is famous for playing without much anticipation and in this particular piece, he uses a feather to stroke I'll show you what I mean. (Music) So imagine that for an hour (Laughter) Now, I don't personally enjoy John Cage's Some people are that can like very predictable music (Laughter) But for the most of us, we need it to be balanced So what's an example of this? Well, actually, Pachelbel's Canon in D What we have here (Music) is a piece that is balanced very well, with each chord sharing at least one note a very steady tempo and chord progression, with a very interesting What does this all mean? Translation: it's well balanced So, what we are going to do take the intentional and see what happens then. So what I have done is cut this up and with the help of the audience - Could I please have a number Right here. Seven. Okay! A different number, please! Seven, four ... between one and eight! (Laughter) Seven, four, two - seven, four, two, three, six. We have seven, four, two, three, six. Now, what I am going to do (Music) Over and over ... And what we have is something and honestly pretty bad. So, with the help from the audience, we have just destroyed one (Laughter) But that is easy, you just have to take things but what if we could transform noise So this next sound I have - (Beeping) I can already see that this may sound like something more that you try to hit in the morning But what if we change a variable So let's change pitch. So instead of this ... (Beeping) we change pitch and we get this ... (Music) A lot more interesting, right? And then next, we are going and see if we can make this We get this. (Music) So, how many of you think than just the alarm clock itself? (Laughter) I would rather wake up to this as well. But what does all this mean? Some people do have preferences and our preferences Some people may like some people might like more variation; however, the majority of us of predictability and variability Every day, when we listen to music, we use very strict frameworks, to tell us exactly what music and what instruments but the next time you listen to something or isn't appealing at first, don't press skip, give it a chance, focus on the balance Thank you. (Applause)