- Today on America's Test Kitchen, Bridget makes Julia fresh peach pie with all-butter lattice top. And Jack talks about sweeteners. It's all coming up right here (upbeat music) - The only thing better of peach pie in the height of summer, when peaches are at their best, make it for you. - Make it with you. - (Julia laughs) Touche. - We're gonna make this juicy, succulent, gorgeous crust. And that's where we start. - Okay. - Okay. And we're using so you know it's gonna be delicious. But we wanna make sure still stands up to the peach juices, but it has a little bit of - Okay. - So we're going to use a But for our first part, we're going to grate four tablespoons. I'm just going to take a pairing knife and score it right at four tablespoons and make my way around here. Just go through the wrapper. - Leave yourself a handle. - I've got a butter handle. Makes it easier to snack on. (Julia laughs) And I'm gonna grade this right - Smooth like butter. - Oh it is. And once you start getting to the wrapper. - Yeah, take it easy there. - All right. So let me - Okay. - So I'll put the graded and we wanna get this super when we go to roll out the dough later on. So I'm gonna put it in the freezer. It just takes a few moments - Okay. - We've got some flour in here. I've got one and a half That's seven and a half ounces. I'm going to add a little bit of sugar, two tablespoons here. And I've got some salt here. This is a teaspoon of All right, and I'm just gonna until it's incorporated. All right. I mentioned more butter. 16 tablespoons of super cold butter. So just pile these in. Break em up, about half inch pieces. And now I'm gonna let this whirl If I have to go in there But I really want that butter at this point, make it almost waterproof. Et voila. - You really made a dough out of that. - I love this method an easy to roll out pie dough that's still really nice So we're gonna break that All right. So that's all broken up. Now I'm going to add a This is another cup, five And we're going to use that to So lid goes back on, I'm gonna pulse this four to five pulses. And what I'm looking for to be about an inch. - Okay. - All right, let's take a look. I'm gonna use this little spatula here. So you see there's some bigger Looking pretty good though. - Yeah. That's looking more at this point. - Exactly. All right. So now I'm into a bowl here, but if you can you go get that butter that I graded? - You bet. - Here you are my darling. This is the super cold, Now this is going to go You could use a spatula for this, but I really like to get in the butter. Make sure that it's coated All right. So this is looking pretty good. Last ingredient for our pie - Yep. - So I'm using a total of a half a cup. It's okay if a couple of I'm gonna start off with a quarter. And at this point, obviously it's not going but I'm looking for most and kind of evenly dispersed. - Mmhmm - That looks pretty good. - Starting to look a little more crumbly. - Yep. - All right. Now I need another quarter And now I'm just going to toss this. - Half a cup of water for That's a lot of water for a pie dough, but that's why it's so easy to roll out. - That's true. And it's also, don't forget, - That's right. And now I'm just going to toss this and mix it with a spatula here until it starts to form a dough. Pressing this into a mass so I can really see what There we go. We're gonna Doesn't have to be perfectly There we go. And you can feel You want it moist enough so that it's going to Just going to take my plastic wrap, start to kind of shove it into a disc. - Love this method. - I'm looking for a five inch disc, but I just wanna get it so or cracks. And at this point I can start to pad it All right. So that looks great. Now I'll do it with the second round. And then after that, these are and they'll stay there until and the pie dough is hydrated. That's gonna take a minimum of two hours, but you can leave it Mmmm. - Oh goodness. That smells good. - I've got three pounds Now you want them a little bit soft. Not too soft because we wanna peel them, and it's really easy to peel But if they're too ripe, you can still use 'em in this recipe. You're just going to need You can go check that out on So now I just wanna get rid of the skins, little fuzzies here. - Now have you ever used a - They're fabulous for that as well. - Yeah. - So just a little shimmy. When they get little slippery, sometimes you don't wanna So now we need to get rid of the pit. Peach holder. Just gonna take a knife and Rotate the peach, just like that. - Oh, you hit the lottery. - That's a nice little, free stone. All right. So each of these So quartering each whole peach. And then each of these halves, I'm just gonna cut into thirds. - Nice big junks. - Yes. Peaches are generous fruit. (Julia laughs) They love to share their And in a pie that's not such a good thing. Cause you'll end up with - Mmhmm and a soggy crust. - We do not want that. We want to contain the peaches, control the peaches if you will. So I'm going to macerate these peaches and it's going to help to But for now, again, that's and a half a cup of granulated sugar, tablespoon of freshly This is a teaspoon of graded lemon zest and a pinch of salt. This is an eighth teaspoon of salt, just enough to heighten the flavor. I'm gonna toss these. - Ugh, I could eat those right now. I'm starting, mouth's starting Those look so glossy and the is outta this world. - So I need to leave this be, I'm gonna let these sit here at room temp, so you can leave it for an hour. And during that time the sugar is going to start to pull (upbeat music) - Now you may think sugar is just sugar. It's sweet and otherwise I'm here to tell you otherwise. And in fact, I keep seven different Let me explain why. Now we're gonna start you already have, which This is from either sugar It is the most versatile choice. But it's close cousin Superfine is really the where you want the sugar and where gritty texture Sponge cake, shortbread, meringues. Now if you get caught you can simply throw granulated 15, 20 seconds, and you're that's a pretty close approximation. Next up is confectioner sugar. Now this is basically with a little bit of corn starch added. Now you could replicated but it's gonna take a long time. Honestly you should just buy it. You're gonna need it for making glazes and for making candies. Next up, molasses. Now This is a byproduct of When it comes to molasses Mild, unsulfured, robust, It's really quite bitter. In addition to baked goods, we often use a little bit of where we want a hint of sweetness, but we want the complexity that comes with molasses. Now I mentioned molasses differentiates the brown I've got dark brown sugar Basically the dark brown sugar The light brown sugar has just 3 or 4%. If you're somebody who's your brown sugar is rock hard, you can take a cup of granulated sugar and either a tablespoon of or two tablespoons of and make a quick Last but not least on the table I've got turbinado sugar here. It's Demerara sugar, sugar in the raw. It has these really hard granules. And the reason why that's it's really not a substitute It won't dissolve and you in the finished product. Now it is lovely for sprinkling on top of, let's say muffins for instance. Or if you want to create a this turbinado sugar, So sugar, there's a reason in my pantry. (upbeat music) - I told you I was gonna put you to work. - And I like it. (Bridget laughs) - It's time to roll out our dough. Again, it chilled for a good two hours. We let it sit out for about 10 minutes so it's a bit more malleable. - Yeah, it feels perfect. - And I need you to get that dough round until it's about 12 inches. Now, in the meantime, I'm until a 13 by 10 and a half We are making lattice. - Aha. - Anytime you're working a lattice top pie is perfect. Allows for evaporation of - That's right. - That's right. It is pretty. All right. - So 12 inches for me. And you wanna see my cool technique? - Do I. - Oh, cause you're going in a square, so you're starting it in a square shape. - I kind of start it in a square shape. - That makes sense. And I like what you're doing there. You are rotating the - I'm a spinner. - What's great about and especially important is anytime it gets warm, and put it right back into the fridge and let it cool down again. - Let's see how I'm doing here. Oh, just shy of 12 inches, which is good. Cause now I can start to really It's a little thin over here. All right, Bridget, how are you? - I'm perfect. - It's pretty round. - All right. - I've got a nine inch pie plate for you. - Oh, a nice heavy one. So if you wouldn't mind rolling - Got it. Using my rolling pin as a nice way to transfer Captain, we have made it. - That is gorgeous. Yep, if you could just loosely - You bet. - Now I've got 13 inches this way and I'm looking for 10 So this is lookin great. - Sure does. - All right. So I've got little bit of parchment on it. And I'm just going to transfer the dough right onto that. And like you, I'm gonna cover it loosely All right. We just don't - Yep. - And then these are going and we want them to get nice and chilled. And we keep 'em in there - Okey-doke. (upbeat music) The lattice dough is nice and chilled. We can cut strips. - This is one of my favorite parts. - So one of the things that I wanna do is kind of tidy up these edges. So I'm going to take about a quarter inch off of the long edges using my ruler as a guide here. There you go. - Hmm. - This creates that nice - Mmhmm. - So now I want to cut eight, Luckily for us, the ruler is So I'm just gonna line Don't wanna use too much pressure, and then keep moving down the line. All right, I'm gonna keep cutting these until I have eight strips. Then after that I'll put them and put 'em back in the fridge. Let 'em chill for 30 minutes. - Okey-doke. - Look at what a half an - Those are some juicy peaches. - A lot of that liquid has They've broken down a So now we wanna create Yeah. Think about it. We've got these big chunks a little bit of that peach We don't want the whole Just enough. - So I'm going to take a cup of peaches. Super juicy peaches. Just put it in a little bowl. Now I'm gonna mash this with a fork. All right. This is starting Takes a little effort at first. So I'm gonna set this For the rest of the peaches, because we wanna separate the So right through a calendar - Oh goodness. - Look at the color of - It's incredible. - All right. So I'm gonna put the If I could hand that to you. - You bet. - We want to collect a half - You're good. - That's it? - Half a cup. I'm gonna go and we'll get back to Now, when it comes to thickening peach pie or any kind of fruit pie, you know, we love a lot of for different reasons. There's We're gonna use two different kinds here. I've got a tablespoon of corn starch and I'll sprinkle it That's not a lot of thickener. - Just enough to absorb that comes out after this point. - That's right. So this is not the only So for all those juices, we don't wanna use corn starch for that cause we end up with a gloppy mess. We're going to use fruit pectin. - Clever. I like the combo - So just enough that give it a little bit of body, but not so much that we're making a jelly. - That makes sense. - This is low-sugar pectin Going to add an equal amount, two tablespoons of granulated sugar, quarter teaspoon of cinnamon, and a little bit of nutmeg. Just a pinch. Freshly ground is great. - All right. So just whisking break up all that sugar. And now I'm going to add the I'm gonna whisk this together. All right. So I'm gonna turn And we're gonna cook this until it's just slightly thickened, it starts to look a little less cloudy. And that's gonna take anywhere between three to five minutes. - Okey-doke. That smells incredible. - Peaches, cinnamon, sugar. That's it. All right. So this looks great. It's slightly thickened. It's turned a little bit more translucent. I've killed the heat underneath to add our peach mixture There we go. That's for you. - Mmhmm. - We can't forget our Our peach paste. - I love that trick. - And I'm gonna toss this carefully. That peach syrup is super hot, but we're not cooking this We wanna retain the big chunks of peaches, the best that we can cause we know it's gonna That is looking pretty darn good. Now I've got your beautifully So let me go ahead and Ooh, pack it in. - All that goodness. - No peach left behind. Let me just zhuzh it. Now we do wanna get it a Just a tad. It's gonna make it easier So we're gonna make an Real live lattice. - It's just not that hard. - It really isn't. Especially once you get into the rhythm. So I'm gonna take four strips - Boy, that dough is handling beautifully. - Isn't it? - It's really, really chilled. All right. So we're gonna - All right. - So for a lattice you and three, and kind of tuck this towards Now we're gonna do the I'm gonna go ahead and do it like this. Put another lattice strip And just make sure the And then one and three go back. - Mmm, beautiful. - How's that? - So now I'm gonna work my way around. Just cut any excess dough. I want about a half inch overhang. Use a pair of scissors. You I like to pinch the dough Let's make this pie pretty. I've got a little bit of flour here. So the dough can start We want it to stick together, So I'm just really kind to the bottom crust. Pinching it, making it - Mmhmm. - Gonna create that lovely edge. I'm just gonna fold both the top lattice and the bottom crust that's overhanging, right underneath itself. - Sealing the edges. - Sealing the edges. - And I love a really nice, substantial crust that's rolled under. I don't like it when I just kind of gingerly making a little bit larger - Nice. - I like it. - Yeah, it's gorgeous. - Don't worry about any Much better for your finger to release and not take the dough with it. The final zhuzh. We want to give this a That's gonna make it A little crunchy. Now to get the sugar to stick just a light mist of water and - Mm mm mmm. - Isn't she pretty? - I think she's ready for the oven. - I think you're correct. So I've got a preheated The oven is set pretty We're gonna start it in After that I'm gonna reduce rotate the pie and let it - Okay. And you really want you do if you use a metal pie plate. If you use glass, it could shatter. - Right. Let's get into the oven. If you wouldn't mind - You bet. I smell it. Ooh, beautiful. - Come here with me. Now obviously we don't We're gonna let it cool before we cut into it and eat. - That makes sense. Cause it's lava hot and - That's right. Three hours later, this is what we get. - I think it's gonna be worth the wait, but there's only one way to know for sure. - We should eat it. Just have to have a moment. See these little drips of peach juice. That's kinda like peach candy. - Yeah. I'm gonna give you a beautiful slice here. Take my time. Cut through the bottom. - The fact that you're means that that bottom crust is not soggy. - That's right. - Which makes me very happy. - Notice that I don't do small slices. - I'm very thankful for that. - Put a little sweetened whipped cream would be perfect here. - I've tried so hard to hold back. I really just need to taste this now. - Mm. - The peaches are perfection. It tastes like a fresh peach that's just been kissed by - There's no doubt that - Yeah. - Little bit of cinnamon in - Just a little bit. I like it. It's just a background note that adds a little bit of complexity, but really it's all about the peaches. - The best part of this, - The best part of this (Julia laughs) - I retract my statement. - Bridget, it was fun making pie with you and I'm enjoying eating it even more. - Okay. - You bet. - If you wanna make this use a combination of when making the dough. Drain the peaches and use both corn starch and pectin as thickeners, From America's Test Kitchen, Bridget, you've out done yourself. - Well we're almost outta Road trip. - Okay, Thelma. - Thanks for watching What'd you think? - Well, leave a comment and let us know which recipes Or you can just say hello. - You can find links to in the video description. - And don't forget to - See you later. - I'll see you later. +