(eerie music) (slide clicks) (eerie music) (slide clicks) (eerie music) (thunder claps and rain trickles) (tape clicks) (video buzzes) (calm eerie music) - [Nexpo] There's that is so incredibly unsettling. The idea of a piece of recorded history being effectively lost to time, cementing even the most and even video games into It seems that each and every are being remembered, to all the others who, also, A year ago, I brought you through five of the darkest pieces of however it was but a drop in the ocean of what's actually out there. There are hundreds, thousands of forgotten media all with their own stories, and their own intricate as some of the darkest in existence. Tonight, you and I are diving back in. This is &quot;The Darkest Lo..&quot;. (video beeps) (reel buzzes) (tornado warning beeps) (alarm blares) (somber music) It's the 31st of May, 2013, and the town of El Reno, It's a Friday like any other (alarm beeps) - [Announcer] National has issued a tornado warning for Southwestern Oklahoma Southeastern Canadian until 07:00 p.m. central daylight time. At 06:23 p.m. central daylight time, National Weather Service... (eerie music) - [Nexpo] As the early evening approaches, alerts ring in about a potential that may touch down in the area. It's something meteorologists It's unprecedented. It's different. At 06:03 p.m., an EF-3 around eight miles Southeast Rapidly, it swells in size becoming more violent by the minute. It mostly remains over open fields, a good thing for the However, for those with a passion for chasing supercells like this, the outcome was far more disastrous. (sad eerie music) In the mid 2000s, a team of storm chasers gone by the alias TWISTEX was formed under the Discovery Channel headed by a man named Tim Samaras. It involved a group of 10 scientists with the goal of chasing and documenting the dynamics of various superstorms, utilizing numerous vehicles If you're a fan of the then you've likely seen them in action as they were heavily involved around the turn of the decade. On the night of the El along with two other members, a videographer named Paul Samaras and a meteorologist named in one of the cruise Chevrolet Cobalt's with the goal of deploying a weather drone in hopes of capturing Ironically, being considered in the industry, Samaras And so he and his crew decided to pursue the El Reno tornado, it would soon become. - [Tim] I'm gonna keep going. (radio mumbles) (wind claps) Multiple vortex. (wind claps) (rain trickles) (eerie music) - [Nexpo] As the minutes pass, the vortex rapidly changes direction. It ramps up speed and it grows At its widest, it attains cementing it as the single largest tornado by surface area ever recorded. Regardless, the TWISTEX team approaches it with their plan of before getting out of They begin their drive towards the highway in hopes of heading south However, to their surprise, the tornado rapidly and unexpectedly turns straight towards them. In the following minutes, they do everything they can to turn around to get away from this beast of nature. However, before they know leaving the three men helpless inside. (car rattles) As the car's picked up, Carl and Paul are ejected from the vehicle while Tim remains trapped and inside and with nowhere to turn all three of them - RFD has wrapped 360 degrees around. Amazing sight. Tim Samaras ran towards. - It's this totally because it should never - [Nexpo] Two days later the bodies of Paul and Carl are found and not far from them, their vehicle with Tim still inside. After a search, authorities spread throughout a nearby creek bed, one of which being a Remarkably, it was still and recorded onto it of everyone in that vehicle. To this day, only a very have been given access to this video, one of which being the crew's close friend named Gabe Garfield. Since the incident, he's that while viewing it, he could hear Carl describe how quote, &quot;Eerily calm&quot; the air became around them in the moments prior to their death. Immediately after Tim Samaras retorts, &quot;Actually I think we're in a bad spot&quot; before his final words, echo over and over through their radio. As far as it's known, this footage has never nor are there any plans to. Interestingly though, on YouTube, we're able to find a secondhand view of the TWISTEX team in the Though as they continue down their path, they're unknowingly heading right into this three mile monster. - [Speaker 1] 81 Coming up on the right. (car rattles) Take a right. Yeah, right on 81. (eerie music) I've never had anybody - [Speaker 2] Especially (people laugh) - [Speaker 1] what did you say? Tell him if he wants to - [Speaker 2] Do you wanna take the lead? (eerie music) (sad music) - To this day, this snippet is some of the of their team and of just how dangerous the can really be. The demise of the TWISTEX team was caused by a phenomenon What began as just another had devolved into one of the one could ever find themselves in. And whether or not this footage it's irrefutably tragic were broken apart that night of nature. (sad music) (calm techno music) Hello everyone, quick thing. Today's video's actually sponsored by the lovely people over at Incogni. - Hundreds of thousands of retirees have had their personal information leaked after a massive data breach. - [Announcer] American say they've notified who applied to become a pilot after a data breach to - House leaders say the impact impacting members of could be more extensive - One of the most important facets of the online experience today is privacy, which ironically seems to as companies shave of information from us. That's why I'd like to thank In the modern day, your one of the most valuable and data brokers are circling With full names, IPs, emails, and even home addresses being put a fragment removing it from every service That's why Incogni's such because it takes the busy work out of it and gives me peace of mind working behind the scenes to help remove my personal information off the internet. One of my favorite aspects about In less than five minutes, I'm up and running as and request take downs of my information while I go about my daily life It's the peace of mind it offers that makes this service worth it. And to be honest, I think in their corner fighting Go to incogni.com/nexpo and use code NEXPO for an exclusive offer of 60% off. That's incogni.com/nexpo or click the link below off the market. Thank you again to Incogni. Now back to the show. (lively music) (video rustles) (person mumbles) On the evening of March 9th, 2001, in the small village a man lies deceased in a bathtub. He's been here for three hours and is lying in a pool of his own blood. His reproductive organs are gone, his throat is wide open and needless to say, this (sad music) Appealing to some of the out there were a myriad of websites centering on very specific and the one that rose during the early 2000s than Cannibal Cafe. It appealed to, well cannibals, those who legitimately desired to consume other human beings and what festered here was a cesspool of pedophilia and vorarephilia that went unchecked for years. Of course, the website staunchly claims that everything posted but is it really? In early 2001, a man going makes numerous posts to the Cannibal Cafe. He's searching for what he and has a peculiar request. &quot;I'm searching for a young boy If you have a normal body, I'll butcher you and eat your flesh.&quot; It was a disturbingly and this post sat here that is the internet for day. (computer fan rumbles) (notification dings) As Franky's post garnered willing volunteers trickled in. When it really came down to it though, all of them ended up backing out, but there was one that didn't. A computer engineer named Bernd that he has a very specific fetish and isn't for consuming others, but for the exact opposite. He wants to be consumed and he wants Franky to be Over the next few days, the two exchange contact and it's here where Brandes is nothing but an alias. This man's real name is Armin Meiwes and he's ready to meet (car rumbles) It's the night of March 9th and Brandes is on his way to Armin's home. It's unclear what exactly is on his mind and if he even knows what's coming. However, after arriving at his residence, Brandes opens with an interesting request. (eerie music) (door clicks) (door creeks) (audio mumbles) (eerie music) He wants to have his bit off and eaten. And so complying, Meiwes however, it is unsuccessful Resultingly, he cuts it off with various marinades and seasonings. However, after all of his to the point where it's entirely inedible. (frying pan sizzles) Growing weak and losing blood, Meiwes escorts him to his bathroom and over the next few minutes, feeds him a cocktail of slits his throat and as the life of Bernd Brandes Three hours Brandes sits here as Meiwes reads a &quot;Star and bafflingly during this entire fiasco, not a single thing was done (birds chirp) (chainsaw whirs) Over the next few days, Armin Meiwes dismembers Bernd Brandes storing his remains in his deep freezer with nothing more than some Meanwhile, every single thing is being filmed by a the entire time. All of it is documented onto one single VHS tape. Over the next 10 months, Armin consumes over 44 pounds taking out and cooking his body parts whenever he desired them. With this, he takes to the Cannibal Cafe to boast in explicit However, it's here where on the receiving end of trouble. (intense music) By December of 2002, another member of the Cannibal Cafe reports numerous explicitly to authorities prompting There, police discover numerous body parts and a single four hour videotape depicting the murder and Because of their discovery, Armin Meiwes was immediately apprehended. However his charges were had no specific laws on prosecuting. Bernd Brandes throughout this which only brought considerable confusion and media attention to this case. Nevertheless, Armin Meiwes ended up with a conviction of murder and claimed that he'd done it Today, he remains incarcerated and will for the rest of (sad music) The tape that Armin filmed during his night with Bernd Brandes has never seen the light of during his trial. Considered to be too gruesome the world is left to filling in the blanks given during his testimony. To be honest, I don't about this entire dilemma as Bernd Brandes wanted all of this. He wasn't murdered against his will, but he was still murdered. Nevertheless, Armin a man who created a situation that never should have happened and because of his actions one of the darkest lost needlessly was born. (sad music) (car rumbles) (door handle creeks) (door slams) (lively music) (TV mumbles) It's late at night and 18 and her boyfriend Michael Carroll are spending time in a motel room in which they're living. On this day, nothing is awry and to some, could even be considered painstakingly ordinary. At 10:00 p.m., Michael vaguely do something and leaves after assuring her that he'd return in the morning. And so Kathleen goes to bed (birds chirp) It's morning and Michael Regardless, Kathleen and goes about her life and work as usual. Three days later while at work (phone rings) (person mumbles) It's a man and he knows He claims that he was and wouldn't be coming home. Shocked, Kathleen informs her and given the circumstances, she's given permission to do so. A few moments later, she's seen running out where a bearded man approaches her. The two reportedly engaged in conversation before she ends up jumping in his car. Soon after, the man and it speeds off never to be seen again. (eerie music) This is the last time that in public alive. For little Audrey Fair Save for a rainy day She saves but every time it rains She spends what she puts away (TV static rumbles) - [Leonard] If you go along with us, cooperate with us, we'll be as nice as we can to you within the limits of keeping you prisoner. If you don't go along with us, we're going to take you into the bed, tie you down. (lively music) - [Nexpo] On October 29th, 1945, a man named Leonard Lake was born in San Francisco, California. Being regarded a bright kid, his early years were When he turned six years old, however, his parents had separated to would move in with their grandmother. Bizarrely, Lake began to On numerous occasions, he was caught photographing He'd collect mice and and he'd extort his siblings all of which was condoned with not a single shred of Needless to say, Lake something that only catalyzed However because they were left unchecked and often encouraged, Leonard Lake's life would only as time began to overtake him. (eerie music) By the turn of the '80s Leonard Lake became heavily a movement focused on preparing Notably, Lake had an undying and on numerous occasions, at his residences to varying success. In 1981, he put out an advertisement for a survivalist partner in hopes of meeting someone honestly, God knows why. The reason this is important this one advertisement, one of the most vile people in existence, exacerbating Lake's and leading to his status as and disturbing monsters ever to exist. The man's name was Charles and a convict who was Almost immediately, the pair hit it off collaborating in numerous that eventually led to their arrest and a brief stint in prison. After their release, the two settled down in a wooded town named Wilseyville and it was here where of various residents to right next to his cabin. Inside, he'd begin However, alongside them was something that didn't exactly belong. It was equipment to record video. (eerie music) (TV static rumbles) - Good evening. It's a Sunday on October 22nd, 23rd, something like that, very close to my 38th birthday. And I'm starting this tape without script or without any real organization of what I wanna say. This tape, which you're hearing now, is gonna be the lead-in of the various phases of which hopefully will be of underground buildings. The main emphasis of the building, the whole justification for will be a hidden portion if we can call it that, that will house a cell, a jail cell if you will. And purpose of that cell ends of the building will be the imprisonment of a young lady who probably at this What I want is an I want to be able to use a woman whenever and however I want and when I'm tired or satiated I simply want to put her away, get her out of my sight, out of my life. The advantages of such a situation are, of course, obvious and even beyond sexual. Such a woman totally enslaved would be useful for the mundane but I'm not particularly clean house, washing dishes, et cetera. A slave, there's no way around it. Primarily a sexual slave, but nonetheless, a physical slave as well. - [Announcer] For Monday, February 15th. (lively music) - Hi, I'm Kyle Kraska. It's being called the creepiest A remote cabin where cops say some of the most gruesome serial killings in California history took place. Well now, Ed Miller's and very disturbing look (siren wales) - [Ed] First, they were kidnapped, then robbed, raped, and killed, 12 innocent victims, three women, seven men, two babies were all killed... - [Nexpo] The real reason for his bunker wasn't solely for survivalism, that was merely a piece of it. You see, Lake and Ng had with capturing. Lake claimed that he after the impending nuclear holocaust and frequently went on record to demean the existence of women entirely. And so for years, Lake and Ng would capture, torture, inside the bunker all the while documenting it on his myriad of VHS cameras installed inside each room. The woman we saw at the wasn't just someone random because it was Kathleen Allen, the woman who left her job because of the news of The woman who entered and was never seen again. The woman who fell right into While the pairs main target were women, they wouldn't hold back on Often, the pair would coerce men into coming out to their before they'd rob them, strangle them, and steal their identities. Thereafter, they'd into coming to their property much like they did with Kathleen, to which they'd lock and leave them with an ultimatum. They can either serve Lake obeying their every or they could be killed. No matter which option they chose though, the outcome was all the same, their lives would be with not a single soul around to help. (eerie music) (wind howls) (sad music) In June of 1985, police were called to a hardware store after Charles Ng was caught After catching wind of the situation, Lake rush there himself However, when police asked for an ID, he handed over one that It was the license for Robin Stapley, a man who turned up missing Following this, both Ng However, just four days Leonard Lake would swallow cyanide pills effectively ending his own life. Upon searching Lake's property, authorities discovered multiple vehicles belonging to their numerous victims along with the makeshift burial Inside of it, they unearthed 40 pounds of crushed human bone fragments coming from what they of at least 11 bodies. Inside the bunker, they find a treasure map containing various IDs and a myriad of VHS tapes depicting the torture and To say that their discovery was grim is a criminal understatement as the breadth of their crimes simply cannot be summarized in writing. The scene, surreal and the content on those VHS tapes, indescribably worse. Today, Charles Ng is still alive serving his life sentence in Given his court verdict being 12 counts of first degree murder, it's undeniable that see the light of day. The crimes that he and are some of the worst in history and the fact that they videotaped it adds that extra layer of repulsion. To this day, the tapes filmed are sealed away with no However, considering the it's safe to say that some indefinitely. (intense music) (door bangs) (eerie music) (static rustles) - [Speaker 3] Around 1995, I was about 15. I used to stay up late in my room listening to the radio on a boombox with an integrated tape recorder. One night, I came across this. I don't think this was the but I caught a lot of it. Right at the end, an announcer says that the station I was tuned There were a bunch of but I've never run into (calm music) (**) (static rustles) (eerie twinkling music) - [Nexpo] The Creepypasta, in internet history. The induction for many Suicide Mouse, Ben Drowned, are among some of the most in existence. However, to this day, one refuses to die. It's called Jeff the Killer, and by this point, he The story today hasn't and to be honest, it kind of sounds like a &quot;Joker&quot; fan fiction but that's okay because for our time. (eerie music) Now Jeff the Killer's certainly a tale that's passed its time yet it stands as somewhat of a cornerstone of online history. Contrary to all the effort it's safe to say that the uncanniness of the image accompanying for its popularity online. All across the early 2010s, the image was shared like wildfire, though what most were unaware of was that it had coincidentally of both controversy and enduring mystery and it was all based (TV static rustles) (footsteps thumping) (TV static rustles) (button clicks) (intense music) The story as we know it was written by an author named GameFuel2000 in which of publication is November 21st of 2011. Curiously though an online user had come forth shortly claiming that in reality, It's a bold claim, yet this should be On October 3rd, 2008, a video was shared to a YouTube an alias that Sesseur claims ownership of. The video is more or less a slide show and drops bits of Jeff the killer lore over pictures of various Interestingly, this upload on Newgrounds where the on August 10th of that same year. &quot;The story of Ol' Jeffy, he enjoys horror such as ghost Have you ever met him in person? This man is what other He's like a Bloody Mary game except he must perform it in the closet, turn off all the lights while repeating this saying three times while turning your head back and forth. 'He's in here with me.' After the saying, close your eyes and call out the name Jeff. He'll appear by putting and proceed to yell and To make him stop is to stand and not doing so will result Okay, so there we have it. Sesseur is the creator of Jeff the Killer, as they bear proof of of utilizing both his name and image. With this in mind, surely they should have that (intense music) In December of 2015, fellow creator ScareTheater He asked them a plethora what inspired you? Why do you call him Jeff and did you ever expect him All granting thought-provoking insight into the creator of this online behemoth. Interestingly though in one of them, ScareTheater presses of the Jeff image to which &quot;The picture was made and some big plastic eyes that simulated blinking. There was also a black ring covering the exposed red eyelid. After it was made, two or three and the rest is history.&quot; Well, just like that, mystery solved. Sesseur crafted something and did it with none and some fake eyes. So good on them. (eerie music) Shortly after Sesseur's interview, a video was found on a YouTube It was uploaded on the 2nd of &quot;NNN Special Broadcast&quot;. Purportedly, it's based surrounding a scrolling list of names at around three in the morning when no one should be watching. The list is said to be and bizarre sounds before at the very end, it states that these names It's definitely some Local 58 but that notion isn't the You see at the very end of this video, DarkYKnighT sneaks in a small surprise turning everything we thought on its head. (eerie music) (beep) (eerie music) It was here when it was realized He lied when everyone was Not only that, Jeff the Killer's image likely didn't even originate as evidence from an unsuspecting website began a surface in the coming months. (intense music) Where did this image come from and what did the original If Jeff the killer were unknown to the entire world waiting to be found, there was bound to be By 2018, investigators made their way to a now-defunct Japanese It's your run of the mill and online discussion. However, way back in 2005, hidden away inside an otherwise innocuous and highly obscure post, again was him. This photo was uploaded by user named Omega Bolt. However, to this day, contact with them has been They have seemingly fallen effectively becoming just as obscure as Jeff's origin itself. Aside from that though, this discovery was far from a dead end as once this photo was run it was found that its Interesting considering they found him again. For the very first time, an alternate less modified was uncovered named White powder (2). It was uploaded by a and in their version were that were otherwise shrouded by Photoshop. The mouth is no longer distorted, the facial accents gone and the previously foreboding eyes are replaced by an alternative. Contrary to Omega Bolt though, Mr. Mulholland was actually tracked down and contacted via Twitter. There, they claimed before it was edited and believed that it to their memory, came from an online video of Purportedly her face was extremely pale and lightly edited screen caps of her were passed around Japanese message forms as surprise images in the mid 2000s. They further state that they believes that it no longer and speculates that it named &quot;Honto ni Atta! Noroi no Video&quot;. Since this revelation, every episode made from 1999 to 2005 have been thoroughly searched, yet no match has never been found. (eerie music) (sighs) But there is one more to this day regarded as the oldest (eerie music) On the homepage of a website resting innocuously among was version one captured The only clues that accompanied &quot;Fear of a Summer Night&quot; and once clicked a descriptor &quot;A celebrity before plastic surgery.&quot; Aside from this, no To be honest, we could do this all day because since the hunt began, there have been hundreds of sightings of Jeff the Killer online, all predating Sesseur's original story. Over the years, there of original image contenders that have gained considerable traction, most notably with the wide who doesn't even exist. It's safe to say that this surge has had its fair share of controversy, yet that hasn't slowed of those trying to investigate this. This is one of the longest of all time and if I'm being honest, it may never find a resolution. Other versions of Jeff are discovered yet they bear more edits than version one. Rumors circulate about it being yet no proof has ever surfaced and almost daily, those are creating their own and are telling it as the real thing. Sometimes the existence brings life enduring fascination. There's something hauntingly that seem unsolvable, In a perfect world, the existence of the internet of all things mysterious every action taking place on this earth theoretically should have some sort of readily accessible answer. I'm glad that's not the case though as Jeff the Killer is just that small hint in it's based around a question so simple. It's quite literally the product of someone who knows who took this photo, yet they to this day Maybe it's a language barrier. Perhaps they've passed away, maybe they live under a rock that the simple picture they is now subject to one of in recent history. Regardless of where this person is, Jeff the Killer in some capacity and whether his identity he will forever remain embedded always regarded in enigmatic paradox, effectively immortalized as yet completely unknown ever to exist. (eerie music) (lively music) NBC that's always there After these messages We'll be right back - [Narrator] You know Microsoft, why not use your connections? The people who made your PC now do the same for your Call now... - [Nexpo] All right, we did this last time and we're gonna do it again here. Before we begin this next segment, I'd like to state that this next entry may be nothing at all. I could be reading way too much into it, but the following topic is haunted me for years, even though it's relatively With that being said, this section does involve So if that type of thing bothers you, viewer discretion is strongly advised. Let us begin. (static rustles) The internet. (static rustles) (calm music) A frontier that found at the turn of the millennium, a seemingly endless repository of history, culture and conversation. Throughout the years, has given the world an a vehicle for humor, and so a little known phenomenon - This is not the best I just found this out. Take the bottom part, put it on top. You don't get messy, it's so much better. (maniacally laughs) - [Nexpo] Not gonna dive into their cultural significance as I'm pretty sure you're The reason I bring them is because there's one out ever since I first two and a half years ago. Now before we continue, I want you to know that on covering this topic for years now. I've scripted this out, then scrapped it, then throw it in an iceberg I don't quite know where or if you catch my drift, but it is creepy. (eerie music) October 26th of 2020. &quot;I believe this popular meme Hopefully you guys can prove me wrong. Hello there, please let me know if this isn't the right I've seen this meme being posted around for quite a long time, usually with drinking related titles as if the person lying on the grass is just blacked out drunk. Now I'll never forget a about eight years ago that messing around with a body of a woman, inserting a kitchen knife on her face and other terribly atrocious things all while talking and laughing. Whenever I see this meme, I think of this video and after taking a good I believe it can actually The video takes place in the concrete well and However, it could very well The questions I'm left with are, does anybody know about Is there anyone here who's I've talked about, and if so, could this be from it? I definitely don't remember well enough to be sure whether it's the same or not. I know I could just check it out myself, but I'm committed to never searching for this kind of content again. I hope some of you guys Thank you.&quot; (eerie music) Shout out to the days when you but you were actually dying in a field from alcohol poisoning. This is the image. (eerie music) A year ago I discussed a similar mystery in a segment about Corey Feldman and within the very same day, my video went public. You guys were able to dig up its source. Because of this, I've decided because this one photo has from the first moment I saw it. As we can see, we have with white hair lying face they're draped in a dark blue jeans and boots. Their body lies in a and this entire image is implying that it came from To their left appears to be a concrete pad and on top of it seems to be Aside from this, there are no in this photo. No age range, no location, not even confirmation that Reverse searching this meme besides the fact that the came from a Blogspot post in 2016. It also seemed to be as compression artifacts are present even on this image from Reverse searching the photo itself gives us more of the same. However, upon pivoting to Yandex, I did discover an interesting trend. (eerie music) (photos click) Curiously, there's a myriad of images of people lying in a field appearing limp, much like the photo we're investigating. Though they're all labeled with captions that appear mostly innocent, &quot;Russian youth having fun&quot;, &quot;This guy's tired of the sun&quot;, &quot;Hero risks his life to The where things really get funky is when we look at this one in which we can see a body lying in a very similar manner as ours. (wind claps) (child speaking in foreign language) (child chuckles) (static rustles) There's no further context to this video aside from its title, which translates to Dying Swan and there are no other relevant Now, the reason I bring this this image looks just as haunting as ours. However, it appears to be from an old obscure prank. I'm not saying that just as lighthearted, however, So where is this image from How did this end up in a and who created it? These are the questions for nearly three years now and this is where I need Who is the woman in the field? (eerie music) Tonight, you and I dove into five more of the darkest pieces of As we can say, there's no shortage of obscure disturbing content like this and I hope you all enjoyed this trip down the dark side of the internet as much as I enjoyed making it. If you have any suggestions for this series, feel free to submit them at Thank you guys so much for watching. I'll see you in the next one. I love you all and good night. (eerie music) - [Announcer] December 10, 2002, police in Rosenberg, raided this isolated farmhouse. In the kitchen, they found a concealing what Meiwes claimed (sad music) - The victims were brought here about 100 miles east of San Francisco, but more than a million miles to a cabin so remote, no no one could possibly hear. (sad music) - [Announcer] Authorities say are the men responsible for and murder of 12 victims in 1984 and '85, investigators (sad music) (wind howls)