- There's an engineering challenge in building quantum computers, which is how to store information in the memory of the quantum because quantum computer memory to any interference from If any of the environment interacts with the memory in any way, then the information is destroyed. And there are deep problems that you can't copy information which is basically the way that your iPhone, or whatever and prevents errors of the computers that it's basically copying information. You can't do that in quantum mechanics. So it's a tremendous challenge. Engineers have had to develop and ways of trying to store information in quantum computer memory and build the memory such And it turns out that the solutions that are being proposed and explored look like the solutions in building space and time that lives on the boundary. It's really strange. The remarkable thing for me is an intimate relationship between If we go back right to on black holes in the the colleague of Stephen one of the first researchers to really begin working on black holes alongside greats like John Wheeler. Bekenstein noticed in a simple calculation that you can answer the question, &quot;How much information That's a strange thing to say because the model of a pure spacetime. Now, how does something You need some structure. You need atoms or something that can store bits of information. Well, turns out that you can calculate that a black hole stores in bits. The information content is of the event horizon What's a Planck unit? It's a fundamental that you can calculate by putting together things like the strength of gravity, Planck's constant, the speed of light. It's the smallest distance in physics as we understand it. The questions it raises: How is information stored? Why is the information equal to the surface area rather than the volume? If I asked you, how much in your room, the room that you're sitting in now, just say it's a library, then you would say, &quot;Well, it's to do with how many books I can fit in the room.&quot; But black holes seem to be telling us that there's something about the surface surrounding a region. This is the first glimpse, I think, of an idea called What is that? So if you think about what a hologram is, at the very simplest level, But that piece of film to make a three-dimensional image. It's the idea that there of our reality. There's one description, which is that we live in this space, the three dimensions of space, and time is a thing that ticks, and Einstein told us that but still you have this picture the thing in which we exist. There's an equivalent description for a very specific model called by a physicist called Maldacena, which is a dual theory that lives purely on the and the space itself in the So it's strongly suggestive that there's a deeper theory of space and time, that does And that's one of the wonderful surprises that's really emerged from and the attempt to answer the I should say that the was purely mathematical. It wasn't framed in the although the questions ultimately seem to be intimately related. So the study of black holes that these ideas of holography, which came from a different from trying to understand other things, those descriptions may be And it seems that we're at least in very simplified models- and that the information is stored on the boundary redundantly, which means that you can lose a bit of it and still fully specify the And it does seem that that's the way that we will in the future encode information in the to protect them from errors. So I'm giving you an interpretation which, and there will be other people who have different interpretations, but it does seem that whatever that underlies our reality, then there's some redundancy in the way the information is And it does seem that that we will in the future encode information in the to protect them from errors, And I just emphasize, you're what I've just said because I don't understand because nobody understands We're catching glimpses of this theory, and that's where the the it's why it's tremendously exciting. - Want to dive deeper? Become a &quot;Big Think&quot; member, and join our members-only community, watch videos early, and