You always look different because you brown person, the first Asian, the first lead a global luxury brand. You're always underestimated. expect. most exclusive luxury brands in the Chanel, the French fashion house known made the avant garde move to appoint her Previously a human resources veteran. before switching from the world of fast beauty. founder, Gabrielle or Okechukwu, to its For the manager, it's a chance to make And I want to change the world but look On this episode of Leaders with LaCour, professional and personal journey, how unique approach at the top of luxury. us here on Bloomberg. What's it like being a Chanel chief It is the best job in the world. It's energetic. The sector is doing well. So what kind of difference do you want Is it on the business? Is it what it stands for? You know, I want to lead Chanel into the and lead Chanel into the future by protecting our differentiation, by evolving as a scaled, iconic business You know, it's always important to The context we have externally is very, macroeconomic challenges, inflation and ecosystems. people is so difficult in today's day So we see all of that externally. hear about it. and internally. last ten years. We more than double the number of people We've more than doubled our distribution We've more than doubled the number of So that's a lot of growth. team, is to ensure that we make This changes, that we make sense of shaping what's next, as far as I can Chanel was this, you know, beautiful, Everybody wanted the products, but it And then there's been an opening in the events, podcasts. I guess is there you know, can a can of secretive in 2024? the world of luxury or sophistication or when it came to Chanel two and a half People are truly humble. and it comes from a sense of we don't high integrity. about them. with that, and I think the part of the and I explained some of the internal being in so many markets, having so many to be clearer and more open about who we It's 100 year old company. To have been a beacon of inspiration all inspiration for the next hundred years. differently so that clients and they maybe did ten, 15 years ago? client and there's no one reason to Truly, we see all kinds of clients, people who are dedicated buyers of In fact, first time buyers are 30% of of gen-z and alpha. going to be gen-z. it's the vibrancy. those kinds has a different set of So for Gen Z and Alpha, they buy because They want to buy because they see it's a everybody buys for a different reason. our brand, our reputation, our company, to all sorts of clients. know to the younger generation? Our story of savoir faire, Our story of A story of how how many hours goes into Like 100 hours. story across our craftsmanship, as with luxury, the quality of it, the all joy. how people look at luxury, the quality, the story of people Chanel and the story spirit of constantly innovating in Because when she designed clothes, it It was about anticipating the needs of Woman. cross-body bags so that women could ride So it was about supporting women to be become. self-discovery with women. change. women to be and become the best versions And that story still engages, no matter And the core of our story really doesn't more channels than you and I can count There's all sorts of things Instagram, through the media channels, my genes or change. much who we are as Chanel generation. when you when you talk about her, it's your story. up in, in a town in India where not many Yeah. What was that journey like? It was I grew up in a small town in the the world of luxury refinement. where I grew up. Most of my memories of me running bike and being around women being In fact, I remember my mother constantly You're so ambitious, and do you really life? models, to opportunities. convincing everybody in my family that great. telecommunications and it quite enjoyed learning a lot more about the world of then did. the country as part of Hindustan I worked, I had an all around worked in the shop floor, worked in morning, going to the trade, selling So it was a fun experience. It meant being constantly It meant that you always looked woman and the first brown person, the person of colour to lead a global luxury You're always the first. People don't know exactly what to agenda might be. responsibility of making it easier for So I feel a tremendous privilege, make it easier, which means questioning many people as I can, trying to make it championing a more equal one. Is there ever a challenge that you You know, every single thing I've done, can't be done. and I said, I want to go in the And they said, No, we don't put women in I said, How will I be a successful factory if I never went into a people worked? my determination. to show this is possible, a sense of I'm It also gives me courage because I feel I'm doing it for everyone else who comes So it gives me courage to it fuels my But as I don't shy away from challenges advice saying, put your hand up for the things that are challenging. things that are difficult, that are you the greatest credibility, respect, Coming up, Chanel's Lena Nair on the changing role of what it means to be a Chanel is behind some of the most modern fashion. privately held by the billionaire family over the past century. firm's chief executive, Lee Minute. You know, the high end luxury doesn't That actually there's a lot of players world. high that that will do well. price increases that we've seen it at You know, up prices are related to our We use exquisite raw materials and our rigorous, laborious hand made. inflation that we see sort of really We've also made a commitment to price means a client should not experience No price differentials, no matter where The market is also something that we're years. Chanel? e-commerce. buy from our beautiful stores because we immersive experience, immersive physical relationship that the fashion advisor, assistant, which is so magical and so And how do you see the China market Because it's not it's not that volatile You kind of have like a base that stays China is a very central market for the adoption of luxury, because of the sophistication. market for us. was really happy to see the energy and So we continue to run our business for China for the long term. market for luxury. bit of ebbs and flows. we continue to invest. watches and fine jewelry store on Fifth It is absolutely breathtaking. you'd expect initially boutique, great things that uplift you. and they're important to us. executive in 2024 than it was for the change. either. It is definitely challenging. about tapping into collective the days of the superhero leader are World is so complex. you imagine one individual, no matter they are, can have answers to all the No chance. intelligence. listen to every voice. just listening to the dominant voices in listening to all voices around the So is that what you also lead by? I mean, I'm always you always say, you always easy. in Unilever when I was going to a place safe for women, I would go back and made safer for women who came after me. challenging what was happening so I after me. 60% of my management team are women. everything to support the development and create a more equal world. Chanel? It's a rare time in our history where we female creative director of fashion. support way. Abloh is one of the largest selling that way. women, and we hope to empower and becoming. The perfume. Talk to me a little bit. people don't understand about Chanel. actually for so long it was all kept, But you also have other brands like how companies working together? It's you know, we are the world leader There is all of fashion which is well We. skincare. leadership team, which I we started inspiration for the next 100 years, or constantly thinking ahead. of it, which is, you know, having a And there was sustainability, the whole idea of women's empowerment So we are one of the largest women empowerment and girls. Not many people know that 125 million came in. million. organizations in the world. countries on beautiful programs that destiny. trying to change luxury and how her her mindset as a chief executive. Lena Nair is used to breaking convention including her transition from Unilever chief executive of one of the most She tells me how Chanel is positioning means for her legacy. How difficult is it for a big luxury I mean, you have very ambitious goals. I would like other luxury players to be We are one of the few luxury players zero by 2040. emissions. emissions, we are reducing our footprint to do with digital Chanel dot but a 16% reduction in carbon footprint. heart's trying to do good and how much Because in 510 years they'll be even Yes. believe luxury sustainable because they beautifully and we make them with hand. see us continue to sustainable is only And I mentioned about more Gen Z and They buy because they want to buy less mindset to engage with luxury. important Do you need to be a risk taker? I guess you need to be careful, but do Is there anything coming where you will You know, I think for all of us, moving fast that you're constantly For me, we are a courageous brand courageous woman. courageously, passionately made the She wanted courageously, passionately. You know, so for me, audacity, so I call it audacity. It has a certain cachet that I'm sure What have you learned about yourself as So you were in charge of h.r. It's a massive company. I mean, is it different actually being charge of h.r. mentor told me you're doing a quadruple You mean so it's change on so many It's public to private. anglo-dutch to french heritage. It's easier to see you. It's not just one damage has been all for me. the rarity. Every time. for new. It's different. to me, the principles of business and transferable across sectors. countries, multiple product categories, how to galvanize and inspire teams multiple kinds that are principles that are people. have motivations, dreams, aspirations. I must say being in Chanel has taught me The treadmill of quarterly results, etc. So it's taught me to be more patient. And, you know, I want to change the I love that. Yes, I do. purpose led visionary leader, which about what are you doing, what are you What will be the difference you make? 100 years from now, people look back and that inspires them, that helped them audacious things that have redefined the and supported women everywhere to feel themselves. would feel good about if I had made a bit more about what they could achieve I. career. Oh, no. We love the privilege of being an long term decisions 20 to 3000 years The best piece of advice and worst piece The best piece of advice. One is fall in love with the life job Don't wait for the perfect job. make it the most perfect job in the And the other is, which my husband also Enjoy the journey as much as you enjoy We are always in a hurry to get You are thinking the next promotion. Just enjoy, breathe a bit and enjoy the Worst piece of advice? I think most often when you get a voice forget about it. you know, when I was in many rooms, the The only woman in the room. received advice like, you know, stay blend in. out because you look different from the And I think that's terrible advice. safe to be who you are. and you change by being who you are. joining us today.