It may be toxic, but mercury sure looks magical. So much so that, according to legend, drank it thinking it would give him eternal life. A bit misguided? Sure. But honestly? Understandable. After all, it's a metal that manages even if that room has a window I'm not exaggerating. Mercury doesn't freeze until it But as visions of mercury blobs you may be wondering why mercury is so special. Well, in order to answer that you might associate with space A theory that taught us that and that E = mc2. That's right. Mercury is a liquid because of Special Relativity. [ INTRO] Let's start our exploration of all this which I've filled with water, not mercury...and The periodic table isn't just a It's a top-notch organizational device. Because elements that share usually share some of the same properties. For example, everything in the leftmost meaning the atoms really want to form In contrast, everything in the rightmost You know, the noble gases... And finally, there's everything in the middle. Which mostly comes in shades of...sorta reactive. Mercury, you'll notice, is one of the many, It belongs to a group of metals And it's more specifically a member and the only-exists-when-humans-make-it But wherever you are on the table, by how many electrons you have, and how Now, you might remember being told where the electrons sit in a This setup is sometimes because it vaguely resembles And it's...well... it's wrong. Because there's this fun thing that happens when you shrink down to subatomic sizes. Electrons are revealed to not governed by the traditional laws of physics. They're simultaneously both particles and waves, obeying the fuzzy laws of quantum mechanics. So while electrons do orbit nuclei, But if we acknowledge it's of this model's simplicity and use it Can we all agree on that? Ok, cool. Electrons orbit an atom's nucleus Each shell can hold a different number Shell 1 can hold one type of subshell, We don't need to get into all the nuances get more and more complicated as you go, For example, an s subshell has two So the higher the shell number, the And as you learned in chem class, all these shells and subshells tend But I am a benevolent host, so we are going to skip right to the Voila. I know it looks a bit complicated, is that all of the subshells that have Compare this to all of the other transition least one electron missing from either their You see a similar feature They don't have as many electrons to deal with, but their outermost s and And in chemistry, a set of completely as much as a non-sentient particle It's more correct to say that But since that doesn't come naturally the typical way for an atom When you're in a chemistry class, in terms of a chemical reaction. Like putting a bunch of and "please-gimme-an-electron" But those aren't the only When you've just got a bunch of the like a lump of pure sodium, or a pool of And under the right conditions, you can loosen those bonds and change Since the Group 12 elements all have the metallic bonds that their than those made by the rest of Which means they'll have For example, zinc melts at While that's scorching to you or me, next door, rocking a melting point Cadmium, meanwhile, melts a But mercury, as I stated in will be a liquid as soon as it's It melts before water does! As it turns out, mercury atoms that they mostly hold themselves together with a kind of electrostatic These forces are a lot weaker than your that at any given moment, an atom's In other words, you have regions where there's a tiny amount of extra negative charge. And those regions can attract regions of don't happen to be, making them Now, one reason why mercury is so reliant on these weak Van der Waals connections is it's big enough to put some of And if you thought d subshells looked They can have all sorts of including metallic bonds that are Unfortunately, this still doesn't explain why That's right. It's time for special relativity to step in. This was Albert Einstein's first version of the relationships between space But as the name suggests, it also taught They appear to change as an object And one of those properties is mass. The faster you're moving relative to someone else, the more massive they measure you to be. Now for most speeds you run that increase in mass is inconsequential. It's a rounding error. So for a lot of real-world you can rely on the simplified, that may have existed before Einstein came along. But as the relative speed gets faster and faster, that increase in mass can't be ignored. If you try to use the simplified equations, Your predictions won't match observations. And that's true whether you're a across interstellar space or you're an electron in orbit of an atom. See, the more protons you the faster the electrons will be moving around it. That's because protons are positively charged, while electrons are negatively charged. Opposite charges attract, so with more protons there's a stronger pull toward the nucleus. Now due to quantum shenanigans, like the electrons are still stuck occupying They don't spiral down toward the nucleus. They merely increase their velocity. So if we look at mercury, with its 80 the two electrons in its innermost shell are And half the speed of light is too fast The electrons get a boost in mass. And that boost causes several The mercury atoms get smaller. And remember, we've got a big tugging negatively-charged electrons. So if everything's a bit closer together, the atom is going to hold onto And that means it'll be even more non-reactive than it was before you accounted for relativity. Which mercury, of course, did It's a Group 12 transition metal Just like its siblings zinc and cadmium. But zinc only has 30 protons, and cadmium has 48. You can get away with ignoring when you've only got 48 protons. You can't with 80. Or at least that was the hypothesis If scientists wanted to could explain mercury's they'd need a computer that could handle Or more accurately, the two sets The first set would create a and keep track of all the interactions simplified, non-relativistic Meanwhile, the second set would the more complex relativistic equations. If the two simulations produced wildly different producing a temperature close to the researchers would know But that's easier said than done. It's hard enough getting a computer to let alone a few dozen. But finally, in 2013, a team of a whopping 55 atoms of mercury. When they ignored relativity, the That's fairly low for a metal, but But when they took the effects the melting point dropped to -23 degrees. It isn't quite the -39 we see in In fact, it's close enough to safely conclude that the puzzle behind mercury's Still best if you don't drink it though. This episode of SciShow is brought to you by...you! Or some of you. Our Patreon supporters! Thanks to them, we can keep the lights and post-production teams typing and Really, this support is so very important. And if you want to be part of head over to Patreon.com/SciShow. [ OUTRO]