What do you get when you give A bunch of has-beens calling you [laughter and applause] It's an honor to be at a roast Wow, Ludacris and Snoop Dogg If I was 38, You might know That's What I Call Music CD. Come on, let's hear it [cheers and applause] Thanks for being here and taking at Super Mario. [laughs] Shaq has shattered eight Snoop's son just got accepted one college football. So Snoop Dogg And now speaking of someone he has a son, Justin, you know, and I always regretted until I met your dad, Justin. And now for in the history of comedy, Soul Plane are here. Soul Plane was the worst involving a plane. There is a lot of These men combined have made millions in child [cheers and applause] Kevin does all He climbs into his own chair. [cheers and applause] You know, a lot of people &quot;Shaquille&quot; is an Arabic and &quot;O'Neal&quot; is the Irish word Shaq's dick is so big, he has to Jeff Ross, it's great once a year at these roasts. Chris D'Elia finally answers &quot;What if Dane Cook had half I'm excited Snoop's here. Snoop, you look like [cheers and applause] All these rappers on stage, and Martha Stewart has done [cheers and applause] Now, that's not fair. [cheers and applause] Seems like only yesterday Time flies when Justin, Selena Gomez She is literally in all of entertainment In case you didn't know, Shaq Diesel... and Martha Stewart's baby daddy. And trust me, Martha know boy, Once you go Shaq, Ain't that right, Martha? But I'm not the only baller What's up, Snoop? Snoop made a reggae album. If you're a rap fan, But if you're a reggae fan, I know you don't [bleep] Look at all these scrubs Chris D'Elia, Hannibal, Natasha, I haven't seen a more since the last Lakers game. Look at Jeff--Jeff got a body Justin, as a father of six, You know, last year the fifth most hated person Kim Jong-Un And he uses your music But thanks to that music, Justin is worth and in prison, Justin got a tattoo of Jesus Why you gotta bring Baby is the most hated statistically if you check and there are also That means that someone saw &quot;Death to America&quot; and sawing &quot;Nope, still not worse in a bowling alley.&quot; Thank you, guy half my age. Seriously, man, You have it all. You literally are a guy except for respect, good parents, and a Grammy. I know you're all wondering It's because people's lives for the better. is the most but I don't have You have three kids May I suggest and finishing on some fine, highly absorbent [cheers and applause] Let's get to the reason which is to give Justin Bieber when he inevitably The first thing I made mine out of a pintail I found Bubblicious works best, You see, when I did my stretch, all the hood rats wanted to break off so I walked into the chow hall, picked out the biggest bull From then on, prison was easier [cheers and applause] Shaq, I hope your mom So, Justin, my final piece [cheers and applause] [cheers and applause] Martha Stewart's here to sit Martha, I want to [bleep] I bet your pubic hair Martha went to prison for idiot consumers to buy, Ludacris' new album But enough about Ludacris, Shaquille O'Neal. Shaq's dick is so big, Snoop, you look like The only person that's inhaled is Pete Davidson's dad Thanks, Pete. Justin, I feel like really want blood this time, haven't even gotten But if you can take a joke, then so can the Beliebers because face it, Biebs, you've You are the King Joffrey of pop. [cheers and applause] Anyway, Biebs, you have And as you sat here you were probably thinking know what we're talking about, 'cause you're gonna on a private jet and we'll all be Stewart at the afterparty. And you know what, Biebs, And I know you'll never end up like Kurt Cobain respected. I've been smoking and drinking. [cheers and applause] Justin's life changed when and liked it, which only goes Now Justin, most niggas, we go a little crazy But, nigga, I mean, that monkey than the one that started It's amazing to have Is this a roast or is this Tyler Shaq's a very unique player He's the first player to have his shoe size, IQ, and jersey Shaq is a police officer If you want to escape from Shaq, 'cause that's-- Snoop is here. Snoop Dogg. Snoop is like Snoop, the only way is if you stand behind Suge Chris--I don't know He doesn't smoke weed. He's never done any drugs. His only vice is performing all around the country. diversifying its talent with You just look real-- You have a weird, and I don't like it. but when I talk to you, And now the man of the hour. They say that you roast but I don't like you I'm just here 'cause this is I hate your music, man. I hate your music more than [cheers and applause] Listen, I don't have I'm currently over at stage &quot;Your Mother's a Fat Bitch&quot; As far as I'm concerned, Here's a couple things I know. Bieber accused of assaulting at a laser tag arena. March 4th, 2013, two hours late because he refused Say what? not only do you need with the same reckless abandon, Look, I'm new to comedy, What do you get when you give A bunch of has-beens calling you [laughter and applause] All right, all right. Kevin is so short, he calls I love Kevin Hart's career plan. Do everything Martin And, Martha, I know that's probably something I'm a huge fan Chris gets a ton of girls. 'Cause I'm a big fan That's right. That's right, hey. Luda and I had a lot of hours In fact, he told me he ever made on purpose. Dogg, what's up, man? but he was actually the year I was born. You're one of the ten sitting right next to Martha How cool is this? I'm proud of you, man. Thank you so much