Chau Thi Dac hello everyone Nice to meet you in this video Wishing you a new day full of energy and happiness with your family Today I harvested beans and went to the market to sell to make money to build the Bai farm. This is very spacious and comfortable. This point is convenient. I have already arranged a place to dump materials. It will be deployed tomorrow, it's right near the Ben construction site, it's spacious and ok, okay, whose wood does this belong to? The wood belongs to that house. I wonder what they took it for? That 's good. This is a palm tree. Yes, this tree . I wonder if they sell it. Did you take it away to rust? I'm planning to use this tree to make a pig barn. This tree is very durable. Is this tree good to use? This tree is very good. It can be used to make a pig barn for a long time. It's durable. I'll ask the homeowner over there if he's selling this house. I'm also interested. Come in to buy groceries and drink water here. This house is fully furnished. It's probably not for anything. Yes, just come in and ask. If you can use this tree to build a pig pen, it's forever, right? Palm tree Before you guys used trees This is a lot. Go over there and ask. I'll wait here for you Hey , what are you doing with this ? I sawed it to make a pig cage. This tree is very good. This tree is very good . I also need to make a pig cage. Please leave this wood for me. If I take it to make a pig cage, please let me know. Let it be Yes sir How much money is this 100$ Yes 100$ leave it to me I'll pick it up today I'll pick it up again whenever it's up to you Can you count it for me Yes thank you I'll call a car to dad Always Drink water Yes Yes, I'll come back later for a drink. Honey, I'm planning to get some bamboo. There are bamboos here . There aren't many up there. I'll use big bamboos to make poles. There are all big and small. I need your help. Okay, let me help you get a few trees. I'll take about 8 pieces, each about 3m long. I'll go back and ask someone to cut them and bring them to the road so I can go home. I'll go home for you. Thank you in advance. Any car is fine. Busy, I have work to do . Come on, please stand up Keep the front of the car heavy, otherwise it will lift your head. Wood is here, you come back and give me another sheet. Yes, come back here and continue. Let's go if it's dark. You go first, I'll go behind on the motorbike. The house is locked, I don't know where my wife went. There's one more photo missing . Go back downstairs and bring back some more trees. Yes , the bamboo trees are ok. Are there some young trees near this road? Yes , that's right. So I'll take them back first. Hey, I'll transfer the money to your account later You uprooted my gate like that. I pulled out my gate tree. Is there anyone at my house? I can't see anyone. What are you doing? You said the other day, you're turning this tree back to make a pig pen for me. First trip First he returned to the tree to stay out there. This trip is going back to the ground with a few trees . I told you not to do this. I don't have money to pay you. I'll do it for free. Please help me take it down. Do you like it? When you grow up, you can go and sell your car. Yes . Wow, that's so professional. Please sit here. I'll take the tree down. Please help me take it down. Where can I put it? I'm ready to do it. Where can I put it? Where can I put it? I'll just put it here. Pig is about to have a new home, Song Let's go home and have a drink. Thank you so much for helping me today. It's nothing . Let me pay for your mortgage and car fare. I'll figure out how much it will cost . My total is 80$. I'll count it to see if it's enough. It's not enough, please. I'll have dinner here tonight. Okay , I'll probably ask for your permission. I'm still busy. The wood is basic, but there are still 4 missing sticks for arm bars. I'll go get them tomorrow. Another guy will send someone to do it tomorrow. It's still a matter of money Like let me take care of it, you don't have to worry , remember to go get some more plants tomorrow. I have something to do tomorrow and I can't come up for you. I can't hire someone to do it. I don't have money to pay it You don't have to worry about money. If you can help me, I'll help you. I'm going home. I have something to do. Hello, yes . I'll go home .