A number of top Trump picks on Capitol Hill today as they prepare for their upcoming confirmation fights. And while many Senate Republicans seem completely on board with the president elect selections, others are raising potential concerns today. Let's bring in CNN's Kaitlan Collins, who's covering the Trump transition for us in West Palm Beach, Florida. Kaitlan, we're just learning that the Trump team has signed a memorandum of understanding with the U.S. Justice Department, which means that Trump's nominees, including those on the Hill today, will start undergoing background checks. Tell us more. Yeah, Jake, this is a notable development given the delay here. Typically, this is something that an incoming president does pretty quickly after they win an election. They do sign this this agreement and others with the the current administration. So this process can start. And obviously the Justice Department memorandum of understanding has been one of the biggest ones, because it does allow the FBI to start conducting those background checks on the senior most aides that Trump is trying to put in his cabinet or in his top positions inside the white House. It means that they can start looking at classified information as well as this begins to get underway. And the reason, Jake, that this is so notable that it's happening now is because we are hearing from a lot more vocal Republican senators saying they do want to see the FBI conduct background checks, that the ones that the Trump team had talked about, having private investigators or private companies carry out, just was not going to carry the same weight with these Republican senators, some of whom may be on the fence about some of these nominees when it comes to how they're vetting and looking at them, because obviously, the FBI background check process is done to make sure that these people have a full understanding of what is in their background and whether or not they should be trusted with the nation's most classified secrets. And so, looking at that from that perspective, Jake, this is an announcement that came today from the Trump team with a statement from the incoming chief of staff, Susie Wiles, about getting this process going because there have been some concerns internally. One, the Republican senators were going to ultimately demand this. Certainly those that are on the fence. And two, that it would delay the confirmation process because typically for the attorney general, for the secretary of state, for those top jobs, those are done pretty quickly after the incoming president is inaugurated, because they need those people in place at those obviously, those key and critical agencies, Jake. And so a few things, though, to note here. One, it's not totally clear that they are going to submit all of Trump's picks to get background checks. That is something that we're still trying to determine from our sources of what this process is going to look like. And if every cabinet pick is actually going to have to submit to an FBI background check for these senators who are going to be vetting them and what that looks like. And, Jake, I'll also remind you, this was a big issue in Trump's first term when it came to security clearances. It led to the ouster of his staff secretary, Rob Porter, after they found troubling information and his background in regards to women. But also when there was Trump was given advice by top officials in his administration not to grant Jared Kushner a security clearance. He overrode those concerns and granted him one anyway, even though he had said at the time that he wasn't going to be involved in that process. So how this all shakes out still matters, Jake. But this is notable because it does jumpstart that process, as we were hearing from key Republican senators saying that they did want to see background checks. All right. Kaitlan Collins, thanks so much. Caitlin, of course, is working on new reporting on the Trump transition. And you can look for more of that on her show, The Source, which airs tonight and every weeknight at 9 p.m. eastern here on CNN. Let's go to CNN's Manu Raju live for us on Capitol Hill on Monday. What are you hearing from Republicans, especially when it comes to Trump's pick for Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, who's on the Hill pressing the flesh and meeting with Republican senators today? Yeah. In this meeting that's about to start in a matter of minutes with Senator Eric Schmitt of Missouri. This coming after a number of Republicans are simply not saying how they would come down, whether they would support this nomination, but acknowledging that this could be a difficult road because Democrats are likely to be in unison opposing this nominee. And more than three Republican senators, if they were to vote against him, that would mean that you could not get the votes to become confirmed. Are much more than three Republican senators who have concerns have questions about these allegations of misconduct that have come out in various reports. And what key senator, earlier today, Senator Lindsey Graham acknowledged a tough road ahead. And for Hexa to get the votes. Some of these articles are very disturbing. He you know, obviously as a chance to defend himself here. But, you know, some of this stuff is it's going to be difficult. You know time will tell. I like I'm known for a very, very long time. This is and the other senators, including Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa, someone who is herself has been a survivor of sexual assault and has called for reforms at the Pentagon on how it handles those crimes, has been notably undecided about this nomination. In fact, she was asked earlier today by our colleague Ted Barrett about her concerns, and she indicated she doesn't have a thorough and frank conversation with her. Said later this week. Now, it's still possible, Jake, that these Republican senators could ultimately fall in line, but there's little margin for error. One key senator, Senator Susan Collins of Maine. I asked her if she has concerns about all these reports and the allegations of misconduct involving hacks that she said she wants to see that full FBI background check review, all those allegations. She said those all need to be investigated by the FBI before she makes a determination here. So a long road ahead for her set to get this job as a lot of Republican senators right now undecided. All right, Monty Raja, thanks so much. Let's jump right in with our panel. And Mike, you heard Senator Lindsey Graham there saying he says confirmation will be difficult now that we know the FBI background checks are in process. Although who knows if Hegseth is going to get one or or not. do you think Republicans are nervous about what might come forward from that process? No, I actually, I and let's just assume that Hegseth is going to be one of the individuals that if not all of the nominees that will have background checks. What sounds like some Republicans are demanding, demanding and insisting on it. I think it's a game changer, mainly because at some point with all of the allegations that are against Seth, they were going to have to go to a background check anyway. I just don't know politically how they would have avoided it. And if they had waited much longer, it would have delayed the confirmation hearing because they would have demanded. The Democrats will absolutely demand this, and I'm sure several Republicans will demand, if you're going to do it, for one, you're going to do it for all. So if they had delayed this, we would not have had votes as soon as possible on a lot of these nominees, and that would have delayed the whole process. So I think what Caitlin was, reporting on today is going to be very helpful to getting these people across the finish line. Now, the Individ ual allegations, that's something else to to talk about. So, no, you're a Christian. Soltis Anderson is on the show frequently. Her polling firm posted that Americans support most of the people Trump has nominated to key roles. You can see Marco Rubio, the secretary of state nominee, receives the most net support plus nine, followed by Vivek Ramaswamy at plus five for Doge. I guess, Pete Hegseth has the lowest support at minus two. That's only after Matt Gates withdrew his nomination. Do you think that matters to this process? Oh, definitely. Because so much of how Trump has been picking his cabinet nominees is based on who presents well on TV, who can help push the value culture war narrative that helped propel the campaign. But governing is fundamentally different. And the U.S. military, the Pentagon, is the largest employer in the country. The public has direct interaction with that agency, probably more so than any other, that some of these places can be very obscure. The challenge of coming out of the gate for my headset, saying he doesn't believe women should serve is that they're 20% of the military already nearly 20%. Recruitment is down. In general. How do you suddenly go into this environment as effectively the CEO and then tell your people you believe in them, you want them to do better, but also discredit many of the people who are already serving. Make it harder to recruit and strengthen your workforce while on top of that, facing all of these other allegations, you want to weigh in on Hegseth. I mean, I think he's ludicrously unqualified for the job. You know, he's never had a senior position in national security. He's ever run the organization of more than a dozen people. He didn't do very well in a couple of small organizations. He did run, I don't even care. I don't care about the personal stuff. But it's such an insult. Honestly, to the entire National Security Committee to nominate him for a job that Bob Gates and Leon Panetta and so many have. Dick Cheney. And what whatever you think of each of these individuals, Bill Cohen, a serious people have had, of all some cabinet jobs, you give them to some political person, it's not a big deal. But defense report reporting job. Speaking of serious people, former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg warned against confirming Robert F Kennedy Jr as health secretary. Here's what he said at a health conference in D.C.. Take a listen. Putting RFK junior in charge of that would be beyond dangerous. It would be medical malpractice on a mass scale. Why would president elect Trump expend so much political capital on this guy who is really of the left? Robert F Kennedy Jr well, I may take, initial, exception with the political capital. I don't know that he's spending a lot of political capital on, on these nominees. when some political capital needed to be spent on gates, gates withdrew. I think he, you know, this election was a disruption election from the perspective of president elect Trump. He is going to push as many nominees that may seem unqualified, may seem, to the left as possible to see how far he can move the needle on all of this. And in his mind, the American people voted to change government as usual. And that's what these nominees represent.