(mysterious music) - Hey, how's it goin'? Hey, pay attention to me. You're not paying attention to me and I need you to focus my name is Bailey Sarian and to my podcast, which is And if you're like, &quot;What's this? I've never heard of this before.&quot; Well, guess what? This is like, my opportunity I've learned with you you probably don't think about. I'm just a really curious person and I wanna know everything, so I figured I'd sit down with my friends and tell And guess what? Today is real good. Real hot, real juicy. Also morbid, but it depends Yeah! So listen, lemme tell you how I got here. It wasn't that long ago when words used to mean something, you know? If you ever read like classic letters from the 1800s or classic books... Oo, oo, oo, I just Highly recommend. Go get that shit. Anyways. But when you like read all that stuff or you have read all of that stuff, you start to notice about what they said. It was like a performance, right? For example, I got a quote here for you. Let me tell you what this is saying. I don't know where it's from. &quot;Behold, your beauty is as Your eyes are like doves. Your body is a delectable odyssey.&quot; Stuff like that, you know? Today we don't really have any words. We say stuff like, &quot;I'm dead,&quot; or, &quot;DTF.&quot; That's just sad. We're not very creative are we, you know? The only people who can say they are dead are like maybe dead people. Fire, savage, slaps. Oo, slaps? I hate that. &quot;That slaps.&quot; Oh, God. These words used to mean something. Take for instance the word torture. I know, it's outta left Let's all agree to stop using that is just kind of annoying. Like for example, the other day to call &quot;Oh my God, I went to the DMV today. It's torture.&quot; You and I both know what I mean torture used to mean actual like, torture. And when it comes to thinking honestly in history, we humans have come up with some wild and honestly pretty So when I was looking into one specific torture device is something from medieval Europe called The Armchair of Inquiries. First of all, iconic name. I could not get over that. Much better than what my therapist calls the Couch of Confessions. Now, this was a wooden chair, but not just any wooden chair, nay nay. The Armchair of Inquiries was special. The seat, backrest and in rows of sharp spikes. And we'll talk more later but like, man, who came up with that idea? That'd take some serious thought. It's just giving me real DIY vibes, almost like someone went to was doing an arts and crafts project, loved the purple felt, glitter, and 27 steak knives to make this chair. Murder with assistance by Michaels. Not sponsored. Anyway, this device set me down hole, hole, hole, looking into all sorts of And I'll tell you right now, this episode does not disappoint. After we're done here, you're gonna be very in medieval Europe because it seems like anyone could be accused of anything and end up in something like Now if you're like me, you've already been to one of I mean, of course. Hello, standard. And they always have looking contraptions like the Pear of Anguish, Lucifer's Nail File, the Iron Maiden. Like, even if you haven't you might have heard of some of them because they're just that iconic. Like the Iron Maiden was completely lined with metal spikes. Not something you wanna be Well, guess what? The Iron Maiden and a whole bunch of other supposedly medieval They weren't around at It wasn't until the late 1800s when circuses and carnivals started to become popular that con artists and showmen started to charge people to come see these fake Eh, for shock value. It's the OG clickbait. And we're still doing it today because it's just as effective. People love to imagine their worst fears played out, I guess. In 2005 someone created for a torture device which kinda looked like a wolverine claw, but I guess it turns out it was fake. Like, there's a lot of and even in the torture museums, a lotta the ones they have they're fake, they're not actually real. And I thought that was really interesting and I wanna share that with you. You're welcome. The craziest thing about all is that the real methods of torture that were used back in the day were actually like a lot more crazier. They even got very creative. I'm talking like, &quot;Game of Thrones&quot; level. That's what I've been told. I never saw &quot;Game of Thrones,&quot; but I hear it was pretty brutal. And people have been finding creative ways to hurt each other since I mean, back then without social media they had to figure out other and one of the best outlets Party. So, before we talk about torture has had some universal rules and one of the most popular and they did not torture their own people, which was interesting that when it comes to torture. But I mean, that's cool. Everything else pretty much was A-okay, but you couldn't torture your own people, had to be randoms. So throughout history, most of it has been inflicted of war and enslaved people. And one of the earliest examples of this that we have actually comes from Val. Valerian, I guess that's was a Roman emperor back I guess he was eventually So Valerian, he was taken prisoner and because he was a foreigner his captors, well, that to do whatever the hell So the Persian king, I this is what was said, okay? But he used Valerian as So, literally he would when he needed to mount his horse. Like, he would step on his back. Or let's say he's sitting and lounging and he wants to put his feet up. Guess what? &quot;Val, get over here. Get on all fours. Lemme put my feet up.&quot; Val tried to offer the king a lump sum in order to be released, but unfortunately the king was tempted, he liked the footstool. So, this pissed Val off, and the king was honestly offended. The fact that this Valerian guy would dare to address him as an equal so he could be set free was insulting and the king was like, &quot;You know what my little I'm gonna teach you a little lesson.&quot; So, the story goes, the story goes, like this is some real shit. The story goes that he told him to open his mouth, and forced him to swallow molten gold. First of all, what the Well, imagine lava going down your throat, melting everything it around your organs. That's what was happening to Val. But the king was not to do more to his little So, the king had him, And then he takes the skin, stuffs it with like straw and stuff and like sews it together, and guess what? He kept Valerian's skin/now scarecrow in the main Persian temple. It was was like a trophy or decor, but also making a statement, you're gonna end up just Mr. Scarecrow boy.&quot; Oh yeah, bitch, like this guy was morbid. Treating a foreign leader like this was obviously incredibly insulting to Valerian's people in Rome who would later defeat Persia and reclaim Valerian's skin in order to give him a proper burial. Look, Joan, if you speak Molten gold. I'm gettin' inspired. Not that it's right, but sometimes it's necessary to let people know that So at least Valerian's That's really nice. But what the Persian king did to Val is one of the most popular sending a message. Duh, duh, duh That's what it really comes down to, okay? 'Cause look, this comes up years later with the Catholic church. The Roman Catholic church was essentially the highest power in Europe at this time. Like, they were runnin' the show. This is back in the Middle Ages. Like, the church was their government, the government was the church But as technology advances learn new things, get new some of them are naturally going to gravitate towards different beliefs, like Judaism or Islam. Now, Catholicism was but the rise of these the absolute crap out of And most of all, Daddy Pope. He was worried. These people are all going to hell and we gotta get rid of that, you know? Hi, just popping in here to mention a word from our sponsor, Zocdoc. So lemme tell you, with Zocdoc, you can find quality listen to you and prioritize your care. Refreshing bedside manner if you will? There's nothing worse and trying to find a doctor I mean, have you seen what's Sometimes it's just a hot &quot;I'm lookin' for a doctor,&quot; you know? And with Zocdoc, you have a trusted guide to connect you to your favorite doctor that you haven't met yet. Don't just take it from me. Millions of people just like to find and book a doctor patient reviewed and it fits their needs and schedules just right. If you're looking for an easy optricianist, what are other doctors? Lots of other selections, to zocdoc.com/darkhistory and download the Zocdoc app for free. Then find and book a Many are available within 24 hours. That's Zocdoc, Zocdoc.com/dark history. So in 1252, the Pope the use of torture for heretics. Now, a heretic, to put it easily that's like anyone who or the beliefs of the church itself. If that sounds really vague, it's because, yeah, like Most people associate heresy with being caught practicing witchcraft or like doing somethin' But it could also apply So as you can imagine, things get a little loosey can be accused of being a The pope essentially said, &quot;You're either with us You're against us, you're an enemy, and that must be handled.&quot; And yeah, that scared a lotta people. So by the 1400s, the Pope and the Vatican are getting very worried and like all this free thought. &quot;Mm mm, we don't like that. They're thinking, we don't like that.&quot; So together with the the church creates a group called... Duh, duh, duh The Spanish Inquisition. First of all, if you give them a little Google. Please hold. I'm Googling their 'cause I forgot to look it up before I filmed this, thank you. Oh, fancy, I love red. I love red. They're in all red if you're not Googling. They're in all red from head to toe. Great for those of us you don't have to worry about or anything, you know what I'm saying (chuckles)? Red from head to toe. Since a bunch of the high ranking Inquisition the Inquisition became synonymous with these floor length red robes. It's very dramatic. I love red. The main goal of the Inquisition &quot;Identify heretics,&quot; or in other words, anyone who was straying off the good path of Roman Catholicism. Okay, so here's what they did. They had eyes everywhere, okay? Snitches runnin' around who were like spies in And they'd go to the guys &quot;Hey, I saw my neighbor And then the Inquisition would be like, &quot;Oh, shit,&quot; you know? So that's how they kept their eyes on everybody, by snitches. Rats. Loser. Okay. Now the Inquisition was in the sense that they when it came to torture or as The Spanish Inquisition rule book said that torment could only So humane of them. Way to go, you guys. I mean, 15 minutes doesn't have you ever tried to I did that one time, it was too much. So, 15 minutes, I'm busy, I can't do that. So as you can imagine, it was 15 minute... You get it. The Inquisition had three forms of torture that were the most common. The first one, it's called The Strapado, which to me sounds like a strap on. I'm like, hm, you want me to But no, that's not what it was. Your hands would be tied behind your back and then a rope would hoist After a minute you might be okay, but after 10, your shoulders Number two was called The Toca, which sounds like a perfume but it actually means waterboarding. Specifically the Inquisition into the prisoner's throat until they were nearly unconscious and felt like they were It was just fun and games. The third most popular torture method used during this time was The Porto or &quot;The This was a big wooden table or frame with shackles on either end Those shackles would then be pulled, essentially stretching your body out like an X shape, you know? Like, you know, it's kinda kinky. But like that, like your and then it would just stretch. Bitch. Yep, you're stretchin'. Sounds fun, right? Sounds hot and kinky. No, it's not. This would actually cause your joints to dislocate and then Rough. Now another rule of the they were not allowed to kill you, but they could cut it pretty close. And here's the thing, you could get hit in multiple rounds of 15 minute torment sessions depending on the crime you were accused of. Maybe you were caught Two rounds of torment. Or maybe something more Now, that could get you Do the math, 15 minutes x 8. I don't know. Lemme know in the comment section 'cause that's a long time sounds like. Okay, now because of these practices, the Spanish Inquisition is credited with really putting torture on the map. They were the trendsetters, maybe not in a good way, but a way. So, in the year 1542, Rome They're like, &quot;Oh my god, Spain is having so much fun over there, we should do that too.&quot; So the church kicked off and they were like, &quot;We love the torture, but we need to have And Rome, they popped off. They were like, &quot;Torture, fun. Let's up it a notch.&quot; They didn't have strict rules. So for example, they were allowed people to be tortured for up and at this time, actually, like it wasn't just limited In fact, civil courts all around Europe were using the Inquisition's methods but with no time restrictions In other words, &quot;Everybody, you get to torture, And it's just really cool to I mean, they started horses, wheels, rats, you name it. They were gettin' creative with it and figuring out a way Fun. Now, the Romans didn't invent the wheel, but they did use it to kill one guy. And while no one deserves he kinda had it coming for him. This is definitely a little that I wanna do a &quot;Murder, on this guy because (blows raspberry). There's this guy, Peter Niers. He was a German serial that he had killed over 500 people, including 24 fetuses, which he cut out of pregnant women. Mm hm. So if you're gonna torture anybody, it's gonna be this guy, right? So, at least you know. So allegedly Peter would use their remains in satanic rituals, and also he participated Mm hm, oh shit. Now, when this guy was caught, oh, oh, this led the church and to believe that this man, Peter, he was a powerful dark they wanted to hunt this man Peter was a very sneaky before he was recognized and was captured and caught and brought in for the Romans to have some fun with. So the year's 1581. Romans had gotten ahold of this Peter guy, and they did not hold back. I'm all smiling like (laughs), because again, if you're gonna sure, we can all get behind this guy. So, here's what they did. They ended up torturing him for like over the course of three days. On the first day, the Romans tore strips of Peter's flesh from his body and then poured hot oil right Mm hm, ouch. Talk about zero to 60 real quick. On the second day of torture The Romans did to Pete Hot oil on his feet So after they peel his skin they then dragged his Now, essentially this which had me thinking like, &quot;Oh, I bet that's where like, the expression roast comes from,&quot; like when Comedy Central does it? Maybe. Now it might seem like I'm but I wanna remind everyone at home that when Peter was arrested, the authorities discovered body parts of multiple fetuses in his suitcase. I'm honestly surprised a human can survive all of this and live But Peter did. On the third day of Okay. So, on the third day of his imprisonment, the Romans dragged Peter outside where they broke him on a wheel. Now this thing, it's called the wheel. This was another torturous device and this was an of killing someone. Breaking someone on the wheel was the phrase for when a big wagon wheel was slammed down onto somebody repeatedly. In Peter's case it And what this did was break their bones in multiple locations. It was such a brutal form of torture that it was reserved for and murderers, like Peter. The whole point was to torture the convict as harshly as possible without which would be considered too merciful. After Peter's legs and arms were broken, his legs and arms were then threaded through the spokes of the wagon wheel and secured then with a rope. Just for a little extra flare, the whole wheel body and kind of like a crucifixion. And after all this was said and done, the prisoner would be left dangling on the wheel to slowly which at times could often take days. Talk about slow and painful. Jeez, Louise. But for Peter, they really showed up. They went above and beyond for this man and they decided to dismember his body before cutting it and to tiny pieces. Now I will say it is a little refreshing to hear story about who honestly, I'm sorry because back then thanks to tons of people were for no damn good reason. Especially women, as always, like we learned in our witches episode. Yeah, so that's a problem. Like, I had a funny feeling deep down that there were probably some creative medieval torture devices for women specifically, What can I say? I just like, no lie, I don't know, it's just like something told me that that probably happened. Hi, popping in here for a word from our friends over at Apostrophe. I feel like one of the biggest things that some of us get unsolicited Like, if I share with someone or struggling with acne, they're like, &quot;Oh, have you tried drinking water?&quot; And you're like, &quot;What? I never thought of that. That's wild.&quot; 'Cause you don't wanna be rude, but deep down you're like, &quot;Damn, like, have I drank water? I've been drinking water.&quot; Anyways, everyone's got an opinion. That's why I'm excited to Yes, I love Apostrophe. With apostrophe, I can get real advice from real experts on my skin. Apostrophe is an online with an expert dermatology team to get customized treatment So whether you have new skin or maybe you're dealing with like, &quot;Girl, I'm dry,&quot; or &quot;I've had this dark spot,&quot; or whatever you got goin' on, Apostrophe can get you access to doctors who can prescribe oral and topical medications that use clinically proven Okay, so all you have to do is go to their website their online consultation. Then you gotta snap a few (Bailey imitates camera snapping) Like any concerns you're having, and then you'll be connected to a board certified dermatologist who will create your So whether it's a weird rash you may have or for me it's acne. Whenever I get stressed, girl It's so rude. Anyways, Apostrophe's got you. They got your back. Like I had mentioned when I get stressed, acne just pops up right on my face and it happens all the time. With Apostrophe, I was a specifically tailored Plus, they'll save you a trip to the pharmacy by mailing your medication or treatments straight to your door. Plus they come in cute packaging. I love cute packaging. I'm a sucker for that. Right now we have a special Get your first visit for only $5 at apostrophe.com/darkhistory when you use our code DARKHISTORY. That's a savings of $15, baby. This code is only available And to get started, just go to apostrophe.com/darkhistory and click Get Started. Then use our code DARKHISTORY at signup and you'll get your Woo hoo! Thank you Apostrophe for partnering with me on today's episode. Now let's get back to today's story. There was something Which maybe you're like, &quot;What is that?&quot; And you're guessing it right now. Well, guess what? It was ripping titties off with hot irons. It looks like a claw almost and then it goes around like salad tongs, okay? But claws and then just goes just the whole titty. And once they had like a firm grasp, it would be ripped away from the body. This is probably where the I don't know because it's not in the name, but that to me is a real, that's a snatch. Do you wanna talk about snatched? (air whooshing) That's a... Okay. And this tool will be used on women who were accused of or maybe performing an There was also something Mm. Which was reserved for disorderly women. Oh dear, here we go. I mean, define disorderly woman. No one knows. Whatever that means. It was like up to whoever It was basically a teeter-totter and on one side it had a chair, like a wooden normal ass lookin' chair. And then on the other side, a pulley system that could like lift it up into the air, right? Now the chair, it kinda reminds me of like a squatty potty situation in a way because the chair's bottom would be completely cut out. So, your ass went through the chair, then they would tie the woman to the chair and like hoist her into the air so everyone in town and throwing stuff at the women who were just hanging up there Yeah, I know. I don't know. Like, their ass is... I don't know. But honestly I would take that one over the other ones, right? I'll sit in the that chair and just yell and throw stuff at me. I'll shit on you. Watch me. Yeah. Anyway, so these devices against women were not even the most I also found a device Yeah, or just women in general. Mm hm. It's been called one of the most misogynistic torture devices for women ever made. Congratulations. Most of the time it was actually husbands that would request their wives to be subjected to this type of torture. Mm hm, oh yeah. Your dirty ass husband could be like, &quot;I'm tired of her ass.&quot; Witch. It was used on the in order to be put in I'm talking about a device Now, lemme tell you about One of the earliest uses was in 1567 on a Scottish Oh, Bessie. Now, Bessie did one of the worst things you could possibly do during this time. I know. Wait for it. She called out a man for lying. (gasps) How dare she? Bessie! Get it to fucking gether, Bessie. How dare you, Bessie! It was a big deal how... I am so... You know, every day I wake up and I say, &quot;Praise God I was not born Like, it must have sucked. Oh my God, right? Am I right? High five. Great. So I guess Bessie was buying I'm sorry I'm not laughing, but I am because Bessie from a man in town and she accused him of ripping her off in So, the man demanded Bessie How dare she disrespect him? Fuck her though, you know? It was called a Scolds Bridle because in medieval time a woman from the lower class when it came to speaking And a bridles is that thing that goes like, in a horse's mouth. So the person who's riding the horse can stop him from galloping Horse lessons 101 with me, Bailey Sarian. So, the bridle goes in the mouth and there's reins and stuff, right? Or like, whatever. And you're sittin' on the horse. And then like if the horse is galloping, you want 'em to slow down you pull back and this bar, here's my hairbrush goes like, ah! Bridle. And that's basically what Let me describe this thing to you guys. There were definitely like a few different forms of but the one Bessie had to endure was a mask made of a Now, it had a metal strap on the top and the sides so it would fit tightly onto a woman's head and be Like you couldn't take On top of the mask, there twisted animal horns. There were cutouts around the And if you take a look at the picture, it looks like a scary from a &quot;Saw&quot; movie. Like let's be real, &quot;Saw,&quot; that movie fucked me up when I was a kid. Once the mask was placed she would have to open her This gag was a flat piece of metal with a large spike on it That way if she talked, you see what would happen She'd be stabbing her tongue, her mouth. It was just scary and uncomfortable, but most of all humiliating have to walk around with this shit on, especially if your bozo who requested you be put in the bridle. Husbands would tie a leash to their wives who are wearing the Scolds Bridle and force her to parade around town. Oh, God. In Bessie's case, she was paraded around town while blood was dripping out of her mouth. And then worst of all the town's people were actually encouraged So they're like, &quot;Please, I don't know, just do shit to them. Make 'em feel bad.&quot; And they did just that while the husband is dragging poor Bessie around. (sighs) So that's fun, huh? Thoughts, reflections? No, you cannot parade me You sick bitch. I will not put that on for you. The next story was, well, There's a quote that says, &quot;Anything a fiction history has already done And ain't that the truth? So, guess what? We're now in Hungary 1514 during something called the Peasant War. The Peasant War was an uprising The government at the the peasant's food, clothes, and freedoms in general to united together to overthrow the king under the leadership of Sadly, the peasants lost this war and they had even more of Gyorgy, which is such a cute name, huh? Was captured by the government and sentenced to death by torture and they weren't going to send a message to the local peasants. With a crowd of royals and captured peasant prisoners watching, oh, and also a live band playing happy music in the background, Gyorgy's torture began. First, guards stripped Gyorgy naked and tied up his feet. Then they teased him, They brought in a few and forced them to sit But this wasn't any old This was an iron chair that slowly heating up the chair like an oven. So, the longer Gyorgy sat on it, the more his skin and flesh melted onto the actual seat itself. (gasps) Yeah. His balls melted right on that chair, 'cause that's not enough. Of course not. They then brought in a You know, like those fancy wand sticks that royals need for some reason? They always got one. So then they shoved this into his open palm. Then to complete the royal look, they brought in a blazing hot crown and placed it on his head. (fingers snapping) They went off. The dedication to this piece was like wow, because like they gave him a throne, his own crown and a scepter, but all of it's melting Like, wow, you guys are So Gyorgy, poor, poor Gyorgy, had to sit on this slowly heating throne for over an hour while the crowd gathered and happily watched. &quot;Here's your crown, Peasant King. Here's your throne. You don't like it? Aw, poor little baby. You wanna be a king? Go ahead.&quot; Taunting him. Then 'cause again, not enough, the guards decided to They brought out Gyorgy's brother, one of the imprisoned peasant soldiers, and they decided that they were going to murder him right in front of Gyorgy. As if seeing your own right in front of you wasn't enough, they then cut up his Then several guards heated and they started pulling flesh from all over Gyorgy's body. Guards then told nine to finish killing Gyorgy themselves. How? Well, through cannibalism, of course. Eat 'em. That's right. They told them to go over to Gyorgy, bite and swallow chunks of flesh where the hot iron had Or if they didn't want well, then they would be Four of the nine peasants refused to follow through with this and were killed on the spot the same way Gyorgy's brother was, murdered and then cut up The other five peasants started After taking several bites and swallowing, they were taken out of their You know, at what cost, eh? Gyorgy died on the throne that day. His corpse was then ripped into pieces. They displayed different It was a warning to the peasants. Don't even think about or speaking up or doing An interesting fact, that that could be the origin of what we know as The Armchair of Inquiries. HelloFresh, HelloFresh, I love HelloFresh. No matter what your lifestyle HelloFresh has recipes that will make you and everyone at your table excited to eat. And my favorite part with HelloFresh is that you'll only in HelloFresh's recipes. With HelloFresh, you get farm fresh pre-portioned ingredients delivered right to your doorstep so you can skip trips to the grocery store and count on HelloFresh to and on top of that, affordable. And that's why it's America's If this sounds like your cup of tea, go to hellofresh.com/darkhistory65 and use code DARKHISTORY65 for Yeah, they are goin' off. They're like, &quot;Here, have it. Take it all.&quot; Go to hellofresh.com/darkhistory65 and use code DARKHISTORY65 for Again, a big thank you to HelloFresh, America's number one meal kit. For our final torture device, we're going to cover one of No, I'm not talking about family dinners. I'm talking about The And get your head out of the gutter, it has nothing to do with titties. Now, The Rack was like the shit, okay? Now, The Rack was a movie star. It was timeless, simple, yet elegant. It should have won all the And not only that, The Rack Anyone who was anyone in on the trusty Rack. I'm talkin' the Greeks, the Romans, the Russians, the French, the Brits. So you're probably What did it look like? Tell me. Tell me right now.&quot; Okay, so listen. So there were two major One version looked like kinda like something you'd see in like an Addams family Then another popular version looked like a long wide wooden ladder that was placed on an incline, but it didn't matter which for The Rack because at the end of the day they both had something in common. On each end of the ladder or there were two rotating logs or wheels. Mm hm, mm hm, mm hm. Yep, mm hm. Rotation is happening. So, let's say a convicted &quot;Come on down (vocalizing),&quot; you know? &quot;You're up next!&quot; They'd be taken into a room Now this would be or a dark place. Next, the person would The person's ankles would be tied to one of the rotating logs with either like a rope or a chain and then the wrist would You're kinda put in that stretch position. Kinda hot, but then it This put the person in a Think Superman flying through the air. Great, I see you're imagining it. The interrogators would then They'd grill the prisoner with all sorts of questions about what If their answer was unacceptable or they didn't like the answer that this guy was giving they'd start to crank of The Rack just very slowly to make the prisoner really feel it, live in it a little bit. Little by little the prisoner way beyond how like a As you can imagine, this and the prisoner would be screaming, hollering, shouting, which is why normally in like a dungeon or somewhere dark because it was just so loud. They're so dramatic when But the most spine chilling, or (chuckles) spine ripping is that as a human being is there are blood curdling sounds made by joints and bones ripping. Yeah, it makes noise. And popping. I don't know what that sounds like and honestly I don't think I wanna know. I think I'm good. And the scene was so gruesome to watch this happen to other people was enough to actually and usually get a confession. But confessions weren't the only reason they used this platform of pain. They used it to pry They used it to send a message like earlier with the Valerian guy. They also used it to set a grim example and keep people in their place. And it's been used like that The origin story of The Rack Researchers aren't positive which civilization was the first to use it to turn people into stretch Armstrong. But some texts say it first pops up in the Greek empire around 300 B.C. Apparently famous Greek, used The Rack to torture who were planning to assassinate him. Well, in the year 1477, there was another version and the British called it because it was created by the Duke of, maybe you guessed it, Exeter. And guess he considered No, I'm not sure. Ugh. But while this Rack was probably it wasn't until about 150 years later when the Duke's grizzly daughter made it into the spotlight. In 1605 there was a group who were really off at His name was like, King James I. They were super pissed. The reason they were so pissed was because they felt the on the entire kingdom. And not only this, the rebels who were Catholics and targeted for their beliefs. They said it was time for Catholicism to retake the English throne. So, they came up with a On New November 5th, King James was scheduled to give a speech at the House of Parliament in London. Mm hm, mm hm. Now parliament is essentially the English version of Congress. And like, this speech was a big deal. It was an event announcing the start of a new session of lawmaking. Since the rebels knew the king was going to be there on they decided that it was the perfect place to assassinate him, kill So they came up with an idea. &quot;Why don't we blow up Yeah, they're like high fiving. Like, &quot;Yeah, that's such a good idea.&quot; But what the rebels didn't know is that some bitch ass tattle tale sent in an anonymous just before the event. Ugh, this note told them about the plot. When, where, and how it was gonna happen. Just all the details honestly in a convenient little package. Anyway, in the middle of the night on the morning of the big event, royal authorities searched the House of Parliament. There they found a man in a black coat, a wide brimmed hat and and wearing boots with the spurs. Boots with the spurs The whole club was lookin' at her Or him. (Bailey vocalizing) That song actually goes Low, low, low, low They were underneath in the crypt. Anyway, so this mystery Zorro looking guy, his name was Guy, Guy Fox. Yeah, great name. I love a name like this I could get behind. Guy? You can't mess that one up. So Guy was one of the Catholic So the king's goons confronted him and they place him under arrest. I mean, obviously. He's gonna blow up the place. Not only this, they see that not two, but 36 barrels of gun powder. Enough to rip apart the He went above and beyond for sure. This became known as the gunpowder plot. Now, it didn't work. I know, it could have been cool. I mean, not really. Uh, eh, I don't know. And now poor Guy was caught And it's not fair because it He was just like, &quot;Oh, you know what? Like, was he willing to die if he was...&quot; It doesn't matter. I'm getting off track. Okay, look, so he gets caught. Guess what? Your turn, Guy. So that night Guy is taken Mm hm, I went there one time. It's real cool. Because today like, the Tower of London is the home of the crown jewels in like of the British monarchy, and like millions of It's so cool and historic. I hear it's a tourist trap But from the year 1,100 to about 1952, it was actually a brutal, Sorry about that, prison. I didn't know that. I was like, &quot;Oh my God, jewels, oo. Buildings, culture (giggles).&quot; On November 6th, 1605, King James is, eh, So he sent an order over the use of torture on Guy so he would give up the The order said quote, the gentler tortures are to God speed your good work.&quot; Motivational words I guess. So first, Guy was placed that no adult could stand comfortably. You sit or even lay down. There was no physical way for him to rest, which in itself sounds awful. Step two, Guy was taken into a torture chamber underneath the tower. There he endured something These were iron handcuffs which were then attached to a rope. Guy was then lifted off destroying his hands, While hanging he was interrogated, now at times by the king himself. But Guy was no rat. He did not give anyone's name up. So, they move on to step three. It's time for Guy to go on a little date with the Duke's daughter, Guy was dragged into a of the towers of his prison. There he was laid on to his ankles and wrists. Slowly but surely, the interrogators asked He kept refusing, so he Turnin' the dial. (Bailey slurping) I don't know what a dial sounds like, but just imagine. And all that popping and yeah, that was happenin' to Guy, and not just for a few hours. Guy would end up spending almost three entire days on The Rack, going through just horrifying, Eventually he started to give names, and King James couldn't because now he's like, Yippee Skippy.&quot; But even though Guy gave the Guy's torture was not over. I mean, not even close. After sitting in his jail Guy was dragged out of the Tower of London on January 31st, 1606. He was then tied to a horse and dragged through the streets of London. God damn you guys, like calm down. Jeez. Dramatic much? Oh my God. When they arrived at Guy was forced, 'cause he's Guy was forced to watch get literally ripped apart. First they were hanged. He's like, &quot;Yeah, you're Look what you did, Guy. We're gonna watch it together. I'ma get some popcorn.&quot; So, first he's watching. First they were hanged, but while they were still they chopped off their dicks. Unknown. For fun, I guess. They burned the dick in front of them. Like (laughs). Again, I don't know. And then they would have and then they would be sliced open and like their guts and And that's when they would die. After that their bodies were quartered, meaning that they were So I don't know how, but they were. Then their heads were cut off. Again, a little overkill but they love the dramatics over there. I don't know what it is. It's like you guys are, Well then again, they were They didn't have anything to do. So, next, it was Guy's turn. You're up, bitch. So at this point, he's weak as hell 'cause he's been enduring But as he climbed the ladder and the rope was placed around his neck, he found just enough energy to really stick it to the man and jump. So the rope tightened killing him instantly. Which to you and I we're But it's kind of great in this situation because this meant that he didn't have to go through feeling like him being sliced open with Like Guy was, he beat them to it, okay? Which I think... Anyways, Guy's body was and distributed to the four Now this was to send a who dare try to take down King James. And if that wasn't enough... 'Cause it's never enough for these people, they even decided to add some They stuck prisoners' heads, They take the heads of the Yeah, a little kebab and then Yep, they did that. So you know those like you do every year? Ah, that was some real shit. Yeah. Now this again would who saw that shit. You wanna send a message? I think that would send a I'd be like, &quot;Oh, shit, is You don't see that every day. And there is something when it comes to the Tower of London. I just think it's so interesting that thousands of tourists visit that spot every day that were once covered in the And sure, the Duke's but one of the most in the Tower of London wasn't It was rats. Like, actual rats, mm hm. Now, there were several as a form of torture, but they Rats would end up eating the human flesh. Now, these rodents were often used through the method known as the rat box. Uh huh, this is fun. I saw the pics. So first you'd get like, you tie up a prisoner on a flat surface. So, tie their arms and Second, what you gotta do, or what they would do is So, get some rats. Don't feed them. Yeah, they're hungry. Okay, so then you're gonna in like a bucket or something and you're gonna walk dump the rats onto the prisoner's stomach and then like you hold down the bucket or you just kind of let 'cause eventually what they're not gonna start because they're polite. So usually they'd have to let's say like a torch and to the rats, get the rats nice and toasty, either on the bucket in the room, just get the rats irritated, hot, goin'. And after a few minutes, the rats are obviously going that they're in danger under So then they're going to through the prisoner's stomach, of course. So you see, you're alive and then the rats eat you, If you Google the images, oh, bitch, you won't be Swear to God. Don't look it up unless So there was another version of this, which is they would stick a tube into a prisoner's butt hole. Yeah, sometimes into a vagina. They would put a tube in there. Then they would stick a close the tube, heat up You're gonna get eaten And right now, if you are not clenching your butt cheeks together, I don't know what you're doing Sometimes the guards were and didn't even care to so they'd open the prison and release a bucket of rats and the rats would just go of the prisoners until they Maybe this is the reason so Maybe it's been seared into our DNA, or maybe they just look and this is proof that Now, you can say a lot about but you can't say that And even though torture or The Armchair of Inquiries torture is still definitely used as a way of getting information. And it's interesting that some of the oldest torture rules still apply. You remember Valerian? Remember him? Back in his day you could only torture non-citizens, remember? Well that still holds up. Maybe you've heard of a little We don't have enough time but there's something interesting about who we feel we and what torture means to us today. At the end of the day, it just seems to me that other human beings, but we so I kind of feel like we've but I could be completely wrong 'cause I don't know everything, you know? Let me know down below. Well everyone, what'd you think? If you had to go out with which one would you go out with? I think I'd choose the Squatty Potty one or the Boob Snatcher I heard it's like a lizard's tail. Once it's gone, it just This is another side story, but I thought boobs growed back. Wait, nevermind actually. We'll discuss that another day. Well everyone, thank you Remember, don't be afraid to ask questions to get the whole story I'd love to hear your so make sure to use the so I can follow along. But I will say side note, torture and torture devices A lot of people don't wanna claim that they're kings and queens or whoever, like used torture on one another. Some people say it was I don't really care what you think about that hot debate that these torture devices, the ones that we at least mentioned here, were used once upon a time. So, don't take it personally. It was a real thing. Look, history's fucked (fingers snapping) I don't think we should Okay, great. Join me over on my YouTube where you can watch these episodes on Thursday after the podcast airs. And while you're there, I don't know, maybe check out my &quot;Murder, I hope you have a You make good choices. Have a seat to my Armchair but talk to you next week. Love ya. Bye bitch. (Bailey smooches) &quot;Dark History&quot; is an AudioBoom Original. This podcast is executive Dunia McNeily from 3 Arts, Kevin Grosch, and Claire Writers, Katie Burris, Allyson and me, Bailey Sarian. Shot and edited by Tafadzwa Nemarundwe and Hannah Bacher. Research provided by the And I'm your host, Bailey Sarian. (Bailey imitates whip cracking) That's a whip. (mysterious music)