Transcriber: Fiza Asif Javed 20 years ago, I was a relatively young a pediatrician that specializes a variety of different developmental down syndrome, intellectual disability, I was asked to evaluate three They had bright blue eyes and and they looked so similar that had dressed them in T-shirts Their parents were young and nervous. The boys weren't talking like something that was becoming even as their younger son was developing, in some ways surpassing his I saw the boys and I noted that They used very few words and they were met. Getting things for themselves without I asked the parents many questions, including how easy is it for To which the mother responded, There are ducks swimming on and I was jumping up and down the boys to look out the window, I referred the boys for some additional developmental assessments, and testing specific for the possibility When our evaluations were completed, I met with a parents who were joined by I told them. All the information we've and what you've told us indicates that Before I could proceed, the grandfather how can you be so calm? You've my grandsons with autism. His question stopped me in my tracks, but I managed to respond because You are all here together, ready to get the boy started in therapy. If I'm being honest, I didn't really know and I wasn't even sure what But it's what I felt compelled to say in And I believed it. I believed that As a developmental pediatrician I've communicated messages like that I've seen a wide range of responses. Tears, Anger, Fear, Denial. Relief at confirmation that their concerns reassured by well intentioned friends and I've seen fathers jump to what and mothers focus on the next day, Many parents have told me they don't a diagnosis. Regardless of their reaction, I've worked hard to make sure parents Reminding them that their But there's some things we need to do. Over the years, I've learned what I was talking to the family of those twins The thousands of patients and their the decades in between have taught me for them, their child, and even for me. So that's what I'm here to I'm here to tell you that it's going to be The family's going to be okay. And yes, Let's start with the child. One of the many wonderful a developmental pediatrician is getting Barring rare, unusual conditions, but their rates of progress may vary Expecting children to progress, to gain new skills and to manage their progress. If we don't expect them Children control three major areas that significantly impact families and when and how they use the bathroom. One of the things I've told my patients expectations that their children will They will learn to sleep they will eat a wider range of foods, and At the same time, parents and caregivers to maintain those expectations, I don't treat him any different or the mother whose young adult son In response to things he didn't To which she responded, I don't care. My patients have taught me the prejudice of low expectations, sometimes referred to as the soft This can apply to many groups, but it definitely applies to If we don't expect someone the likelihood that they I have many patients that communicate typing things they wish to express. Some of my patients are a little communicate with in this way. I asked one of my patients what helps and he typed, it's the feeling It's the feeling that they believe in me. I teach our residents and medical students enter an exam room to see a talk directly to the patient first, I have patients that have grown up and Many that attend day programs, some and some that still require a significant and supervision. I have some but many more that are not, but could be. I'm certain of it with just a little In our clinic, we have two employees, and they keep our clinic running. Rafael greets everyone that works in that the medical assistance, and even and medical students once he learns their Hi, Doctor Manning. I like your hair. I You're my friend. It's wonderful and I recently retired and as I said goodbye some of whom I care for for over what would you tell your Every one of them shared some version of I didn't even know what okay was, I couldn't have predicted the joy that The real thing. Immediately following that who has autism, what I could be to her if Sort of baiting her to say, my friend. I said, Lydia, what can I be if I'm not I can be your, Lydia responded. Her mother and I howled You know, okay may not sound but you have to understand, when families receive the news that their they are in completely uncharted territory But as time passes, the unknown becomes a little less scary. There will but the children will still grow up, which is all any parent can hope for. Those twin boys I shared about earlier. But even if they hadn't achieved or what our society typically they'd still be okay. Now let's talk about the family. As exciting as it is for me to see it's been equally exciting to see as they raise their children, working with them as they navigate the and school support and community resources all while managing their own expectations and development, has allowed me to witness a place of disintegration to finding Parenting is a bit of a competitive sport, Even more so in the disability community. While there is tremendous support across there is also regular comparison and there is enormous societal I've watched his parents pursued remedies So many parents have told me that they everything. I've seen families forgive and for moving to celebrating their One mother asked me if it was okay that I've seen families experience as milestones pass that their or as peers move past them And I've worked with families who But I've also seen those tears shift from Having a thick skin is a critical and I've seen families develop I wish this didn't have to matter, I can't think of a parent who hasn't neighbours, family members regarding what or wearing. When that child judgment is even more frequent. Our society just generally doesn't or anyone with a disability. The look, judge, comment, especially I've seen families develop some amazing I have one patient who's obsessed That's not an uncommon obsession His interest in elevators When he was riding an elevator He would jump with excitement and He could be a little disruptive. His parents made him elevator which they handed out to people when It was a great way to break the ice and to explain his behavior At the same time they were I've watched as families build We often referenced when discussing a disability. These are the classmates, family members who celebrate the wins and the everything about a This one father took such tremendous homes. He told me in elaborate detail how the house to represent different nursing Were the patients being transported The father told me that when you knew that someone, a popsicle stick, You know where that young man works today a nursing home? Countless parents have told me that they been. It changes you fundamentally, More than one father has cried, recounting how he treated classmates with and how he wishes he could go back and He's taught me patience and he's given I never would have had. The thrill he gave One mother told me how much she hated it to her telling them that her She followed that with I'm sorry for Another mother shared, how the next 60 years in this dark place? And then we met these amazing people and this amazing community that We thought we were alone until One father of two sons with autism I would be a total douchebag That brings us to me. What did I, the My career as a developmental pediatrician a diagnostic treatment and research the 90s, when autism wasn't as well known, partly because it wasn't being diagnosed The timing coincided with including whether or not Well, I was familiar with the data that in fact, cause autism. I worked with were convinced that their There are also a number of alternative for children with autism. Some things like special diets and vitamins, and other things which were a little bit Again, I had data and personal experience interventions were not effective. But families still were insistent because they had to know that In both cases, I learned that it was on these topics and that we could still It wasn't my job to convince them It was my job to be their partner on More recently, as chief of staff at I let our operational response to Covid. I was terrified in those early days, but I used lessons from How to listen, communicate clearly, and to expect it to be okay. And it was. I often think about this quote from When Breath Becomes Air. It is not the or return patients to their old selves, but to take into our arms a patient and and to work until they can and make sense of their own existence. Seeing and being part of families, standing back up and making sense of their and joy after being in a dark place has Without question, I'm different a result of working with individuals with I've learned patience, communication, and to see the value in all human beings, or talk differently. I had no idea. Years ago, when that grandfather so calm that my answer that could actually be correct. The thousands of patients and families okay. They haven't taught me how and to expect it to be okay. To have If families can be thrown this enormous a place of disintegration to standing and be better for it. I'm certain the sure enough curveballs that life will Thank you.