I'm so stoked for today. We're going to some of the The cheeseburgers forgive me if I come off a bit hyperbolic, are the best in the world ever. OK, that's high praise, because I feel like London and New York have both brought the heat Joe: OK. Yes. an honorary Angeleno. Joe: Yeah. We're going to be that have been here for a long time, and you'll see why when We're going to a couple of upstarts that are literally killing and we're going to maybe to see how the other half lives. Regardless, every burger is a little bit different, but no doubt, absolutely delicious. I've been looking forward Yeah, I really appreciate and I know this is kind the modern cheeseburger was invented. I would say that, yes. So I'm excited to taste the original cheeseburger. We started it here, we perfected it here, and today we're going Harry: Let's go. I'm excited. Joe: So, this first place Pie 'n Burger. What do they sell? Joe: Personally, I think but this is old-school, The current owner started coming here when he was 9 years old, eventually started working here, worked his way all the way up, Everything you see here, has been here since Harry: Amazing, wow. I he started working here when he was 9, and I was like, American labor But if he started coming that makes way more sense. And yeah, wow. I'm loving the One of the grills looks like Well, I am ready to You want to order? Absolutely, yeah. What are we getting? We're getting two of the they got here. By the the lettuce, tomato, onion, It's so good. I can't believe it. Got some fries in the mix, and I'm going to get a slice of pie. Harry: We're at Pie 'n Burger. We gotta try the pie. Let's go order. I'm excited. And I'm saying this now, Harry: OK. Harry: I'm slowly learning Joe: Fantastic. Server: All right, you guys. Harry: Thank you so much. Harry: OK, man, look at these! Joe: I made a judgment call. I went with the raw onion over grilled, and normally I don't like but I make an exception for this one because everything on You got obviously lettuce, You can see the Thousand Island pickles, and the I think, like, because we just right, not the double? So there's actually not in the kind of ratio perspective. But I do think that I like the wrapping because and instead of all the stuff it's contained. Burger ingenuity right You look really excited about this, so I think we should just give it a try. Cheers, man. It's got that great crunch and the tomato and the onion. Harry: Yeah, I think one is the texture. You don't often get that but with the onion in there, the pickles in there, it's a crunchy burger. I had some reservations about but now that I taste it, now it all kind of makes sense. Joe: Fantastic, right? It's a big burger too, right? They're feeding you here. This burger has probably not evolved, but at least withstood the test of time since the '50s or '60s, however long the restaurant's been here, so you know they're doing something right. Yeah, it feels very traditional. It matches the vibe in here They've taken something and, you know, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. Yeah, and not only is theirs not broke, they have perfected it here, I think. And I wouldn't let you escape without having a slice of pie. You got room for pie? Harry: Of course I do. Joe: Yo! They've not skimped on the ice cream. Joe: Oh, my God. They put a la mode, as they call it. Did you just say &quot;a This specifically is boysenberry, not to be confused with poisonberry, which we will not be Boysenberry dropped in the Combination. European a loganberry from here I think, a dewberry, a Drew Barrymore. Put them all together Harry: In the UK, we might Like, apple pie is or, like, apple crumble But I do love the hot-and-cold when you put ice cream So, did you say, this is what? So, a la mode, when you is that just with ice cream? Joe: Uh, yeah. Harry: All right. We gotta try this. Joe: I'm in pie mode, sorry. Harry: Gotta try a delicious boysen. Mm. Come on. USA, baby. We got berries locked down. You wish this was over on your side. These berries are getting flagged They're never letting this into Harry: It would blow Joe: This hits the streets, That's delicious. I want to because most of that was How do you invent a berry? I guess just cross-pollinations What? You know, you, like, cross-pollinate. So you need bees. Yeah, or you can do it So you've got all those and then you're hoping, like, and then does what? It's how pollination works, right? The bee goes in for the nectar. While it's in there, all the Yeah. And then it flies to another But how is he doing four? Does Maybe, yeah. Did he train bees? You're acting like this is a normal thing. This doesn't make any sense. Rudolph, his name's Rudolph Boysen. He can do whatever he wants. I love it here. I am a sucker for, like, a slightly old-school historical place. Does feel like you've stepped The food, while it might be traditional, is very, very tasty. Fantastic. Can't fool the food at all. Burger, it's just about as you know, but done well. I hear that we have more spots to hit. Joe: We do. So let's hit it. Harry: Let's go. Why did we just park next to The thing about LA, for really important things and I got something Check this out. Behold: a plaque where the cheeseburger was invented. I have some notes. Harry: Sure, go on. As you've noticed, we're Harry: Yep. [cars passing by] Now, whoever this Lionel Sternberger is, and his name's Sternberger, first dude to put cheese Exactly 100 years. Harry: I think it's great that we have the invention of the cheeseburger, we have just highways with the biggest cars you've ever seen, and we have a credit union. I think this is like America just in one tiny, condensed location. What's going on, what the, with the burger right in Like, who laid this out like this? Not one graphic designer was just like, &quot;You know, we can just move it.&quot; What happened here? Graphic design is their passion, clearly. I really like it. I love that the guy who invented the cheeseburger It's a piece of history. We're at the source. Do you feel closer to the hamburger or the cheeseburger than ever? I kind of do. Harry: Yeah? I would've liked something a burger, like, fountain. Yeah? Think about how famous a cheeseburger is. One of the most iconic and it gets a tiny Yeah, I mean, they could maybe have gone a little bit more all-out for it, but I still appreciate it. If I worked here, I'd be like this is Anfield's sign. It should be shaped Let's get out of here. All right, this is Goldburger. We're located in Highland Park. They also have a location in Los Feliz. Been here several years. I could gush all day about One thing that I think we the burgers, 100% grass-fed beef. OK, nice. I will say that's because in the UK that's standard. I'm pretty sure all of But in the US, you know, I know your standards so I'm glad they're at So, our beef is, what, I guess. Like, food But yeah, if they have the then I'm glad they're doing it. OK, well they're doing grass-fed here. Great stuff. So, here they do LA-style smashburgers. Those are the thin patties, man. The guy really gets in there. He has this stamp thing that makes the edges nice and crispy. This might be my favorite possibly the entire world. We haven't even finished You've got to keep an open mind. Is LA, like, becoming the I feel like that's much They really are popping off here. I can't speak for the rest of the country, but smashburgers in LA, very popular. I feel like the ones tended to be a bit But on average, if you is it going to be smashed? I wouldn't say on average, they're always, they're so thin, paper -- you could write a note Back in 2018, when Allen was this won best burger in OK, so it's got some pedigree. Yeah. That's a great word. British buddy over here got pedigree. I mean, I could talk about all day, but why don't Going to get us two of the burgers, the double-patty version, I think a curly fries, and some drinks. Harry: Sounds great. Harry: Absolutely. Joe: All right, stay right here. All right. Harry: Let's go. Joe: Thank you so very Harry: These are beautiful! Joe: What'd I tell you about that paper? Look at that. Look at that. Joe: I know. I feel and just throw it like an airplane. Harry: Looks like a cheesesteak. Joe: Also they have a house to make their own kind I like that, mustard on a burger. Underrated, I would say. Joe: Oh, absolutely. I mean, I'm ready to go. Do you want to take a bite and then talk? I think we should get Joe: OK. Joe: Just by the virtue of smashing it, it has such a profound Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: I think it's because and with the cheese and it's just a different Mm-hmm. When you smash it around the side are almost caramelized. Yeah. There's a sort of almost which is incredible. It's a simple burger. Joe: Yeah. You can see in there, contrast to the other one we went to, it's just the meat, cheese, onions, and obviously some pickles Like, it really is just, you're Harry: Mm-hmm. Mm. Man. Joe: This sauce, this aioli I mean, that's the secret weapon. I don't know if they sell that. Actually, don't sell it. Harry: No. Keep that under lock and key. Harry: Yeah. It's so juicy. I thought to get it that keep the patty kind of thicker, but the amount of juice that's coming off these thin Joe: And the bun is Not falling apart. Still It's a fantastic burger. Harry: Yeah. You can tell every component of this burger and how it's going to work together. Well assembled and really delicious. Joe: Awesome, right? Harry: Mm-hmm. Mm. Man. Also, the price is nice out This burger, they have a combo here. One of these burgers, fries, Harry: Yeah. Harry: Yeah, that's That's a big portion, filling food, really, really tasty. I know New York's expensive. Everyone says New York's expensive. In my mind, I thought LA but so far I've been pleasantly surprised. I guess maybe it depends Yeah, I think Rodeo but you'd get it when you'd buy, like, a Prada jacket or something. Yeah, stop off at Erewhon and then grab a burger on the way home. Yeah, this at Erewhon It'd be impossible for every place we go to have specifically Already, you can see how this differs from the last place we were at. For me, today is all about just and although it isn't direct comparisons, you're getting kind of a types of burgers you Harry: Yeah. I think even toppings aside, like lettuce, tomato, onion, whatever, even just the way that and the cheese and the So it's hard to do a direct but so far I've been and I'm intrigued to see where else they can take How is this compared to This is really good. I think in terms of smashburgers, that's much more of a They've only made their way over to us in the last couple of years, I think. And they are really catching on, but we're still getting there. This, I would say one of if not the best smashburger I've ever had. Joe: Nice. So, suffice to say, we finishing this meal. No, I really want to. I'm having to physically restrain myself. But we have more burgers I know, I know. I'm trying to learn my Joe: All right, come on, let's go. Harry: So, I feel like so has been spent in cars. Is that representative of the experience? I think so. Now, the city does get a bit of a bad rap It is more car-centric than not. There's a train here. There's plenty of buses. I find that the city has so but getting from one neighborhood But once you get into a good neighborhood, you're doing lots of walking. Sure. To be fair, like, London's but even there, getting to another can be really annoying. I mean there's way worse where it's like, you gotta There's traffic pockets that are tough closer to the western part of the city, like in Hollywood and those areas. If you look at how the city's laid out, it's like, there's these huge mountains that you gotta go over to go There's, like, one or of course those are I don't know. It's not so bad. OK, dude, Oinkster, right? Good enough for Guy Fieri. Harry: I did, yeah. If it's good enough for him, Joe: I was about to say. All right, this place, the is all the awesome burgers they have. They have a burger here Remember the pastrami How could I forget the This place flies through They sell, from what I read online, 1,500 pounds of pastrami a week. Also, they got this, I'm ube shake. Ube? Yeah, they have, it's one Fantastic. Some of the menu items, like to the owner's Filipino heritage. Harry: Oh, cool. I like the name. With a name they're going to be pretty Joe: Absolutely. So, definitely want to Going to get another just Get, like, a baseline. And they do have a vegetarian burger that is sourced from So I thought, try one of Cool, sounds great. All right, you hungry? I've got, still got some The pacing-myself plan, kind of working. Yeah, it's only taken Yeah, no. We're figuring it out. Harry: I can see a soda Are free refills still a thing in America? Because that's not a Yeah, it's always been a thing. I didn't know it wasn't a thing That's quite nice. Joe: So you guys don't have that? No, we do not. If you get another cup of Do you ever find yourself &quot;Ah, I should have gotten a large&quot;? I usually just play it Joe: Gotcha. of exceptions. Nando's lets Wow, very nice. That's why Nando's is doing so well. Harry: Thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you. So, this is a Grimace shake. Did you have the Grimace shake? Harry: I did, yeah. So why don't you taste it Harry: OK, I will. It's so good. No way Grimace No, yeah, this is way better. The Grimace shake was, like, the most artificial berry flavor you've ever tasted in your life. There we go, thank you. Server: The cheeseburger. Joe: Thank you. Harry: That's a crazy-looking burger. Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah. All This is the one I was and also got us a regular, a cheeseburger. I mean, look at the size of it, right? Forgot to mention this Harry: Yep. You conveniently withheld Joe: Oops, and bacon. I have what I will say is an and I don't think I can Come on, I think you can do it. Come on. In one bite. I'm going to try. Oh, my God. Joe: This is, like, This is so great. The pastrami is incredible here, but with the bacon and the Well, ridiculous is the This is absurd! They've oh, my God, look at the Joe: Yeah. You better believe it. Geez. Meat waterfall. Joe: Mm. Harry: They've been generous So not only is there a but all of it is in quite a healthy dose. Like, look at the pastrami! There's, like, a solid I do think that while I've of this burger, I think this And it's just like, there's a lot going on with all the different flavors. Some of them are working together. I think the pastrami I think the addition taken that slightly over the edge for me. OK, I could see that. Would you agree? No, but I could see why That's fair. I also just think, like, when it's an ingredient quite difficult to eat without it just completely falling apart. And also, the pastrami is pretty juicy. It is, yeah. Very tasty. Again, everything in there is tasty. Just maybe scale it back slightly. I think we should try Joe: Yeah. It's slightly more approachable. I can actually probably fit I'm going to take the pickles out. You've got to get with the This actually -- This is so big. Harry: I'd say in terms of and ingredients, this the Pie 'n Burger one. Joe: Yeah, pretty close, yeah. Basically this is their version of that, with the Thousand Island, Joe: Mm. Dude. Right? Harry: Mm-hmm. It's fine to do a burger that's, like, a little bit out there, But I think to earn the right to do that, you have to be able to do the basics well. Fantastically put, yeah. And they definitely are That's really, really tasty. Yeah. Man. Oh, man. Time to that wash that down with one of these bad boys. Mm. Happy birthday, Grimace. Stop it. I'm going to town on this Harry: It is really good. to compare the flavor of ube I think there's obviously some like, vanilla in here, but the ube itself is giving quite an earthy, rich flavor. OK. The day's starting to hit me. That was really sudden. Yeah, yeah. I suddenly hit a wall, but I will power through it. So, Burgerlords, you can see right here, has a really great plant-based And since they sell it here, I thought, we're not visiting Burgerlords, but we can try this patty here I think it's really great. I go there a lot even a plant-based eater. But I like it a lot, and it's here, so thought you would try Absolutely, man. I'm open-minded. I like the collaboration between I'm seeing a lot of, A lot of what? Like, pulses. Pulses? Yeah. You don't have that? grains and pulses. Oh. Harry: Mm. How good is that? Mm. Mm. I love it. I think it's so good. So flavorful, right? Mm-hmm. That's really gone full kind of fake meat. Joe: Right, correct. they've just taken a bunch and kind of crammed them all together. It's a really, really tasty mix. I'm getting quite a lot Some lentils, some onions, some peppers. Joe: I love how you can get both of these under the same roof. Harry: Absolutely. Yeah, I think it's good that it's a space that, like you say, can cater to people who love meat and people who might not love meat or just want to reduce the but don't want to compromise on flavor. Yeah, still want something to taste good. Come to The Oinkster. Well, good news. We've got one more place to go, and we're going to head there right now. After that, we are done. Mm-hmm. All right, one more. Harry: OK, we can do one more. Joe: All right, let's go. Harry: So, whereabouts are we now, Joe? Joe: OK, this is Father's Office area of Los Angeles, California. Now, the distinction is there's three. There's another one in Culver City and I believe another one in Santa Monica. They have a fantastic That's why we're here. And also they got a beer selection. Harry: I knew you had an ulterior motive for bringing us here, man. We've eaten lots of burgers. I think we've earned a beer. And it's late enough to where my drinking isn't Yes. I mean, I could have started at 11. I could have cracked one But society is all like, &quot;You gotta wait till you're I'd speak on behalf of when I say we appreciate your restraint. Yeah, where's my plaque? &quot;On this spot, Joe Avella in the middle of the day.&quot; We'll get you a plaque next time. It's a plaque of me going like, &quot;Mm, no,&quot; and it's right We'll get you a plaque on a freeway next to a Wells Fargo or something. I like the vibe around downtown. It feels much more like a city. I feel like the other ones, we've been more in the sort areas of LA, whereas this one, yeah, we're kind of in the midst of things here. Actually, Father's Office drinking establishments They did it way before the and shout-out to them. Yeah, I'm not a smoker, Joe: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Were you able to go into when you could still smoke inside of them? When I was little. I but I used to occasionally go I smoked, and even I was This is a nightmare.&quot; Yeah. So, we're getting the burger here. The Office Burger is one of This thing is supposed to be incredible. I personally have not had it yet, but I've heard nothing but great things. It was named the best burger in America by both the &quot;Today&quot; show In America? Not just in LA? Joe: Right. And Esquire magazine. Remember magazines? I do, yeah. Those We used to print out the internet, and you had to carry it with you, yeah. What a dumb idea. According to Yelp, it's OK, so it's got the voice of the people backing this one, as That's right. Esquire, print publication. Of course. We're covering all the bases here. That's a lot of praise. High expectations. Joe: Yeah. Dry-aged I know you're a big onionhead. Harry: I am. Joe: Gruyere cheese, and this one's on a soft roll. Harry: OK, interesting. Harry: Sort of a slightly fancier burger, maybe, than we've had so far today? Get a load of your But you know what, the price isn't so bad. Harry: 21 bucks. So, not cheap. Harry: No. But upscale place. Yeah, I mean, I'll have to make my own call. But $21 for a burger of that pedigree, using the word pedigree again, I'm excited, and, yeah, I I think we should order. Joe: OK. we should take advantage of Joe: Yeah, what do you want to get? Harry: Some kind of lager, I think. OK, so we'll do two lagers Harry: Sounds great. Server: Famous first. Harry: Thank you very much. Server: And extra napkins. Enjoy. Joe: Fantastic. Thank you so very much. Harry: Few notes here. Joe: Yeah, I guess not. Harry: Not your everyday burger. It's more almost like a sort of hero roll. Joe: Yeah, it's shaped like a sandwich. Harry: Like, long sandwich bun. Toppings, different to some Joe: Definitely. Harry: They've not skimped on the arugula, or rocket, as we call it. You guys call it rocket. We do call it rocket. And I've been told by it's because it's kind of spicy. I don't know if that's the case. Yeah, arugula is spicy Our poor British palates Yeah. I love the look of the beef. They also, they asked us Joe: Yeah. First and only, yeah. Which is much more of and, I don't know, for attention to detail. I was going to say the same thing. Attention to quality. Harry: They're paying attention. Dude, this is so good. Harry: Mm-hmm. Oh, my God, I been eating burgers all day. I think I'm going to finish this. Mm-hmm. Joe: Maytag, which is a Also with the Gruyere. The I know you did point out but I would argue to say I The arugula paired with This burger is incredible! Harry: This beef is sensational. Joe: Now, I want to point out we had today that was And I am noticing that difference. I do like a flattop, obviously, you know, I'm all about that. But it really brings out the flavor, the fact that this was cooked on a grill. Harry: You can see the grill marks on it. I do love the sort of textural contrast and flavor contrast you The slightly charred bits. But they also, I think we That is perfectly medium rare. That's a perfect medium rare. If it wasn't for the show, just because I like living dangerously. I'd say this has by far the of any burger that we've had today. This thing's on another level. Yeah. They've taken the or a cheeseburger and elevated each element. Yeah, I don't know. I wouldn't Joe: It's funny, she mentioned Another thing that this is no substitutions. You can't put anything else in there. You can't add a little this and that. No ranch, right? Not doing it. And they get a little spicy Like, if you look at the bad reviews this place has gotten, &quot;Ugh, I wanted them to put this on instead of that, and Like, good, you should Eat the thing the experts made. Just knock it off. Right? They're the experts. Thank you. I put my trust in them, and Joe: They have delivered, absolutely. And I think it's interesting because the other burger they definitely have an of, like, get your food and go. You know? Not that there's anything wrong with that, but definitely places that you got it. Enjoy your meal and go. This feels more of a considered burger. And also this environment of, you know, they got a full bar have a drink, have a burger, have a couple more drinks, Spend your whole evening here. You're going to spend so what's the rush? I think this kind of almost of what a burger can be. Because obviously I think at its core, a burger is a bun on either and then you can kind of build from there. But even, like, the bun they've the meat almost tastes and in the way it's kind of cooked to order. The quality's really great. The rocket on there is very unusual. I'm not sure I've had rocket Arugula. Caramelized onions I've but, like, the cheese blend as well. I personally, I do just I still think that's kind of, like, the benchmark cheese for a burger. There are times when I've had burgers with other cheeses on them before, and I think it hasn't worked. I think with this one, It's like, clearly thought has gone into balancing the flavors. Joe: Yeah. Well, we've had four fantastic but we have to decide on our favorite. I'll just run it through real quick. We started with Pie 'n Been there for a long time. That burger has been how They've perfected the formula. It's big, juicy, fantastic meat. We loved the sauce, the After that, we made a They're doing smashburgers. Maybe the best smashburger in the city. I would say it is. If But almost like a 180. some onions, nice and slim. We went to town on that burger. Harry: Mm-hmm. After that, Oinkster. I mean, pastrami and meat and cheese and chili and bacon, come on. And also their standard A little bit closer to the where it just was a lot of But, I mean, so good, right? And of course, Father's Office. We just gushed about it for 10 minutes. Don't gotta recap. But if you had to pick only which would be your favorite Well, Joseph, coming into this, before we got here, Goldburger for me was clear. Wow, OK. Harry: I think that was I've ever had. And I think if anyone was coming to LA and wanted a good I think that is where I would send them. Goldburger's the spot, I agree. However, I think Father's at the last second and just because I don't think I've had anything like this before. It's so tasty. Every element is so finely It all works together so it might not be a but, damn, is it a tasty cheeseburger. It's a fantastic burger, and I'm going to go This is the best burger we've Goldburger was winning for me, but this thing's incredible. And it just barely beat it out. But just a little bit the cook of the meat, toppings, just so good. Yeah. I know it's a higher price point, but I definitely think it's worth it. Yeah, I think the value of all of these has actually impressed me quite a lot. Like, I thought LA would Actually, these have all been, I think, pretty reasonable for the quality and the flavor that you're getting. Yeah, would happily recommend but this is probably the No. 1 for me. Fantastic. All right, well. Harry: Cheers, man. Till the next episode.