The majestic, all powerful Maykr species from in the Doom timeline. Over millennia, encountered in the earthly realms. Yet, their would want Humanity to believe. Over many wars and the power of one human that ripped this angelic species were responsible but also a lot of the bad. Where did these angelic how does their story end? Here we explore the As Davoth, the first known Primaeval being, sprang from him. A heavenly realm that would locations until the end of time. This being had his first, the realm of Jekkad, and within it, were quick to learn about their home realm, name of Urdak to mean a Paradise or Heaven. This state. A realm always inverted to Jekkad. What In their paradise, the Maykr species thrived. At supreme leader that led her entire species. This and her creation was something of legend. To was created in a process called "The Singularity". is that The Singularity had several lesser Maykr to form a Khan. In doing so, the soul data of was combined to form the optimal leader. Destiny This process was not without its limitations. 10,000 Earth years, otherwise, there would be no to corruption, mental and physical decay. Under loyal advisers of Urdak. Below them were Maykr the bottom were Maykr Drones. Almost the children species were all led by the Khan Maykr. They like a hive mind in which the Khan Maykr sent These individuals did have their own thoughts and from their Khan. Davoth had created Urdak and the Jekkad was, in his view, superior to Urdak, within the citizens there with burning ambition, without cure them of their curse of mortality. He was this on his first creations. He loved them, and the creation of The Maykr, and their machine-like would find the secrets of immortality for him. got to work. In their search, they uncovered developed incredible technologies and machinery, and amazement. The Maykr themselves were also same mortal limitations as the denizens of Jekkad. and this allowed them to all work together to worked on the discovery of the cure of mortality, of time, they looked upon Davoth and Jekkad and The death of his creations had taken a toll on he would ultimately end up alone, and punished this cure. This behaviour scared the Maykr, and the new realms between Urdak and Jekkad, and The complex, almost machine-like matrix of the the ability to predict every variable of every the species surveyed these timelines and decided Although there were almost infinite possibilities, To protect them, the Maykr worked together and Davoths', they formed a seal around the realm of trapped there, and the realms outside were safe to be best for the rest of existence, the Maykr often visited the Earthly realms, and continued Their research into life and death had led them contained the memory, intelligence, will, and An object they could use to expand their not taken his betrayal lightly. The servant and he planned to do everything in his power his rage spread out into the entirety of Jekkad. Blood Swamps. The Palace of Groans grew over the of hope that Davoth loved so much twisted into he transferred into The Dark Lord. The Maykr at however, Davoth's anger did not fade over time, power against the walls of his prison, cracks the Maykr watched as demonic hordes flooded they decided that they had to act once again. re-entered Jekkad, and they fought against Davoth conflict, Davoth fought against the Maykr at quick motion, one of his opponents ripped out the Dark Lord's lifeless body tumbled to the bottom lifesphere of his creator in his hand. This sphere his hands, Davoth's power flowed into this Maykr elevated in every way. He became a God, and the to as The Father. At his side, a Seraph, Samur of Davoth. despite all of the pain he had caused, maker. Instead, The Father travelled to The Blood to store the sphere. This region did exist of a fragment of Urdak. To end this conflict his new powers and formed another Holy Seal. This or stepping foot on the Maykr's realm, and it Davoth had been sealed within Hell, but on a piece wait and plot within his sphere. His creatures, This was a completely new age for The Maykr. Not of Hell, but they also had a new leader. The a completely new level. The Father was a strict, and worlds for civilizations to grow and thrive. they developed interdimensional slipgate meet and guide them. By The Father's side were the in his research. Despite their importance, after The Father stripped the Seraph of their wings. In were responsible for the many marvels of the terrible energies of the very essence of life. quantum engines of creation stirred. These of existence to form the energy needed for to atone for their actions, The Father ordered The Luminarium. With a code that ordered they The Luminarium became a very important location in and their use. In the age of the first Khan Maykr, sphere was quickly taken to The Luminarium and the restore her. Returned to her physical form, and Maykr back into battle. The Maykr were a species were an awful experience. As they matured, and a process called Transfiguration. This effectively To combat this, the Maykr developed a new process resurrect. In essence, it expanded their lives that relied on the power of The Father to hold they were reborn. The ages continued to pass Singularity occurred every 10,000 human years, better with their new knowledge and customs. The process to continue. Within the Earthly realms, The population here did not fear these angelic what they had to say. The Argenta were amazed that their ethereal flesh. They moved through time Angels offered the Argenta peace, prosperity, and They also offered a place for their undying souls A place in the heavenly realm of Urdak. All the encountered countless species on their travels, they looked down on the mortals they discovered, than them. They deserved to be worshipped. The of them felt that they had been abandoned. As a Maykr. As offered, as many years passed, the civilization in return for their worship. The received the guidance of the Maykr, and were universe, the Argenta sought out new planets to could spread the word of the Maykr to. Of how The the Earthly realms and everything within creation. changed by The Maykr to improve the image of what time between realms, and was offered information discovered planets of any developments. As they Orator Rings as rewards. The more rings they had were. The Maykr Drones performed their duties Luminarium. As aeons passed, the Father worked on and had even attempted to create Gods to govern became frustrated with his own divine errors as expected them too. These errors were stored in the to slide into discordance, and he feared that if to steal his power, it would destroy all of the had done everything he could in his time, and to he decided to withdraw from the physical realm. to transform him into a lifesphere. Samur of and he placed The Father's lifesphere the Maykr travelled to The Luminarium to pray For many, many years, the Maykr guided the lesser presence across the realms. Angels beings that for worship. Within The Luminarium, The Father's He however heard the whispers of The Dark Lord The Temple of Souls, but his presence wandered the corrupted in order to influence them to do his barriers of Hell and asked that Samur Maykr take Samur again obeyed the orders of his master, and Souls. Here, he placed him next to Davoth. Only The disappearance of The Father's lifesphere were vulnerable to The Transfiguration once again, She had to reign until another Khan was born. of The Father. It appeared that The Maykr had no essentially become mortal. From those of the Maykr the Khan Maykr was informed that one constant that would threaten her rule. Someone that would The Father, her mortality, and her need to stay she heard the whispers of The Dark Lord from his the fallen god, the Khan Maykr leaned into these would help her discover this "Chosen One". The Purity in Taras Nabad. A Holy City, and capital of this machine would cleanse those who used it of that during its construction, she had followed the Mountains of Encremon to retrieve a piece of her orders, for a purification ritual, the Argenta only destroyed their physical bodies, but it also the time of King Novik on Argent D'Nur, a human and had no idea where he had come from. He rambled darkness, horror and death. The Khan Maykr resided her Angels to decipher this language so that learning his tongue, the Khan became intrigued by of power. Power that could save her species. The combat, and he later joined the strongest army had once fought for the old gods of this world, by them in combat. Wraith Energy. Although the they still stood guard of their old Gods. On formed out of nothing and demonic hordes flooded seal, and their waves of evil swelled from the and the City of Telorum fell under their numbers first of many planets invaded by Hell. And thus, had been true, and just as fast as the demons Night Sentinels. The Khan Maykr watched over this the Argentan people and cities. Yet, she cared a power source to sustain them, and Urdak. As the Daeg, three Argentan Priests, to study an energy the foul creatures from the malevolent realm, the however, it was formed as the result of the after their deaths. This was a promising avenue discovered that if Hell Essence and the power combined, it created an incredibly powerful energy the Khan Maykr was contacted by a Dark Lord of supply fresh souls into Hell on the battlefield, Hell to extract Hell essence from these new souls, Energy. This was the solution she had looked for Hell herself as a result of The Father's seal, them construct these nightmare locations for her. souls fell and arrived in the city of Nekravol. their souls were extracted and used to create form was twisted and sent back to Argent D'Nur to and sustained The Maykr and Urdak. They no longer had existed well past her 10,000-year limit and to Hell was strong, and her corruption increased. D'Nur were overwhelmed by demonic corruption. Sentinels to enter the Divinity Machine, still reached its Zenith, the Night Sentinels continued a new foe emerged from the fiery portals. power. From afar, Samur Maykr watched as these but even The Outlander could not take it down. also heard the whispers of The Dark Lord "The Khan The Dark Lord, Samur reached out to The Outlander reversed the polarity of The Divinity Machine was something new. This machine had destroyed polarity had been reversed, this human outlander of The Dark Lord that powered the machine. This The Doom Slayer, and with his new found ability, Dreadnaught. With the Temple of Souls, Davoth betrayed him, and over this long period of time, that would destroy them, but he still had some and felt that Davoth's manipulation, and the asked Samur to once again send him somewhere that transformed The Father's sphere into an artificial was to keep him safe from Davoth's minions. Then, The Doom Slayer's enhanced abilities allowed him that plagued Argent D'Nur. This angered permission to use the Divinity Machine, but he that less Argentan souls were sent to her for her saw the mortals that were massacred as a were mortal. They should be honoured that they In their fight against the demons of Hell, the and on this expedition, they came across one design. They had been used by the Maykr, and used by what they believed were their saviours. Sentinels called out the Khan Maykr and her kind Argenta. The Maykr, and Order of Daeg denied these between those who allied with The Maykr, and those fought against each other and used power supplied The Maykr, the Night Sentinel formed a plan. They to help them fight, and they also planned to sent up the Argent Energy to Urdak. This plan and they had one of the Argentan Priests the death of his son. With the promise to see his Wraith. The Night Sentinel were unaware of the and for their second phase of this plan, the Hell in order to tear down the soul spire. When all been scattered across Hell. Miles away from by the demons. As the years passed, large chunks Wraith that had been captured by the Maykr were the creation of Argent Energy. This was what The but at the cost of the mortals she and those With this continuous influx of Argent Energy, the a God-like leader. The Khan Maykr communicated been attacked by Hell, The Seraph remained and the drones waited within Urdak until they corruption of Hell and The Dark Lord. In her the flow of Wraith Energy suddenly stopped one Doom Slayer had survived her trick, and destroyed The Khan Maykr turned her sights to his homeworld, The Wraith, she would just take all of the souls Maykr, the Argentan Priests, now corrupted into of Earth for an invasion to begin. Not only would to survive, but it was also a personal attack Earth was overwhelmed by Hell's forces. Yet, the of The Doom Slayer. She watched as the human priests and stopped the invasion. Without them, she could finish off Earth and restore Urdak's Khan started a ritual to awaken the Icon of Sin. the traitorous Samur Maykr on his path, and this against her. As the ritual commenced, the Doom heart that The Khan Maykr had used to control the Icon. and it turned against her. The Khan Maykr fled, but the was a creature of Hell. Under her control, it hold over the creature had shattered, so too accessing this heavenly realm. To her luck, the but the Doom Slayer still resided in her realm. as her realm fell from grace. It had no power to trail, the Doom Slayer fought past the demons, he discovered her. The Doom Slayer had been The Chosen One prophesied to end her reign. He had The Dark Lord's revenge. Despite her power as brutal fight, The Doom Slayer proved himself to be the life sphere of the Khan Maykr ascended The fall of the Khan Maykr had left what remained the first time since their creation that they did them, and Urdak had fallen as a result of Hell's eventually kill The Dark Lord, and with it, every once again trapped within the twisted realm, but Urdak had once been. As for those of the Maykr remained on the planets that their species had and waited for any to enter, and the Maykr drones realms without harm. There were a few Maykr that quite possibly knew of future events currently unknown. Essentially, as a result and the Khan Maykr's corruption, the entire angelic beings that were depicted across the many may not even have a future. The Transfiguration now appeared to be a certainty for all living I know that the Doom community is pretty Heaven and Hell. I like it as a background latest Doom Games. The altered story of and that The Dark Lord, in a way, was a victim. and his Maykr's turned against him. I am hoping because that ending after the death of Davoth Slayer back into a Sarcophagus appeared to be of tell. That was everything I wanted to say really. Species in the Doom Series. If you enjoyed this, and even share it with another Half-Life fan. then also let me know in the comments and leave regardless of how you felt about it! Subscribe I would like to thank my amazing gold tier this video about a week early. Jonas, Lewis, Ruben Mendoza, Duke, Toadnut, AuronX, Azu, Arnis! Now, what did you think of this lore? What what would you like to see next? This is where our