[DRAMATIC MUSIC] [MELLOW MUSIC] [CHATTER] Welcome stranger. Howdy. What'll it be? We just got in some Beer. Haven't seen you around before. You settling or Riding through. I'm Bob Ford. That's my brother, Charlie. Another shot, uncle Hank? Don't you uncle Hank me, Mr. Younger, to you. That's the most famous That's the gun I used So that's the gun. Must have taken a lot of nerve in the back. Hey, Bob. Seen Steve Moore Not yet. But he ought to be Why don't you try I'm down to my last dollar. Why don't you plant it there. Maybe it'll grow. What do you play? Blackjack is the game I've Deal. Cut. Hey, son. Son. See that fella Yeah. I ain't never seen him before. Must be a stranger Yeah. Don't he remind you of nobody? He does look a mite familiar. Shall I hit you? Hit me. Hey, Pa. Never mind. Go and get Georgie, Hit me gentle. 20. 21. Enough. Pay 19. 19. The house pays. I don't like being stared at. Who's the old billy goat? That old billy goat happens Ever since I came to he doesn't speak to me. Stay? Stay. Seems to be my unlucky day. How long have you Too long. [CLEARS THROAT] Well, ain't no use in Guess, I'll ride out myself, How long are you About three minutes. Hey, what about your money? Thanks. He's a funny one. Acts like he has Whatever it is, it isn't me. [SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC] Pardon me, mister. When you send money to the In a canvas bag like this. Fill it. Look mister, don't try any Easy on the trigger. You have nothing to worry about. Maybe about someone So I'll take that bag before Hand it over. Keep your hands high. Stay there, till you [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Take it easy, Cap'n Andy. Come on out, and Hold him, Hank, while Oh, we don't need no Sheriff. You see, Andy, this here, he made me a bet, yes, sir. He bet he could come in here to and hold it up single handed. And by golly, he done it. I always win my bets, Yeah. Well, here's your money. I'm sorry if I caused Yeah. Sure, sure. I'm sorry Cap'n Andy, It was a dumb fool thing to do. And the least said Well, I'm not the How about that gun Gun? Oh, sure, sure. Well, I guess, I better before it closes. Come on, son. Since you've had I ought to charge you interest. [CHUCKLES] That's a good one. And Andy, any time just call on your uncle Hank. So long, Andy. I'll see you later. What's the idea You've held up a few Cap'n Andy Milburn soldiered together He was my company commander. And son, this here, is one One county, where How come? Everyone here born pure? You'll find out, how come. Get on your horse. Not without my gun. I give you an order. I don't take orders. What's the argument, Pappy? This here, friend, is or no argument. [PLEASANT MUSIC] Hey, Hank. Yeah. I can't get over it. The way that monkey was on him, all the time. Yeah. Yeah. Bring him along. Right. Come on. What happened, Georgie? Ask him if he still Hey, you got a pretty high Now you're here in one your nerve, not your brashness. So don't get too hard to handle. It ain't too late to turn bungled as it was. What'd I do wrong? You tell me. Well, if you'd ever you wouldn't have tried do the man. You got a point there. What else? Well, I ain't giving to foreigners. Well, then count me in Well, what do you say, boys? Come on, speak your piece. Sure, Pa, give him a try. Sure, Hank. Take him in. Now I'm in. What else? Plenty. Come on inside. I got an idea, son, for a long, long time. Besides a mistake to rob a bank single handed, Now, when Jesse he looked like a man that had not like a feller that Take off your hat. Here, put this on. Now, this, just try this on. Just to see how it fits. This is mighty fine. These are good enough They your working clothes. Here. Feller left him here It's all right though, he won't Jumping Jehoshaphat. For a moment there, I could Of course, you ain't exactly But with all his be took for the Jesse And son, when we went we didn't hardly need no guns. His name was enough. My name will be Jesse James can get famous, Jesse weren't just Yeah. Not because he was outlaw. But because he was a leader. He made our cause, his cause. Just like it says here in the-- in the book, &quot;the symbol And that's why, to his name was enough, and Just what are you driving at? That-- that coat, It fits all right. A little loose across the back. Well, you'll grow Because them's the to be wearing when Jesse and Ain't no one going to He's been dead for six months. Yeah. There's a heap of And with a gun in your hand, are going to give [SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC] Bop, Bop. I saw the boys riding tonight. And Jesse was with them again. You're always seeing things. Why don't you leave off that kid. Shut up. Let's give it up, Bob. Give up what? Saloon, everything. Let's get out of this where nobody knows who we are. What are you talking about? Why should we? I can't stand it any look at us, like You said when we shot We could open up this We still can. And we will. In a town where I don't care anymore. Look, you can have my I've got to get away. Forget it. We're not going to run Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning. What can I do for you? Favor, sir. I owe my friend, Hank, here, Would you mind Not a bit. You know, this would have made Yeah? How's that? Why, this is a very way before he was killed. Well, that's very interesting. Tell us about it. Well, he used to come like a prosperous cattle buyer. Yeah. Then he'd ask to have Go on. Then what did Jesse do? Then, he'd pull You know what to do with it. Yes, sir. I'll take that money, mister. You can enter that in his The bank can afford it. Give him a sack. Yes, sir. All right, Johnny. Now, anybody don't want to Oh, excuse me, honey. [GUNSHOTS] Jesse James. [OVERLAPPING SPEECH] Morning, Bob, Charlie. You're late, again, Sue. Am I? Probably because I on a new sign for your gun. You'll be needing one. Why? Haven't you heard? The East Kansas bank was robbed Another fake Jesse. There's been a half dozen, Yeah. Only this one hits You look like you need Have a drink on the house. No thanks. But I'll have some What's good, today? Well, baked ham, sir. And of course, your I'll take a plate of each. Oh, no, sir. You got to buy a drink. I was offered a So I'll take a Oh, no, sir. You-- you can't do that. No, sir. No lunch, no drink. No drink, no lunch. No. I'm hungry. Well, hearty appetite. You look hungry. Come on. Customer always wins Take over, Margie, will you? You left in somewhat of Yeah, I had to take before the bank closed. Where have you been? Traveling. What's your line? Hardware. Seem to be doing On my terms, I can't lose. What are your terms? Spot cash. Now you know all about me. What about you? What do you want to know? My name? Susan Ellen Younger. Where I live? With the widow Banks. I suppose you know my night off. Mm-hmm. Tonight. Guess you think you Mm-hmm. Jackson City, to the opera Oh, that's silly. Mr. Ford couldn't Here you are. More than Mr. Ford can give you. You can say that again. Well, it's settled. Now, go tell Mr. Ford, I'll tell him. What's your name? Johnny, Johnny Callum. Hello, Johnny. Be right back. So, I'm warning you. Keep away from that gal of mine. You mean, what Your intentions? [CHUCKLES] Your is like the same as a cottontail snake. Though it ain't her It's you-- you and our business. We're riding on When? Now. Well, why didn't you tell me? New man always gets told last. Come on. [KNOCKING] We're not yet open for business. I'm the bank examiner. Indeed? You gentlemen never announce I wish Mr-- James, Jesse James. I wish to Mr. James, you would-- Jesse James? [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Can I join you? [GUNSHOTS] [DRAMATIC MUSIC] [GUNSHOTS] All the trumped up frauds. Jesse James is dead. The man himself means What's important that have produced him, and of outlaws like him. It was the war the Northerners. I know, I know. First the spoilation of And then the tyranny But those days have Hello, Rufe. I want you to meet Commissioner Mr. Dakin, head of the How do you do? How do you do Mr. Dakin? I have a message for you. For me? My department has taken official We feel that the people should have some protection and their followers. Now if you can't the government will. My men are doing Except to break up That's the trouble. They break up themselves. After every raid, each And every suspect to prove he wasn't at the crime. Do you have a suspect for No. That's what I mean. The career of Jesse and you can't find The law must and I advise you to clean up your will. Good day, gentlemen. How long did it take the law Howard? 18 years, if we got him. Has it occurred to you, a question whether Jesse And has it occurred to you that be alive or dead, politically? Think of it. $10,000 of paid out for a dead outlaw. And now he's back doing Are you going to let that be the into eternal oblivion? You'll make me of the whole state of [PLEASANT MUSIC] Why can't those Missourians folks in Tennessee? Well, my answer would be that Tennessee doesn't make men criminals. What do you know about I say, men are And in Missouri, Now, how can you say come from respectable family? That proves my point. Did, either, Jesse Frank, ever take after I've heard that Frank did. Frank James was tarred as his brother, Jesse. Two bad apples on But he reformed. He reformed. You just don't Here's your torn shirt. Good as new. Oh, thank you kindly, ma'am. I'd get me a woman of my like you, Ms. Woodson. Oh, Ben. I could have got a bet He's been seen riding What's he look like? Well, he's older than and chews tobacco, finishes Oh, Ms. Woodson, about Would you like some Of course, I would. I'll send the when they get home from school. Frank? You heard what they're You promised years ago when That I'd use it only That's what I intend to do. Defend myself, and Where are you going? How long will-- It's like the old days Ann, I'll make my peace The time will come to keep a horse saddle behind Mr. Galway, these claim they shot Jesse James, What do you mean, we claim? I should know. And I'm telling you, Don't tell me the man's dead, keep exploding in my We killed Jesse Yes, you swore to it. He was identified. By yourselves. I'll refresh your memory City Marshal Craig, &quot;Do Bob Ford, &quot;It is Jesse James.&quot; City Marshal Craig, &quot;Do you Bob Ford, &quot;Yes. We have killed him Charles Ford, &quot;We feel proud over the whole world.&quot; And we're still proud. Then listen to how the Coroner, &quot;What is your name?&quot; Her answer, Mrs. Howard. Coroner, &quot;Who is this man?&quot; Her answer, my Coroner, &quot;Why did Her answer, I don't know. At this point, the widow And why shouldn't she weep, the murdered in the very He was no stranger. And he sure wasn't harmless. You've heard the the one who knew him best. And upon this evidence, Tom Howard was wantonly could collect blood money The real Jesse James, the is the one robbing the We'll give you just 30 dead or alive. Failing in that, you'll and hanged for the murder Good day and good luck. [PIANO PLAYING] Now look, Marge, if we're we want to do something So when you sing the song, sing huh? Don't you talk that way to me. I don't rightly know Give me a chord and A. (SINGING) Gone are the days. Oh, no, Marge. No, no. Something fresh, (SINGING) Oh, the Camptown lady Camptown race is five mile long. Oh, the doo da day. Oh, the do da day. Oh, the do da day. I'll bet my money somebody bet on the bay. Thank you. Thank you, ladies and gentleman. Thank you, very kindly. Thank you, one and all. We now do an anchor. (SINGING) Oh, bell, Oh, bell, don't you tell. Keep your big fat Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Haven't you anything Yes, sir. Well, do it. Yes, sir. What's eating you two? You must have had a hard Only 10 of them. Sue, we want to get thought maybe you could help us. How? I'll get around to that. Say, why don't you go back to After working for you, Fords? That's a laugh. Hank younger couldn't I'd have to have a Pa may not be home. He hasn't been around lately. Yeah, I know. Riding, I hear, with What do you know about him, Sue? I don't have to know Well, it's only, since there's some doubt that How do you know he I always heard, a he's got a bullet in his head. And you know, I always was buried in an empty coffin. Whoever he is, he's making So all we want to do friendly like, have a With his back towards you? I think I've heard just I just wanted to make sure we Because the price will be $500, I think he's worth it, Bob. It's a deal. [SOFT MUSIC] Howdy. Uncle Hank around? Maybe in the house. That's a fine looking The one you're on could travel. What do you want with Hank? I'm kinfolk. You don't look like kinfolk. Frank. Frank. You old polecat. Hell, I ain't seen Howdy. How's Ann and the kids? They were fine, when I left. Good. Good. Ann's. Been pretty worried Worried? Oh. Aw shucks. What-- what's she got I think why, Hank. I hear Jesse's riding again. Yeah, well, why, didn't figure It ain't me, it's I want you to warn the man that he's got to stop. Why don't you say that Sure I'm using his name. When I get through I'll make it more There's nothing your brother's I'll do the same jobs And where he took a licking, And there's nothing [GASPS] Well, Frank, you wasn't you, huh? I'll take them guns, son. But there's one thing Jesse could always outshoot you. I'll take yours too, Frank. Thank you. Now you two spurless roosters Gun or no gun, Hank, I from Tennessee, Who asked you to back down? I started this Jesse James Maybe he can bluff Son, me and the boys is through. If you want to go on you ain't going to I don't need his brother's name. I'll make my own. And I'll make it bigger So you still want to outdo him? What of it? We've agreed to what Here, Frank. Remember those who live by the So long, Frank. Fret not thyself What are you spouting? That's in the good book, son. I don't reckon you But the gist of it is, yourself killed with a bullet, Here. [SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC] What you doing in that closet? It's a good thing I got my What you looking for in there? I'm looking for some You know darn well, what So the Ford boys sent you out did they? Hank, don't. How much money did he Stop, you're hurting me. Come on, answer me. What's the new price Answer me. $500. Oh, so you'd sell out a man's Who's selling a man's life? All I want is a The Ford boys are going to get Well, you can forget all because there ain't going He done give me his Well, that should make Yeah, and just to I'm going to ride in after a I'm sick of this Has got to come to Looks like you're a mite sorry. Well, yes, as a matter of I'd been looking forward to Ford brothers. That'd give him a Who is this man riding That, my girl, is and for you to find out. You're an old fool. How, now, Sue Ellen, to speak to your poor old pappy? After all, all I've done was [DOOR SLAM] [CHUCKLES] (SINGING) Many were the wild Many were the blithe I dream of Jeanie with Floating like a vapor [APPLAUSE] Thank you, folks. Thank you, folks. Now a little ditty (SINGING) Hello, hello, hello. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye. [LAUGHTER] Well, cheer up, boys. It's all fixed. Good. What's the setup? He won't bother you anymore. He's quit riding. The Jesse James you What do you mean he's quit? We got to find him? What's the difference? As long as he's quit riding, We're not the only Seeing as how you he must be at your Is he? The answer to that Sure. But tell me. Well, I can't promise you But where a certain outfit you ought to be able to Better get your games going now. Good evening, gentlemen. A very good evening to you. How is your very good You're mighty friendly I just come to tell you not for anybody. That won't be necessary. [CHATTER] Jesse. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] I hear, you're looking for me. [GUNSHOT] Hold on, Gus. Sorry, Marshal. It was self-defense. I know that, I saw But why did they jump you? Guess, Charlie mistook Must have had that Yes, or a hangover. Everybody knows that And the Fords, they While you're talking, After a shooting, it's Doctoring is more important. Come on. There you are. Too tight? No. It's only a flesh wound. Be as good as new in no time. I'll make you a tonic. Thanks. You know, this is the haven't walked out on you. How did you happen to take You heard what I told the How did you know I heard you tell, Hank. You heard all I told him? Listen, I wouldn't sell you out. I didn't know you were the Believe me I-- I believe you. Since you kept the [DRAMATIC MUSIC] You wanted to see me, Elmer? If you weren't my I'd put a smart man in your job. Well, now what have I done? The impossible. The miraculous. A man legally dead, comes The reporters are outside. What am I going to I don't know. It's fantastic. Say, that's it, a the administration. That won't interest them. They'll want to know what Could we offer another reward? For a Jesse James, We've spent too much already, for the for those proclamations Hey, wait a minute. We could send those And have our offer of moral cowardice. Remember the criticism we got with Jesse. When it comes to I've got the height Send out those handbills. And if we get them both, Oh. That one. Pretty, huh? Oh. An excellent But then, so are in what I call my economy size. Did I ask you what Oh, isn't that lovely? Lovely. You like that? Oh, Johnny, it's beautiful. Give her that one. Aren't they gorgeous? Look at them. Like those? Give her the bracelet. And the next one. Oh. And the next one. How much do I owe you? $349. Oh. 349 out of 400. Johnny. 349, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 400. You gave me too much change. Well, thank you, Johnny. Well, There goes an honest man. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Gave me his word to Now my position is more I ought to hunt him down and-- Frank. That's not like the You're talking like If I am, who's to blame? Who's keeping me with the law, like we planned? Ann, I can't allow our lives to determined to outdo Jesse. [KNOCKING] Who's there? Sheriff of Moore County, ma'am. Just a minute, Sheriff. Yes, ma'am. Well, good morning, Good morning. Is your husband home? He planned to cut some It'd be a hard job to find him. Well, you should be able Ah, where was he born? Kentucky. Kentucky. Age? 42. 42. Military service? Confederate cavalry. Mm-hmm. You fought in the war, Yes. For the Union. What has he been doing Farming. Mm-hmm. He ever been in jail? You know his reputation. Well, now that ain't hardly What I want to know is of a crime or a felony? On my word of honor, no. Well, thanks Mrs. Woodson. That's all. Tell your husband, that he's been Thank you, again, ma'am. I can't let you go I've got to find that man. No. I'm not going to spend the rest You're not going to kill I'm not going to Ann, I'll never know So we can live honestly I try to be a law but it seems that's not enough. What more can a man do Honey, what have I Oh, nothing. Only closed down the Ford's make me come back who hates the sight of me. We're going to be married. We'll have a home of our own. And how are you going to pay So that's what's eating you. Well, don't you fret your pretty Why, pretty soon, honey, it'll I'd clean out every for one kiss from your lips. If you're more interested in a Isn't an auction, it's Listen to this, &quot;Whoever shall James to the proper is hereby guaranteed for previous crimes.&quot; Wow. Looks like I'm as That's the kind of thing that for shooting Jesse in the back. So you best pay heed to it. Son, you're between And if one don't get So now is the time to quit Yeah, but I'll be needing a Unless you believe You keep your fool Son, a smart fox don't is full of hound dogs. It's the time a smart fox, She's right. Maybe now would be the right and hit it hard. Don't get too brash. I tell you now more than ever This is the time when they least expect you. Cash in while you can. Don't pay her no mind. Pardon me, both of you. Well, if that's all Sue, wait a minute. How long are you going to the whip over you? No man ever told Jesse And you think you're bigger. Now, Sue. (SARCASTICALLY) Oh, now's the and hit it hard, providing All you ever do is back down. Well, that ain't fair. My arm-- Oh, your arm's been You're afraid of Frank James. Don't say that name again. So the truth hurts, doesn't it. Why you little-- Who called you boys Well, come on, Tell me. Who called the boys together? I did. Yeah? Well, you can send I give my word, the Maybe you take orders from And when I give my So do I. I told Frank, I'd and do it better. Why don't you lay I still say, we're riding. Anyone dispute me? Have you gone simple I think Pa's right, Johnny. You ought to hold up here [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Are you all right, son? I'm fine, Pa. Ain't the first You made me proud of you, But you know, the crazy coot, Now he won't get another chance. As far as I'm concerned, he can No. No. Quitting now ain't I promised Frank and we got to stick Ain't nothing we can do, Pa. I don't know. I don't know. There might be. Some day he's going to bite And when he does, (SINGING) Crying. Free grace and dying love. Free grace and dying love. Free grace and dying love He who lives by the sword Why did I think of that when I tried to warn him. I feel as if it's a What sort of person is this man? Conceited fool. Determined to outdo Bragged, he'd do the same things and do them better. If only that were a fixed idea. If only I could be sure. Here. This is what gave me the He who lives by the sword, And the James Gang, which until the bank robbery fell by the sword at Westfield. If he is doing the they hit the bank And if he does, he'll of Jesse's downfall. And I'll know Hurry it up, Hank. You said you wanted a full Just put in the Keep the small change for seed. Thank you, sir. Hand over your wallet, banker. What say? I said, hand over your wallet? Huh? For the last time, What's he talking about, Walter? Hey, Mr. Darby can't [GUNSHOT] You fool. You stupid, clumsy, Come on. Don't move, nobody. Hold it. It'll soon be over. [GUNSHOTS] [INTENSE MUSIC] [SOFT MUSIC] How did it go? What did you get? Oh. Johnny, what's the take? Wrong with that. Go on, tell her, Johnny. I shot the banker. So what? They're after us. On tired horses. By sundown, we'll be miles We'll be safe at home tonight. Home? You'll never be safe Johnny, here, shot our when he killed that They know we done it. His kinfolks will hunt us Well, I hope you're happy now. You outdone Jesse James. And I'll keep on doing it. I'll make the biggest The big haul we've all Where? The bank at Westfield, At harvest time, there's That's why Jesse And failed. Lost most of our best, I was there. I seen Jesse take that licking. And because he did, nobody to be robbed again. You want to hit that because you think or because Jesse And do you want to keep on up with us? Are you sure there's 100,000 According to the Why? I was just thinking. What about? Us? Mostly. Go on, tell me. I will, when we [PLEASANT MUSIC] Pardon me. You the Sheriff? No sir. And this ain't the a branch office. I'm Rigby, in charge. I've come here to warn you. Come in, and talk Mr? Woodson, Ben Woodson. I've come all the to give you a warning. That's a mighty long way off. Must be important. Jesse James is going to raid Haven't you got your dates Jesse James did raid Another thing, he's There's a bogus Jesse doing the Westfield is next on his list. You wouldn't say that I would, and I do. Axel? Aye, sir. Go and get Dr. Hallstrom Tell the bartender, I All right, sir. One of our most from my point of view. When he goes on a drunk, I I doubt you think But to understand need to understand the Well, it's evident from what that the man who calls has become an egomaniac, of a fixed idea. Now I know, that you didn't but I must say, that what you Now we know very little But I have no doubt The pattern that he's following What if it doesn't? Doc, if we get the and no Jesse James look like a couple Whereas, if the town isn't arrive, only one of us Well, it won't be me. I'm going to start forming I want to thank you for Most men would have said, I was Well, most people your motives, Mr. James. We'd better help Rigby Tell them about it, Doc. Men, I've got some news for you. You all remember the last a visit. You think they Well, if they do, we've Spread the news. Sure, doc. Watch the roads. Take the north side, Rob. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] What's he waiting for? Let's get started, and It was anything like the it won't take us long Feel that way about it, Pa. What you riding for? I told you, son. Then maybe it's just to You're all I got now. That gal in there, she Maybe might be a little Could a man just find it. And, Johnny, when you come Ahead of the others? What for? I'll have two fresh horses, Sue, I can't. No split this time, Johnny. $100,000, for you and me. Don't ask me to do that, Sue. You want to marry me, don't you? Yes, but-- You can take me to Chicago. There's a real town, More good times. More excitement. We'll live, Johnny. We'll live. Just you and me, together. Just you and me. Johnny. Oh, just a minute, boys. I forgot my bandanna. Even now, you could stop him. Me? Stop him? Yes, you and only you. Look who's talking? You started this whole thing. You talked him into it. Now you're afraid What is it you want? Just say the one word Money? You can have all I got. Chicken feed. Small change for beer. I'm playing for champagne, Pa. Champagne? From a boy that's for you, inside of an hour? He's willing to He knows what he wants. And he knows what I want. You don't mean that. Not even you can be What's the matter, Hank? You're trying to dog the job? Sue, here, she-- she might Johnny. Everything's been said. [MUSIC PLAYING] Sheriff. The whole town is off Well, something Should I ring a bell The whole town's Rigby's folly, they call it. Why don't you go back to Why don't you A week's gone by-- He was right. There's one man How do you figure he's right? Dr. Hallstrom said so. Two men, out of a whole town. You got visible Why ask me that? I mean, I could use another They work out of town. All right, Sheriff. I came here to save Westfield [SOMBER MUSIC] Hello, Ben. Come on up, and Jesse James is coming. Hey, Jesse James is coming. Hey, Jesse James is coming. Jesse James is coming. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] Jesse James is coming. [GUNSHOTS] Pa. Lem. Pa. Don't think I'm Oh, shucks. You'll be all right. Yeah. I'll help you up, come on. Johnny, Johnny, What are you waiting Just a moment to You can stay. I'm getting out of here. And I'm getting out of Hold it, Johnny. I got a little A long time ago, I had an idea. I wanted to ride Maybe it was because I it was because I wanted to even maybe it's because I was If you've got something I'm getting there. I started something I couldn't But you are a mad dog. Just some mad dog. Pa. Johnny. Hank, shot me. I ain't going to Ain't nobody going to kill me. Nobody. You rest a while, Johnny. And then we'll be on our Johnny, where's the money? Sue. Johnny, the money? Where is it? You didn't get it. That's what. You didn't get it, Johnny. I couldn't. It's Frank James. Sue. I got it. I held him for you. I've earned my amnesty. You're my witness, Frank. [GUNSHOT] [MUSIC PLAYING]