In late 2012, two sophomore students, Duncan project focused on programming. It eventually culminated in the action platformer What's more, for the sequel, they transformed fully rendered 3D characters and environments, three in-house developers. Risk of Rain's Development Journey began Paul aimed to combine different genres to gameplay mechanics in a single package. The duo have been close friends since third games together. Once they decided to create their own platformer, elements, including high replayability, permadeath, In the game's initial prototype, players defended and straying further from the ship would increase However, Duncan and Paul quickly realized leave the safety of their ship and explore That's when they came up with the &quot;time = difficulty&quot; Simply explained, the longer you stay alive up. Players were now required to reach and activate generated level, all while upgrading their formidable enemies as time went on. While fine-tuning the difficulty, the two scale in power relative to the player. Originally, the faster you dispatched enemies, Essentially, as players collected more items enemies, those very same foes became tougher However, after some time, Duncan and Paul gameplay experience. "From a design point, it took out your highs interesting about the game: when you feel Or if you feel absolutely overwhelmed. If we did the scaling with you correctly, Consequently, they chose to lean more heavily monsters grow stronger the longer you survive. This created a more impactful sense of urgency often--something Duncan and Paul really wanted They made an exception for bosses though, to a specific percentage of the player's health. According to Paul, this was implemented to and scary, regardless of the player's strength. Although it's clearly indicated that the difficulty more happening behind the scenes than players The difficulty actually increases every single To get a bit more technical, for each minute of the monsters. This power value scales their health semi-exponentially These values are also influenced by the player's to prevent late-game scenarios where the player enemies in a single hit. This system has the benefit of creating a preserving the dynamic highs and lows during Players might power up quickly by gaining to wipe out enemies with ease. However, the enemies will eventually catch than you anticipate. Duncan and Paul admit that it's possible to of items--like becoming invincible or being moving--but they consider this part of the Risk of Rain's pixel art style was chosen Not only did it enable the duo to rapidly artistic and technological freedom to design chunk of the screen--a key element Duncan Moreover, the undemanding art assets afforded special effects aimed at keeping players visually Despite using pixel art, the duo did eventually the enemy spawn rate. See, enemies not only grow stronger the longer to spawn more frequently. This process is controlled by an AI. Here's how it works: each second, the AI is The number of points it receives every second Every two to 15 seconds, these points are For instance, a lemurian costs five points, Depending on its point balance, the AI may This led to an issue where GameMaker, the limitations and performance significantly Fortunately, Duncan and Paul quickly found to place at least five monsters of the same one powered-up version of that monster. This approach not only solved the problem, Before we move on, I'd like to talk about Raycon is disrupting the audio industry by half the price of other premium audio brands. Raycon's earbuds seamless bluetooth pairing, hours of battery provided by the charging them ideal for everyday use. They come in a range of fun colors and patterns, you always have a comfortable noise-isolating Use the tap functions to toggle between three Isolation mode and Awareness mode. I use the noise isolation mode all the time that much more enjoyable. The awareness mode on the other hand is great summer walks. Furthermore, Raycon's 30-day free-return out before fully committing to your purchase. Click the link in the description or go to off your Raycon purchase today! Raycon, Power Up Your Everyday. Now back to the video. Growing up, Duncan and Paul mostly played mouse. So it's no surprise that they adopted a similar for Risk of Rain. They aimed to provide a control scheme that play, whether you're a seasoned gamer or a For those who prefer not to use keyboard controls, well. Before each run, the player chooses a character Ensuring each class was unique, yet maintained The majority of the characters were designed each character would most probably excel at. For instance, they envisioned HAN-D as a giant enemies using only its fists. They realized this concept by providing HAN-D to seek out monsters and steal their health Furthermore, it was important that each character player's skill. The Bandit for example can chain many different While the game's title might not immediately Paul explained to Polygon they had good reasons &quot;Starting on, we wanted something that was us. Eventually, we were set on the idea of idioms. After we looked through idioms meaning 'chance,' was the coolest sounding one. We felt this name fit the game; there is a happening.&quot; As you can tell from all the unused sprites, were either cut or reworked to better fit One intriguing set of items that didn't make Garb, and the Hero's Boots. These items are a nod to the Legend of Zelda According to the developers, if a player had effect would have been activated. However, they never reached this point in items. By April 2013, after about five months of 100 dollars, the game was more or less complete, polish required. That being said, it was still missing a soundtrack After reaching out to several composers via They typed in &quot;best music composer top 10&quot; This piece, used in an indie game called Droidscape: Duncan and Paul to email Chris. To their delight, he simply replied, &quot;Hey, Let's do it.&quot; Naturally, Chris wouldn't be working for free. Besides needing a soundtrack, the team also which meant purchasing either GameMaker Studio Therefore, to fully realize their vision for more than the initial 100 dollars. As full-time college students, they didn't This prompted them to set up a Kickstarter Games, with a funding goal of 7,000 dollars--enough and polishing the game. Just four days later, the project was fully stretch goals. In total, the Kickstarter campaign raised support of 1690 backers. It allowed the small team to add extra features classes. The Kickstarter campaign itself attracted So much so, that indie game developer and of Rain. Duncan and Paul accepted their proposal. Chucklefish not only provided them with a the team with Matthew Griffin, a developer Matthew lent his expertise to help Hopoo Games Although the game already supported local players that the addition of multiplayer would the best possible single-player experience. While the two developers were busy making rein to craft the soundtrack as he saw fit. Paul and Duncan fully trusted Chris' expertise Once Chris had compiled a collection of songs, who then determined where each track would In November 2013, less than a year after development Garnering positive reviews, a devoted fanbase servers busy. The game even became an award-winning success, 'Best Student Game' award at the 2014 Independent Development on Risk of Rain 2 began around Earlier that year, Hopoo Games had developed called Deadbolt, yet Risk of Rain continued partially due to its debut on PlayStation By this time, Duncan and Paul had graduated full-time to game development. They also welcomed Jeffrey Hunt to the team, for the sequel's development. Although Risk of Rain 2 would eventually transform it didn't initially start off this way. The team's primary objective was to do something innovative. The original twist was that players would Additionally, Duncan was particularly enthusiastic items on characters, an idea inspired by fan The initial prototype started off with 2D However, according to Duncan, visually representing As a solution, they transitioned to 2.5D graphics. In order to achieve quality results in this 3D models for the items and characters and When they completed a new prototype, they 3D at this point. Should we just give it a shot?". The transition from 2D to 3D took place over Once they had familiarized themselves with capabilities, things escalated quickly. That's when the real work started. In an interview with PC Gamer, Paul mentioned from Risk of Rain and Deadbolt didn't exactly Consequently, they had to relearn a lot before For example, Duncan, who had only utilized had never done any 3D modeling before Risk It was a significant leap for him to learn modeling, and getting accustomed to the sequel's Even as they became more familiar with this to be far more time-consuming compared to "The cost of time per asset has gone up With our previous projects, we did a lot of We would do a very rapid prototype and then But in 3D it doesn't work that way. A lot of times, if you want to change step You have to start over from scratch. You can't refine and iterate in the same way." During the early stages of development, the be fun to play in 3D if they used the same gameplay objectives from the original game? As a result, the first prototype incorporated familiar monsters, the Lemurian and the Golem. However, they soon realized that they couldn't elements into the sequel. Every class and monster taken from the original For instance, melee monsters were considerably extra dimension for strategizing their approach. As a response, the Golem, which was previously with a laser so it can also attack from a Similarly, the Lemurian was given the ability According to Duncan, the shift to a 3D environment Being able to see far into the distance, as screen, drastically altered the effectiveness In the original 2D game, players were restricted of them, but the transition to 3D now allowed Furthermore, some abilities became more challenging Commando's FMJ, which fires in a straight In 2D, it was far easier to hit multiple enemies to align themselves along a line of monsters This change introduces a greater level of experience when executed properly. This early prototype confirmed that Duncan their confidence. That said, the duo admitted they were very They recognized the need to skillfully blend the dramatic shift in visuals and gameplay. Despite this, they were uncertain about how changes. About six months into development, in May of Rain 2 on their development blog. It's important to note that by this point, Chucklefish, meaning marketing and other business-related This is partially why Risk of Rain 2 was announced Without the luxury of a dedicated person or to advertise as soon as possible, alerting By December 2017, the studio had completed At this point, the developers were considering Given that the stages were going to be larger sure if permutations would be necessary. The team experimented with this for a while, generated maps in 3D proved too demanding Instead, they focused on providing as much multiple regions with plenty of secrets to When it came to the story and lore, the developers game and expand upon it. Duncan and Paul favor creating games without is why both Risk of Rain games convey their Although gameplay always comes first, the to immerse themselves in the game's world Even though online co-op was more of an afterthought easily accessible online multiplayer experience This priority was established even before The feedback from the first game made it clear for a more streamlined multiplayer experience, With much more experience under their belt with players online as easy as pressing a Creating exciting item variety has always design of each item starts with a specific choice whenever possible. Take the Monster Tooth, for instance. While it might not be the most thrilling item players in the fight by rewarding them with The team at Hopoo Games could have simply for every monster defeated. Instead, they designed it so that as players begin to spawn around the map. This gives players the choice of when to heal As mentioned earlier, a primary motivation collected items on the player character. This decision was made not only for aesthetic progression in the first game. By ensuring that players could visually perceive their character during gameplay, they hoped The transition to a fully 3D environment required Rain be redesigned. However, this shift also unlocked a vast array uses. For example, one of the team's favorite new a specific enemy for a massive lightning strike, 3D. When introducing new characters and items impact on both singleplayer and multiplayer, around. For this reason, they implemented a system the number of online players to ensure a challenging Hopoo Games knew the development of the 3D the original, but they didn't want to deprive much longer. Therefore, in late 2018, the team started in Early Access. After extensively studying other successful key goals. First, they aimed to cultivate a robust community during and after the game's Early Access period. Second, they strived to maintain a steady drought by releasing regular patches and substantial Lastly, they wanted to gather as much feedback 2 would align with players' expectations. The Early Access version launched in March In an effort to entice players to experience studio initiated a &quot;buy one, get one free&quot; Selling one million copies within a single Community feedback played a pivotal role in stages. Item balancing, in particular, was a frequent With so many item variations and tiers, there Moreover, the team strived to prioritize player as though success relied solely on finding "One of the more major ways we are trying is with the character system. Even if the player doesn't get a specific they can extend their run by playing smart in the game to help them bridge that gap." Once again, Chris collaborated with Hopoo He wanted to make it feel like a continuation repetitive. The tracks are heavily influenced by progressive inspiration from King Crimson, Pink Floyd, Naturally, he incorporated his own influences, Chris describes the soundtrack as standing Risk of Rain soundtrack, with many motifs, over. The soundtrack was composed parallel to the Duncan and Paul let Chris play a portion of to understand how it works and how it's The "time = difficulty" system is directly to no exception, start more relaxed and build Moreover, the use of multiple voices, intricate style, mirrors the busy gameplay. The shift to Early Access directly impacted For instance, they needed a sufficient number meant using unfinished music. This was a difficult decision for Chris, as to tracks that would undergo substantial changes get upset. Which is exactly what happened. Despite player feedback, Chris is extremely in Risk of Rain 2 to be better mixed, a result Similar to how Chucklefish reached out during Publishing partnered with Hopoo Games during ports for the PS4, Xbox One, and Nintendo On August 11th, 2020, nearly four years after Access and Hopoo released version 1.0 for The response from critics and gamers was even Reviewers described the game as immensely Some even hailed it as one of the greatest As a result, Risk of Rain 2 saw concurrent games such as The Binding of Isaac, Loop Hero, What's more, as of March 2021, over four An expansion pack called 'Survivors Of The new player characters, enemies, bosses, items, However, in November 2022, the announcement been sold to Gearbox caused concern among 2 and potential sequels. Duncan and Paul explained that while they exploring new creative opportunities, which as Risk of Rain. However, they expressed their desire to continue new content. After three years of collaborating with Gearbox, the reins and entrust them with carrying forward Shortly after selling the rights, a remake Returns,' was announced and this project is and Gearbox. Initially, Duncan and Paul were quite hesitant However, they believe that as long as the improves several player pain points, they fans. Additionally, this would give players new it all started. Importantly, the Risk of Rain modding community that everything remains faithful to the original. Hopoo Games remains independent as of this Gamerant in May 2023, the developers assured over their beloved IP. "I think we'll always be interested in how And if there's ever a need for help, or if always going to be collaborative between us But mostly, we just want to make sure that are great. Our biggest focus right now is making sure that people are happy, and that it's fitting After that, Duncan and I can make something