Travis Scott is considered one of the most of our time. His music career made him one of the 15 highest 2018. And this year? Well, his net worth is sitting pretty at $40,000,000. The 28-year-old rapper, whose real name is Texas and in the space of 12 years, he's to being one of the most well-respected musicians hard to hate. Gone are the days of couch surfing for Travis Instead, you can now catch him in a $13.45 maybe driving around town in a Ferrari or The hip hop star has definitely developed the $1.6 million Maybach-outfitter Mercedes And if there's one way that Travis Scott got to be in his crazy jewelry collection. If you think you've seen over-the-top diamonds, a look at the piece that Travis got for himself tour. It's big, it's heavy, it features a Ferris at close to half a million dollars. Curious on what else Travis Scott spends his Well then, we've got you covered. Here is an exclusive look inside the $40,000,000 Growing up, Travis Scott lived in South Park, of 6, and then moved to Missouri City to stay After high school, he attended the University his career in music. His parents didn't take this news very well, that Travis was cut off by them after they When he left university to pursue music full-time, sleeping on a friend's couch throughout Eventually, he launched a band with his friend Their first project, an untitled EP, was released A year later, Travis formed another group and worked on the production aspect of two 2010. The Classmates stayed together until 2012, financial issues. In 2012, Travis Scott signed his first major signed with Kanye West's GOOD Music, as His career started to gain traction in 2013 which had been recreated by Kanye West and T.I, 2 Chainz, A$ap Ferg, Paul Wall and Meek At this point, the hip hop world had no choice Things started to take on a sort of snowball a second mixtape, Days Before Rodeo, which Rodeo. Rodeo was led by the hit single 'Antidote' on YouTube at the time of this recording. His second album, Birds in the Trap Sing McKnight album to hit number one on the Billboard 200 Fast forward to 2018, and Travis drops Astroworld, to his very first Billboard Hot 100 number Now, there's a lot of work that Travis has simple. He has an insanely rich musical history, both really difficult to discuss all of his notable long list of all the projects he's ever He's worked with artists like Big Sean, SZA, Wiz Khalifa and... See? I'm already running the risk of turning Sicko Mode earned a Billboard Music Award a Grammy nomination for best rap album in I think it's pretty clear by now that Travis himself. And with that reputation comes a couple million According to Forbes, the circus-themed Astroworld own. So, what do the rest of the numbers look like? Well, to start off with, booking Travis Scott to $200,000. These booking fees are determined by various length of performance and the location of In addition to his shows, Travis Scott makes streams on Spotify. On Apple Music, he probably makes roughly are fewer listeners on the platform. That's an estimated $82,500 per month. Then, on YouTube, Travis gets, on average, over $600,000 for it. So, if he performs twice in a month, and maintains about $1,147,500 a month, $13,770,000 a year, As if that's not enough on its own, much record sales, tours and that super dope Nike So, what do you do when you're young, talented a comfortable life for yourself? Well, when Travis Scott is not on tour he's time in the Beverly Hills home he bought in According to a number of online sources, the estate, which means that Travis spent a cool Some online sites claim that it's a 6-bedroom, 7 bedrooms and 10 bathrooms. Either way, it's reported that the master the 9000 square foot house, which sits at The house features large, open living areas home theatre, library and wine cellar. Outside, there's a long lap pool and plenty Just one look at Travis Scott's music videos that he's also got a little love for exotic First up on the line-up is his Lamborghini modified by West Coast Customs. The sleek supercar features chocolate interior Next up? The Lamborghini Aventador SV, valued at about Travis Scott went and customized this one than just your average Lambo. Its 6.5 liter V12 engine and 750 horsepower collector could take pride in. Then there's the $1.6 million Maybach-outfitted 2019. Only 99 of the ultra-high-end luxury SUVs Travis acquired the super rare whip through presence online. As the king of customization, Travis decided a deep brown color. But he's not just a fan of spoiling himself In 2018, he splurged on a Ferrari LaFerrari Kylie Jenner. The rare car is valued at $1.4 million, and of the car exist, and as a limited-edition That same year, he surprised his parents with In an Instagram video, Travis is seen presenting Porsche, while his mom is already sitting If you think that he's extravagant when a lot about his taste in jewelry. To celebrate the success of his Astroworld $450,000. Created by celebrity jeweler Elliot Eliantte, and over 1,000 grams of gold. It's reminiscent of his Astroworld set, rocket ship and skull, all surrounding the It's actually really difficult to find any which makes me think that it's extremely wear. Interestingly enough, the most expensive piece wasn't for himself. It's a $500,000 chain that he got for Kylie, Kylie Cosmetics. The piece is encrusted with pink and white Travis is also well known for sporting his $25,000. This particular pair was made by Johnny Dang, brown diamonds in 18 karat gold. While all of these pieces of jewelry are probably that Travis Scott has spent almost a million which isn't even his own. If that doesn't scream millionaire lifestyle, Over the past couple of years, Travis Scott for the way he enjoys the fruit of his labor and, more importantly to him, by spoiling He's mastered the ability to earn through from tours, streaming and endorsement deals. One thing's for sure: Travis Scott has only Well there you have it, the entire $40,000,000 Video. I hope you guys all enjoyed this video and If you want to see more Lifestyle videos just subscribe button and feel free to click the we upload. Also, comment down below any suggestions of on next. That is all we have for today's video, I'm