Our busy lives often lead to feelings of stress, Stress is one of the major causes of illness Luckily, the writings of ancient Taoist sages help us to relieve stress and reduce our endless From a Taoist viewpoint, we go against the things. Forcing means interfering with or even going according to the Taoists. Looking at many of today's societies, we through life. We not only seek to alter nature to our own essentially no control over, like fate and We're obsessed with control. And the Taoist sages teach the opposite: letting In Taoist ancient scriptures, the Tao Te Ching, go is a recurring theme. Lao Tzu, the mysterious author of the Tao of itself and that without interference, everything Also, Liezi observed how obsessed we are with that our efforts to achieve it and our clinging We're unwilling to let go of our restless reason why we aren't. In reality, our efforts not to be unhappy The writings of the ancient Taoists persuade to let go of existing concepts and worldviews, its course, and move with nature rather than The goal? An easier life, less worrying... following Tao, the universal principle. This video explores ancient Taoist ideas that in a world out of control. For those who love reading, Einzelganger Letting Stuff Go, which contains a selection ways to let go of the many attachments of Loose is available on Amazon as a paperback Links below. Antidote one... Leaving things alone The Taoist sage Zhuangzi knew how to do nothing. He didn't interfere with natural processes shape and become something it's not. He left things alone, running their natural In many present-day cultures obsessed with is considered a sin. We don't allow ourselves to "do nothing," We prefer to work against nature over not interfere with what we try to achieve. A previous video about the Taoist concept an example of a farmer pulling his crops to damages his crops in the process. Similarly, we push and pull wherever we can, our progress, leading to stress and exhaustion When we leave things alone, we respect their Our environment doesn't always need our Problems often solve themselves, and life of whether we like the outcome or not). And what seems like lousy luck may be a blessing may turn out to be a curse. Moreover, the universe always gets its way, Antidote two... Stop looking for happiness Zhuangzi couldn't tell if what all those not. But he could see that their ways of trying People are stressed, always in a rush in their look tired and grim. If the chasing of happiness makes our lives We not only exhaust ourselves; we also don't up in a lose-lose situation. Things like wealth and fame might be fun for the long run because as soon as we've obtained Zhuangzi stated, and I quote: Those who think that wealth is the proper those who seek distinction cannot give up cannot give the handle of it to others. While they hold their grasp of those things, When they let them go, they are grieved; and which they might perceive the (folly) of their doom of Heaven. End quote. Zhuangzi argued that contentment and well-being with them in view. If we don't desire happiness and well-being, and the "right" of getting what we wish And thus, we don't worry about getting (or Instead, we enjoy happiness because we have Antidote three... Seeing the emptiness Liezi argued that people generally like to their accomplishments. But Liezi valued emptiness instead, as he empty of all these attachments. We'll have fewer things to worry about if approval and validation. Liezi said that we seek to receive credit doing. Many things people praise us for depend on If the conditions are right, our actions only play their part. For example, people who receive praise as having good genetics leading to high attractiveness So, what accomplishment is genuinely their Instead of worrying about obtaining "praise" Liezi urges us to quiet down and let go. Seeing the emptiness of things can help us If you do not know how to keep still in this of unnecessary trouble. End quote. Many things we chase are empty; there's to them. Praise is empty. And, often (if not always), it's not even The same goes for many other pursuits we deem It's like we engage in them just to divert But if we'd embrace this emptiness, accept the rat races, the continual quest for happiness, Antidote four... The inner law By continually stretching ourselves beyond Taoist sage Lao Tzu. In his profound work, the Tao Te Ching, he stand firmly, and those who rush ahead don't Standing on tiptoes occurs if we try to extend so argued Zhuangzi. The book The Way of Chuang Tzu explains the within himself" and someone "whose law The first person acts without being influenced The second person is directed by things outside his circumstances. Whatever happens in the outside world decides "When he tries to extend his power over said Zhuangzi. When things go well, he's happy and content. When things don't go well, he's unhappy And thus, he tries to get what he wants and with a universe he ultimately cannot control. I quote: He who seeks to extend his control While he thinks he is Others see him merely To stand on tiptoe. End quote. So, one of the lessons we can learn from Zhuangzi's from the outside world and turn it within. Ultimately, it's not the world that decides Therefore, if we seek contentment, adjusting to control our environment. Everything around us is out of control. But we do have control over our thoughts, The less we seek contentment outside ourselves, it. Antidote five... Not worrying about 'fate' Zhuangzi observed that not fate itself but An archer, for example, may shoot perfectly for a prize. As soon as we desire a specific outcome, we The archer of Zhuangzi's story shoots just But when there's a prize in his view, he hasn't changed. "He thinks more of winning than of shooting. And the need to win drains him of power," So, how should we handle fate? How do we treat an uncertain future with the Liezi tells us about an older man from the would fall and the earth would break up. And if that happens, he'd have no place So, a friend tried to calm him down by assuring nothing to worry about. Then, a sage told him there is, in fact, a chances are small, so the elder shouldn't Then Liezi chuckled and said: It's nonsense even to think about whether Whether they will perish or not is something If heaven and earth will not perish, that's We can live our lives without worry. However, if they will perish, that's something it? End quote. The old Taoist sage stated that there's of whether or not the earth will perish. It's something completely out of our control. If it happens, it happens. Moreover, we don't even know what this fate What's it like to be dead? Or, for example, what happens after we lose We assume these happenings are disasters, Again, whatever happens, it's out of our waste of time. Thank you for watching.