- Today we're going to make one of my favorite This is the dish I make when I want to channel my and when I'm in the mood for something super rustic It's gemista, or This is actually a that is easier to make It has three components: the veggies that we have potatoes that are and then we have the stuffing, and the star of that is and you need to soak before you get started. That way it cooks So I'm gonna start by cutting So these have been and kept in water so and I'm just gonna cut And if you've ever thought that veggies couldn't this will show you that This is a meal that and use whatever veggies So I happen to have some They need to be nice and large because you're gonna stuff them. So what I like to is just to go around the top, and you're gonna a nice big opening at the top. And all you have to do Voila, okay? Remove the seeds. We're gonna use the top, so so I go around and clean up anything that You'll wanna have your pan or whatever you're And I'm just gonna drizzle with a little bit of some good Greek extra virgin olive oil. You know where to get it, themediterraneandish.com Just hit the Shop tab Brushing the pan with olive oil. Keep the tops available to you. We're gonna leave them and we're gonna come back to this whole party It's very easy. Just make a nice opening on top, about half an inch and you're going to pull any You kind of make a Isn't that cute? And I find that are the easiest thing to stuff. There's not much And then the tomatoes, okay? And for this you wanna kind They need to be not just enough when you but they do need So don't use something that because it's gonna be in So for this one, you're going to go ahead And you might have because you wanna and there's some flesh So here's that, and you're gonna use this part, so don't do anything with it. And what you do is because you don't wanna injure and you're going to loosen And don't worry, no waste here. This is a Greek recipe. Greek yia yias do not waste. So we're gonna go around, This is where I'm and we're gonna use the And here it is. Voila, here we go. Going in again and And I'm careful not to make All this juice, dump and now my tomato is ready. Here we go. (clicks tongue) And we're keeping this as well, so we're gonna set The tomato flesh you chop up, if it's not fully juiced. And then again, we are going We're gonna start with my basmati rice, and it's very important to know you need to be because it is a The rice needs to be able to break easily between So I'm gonna drain it real fast. Dump your rice, no big deal. And if the rice is still Just make sure you drain Again, I'm seeing a little so I'm gonna go ahead I don't want my but I want it to cook perfectly. So there is a You want some liquid but you don't want So we have a nice big large That goes right in here. Then we have a couple of herbs. I'm using mint and parsley. If you wanna use just I think the mint Then we have some garlic. I'm gonna do a couple and then a couple A little bit of Spanish paprika. Gorgeous, about a And then I'm using And if you haven't tried it, themediterraneandish.com. Hit the Shop tab, because it is so vibrant and the flavor is I mean, look at this And then optional, but I please put some feta in it because feta makes it better. Not too much salt if but you do need a You've got a lot going on here, so you need some seasoning. Salt and pepper, a drizzle of some good Greek nice drizzle to pull this And then you're gonna There are many, and many, many different I've seen people use You name it. We All right, so most Now the fun begins. You just need to assemble these. So all you have to do now Just a word to the wise. You wanna go three quarters of but like leave some room, okay? Because the rice is going to so you wanna just If you stuff it too much it may not cook very well. So you wanna give it that room so it will expand So this is what I like And if you are into feta cheese, crumble a little and put the head back on. Take another pepper. Here you go. Don't try pushing down Just make sure you fill it up three quarters of Just leave some room for the rice to breathe for this steam to do its magic. So every time I make this dish, I really do think of Greece; the hospitality of the people and just they make and abundance and generosity, and this dish is But you'll see, it's very It's one that I make whenever I feel like when I feel like really that people always go like, wow. Just make sure you have the time for the oven to do its magic, but the actual hands-on So now you have your veggies, you wanna make sure You're gonna add your And don't worry, it's all because like I said, you're gonna have it in Another pinch of kosher and on the potatoes especially. Remember, we had a That's for the potatoes. Yeah, flavor party, man! A little bit more oregano I have a cup of crushed tomatoes that I'm gonna just go ahead and pour all over this party. And then a little bit of water, So I'm gonna use the same Really the hard part's over. All we have to do is a of some good extra virgin And doesn't this look like We're gonna tent trying not to touch the But what we wanna do we are trapping the steam in So, we are going in covered for about an hour, and then we're gonna All right, let's see. (groovy music) Oh, ho, ho! That's what I'm talking about! The peppers need collapsed, charred, That looks gorgeous. So it did take about a after you uncover it, and leave it in the This is exactly what you're I can't wait to dig in. When you cut into it, the herby, delicious should just be It should not be sticky. It should be beautiful So let's see. Hot, hot. (hand thumping) It's hot, but so good! It's perfect, mm! Greek comfort food Very much, I feel like my Grab the recipe for these over on and if you're into Greek food, definitely check I will see you later. Ciao. (calm bright music) (music fades)