The 11th Curiosity Box is currently shipping. I'm talking ferrofluid, a trammel of archimedes. I can't give every item away but you will a subscriber. This is a hui stick. Aka a gee-haw whammy diddle. Aka the ouija windmill. Oh yeah it's spooky. It's just a little rubbing stick and a propeller notches on one side. Now when you rub the rubbing stick along the the propeller will spin but the direction All you have to do is say the magic word. Hui. Hui! Hui! Hui? Who? E? How does it work? Well that's what we're gonna talk about To see how the Hui stick works you need to Now here are my hands and let's pretend When you hold the propeller stick you hold other but you don't just rub the rubbing No no no. The trick is that you hold the stick like notches you can press against the propeller or from the other side with your thumb. So as you rub across the notches you are also a finger against one side of the stick or And that is what reverses the direction. Watch this. I will begin. Let's begin with my thumb. I'll try to make them far apart so it's Here I go. I am pressing. I 'm constantly pressing against the stick goes the notch action. Nice! We've got some rotation and that is in a to switch so that my finger, my index finger, stick. You ready? Boom. Whoa! Reversal! Pretty cool huh? But how does it work? Well to begin this investigation let's talk notches are being rubbed. Well that should cause up and down motion. Vertical, straight up and down. Except not exactly. No matter how hard you try, there will always Even if it's just the width of an atom, for a little bit of rotation to be induced. You can try this at home. Take something like a pencil and a roll of Put the pencil through and try to move the No matter how hard you try, rotation will Only if you're able to move the pencil up mass of the ring so you only push it up and little error from there introduces a torque loop makes it stronger and stronger. This is exactly what's happening with the I don't know if you can tell but the shaft to the propeller stick is much thinner than Here's an example that's been deconstructed. You see that shaft there's quite thin and This means that as that shaft bounces around hole and can push and drag through friction To see how exactly those vibrations of the motion footage. Here's how we made it. I took a laser measure that shoots out a laser in the same hand as the hui stick and projected so that when I stroked the notches they would they would both vibrate together and I could Now when I don't even press a finger against motion. The propeller stick doesn't just vibrate It does move in circles sometimes but it's It's definitely not controlled. But if I press my index finger against the And if I press my thumb against the right And because the shaft has room inside that motion easily translates into rotation for But why does putting a finger on the side Well there have been many many papers written all agree with each other. Many explanations just simply say that it mechanism but I've done a few experiments my findings and this is what I believe is stick. I believe that it doesn't just matter which It also matters which side top or bottom your And here's why. Let's pretend that this circle is a front So we're looking straight at it and the that the propeller sits on. Now if this is that hui stick as I rub across It's pushed down when the stick is on the back up because of course my hand is holding it in contact with that rubbing stick it goes is on top of a notch. Then it comes back up when I'm in a notch But when I drag a finger along the hui stick Right? I'm not reaching down below the middle of I'm on top. And look at what happens. Two torques. Two torques because when I press a finger a torque that causes rotation in this direction. But of course the stick doesn't keep rotating the other way. It produces a counter torque that keeps the And it is the interplay between these two And here's why. Let's go back to our big circle. If this is the hui stick and my finger is, here. Let's say my finger's up here. Producing a push, a force, a torque in that a torque in this direction. When the notches are rubbed and the stick disengages from my finger's torque and now and it slightly moves this way before going through the finger's constraint getting away from the finger where the torque from role and so we get rotation like this. Rotation that is counterclockwise when seen Let's see if that can be confirmed by experiment. I'm gonna put my finger in the upper right You ready? Upper right quadrant as seen from the front. Will I get motion that is to you counterclockwise. Yes I do. Now, if instead I put a finger, let me erase If I instead rub my finger along the other That's a big magnified finger. If I put my finger here and I push this way rubbed and the propeller stick, oh wait, if hand is going to produce a counter torque That's very important. So the hand holding the back of the stick So oh yeah let's grab this one. Now when the propeller stick moves down because rubbing stick it disengages with that finger's Then it flies back up, reengages with the way and so on until we get clockwise rotation. Will a finger dragged along the upper left I think we already know the answer to this I'm going to rub my thumb along that side, will get clockwise rotation. Pretty amazing. But if this is true that means that it should of the stick because if we restart our diagram or the left above but instead down below like means that we have to produce a torque that hand. Boy I'm not a very good drawer but I think Now when the stick is pushed down by the rubbing and is pushed that way but then it flies back hand pushes it a little bit to the right and We got counterclockwise motion when my finger lower right quadrant we should see clockwise. Let's try and experiment. I'm going to begin by putting my finger I'm going to press against that quadrant We should see some rotation and we do. We see clockwise rotation but now I'm going right now. And it reverses direction. Likewise if I rub my thumb along the upper direction but if while I do this I manage I reverse directions. Pretty cool. Pretty cool. If this explanation is true then we should a force is applied that the up and down vertical To try that out I created a hui stick comb. It's just like a usual rubbing stick but put a torque directly 90 degrees from the the notches and because these teeth are quite the propeller stick from that torque like Now let's see what happens here. I'm going to start by applying the torque And we get some rotation but watch what happens No reversal. Okay here comes the force on the left side I am really pushing but the propeller stick take advantage of the interplay between the and the steadying hand's opposite torque Please when you get your hui stick perform It is a blast and it's really good exercise myself so have fun, stay curious, and as always, By the way the shirt that I have been wearing I talk about cardinal and ordinal numbers numbers. Cardinal. It's a great word and it's a great bird. Cardinals are a very common sports team mascot. In fact my middle school, Blue Valley Middle So we started thinking what if we made a shirt a sports team but not just the cardinals but Now the smallest transfinite cardinal, the and there's the symbol for Aleph-Null. Aleph-Null is how many whole numbers there It's how many integers there are. It's how many even numbers there are and it's So I wear this shirt with an infinite sense And I hope you do to.