[Music] Ryan is the creator of Node.js and a background in mathematics. So, Ryan, uh good morning everyone. Node is quite old. My original goal with Node was to force forcing them to only use async IO. This is platform is making use of non-blocking I was a graduate student in math, in Upstate I like the work of it it's not really my professors would say like: &quot;Someday maybe and it's just like yeah that's that's kind of be be doing something that is more related I moved randomly to South America and found I was working on like a snowboard marketing not like the sort of thing that is like quickly moved into more abstract problems, you realize we should implement this on Ruby on why is that slow, maybe we should be implementing working on Nginx modules, lower level technology, place within that. [Music] What brought me to with me to South America. She was my girlfriend, an exchange program and she had to go back to me you know not knowing what I'm doing, having ended up living in Cologne for 2 years or so. It paid like $400 a month for my room and it provided things and work on different projects and yeah I just kind of sitting in Cologne, thinking about lead and I'm all the way from Aarhus, Denmark V8 came out I was thinking about those sort of servers and you know this new JavaScript runtime about the right things at the right time. I very quickly realized that these websites were and stuff were basically non-existent. There was different domains and I was certainly building was the first system to really make this kind [Music] I started working on it in like basically stopped everything I was doing and worked on it from like February to Around the time that Node was first getting kind of frustrated that I PHP and JavaScript. PHP on the back-end it's a programming language, why don't And there was a handful of people all trying Kris Kowal and a handful of others started this a specification for all these new server side Node sort of came out of left field a little picked JavaScript not because he was particularly I realized that I needed some sort of high level to get real users using this. And I looked around time with Lua and I spent some time with Haskell with my friend and I just had this idea like oh like so perfectly clear at that moment that a particular kind of IO paradigm that he wanted storm of like large community of developers, language and it has no IO paradigms already, Python or whatever, you know, you're sort of existing code is using this older kind of more 0.0.2 I first came across and was like oh this is my Mac so I was like well this is obviously broken and I had this idea that we were going to write a stack can do and actually use it for a proper side JS. I'd built this little tic-tac-toe here we go, we've got two different web browsers. hey have you checked out Node and I was like yeah of I don't know seems kind of niche. He was like really cool. So I did I went back and checked it did build on my machine. I played with it and way to do it, like this actually feels much more surely there were more and more people that came along and built this npm system, this node of people maybe a dozens but not hundreds on people would share things they'd be like hey I for such and such database, or it does this or whatever, check it out, let me know what you from GitHub and then you need to copy this other you need to run &quot;make&quot; and then copy this file pain in the ass. I wrote a message to the mailing manager. Here's kind of what I think it should It started out as essentially a bash script that little cleverness to it and it copied a lot of which is the package manager that Yahoo that Yahoo did was, any developer can publish and you're supposed to just be publishing when you're in dev mode. And then you kind you ship your application or whatever. I of anybody should be able to publish anything, because I did not want to be in the loop, package it should just be like yeah you go Yeah and that's been pretty effective since I At that point I kind of had this initial version the first JSConf EU. Uh I'm going to talk about side JS platform. Uh it's built on Google's V8. preparing for this forever and this was like my lot of pressure to make sure it went okay. What I that you can make very highly concurrent servers to abstract all of the difficult non-blocking it's just going to be callbacks. You know, I'm but I was like very prepared with this demo. advance and you know everybody's presenting a very serious toy project that I was working server in Node. Like a chat server that people in written in JavaScript. And like in 2009 this like oh wow you can build this in JavaScript with this in real time. Yay! I'm so glad that who knows like the Wi-Fi could have gone were not working properly. But thankfully of jump started the Node project right, a lot of [Music] In 2009, I was actually mostly bit of JavaScript because I was working at ran a conference JSConf had this great talk about it a lot and so I was like okay I should I have a lot of these kinds of problems, I should anybody written a proxy in this yet? You know not but nobody had actually written an HTTP proxy you would want to really do in it. And I'd spent proxy that was very as optimized as you can make I'm pretty convinced that that's about as fast maybe try for a weekend and maybe a few weekends, 4 hours I had a a proxy, it worked pretty well, Python proxy was like not even close. Like it after the project had been out for a week so you I even doing spending my time writing Python so not not going to write Python anymore I'm going programmer so that went over about as well as you Back then there weren't these established channels there wasn't Discord. GitHub was super primitive. There was no continuous integration back then, operating systems for every patch, like I was the seems ridiculous. But there was no infrastructure assumed that he was German because on the IRC know. It's like Ryan Dahl, like that's a pretty IRC Channel speaking in German. I was at the time the Common.js group was pushing forward and after and I was like oh hi and he was like I'm Ryan, Dahl from Node I'm like oh oh like your English Diego so it should be. [Music] When I was still in I got approached by a number of companies that Node. I flew out to San Francisco and met with for a way to fund this this project. I mean it like I knew I was on to something but I could right, I needed somebody to pay for this. And This is the computer that we founded the Joyent and they would like Node to work on this hosting run Node applications there, and I thought that incentives were correctly aligned. Joyent had been of their kind of marketing and their business enterprise stuff. They weren't really well known hackers who were getting involved in Node. I think really know who Joyent was and they were just gonna keep working on it, that's great. I moved you know, basically continuing to work on that I would also work on Joyent's software at I was interested in in you know servers and but like I mean by the time I joined like Node was I mean it was just really clear that this and I ended up not doing anything at I think Ryan definitely was surprised that surprised I mean, I think he thought like that was why he chose JavaScript was time like there's a big difference between.. be surprised by what it's like, right. surprised by what it's like to run a huge [Music] I was working at a startup where we did yeah there were some complicated computations we so that we could like people show people quickly reasons we would have to replicate that in programming language. So yeah I was already thinking about okay how can I translate JavaScript you're the only engineer on a big project. We if you write lots of database statements and you forever. In order to get that database migration bunch of stuff in parallel, and that actually at that point I was hooked, I mean I knew that [Music] I was considering getting a job some Node hosting stuff, so I mentioned no don't do that. Joyent just hired me, they're like you should come join this team and work on that's a much better choice. It was like me and San Francisco. I would come in and and sit at and you know basically did that for for quite a doing when it was me in my apartment and him in Yeah and so that was kind of the first phase it's a living creature and with that comes some it. In the like 0.0-0.1 kind of versions of Node, well I broke all the Node programs, pushed a changed. He had this plan where you know he would and then 0.4 would be stable and in between these would keep doing these breaking changes until wouldn't guarantee a breaking change. The first rename of a module, renaming sys to util, and like you could just return that module, it's like he wanted to rename the module so he's going to nobody could understand why that opinion was worth maturity levels to projects and when things are just make it the way that it needs to work. The came out around the same time as node 0.0.8, it so they like had to update everything and then like as we were like seesawing towards getting actually grow on. What else is there before we not a totally laid out road map for 1.0 because reworking the plumbing and then revisit that Node was starting to have many users and I we're going to do this, I'm just going to shut paint the room and then turn the lights I think it's just kind of at the cusp of one things were still being changed in earnest. And extent in those early days but I think it was honest I mean once it got really popular things more careful. [Music] A year or so into working hey we want to buy this project from you and of it from me. I mean it's an open source project. manage the project, own the trademark, own the We did this deal and I walked away not completely think it kind of happened a little bit under the was somebody who raised some question on the like what does this mean for Node and like what fear. And my response was like: what's the big like the code is MIT licensed. If Joyent turns take this code and put a new name on it. Like even I have a potentially impertinent question, I read know is there going to be some conservancy or is to sort of shepherd that out in the future? Um no uh pushing it forward. In the end the software that will prevent any sort of problems. Joyant um they've done a great job. I mean just another a logo right, this is a conference about a that's still MIT licensed and it will be forever. me included, really brushed it off. Because they need you to write the software, you're not we didn't think that the switching cost would Node at the time only ran on Mac OS and Linux startup were all using Windows. So you know servers but we were not able to develop with it. kind of got a life of its own. Now it turned out complicated, mostly because the way windows Linux how they approach asynchronous IO. That because asynchronous IO is everywhere but yeah at I got sort of a first pro protype off the you know. At the time all discussions around this and I described more or less how I would approach established. I think he said like okay well yeah how I got into all this. This was like more than know if if Node is a building like we basically it 50m, and then kind of set it down on a new not about Node but something that underlies Node, idea. So like before, Node 0.4. was using another wrapper around a function called select. And old and it's almost on every operating system but if you want to make a runtime that runs stuff was really built around that primitive. So what make libev work on Windows anyway and that only is just you know don't use libev, like you know Windows Node.js would basically have a completely because it made made the code for Node.js very position. And so his idea was okay let's just as possible but exposes an abstraction that works working on it is basically I took the code that the Windows side of libuv. And he took libev and become sort of the initial version of the Linux we had hired some more people like Ben Noordhuis a lot better and like make it more maintainable that part essentially but yeah it was like Ryan closely to get the first design out of the door. Node runs fantastic on Windows. I don't think or even known about that much but it was a massive to users. They just use it on Windows right, but effect on the how much people have been able to of Node being really good on Windows, because is that when StackOverflow became like the about programming, a lot of Node questions ended was starting to think like maybe we shouldn't started looking at Node.js and they found that up adopting it and creating this whole community at a certain point I realized that some of the maybe we should take an interest in this, so would ask a Node.js question on StackOverflow Like immediately all the project contributors this is too much stuff. Because they had just about our software problems and that wouldn't have For a long time, growing the community meant and fixing performance and making sure that you Um those were our bottlenecks for a while but you know basically said: hey like I'm you know this is the first project I've ever worked on that me. I'm over it, like I'm kind of burnt out on from Joyent he had fully invested into. And I doing our weekly builds and we had a core team you know designated areas of responsibility. Yeah a Joyent employee to be like their you know the like gatekeeper say on what goes into a release, keep doing that job because I'm going to leave. just came down to a business decision of, you has bought it from me, they're going to manage it, I've been paid so, you know, it seems to be going He basically went off and kind of became a out here to New York. I didn't have a job my preferred mode of operation, which is hanging started just sort of being the you know the main was a lot more challenging, I mean, it was I didn't have the same level of like moral right. I wasn't its original inventor. Yeah it but there was also a lot of things that really had to rely on the rest of the the core this is actually kind of perfect because now thing that you're into and then you just hand and it's just kind of obvious. When he gave it like you know he wrote he made npm, that's why already. But like you know in that transition transition from one Joyent employee to another, same relationship with the project anymore. more difficult with some of those contributors relationships got stretched very thin. Joyent the Node company and we're real and Isaac's the follow his direction, which was kind of.. I mean to just sort of cement that like Node is still also it had this kind of weird effect of sort of the corporate shill. And I definitely encountered [Music] I've been using node since 0.6, which or early 2012. I was in art school in Toronto at a lot of like site-based installation work. I was like large didactic installation. I had this goal and open their phone and control the installation. to have to go into like a walled garden eco system want to like have to learn Objective C or Java it with web technologies. I found this protocol within music software and artist software for kind I found a tutorial on how to do it with PHP, that with Python and that didn't work. Then I found a didn't work, but I knew just enough JavaScript work. And in about like 15 or 20 minutes I had a kind of for me like the wow moment. Like we talk in product as far as like getting people running of Node.js. It gives you all of these like really maybe reserved for like systems programmers or all of a sudden with like a bit of JavaScript I I pushed for you know hiring another Node was doing the weekly releases, there was marketing legal whatever whatever type of things there was also just running the project. So we doing a lot of like build tooling type stuff, early like scripts to build and deploy Node, Ryan built a tarball of the code and they uploaded it And then we started doing like pre-built binaries for that you had to either like cross compile scripts for doing these builds had gotten really in and his first job was like make all of that right, put it in some kind of CI system so motivation was largely spent in open source opportunity to work at Joyent, I was incredibly on open source. It wasn't just any open source I left Joyent not because I was like burnt go fix npm. In the time that I'd been running the npm. Like it was coasting along more or less kind of in a hurry to go deal with that and what I would have done differently or what I did just sort of like rush out the door, toss the He was left without a ton of guidance in terms effective. I remember talking to folks at Joyent I don't have any problem with him taking over the like it's a project thing and not a Joyent because he had shown great vision. He became at Joyent on Node.js related stuff and so you position to be in and not a very effective project in the right direction. Some people left they were gone. And then you know TJ is trying Who wants to be involved now, right, like it's your company's project that you're to show up and be your free labor, you know, [Music] Releases kind of ended up slowing down, what's going to get in and what's at least people's impression, was that Joyent which is extremely impressive for the time at like V8 or making changes to certain interfaces the platform or the needs of the community they had built. So there was this huge conflict platform for themselves was in conflict with So my understanding is they stopped accepting things like updating V8. Node was starting features that people wanted to use. Node.js is it but I would not bet the company on Joyent. I maybe a little childish, um so I I would fork it [Music] I had taken a break from core for a while hear from people that there was going to be a who would be doing that, maybe I should just do that. And what I figured out was that like to be three forks. Because not only were people not really talking to each other, like a lot of decided to do at that time was just you know at didn't start as corporately stewarded, it started it got turned into a corporately stewarded project drifted into the point where the corporation was with the expectations of the community. So the right, like we're going to like go do our thing. since so many people are going to be in the conference. And this is you know a collection some of their employers, some of the startups around Node. It's not a group of people that get happens with the BDFL model is that you have all project and they have to fight with one person to fighting with each other too. We were all now that we had with Joyent. When we walk away from we say that we're going to have 3 weeks and what we kind of want to see and you can just and we can like have a conversation, move a date that we'll do something. So we create Basically every core committer on the project or Forward group but TJ refused um abstained from it, didn't join. The idea there was just to kind of to Joyent, we said Node needs open governance and question, we'll get right back, we'll get back We put together this offer that in we would just operate the project under this they could just pull it away and we would have to and create something else or call it something they didn't participate at all um and when contributors without talking to anybody So we were like oh okay so they told us to week though, they get a new CEO and so everyone off and fork but now all of the companies and let us try to negotiate with this new a totally reasonable guy, like we really and they're not wrong Scott Hammond's a totally in the community. The team at Joyent had.. We that Node was an important project to Joyent and I whole to the much broader developer community. So meeting with a lot of the key stakeholders like set up a time for us to like chat and kind of like learning the space. We set up uh community council or something, where I wanted each of the different facets to really vet Node should be going forward. So they created board, and they were like: we're doing this to lot of things that they didn't do and we're like listening. We were working on new features but It's just dragging on and on and we keep arriving they have a governance policy that they where we now have more people contributing to already in private. Essentially what I tried that we've talked about in terms of governance this kind of Node Forward repo. The core devs who oh cool like this is a place where I can actually not going to end up in a Node release yet but list whereas all these patches I keep sending pending forever and they're not happening, so TJ's not working on this project but the main Fedor and Trevor porting stuff out of this private just getting annoyed with this situation and we do a big thing about it. Let's not rub it in the annoyance of it being private. That leads to know insinuating that I'm going to be sued for was called Node, that was clearly competing with same uh market category as Node and so therefore it. And we're like there are tens of thousands they're all in the same space as Node and they're like this doesn't make any sense and they're like about trademark law is if you don't enforce your enforce your trademark rights and I told them that around Node and Node.js. We don't really want about it, what we really want to do is just where the contributors have more control over the it. In the end, I disagreed with what they were the big users. The feedback that I was getting that if Node Forward goes ahead as a separate willing to make a bet and a commitment on Node So they wanted a healthy singular community, so I was very concerned from that. And that these depend on for providing additional technical flipped it back to private. I'm like you guys fork. And so Fedor replied: okay I forked it, We were at some family's house and just had start getting pinged by like reporters. And my God like how could you do this, like this is over a holiday weekend. And I was just like I have the reporters were pinging me like: would you who? Uh I've never heard of this thing and then I look at the like comments that Fedor like Wednesday, he was just like: hey what rename and then open source it again, and I think that'd be fine. And then like 6 hours go well cool I'm doing it. And then he did. everybody in the US wakes up and sees that Node. From my perspective at the time, it seemed Node.js and people were pissed and they were seemed you know like very reasonable to me, it everybody working on io.js had previously been same people, it was the same codebase. We were our ideal would have been if Joyent were pulling it seem like a big drama to you? I mean there it just seemed like okay well like I guess we'll the beauty of Open Source you can fork things. Joyent at the time, I think they would probably me when the when the io.js fork did come out. uh I was disappointed. The community sentiment was Node has stalled, io.js is the [Music] That's kind of the thing that's is that like instability and chaos actually makes is really dangerous for companies that are trying slippery and brittle. And so you know like that boat by changing the name and forking it. It's I'm a dolphin, like it's all good, the more problem because you're the one in a boat. Um sense but um... Our first release had you know that everybody's been wanting forever. So we had a But Joyent was very upset because, and enough at the time, but this is property so to them it was always like we had had done from our perspective was like not the work that we were doing and do it So this is uh mostly for Scott but what are First. Yeah great great question uh I thought that we have a governance model around the project progress around what the road map is and the so making sure that the project is run in that uh represents the special interests of any being this really big shot across the bow as far had in Node was actually at risk right. That their heels and refuse to move and refuse to going to left be left holding an empty bag. what are you guys working on that you're of organizations for a foundation for Node.js. We be the steward of Node but we needed Node as a very broad adoption, broad contribution. So we The biggest sort of change on the immediate which Joyent announced yesterday. And that's the beginning of a different road, with involved in this. IBM throws James Snell at both governance models, tell us what you think. So in manager and the first thing that she asked me to Node. The second directive was figure out how to back and he says well you know io.js has this governance policy and here's the release policy Node doesn't really have a policy or governance Foundation says hey Mikeal uh can you solve this bring it to a vote in io.js and what what could to the Foundation and continue io.js releases another repository. Then we kind of put it to you think? There were a lot of people that came There was a lot of consternation about what Node did, but we took some of those ideas from that going to be run going forward. There was a lot so why not. Scott had a job to do, he did up being a pretty positive outcome for the Node are you in favor of reconciliation with node? as long as we can ship the releases regularly. have a Node Foundation and impressed with reconcile. So I'm very optimistic. We never the other project other than governance. So if we are fully happy. Do we want to go back around scope of this proposal is something I can agree one. Plus one. Plus one enough. Plus one for me yeah! We announced it and rolled it out and moved [Music] I mean at the end of the day, essentially in the Node Foundation. There was like a little somewhat conflicted with the stuff that was in and so there was like a little bit of technical those things back together. But then I think which was the merger of io.js and Joyent Node. thing would just bring us back to the way things 0.10 to 0.12. Obviously that is not, that has a proper Node release at this point. So we were 0.12 in January. We had io.js 2.0 in May, and Node 5.0 in October. During that same period new open governance model, based on what io.js had around like this one especially around like this fact that, like the whole time, people were having work on the software and to build things in the new contributors, like the the core team whatever something that I learned later in life yeah it's governance. That's the thing like stories in real midway and they they don't end they keep going. documentary talking all about the ins and outs of stories to be told there. The most positive part challenges, despite any of the personal conflict, like Node is still strong. It's still doing major it's still shifting its culture. I ran the Node.js of people that played some leadership role in who are more interested in solving that problem [Music] infrastructure it's hard to measure the impact of machinery that is operating essentially behind in in some respect. It might be a little on where exactly this is having an impact. Is a comment and and it pops up immediately? somebody's typing. That's probably going through What is very rewarding is building are using and that is being built on and [Music] developers find jobs across Europe new challenge in one of these European want to see more tech documentaries, then [Music]