[warning] You're about to watch what is without doubt some of the cruellest, most horrific vision we've ever broadcast. It shows the shameful bullying and physical abuse Lee-Anne Mackey received at the hands of the people employed to look after her at the group home where she lived. But as you'll see, these carers couldn't care less. They thought because Lee-Anne has severe cerebral palsy and is non-verbal, they'd get away with their vile behaviour. Now while it's correct Lee Anne doesn't speak, she's not voiceless. Unknown to her attackers, she communicated the mistreatment to her parents, Lorraine and Rob, who then took the law into their own hands, using a hidden camera to expose a terrible truth. 53-year-old Lee-Anne Mackey is as big a Brisbane Lions fan as you'll find. And she's probably one of their sassiest supporters. Never mind her severe cerebral palsy, or her inability to speak she still has a voice. Lorraine: It's pretty basic, really for her communication. As her mum Lorraine explains, Lee-Anne moves her eyes to our right for yes and our left for no. Tara: Yeah, that's the key, isn't it? T: Where Lee Anne looks. When you have a conversation with Lee- Anne, it's clear her mind is sharp as is her sense of humour. So, your dad was telling me, it was a big moment for him when you decided to live on your own. [Lee-Anne Looks] It took him two years to get used to you being gone. [Lee-Anne Looks] Did you miss him as much? No. [Laughs] He'll love that you said that. [laughs] L: Did you miss me? [Lee-Anne looks] L: Oh...oh, that was a maybe? T: Yes and no. Gotta say nice things about mum when she's sitting in front of you, don't you? Yes. The bond between Lee-Anne and her parents, Rob and Lorraine, is obvious. She makes a practice of giving them stick, and they love her for it. L: Her personality is happy, easy going, fun-loving, caring person with a great sense of humour. Always worried about other people. Beautiful person. Everybody that came in touch with her fell in love with her. Yeah. Rob: Very affable, That's it, that's Lee-Anne to a T. Was Lee-Anne. T: Not any more? R: No, not any more now. Our happy affable loveable girl is no longer what she used to be. Carer: Shut the fuck up. Shut up. Stop yelling. What you are about to see is a gross betrayal of our most vulnerable. Vile physical abuse and bullying inflicted on Lee-Anne by the people paid to care for her. Callous treatment that stunned authorities. Travis: She said she was in fear. She was scared, she was frightened, and she was upset. How could she not be? And astounded disability advocates. Leigh Meyer: It was shocking. It was appalling. Lee-Anne's complaints, ignored and disbelieved until Rob and Lorraine caught her abusers on camera. T: It must have been awful to be proven right? L: It was. R: It was horrific. Absolutely horrific. LM: They assumed, I think, that they could get away with it. T: Did you understand why they were treating you that way? [Lee-Anne looks] But now thanks to Lee-Anne's bravery police are putting the care industry on notice. TK: The message is that we're aware that this is happening. And we're here and we're waiting for you to report it to us. T: You're making a promise to act. TK: Yep. We certainly am. T: And protect? TK: Yep. Absolutely. For 25 years, Lee-Anne has been living in independent housing run by Scope, one of Victoria's biggest disability support providers. In 1999 Lee-Anne decided that she was done living with mum and dad and took the big step of moving out. For years Lee-Anne was happy, then, five years ago her parents noticed a dramatic change in their daughter. They were immediately suspicious of how she was being treated. T: When did you first notice there was something amiss something was wrong for her? L: Early in 2019, um, we started to realise that Lee-Anne was sort of struggling with pain. Um, we took her to the rehab specialist that looked after her. They did tests to find out that she had I think quite a few fractures, old fractures. T: What were those fractures from? L: They're from rough manual handling. Lee-Anne said they were pulling her across the bed with her arms and legs. This doctor's report from 2019 identifies those numerous fractures but Scope management refused to take responsibility claiming there was no medical evidence their staff caused them. At the same time, Lee-Anne was diagnosed with osteoporosis which as her parents know, means she needs to be moved with great care. But she complained the rough handling from staff continued. R: There you go, wanna grab that pillow for me? L: The worst part of it was Scope didn't acknowledge what we were telling them. They didn't take responsibility for her rough handling, and it just kept going on. R: No, it's more like, more lip service wasn't it. Every time the response you would get would be, always in their favour. You know because oh we've investigated, but why would this person make that complaint if it wasn't true. You always felt that was basically looking after the brand, or the staff member rather than the person they're caring for. To her parents' dismay, Lee-Anne's condition got worse. She was in constant pain, not sleeping, and clearly distressed. And yet their concerns were repeatedly dismissed by Scope. So in an act of desperation, Rob and Lorraine took the law into their own hands. took the law into their own hands. R: And I thought well what the heck's going on and that's when we decided to do what we did. T: Which was what? R: We've put the camera in. T: When you decided to put in a hidden camera did you think you had the right to do that legally? R: No we didn't, we really didn't think about it that much. It wasn't until actually later, I thought oh hang on it is illegal to put that camera in but then I don't care. We will suffer the consequences if there is any because I had to put it in, for what's the best for our daughter. And that was it, in a nut shell. And as you'll see what that camera captured, broke their hearts. [Screaming] [TICK TICK TICK] Our home should be where we feel most safe. But for Lee-Anne Mackey, a 53-year-old with severe cerebral palsy her sanctuary was turned into a house of horror where she suffered hurt and humiliation. Behind the walls of this group home, the unthinkable occurred. The very people tasked with caring for Lee-Anne were bullying and abusing her. If not for her parents Rob and Lorraine that abuse may well have continued. T: When you looked at this vision for the first time, what did you think? L: I call out to Robert, come and have a look what they're doing. This is disgusting. I can't believe that the staff would think that they can get away with treating Lee-Anne like this. In an act of desperation, Rob and Lorraine had installed a hidden camera in Lee-Anne's room. They could never have imagined what was really going on. In hours and hours of recordings, what they captured was degrading, depraved, and dangerous. Carer 1: She said, 'fuck off, slut'. We just called her a hag. Unable to walk or talk, Lee-Anne is helpless as the women she has to rely on for care, taunt and toy with her for their own kicks. Carer 1: Did you see that? I went like this. Carer 2: Oh shit, you are sick Lisa. Carer 1: Aw, she hasn't got a gag reflex. [Laughing] Monika Paniczko has been Lee-Anne's carer for 17 years. Lisa Wilson, for four. Two women Lee-Anne has always trusted. What is it? Monika: Come have a look. Lisa: If you throw something... Lisa: Quick, quick. As stomach churning as this is, it gets worse as Lisa spits down the tube into Lee-Anne's mouth. [Laughing] Joining in on the vile behaviour is Anastasia Moutsis. L: It's just disgusting behaviour. My heart just goes...I've cried so much everything over all this since it happened. Travis Kinghorne: I was shocked, horrified, was very confronting So was the rest of my team, we just couldn't believe what we were seeing. The treatment was disgusting. Detective Senior Constable Travis Kinghorne from Victoria Police was called in to launch what would become a two-year-investigation. T: Did it make you angry? TK: It certainly ignited a fire in myself and my team to investigate this and hold these people to account. The Mackeys had gathered irrefutable and distressing evidence. This is hard enough to watch but then what Lisa Wilson does next is sickening. T: What was the worst thing that you saw on those tapes? L: When they were changing her and they've got special wipes they use and they wiped her and then they wiped her face with it and said 'can you smell your vagina?'. Lisa: Is this for your face? It's just been wiped with your arse. Monika: Yes, but that's all right. Now you smell your vagina. Lisa: There you go. You can eat pussy for dinner. [Laughing] L: I don't know how carers who'd cared for Lee-Anne for so long R: Don't know how they'd find that funny. L: ...could do anything like that. You know has done. One of the carers always used to say to me 'I'd like you as a mother.' But she did that to my daughter. I just can't believe that. Monika: Can you smell it? Your vagina? Smell like fish? Lisa: Hey Monika. Monika: Don't even joke. [Lisa feigns vomiting] Monika: Oh fuck, you're disgusting. At the height of the Covid-19 pandemic, when the fear of getting it was fever pitch, Lee-Anne was treated without mask or gloves and then subjected to this Monika Paniczko claims she may have the deadly virus. She then spits in Lee-Anne's mouth claiming she wants Lee-Anne to get sick too. Monika: Maybe I have Corona? If I have it, I want you to have it too. There you go, we both have it. TK: Inserting a pole into Lee-Anne's mouth, inserting a cylinder into Leanne's mouth, sticking their fingers into Lee-Anne's mouth quite deep down into her throat and spitting into Lee-Anne's mouth which, remember this was during a global pandemic, and Lee-Anne is a very vulnerable person, but was also very compromised medically. T: It could have been a death sentence. TK: Yeah, absolutely. Leigh Mayer: They were abusing her. They were violent. Lee-Anne's disability advocate Leigh Mayer, has seen a lot in her career but little compares to the life-threatening position Lee-Anne was put in. T: One worker telling Lee-Anne that she's going to give her covid at a time when covid for a vulnerable person could have been deadly. That seems cruel to me. LM: It's wicked. Yeah. And it is trying to abuse her because they knew they had the power to. T: How much suffering does that type of abuse represent? LM: I think it's untold. I think that Leanne still lives with the trauma and her parents do as well. L: Relieving it was pretty painful. Lee Anne uses this simple communication board shifting her eyes to our right to give a yes answer, to our left for no to respond to questions about her terrible treatment. T: Did you understand why they were treating you that way? No. That's a clear no. L: That's a clear no. T: Did it destroy your trust? Yes. L: Straight to yes. T: We heard you crying out at night-time on those videos. Were you crying out because you were in pain? Yes. Were you crying out because you were frightened? L: That's yes. T: It must feel terrifying to be trapped, to feel trapped? Yes. L: Yeah. Her abusers might have felt like they had all the power. Lisa Wilson certainly told her so. Lisa: You're not a queen, you're not a princess, you're disabled. But Lee-Anne fought back, demanding her most basic human rights. T: All she wants is someone like you to do what you promised to do. It's not that big an ask, is it? [TICK TICK TICK] This is a special day out for animal lover Lee-Anne Mackey watching police horses at play, as they show off their soccer skills. She's here with her mate Detective Senior Constable Travis Kinghorne from Victoria Police. TK: This is Maurice. It was his investigation which led to charges being brought against three disability workers for their terrible abuse of Lee-Anne who is incapacitated by severe cerebral palsy. Lisa Wilson, Monica Paniczko and Anastasia Moutsis were all guilty of assault, but as you'll see justice was bittersweet and almost denied. [Screaming] It's evidence Lee-Anne's parents Rob and Lorraine, never wanted to find. Stop it, go to sleep it's not time to get up, stop yelling. Their daughter in obvious pain, first ignored and then abused by the people paid to care for her, at the Scope supported group home Lee-Anne has lived in for 25 years. R: Just got to pause it for a minute. T: It's too hard. R: Yeah, it just makes me angry. Rob and Lorraine had installed a hidden camera when their complaints to management had been ignored. Confronted with undeniable evidence, Scope had no choice but to call in police. T: If you hadn't installed a hidden camera, what do you think would have happened? R: We would have found out none of that. She would have had a lot worse state than she is now. T: They call you in to investigate. Did they express any regret about not believing her in the first place? TK: No, not at all. T: When they're presented then with the video evidence backing up what Lee-Anne said the whole time did they not hang their heads in shame? TK: They certainly didn't say anything to me. I think they have to protect their image, protect themselves. T: How is it possible that in this day and age Lee-Anne could be treated that way? Lisa Evans: What happened to Leanne is terrible and we offer I'm deeply sorry and we deeply regret that it happened in our service. Apologising for the failings of her predecessors, Lisa Evans is the acting CEO and current Chief Operating Officer of Scope. She says it's a very different place under her management, hoping to reassure Lee-Anne who now lives in a new Scope home. T: Well, Leanne says today she does not feel safe. LE: And that's really, I guess it's awful. There's nothing worse than hearing that. The video evidence collected over 18 months makes it clear why Lee-Anne is still so fearful. It certainly seemed like all police would need in their case against the three carers which went to court in 2022. T: Once it has been seen, it can't be unseen. So how important was it to get it before the court? TK: It was vital. You can't argue with it, can you? But there was a problem. Broadly, it's illegal to film people in private without their permission so the biggest challenge was to convince the court to allow the covert footage to be used as evidence. After two days of deliberations the court finally agreed. This would be the Mackeys' greatest win heralding a change in the law in Victoria that better safeguards people with disabilities. TK: We've set a really strong precedence now to say that we can use that footage to prosecute carers who mistreat our most vulnerable people. In 2022 the three women who abused Lee-Anne, Lisa Wilson Monika Paniczko, and Anastasia Moutsis all initially pleaded guilty to assault. But their penalty was a slap on the wrist Convictions, minor fines and unpaid community service work. Most staggeringly, they all appealed, and while the charges were proven against Wilson and Moutsis, no convictions were recorded. As for Paniczko, an appeal court allowed her to drop her guilty plea and complete a diversion program, requiring her to apologise to Lee-Anne and to donate to a charity of Lee-Anne's choice. If she does so by August this year, there will be no finding of guilt against her. L: I think they got off very lightly. They've destroyed Leanne's life and they've destroyed our lives. All I can think about every night is, 'I hope Lee-Anne's okay now.' T: So, what should have happened to those women, do you think? L: Oh, I've thought maybe a little bit of time in prison just to understand that your freedom is important to you and so is Lee-Anne's to her. But they didn't get that. T: When you saw the videos, not only did you see the mistreatment of Lee-Anne, but you saw the staff, you saw the culture of those staff members, their attitude, their resentment. How can people like that work in a care industry? LE: They should never, ever be allowed to work with vulnerable people again. But right now there's no guarantee of that. All three abusers were sacked and temporarily banned by the NDIS watchdog from working in the disability sector. Incredibly two of the women will be allowed to return later this year, the third next year. But they could be in for a shock. Minister for the National Disability Insurance Scheme of Australia Bill Shorten, is furious. Shorten: I've asked the disability watchdog to look at banning them from life from the NDIS. I don't want 'em anywhere near this scheme. They've failed fundamentally the code and the standards which you expect of people. T: You saying that, does that mean it happens automatically? Shorten: The disability watchdog is independent, but when I put my mind to something, I'll make it happen. I'll do everything I can within my power. I've spoken to Lorraine and Robert and I think that everyone owes Lee-Anne at least that much to make sure that these people are banned for life from the NDIS. T: We're talking about the workers here very heavily but what about the management? Shorten: The workforce should've been supervised. Scope should've done a better job. The impact of the abuse on Lee-Anne is ongoing. She's been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder and there are days she just can't face. L: She often asks me, 'Mum, I wanna die. I can't cope with this any more.' And some days I just wish I could drive and keep going, because if things don't improve I don't know how I can keep watching her suffer and not do anything about it. T: So you- when you say you sometimes feel like just driving- L: Yep, just driving and driving. T: You and her? L: Yeah. T: So, you're imagining ending your lives? L: Yeah, I have. T: It's a big thing to admit on national television that you think about taking your life, and your daughter's life. L: Yeah. The last six years it's just been a nightmare R: And I'm, honestly, I just don't know what will happen to our daughter when we're gone. T: Can I tell you what Lorraine says what she really wants. She wants people to actually do what they say they will do. She's heard these things before. You know them. They want to protect their daughter. LE: Of Course. That's what they kept getting told their daughter would be looked after she'd be safe, she'd be protected. All she wants is someone like you to do what you promised to do. It's not that big an ask, is it? LE: It's not. I've given Lorraine and Bob and Lee-Anne my word and I stand by that, Tara, we will make this better for them and for Lee-Anne and for every other client that uses our services. What happened to Lee-Anne can never happen again. We deeply regret it and I'm genuinely and sincerely sorry that it happened. Lee-Anne has much to live for, whether it's meeting her beloved Brisbane Lions heroes or knowing, despite her suffering she has made a huge difference. Something her parents remind her of, in her darkest moments. R: She has indicated several times over the years. She's had enough. She keeps looking up to heaven. She wants to go with Nana. L: We say to her, 'You've got too much to teach people. You're to stay.' R: Yep, that's what I said to her. And I say that more than once, 'No, He's not gonna let you come in yet. You've got a job to do down here.' 'You have to make people aware of what goes on. That's why He wants you here.' Yeah. T: And you, too. L: Me, too, yeah. [TICK TICK TICK] If this story has raised issues and you need to speak with someone call Lifeline on thirteen, eleven, fourteen (13 11 14).