Intro Imagine standing atop the highest peak on feet (8,848.9 meters) or diving into the abyss of the Mariana Trench meters). As humans, we've conquered the most towering But there are places on our planet that are extremes. Places so remote, so hidden, that they challenge The Earth's surface spans 196.9 million square on this vast planet there are places that or the Mariana's dark depths. Are you ready for a journey to the most inaccessible Getting around the planet is easier and faster the past. We have passenger aircraft that can fly hundreds travel across oceans in a little over a week, wherever they want to go as long as there if there aren't. History We don't need to go too far back in time Ships have been around for tens of thousands that ocean liners crossed the Atlantic. On January 29, 1886, Carl Benz applied for engine," meaning the first automobile was On December 17, 1903, the Wright Brothers Carolina. We have obviously come a long way since all regardless of how advanced technology has Earth that are extremely difficult to reach. Humans are born explorers. Our species evolved in Africa and migrated than 200,000 years. This may make it sound like it took a long traveled almost entirely by foot and small There were no trains, planes, or domesticated by around 12,000 B.C., humans had spread to With all the technology we have today, getting But just because you may be able to see remote online, getting to some of these places is So let's take a trip to some of the world's Places so remote that reaching them requires places where even time seems to stand still. Prepare for a journey where weeks might pass the road less traveled truly exists. Are you ready for a true adventure? 1. Place - Tristan da Cunha Let's start by going to Tristan da Cunha. These are a group of volcanic islands that These islands have a population of just 235 regularly travel to the island to bring mail, The ships leave once a month from Cape Town, miles (2,788 kilometers) east of Tristan da The voyage between Cape Town and Edinburgh the island, takes about 6 days, but since likely need to remain there for at least several Cape Town. Tristan da Cunha is technically a British has very little contact with the British government Once you are on the volcanic island, there The rugged terrain and sharp volcanic rocks St. Mary's Peak is the highest point on climbing up the side of Tristan da Cunha Volcano If your goal was to reach St. Mary's Peak, a boat that leaves for Edinburgh of the Seven of the Atlantic Ocean for 7 or more days depending board a public bus to the potato fields or of one of the very few roads on the island, Then you'd have to do the same thing in likely take at least two months. It may seem unbelievable, but although St. difficult place to get to, it is not even So what could be tougher than scaling a volcano Let's head to the desert and find out. 2. Place - Sahara Desert To qualify as a desert, an area has to receive a year. This often results in the amount of evaporation leading to vast, sandy expanses. Like you'll find in the Sahara Desert. The Sahara Desert is approximately 3,320,000 Getting to the Sahara itself isn't that of ten countries in North Africa. If you were to travel to Nouakchott, the capital in Mali; Agadez in Niger; Ghat in Libya; and Sahara Desert, so getting there would be relatively But if you wanted to travel to the middle altogether. It's hard to define exactly where the exact purposes, let's define it as the spot where There are no population centers, villages, you get there? Your journey begins with a flight to Ghat its reality, since in reality it's little This is the closest airport to our destination, difficulties, since it requires the aid of Libya, and according to some reports, may So instead you'll be flying into Sebha International located in Libya, but over 340 miles (550 Unsurprisingly, the capitals of Niger, Algeria, are about as far away from the middle of the or a major source of water. Once you manage to get into the general vicinity You'll need an all-terrain vehicle or dirt 101 miles (163 km) away. And you better hope your rental car has AC, as high as a scorching 122deg Fahrenheit (50deg There are no sources of water on your route, you to wander off into the desert, and if no major landmarks to help guide you or cell really get into trouble. So getting lost in this barren landscape isn't But while dangerous, the logistics of your conceivable for an average person. So now let's look at some places where it out how to get there. 3. Place - Gakkel Ridge (Arctic Ocean) Beneath the chilling Arctic waves, shrouded Positioned between Greenland and Siberia, ridge in the world and reaches depths of up If you thought the top of the world was hard Just reaching this geological marvel is a explorers. It requires a specially designed vessel that treacherous Arctic waters. Ships with these kinds of capabilities are are a scientist assigned to study the Gakkel an expedition yourself, reaching this geologic But let's say you managed to charter a special Once you reached the area by boat, you would the Arctic Ocean via submersible to reach The Gakkel Ridge is approximately 1,100 miles 12,467 feet (3,800 meters) from the ocean (500 meters) deep. The logistics of getting a ship into position, of the ridge, and then continuing down another by the pressure would make journeying down than many others. 4. Place - Mariana Trench (Pacific Ocean) But there is another part of the ocean that The aforementioned Mariana Trench lies in as the Challenger Deep is the deepest known The entire Mariana Trench is a little more average width of 43 miles (69 km). This makes the underwater mountain range longer (2,400 kilometers) long. In fact, if you put Mount Everest at the bottom be around 7,000 feet (2,133 meters) below Getting to the waters above Challenger Deep Ridge. You would first fly to the island of Guam, or any number of other countries in Asia. From Tokyo alone, there are around 4 direct Once in Guam, you would take a ship southwest You would then be sitting right above the But the easy part is over, and if you truly you would need some very specialized equipment. There are actually three different "pools" Central, and Eastern pools. Each of these is over 35,761 feet (10,900 reach the bottom of of one of these pools 35,000 feet of water pushing down on it, which per square inch. Don Walsh and Jacques Piccard accomplished Deep in 1960. They remained the only two humans to ever until 2012, when filmmaker and explorer James bottom of the Challenger Deep. In 2019 a deep-submergence vehicle called at the trench, and as of November 2022, twenty-two Deep, 19 of which were done by Limiting Factor. The only other limiting factor that is keeping of the planet is the cost of doing so. While getting to the surface waters above is actually pretty simple, it's those last of the ocean in this part of the world one Geography / Transition into next place After going down to the deepest point on earth, the planet to be next, but this is not the Mount Everest's very name alone conjures and the ultimate conquest over the Earth's But is it still the uncharted frontier it While difficult to summit due to its thin have reached its peak. And for those with the financial means and not only possible but getting easier all the All you have to do at this point is stand not just your life but the life of your guide But Everest's story takes a darker turn. Once a symbol of human triumph over nature, adventure that lures thousands to its slopes The melting snow, once pristine and pure, sources of villages around the mountain. Corpses are left on the icy slopes until they fixture, a grim marker for future climbers. The allure of Everest remains, but it may places you shouldn't go for ethical reasons But whether we're going to the very top locations so far have been places people have So what about parts of the Earth that are If we are discussing the most difficult places about the places no one has ever been and Reaching the depths of the ocean like the with all kinds of complications, but this More than 70% of the surface of Earth is made lot left of it to explore. We know relatively little about the ocean below the photic zone, which is the area where the water. It is the sheer size and depths of the ocean places in the world. But what about the land? Are there any places on the surface of the Surprisingly, yes. As we mentioned, Mount Everest has the highest sits around 5.49 miles (8.84 kilometers) above But there are a couple of other mountains been summited, making them some of the most However, before we explore these locations, Although the peak of Mount Everest is the it is not technically the tallest mountain. You might be surprised to learn that honor middle of the Pacific Ocean. 5. Place - Mauna Kea Mauna Kea is a volcano on the Big Island of Though it stands at only 13,796 feet (4,205 the waves. Extending nearly 20,000 feet below the ocean's to peak is around 33,500 feet (10,210 meters), But unlike Everest, if you wanted to hike in the world, you wouldn't need to risk of the Himalayas, or wear an oxygen mask. Instead, you could book a flight to Hawaii, at your hotel in time for dinner. But you don't want a vacation, you're You want to reach a place on the surface of to before. So let's head from Hawaii to Southern Asia. 6. Place - Gangkhar Puensum Gangkhar Puensum is the highest mountain in border. Its highest peak is 24,836 feet (7,570 meters) shorter than Mount Everest. But just because it is shorter doesn't mean In fact, Gangkhar Puensum has never been summited There have been at least four serious attempts for these mountaineers, all of the expeditions impossible sections, and intense frostbite. In 2003, the government of Bhutan passed a country, so while people can still hike along to summit high altitude peaks. Therefore, it would be illegal to attempt which is definitely another reason besides mountain is one of the most difficult places it will retain its title of tallest mountain some time. 7. Place - Muchu Chhish Then there is Muchu Chhish. This mountain is 24,452 feet (7,453 meters) Puensum, but perhaps even more difficult to A large part of that is because it is part the most disputed regions of the planet. Pakistan, China, and India all claim that territories, but due to the ruggedness of This means there are a number of factors standing an assent of Muchu Chhish. So while getting there is next to impossible, The path to the top is a labyrinth of snow a landscape that seems almost designed to If that wasn't bad enough, one of the largest in the Karakoram mountain range and makes Multiple attempts have been made to climb turned back, primarily due to bad weather. The mountain's very inaccessibility and insurmountable of the unattainable. The tallest mountain that can legally be climbed it poses are so significant that humans may Mountains don't serve as the only difficult Beneath the surface of the Earth lie cave as the tallest mountains. Spelunkers who descend into the depths of sometimes exceed, those found on the highest 8. Place - Veryovkina Cave Hidden under the rugged landscapes of the the world as part of Georgia, are the deepest And within these, perhaps the most difficult Cave, which as far as we know, descends 7,257 planet. To put that into perspective, that's approximately It is like climbing Mount Everest in reverse, dangerous. Adventurers have been exploring Veryovkina 2018 that Moscow-based speleological clubs Doing so took them about a week and as you One team nearly drowned when the cave began but thankfully, everyone survived. But while Veryovkina Cave holds the record know how deep it goes, which is true of many The entrance to Veryovkina Cave sits between Just getting to the vertical shaft that leads there, things get even harder. Descending into this cave requires very specific maybe even a little stupidity. The risks are high, an estimated 3 people and within these underground chambers, darkness and thick you could almost touch it. There are few places on our planet where you within these caves, you can't escape it. There are undoubtedly countless cave systems even be deeper than Veryovkina Cave. And the reality is that the very deepest may extremely difficult or in some cases, impossible As mentioned before, after early humans left eventually reached every continent except we would. 9. Place - Antarctica Antarctica was the last continent on Earth early 1800s. At the time, many explorers actually believed Australis Incognita or the "unknown southern However, no one had been able to prove it to confirm the existence of land at the southernmost Early explorers ran into trouble when large their ships and cause immense damage. It was dangerous looking for this unknown push the envelope. As global competition to claim more territory States all sent ships to the frigid waters and claim it as their own. On January 27, 1820, Russia Captain Fabian that was likely an ice shelf attached to what Three days later, a British naval officer tip of what we know today as the Antarctic An American sealer and explorer named John human to actually step foot on Antarctica, and there are doubts about whether he actually However, standing on the edge of Antarctica landscape to reach unknown parts of the frozen Now that everyone knew where Antarctica was to find the south pole. On December 14, 1911, Norwegian explorer Roald Pole" competition, finally reached the southern back. But today, Antarctica hasn't just been visited, Most are scientists doing research, but currently, on the continent. It is estimated there are approximately 10,000 during the summer months and around 1,000 To be fair, Antarctica is no longer that hard that travel there to deliver supplies and However, there are still parts of the landscape areas remain that have never been walked on Mount Sidley is the tallest volcano in Antarctica Unlike Gangkhar Puensum and Muchu Chhish, that it rests around 200 miles from the coast the ice caps or take a specialized aircraft Then using specialized gear, mountaineers and back down again without slipping and falling In January of 1990, New Zealander Bill Atkinson working with a United States Antarctic Program Since then, around 10 expeditions have been remains one of the hardest places in the world dangerous mountain, but because it is in one planet. A massive amount of Antarctica has yet to be. There is a reason most research is conducted During the winter, the temperatures range on the coast and -40 to -94degF (-40 However, satellites have detected temperatures frozen continent. Luckily there are no polar bears in the Antarctic, of our planet. However, there are an estimated 5 million the human scientists there by about 500 to Getting to Antarctica can be expensive, and landscape, but it is still possible to get There are, though, places on planet Earth hard they try or how much technology advances. So once again, let's head back to Hawaii. These islands might be paradise to visit, inhospitable places on the entire planet. 10. Place - Kilauea The Big Island of Hawaii has not one, but Loa, holds the title of the world's most active However, scientists believe that its nearby hottest volcano on Earth. Temperatures of the magma inside of Kilauea degrees Celsius). This is hot enough to melt pretty much anything Theoretically, a vessel made out of pure Tungsten point of all metals at 6,191degF (3,422degC). But there would have to be zero impurities everything inside would be incinerated. If there is one place you can't go on planet it's inside a volcano. Although there is still one other place that and it is not for the reasons that you might 11. Place - Sandy Island According to many world maps and even Google spit of land between Australia and the French This might seem like a nice area to travel to reach by boat, but no matter how hard you this island. And that's because... it doesn't exist. That's right, even though you can find it Scientists from the University of Sydney noticed maps, charts, and even Google Maps, but they even seen it. So, they set out to find out what was going When the scientists got to the exact coordinates blue waters of the Coral Sea. The scientists did some further investigating there, Sandy Island appeared on maps and publications The scientists were baffled and had no explanation really existed. Australia's Hydrographic Service, which charts and maps, suggested the mysterious human error that was copied onto document So, if you are looking to get to Sandy Island, will find there is 4,620 feet (1,400 meters) Final Conclusion It is worth noting that although Sandy Island the world that will become extremely difficult climate change. Scientists have found that emissions and pollution of about 2 degrees Fahrenheit (1.1 degrees that by 2050 the global average temperatures than they would have been without human-caused This may not seem like a lot, but we have increases, which include the Arctic, Antarctic, As temperatures increase, more snow and ice the waters of the oceans will actually expand All of this will result in sea levels rising the next 30 years. Many islands, some of which are currently Marshal Islands, will be underwater. This means that the only way to visit them the waves of the sea. So, due to human-caused climate change, locations more difficult to get to in the future. But even after remote islands have been covered earth and mountains reach thousands of feet remain the one location on earth that is truly