- Hi it's me, Tim Dodd, I'm here at SpaceX's in Boca Chica, Texas to check out the holy and that SpaceX's upcoming Raptor engine. An engine like this has on a rocket before. Now this is a methane powered full flow staged combustion cycle engine. Talking about a rocket can be really intimidating. And in order to put it into and other engine cycles we're gonna do a full versus a bunch of other engines including SpaceX's current workhorse the Merlin engine against the RS-25, the space shuttle main engine. the F-1 engine that powered the Saturn 5. The RD-180 and Blue Origin's BE-4 And as if the full flow wasn't enough, SpaceX is also They're powering that and that's something that's on an orbital class rocket. So we're gonna take a look at and see if we can figure out why SpaceX chose methane instead of any other common propellant. Now this engine isn't It's not the most powerful. It's not the highest thrust It's not even the most efficient but it does a lot of So by the end of this video hopefully we have all why the Raptor engine is special how it compares to other rockets why it's using liquid methane and then hopefully we'll the king of rocket engines. Let's get started. (electronic music) - [Voice over] Three, two, - In case you didn't notice this is a very, very long video. Sorry, not sorry, but if you're anything like me you keep hearing a lot of and you want to appreciate it but you don't even know where to start. Well, I've spent quite a on the subject so I can in order to help us really the Raptor engine. Well, and quite frankly And if you're anything like me maybe you've stared at or like this one for hours until you feel like your So in order to avoid that I've actually whipped up of rocket engine cycles which will hopefully help us But in case this isn't your first rodeo here's the timestamps if you want to jump to a certain section. There's also links in the as well as an article at my website, Everydayastronaut.com in case you want to a little more in depth or see sources of some of the material. Now we're gonna start off with but bear with me. We're gonna dive in and get Okay. Let's start off with this. Rockets are basically just propellant with some skin around and they have a thing on the back that can throw said and to way oversimplify it even more, the faster you can throw Now the easiest way to do this is by storing all the under really high on one end of the tank and a propelling nozzle that into workable thrust. Done. No crazy pumps or complicated systems just open a valve and let her rip. This is called a pressure and there's a few main types: cold gas, monoprop and You'll often find these used because they're simple, But pressure fed engines Pressure always flows from high to low so the engine can never be higher pressure than the propellant tanks. In order to store propellant your tanks will need to be strong and therefore thicker, and thicker, and heavier, and heavier. Look at composite overwrapped They're capable of storing or 700 bar. And despite this there's still a limited amount of propellant and pressure they can store. And this does not scale up very well when you're trying to So smart rocket scientists in order to make the rocket there's really only one increase the enthalpy. That would be a great metal band name. You're welcome Internet. Enthalpy is basically the relationship between volume pressure and temperature. A higher pressure and temperature inside the combustion chamber and more mass shoved equals more thrust. So in order to shove more you could either increase or just shoot the propellant with a really high powered pump. The second option sounds But pumps moving hundreds require a lot, and boy do I mean, a lot of energy to power them. So what if you took a tiny rocket engine, and aimed it right a turbine to spin it up really, really fast? You can exchange some of chemical energy for kinetic energy which could then be used to Welcome to turbo pumps and the staged combustion cycle. But you've still got some like how high pressure always and how heat has that So you've got to keep while trying to squeeze every bit of power out of your engine. There's actually a lot of the cycles that we could talk about but I'm going to stick or at least the three that matter the most when putting the Raptor into context. We have the gas generator cycle the partial flow staged combustion cycle and lastly we'll look at the full flow staged combustion cycle and perhaps in a future video I'll try and do a full rundown of all liquid fueled rocket engines including fun new alternatives like the electric pump fed engine seen on Rocket Lab's Electron rocket. (slow music) Let's start with the gas generator cycle known as the open cycle. This is probably one of of liquid fueled rocket engine It's definitely more complicated than a pressure fed system well at least compared to their Now I'm gonna way, way oversimplify this so it's as easy to grasp In real life, there's a hive of wires, and extra tiny little pipes everywhere, helium to back pressure the tanks fuel flowing through the nozzle and the combustion chamber to cool it and there is an ignition and the combustion chamber. But again for the purpose and as digestible as possible, just know there's a lot of stuff missing from these diagrams. But for now we're going to focus on the flow of these engines so we can grasp that concept first. The gas generator cycle works by pumping the fuel and oxidizer into using a turbo pump. The turbo pump has a few main parts a mini rocket engine called the preburner, a turbine connected to a shaft and then a pump or two into the combustion chamber. Now you might hear the turbo pump assembly called the power pack because it really is what powers the engine. In the open cycle system, the spent propellant from the preburner is simply dumped overboard and does not contribute This makes it less and oxidizer used to spin the Now the funny thing about a turbo pump is that it kind of has a chicken and egg syndrome situation that makes it pretty difficult to start up since the preburner that needs high pressure fuel So the preburner requires before it can get up to full but the turbo pumps need in order to spin the turbo pumps. But the preburner needs Yeah. You can see where this is going. This makes starting a gas There's a few ways to do this but we don't need to get That sounds like a fun topic So back to the turbo pumps. Remember pressure always so the turbo pumps need than the chamber pressure. And this means the inlets is actually the highest pressure point in the entire rocket engine. Everything else downstream but notice something here. Take a look at SpaceX's Merlin engine which runs on RP-1 or rocket propellant 1 and liquid oxygen. Notice how black the smoke is coming out of the preburner exhaust. Why would it be so sooty compared to the main combustion chamber which leaves almost no visible exhaust? Well that's because rocket propellant can get super hot like thousands and thousands of degrees Celsius. So to make sure the that it melts the turbine and the entire turbo pump assembly, they need to make sure it's cool enough to continually operate. Running at the perfect fuel and oxidizer ratio is the most efficient and releases the most energy but it also produces a So in order to keep the temperatures low you can run the preburner at So either too much fuel known as fuel rich or too much oxidizer or oxygen rich. Running an RP-1 engine fuel rich means you'll see some unburned fuel appearing as dark clouds of soot. the highly pressurized and form polymers which is This soot starts to stick and can block injectors or even do damage to the turbine itself. So what if you didn't want to waste all that highly pressurized propellant? I mean after all since it's running cooler by being fuel rich doesn't that mean there's a bunch of unburned What if you could just and put it into the combustion chamber? Welcome to the closed cycle. The closed cycle or increases engine efficiency by using what would normally be lost exhausts and connects it to the combustion chamber to help increase pressure and also increase efficiency. So let's take the Merlin engine and try closing the loop. Let's take the exhaust and just pipe it straight Uh-oh, oh no! We just put a bunch of soot You do not go to space today my friend. But there's a few so let's see how the Soviets solved it. The first operational closed was the NK-15 design for They later upgraded it to the NK-33 and then many versions including the RD-180 which is what is used Since the NK-15 and NK-33 you can't run your preburners fuel rich because of the coking problem. So if you want to create a the answer is running the Easy as that, right? Well now you're blasting superheated highly pressurized gaseous oxygen which will turn just right at your precision machine crazy low tolerance turbine blade. Doing so is actually considered impossible by the United States, and they basically gave up on trying. They didn't think a metal alloy existed that could withstand these and they didn't believe the Soviets had made such an efficient and powerful RP-1-powered engine until after the collapse and the US engineers got to see them and test them out firsthand. But the Soviets had indeed and they had made a special with science withstand of an oxygen rich preburner. With a closed cycle engine, you don't just use some and burn that in the You actually shoot all through the turbine. So with an oxygen rich cycle all of the oxygen actually and just the right amount of You only need enough to give the turbine the right amount of energy to get the right pressures and the combustion chamber to make the right amount of power to shoot the thing into space. Just crazy. So back to this oxygen rich preburner. That now hot gaseous oxygen is forced into the combustion chamber They meet and go boom and we get a nice clean and efficient burn without really wasting any propellant. But still like all engines can not be higher than the pump pressure so the pumps actually have a lot of weight on their tiny little metal shoulders. Now if you're sitting there thinking that the United States just sat back and let the Soviets have you'd be wrong. It took the United States but they eventually figured But it was very different The United States pursued but they went with a fuel rich preburner. But wait, we just learned exhaust is so sooty that it pretty much ruins anything, right? Well sure if you're using RP-1 or any other carbon heavy fuel that's definitely going to be the outcome. So the United States went with Okay, so now we've avoided the problem of blasting crazy hot high pressure oxygen at anything dear and precious but now we've opened Hydrogen is significantly or liquid oxygen. It's so much less dense, it takes a huge and to flow the right amount of hydrogen into the combustion chamber. Since RP-1 and LOX are and in the ratios they can using a single preburner. Because of this the pursued an engine known as the RS-25 which would go on to They realized that because between the pumps they might as well have two different preburners, one for the hydrogen pump and one for the oxygen pump. So that's what they did. But having two separate shafts Now engineers were putting high pressure hot gaseous hydrogen on the same shaft right next door to the liquid oxygen pump. If some of that hydrogen would it would start a fire in the LOX pump which is catastrophically bad. Hydrogen is also very hard to contain because it's so not dense, it likes to sneak through cracks and get out anywhere it can. So engineers had to make an elaborate seal to keep the hot hydrogen The seal required for this and it's actually pressurized by helium so that it's the highest So if the seal leaks it It's genius but take a look at how different the LOX turbo pump and the hydrogen turbo pump seals look. You can tell how much and effort had to go I mean the people that think The RS-25 is still considered to be about the best engine ever made with a fairly high thrust to weight ratio and unmatched efficiency. Okay now that we've talked all about the dual preburner fuel rich RS-25, here's a simplified diagram of that. Now I didn't bother making and I just want to focus on the flow here and help make that as simple as possible. But do note both preburners so although they might look the same they power different pumps and I'll just let this so you can study it for a bit but don't worry we'll also at the same time once we cover them all. So the closed cycle improves the overall performance of the engine and is highly advantageous. So how can it get any better than this? We're finally ready to talk about the full flow staged combustion cycle which basically just combines we just talked about. With the full flow you take two preburners and one that runs oxygen rich. The fuel rich preburner and the oxygen rich preburner This means the full flow needs to tackle the oxygen rich problems which again is solved by developing very strong metal alloys. So SpaceX developed their that they named SX500. According to Elon Musk it's of hot oxygen rich gas. That may have been one in developing the Raptor engine. Luckily the fuel rich side only pumps fuel so if some of that hot on the shaft it just comes which is kind of no big deal. So no need for one of those Full flow likely wouldn't work with RP-1 due to the coking problems but other fuels are still But more on that in a minute. The advantage of the system and the oxidizer arrive as a hot gas there's better combustion and hotter temperatures can be achieved. There's also less of a need as we mentioned earlier and that's definitely a good thing when you plan to reuse your engine over and over with little between flights. And lastly because there's an or how quickly all the propellant is shooting into the preburner the turbines can run cooler and at lower pressures because the ratio of to spin the turbo pumps is much lower. And think of it this way in an open cycle you only want to use as little fuel and oxidizer as possible in the preburner since it's all wasted and you want it to be to make it more efficient but with the full flow and all of the oxidizer so you can burn just exactly to power the turbo pumps. But the cool thing is your will be so crazy fuel rich and crazy oxygen rich that the temperatures at the and this means longer lifespans It also means more combustion happens in the combustion chamber and less in the preburner. Now here's the crazy part. Only three engines have demonstrated the full flow staged In the 60s the Soviets developed an engine called the RD-270 which never flew and in the early 2000s worked on an integrated wait for it, the Integrated which again never made And the third attempt to developing a full flow staged combustion cycle engine is SpaceX's Raptor engine. Ta-da, that's right. The Raptor engine is at making this crazy type of engine. It's the first to ever do any type of work and leave a test stand and fingers crossed, it'll be the first full flow to reach orbit. Well actually just about will be a first. This means SpaceX had to tackle I mean not only that oxidizer rich cycles like having to have a really They also had to learn how to control two different preburners and two different cycles to create the highest pressures of any chamber pressure ever. They just beat the RD-180's when they hit 270 bar and they're not even done. They're hoping for 300 bar That's nuts and we'll talk but before we move on now on all these engines cycle types let's put them all up on screen and let them run for a bit and compare them side by side. I know for myself it helps a lot to see them all together at the same time. (slow music) Since the Raptor engine can't run a fuel rich preburner using RP-1, you'd think the next most Well SpaceX didn't opt for They went with liquid methane. So now we finally have Why did SpaceX choose liquid methane for the Raptor engine? What are the qualities over hydrogen or RP-1? (dramatic music) Today no liquid methane or otherwise known as methylox engine has gone to orbit. So what qualities does it Let's take a look at methane compared to RP-1 and hydrogen. Let's put methane in You'll see why here really quickly. So let's start off with when designing your first stage, the density of the propellant. Having a denser fuel means and lighter for a given mass of fuel. A smaller tank equals a lighter rocket. So here's the density of these three fuels measured in grams per liter. In other words how much does or really what's its mass. Starting off with RP-1, one RP-1 is 11 times more dense than hydrogen which is only 70 grams per liter and methylox is right in the Remember how airships or zeppelins used to be filled with hydrogen to make them lighter than air? Well, that's because hydrogen is so much less dense in our atmosphere it makes for an excellent albeit really flammable gas for a balloon. I mean we all remember It should also be noted is an average for RP-1 but SpaceX chills their and Falcon Heavy for about a But historically RP-1's density is right around that 813 grams per liter. So in the case of density methane is kind of right in but there's more to it than just density. We also need to take into consideration the ratio of how much fuel is burned compared to how much oxidizer is burned. This is the oxidizer to fuel ratio. So here's where things get and the tables turn just a little bit. Rocket engineers have to take into account the mass of the fuel and the corresponding weight of the tanks so they don't actually burn propellant at the perfect stoichiometric They find the perfect happy medium that balances tank size with thrust output and specific impulse. Let's look at the mass ratios for fuel and oxidizer that the So for these numbers RP-1 is to one gram of RP-one. Hydrogen burns at 6 grams of and methane burns at 3.7 grams of oxygen to one gram of methane. These numbers can now help offset a little the massive difference in density. So let's visualize this to Liquid oxygen is 1141 grams per liter. It's a little more dense than RP-1. So burning LOX and RP-1 for every liter of LOX you'd need a little over half a liter of RP-1. Next up let's do hydrogen. Now with hydrogen being 11 you'd think it'd need a But luckily engineers have and hydrogen at a 6 to 1 This means for each liter of LOX you'd need 2.7 liters of hydrogen so your fuel tank needs five times larger compared to RP-1. So yeah that helps. That's why when we look at versus an RP-1 powered Falcon 9 you can see the fuel tank is on the Falcon 9 but the Delta The LOX tank is much So now let's take a look at methane. And this one gets kind of interesting. LOX is 2.7 times more but the burn ratio is 3.7 grams of oxygen to one gram of methane. So you need 0.73 liters of In other words your fuel tank would need to be about than it would need to be for RP-1 despite RP-1 actually and compared to hydrogen its fuel tank would be So the fuel to oxidizer ratio helps make a methane fuel tank than it is to a hydrogen tank. Another huge variable is how efficient it is. This is measured in but you can think of it kind of like a fuel economy So a high specific to a high mile per gallon The best way to think of specific impulse is to imagine you had one for how many seconds can the engine push with 9.8 newtons of force. The longer it can sip on that fuel while still pushing that hard the higher its specific impulse and therefore the more work it can do with the same amount of fuel. So again kind of like its fuel economy. So the higher the specific impulse the less fuel it takes to which is a good thing. A fuel efficient engine and now due to the and their energy released when burned there's a different potential for how quickly the out the nozzle. This means each fuel has a different theoretical specific impulse. In ideal and perfect world could achieve about 370 seconds. An ideal hydrogen powered and guess what? A methane powered engine with 459 seconds. Real world examples of this are much lower with RP-1 engine seeing around 350 seconds like the Merlin 1D Vacuum run 380 seconds for a methane powered engine like the Raptor vacuum might be someday and about 465 seconds for like the RL-10B-2. Next, let's talk about A fuel that burns cooler and potentially makes RP-1 can burn up to 3670 Kelvin, hydrogen 3070 Kelvin, and if you haven't guessed it by now, methane is again between Speaking of thermal considerations let's look at the boiling or at what point does and turn into a gas. Since all of these fuels need to remain in their liquid state the higher the temperature the easier it is to store the fuel. A higher boiling point also means less or even no insulation on the tanks to keep the propellant from boiling off. And of course less insulation RB1 has a very high boiling point even higher than water at 490 Kelvin. Hydrogen on the other at a crazy cold 20 Kelvin. That's insanely cold and it to keep anything at that temperature and like the Goldilocks it is methane is between the two at 111 Kelvin which although that's still very cold and requires thermal considerations it at least boils off at a so there is that and because it's so close the tanks can share a common dome which makes the vehicle lighter. LOX and hydrogen's that LOX will boil off hydrogen and the hydrogen will freeze LOX solid. Now, on to the exhausts. What are the byproducts of RP-1 is really the only one of these three that really pollutes being left in our atmosphere but hydrogen only produces water vapor and methane produces some carbon dioxide and water vapor as well. But an interesting note as far as greenhouse gases go, water in the upper but I'll be doing a video in the future all about how much rockets pollute talking about their air pollution, also their ocean pollution and even space debris is a consideration. So stand by because I think that video is going to be awesome. Now one metric that we're just kind of going to gloss over really quick and talk about it generally is the cost. And these tend to vary considerably and it's actually really hard to pin down the exact prices reliably. So for the considerations RP-1 is basically just a which jet fuel is a which kerosene is a highly refined diesel. So it's safe to assume it's going to be more expensive than diesel. Hydrogen is also relatively expensive despite being abundant. Refining it storing it and transporting it can be hard but methane on the other hand as natural gas and can Now when you're talking about the fuel costs can add up quickly so although the cost of fuel it certainly is a consideration but without hard data on this one I don't even want to put it on our chart. So instead let's talk about the more important aspect of the fuel that's manufacturing it. And here's where we get into specifically why SpaceX sees methane as an important or even a necessary part SpaceX's ultimate goals capable of taking humans over and over. The Martian atmosphere is CO2 rich. Now combine that with water and subsurface water on Mars through electrolysis the Martian atmosphere can so you don't have to take to get home with you. You can make it right there This is called in situ Now you might be thinking, &quot;Well, if there is water on the surface of Mars for your fuel?&quot; Well, yes but one of the and long duration missions is Remember, it takes serious considerations to maintain hydrogen in a liquid state and that's necessary so for SpaceX methane It's fairly dense meaning the rocket sizes are pretty reasonable. It's fairly efficient, it burns clean and it makes for a highly reusable engine. It burns relatively cool helping expand the lifespan of an engine which again is good for usability. It's cheap and easy to produce and can be easily reproduced (slow music) Okay. Yeah. We finally made it this far. and now that we have a strong grasp of how different engine cycles operate and the fuels they use we can finally line and compare their metrics to help us appreciate So now we're going to lineup each engine by their fuel type and their cycles. So let's start off with SpaceX's open cycle Merlin engine and Falcon Heavy rockets. NPO Energomash's oxygen rich closed cycle RD-180 that we see power the Atlas 5 rocket and Rocketdyne's open cycle F-1 that powers a Saturn 5 which all three of these Then we have SpaceX's full flow staged combustion cycle Raptor engine that will power the Starship and then we have Blue oxygen rich methane powered BE-4 engine that will power their New Glenn rocket and ULA's upcoming Vulcan rocket and then we have Aerojet fuel rich RS-25 engine that and will power the upcoming SLS rocket which runs on hydrogen. A few quick notes here. The Raptor and the BE-4 as are still in development are either their current state of progress like the Raptor which literally every day and in the case of the BE-4, those are the target goals for the engine which Blue Origin has yet to hit. So just keep that in are definitely subject to change and now because of this with the article version attached in the description of this video. This video will likely date itself with some of these numbers and I can't update this video but I can update the website So if you're looking to use any please, please, please for any updates. Another fun note quick Now don't be confused. This is a single engine it just has two combustion chambers. There's only a single turbo pump that splits its power into The Soviet Union was able to solve the crazy hot oxygen but they were unable to of large engines. So instead of one large combustion chamber they made multiple small ones. So first up let's take a look at their total Since all these engines run at sea level that's probably a fair Let's go from the least amount of thrust to the most for fun. The Merlin produces 0.84 The RS-25 produces 1.86 meganewtons. The Raptor currently is at 2 meganewtons. The BE-4 is hoping to hit 2.4 meganewtons. The RD-180 3.83 meganewtons and the F-1 is still the king out of these at 6.77 meganewtons. Now there was an engine called the RD-170 which actually produced but since it barely flew I figured it wasn't as I thought it'd probably a that have actually been used a lot. Thrust is great but what's when designing rocket is or how heavy the engine is compared to how much thrust it produces. A higher thrust to weight ratio engine ultimately means less dead weight the rocket needs to lug around. Let's start from the The lowest is actually the Then there is the RD-180 which is 78 to 1. Then we have the BE-4 keep in mind we don't actually have a really good number on this. So there might be some wiggle room there. Then the F-1 is 94 to 1, then we have the Raptor which And lastly the Merlin is with an astonishing 198 to Yeah, that thing is a powerhouse. Okay. Thrust is great and all but who cares how powerful an engine is if it's terribly inefficient. So next up let's check which again is measured in seconds. So starting with the which is the F-1 engine then the Merlin engine Then we get the RD-180 at and somewhere in that which is around 310 to 340 seconds. Next up is the Raptor engine which is 330 seconds and lastly the king which is 366 to 452 seconds. Wow. Now one of the factors and specific impulse is chamber pressure. Now generally the higher the chamber and potentially more so higher chamber pressures let an engine be smaller also improving their The baby here is actually the F-1 which only had 70 bar in Now, I do need to pause here for a second and remind you that 70 the atmospheric pressure or you'd experience at 700 meters underwater. Yikes. Okay so even the lowest chamber pressure is still mind-bogglingly high. So next up is the Merlin engine at 97 bar then the BE-4 then the RS-25 which is 206 bar then the RD-180 which has been considered the king of operational that is until the Raptor engine which is now kind of online which is considered the new at 270 bars currently and up to 300 bar. Again, 300 bar is like being three kilometers deep in the ocean. I can't even fathom. Okay, that's enough of the Now, let's look at their starting with their approximate cost. Now again this can be so these are the best estimates that I could come up with. These numbers do factor in inflation to make them all in Let's go with the most expensive, and work our way down to The most expensive engine which has a sticker price of Yikes. Then we have the F-1 which was then the RD-180 which is then the BE-4 which is and for the Raptor Elan has mentioned he thinks he can produce or close to the Merlin engine if they can remove a lot of the complexity that the current engine has. So for now we're gonna say $2 million is a pretty decent ballpark. Then we have the Merlin engine which is less than a million I think. Okay, well cost is one thing but another strong consideration is whether or not it's reusable. And here only the RD-180 and or at least never reused which is different than which will all be reused multiple times. The RS-25 was reused over and over with the record being 19 Well then again that's after The Merlin is hoping without major refurbishment. We know a design goal for up to 25 times. And I think the Raptor engine hopes to see up to 50 flights but again We'll see how history tweets its claims. But one quick fun little story here is don't forget the Merlin engine which SpaceX currently uses on the Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy rockets are already fired a bunch of times before they even make it to the pad. Each engine that is built goes to their test stand at McGregor, Texas, where it does a full duration burn then those engines go back to California where they're integrated onto the Octaweb which is at the base of the vehicle. Then they take the entire stage and they take it back out to McGregor for a full duration static fire. So it goes through the whole Then they ship it to the launch pad where does a short static fire and then it flies the mission. So it's already done like three missions in duration of firing by the time it flies for the first time so I'm not entirely a single engine has done We know that some of the and fired for a really multiple times over and over so I think they've probably full duration burns But you know I have no doubt they can probably do that if they say. I mean they have more experience in this than anybody already reusing engines without So I'm gonna definitely On the topic of price there's actually some things here that start to get really interesting when we start looking at these numbers. The first is an interesting metric that Elan talked about once saying they hope to make at their thrust to dollar ratio. Now this is a really interesting concept when you think about it. Who cares how much an engine costs if one big engine is cheaper for the same thrust or vice versa. So let's actually take a look at the dollar to kilonewton Starting with the most expensive dollar to kilonewton at a crazy $26,881 to kilonewton of thrust then the RD-180 which is followed by the F-1 at and then we get to the BE-4 which is $3333 to one kilonewton, the Merlin engine at $1170 per kilonewton and the Raptor at around but now we can go even since we know their but we also know their Now we can predict their potential costs which changes based on how reusable these engines actually are. For start the RD-180 and the F-1 aren't reusable. Their price stays the same but for the rest of the engines, if we take into account how many flights they have/will have now we start to see the and kind of close the gap down to just $1414 per But here's where things get crazy. Blue Origin's BE-4 has potential at around $133 per which could make it as the Merlin at $117 per But if the Raptor engine it could bring this number all the way down to $20 dollars Now that is absolutely game changing. Sure, money and reuseability but whatever happened to For this let's first look at each engine has had. Now at the moment of shooting and BE-4 haven't seen although the Raptor is starting and is being used on test But for now, neither engine So let's look at the other engines. First we have the F-1 engine Next up is the Merlin engine and catching up quickly to the RD-180 which is at 79 flights but the king out of these was the RS-25 which saw 135 flights. Now lastly, how about Between the number of we can get a pretty good sense of how truly reliable an engine is. This number is really since some of the engines but the mission was still a So take a few of these Again the BE-4 and Raptor So those numbers are unavailable. Then we have the space shuttle main engine which is over 99.5% reliable but that gets hard to define when an engine doesn't fully shut down. And then we have the It sure helps when you have 10 engines on each flight of the vehicle and with only one engine ever failing early on in its career, and despite that that The Merlin is a very reliable engine. Now to end this technically the RD-180 and the F-1 are 100% reliable but with the F-1 never in any flight, it gets the bold here. And depending on how you technically the RD-180 is because it got really lucky ones. One time it shut down six seconds early on an Atlas 5 mission in 2016. This was due to a faulty valve but the mission went on to be a success because of some pure luck having enough spare Delta V to carry out the mission. Had that valve failed that mission would have failed. (dramatic music) Seeing all these numbers it makes you realize go into designing a rocket. Change any one little thing and it can have this massive ripple effect on the entire design and the implementation of So let's go back over all of this. Now that we know all the aspirations of SpaceX why the Raptor engine exists and figure out if it's Let's look at SpaceX's ultimate plan. Make a rapidly and fully reusable vehicle capable of sending humans to the Moon and Mars as inexpensively and routinely as possible. Not exactly your everyday In order to be rapidly and fully reusable the and require low maintenance and low preburner temperatures. A methane fueled full flow sounds like a good fit. For reliability, redundancy, and scale of manufacturing considerations it makes sense to employ a lot of engines. In order to scale an engine down but maintain a high output chamber pressure needs to be high. Sounds like a methane fueled full flow staged combustion cycle engine is a good fit. For interplanetary trips methane makes the most sense because its boiling point makes it usable on long duration trips to Mars which guess what? You can produce methane on Mars. So for interplanetary trips staged combustion cycle Methane is fairly dense meaning the tank size remains reasonable. Which again is good for not needing to lug around making a methane fueled full a pretty good fit. Okay so let's bring this Is the Raptor engine really Well rocket science like all things is a complex series of compromises. Is it the most efficient engine? No. Is it the most powerful engine? No. Is it the cheapest engine? Probably not. Is it the most reusable engine? Maybe. But does it do everything really well? Yeah it is truly a Goldilocks engine doing everything it needs It is the perfect fit for and despite its complexity SpaceX is developing this I mean knowing how much to their Merlin engine over a decade, we're just at the infancy It's only gonna get which is crazy. So all in all the Raptor engine is the king of this application. It's a fantastic engine for their starship vehicle. Would it be the king Maybe, maybe not. And only that decision for the rocket scientists and all those crazy decisions So what do you think? Is it worth all this hassle to develop such a crazy Is this just the beginning And most importantly, is the Raptor engine really Let me know your thoughts Okay I know I say this every video, but I honestly could without the help of my Patreon supporters. They not only kept me sane as I worked on this video but they also went over They give me great feedback and suggestions in the I you want to help support what I do or provide feedback in videos or help scripting research or if you just want to hang out and talk space consider joining our and our exclusive subreddit by becoming a Patreon member by going to Patreon.com/everydayastronaut. Thank you guys. Seriously, I couldn't have made this video without you. And while you're online, be sure and check out my web store. Seriously, I have really cool things like these F-1 T-shirts, tons of other shirts. There's lots of new merchandise popping up in there all the time so check back often. We have things like grid fin not-a-coasters and hats and shirts and mugs and prints, just literally tons of cool rocket stuff. So if that's your type of thing, be sure and check out my web store everydayastronaut.com/shop and then click on the music tab if you want to check out any of the songs used in this video. It's all music that I've (mumbles) Apple, iTunes and Spotify and Google Music, all that stuff, and also there's a playlist for music video versions which is a fun way to watch and listen. So show it to a friend. Thanks everybody. That's gonna do it for me. I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut bringing space down to (exit music)