In 1977, two pioneers embarked on what might be undertaken. Their goal? To unravel the cosmic place in it. Not only did they provide us with system's outer planets, but they continue to universe from interstellar space - some The Voyager 1 and 2 probes are more than a symbol of humanity at its best and resilient. Voyager didn't just capture it captured the hearts and minds &quot;When I look back, I realise how little we Voyager,&quot; says Voyager Mission Project things we didn't know were there I'm Alex McColgan, and you're as we trace Voyager's iconic journey in to Saturn's icy rings, to the topsy-turvy world explore what this mission taught us On August 20th 1977, NASA launched the Florida. Its partner in crime, Voyager 1, was launched two weeks later on September 5th, Voyager 1 was set on a shorter, faster sense. It overtook Voyager 2 on December 15th Together, this dynamic duo was set to take alignment. Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune one mission to explore all four gas giants - After some back and forth with the US Congress, and a decade of hard work, the to the launchpad - heralding a new era of pictures&quot; Voyager would send back were But don't take my word for it. Let's Thirteen days after launch, Voyager first of tens of thousands it would send million kilometres from Earth, it's a It might remind you of the Earthrise photo just 8 years prior. We can see our blue marble and but I find this photo so hauntingly far this probe has travelled, and But we've got a long way to go, so let's move on It would be almost two years before Voyager 1 Jupiter. Not bad, considering it's 714 million 5th, 1979. You see, it travels at 17 kilometres Voyager 2 - who, despite leaving Earth first, This is because the trajectory Voyager 1 took Now, Voyager 1 was not the first spacecraft seven years prior in 1972. And while the scientific insights, it didn't quite But sending back stunning images This is Jupiter in all its glory. It's kind of not paintings, or some AI-generated image. If you the red one on the left, and Europa, the beige Lucky for us, Voyager 1 even recorded It took photos at regular intervals every the planet is in the same point of 66 photos were spliced together spanning Voyager 1's approach to Jupiter from distance of 27 million kilometres. I personally But let's get a little closer, and see Something that immediately stunned scientists see east-west and west-east winds zones. But what caught them by surprise and rotational movement, which You can immediately see how dynamic Scientists had already suspected Jupiter's Red Spot - might be a counterclockwise rotating it also showed a surprising amount of similar The white spot you see below the Great storms. Turns out Jupiter's atmosphere is When we think rings, we think Saturn, but suspected that the same is true for Jupiter. of four Jovian rings, it was also the first to Jupiter highlights the rings beautifully, as that Before we leave Jupiter and continue our journey, I did promise we would come back to its moons from the Voyager expedition is the discovery of Prior to Voyager, geologists thought Io like our own moon. While they did find circular from craters. The dark spots you can see indicate This photo shows lava flow from less than 1 and totally unexpected. We now know Io as the At the time of these pictures being taken, it would've been incredible to capture see a moon similar to ours and then These blue explosions on the surface of Io space. The volcanoes are incredibly active, treating Voyager to several jaw-dropping photos. The next moon out from Io, is Europa and it Voyager 1 was the first to show us that Europa is supposed them to be some type of ice fracture data that first suggested there might be Today, we know of 95 moons orbiting that number was 13. Voyager discovered and Adrastea - bringing the total we don't have any pictures of them from The next stop on Voyager's Grand Tour Voyager 1 arrived on approach to closely followed by its companion Like I said before - you think rings, Prior to Voyager's mission, Saturn was believed 1 showed us that these rings are each actually the closest flyby any probe had undertaken back Voyager discovered a ring too, the G-ring, and also provided key detail about the prior in 1979. Voyager 1 showed us that the It also identified two shepherd moons within was big news because this discovery shepherding moons exist around narrow Voyager also introduced us to some ghostly blurred, grey, hazy dots scattered around the broad spokes in a wheel. You might struggle to But don't worry, I've got a picture with higher contrast which makes them more visible. but they actually caused quite the stir You see, up until 1980, we thought that by gravitational forces. That's all well and the face of that theory. Their existence is not We still don't know what causes them, but the separating very small dust particles Sadly, as much as data from Voyager it also taught us that Saturn is losing its rings. turning them into a kind of dusty rain this could cause Saturn's rings Voyager's trip to Saturn raised so many mounted in the 90s to exclusively study the and orbited Saturn for 13 years. You can check out But, we aren't leaving Saturn territory breakthroughs regarding the planet's but Voyager showed us three more bringing Let's see what we can learn Pioneer 11 was the first probe to and the data it gathered captured the interest of It found that Titan had a thick, first and only encounter of such an Enceladus also turned out to a look at this photo. Enceladus with Saturn in the foreground. Now, I know Enceladus spews about 300 kilos of water vapour times its own diameter. As it orbits Saturn, the behind a doughnut-shaped cloud that feeds one of Voyager data, but it wasn't until we flew Cassini Further geological data and imaging shows mixture of old and new. The left side and the right side with the densely packed suggests Enceladus is a very geologically active Before we make our way to the wonky say goodbye to Voyager 1. After its its path was bent upward out of the ecliptic for interstellar space. Of course, it would be But not to worry, Voyager 2 took a slingshot Uranus and Neptune. These would be the first Five years after arriving at Saturn, to Uranus in January 1986. At its closest, Uranus's cloud tops. Voyager 2 revealed an atmosphere. Unlike Jupiter and Saturn, Uranus challenging scientists' preconceptions about The false-colour picture on the right the atmosphere of the polar regions - But it was another tilt that It was previously unknown whether Uranus had a not only does Uranus indeed have a magnetic field, That means its magnetic and rotational Until then, it was thought that these is here on Earth - our magnetic and by 12 degrees. This stark deviation planetary magnetic field models and forced One side-effect of this misalignment of poles is space carved out by its magnetic field Scientists still don't know how to model it, but Voyager 2's observations unveiled more and discovered two more. It is the first like its outermost ring visible in this photo. Voyager 2 also discovered two shepherd moons similar to its findings with they can be seen from 4 million kilometres, This mission significantly increased the known we only knew about five moons orbiting Uranus. these moons, which you'll see in a second, but total tally to 16 moons. Voyager's discovery compositions, and orbital characteristics. OK - back to Uranus's five OG moons. They all the moons of Saturn. Oberon and Umbriel, pictured impact craters. They seem to have little geologic Titania, which sits between those is marked by huge fault systems degree of geologic - and probably Ariel has the brightest and possibly youngest taken from just 129,000 kilometres suggests to many fault valleys and extensive flows of Miranda is the closest of the five to the the little rocky satellite discovered by Voyager Voyager flew by Miranda on January 4th, 1986, at moon turned out to be a captivating puzzle history. Voyager 2 identified traces of internal manifesting in extensive, canyon-like faults The lunar canvas is further adorned with oval, scratches. Voyager also saw &quot;terraced&quot; bright and dark, and heavily and The chevron-like characteristic seen was pulled apart and the fragments Three weeks later, on January 25th 1986, Voyager goodbye shot from 1 million kilometres as it After three years of travel at a Neptune finally came into view. Voyager 2 system on August 25th, 1989, just over It produced the first up-close images we passing only 5,000 kilometres above its Hydrogen was found to be the most although the high abundance of methane is Voyager 2 measured extraordinary wind speeds in blowing at speeds reaching almost 1,100 kilometres surprise and highlighted just how dynamic Scientists also discovered aptly named the Great Dark Spot. This turbulent just like the Great Red Spot reaching up to 2,400 kilometres per hour - One NASA analyst, Ken Bollinger, &quot;Everyday what you see is brand new, nobody's There's changes going on constantly on Voyager 2 also imaged Neptune's rings scientists suspected the planet might have the spacecraft identified several partial ring ring system. These arcs raised questions formation and stability, since they mainly A trip to Neptune wouldn't be complete without a coldest known planetary body in the solar system, complete with erupting geysers, and a pinkish Scientists also identified dark plumes, which Voyager 2 also discovered 6 new moons As Voyager 2 turned around to snap it had officially completed its &quot;Grand downward out of the ecliptic plane. From here, just like its counterpart Voyager Speaking of Voyager 1, let's see where it's One year after Voyager 2 finished up with kilometres away. In order to conserve power scientists were going to switch on the advice of Carl Sagan, the team one final picture - a look back at home and how Voyager 1 took the most remote selfie in history The infamous Pale Blue Dot photo. In the immortal words of Carl Sagan himself, home. That's us. On it everyone you love, every human being who ever was, lived out their thousands of confident religions, ideologies, every hero and coward, every creator and destroyer young couple in love, every mother and father, teacher of morals, every corrupt politician, every and sinner in the history of our species lived This sentiment rings with as much Both Voyagers 1 and 2 are still operational today, though Voyager 1 is experiencing a bit an incredible feat that we've managed to get than any other man made device. Provided this to remain viable for a few more years before While we aren't certain what these pioneering we can be sure that the incredible have inspired generations of scientists, &quot;There is perhaps no better demonstration of image of our tiny world. To me, it underscores another and to preserve and cherish the pale NASA's Voyager program gave us perspective on it be nice if we could get more of that why former NASA engineer Harleen Kaur readers can learn about current events without misinformation and bias. I'm excited to have this article about the Voyager 1 glitch. Ground and helps you know what political bias you might sources reporting and most of them are left and this would be an issue of interest to all sides read every article and compare the reporting, important tool. Finding the original source it seems like just about any story can have some If you want to check Ground News out you can to get 40% off unlimited access. This offer is Thanks for watching! If you like this in this playlist. A big thanks to my patrons and added to the end of every Astrum video, check the