So, the fact that I'm going to compare but not unjustified. This is the Ninja Lux Cafe, Oracle Jet (or Sage Oracle Jet), and this one I want to compare these two quickly. Today, going to try to be as quick as possible, and obvious, like aesthetics or exterior build Oracle Jet wins on aesthetics and exterior However, on the inside--the interior build So, let's just go ahead and get started. right off the bat, is accessibility. The it's hard for people to get their hands which is unfortunate. The Oracle Jet, right now. Check the links in the description As far as puck prep is concerned, both of these because it has auto puck prep, so it's really and polishes all-in-one, automatically. The Ninja, you do have to tamp it yourself. *Music* There you go--that's what the puck looks like portafilter, by the way. Now, let's see what to put this funnel on top, and that's the first there's another little part of it busted off you really can't use the machine anymore because What's nice, though, is you notice it teared with the Ninja Lux Cafe; it weighs out which is nice--it's more Alright, so then we just go ahead like so. Put the tamper back in its spot, and right there. Two pretty nice-looking pucks, Alright, now let's see how these two machines compare on espresso. I'm going to *Music* Alright, about 25 seconds there. There we go... *Music* Alright, that one stopped for me right at pretty similar--25 seconds here, 30 seconds different kinds of pre-infusion phases, but decent crema on both of them, especially bean today just for testing. Why not? It's a we can certainly get some sweetness and Oracle Jet: decent height, I would say, for somehow the crema looks a little different the Lux Cafe has brought out a little more of course, using the same bean, but yeah, it brought out more body, more texture, and a little that's just this test with this bean. with the Oracle Jet than with the Lux Cafe this example--dark roast supermarket bean--I'd Now, something that both of these machines Cafe does it with a spinner inside the pitcher Jet relies on its four-hole steam wand to I have not gotten the Oracle Jet to properly creators who have accomplished it, but I haven't Let's start with the Oracle Jet. All choose your parameters, and press the button. *Applause* Alright, all done. So, what we get here is really bubbly milk; it's hot on the bottom and bubbly on pitcher to help incorporate a little bit and on top--it's just a ton of bubbles. So, that's Jet. I've tried all different pitcher positions, different starting temperatures, but Now, let's try the Lux Cafe. choose your setting (I have and give it a shot. You'll notice it takes this thermal block to get up to temperature Alright, so here you can see that it actually plenty hot for me; I'm going to stop it there. which means it's harder to clean actually silky and nice. Whether or not I *Music* There you go! I got a winged but you can see that it's much Oracle Jet. There are still some little for automatic milk steaming, the Lux Cafe As for manual milk steaming, I'd say the can really get a nice whirlpool going, and With the Oracle Jet, I'm able to get really *Music* So, from the Oracle Jet, there's a beautiful Very nice, creamy milk--delightful. Now, let's *Music* So, this one certainly has less power, but you can get a whirlpool going if you want. the Ninja Lux Cafe is also able to For my skills, they're nearly The Oracle Jet is faster to get up to but with practice, you can achieve Let's take a moment to talk about ergonomics. though the Oracle Jet is a bit easier with its all the surfaces are nicer for that. The Ninja, making it harder to wipe down. Both so I'd say they're pretty much Now, what about for new baristas at home? How is I find that the Ninja Lux Cafe actually does quite me on adjusting the grind based on my shot--should first of all, the amount of water that runs to monitor both (that is the claim, anyway), to bypass the grinder; you can put grounds in and it will just ignore that shot and not Now, the barista guidance on the Oracle sometimes it gives me messages that don't up the machine in the morning and run a blank without using the grinder, it will still tell doesn't monitor that I hadn't just ground barista guidance is more mature on the Lux Cafe, Now, here's a big question: what about the build pretty obvious--at least the exterior of the top, but otherwise, the side panels and drip so if you have any tools you want to stick really nice display, and I think that's kind The Ninja, on the other hand, in terms of build for the price, it feels pretty darn good. the funnel broke pretty quickly, which the quality is fine, especially when you Let's just take a quick word to talk Jet (or Sage Oracle Jet) uses a 58 mm two-tab you can exchange it with a bottomless variant more capability to add accessories compared goofy portafilter, and there's You can use a different tamper if you So, really, the biggest question here is: what times the price of the Ninja Lux Cafe? Is the little better. In all the circumstances--I've a little better here in general. Is the auto it's actually better on the Lux Cafe. is admittedly better and faster on the Oracle Jet. What about features? They both do hot drinks, and Cafe has got two tricks up its sleeve. First of it's got this feature right here: this brew coffee with. Now, I don't find that a pour-over or something made by a Technivorm, So, feature-wise, for me, the Ninja wins. If Oracle Jet, it's in the auto puck prep and in the Whether that makes it worth four times the With all that being said, why don't you let comments down below or #OracleJet, depending on Alright, guys, thanks so much for being with you. If so, give it a like. If you thought it was until next time, happy coffee drinking