Long before the city states of Classical Greece another superpower in Greece; the Mycenaeans. the Mycenaeans were little more than a their legacy surviving in What also remained, however, were some of These were so impressive to the Classical Greeks a race of giants that predated humans. In most impressive of those cities and the focal Interestingly, in the modern age not only interactive city and fill it with other This is a new creation platform for building extremely hard to do, Yahaha offer a way to and all for free. They provide the assets, the so you can do the best part of all: building your Everyone has a game to make inside them, but it's one medium that takes extreme Now, take your idea and see it realised in themselves on cloud servers, so you don't clog And when you have something to show the world, you a cross-platform service that lets PC games. That of course means that you can have already made for inspiration, or So, give that game you've always been You can get in on this for free right Just use our link in the description. The site of Mycenae is located in the Peloponnese, According to Greek myth it was founded by one getting the name Mycenae from the mushroom cap of his sword. Archaeological evidence shows that and it is easy to see why when looking at a hill providing natural defences in the typical and controlled access to the Isthmus of Thanks to this ideal location the settlement grew by which time it had become established enough further afield, particularly from the Cretan at that time. As the Minoan civilisation becoming the premier Aegean culture The period of approximately 1600-1100 Mycenaean Greece and marks the golden age of then it was near the end of this time-period that his famous expedition against Troy. It is this The main citadel of Mycenae was surrounded by the would have lived, which in turn was surrounded by settlement are still in their comparatively early area, but what has survived in detail are a number in the area. There are two types of these tombs Grave Circle B. Grave Circle B is the earlier form It consisted of 26 graves most of which were mound and stele which was typical in Greece Gravesites such as this and the others at Mycenae culture and lifestyle of the city's social elite. and shallower with less extravagant gifts, but as with more gold gifts being left with the dead than the gravesite later into its existence, often Women were buried richly dressed with earrings, while men were buried with marks of their status and clothes with some minor gold lining. In both and Crete have been found, showing the wealth cultural and political development of the city can Perhaps confusingly, this grave circle being constructed between around 1550 and 1500. each other in time, the newest graves of Grave as the oldest of Circle A. Though constructed a circular wall, Circle A was built within the are more opulent than those in Grave Circle B. full sets of orate weaponry that were clearly jewellery and cups of gold and silver. Almost 15 large horde for Greece, though far smaller than Most famous among the discoveries found here both again discovered and named by Schliemann. heroes has been largely debunked, but they are for their time. Exquisite bull heads also show but at the same time, ornate depictions of Lion Hunt dagger, show a distinctly Mycenaean development of the culture of Mycenae, and developed upon them crafting out a unique graves for their time, they are eclipsed by The tholos tombs were built near the end of the the huge prestige the city had garnered in the walls of the citadel, and would have been passed Mycenae. Tholos tombs are built in a false dome and have distinctive long corridors leading into already existing hills, or were These kinds of tombs take much more skill and graves and are a testament to how far Mycenae had most striking example is the so-called Treasury The tomb was discovered by infamous amateur had an obsession with attempting to find and so claimed them to be the tombs of famous had previously. Pausanias. The historicity of date when it is assumed to have happened, and so of Agamemnon or Atreus should be taken with it is clear that whichever king was buried there mounted by a 120 ton lintel, the largest lintel in distribute the weight. It is small wonder then would have been strong and skilled enough to have was flanked on the outside by two large false carved with a zig-zag pattern. Above these from Laconia. The lintel would have been while the relieving triangle also would have been patterned colours to the columns. The interior of painted in red porphyry and green alabaster, a Pin holes in the wall also suggest that there inside. William Cavanagh estimates that the 'man days' to create, truly a colossal went into its construction, the rarity and luxury and the time and resources spent on it are all since the time of the kings found in Grave Site B. was the citadel and palace. What remains of these 13th century during the Mycenaean golden age, been built over by these. This was the Mycenae After passing the tholoi and grave site B, by the site of Mycenae defences. The colossal and the citadel was clearly designed with supplied by a natural spring, the Perseia (named would be constantly supplied with water even there was a small postern gate, used to either of danger. This was not, however, the main gate. was the famous Lion Gate, which is still on the right narrowed the entryway considerably, which would have limited the numbers of any the main entrance into the almost [missing number] approximately 3 metres wide and 3 metres high, door. Atop the gate was the magnificent relief also 3 metres high. There is much speculation sphinxes, and about what they represented. Given Mycenaean religious art featuring rampant such as a column or tree, the relief probably The use of lions, if that is indeed what they result, the intention of the relief may be to show at the least have divine blessing, but these It also served a practical purpose. Carved into thick, it is also a relieving triangle, like that Mycenaean monumental art that has survived, Mycenaean culture as a whole, and a defining in the Pausanias' writing being the means by which Beyond Grave Circle A, the Great Ramp one leading to a courtyard high on the acropolis, under a propylaea, an extravagant gate house small courtyard and finally, to the megaron, the The palace followed the typical Mycenaean style. that opened onto the courtyard. This would imposing door that would lead to the megaron. the entrance being on one of the short sides. would have focused the attention of any visitor where the throne would have been. In the centre by four wooden pillars, and with a circular hole incredibly important symbol for the Mycenaeans, of those ideals. It was around this hearth that The floors of the megaron would either have while the walls were decorated in frescoes Once again then, the palace would have been prestige and power of the king of Mycenae. If this room that Atreus, his son Agamemnon, Some historians have suggested that it was soon palace, sometime in the late 13th century, that thus inspiring Homer's Iliad. If this is true, of the Mycenaeans. The civilisation began to it collapsed completely. Mycenae and all the such as Pylos and Tiryns, were all burnt around late bronze age collapse across the Eastern cities in that part of the world being destroyed Turkey, Egypt and the Levant. Many theories have earthquakes, volcanic eruption, the mysterious Sea Mycenae would never regain her previous glory. Archaic Greek period, and Mycenae was a small but by the Roman period, the site had been left being the ruins we can still see today. light on the history behind Homer, one of the and reveal to us the scope of Greek history. Pericles, Socrates and other great Greek figures, civilisation. So awe-inspiring were the relics only explain their creation by assuming a they were correct. The Mycenaeans were truly and militarily, as we can see from the ruins More videos on the Bronze Age civilizations and have pressed the bell button to Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing - without our kind patrons and youtube channel in the description to know our schedule, get and much more. This is the Kings and Generals