- Jim and Carol Cymbala for the last, I think about eight, nine, 10 years. They're dear, dear friends of ours. Jim and Carol pastor in Brooklyn How many years have you been there? - 21. So much integrity within the city. We were there for a at Radio City Music Hall, three nights and they filled the place, they did with their choir and their ministry. The city loves these people because of the wonderful You know about mission work, They love the Lord with Jim is a big basketball for a dear, old guy coming from Indiana, we have a good time discussing basketball. Jim you're with friends and - Thank you. (audience clapping) It's a real joy to be here and I wanna talk for a few and yet it's so simple. It's so familiar to us I want our session this that will make a difference some kind of talk with I pray that by His grace, we can have fresh communion with God. To approach that subject, I strange and stunning pictures of Jesus found anywhere in the Bible. Of all the portraits there is no portrait found we see Christ on the cross. We know Christ as the Good Shepherd. We know Christ walking on the water. We see Christ sitting at the but in your wildest dreams, And have you ever wondered in the Bible not just once but twice? &quot;And so they came to &quot;into the temple and began to drive out &quot;those who bought and sold in the temple. &quot;And he overturned the &quot;and the seats of those who sold doves &quot;and he would not allow anyone &quot;to carry wares through the temple. &quot;And then he taught them &quot;my house shall be called &quot;for all nations but you have &quot;And the scribes and the &quot;how they might destroy &quot;because all the people were &quot;and when evening had come, Now the Bible has many and to me, none is stranger. The Lamb of God, the one who of the world, the gentle loving Jesus, who has the Good Shepherd, and brings it home and yet, we see Jesus physically emoting in a way that is really hard for us to picture. That he would actually take and throw money on the ground. That he's somehow all by the disciples were passive in this, that he would stop people from and just by a word of authority, &quot;with that, you can't bring And that he would go to the people who sold the oxen and for the poor people and he would say, &quot;Out, get your business out of here.&quot; I mean, it's an amazing The loving Jesus that we know, to be that irate and physical must mean they're not in the spirit And what's strange about this this has happened, I read from Mark. When the Bible tells us in that in Jesus's first visit to the temple, after he began his public ministry when he was about 30 years old, In fact, the Bible tells us there that he made, are you ready? A whip out of cords and used a cord, these cords and this whip to out of the temple. Now it's three years, two and now He's getting ready to face Calvary and He comes back to the temple Why would God put something That He would go into and get so physical and so irate and said, &quot;You've made it a house of merchandise. &quot;You've made it a den of &quot;Is it not written my father's house &quot;shall be called a house of prayer?&quot; Now, what's odd about all who were in there belong there. The people who were selling the animals had to be near the temple to offer the sacrifices in the books of Moses, those animals available for you. You couldn't be carting or all through the streets of Jerusalem. So those people belong there but they had put a gouging They were making money hand of the fact that they were and they were hiking the prices up so that people were And the money changers, you if you were a good Jew or Roman money, you had to that were minted in Jerusalem itself. So those money changers were from wherever you came and you changed your money the proper donation but tacking on big-time profit. And the people carrying stuff the writers of that time around the temple, they and they went through the right through the temple, making the house of God a And Jesus with his whip made of cords and Jesus somehow physically and His authority just and kicks them all out. Before I get to my main that all of us who are and preaching the gospel and gospel singing whatever the style is and you who are Sunday school there's a lot of influence you're gonna go back, a in the place where you came from. Boy, does that challenge not if you're doing God's work, For the Bible tells us is gonna stand at the judgment gonna ask me why I pastored and with what spirit? You see, these people were in the temple but they didn't have the They were supposed to be there and to come into God's but they were out of sync that God had for the place I mean, they were doing but they were making big-time and they had brought a secular They were businessmen, coming into something that God said, &quot;My house shall be called You made it a den of thieves. You're getting over on Awesome thought. And in a day when gospel and gospel work can become toward me, myself and I, it at the Praise Gathering that as we go back to our separate duties that we have to do God's We have to do God's work and because one day, it doesn't approve of you, it doesn't or how popular Jim Cymbala One day, the Bible says, I'm whose eyes are like fire All of you that sing in that choir, it's not just if you're on your note, it's why you're on your note. It's the spirit that you're doing it. Am I doing it for the glory of God? Do I really care about those I mean, am I preaching and get through another service or does my heart really And am I saying the things with the spirit, He Why are you teaching that Sunday school class? Why are you singing in that choir? Why do you serve? The Bible says that when He reminded them, this is not your house, this is my Father's house and my Father's house has And when you touch something I'm gonna kick you all out of here. And even though He's not and kicking people out, when Paul says, we'll all stand at the judgment seat of Christ and we're gonna have to And we will be reviewed and how we did it but that's but that's a well-taken Not only on the crass because it's so easy to make gospel work just another way to make a living. That's what these people were doing. They weren't interested in people getting in contact with God, they were making a living out of it. But as we do God's work, that is only due to Him, whatever the Lord wants to remind us through this, that all the glory and all the honor must go to Jesus Christ. But the thing that really provoked Jesus into this angry tirade was this. He said, &quot;You men don't even understand &quot;about my Father's house. &quot;You've given your &quot;but the temple doesn't belong to you. &quot;My Father's house shall &quot;and you've made it a den of thieves.&quot; This is a first principle of religions. So listen closely. Jesus said, &quot;My Father's house &quot;shall be called a house of prayer.&quot; The atmosphere of my Father's house is supposed to be prayer. The atmosphere around must be that aroma of people to my Father in worship and in And instead of keeping at that atmosphere and you've made it a place So out with you. My house shall be called The thing that's supposed to and Christian people is the aroma and the atmosphere of prayer. You might say, well, Pastor that's not our style, we come It doesn't matter what your tradition is or what my tradition is, and His Father says, &quot;In my house, &quot;it shall be a house of Now, we know that that The Brooklyn Tabernacle, the is not a sacred building. Your church building is There are no sacred buildings That temple that sat there in Jerusalem, which now, the mosque of was the only place that God said, the brazen altar could be put and the animal sacrifices could be given. It was the only geographical where the holy place and So what I'm not trying to say there's some counterpart to In fact, the Bible says, we're but what I wanna say to from the very beginning often imagine it. God's word, God's house, is always supposed to Preaching yes but not the house of preaching. Music yes but my house shall not be called the house of music. My house shall be called They were choirs but it was There was the reading of the word but my house shall be So the Bible tells us that and resurrected and went back to heaven and he began his church, shall not prevail against, running through the which was in his Father's house. Have you ever noticed was not born while someone was preaching but while people were praying? Have you ever noticed of the book of Acts when they were doing nothing but And they were just sitting and worshiping and waiting with God and God's shaping and building faith into heart operations that only the church was born, the My house shall be called In the fourth chapter, and they're slapped around and threatened, don't you preach anymore in that name? And what do they do? They don't go and protest. They don't go to the Supreme Court. They don't try to get They go back to a prayer meeting. They go back and say, &quot;Behold the threat. &quot;Oh God, look how they're &quot;we lift our voices together to you. &quot;Oh God, behold their threats &quot;and give your servants boldness &quot;that we might preach And the place where they and they were all filled and spoke the Word of God with boldness. My house shall be called They had this instinct When intimidated, pray. When challenged, pray. When persecuted, pray. When you're in trouble, pray. In fact this thing called is so unique, it's not we talk about pray, we say prayers, a lot of them are mental prayers. This thing called praying is so deep that when the Apostle Paul got converted and he was first Saul of Tarsus, this violent persecutor of the church. Jesus went to Ananias and in Damascus and said, &quot;Go &quot;this church persecutor &quot;and pray for him,&quot; and Ananias said, I know about this man, this man And Jesus said, &quot;As if this was proof &quot;that everything had changed. &quot;No Ananias, you can go, He prays, you can go now blind somewhere waiting for the first time in his religious life is offering a true prayer you can go and not be afraid. It was as if that was was the real deal with God. Behold, he prays. And that same Apostle Paul and he wants to encourage He says this, first of all First of all, in your church before anything else, and intercessions and thanksgiving That's first of all, it doesn't matter what your tradition is or what The Word of God says, first of all then, I want supplications because my house shall be called Later on in the same chapter, he says and then remember to lift up holy hands and I want them to pray. That's the sign of a Christian Church. Paul says, men, pray with holy hands without wrath or doubting. In fact, the book of Revelation and 20 elders fall at the feet of Jesus, they have these golden bowls and you know what's in the bowls? This incense that is It's the prayers of the saints. I mean, what must prayer be the God that He keeps it in bowls in heaven? Just imagine when you and I and we really open our heart to God, somehow those things are kept. They're so precious to God. My house shall be called a house of prayer and we have in the day that we live in a lot of revisionism going on. But it's not coming from Washington, it's coming from the church. We're revising what are churches today. The Bible says and they they continued steadfastly and in fellowship and and in prayers. Now, we've revised that and for one hour on Sunday that's the church, that's not the church. We can use every device we and keep it early and keep because people have important That's not the story of That might be the story of but that's not the church Jesus built. And the history of revivals have told us that whenever and commercial and secular and hard and worldly, God sends a revival and what's always the sign of the revival? Behold, they pray, the Moody goes somewhere in Finney goes to upstate New The Great Awakening happens in America and they begin to pray, Nobody, they prayed. Where was the great music? Oh, they made great songs but about it, it was they prayed. Prayer preceded it, prayer kept it going and the minute prayer ended, and we got back into one for the Church of Jesus Christ. You folks, young people who let me tell you as someone as a basketball player and traveled around the never had the privilege like you folks are going to. The greatest thing anybody can learn in this building is how to pray. How to call on God so that God They continued steadfast fellowship, breaking and that's the church and I I talked to men, if I a lot of you would know and they tell me privately off the record, hey, listen, I know that I'm and my sermons but brother because except for I can't get a soul into the church. If I called a prayer meeting, not 1/10 of the congregation would come. They'll pay $20 for a They'll pay all kinds of money and that's wonderful, I'm awaken us that if the that nobody would come, shall be called a house of prayer? My house shall be called a house of prayer and you represent all kinds of cities and just ask yourself that what church do you know with all the leadership there and says, if prayer is so great and a house of prayer and we Ask, you shall receive. Seek, you shall find. Knock, it shall be open call unto me and I will answer you. You would think the timeout, we're gonna pray because God said when we pray, He'll intervene. The truth of the matter is in and the same is for Chicago who are we kidding? More people are turning There are more people trying crack than are getting baptized in And preaching is not gonna do it alone and teaching is not gonna do it alone. My house shall be called That's what brings God's power The proof of that is in the last 40 years, there's been more books than in all the preceding More books in the last go to any pastor in America and ask him if there aren't more problems than at any time and We got all the how tos but what we're missing My house shall be called A couple that prays A church that prays There'll be difficult moments, but God's Word is true, call I'll show you things Just give me a chance. There's more books on child rearing, quality time with your Talk to any pastor, there's young people in the church than at any time previous. It's not because we're lacking knowledge. It's not because we're lacking how to and all of that has its when the rubber meets the We need the grace of God as I come to a close. Therefore, let us come boldly so that we might receive grace and mercy to help us in our time of need. It doesn't say therefore We in America have made God never intended the The preacher if he does his to come to the throne of grace, why? Because it's at the throne of grace that God gives grace and mercy. If a gospel singer really does his job and every gospel singer, listen to me, you're gonna answer up one day because God's gonna say to to where the action was If you just entertained them, and gave them a little warm, fuzzy moment, woe unto you because I could have changed their life. Pastor Cymbala, did you bring with your footwork and try to be clever or did you make Jesus wonderful so that they could come Therefore, let us come boldly That's why Jesus ascended to so that he could make a way could go and receive grace I'm coming apart here. It's an awesome thing, that we've created a and sometimes his house shall In a lot of churches and a lot of services you have a everything but prayer. You have talks, readings, talent, choir and my wife conducts a choir, but you get what I'm driving at? If it doesn't end up with who are we kidding? We need the Lord. For someone who's so for the ministry, it seems among other things to of those foolish things My wife writes music and directs the Brooklyn Tabernacle Choir and she neither reads nor writes music. She's never been trained. She doesn't know what she's (congregation laughing) I've never been to a and I ended up with 15 or 18, on a street that was so depressing. Our church was so depressing, I didn't wanna go and I was in charge. (congregation laughing) Drugs everywhere in our city. Totally different culture there and I, as a ballplayer had been around and then I realized, what am I gonna do? Am I gonna live in this Christian fantasy about what God once did and but then your life goes by and you never see God do anything? You can let your life pass Remember, the worst epitaph will be this, you had not Someone says, well brother that you don't get everything you ask for, it has to be according to God's will. I understand all of that but we can't use little theological dodges that a lot of people don't have things that God wants you to He wants you to have it right now today but over my life or possibly yours, He writes, you have not I wanna do it for you but God has chosen prayer listen, the one conductor, the one channel for all of God's blessings, In other words, God has and he sees Jay and Amy and he to raise that child and with every kind of wisdom that they could possibly need but he says, the only way you can get it and taste and see that the to the table is called prayer. In other words, God doesn't tell us pray because I want my people to pray. He says, pray because I have and when you ask, you shall receive. In other words, it's not legalism. It's not, get in there and start praying. It's, I need the, oh, I need the. Every hour I need the, God, Help me, Lord and as we pray, He's faithful to His word and supplies. Well, my wife and I began about this conductor and and we began to see And I began to preach and not on my own and building a library and trying to stay a student it was rough. Sermons I preached at the beginning, it's tough when you fall (congregation laughing) Not just the people falling But you know, I found this that God, when you become a Christian and how He blesses people through prayer, He's gonna make you a woman of prayer. He's gonna make you, sir, a man of prayer and you try to run, he'll chase you but he will make us people of prayer. He knows how to order our lives and say, do you realize Oh, no, Lord, I can handle this on my own and God says, alright, fine. When you hit the stone wall the 32nd time, remember that you need me. But notice he's not so He can say, see, I got him praying. It's a father saying, I have all of this and you live with such scarcity. Please come unto me, all you that labor. Pray, talk, spend time, You're running for what? Working with what? There's nothing in Jim Everything that you need, I have. So when are we gonna talk? So I began to learn and we began prayer meeting as the bram of our church and this past Tuesday night gathered like every Tuesday those days we've had like all stressing that prayer if you can beat the devil you'll beat them on every other level. (congregation clapping) And that's the way it is If you can beat the enemy in prayer, you can beat them on every There's grace flowing through your life. You have an appetite So from me standing in front of two people on a Tuesday night, I used to do that. First offering, I took tithes and offerings and I who was about a year old. My wife took a second but the people began to pray. But in closing, let me just tell you some of the last lessons I've learned about this wonderful truth to preach down to anyone, I'm preaching to myself About eight or nine years ago, my daughter who is here She got away from not only She got away from our house a two and a half year long nightmare that I don't wanna go into. But I promised God as I was that as He brought me through it, that wherever I got a no matter how hard it would No matter how hard it would be, I would tell people what God You know what the feeling is not to know where your daughter is, when I have two other children. Chrissy's now 25, I have a but at that time, Chrissy was about 17, 18 and it was, I'm talking nightmare. I'm talking about getting in to go to the church in the inner city, where I'm gonna face who are HIV positive and a battered woman and no need family units and and I don't wanna be the focus. I'm supposed to be there, but I'm crying from the minute and saying God, my heart is I've screamed, begged, pleaded, cried and she's getting worse, And how am I gonna minister? And we're starting other churches and renting Radio City Music in the city and going to South America and Carol's writing But nobody knows, very few people know that we're hanging by a And all the times I drove coming in and saying, through these three meetings. We have 11, 3:30 and 7:30 services each about two hours long God, please just get me and God would just lift me to get through and minister to people even though inside I was just shaking. And I learned that when I learned that when you have God somehow when you pray and a fresh foundation. We have a prayer band in our church. It's more important Brooklyn Tabernacle Choir. There's a prayer band that not only prays through each service, through each service on and ministering, they're in but now they pray for several years now from two in the afternoon In the church, there's people praying, every seven days a week, two in the afternoon If any of you have some need, you can just mail it to our church, somebody will pray for It's an amazing thing, Well, they begin to pray for I would sense myself at night sometimes or shaving in the morning, just come underneath me and hold my emotions and I about God and I would say, &quot;Lord, what is this that's Somebody's praying for you. Somebody's praying for you. Those people would be praying Then my wife got ill, had and the hormonal imbalance my daughter's out of the house. The other two children, and now my wife is not talking which she wanted to because fine, start your churches and but I'm gonna have all your children. I've got one and I'm And my wife believed it and told me, &quot;You can leave with me or &quot;because he already has Chrissy &quot;and I'm not losing my other &quot;We can't do this.&quot; The atmosphere in the city, New York is a miserable place to be. I'm not there because I like it. I'm there because God put me there and then after the operation, she doesn't feel any And I mean, what do you do? Your wife is flipping you're doing all of these oh, how wonderful it is to know no matter what's happening, What a wonderful God. One November, after about Chrissy was away, God and I and God spoke to me and said, I know you've been praying for Chrissy. The impressions I got were basically this, I don't wanna sound I'm just gonna tell you from my heart. No more talking to Chrissy and no more talking to anyone else and no more money and no more drop it, let's make a covenant. You just tell me and I'll take care of it. And I told my wife, I'm until she's right and My wife kept in touch Christmas, sad Christmas. Who wants presents when On a February night in the prayer meeting, my house shall be called We were all praying and calling Nobody in charge, no choir, You have Jesus. It's amazing how wonderful He is and someone sent a note who's sensitive to the Lord and she sent a note up through &quot;I feel deeply impressed &quot;the prayer meeting and People were praying all around and said, God is this really you? I don't wanna be the center of attraction. People have their own needs I stopped the prayer and everybody gathered together and held hands, over 1,000 And I called one of my and he began to pray and I don't know what your theology is and it really doesn't matter. I'm just gonna tell you what happened. You know, what Paul said, giving birth to Christ be formed on you. Well, I told the people my and down is up and she and dark is light and unless my daughter is out there. And someone wants me to stop the meeting, so you could pray. My associate is gonna and suddenly it turned into a labor room. You ever hear women when It's not pleasant but it (congregation laughing) And they began to pray, As God is my witness, I I mean, they began to pray as if they went to the throne of grace like and now Satan, you will give up that girl. Jay, if you would just come, let's sing Pass Me Not, O I came home, my wife and over a cup of coffee at night, I told her, &quot;Carol, it's over.&quot; She said, &quot;What's over?&quot; I said, &quot;It's over. &quot;If there's a God in heaven, &quot;what I just experienced &quot;It's over.&quot; Just about a day later, I was shaving and my wife burst into the bathroom and said, &quot;Chrissy is here.&quot; I said, &quot;Chrissy, I hadn't Chrissy and you better go down. I went down the steps and in and on the kitchen floor was And then I walked in the kitchen, she grabbed at my pants, She was weeping and she said, &quot;Daddy, I've sinned against God. &quot;I've sinned against myself. &quot;I've sinned against you and mommy. &quot;Daddy, forgive me for &quot;Daddy, daddy, it's different &quot;but daddy who was praying for me? &quot;Who was praying Tuesday night for me.&quot; &quot;What Chrissy?&quot; &quot;What happened?&quot; And she drew up to me and she said, &quot;In the middle of the &quot;and He showed me that I &quot;and it had no bottom but &quot;and showed me how awful I &quot;and He showed me that He loved me &quot;and He had a plan for my life &quot;and daddy, I've made it right with God.&quot; And I could tell by her face the one I had raised. Very soon God opened the door she directed the music She married a man of God. They're both in the ministry today and God reminded me once again, my house shall be called a house of prayer because when you call I will answer. And the hard cases that I wanna tell you now, it won't Seminars have their limits, that gets you to the throne of grace. But when you get there, watch out because God can do exceedingly I'm not being emotional, but we have too many technicians that are into methodology, the The answer is in the The answer is in the grace of God. (congregation clapping) Could you just close your eyes right now? They've given me permission for this and Randy and Pass me not O gentle Savior Sing it with me Hear my humble cry While on others Thou art calling Do not pass me by Savior Savior Hear my humble cry While on others Thou art calling Do not pass me by While every eye is closed, that song again and the lights are dim because the last thing we or any sense of embarrassment for anyone. I have a feeling that there's that could all too empathize went through and you who's out there even some but you know they're out there. When you consecrated and this is not the end result There may be totally away or maybe you could just sense They're just going through that you know they're gonna need in life. Tenderness to God is not there. Instead of worrying or just I'm gonna ask as we sing that song again, for every mom and dad or who has a grandchild, You love them and they've they've been talked to, Now it's up to God, it's up to God, the Holy Spirit to get them. We're not God, we can just bring it to God or maybe you're a husband is not with you today serving the Lord and yet and now there's trouble in the house. Listen, those are the This stuff in Haiti and this that's child's play compared I'm gonna ask every or husband or wife who identifies with anything I've just said, would you stand right and by standing, you're saying, to the throne of grace, Just stand, that's it, don't be ashamed. Pass me not O gentle Savior Sing with me please. Hear my humble cry While on others Thou art calling Do not pass me by Just close your eyes, Savior Savior Hear my humble cry While on others Thou art calling Do not pass me by Father God, we come to you this morning. We sense your presence here. I've done my best to honor your word, God. We're not the ones who invented prayer. You're the one who called us to your side to the throne of grace and who are weeping some of them over that son or that daughter, we understand, God. For those grandparents who are or that marriage that's falling apart, God, we need your Grace. We need your mercy, oh, Lord. We need the Holy Spirit to my daughter and countless other people who have been prayed for over as Christians have called upon you, God, we ask you to do it again, oh, Lord. We're coming to the throne of grace, we don't have the strength to We're not smart enough to do it. We can't finesse it, we of the Holy Spirit into Wake them up in the middle While they're driving in a car, let them feel the glory of the Lord. While they're taking a shower, that were taught to them But God, we're not gonna We're gonna fight the good fight of faith. We're gonna pray and and after we pray, we're gonna pray again. We won't let you go, Unless you touch these And Lord, I pray that there'll of prayer in all of to our several homes. Oh, God let prayer Let prayer meetings begin Let people see God all of us afresh that when we call upon you, Stop us from being so rushed and never coming really to Work on our hearts and not Make us men and women who tasting and saying how good you are. While every eye is still closed, I just wanna sing it one more time and if someone is standing just look up briefly, on their arm or their shoulder, they need your encouragement. We all understand what they're feeling. Would you sing it with me? Pass me not O gentle Savior Hear my humble cry While on others Thou art calling Do not pass me by Let's all stand and sing. Savior Savior Hear my humble cry While on others Thou art calling Do not pass me by Based on the verses I've that God has heard our prayers today? Could you lift up your hands? Let's put our hands (congregation clapping) - Hi, I'm Bill Gaither and that Gloria and I have sitting in heavenly places with some of the greatest Moments of wonderful fellowship, beautiful times of praise and worship, joy, laughter and tears and on film so that you can Many of you who have asked are Well, there are, just for more information. Well now this train is - Sing it This train is bound - Y'all heard the sound now, come on.