Ever notice anything strange Because while you might be focused you might be missing something like this. Here are 10 details you might have missed. Number Ten: Pretty Patties, [laughing] Pretty Patties are famous Your dumb Pretty Patties But maybe the Bikini Bottomites if they paid really close attention they'd see that Pretty Patties on SpongeBob and Patrick. It's easy to see Where are their legs? Did the Pretty Patties I sure hope so, because otherwise they might wanna take a trip Hey, at least they can keep Fred company. My leg! Number Nine: Look what I got under my kilt! And look at our tongues! What's wrong with you? We want our money back. All 46,853 of us. Yep, more Pretty Patties, We know they can change the color the pattern of their underwear, and even give people But are they responsible for this? Tall wide-eyed formless creatures They're kind of terrifying, actually. Number Eight: [screaming] OK, there's a lot going on here, I know. But while it may seem like random chaos, if you pause it and look more closely there's a few frames that actually Let's break it down. Here we see two firefighters and they're holding a trampoline you'll notice a fish shaped hole And finally, if you look down here you can just make out two feet of someone Have you put it together? We can't say for sure, jumped out of this burning building while these firefighters tried Number Seven: We did it, Patrick! We saved the city! Just think what might've happened if we didn't tell everyone About the what? This one is actually from a little later Like we've said, but we're not talking about the meteor the entire second story of his house. We're talking about this. [music] I mean, the cause of all this chaos So how could he have caused this? Maybe Wormy really was a monster. [buzzing] [screaming] Number Six: Now, I learned a lesson So listen and you won't regret Don't miss your chance Who ripped his pants Everybody loves the I mean, just look at that cheering crowd. That sure looks like they love this song While everyone else is partying, these two are completely frozen, and just staring intensely at SpongeBob. Either they are completely unimpressed or they love it a little too much. Either way, it's kinda creepy. Now I learned a lesson Number Five: Here, look at it! It's ugly isn't it? You, look at it! Hello. You, look at it! Hi. Look at it! Look at it! Look at it! Look at it! Don't let Patrick distract you, Look at it! because what you should you know, the chocolate guy, Chocolate! Chocolate! Chocolate! Chocolate! Can you spot 'em? since he's right here and here. That's right. Then when we see the crowd again, And there were like five Toms. Well, at least now he'll have help Way to go, buddy, it took us three days Three days! Number Four: Fortunately, I have enough talent [laughing] All of y-- [laughing] Yeah. Hm. When do we get the free food? OK, this one's really hard to catch because it's not about what you see, Let's watch it again. Fortunately, I have enough talent [laughing] All of y-- [laughing] Yeah. Hm. When do we get the free food? Did you notice it? What happened to the other half We can't see any part of him so does the helmet or does it actually reveal Maybe Sandy's helmet doubles or it's just a mistake. Number Three: Well, maybe we wouldn't sound so bad if some people didn't try to play What did you say, punk? Big... Meaty... Claws! Well, these claws Bring it on, old man! Bring it on! No people. Oh, so now the talking cheese Wait, wait. I know tensions are high. [fighting] There's a deposit on that equipment, [arguing] Settle down, please! [fighting] [fighting] [screaming] What a rumble. What do ya think Was it Sandy threatening Patrick Was it this literal cymbal crash Why is SpongeBob And to make things stranger of anyone else in the room. In fact, it looks like a human arm, How did we miss that? Number Two: Ah, Goo Lagoon, free ice cream and holy big face, Like, I know there are but that one actually doesn't have a face. Well, at least SpongeBob If he doesn't have a face, and he can't drown. he probably wouldn't have been But wait a minute, aren't they all fish? So how could any of them drown? Number One: - Squidward! What in Neptune's name is going on? We're making the commercial, Mr. Krabs. What you're doing is throwing away I told you to rent This is all necessary. Well, what's all this useless junk? That's the useless junk for scene, ah, 28. Oh, well, how do you explain that? Mr. Krabs, everyone needs an understudy. Well, you got me there. OK, I really want them to release of the Krusty Krab commercial. I mean, Mr. Krabs took over, Get lost! All a ya! Y'er fired. Go on! If you look closely you can see that it was gonna go involving giant tomato slices, That is, before Krabs got there with a more corporate plan. Yep, I got a sweet deal Oh, dad, I've got a real problem. What's your problem, Amy? I've got all this money And I'm hungry. #releasethesquidwardcut