Translator: Peter van de Ven So, I was on a roll. I was an executive with a nice salary, annual bonuses, and stock options, all the perks. Everything was on track. And on Monday, January 7th, 2008 at three o'clock in the afternoon, in a small conference room the president of the company which wasn't unusual since he was my boss. But the meeting turned out He fired me. And I'll never forget how his words and I left the conference room and I went home and curled up in my bed And while I could go on what it did to my self-esteem, what I now realize is, while that event created the greatest it was that discomfort, the departure from my ordered life, that forever changed it for the better. You see, friends, what makes you comfortable can ruin you, and what makes you uncomfortable Let me say that again: What makes you comfortable can ruin you, and only in a state of discomfort, Now, I suppose if on January 8th, &quot;Gee buddy, getting fired is a good thing I probably would have smacked them. But, pretty quickly I became motivated and after a couple years and a PhD friend we had this epiphany on how to illustrate and apply We called the concept: the &quot;Growth Rings.&quot; The Growth Rings represent that promote or hinder growth. And that includes everything to even a fishbowl. You see, what dictates is its environment. And while this goldfish it's also very limiting in most every way. And when placed like, say, a small pond, Now, it also means he could be eaten. But friends, this is you - the environments they're all a proverbial fishbowl So, the first Growth Ring represents called stagnation. Stagnation is understood and permissions, and minutiae. That stifles creativity, To imagine an environment such as this, think no further than our state Now, the antithesis also low-growth and low-performing. Chaos can be caused by internal We see chaos occur at times natural disasters, Chaos is having over inputs and outcomes. Coming back down the Growth Rings, next to stagnation is Order is knowing that what you do, leads to a predictable outcome. And in predictability, comfort is found. But comfort is also Because science shows that anytime or even think about something you'll eventually stop growing. And this applies to every living thing - even our dog. You see, if Aspen had a chance, she'd choose comfort six days a week (Laughter) But too much growth-limiting order would have prevented her and had this been allowed, think of the lives this gentle soul So, before your order continues remember what I said earlier: Growth only occurs Now, think about the power of that phrase: Growth only occurs I can unequivocally state, without my uncomfortable, by the way I'm not recommending you go (Laughter) When you feel discomfort hit, that means you've entered Complexity is nothing more but when your order is changed, and it's unpredictability And while most times your visceral response to discomfort you can actually learn to consciously acknowledge discomfort, and then, when appropriate, And I know seeking discomfort sounds odd, but you have to learn to embrace it because it's the only environment where sustained Okay. To weave high-growth complexity there are three primary ways Complexity trigger number one When I got fired, I didn't have complexity was selected for me, how much you grow Now, I could have remained angry, but what I actually learned and I'm much better off accepting Complexity trigger number two: This is the role of parents, Because left on their own, people will consciously or subconsciously And they then need to be in order to continue growing. My youngest daughter training to play tennis, and her coach was on complexity and the Growth Rings. So, I called him up one day and I was able to phrase &quot;Hey, Lee, how long has it been since Maddie's been pushed Lee's response: &quot;Hmm, funny you'd ask Bill. She broke down into tears &quot;Huh.&quot; Well, knowing how tough my daughter is, told me she was deep into complexity. But, friends, this is where critical because the old Bill, would have intervened and wanted to know Then I would have done everything I could What I really would have been doing is removing the complexity, I actually would have been stifling But the new, post-Growth Ring Bill (Laughter) And it was the coach's next words He said, &quot;Bill, I've got to tell you, to get her to the limits than it did last month.&quot; Discomfort was causing her growth. Okay, but what if you're not lucky enough to live or work in a robust What if you're stuck in order, Well, the great news is, everyone can trigger So, complexity trigger number three: Take a journey with me in the 1950s. Imagine, if you will and she attends an all-black high school. And she takes the city bus which wasn't unusual in that era. And on March 2, 1955, and she sits near the back, in the first row of seats And as the bus continues there's eventually And according to local law she needed to move further back You see, Montgomery had an order in place that when followed, repression of people with little conflict. But 15-year-old Claudette Colvin had just spent the last month and she was understandably fed up And so on this day, she decided and by refusing to give up her seat, she sent a community, our laws, Yes, nine months before Rosa Parks it was a 15-year-old girl that was handcuffed, dragged It was Miss Colvin, not Rosa Parks, and by the way, was also the star plaintiff to testify that went all the way So, I use Claudette's actions although that's not necessarily bad, but I used it as an example of every situation It's a real and perfect example our communities, and the downstream impact that can occur anytime someone elects to move from order. Dr. Serene Jones, in a recent book, She said: &quot;The constant facade of order hides the wilderness that is craving that life wasn't created Beyond words, we must to be taught what cannot So, friends, it's not the discomfort of losing a job, it's not having a child break down but it's order you should fear the most And order-disrupting people like Jesus, Galileo, and maybe even a few of you now, think about this - it's not the complexity-triggering you should fear the most, but it's your own willingness that will dictate the growth but our entire world. Thank you very much (Applause)