K: Would anybody like I really mean it, sir. Q: Sir, may I come? K: Or would you like to come up here? Two gurus. Q: Only one. K: Is this alright? This is the last talk. We're going to talk over together a great many things this morning, and as we said, You and the speaker are partaking, the whole problem, or issues that As we said, not just listening casually but together we are going We've dealt with, in the last two fear and all the travails of man, the problems that we have, those problems and we still carry them. We went into that carefully. The problems exist because therefore there is no freedom This is not the time we went into it very carefully. And also we went into why thought has made this life Thought has brought about wars for two and a half that means practically every year in the name of god, my country against your country, our religion against your religion War after war, here you're fairly but we are facing wars every year. And we also talked about why thought divides man, to do a certain project, To build that rocket, over 300,000 people, everybody doing Either we get together in a crisis or we come together or we come together like earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, Apart from that, Now this morning, that we all get together, and gather energy so that the various issues that we are That means you are to activate our brains forgive me for pointing this out - sluggish, slow, monotonous, So we, together this morning, I'm not insulting, That's only a joke! To keep not only because that gives energy: different forms of walking, and different types but also to have not a specialised brain as a physicist and so on. Those specialised brains I know some friends I hope I'm not insulting them. Or the doctors, or the philosophers You understand? Talk about talks, various Greek philosophers, Philosophy actually according 'the love of truth', 'the love of wisdom'. adding more and more theory, or quoting somebody and explaining All the universities, colleges, are conditioning the brain. I don't know if you've ever gone what it is to learn. Now we're going what it means to learn. We generally mean learning go to school, you memorise you memorise mathematics, All through school, if you're lucky or unlucky to reach that level, And that memory to earn a livelihood, to gain patronage and so on. So what is learning? We know the ordinary school, college, university. Or learning a skill, or a plumber or an excellent cook. There are several who are very good cooks and psychiatrists and physicists here - not in that direction. So, what is learning? Is there another kind of learning which is not merely memorising? Have you ever thought about it? When you're memorising That's simple. So, memory multiplies, you learn more, more, more. We're asking you, he and I: Right, sir? We're asking you: not merely memorising? As we said, we are together, So the speaker is asking you: is there a different kind Q: Understanding is learning, sir. think it through, Is there a different which is not memorising? This is a very important question because the brain records every kind of memory. When you're hurt, it is recorded, but you never enquire who is hurt. So the brain is recording. See the importance of that. It has to record, otherwise So the brain is constantly Now, is it necessary to record? You understand my question? You record an incident in a car; It's instantly recorded, or you are hurt, So, the brain has not only to record, We're asking: is it necessary Or only record that which is Have you put this question to including the physicists and so on. Have you ever considered The brain records for its own security otherwise you and I wouldn't We recorded how long it would take We're asking, it is necessary and totally unnecessary You understand my question, sir? Is it necessary Or when you are insulted? Is it necessary Because the recording Are we talking over together? 'Yes, it sounds rather good'. This is a very serious question. Because the psyche characteristics, ethos, which we call consciousness. In that consciousness, all the activities of memory, So we're asking again is it necessary 'Psyche' means the self. The self being all the memories, the activities of thought, pleasure, sorrow, pain. Which makes up the whole psyche, You understand? Is it necessary to record You don't think So I'm asking, we are asking, I am sorry you are sitting here, Q: If you want. You are sitting there, sir. Have you ever thought or investigated as you would religious matters, gone into If I didn't record - the speaker has driven a car if I didn't... if there was So, it is necessary and totally unnecessary See the beauty of it, so that the brain is not always so that the brain becomes So that's the first question. Learning is not to record. I would like to discuss this We have discussed They were fascinated So that the brain cells You understand? Oh, no. Our brains are built up I'm not a professional - and in the brain cells And we live on those all the remembrance and the older one gets, further and further till you die. Back. And it's rather an important learn to find out whether the brain Not forgetting - the difference are entirely two different matters. So, when you are hurt psychologically, inwardly, You say, 'I am hurt'. Is it new to you? You are all hurt, aren't you? From childhood you are being hurt all the time. You say, 'I can't I've been hurt so much, I build a wall around myself, and all the consequences Now, who is being hurt? Answer this, sir, don't sit there. You're all hurt. Every human being on the earth the scolding, the slapping, All of us have had hurts. Now, who is hurt? Q: Me. K: Don't just answer me, sir, please. Just think it out, sir. You say, 'It's me', Then what is 'me'? You just say, 'Me', 'I', 'ego' - But you don't investigate Who is the persona, who is A name, a degree, if you are a job, a house or a flat - measly little flats, and a title after a name More like MAD - and so on. So the image that you and the images you have built about so when you say you are hurt, Are you clear? No, please, don't be clear But all those images are you. you're a doctor, you're a philosopher, I don't know what an... Have you ever realised 'He's the engineer', Always introduced Do you understand, sir, So the self, the psyche, which you have built about yourself, and the image you have built and she builds an image about you, and these images See what is happening. The images have relationship, not the persons, but the images. And you live on that. So you never know your wife Or you don't care to know, So the question is: can you live about the prime minister, Can you live without a single image? See the implications of it, the beauty of it, There are so many things May we go on? Not just say, 'Yes, go on', you are actively Not just say, 'Yes, let me listen Which you don't really So, we ought to talk about together: why all this effort in life? Why do we make such an immense Do you understand I am asking this gentleman. Why make effort? I've been through all this I've been put through the grind by various forms every kind of person, Why do we make You make tremendous we'll come to that presently - tremendous effort to live, opinion against opinion, I agree with you, Why all this effort? I am asking you, sir, keep awake. For money? For your family? For your affection, that you Why all this effort? When you ask that question, - may I proceed? - you have to ask: what is love? That stumps you. Is love effort? therefore I am going Is love an effort? Then you have to enquire, Do you mind enquiring into this? Do you know what love is? Apparently you don't, What is love? Can there be love Sir, don't... Please, this is serious. This is not for somebody who just wants his own way. Is it ambition? Is it greed? Is it self-centredness? Is it ambitious achievement? Is love the opposite of hate? You know, sirs, from the beginning of time. You see this and the Greek mythology, the good fighting the bad, Do you understand what I am saying? The good fighting the bad. You see it in paintings as symbolised the Devil, In Greek mythology it is a bull against another - black bull against white bull - or the good fighting the evil in We still do that, the good fighting the bad. Right? Don't you do it? Is the good separate from the bad? The good guy and the bad guy. Is the good born out of the bad? Don't look suddenly grave, sir If the good is related to the bad, If the good is born, then it's not good. That is simple, isn't it? But if the bad is totally there is no relationship they have no relationship then there is only Totally divorced from each other, therefore they can't fight. So then we have to enquire, Are you interested in all this? Therefore, you have to ask, Or hate has nothing to do with love. Therefore there is no relationship therefore they can't You understand - this is an important question to delve, to go into it, because you are always saying, 'I have been not good today, 'I have been angry today, This is the relative relationship between the good and the bad. So love has nothing whatsoever Love has nothing whatsoever Where there is hate, pleasure, love cannot exist. And the speaker questions And what is love? You understand my question? Don't you ask that question? Do you really ask that question, Q: The question is with us. Q: Whether we love. Can love exist Careful, sir, don't answer me. Most of us are in sorrow Failing an exam - god, think failing not to be successful or in your relationship or a relationship You understand - upstairs! - which may be your guru So, when you can't succeed, you are depressed, Or you are sorrowful because you you don't know how to read and you don't know or you have no bath, hot bath, We have been through all that. The speaker has been You're all fairly So he suffers. The man in position, nobody pulls down the ladder So he suffers too, because there So everyone on this earth, everyone from the most powerful man they all suffer. Right, sirs? They all suffer. Every woman on earth suffers. Men have pleasure, the women suffer. So, suffering is not yours, because everybody It's not my suffering I wonder if you understand that? My son dies I weep and I say, and that becomes I weep every time I see And I go through the pain Do we ever consider, sorrow which doesn't minimise sorrow And can that sorrow end? As long as I am suffering or I'm not as great or I've got pain in my joints, I'm always suffering about. I'm asking, can that sorrow end? If there is sorrow, Please realise this. If I suffer, suffer, suffer, part of my concern, it is only my sorrow is different like my god is different my guru is stronger that your guru. It becomes a joke. So is there an end to sorrow? Or, mankind must go through Yes, sir. The speaker says it can end, otherwise there is no love. If I'm shedding tears all the time and he's the only son I have, to me the son represents me, my continuity, my property, I had hoped he would become more learned, get more money. We all think the same way, So I suffer. And you come along and tell me, 'Every human being it's not your suffering, old boy, I refuse to accept such a statement I love my sorrow. I'm happy in my sorrow, and I want to be separate So it requires a great deal talking about it, to say, have a little bit of it, That means no self-pity and that means the burden of sorrow Go on, sir - you don't know Think about it, look at it. You are part of humanity, you are not separate You may have a better position, better money, professor, your consciousness That is, your consciousness that you have thought about, Your consciousness is that and that is the consciousness Mankind has fear, sorrow, uncertain, confused - And you are like the rest. So you are not - listen carefully - I know my body is different You are a woman, But we are in the world as one unit. That relationship when you feel then something totally Not just words, imagination, the enormity of it. So we've talked Then we ought to talk about death. Sorry. On a lovely morning, quiet, no train is we are very quiet And to talk about death may seem something They are writing books in America, doctors are doing it, how to die happily. Now together we're going Not just you listen and I talk. So, what is death? Why are we so frightened of it? Why do we keep death or twenty years later, Living, and death? Then you have not only to ask: what is death, what is dying, You understand what I am saying? What you are living. Office from nine to five, or whatever it is, Nine to five except when you retire; And your life is breeding children, sorrow, anxiety, illness, doctors, Caesarean operations, This is our life. Do you deny that? No. And you call this living. Don't look at me This is what we call living. And you support it, you enjoy it. You want more and more of this. So this is what you call living. And you put far away death - as many years away as possible. And in that distance of time you are building up that your children, your grandchildren which you call living. Don't deceive yourself saying that nature struggles Monkeys struggle, You know there is we used to know him we used to know him 'Perhaps we should be So this is what we call living. And I say this to myself why not bring that which you You can't take even your guru, all that you have You can't take it with you. your children, all the silver all the money in the treasury - none of it you can take with you. That's one thing certain: death, and you can't take Except - we won't go into that. So, as you cannot so why not let the two meet? You understand what I'm saying? Not suicide - After all, I'm attached more like it! Sorry to laugh. So, I say to myself, I'm attached to something or other. To my shirt, or to my robe or to some guru, some fantasy, Death comes along 'Old boy, you can't So, why not get totally free Which is death. Totally detached. Today not tomorrow. So, why can't I be free Therefore living and dying I wonder if you see Not ten years later That gives you an immense to your profession, So, living and dying It's not something So, if the brain can do that then there is a totally It has no hooks. It has no sense of the past, I can't go into it now because it is that is, every day is a new day; every morning is And also we should Don't mistake what K is talking about. Future is now. Therefore there is no That is an idea it gives you great comfort, But if you believe in reincarnation act rightly now, because next life you are going If you believe in reincarnation, - it's a very comforting idea because if you act rightly now Righteousness is righteousness, not what you are going That's a merchandise attitude, I won't go into all that because we have some What is religion? Sir, this is one of the most There are temples mosques all over the world, and their priests beautifully garbed, This has been one of the problems The priest and the king. The priest wanted power. The king also wanted power. But the priest was stronger because he was the one and the king had to obey him or he was supposed to be. And gradually the king said, and so there was a war This is historical - And the king won. But the priest also You know all this, don't you? And the popes have three crowns So, there was a conflict in So, the priest was put out. So, they had to be religious. Religion has been built. It had a very complicated but now it has become a symbol, In this country, worshipping a symbol. This is repeated all over the world, over and over again - And is that religion? Christian, Buddhist Or religion is something I'm sorry to upset all of you. Going to the temple the Muslim calling five times a day and the Buddhist and so on. Is that religion or is religion It has nothing whatsoever to do Because all these because the priests so he put on new hats, new clothes, or shaved their head. So, all that is called religion. To an ordinary thoughtful man, he will say, 'That's rubbish, If he discards all that, being a Hindu, with all his worship, prayers, And the Christian does, then what is religion? He is a serious man, he is not just a wordmonger - So what is religion? We're talking over together - the speaker is not laying down he says, let us talk about it, let's go into it. Our brains are chattering Never a second when it is quiet. Chattering, chattering, or perpetually in action. You know that, don't you? And there is never And that silence 'Ram, Ram' When you repeat, repeat, repeat, Right? Do you agree to this? When you repeat something mechanical and you repeat the word, and gradually your brain through and that quietness is something Do you understand what I am saying? Or are we awake This repetition constant repeat, repeat, repeat, makes not only the body, the organism And when it becomes dull, My golly! So, if you discard for the speaker like going to a circus - But we're sharing it together, we're talking about it together. I am not persuading you, So, we have to enquire Silence allows space. Space. So we have to go into the question and whether there is You understand? You understand, sir? We are not telling you Your meditation now The meaning of the word 'meditation' in a dictionary you will think over, weigh, And also it means 'measure', So, meditation now is, repetition, making the mind dull, Because it is dull, And you think you've achieved And you go round And the poor gullible people So, we're going to consider It is five minutes past ten. Am I working or are you working? Q: Together. Q: We are sure. K: Meditation is to cultivate this dullness. And therefore gradually make And if you feel quiet, you say, For the speaker that is Don't ask how to meditate. It is like asking a carpenter If he is a good carpenter, So, we are not asking but we are asking what is meditation? Not how, but what is meditation? As is generally practised, And you say, I don't know what that means So, when you compare, 'ma' as I said means 'I was this today, That is measurement. So, measurement has Measurement has a great place Measurement is necessary in all technology, or the most complicated trajectory Measurement is necessary. So we are saying, from all comparison Now, this is difficult because meditation is something if you know what to do The meditator is different As long as there is a meditator, You understand all this? Because the meditator how he is progressing, 'I hope I will be better tomorrow', in meditation Once you have seen this for yourself, the beauty of it, the depth of it, So, the practice of meditation Sitting on the banks and looking... making the mind and say, 'Yes, I've spent an hour, and you prostrate to him, By the way, That's most undignified, You can hold my hand but not the feet of somebody, So, meditation is something as you practise a violin, a piano. In singing you practise. That means that you want to reach And in meditation there is no level, Therefore it is not a conscious, I wonder if you understand all this. There is a meditation totally, if I can use the word, It is not a deliberate process. We can spend a lot of time a whole day, the whole And also we ought because meditation is that. Space - we have Have you realised that, sir? There is space between two struggles, but still within the sphere What is space? Does space contain time? Or, time includes all space. We talked about time. May I just briefly go over it, though it is nearly don't blame me afterwards Time - I am going if you don't understand it all the memories, all the quarrels, and the long, two and a half all that is yesterday. And the present is the environment, All the past is modified by events now. And the future is modified, is reshaped in time as the future. So the past modifying becomes the future. So, all time, the future, is contained in the now. Don't agree, please, It is a tremendously because it demands action say, 'Yes, I'm going home...', The whole of time - the future, So, action changes 'I will be good tomorrow'. So all action, all thought, all time is now. We went into that. So what is space? Don't imagine it imagining space is this, I must tell a very good joke. Q: Please, please. K: This happens to be hell, and I am not pointing at anybody! The devil is far in the corner Christian devil and there are two people One says to the other, Hell - very hot. 'Yes, it's very hot but dry heat'. No joke? Funny people. I have got lots of jokes, So what is space? If space contains time Then it is circumscribed, So, can the brain Sir, this is such an important, You don't seem to gather it. If life, all life is contained you see what it means? All humanity is you. All humanity, anxiety, pain and so on. His consciousness is you. Your consciousness, There is no you and me, So, is there an end to time? Not to the clock, To the whole movement of time. Time is movement, Thought is a series of movements, So we are asking: yesterday, tomorrow, etc. So, is there an end to time? Which means So, which means So, is there an end to experience? Which is total freedom. And this is meditation - not sitting on the banks That's all too childish. This demands a great deal but an insight - don't use insight into all this - the physicist, the artist, the painter, the poet and so on Limited, small. We are talking about So this is meditation,