- Formula one has been a hotbed for automotive engineering for decades. F1 engineers are the best of the best. And right now, the best of the best of the best is Mercedes AMG Petronas. Since F1 transitioned to V6 Mercedes has won the Some of that comes from a talented driver, like Lewis Hamilton, but we've seen other in the Merc too. Heck we've even seen and gain almost a full So what is Mercedes doing differently to make them so dominant? Well, even though their there are some things that stay pretty consistent. So today we're gonna look We're gonna break down their aerodynamics, their engine efficiency, and the innovation that they (mellow music) (electric current buzzing) Thanks to Raycon for of &quot;Bumper To Bumper&quot;. You know, life can get noisy sometimes. Say you just wanna take a sit in your nice chair, enjoy the weather. And then some dude rolls and just ruins the peace and quiet. (car idling) - Jerry, Jerry it's me, Nolan Port. Jerry, don't make me get - But thanks to Raycon and I can just pop these bad boys - Jerry, Jerry- - And what's even better of those other premium ear buds. So that's pretty awesome and better yet, Raycon offers a free 45 day return policy. So you got nothing to lose. Go to buyraycon.com/bumper and My time's up - Jerry. Jerry! - And before we get too far into this, I wanna mention on Mercedes AMG Petronas, we can't say with 100% certainty how they're beating everyone, because if we could I'd have a job at Alpha Romeo right now, if you need some engineering This will be a look at what from the other cars on the field why those differences might and why other teams just to match Mercedes. And we're gonna start off in the aero department, And over the years it's gotten to be a pretty complicated subject. But before we can start talking about what makes the Mercedes we first need to paint a picture of what F1 air dynamics Crash course in F1 aerodynamics theory. Here we go. Aero on a modern F1 car The front wing, the The front wing is where it all starts. It's the first part of the And it dictates how the air And now the front wing is super specific and this is why you just can't copy another team's front wing. 'Cause it doesn't match up So the front wing has got to create front end downforce sending But it's also got to channel that air to vital components like the and high speeds make the Sometimes a car can go so of air flow so much that it of air, some air strays that's the boundary layer and the rest gets sent over the car. That's what's generating or downforce. And in between, well, there's little gaps of nothing creating a towards it from the nice And that's known as our laminar air, some of the laminar air detaches and tries to randomly fill the voids bouncing all over the place. And this is what's called turbulence. Turbulence air is bad, you don't want it. It's unpredictable, and it's really, really hard to avoid. Turbulent air is like when and then the ad comes in. But what if I told you that we can make a special while still acting like laminar air? Well, we've got one of and a vortex is a spiral of It still acts like laminar air, and if it's shot into that vacuum pocket, it can essentially stitch our And this is why modern front All those little winglets and veins are creating to exactly where the So, the front wing is And one of the places the air The floor of an F1 car The center portion is flat for minimal turbulence, but upwards to give the whole car the effect of a giant wing. The floor has plenty of channeling panels and little venturi style funnels to get the air under So suck the car to the ground. And F1 cars even send a little vortices down the sides of the floor to act like invisible side And finally all this fast moving air gets to the back of the car talking about two different The rear wing is getting loads of clean air to create massive amounts of downforce to press those and the rear diffuser, in the downforce by funneling air out from underneath the car very cleanly, even the exhaust, it to mellow it out, mellow exhaust. It's like a quiet fart. Now the rear wings' main job is downforce, but we already know that just like with the front wing, and can create a vacuum behind the car that would literally That's why modern rear wings and cutouts and that's to create vortices to cancel out low pressure zones. If you look closely, you can actually see off the top corners of an F1's rear wing. All of this can vary from track to track. At a high speed circuit like for low drag and straight line speed. At a high temperature the wing angles will be of the engine and the brakes. So that's the basics of aero in F1, but what makes the The main difference that that it's a long boy, like (giggling) Having a longer car gives with aero because they to make their aero work. And if you need to channel air from the front wing to the brake ducts and the brake ducts are few you don't need as severe of an angle in your winglet to make that correction. You create less turbulence and less drag. It also helps with packaging. The space inside the rear of the engine and the gearbox, air needs to be channeled to the rear wing. With a longer car, Mercedes around the gearbox more and And finally, you got the floor. Now, remember how I said it Well, if your wing is bigger, Now all of this is totally like red bull, who has been long hailed as the F1 aero kings. Red bull cars are short with a high rake to help them get around but Mercedes' technical that what the Mercedes lose they make up with the It's a numbers game. So you've gotta sacrifice So Mercedes takes a to aerodynamics than most but the aero isn't what Let's look at what blew And that's the engine. Since 2014 F1 has been using 1.6 liter V6 turbo hybrid engines, revving over 12,000 RPM and making 900 horsepower. That alone is pretty wild and what's even wilder is and Mercedes is on a whole nother level. There're probably a few secrets to Mercedes engines that to the public. Maybe we'll find out that living inside one of their And his name is Louis Hamstersten. One of the things that's often overlooked about the Mercedes engine is hidden right in the team's name, Petronas. Petronas is the company that supplies fuel for the Mercedes team, but not just that. They also provide all the fluids and lubricants for their engines. In 2017, Mercedes achieved which is crazy. That is huge. To put that in perspective the average engine is lucky Thermal efficiency is a measurement how much potential energy versus how much of that as usable power. A lot of times that in the engine, creating heat, and good engine oil can This means that the there's less wear on the components and it gets better fuel economy. Now, I know, you're like thinking, okay, what do I care about fuel economy and an F1 car while it's racing? But it's more important than you think. The current F1 regulations Current cars can start the race And if you drive balls to you won't make it to the end of the race. If your engine is more fuel with less fuel and be lighter Or you can turn the and make more power. There's a good chance that is where Mercedes If you watch freakin' F1, Mercedes have a party to usually qualify the fastest. 'Cause it just dumps as I'm guessing, into the engine. Mercedes also optimized the F1 turbos are pretty unique already. They're wired up to the hybrid system, so the turbo can charge but the system can also work in reverse. The hybrid unit can spool but Mercedes took a look and they realized they can They separated the compressor And they put them on either ends of the V and the engine block, and they ran a drive shaft between them. This got the compressor away meaning it got denser And that also meant that to the intercooler. On road cars, you'd call this Basically this means that one section of the car and another section is That way you don't have any with any of the cool air into the motor. With better thermal efficiency, the engine is also running cooler. Now, anyone who knows or follows F1, knows that Mercedes' on hot days, but it's that has an issue, it's brake 2014 was when the new engines came about and it was when Mercedes started absolutely destroying the competition. While running the 2012 and 2013 seasons, they spent their efforts So while everyone else the Mercedes engineers had and come up with new radical ideas. In 2018, Mercedes came out with a new design for their wheel. It was a design that channeled air through the wheels to keep them cool and to help control tire temperatures. What they did was add a set This wheel spacer was on a drilled rotor. And the idea was to get more air flowing through the center of the but also cooling the rear tires. And Mercedes are still finding ways to chase tire management today. In 2020, they came up with their most it's called DAS and it stands And here is how it works. You turn your steering wheel you turn the steering wheel You with me so far? Okay Now you push the wheel And if you pull the wheel towards you, the wheels toe back out, that we aren't 100% sure what advantage Mercedes But there's plenty of theories on how the system could One hypothesis is that it can help them in the tight corners because of their long wheel base. Having a car with a little bit of toe in can help keep the car straight But if the car has a it can help the car dart into the corners. So say I'm in the Mercedes, Hamilton, he retired. Yeah, he's sick of winning. So, I'm snaking my way the nose diving in just right hard on the brakes for turn 11, and then stretched out before by the end of it, we'll be but my steering is set up quick and darty and I don't want that. So I accelerate, the cheer by the roar of my Mercedes engine, I go with the G forces and pull my steering wheel towards me, straightening up the front minimizing scrub, and I like this theory, but it would require the every single lap. And that is not what where they seem to be using it is during a safety car period. When a race becomes unsafe a safety car will come out and they continue in a while the hazards get The problem with that is that at high speed. They need heat to stay sticky. And if you're going slow, they cool down. But with DAS, the Mercedes so that their tires scrub This creates friction and So when the race starts up again, everyone else is on cold time. But the Mercedes, they can drive off into the sunset getting first - Have not seen these yet, so. (suspenseful music) hoodie, who's that handsome boy? Man, what a good looking hoodie. We reworked the logo a little bit, now it's in yellow, really we added an arm hit so you I'm gonna rock mine all fall, all winter, go to donutmedia.com and get you one. They're probably gonna sell out, so I would get it sooner than later. - That's it guys. We did it, we figured it out. We know now why Mercedes All we need to do is you and we can go out and make I designed the car to engineer, Zach and his roommates James would be the team principle, Nolan would be the guy he'd pat you on the back, you did a good job. Okay, follow me on follow us @donutmedia, bye for now.