July 20th, 1969. Apollo 11 touches down on the. The eagle has landed. Bringing with it the very first humans to It's one small step for man. One giant leap for mankind. On that very first mission, astronauts Neil that remains to this day unexplained. There was a kind of a bright cloud existing Aldrin described this strange glow on the could see in either direction. Scientists are baffled. What are these things? I don't know. Maybe we're not right about Despite being our closest celestial neighbor. There is much about the moon that is In total, humans have only spent 80 hours on We have made a superficial inspection only And the dark side remains a mystery. But almost 40 years after Armstrong's Launched by India. The Chandrayaan one lands on the surface of On board is NASA's moon Mineralogy mapper, In 2018, NASA announced definitive proof from moon. I mean, we've been looking for water for the right place and the right way and found Water is the elixir of the cosmos. Where there is water, there is very possibly Ever since the end of the Apollo program in to the moon? Is it worth returning? This discovery is a real lunar game changer. But it's not just the possibility of life on Water is fuel. Today we have a modern day gold rush. Not for gold, but for water, because in Experts now fear a deadly stampede to conquer And you wanted it may have been delivered to It should have evaporated right into space. There's no atmosphere there to help trap it. And so it basically escapes. And yet the NASA probe has mapped out surface. At the polar regions, there are locations because there are deep craters there. And within those craters are places called In those locations, ice can remain there for Scientists now have an astonishing theory as A plausible way for there to be water at the actually escaped out of the moon. This could finally explain the mysterious If it's gas coming out of the interior, one So you have water escaping out of the And that's really exciting. It's possible that vast quantities of water of the time when it was a hot and And this water escapes to the surface as To find any sort of water on the surface of Besides, Earth is a huge, huge discovery. Discovering water on the moon is like valuable than that. Besides the possibility of lunar life, water to propel humans much further, much Propulsion engineer Tim Pickens explains the water to create an explosion that can fire a These are solar panels, very standard. You take normal water, take an electrolyzer stainless steel plates. You can use electricity and actually here. After separating the water's hydrogen and the top. This doesn't look like a lot of gas, but it The balloon is carefully placed on the All right. Stand back and get ready. We're going to light this candle. Oh, man, that's powerful. The explosion here is small but scaled up and Water fuel is expected to revolutionize There's a trick to this. All right. So we've got our oxygen and I've here. This combust these gases. You ready? All right. Hydrogen oxygen with exciter in three, two, Wow, that is real rocket thrust. This thing is amazing. It runs on hydrogen and oxygen that we can This motor could go on a rocket today. And there's a huge advantage to having this earth. To get off the earth. A rocket has to have something like 80 or Weight is propellant. On the moon. You have one sixth of the gravity. That means it takes about one sixth of the gravity to go somewhere else. It's almost like the moon becomes a gas fuel tanks and continue on to another Water is too heavy to carry up from Earth. But if the moon can act as a lunar gas exploration changes. The problem is who owns this huge reserve of Who does this water belong to and who gets to And now there is a race to get back to the And the race is not just between the US and Now it's China and India. Space X, whatever. Business wise, the moon is starting to look This is a prize worth fighting for. The gold rush is on. The moon could become the gateway to the fear it may spark the first great space war.