(bright music) - Welcome to Solid Edge 2025 and thank you for joining us. I'm Dan Staples, vice president of Solid Edge R&amp;D, part of Siemens Digital Industry Software. And today we're going to capabilities, and enhancements and see how Solid Edge can help Here at Siemens Digital Industry Software, we're all about helping into a digital enterprise and that digital transformation is enabled by products in the Siemens Solid Edge is a key part of the portfolio and is focused on the and mid-size manufacturers. Digital transformation We enable manufacturers to create a comprehensive and includes solutions electrical design, and publications. Solid Edge also includes for all the technical data when supporting the It facilitates collaboration both within manufacturing companies and with external resources, including suppliers and customers. Solid Edge is truly your on-ramp Solid Edge 2025 is packed to boost your productivity, simplify your workflows, and give you the flexibility Whether you're tackling or with sheet metal or Solid Edge 2025 delivers. Here you can see some highlights I'd like to point out just a few. First, Solid Edge X, the Solid Edge software you in a secure SaaS environment. With automatic updates and cloud-based built-in data management, Solid Edge X is designed to reduce your IT complexity and costs. Solid Edge assemblies managed to 50% faster with and the ability to get to work Bend deduction and bend your sheet metal designs from the digital twin And hybrid annotation is for placing a combination of dimensions and feature control frames. From flexible licensing options and enhanced design tools, to improved interoperability across the Siemens Xcelerator portfolio, Solid Edge 2025 helps you unlock potential and innovate without limits. Our beta customers have to experience the power Romain from Chantiers de He likes the new filtering Adding that Solid Edge 2025 is full of great improvements. As we go through all that's we'll be highlighting for this year's release, Tremonia Mobility. With over 20 years of experience of more than 25,000 units produced, Tremonia designs environmentally friendly and customizable mini shuttle services, and travel. Based in Dartmouth, Germany, Tremonia is known for their and sustainable solutions. And with that, I would like to thank you And I'll pass it over to my team to tell you all about Solid Edge 2025. - Thanks, Dan, and welcome everybody to the launch of Solid Edge 2025. I'm Brian Massey, Senior Product Marketing Manager for Siemens Digital Industry Software. And I'm joined today by Sudha Srikakolapu, Senior Product Manager for Solid Edge. We're excited to share with you how Solid Edge 2025 helps So let's jump right in and Sudha. - [Sudha] Solid Edge X in a secure SaaS environment, offering all the features you love in a flexible experience and cloud data management. Solid Edge X is designed to Here is a short video. - [Narrator] Designing today's smarter, more complex products requires powerful computer-aided software, traditionally with upfront seat licenses, high performance workstations, and dedicated IT support. Those upfront costs can but Solid Edge X, a revolutionary new addition to the Siemens Xcelerator delivering the power of Solid Edge in a secure SaaS environment. Solid Edge X offers the industry and takes it to the next level by integrating cloud-based solutions. With Solid Edge X, you get all the advanced functionalities of Solid Edge with the additional benefits of a cloud-based, flexible, ensuring your design secure, and up to date. Without the need for expensive Siemens delivers, manages, and updates Solid Edge X so you don't have to, enabling you and your engineers to focus on what you do best. Innovate with enhanced and built-in data management. Solid Edge X ensures your efficiently and securely. Solid Edge X also offers the ability to scale up your PLM capabilities to Teamcenter as needs grow. Leveraging the power of Solid Edge X delivers AI that provides in-app product help, enabling you to quickly and easily find the improving efficiency and But most of all, Solid Edge X offers the and innovate like never before. It can be downloaded to your computer with storage in the cloud, allowing you to work and individual user licenses allow you to access your data wherever, whenever. Paired with value-based licensing, Solid Edge X offers even more flexibility with immediate access to a through cost-effective token bundles, a flexible SaaS experience, simplified IT, AI productivity and seamless scalability. The powerful design tools in your hands with Solid - With Solid Edge X, we are continuing to let that work best for you, your team, and your customers. Built on common core set of capabilities, Solid Edge X standard, each add functionality to meet the needs of the most demanding design teams. With a flexible experience, secure data and seamless scalability, Solid Edge X gives you the - Solid Edge X gives you the and those tools keep getting better with Solid Edge 2025, especially Solid Edge Take your design to the next featuring improved productivity, enhanced user experience, and cutting edge features of your workflow with faster integration, more intuitive tools, and advanced sheet metal, and MBD enhancements You can see here how Solid from Ariel is already He says Solid Edge 2025 With simplified and refined workflows, he and his team can design allowing them to be more productive while saving additional time. All right, let's dive into how Solid Edge 2025 without limits. Design faster with more get to work faster with and design better with Open Solid Edge assemblies to 50% faster with and get to work quickly a large assembly dataset like our Tremonia electric with data managed in with the improved performance. The quick pattern option brings easy to use synchronous patterning allowing you to create patterns Whether you're working in building patterns is A number of enhancements have been added for applying face styles, add, edit and create face style overrides on parts directly in or simply drag and drop a style from the style palette onto part bodies. Also a new style picker has been added, allowing you to sample styles directly in the graphics window and apply or save them to the materials Synchronous copy and to eliminate the need streamlining operations. New selection modes have been making it quicker to select edges or vertices with a fence select. The new pack all command duplicate parts and pathfinder, giving you a cleaner, more organized assembly view. The improved bomb view simplifies and organizes your pathfinder structure, saving you time and effort Expanded dialogue searches throughout Solid Edge 2025 allow you to locate elements within a pop-up window with a simple keyword or phrase search, making tasks like applying Searching within a large Thanks to the ability to and the graphics window when you search for a with new active filtering, the graphics window and pathfinder filter to match your choice, showing the results and Elevate sheet metal design with Solid Edge 2025 Now and bend allowance in for sheet metal with options to select the bend calculation method, edit in the spreadsheet, and customize settings. This ensures your designs from the digital twin to physical part, minimizing errors. The inquire elements command now supports the new bend calculation methods with a bends-only option, allowing users to retrieve and display useful information calculation method, Excel file information, and neutral factor. Wrap sketch enhancements enable placing etches on all faces touched by the wrapped input geometry, guaranteeing curves improving wraps around closed loop faces. Speed and simplify MBD creation. Solid Edge 2025 offers allowing for easier dimensioning Hybrid annotation is for placing a combination of dimensions and feature control frames. You can add supplementary and below feature control and full preview available. The subscript and superscript in settings for later usage. Surface texture symbols have been updated to comply with updated ISO standards. Symbols are easily accessible The enhanced support standard compliant MBD information for downstream processes. Autodimensioning has also been with the ability to to virtual intersections of and the center points of inter fillets. It can also dimension parts giving you more flexibility Customize your design experience The user interface has been refined to give you a cleaner, Personalize your experience by customizing context toolbar Keep frequently used and minimize or resize to maximize your design space. The cleaner, crisper user and a simplified vertical command bar where buttons are arranged horizontally for clear indication of available options. Finally, the Discovery Center, an online centralized hub documentation, community resources, and more fully embedded in to a wide range of resources helping you stay up to date with all things Solid Edge with news and updates about the latest From improved productivity to streamlined operations, sheet metal enhancements and a modern user experience. Solid Edge 2025 empowers you Now, let's throw it over to senior application to walk us through some for our other Solid Edge products. - Let's take a look at some in the Solid Edge portfolio. First, Solid Edge CAM Pro to enhance productivity New tool assembly in the Cloud Connect to build and save tool making them instantly Also new is an intuitive where toolpaths are as soon as you select a face to mill. Make machining suggestion letting AI create fully edible operations with the single click, saving you time while still For whole drilling, the improved feature-based and operation selection fully automatic, streamlining complex processes in seconds. And with the new quick roughing feature, advanced adaptive roughing and efficiently to remove Solid Edge CAM Pro now offers the most advanced CNC integrating cutting edge technology for superior precision and ease of use, helping you maximize shop productivity Simcenter FLOEFD for Solid Edge that make integration and handling complexity easier than ever. With advanced support for importing Flotherm XT projects, you can now transform models directly into Simcenter FLOEFD without saving you time and effort. Simply export the X2ml project and open it in Solid Edge, seamlessly recreating and importing key inputs and heat sources. The new EFD API lets you to shorten simulation workflows, easily manage materials, start solvers, and view results like surface plots and temperature data automatically. Solid Edge technical to streamline documentation With NX file import integration, you can now work seamlessly across the Siemens Xcelerator portfolio, offering more flexibility in creating detailed technical group illustrations for and to organize storyboards This enhances the clarity Easily replay any step in the storyboard and initiate 3D animations with simple hyperlinks, providing an engaging New clickable hotspots like 3D animations or links while automatic adjustments based on the illustration Plus with the ability to import SVG and PDF graphics for crisp visuals, you have greater flexibility in embedding external resources. Solid Edge design configurator to help you create customized and easier. The enhanced quick actions of input fields and actions, reducing the number of steps and speeding up workflows. With automatic variable management, input fields like dimensions can now pull from a predefined list, saving time when defining key values. Inputs are also automatically updated across all related formulas and actions when their names are changed, ensuring accuracy throughout the design. Input customization tools allow for intuitive control over input styles, images and rules, while new options for default input values help you tailor configurations quickly. The ability to autogenerate drawings using quick sheet templates simplify the process by automatically retrieving Finally, calculate inputs for precise customization. Solid Edge design to create highly tailored faster cutting down time and costs, and helping you bring to life with ease - As you're on-ramp to Solid Edge plays an important role in the Siemens Xcelerator portfolio by providing powerful and accessible tools to help companies of all sizes. It also integrates seamlessly with other portfolio NX, Simcenter, and more to meet your business needs. Let's go back to Ben to see of these portfolio products. - Collaborating with colleagues, partners, and customers has never been easier with new productivity and collaboration enhancements for Solid Edge 2025. Teamcenter Share's rich set of capabilities addresses your from providing your team to enabling ad hoc collaboration with external stakeholders. Thanks to easy email Teamcenter shares column to provide even more In addition to the default columns, Columns such as file type, size, and description can be added. Built-in markup tools make When a change is required, use markup capabilities to communicate those changes directly within Teamcenter Share. Assigning tasks is seamless with new features like tags Task management gets a major upgrade with the enhanced task board, featuring a kanban style interface for easy tracking of project progress. Tasks can now be reordered and status updates are and dropping tasks between categories. The List View also introduces allowing tasks to be sorted by priority and offering additional and tags for better management. Seamless integration and Solid Edge allows users and updates directly within to open a web browser, view markups, make revisions, and update the project status Teamcenter Share ensures that updates are automatically synced and shared with key stakeholders, keeping everyone informed and aligned throughout the design process. Solid Edge and Teamcenter to help you work better together. Solid Edge 2025 also integrates with Capital X Panel Designer, a new browser-based electrical to allow designers and engineers to create electrical schematics Available on any device, Capital X Panel designer and accessible platform to enhance electrical design capabilities, improving workflows and It works even when you automatically syncing This allows you to continue With a team-based dashboard and customizable permissions, you can easily share drawings and communicate better and other stakeholders to ensure With thousands of IEC, Capital X Panel Designer's used in more than 50 countries worldwide and is trusted by engineers to make their jobs easier and faster. Capital X Panel Designer with a modern and so you can become productive and costly training. Capital X Panel designer has to create professional drawings including generating bills of materials, terminal listings, panel layouts and more. Seamless data exchange between Solid Edge ensures component data and routing details and standard X2ml format and precision between platforms with Solid Edge and streamline your electrical and cut costs. - Thanks, Ben. Teamcenter Share serves as the collaboration backbone across the Siemens Xcelerator portfolio with cloud-based tools to centralize data and streamline access across Capital X Panel Designer to the portfolio, providing fully Solid Edge 2025 delivers with Siemens Powerhouses NX and Teamcenter while also expanding support It also provides even more flexibility and the ability to access additional tools through value-based licensing, and Sudha will tell us all about it. - Solid Edge 2025 delivers allowing you to seamlessly work with design data across With enhanced support for or IFC file types, users in the construction and building industry and collaborate on project for complex data translation, ensuring everybody has and accurate information. Classifying building information modeling or BIM components is crucial Collaboration and integration of a building project, Solid Edge 2025 adds support of BIM components based on Necessary BIM properties can be applied inside Solid Edge as needed to satisfy IFC certification requirements, ensuring that Solid Edge models contain the necessary BIM information. Unmatched interoperability and NX allows for seamless data reuse, enabling the transfer of key BMI, and kinematics data across platform. This enhanced flexibility with the best tools for your needs. Section views transferred from Solid Edge to NX can be modified as if they were originally created in NX. Support for the transfer of and multiframe feature control allowing necessary PMI to move easily and quickly between Solid Edge and NX. Finally, sketches can between Solid Edge and NX and Solid Edge CAM Pro for and operations such as quick engraving. Solid Edge 2025 improves interoperability with better IFC import allowing seamless exchange and collaboration across Teamcenter integration for of product lifecycle allowing users to reduce product New for Solid Edge 2025 is Teamcenter Integrated a solution within Teamcenter's that focuses on the efficient throughout a products lifecycle. It provides a centralized system to manage material and compliance across various departments such as engineering, This integration allows you to access material catalogs simplifying the selection process, search and filter materials based on name, description, release status, or even specific or environmental impact. This helps you make informed with both your design goals With the teamcenter, all material information is tracked and synced across your product lifecycle. Whether you're working on initial design, collaborating with teams, or making changes mid process, the latest material in both Solid Edge and Teamcenter. This reduces the risk of errors, rework, and costly calls while ensuring with global environmental regulations. Teamcenter Integrated Materials better, faster, and more all while working to enhance your design And finally, let's take a look at value-based a flexible, cost-effective solution that adopts to your Instead of traditional fixed licenses, you can acquire tokens which of Solid Edge add-on products based on their specific value. This allows you to when you need them. This flexible token-based to new features and capabilities, enabling teams to and maximize productivity all while minimizing The roster of supported Solid to grow with Solid Edge 2025, machine libraries, piping libraries, CATIA V4 and V5 translators, Solid Edge HP and ID design, and Solid Edge piping design with value-based licensing, with Solid Edge design configurator and Solid Edge inspector standard and advanced being added soon. With access to your wide value-based licensing ensures empowering your teams to and explore new capabilities instantly as they become available all while scaling effortlessly to meet future demands. - Thanks, Sudha. From design enhancements, to increase integration across the Siemens Xcelerator portfolio, to the powerful tools of Solid Edge X, we feel like Solid Edge 2025 is one of our best releases yet, and we're not alone in that. Tremonia Mobility who we have highlighted throughout today's video agrees. Here's their head of R&amp;D Christian Wunsch. - Tremonia Mobility is the located in Dartmouth. Our team is responsible for and maintenance of the existing products. Solid Edge enables and validate new products quickly, and therefore we have a With Solid Edge and Teamcenter Share, the design team can collaborate and therefore be very efficient. By using Solid Edge we validate performances and durability of our components quicker and lead to a higher with fewer physical prototypes. With the release of Solid Edge 2025, we will gain a lot of in the design team processes. Within the SaaS environment, Solid Edge X gives us a possibility to perform and manage and backups independently and easily. Value-based licensing will We can use modules when needed, especially standard and express routing will to use it when needed and therefore reduce costs in the company. The design enhancements in Solid Edge 2025 gives to work more intuitive - Thanks, Christian. Siemens is also investing of engineers with two the Hour of Engineering and Pathway to Learning Engineering. Hour of Engineering is that demystifies engineering and promotes it as a desirable career path by providing real world to global goals. It helps students create of mind like creativity, systems thinking, and collaboration. Pathway to Learning Engineering application that empowers and engage students to The pathway includes a engineering design software, classroom management tools, and professional development resources. To learn more, check out the Hour of Engineering and Pathway to Learning As we finish up, I wanna remind you that there are now two You can of course in as traditional or perpetual form, but with the launch of Solid Edge 2025, we now have Solid Edge X with collaborative set of tools, cloud data management, and much more. Now is a great time to take To learn more about Solid Edge X and the benefits it can please reach out to your Siemens partner for additional details. And for those of you who we encourage you to do so It's a full access trial. Just visit siemens.com/try-solid-edge or scan the QR code on your screen. To learn more about Solid Edge 2025 and how it can help you visit us at siemens.com/solid-edge-25 or scan the QR code. If you have any questions or comments, please type them in the chat window. Our team of Solid Edge to answer any of your questions. - [Dan] For Dan Staples, and Ben Weisenberger, I'm Brian Massey and we'd like to thank you