Hello! What's up? Many people ask me for tips to help It may seem like an exaggeration, but really to And a lot of people talk: ...to help in the process of running out of sugar.&quot; So, that's what I broke up here today until the end, which you won't want to lose. First of all, if you're new, be Little bell. Here's new video every day, you If you know someone who's in need that video. Let's go together, me and you, extend this chain with the canal. Many people write to me looking for tips We know sugar is pro-inflammatory, in most people, sugar is very And many people really want to diminish and tell me: of how to solve this.&quot; I separated this video for you here today The first tip I give you is to be careful about Because the food industry has the habit a lot of products. Not just for improving the taste, the palate, is the case of empanadas, sauces, ketchup, mayonnaise, Some of them are added sugar for added sugar to improve time This shelf time is a different way time plus that product can stay until To increase the shelf life a little bit Profit for the industry, of course. So, watch out for industrialized products. Whenever you can, observe the label sugar, syrup, invert sugar... Take a look at the label and, of course, the maximum not too processed is easier. Why am I talking &quot;too processed&quot;? Because it's hard for you to come and talk: Because the rice you buy, even if went through an industrial process. Even if you suddenly consume some by some process. What you really have to avoid is food So, if you can make the most of it focus mainly on vegetables, In cereals, in live foods &quot;in natura&quot;, less sugar in your body and you will The second tip is to be careful with your Because we really have a... A mechanism in our brain to form habits, Our body does that, our brain, The brain is like a computer so he can process the information So let me ask you: Maybe you didn't even notice too well because you're used to it, you're used to it over there, turn this way... You already know the automatic path of how shopping issues that we do. And the food industry knows it. That's why a specific product always color and letter scheme... Even if they change the packaging, the predominant colour the source... For you to enter the habit mode for And that's why some competitors, isn't it? Products that want to imitate others anyway super alike, to see if it gets you in this he's used to it and sometimes he's already fallen for this My tip I give you regarding in a conscious manner. You may have a habit of picking up but try to be aware of the purchases that It doesn't do that on autopilot. And a super cool tip before you go through you can take it from him. Because sometimes you've been putting &quot;Do I really need to buy that?&quot; &quot;So that I'll buy this chocolate bar Do that you'll see that you'll have a I've already given you two tips on what your house, I want to talk a little bit more about to sugar. Why do we feel that urge so This is mainly because sugar secrete neurotransmitters that activate these some kinds of illicit drugs. This might seem a little shocking to some with the cocaine, or nothing like that. But some studies have already been done where they analyzed who used drugs and consumed sugar, and were activated. That is, sugar causes a degree of dependence. For some people it can even cause pain you remove the sugar. That's because sugar is very related insulin and leptin, which regulate this issue And leptin is related, too, precisely, what you eat. And insulin to fat accumulation and when Why what happens? You often have your stocks increases your blood sugar a lot, and you secrete Your blood glucose, your blood sugar, runs out So, what happens? You feel more like eating candy. It's an endless cycle anyway, you get stuck feel good, you need the sugar. Many people get tired without the sugar, From these peaks throughout the day of increase of But we already know that after some... A few days, a week or two, you to have these insulin-related spikes So, once again, you consume good Cutting the sugar is a great step, to to get rid of that addiction. It really does, because then you get better healthy food, as I told you before consuming the sugar. Since you're not consuming it in natura, All this effort you're making hidden away in one of those industrialized Still on that biological issue, brain&quot; by some people, because he And the intestine also secretes dopamine. Secrets several neurotransmitters that will their roles of activating these areas of And depending on what you eat, you can So, watch out, once again, for that question will make your bowel more Then more bacteria can get in. Pathological even to his bloodstream, you more inflamed. So, one way to reverse this for you to have such a great desire to consume sugar, as I've already told you, plus add Kefir is a great option for you to add. I even got video here on the channel talking about that. I'll leave it down here in the description the kefir, and other videos where I talk more The description, if you don't know, I'm video name, a little arrow, click there, go information to help you even more. And lastly, a big tip I want that process. When we talk about giving up sugar, sweet. A lot of people confuse that. There are several sweets that are made completely I have several of them here on the canal, even, A lot of them without sugar, without sweetener, as a replacement. Which, too, is completely optional. You may not use, in many cases. I'm gonna leave down here a playlist for With these videos of these recipes, because make this change of taste, biological neurotransmitters, these hormones in your term, sustainable. There's no point in you radicalizing and getting one in temptation because you were dying So, more interesting is you making a These tips that I want to leave here for in the description too to help you. And you, now tell me down here, Do you look good without sugar? You trade salted food for sugar? Do you have any moment in your life, or in your month, of more sugar? Tell me down here, I'm gonna love it Share this video with whom you know Let's go together, me and you, extend this chain with the canal. And also, isn't it? Speaking of helping each other, enjoy the video, Sign up for the channel and activate the bell, here About various tips of good shape, health, as you just saw. See you next time. Bye, bye.