(instrumental music) - I think the story of Price Phillip is a completely extraordinary story, and it's very little known. People have been watching Prince Phillip, most people for most of their lives, but they have seen him as at the right time with the right uniform, and walked one step behind the Queen, but that's basically it, and in retrospect of course, we regard the Queen's reign as But, if you do regard the the joint author of that success - And what people I think today forget, is quite where he's come from, you know he was a Greek Prince. - [Gyles] His grandfather his father in the year was arrested and put and was due to be executed. - The family then had to flee the country with the help of the they stayed on the outskirts of Paris. - And before Prince Phillip the parents had split up. - His father then left his mother, he went to the South of he had girlfriends down there. His mother had schizophrenia and was locked up at - And Prince Phillip then because his sister's within the each of them had married a different German Prince of some kind, and so Prince Phillip then between his relatives in Germany, that became more difficult and in England. - He was sent to Cheam Prep and he was there until he was 12, and at that point, one who was married to the where they ran a school, she asked that Prince Phillip go to Salem, which in some ways we as strange decision because it was eight months after Hitler had seized power in Germany but anyway, he went to Germany and he was there for two and then he was sent up where Kurt Hahn who had founded Salem, but had fled to England, he had started this Gordonstoun, where Prince Phillip was one of the first pupils. - He had quite a solitary childhood, in that he was at boarding his family were all overseas and he was very much left He had the great influence of Kurt Hahn, who was his Headmaster at Gordonstoun, and was a hugely formative But, you know, he never he didn't have much in the way of family, certainly around him. - I was shown visitors book, by his first cousin, Countess Mountbatten, from the 1930's where he signed but in the address column, And I saw that in more than one book, he was conscious that And so, though he was for several years, when he he didn't see his mother no birthday card, nothing and his father had disappeared. He had loving sisters, but perhaps the one he loved most, or certainly one of his sisters, was killed in an airplane crash. - [Reporter] At a single one of the oldest of has been almost completely wiped out, an airliner carrying his wife and babies, struck while on its way from Brussels It crashed through the factory roof and burst into flames. There was not one survivor. - Then his uncle, who was the older brother of Lord Mountbatten, uncle George, he died of So his parent's had disappeared, his godfather, uncle died of cancer, his sister had been killed and yet he just carried on, and he would not complain about this ever. - He was brought up very Lord Mountbatten, and his His sisters, who were all 20 plus years older than him, lived in Germany, so he had a very dysfunctional So, Lord Mountbatten, Louis Mountbatten became his father figure effectively, and he was hugely important - But he wasn't his father. As he said to me &quot;I had perfectly good father, excellent mother&quot;. - He has spoken very and about his boyhood. And it was different, times and an upper-class is not like any kind - His mother was the I mean, before Prince Phillip was born, she had acted like a sort of Florence Nightingale type nurse, on the front during the Balkan Wars, where she set up hospitals. During the Second World War, she was one of the few people to stay on, I mean certainly one of the to stay on in Athens during She sheltered very much, she sheltered a Jewish She as later awarded by Israel, the award of Righteous Among Nations, which is the same award - Prince Phillip was once having saved Jews from And he replied that it was just something that any decent person would do. And I think that gives a And you know, the fact this is how people should behave. - In my own life, I have always tried to reach and community, to extend a helping hand, wherever one might be needed. This was probably ingrained due I suspect to my grandmother, who had courageously in her apartment in Athens, And who incidentally is buried Righteous Among the Nations, in Jerusalem. (camera clicking) - But she ended her life She came and lived with the Queen and Prince Phillip at Buckingham Palace. A bit eccentric in my view, because she dressed as a Nun. You knew when she was of Buckingham Palace, &quot;We could smell the (chuckles) She would of Buckingham Palace, dressed as a Nun. I regard that as a bit eccentric, but Prince Phillip regarded And Princess Anne, and Prince Charles, have wonderful affectionate So, Prince Phillip's view yes it was a difficult time in Europe, but, he went to a good school, he'd been to a good school in Germany, he had a good loving family, That was his view of life, - It was probably because of Mountbatten that Phillip went into the Navy. - There was a great would go into the Navy. Although, initially, he had - He said that the real passion (instrumental music) (helicopter engine roaring) - And if you look at the record, I think he spent as much time in the air, as you would have done during a professional career in the RAF. He went on flying until he was you know, well beyond middle age. (instrumental music) And he flew every type of aircraft. That was one of his passions. - If he had done, it's very likely he would have been killed But anyway, he joined the Navy. - He was a student at and he was 18. Blond, beautiful, and asked to look after and entertain Elizabeth - The whole history of the is fascinating, of course. One because it began but also because, Phillip is I mean, we talk a lot about The father a dissolute princeling who squandered the family resources on the gaming tables at Monte Carlo, and the mad mother, who ended up as a Nun. But Phillip was very high born, well born. In many ways, better credentials - They met on a handful of because they were both in the wider sort of Their most significant took place in 1939, when at Dartmouth, a Naval Cadet at Dartmouth, and the royal Family were sent on a visit. And so there was King George VI, the Queen and his two daughters, the elder of whom was Princess Elizabeth. - [Reporter] As the Royal glides into the mouth of the River Dart, memories must be revived for his Majesty. For the King himself was a in the years before the great war. Later in the afternoon, each plants a tree in The King a Purple Beech, and Princess Elizabeth a Whitebeam. - There was an outbreak of mumps, at the college at the time, so, the two Princesses were kept apart and were sent to the Captain's house, where they were to be And it was Louis Mountbatten, who's Prince Phillip's uncle and he was the King's ADC and he also engineered it that his nephew would be the one that would look after them and so on. - And they had a lovely time with him and I think Elizabeth, at that point, actually, even has a 13-year-old, fell hugely for this very - Of his age group, he was regarded young officer's in the Navy. He was brave, quick thinking. (soft music) (grenade exploding) - Serving in the Second mentioned in dispatches, being - [Reporter] Reticent and nervous, Shigemitsu signs the of an unbroken dynasty, during which no foreign troops - He was, decorated during - He had a good war, He was mentioned in he fought with distinction And he is of course part - And all of that I think had (soft music) - And it wasn't actually until about 1943, when he stayed at Windsor during the war. There was one Christmas where he had basically other than to his cousins, the British Royal Family at Windsor. And there it was observed that there was a definite between the two of them. - And she maintained the and her parents were not particularly when she eventually announced that she was in love with him, because, he was a bit of a wayward Prince and he had a lot of German connections and after the war, that But Elizabeth was absolutely - There was more to it than the passion that drew them together. I mean, Phillip was a product I think it's a lot about (grenade exploding) And I think that shaped his personality and his ability to cope I mean, if you've been at sea, at war, my guess is, as someone is that you can pretty And I think it was that that appealed hugely - Lord Mountbatten was a And there's no doubt at by the possibility of his nephew, Prince Phillip of Greece, to the potential Elizabeth But, Prince Phillip himself, always denied that Lord Mountbatten was a - [Reporter] At Northolt meets Princess Alice of Greece. The Princess is the mother of Lieutenant Phillip Mountbatten, formerly Prince Phillip of Greece. She has come to stay with her mother, the Dowager Marchioness of Milford Haven. Before leaving Paris, Princess or deny the possibility of a marriage between Phillip and Princess Elizabeth. - The King and Queen, they were won over, because although he was boisterous, and a little bit cheeky and he had plenty of sort of appealing sort of traits that he liked. He admired his forthrightness, his courage, his plain speaking. - When Prince Phillip and the question came about You know, he's gonna cease to because he's gonna assume And he had to have a name, - Of course he was born with His father was of that descent, and that was was hardly going to go down very well with the British public, so soon after the war, so it was decided that a better name for him to take would be - They chose the name Mountbatten, because it had a British ring. Of course until the First World War, the family name had been Battenberg, but it was now Mountbatten. So they took this name, even though it was the rather than his father's side, Prince Phillip was happy with that and he married as Phillip Mountbatten, and ceased to be a Greek Prince and indeed he says he didn't become a British Prince for ten years. (soft music) - [Reporter] And now The Princess had been in the What followed the service of a state occasion. It showed that this was but that of a King's daughter. - During the early years of their marriage they lived in Malta and that was where he was stationed, and that was always said - The Queen, thought she was leading the life, almost like a, you know, Like normal Naval people, as normal as you can be if you're a member of the Royal Family. They had their first family, Prince Charles and Princess Anne, before the Queen became Queen, at the end of the 1940's. when Prince Phillip was enjoying in the Royal Navy and moving rapidly up to become a senior - Several people, said that he would have almost certainly - Lord Lewin, who was a and went on to become said that Prince Phillip become the Head of the Navy, and indeed possibly of as his Uncle Lord Mountbatten had done. That would have been impossible. The Press would have said it was nepotism, you know, it would never have happened. (soft music) - They would have expected a good 20 years or so of relatively free They had a lovely time and then suddenly the King got ill, Prince Phillip had to which was, I think he said later, you know one of the most And then the King died, and Prince Phillip was essentially then in a kind of prison - The moment the Queen was Prince Phillip was there. He was the one who and from then on you know, he took her under his wing if you like. He was the person who supported her through that terribly difficult time. (soft music) (car door banging) - Everything changed and He had a Naval career that He had now, no set What part did he have to play? And I think it took him a Those were I think trying times for him. - Here is a man, who had at which he excelled, which He could have gone a long, long way, but he gave it up because she became Queen and he needed to be her Consort, to walk two paces behind her. - And it's not an easy Always being a couple of yards behind, being called your Royal Highness when your wife is Your Majesty. It cant be easy. (instrumental music) - The Queen moves to her Chair of Estate, assisted by her six maids of Honor. (orchestral music ) - And there had been an from Prince Philip, certainly the Mountbatten side of his family, that the House would take As in the case of Queen Victoria, the House became the House of Saxe-Coburg, as in Prince Albert's family name. But that wasn't the case this time round. The idea was to stick with - His uncle Louis Mountbatten that the House of Mountbatten now reigns and this was quickly stamped upon. Prince Phillip hadn't been but wanted at least some his newly acquired Dukedom of Edinburgh to be somehow attached but that was rejected as well. So the Royal Family stayed as it was and Prince Phillip felt utterly sort of pushed to one side really. - And he said &quot;what am I, no So I think life was and I think that the establishment were against him a lot of that time. - It was understandable that people felt it should stay as the House of Windsor. The Second World War had only Winston Churchill was the He'd been a friend of her father's. He was her Senior Advisor. - He wasn't even allowed to call his children by his own name. He wanted his children (chuckles) for obvious reasons, and he was told no that couldn't happen. - And I think that did create And it was as difficult time for him. There's no denying it, in I said to him you know &quot;When he said &quot;Everything changed&quot;. I said &quot;but there were people he said &quot;No, there were people For the Queen her role was clear, and by every account, the Queen was remarkably she suddenly found herself as a sovereign, but she stepped into the role, as 'To the Manor Born' which she was. And where was Prince Phillip? What was he to do? But he said &quot;Nobody told me, And he had quite a evolving a role for himself. So, the early years, I - One of the critical things he did, she came to the thrown you very ill at ease in public, and he was incredibly good and a useful foil for her if he saw her in some sort he would saunter up and that would quickly lighten the mood and allow things to sort of progress. - As he said to me &quot;You know, lines shaking hands with people and I've made it my policy to try and get at least one person because you arrive, they're they're feeling awkward, So how do you do it? You say hello and you make a little joke&quot;. - He's always accused of He even coined a word for it. - Dontopedalogy, which was the art of putting his foot into his mouth. - And then Sister, Melanie Wyatt, and our Staff Nurse, Roxanne. - Where do you come from originally? - I come from the Philippines. - Philippines? Philippines must be half empty. [Many Laughing] I mean you're all here. (laughs) - He has come up with some corkers over the years. (chuckles) - [Reporter] On a Royal Tour of Australia, the Duke asked Aborigines if they still threw spears at one another. - And he may have this and you know tough and politically but that's not what he's like at all. He's actually a sensitive person. He's sensitive to other people. And he said to me once &quot;I cant face it, if I'm going on a Foreign Tour, and I see they're going to my heart sinks, because I it's a five day trip, all they're waiting for - As one of the dreaded and has written about and often wrote about his so called gaffs, I do feel a tinge of sort because, clearly they weren't gaffs. They were amusing, they were awry asides that were beaten up in to make a good story, to make a head line. - Well I imagine you weren't so I don't know what you know about it. - People do find the gaffs amusing. I think the majority of people find somebody who's in the public eye, saying what they really think, quite refreshing and (audience laughing) - It gives me great privilege well closed actually. (many laughing) - And I honestly don't think that he supposedly made, that - No. (many laughing) - There are a lot of these that they were ice breakers, by Prince Phillip to try and change the dynamic of a situation. Most people that the Royals meet, and particularly the Queen and Phillip, are incredibly nervous. They're a bundle of nerves, they cant speak, they they get their Ps and Qs all muddled up and Phillip's job, part of his job, has been to put them and the Queen at their ease. And one way he's found And it might be a awry aside, but it has worked over the years. Unfortunately the side effect of all this has been the Press has sort of and blown them up to became extremely anxious about being seen as a and it sort of changed the which was, in many ways a great shame. - People who work with him or who have worked with that it's very much done to break the ice, make people feel at their ease. He's not out there to offend anyone, and if he does so inadvertently, I think he's always very apologetic. - I think, over the years, very badly misrepresented by the Press. He has always spoken his mind. I mean you know, there and there's a bad Prince Phillip. The good one, is the man to make life better for You know, for young people, for wildlife, for But, there's also another Prince who can reduce grown men to tears, who is intolerant and bad I think he's often jousted with the media, he tires of us very quickly. And I'm not just talking it equally applies to I mean he can be famously short fused with interviewers as we know. - I think it's fair to has a bit of a short fuse and is sometimes impatient, and that says a lot about his character, he's just keen to get things done. There was an occasion where he was at the RAF Club, celebrating some sort of He was with the Duke of Cambridge and the Earl and Countess of Wessex and they were all lined up in ready to have a photograph taken, and as the Photographer put the Duke seemed to stay on camera, and heard to say, &quot;Just take the picture&quot;. - Well I think you know, I think he's sensitivity He reacts to things, he gets annoyed. Perhaps the public and just to see if there's a or of anger or rudeness, but I think he is a sensitive man, but at the same time, he has these deep reserves of courage and sort of get on with it resilience, that has seen him through and I mean, he's into his 90's, he's working a full week really. It's quite remarkable really. He's been doing that for, was doing that for well over 60 years. - I donut think there's any are aware of the role, in the last 60 years, which is of great benefit - There have long been rumors that Prince Phillip was and that he had a series of girlfriends. - As with anyone in the spot of dalliances over the years, but it's always been heavily but also the glamorous women involved. And I think it is very easy alongside someone to be - Prince Phillip was bedeviled about him as a ladies' man. Partly I think because he was I mean he really was, you people describe him as, and if you've seen pictures you can see, he was devilishly handsome. - There have been mutterings too blonde, and he's almost That was one of the most One of the Royal Private that he probably won't be faithful. - He was in a straight jacket once he was married to the Queen. Life was I think probably - The first of these stories concerned a lovely lady called Pat Kirkwood, who I go to know, she was a and she was a great review Artist. Famously had the most And I think in all, Prince Phillip met her on perhaps four or five But the first or second occasion, they went to a show, or he went to see her in her dressing room, with and they ended up going and he danced with her, and this was seen. So, immediately 'Oh my Goodness, he's dancing with this beautiful girl,' there had to be something more to it. They did meet at another royal Gala, she was in the line, they shook hands, 'Oh, what's going on here now?' And these stories continued and they infuriated Prince - There always been talk, was Prince Phillip having I mean, I think one doesn't know. I think there are huge over friendships which were - John Major's wife, Norma, when of course if you are and it's a male Prime Minister, you find yourself sitting because the Prime Minister So, she said he is the so amusing, but why that should then be... If you're being as it were charming, people assume you're being flirtatious, and then they assume there's It is very, very annoying. - One thing is sure, he's never wavered in his support for the Queen and there was never any question of the marriage not going all the way. - Phillip himself has professed and years and years. His argument has always been - You know, since 1947 he's throughout his life. If he's been up to something in 70 years, somebody would have produced They haven't, he didn't, end of story. - [Reporter] The early years of marriage, have set the seal on the happiness of the Princess and her Husband. The blessing of children has come not only to enrich their lives, but also the establish securely - [Richard] Prince Charles and Phillip had a difficult relationship, there's no doubt about it. Phillip expected things of Charles. With Princess Anne, of course, and much more affectionate relationship. - People have got the and Prince Phillip were somehow uncaring parents and unloving. From everybody I've spoken to, and that's a lot of people, in the late forties and early fifties, they were modern parents And yes, Princess Anne and Prince Charles went away to boarding school, but that's the way it was done. It was not considered or odd or heartless about The truth is that Prince Phillip thought he was doing the right thing, sending his children, He'd been very happy there, - [Reporter] On arrival, were received by the the kilted Captain Iain Tennant. Next the Headmaster Mr. Robert Chew, with whom was the Warden Mr. Henry Breton. 30 years ago, Prince Phillip the main reason why the Queen and he are sending Prince Charles here. - But I think my efforts to of faith and community, may also have been partly due to the fact that the school I went to was founded by a from Germany, Dr. Kurt Hahn. And I well remember, I well by several Jewish refugees who had fled from Germany I have forgotten neither their - Prince Charles didn't like it, and decided to send his children to Eaton. Princess Anne wishes and sent her children to Gordonstoun. Different children work better or less well in certain schools. They then had a kind of second family. - [Reporter] Queen Elizabeth proudly introduced Prince Andrew. - Two more children came along, Prince Andrew and Prince Edward. And of course the older two children are the more senior ones, Prince Andrew and Prince Edward - I understand my families and I'm sure you understand my families' view of photographers and the fact that we don't all like having our photographs taken. - There's nothing I can But in their parent's eyes, they like, admire and love their There was a lot of, it I know this because I've heard the way the whole thing is portrayed. You know it turns into a soap opera. Prince Phillip is adamant, that's not what we... We are a family and, in a sometimes things go badly. Sometimes marriages go wrong. That's the way the world is. And of course, for them to end up you know with is distressing, as well and disappointing, but that's the way it is. To have a son like Prince Edward, going into the Royal Marines and deciding it wasn't for him. And that, one imagines, must have been a sense of great disappointment as a solider himself, the honorary man in charge it almost embarrassing couldn't cut it. But not a bit of it. I mean he, Edward had nothing and understanding, and I thought about Phillip the father, and he wasn't this that he's often portrayed He's a sensitive man in many respects. - I think Prince Phillip and the Royal Family through some incredibly tough experiences. The fire at Windsor Castle for example. He oversaw a lot of the renovations, he chaired the committee. He's obviously very and so, he looks at how he can help or how things can be changed. - The Duke of Edinburgh always got a book or more on the go. Usually, factual books, non-fiction. History that sort of - He's not an Academic if you like, but he is very interested by He's the only member of the Royal Family with a library at Buckingham Palace. - So practical, so pragmatic, you know? He used to make jewellery for the Queen. Want a Wedding Anniversary present? I'll make it for you. - When the Prince of Wales' came under strain, he he wrote to her. - I've seen the letters and I've seen her replies. The letters are illuminating. They are, they're unflinching, but they're thoughtful, they're intelligent, they're and they're affectionate. And yet Phillip took and act as mediator, between Charles, Diana and the Royal Family. And I think he did a pretty good job, but he certainly put Diana, There's no question she misjudged him, she had a view of her father-in-law, which was changed of the correspondence between them. And they were, I think in defusing a very explosive - Diana certainly felt that were against her, but she did recognize that he had extended a hand of friendship. - Prince Phillip came in as did the Queen after the death of Diana, Princess of Wales. By members of the public who weren't being demonstrative enough and what I've always felt and what they've expressed themselves, is that they very much wanted that was their absolute And, while Harry later said his mother's coffin for them to have done, at the time, the Duke of Edinburgh, suggested he would walk with the boys, &quot;If you will walk, I will walk with you.&quot; - [Gyles] And made that decision to walk with the boys that day, because he would see it as an opportunity to bring people together, which - But, it could be a moment of history, that's decided by a man, who in theory, is not the Head of the Royal Family, but his influence has been amazing. - He cultivated passions, he beyond himself and he What he was interested in, When he got into carriage He wrote the book. He invented the rules. He followed everything through. He was absolutely a details man. (upbeat instrumental music) - In the late forties and early fifties, which was of very current interest, both in America and here, was the interest in UFOs and sort of people from other planets, and Prince Phillip had several equerries, which he would send out to interview people, who And the more interesting ones, or the ones that they felt would be brought back to Buckingham Palace and be interviewed by because it was felt that would act as sort of truth serum and help to flush out whether in fact they were telling cobblers or not. - Lots of people have having God like qualities and looking like a Greek God in his youth. But one of my favorite stories about him is that he is considered in the South Pacific Nation of Vanuatu, which revered him so much with the Queen in 1970s, that he became the focus where some villagers decided of their spirit ancestors, and I believe the Prince Phillip movement may still be in existence and I think he perhaps over the years has contained to stay in correspondence with people on the island. Prince Phillip carried out more than 600 solo trips overseas, and I think while he was never really able to interfere in politics, he if quite diplomatic role over the years. He, when the Queen was unable to travel, would go and visit countries, obviously while there other senior figures, and he no doubt did a lot to foster good relations within Commonwealth. - There is a point at which it, that the world will not support the major species like ourselves, and simply it will collapse and what will happen, I it's a terrible thought will go without food, millions of people will go without water. - You know, he has been a fantastic campaigner for for young people, for I mean, there are many, many that he has got involved - Where he has managed to because he's measured small talk, going down unveiling plaques, that's But he has had the individual satisfaction of various projects, in The Duke of Edinburgh award scheme is of course the most famous. It has touched the lives of millions of people around the world. That is a great legacy. - It's difficult to explain, I mean, people have been but everybody's had to invent it. it's like reinventing the What this has done has it's provided the and the standards you have to reach are set by the governing body So, they know what they're talking about. Whereas before, people tended and they're own conditions. Now they're set by people who know what they're talking about, - But there've been other that people haven't noticed. He's had a Commonwealth every few years, since the 1950's, where thoughtful people have got together and tried to worry through a problem. So, they're all these that are beyond the public domain. - He's been involved with something like 800 organizations over the years. Phillip was not just a figure and organizations that He really, really put in the leg work. I remember when Ascott, the race course, was being re-developed. The developer and the architects, they knew that they had a problem with crowd management in one small area. And they absolutely couldn't But they thought, we'll show... The day had come, we'll And the Queen and the whole party looked at this presentation and at the end of it, Prince &quot;Of course you realize with crowd control&quot;, just in that point. And he had picked up the very thing. It was a tiny point, a tiny piece but he had picked it up. And his attention to detail All the societies and have said exactly the same thing. He's not just a figure on the note paper. - Tolerance is the one central ingredient of any happy marriage. It may not be quite so important but it is absolutely vital and you can take it from me, that the Queen has the quality (audience laughing) - Tolerance was the key to And my goodness, you know, each one has had to be - Yesterday, I listened as Prince Phillip spoke at the Guild Hall and I then proposed our hosts health. Today the roles are reversed. All too often I fear Prince Phillip has had to listen to me speaking. Frequently we have discussed and as you will imagine, his views have been expressed (audience laughing) He is someone who doesn't but he has quiet simply been my strength and stay all these years, and I and his whole family, and this and many other countries, owe him a debt greater or we shall never know. - The influence a person has, If you're talking to and she's listening, she hears what the Prime Minister says, she hears what here Advisors say, but this is man giving his opinion. So he's been an immense - The Duke of Edinburgh has been by nature very self-effacing, but also as a Consort, he has never sort to be in the limelight or to be the main attraction if you like. He very much understands that and he's always there - I mean that's how he and that's what he wrote when he said he would Cherish was the word he used, Lilibet, but mainly that he would support her and that's his job. He wrote the job description himself. - Whether it's you know lifting small children over the barriers, which he was still doing at the age of 94, and the Queen's 90th birthday in Windsor. He has very much ensured that and everything he's done So, when you have him, for example, joking that he's the world's most experienced plaque unveiler, it's a real sort of insight He doesn't want any fuss, he doesn't want any attention. He just wants to get - You've now seen the world's most experienced plague unveiler. (many laughing) - Once to towards, when he somebody on a foreign tour accused him of nodding off during and he said &quot;Yes possibly, while but not while her Majesty And he never failed the Queen, simply, never failed the Queen. - Our number one institution and have lasted quite in the way it has, without that great support - You know, history will as this sort of vital - [Emily] He was this Greek God of a man. - [Jeffery] He is a matinee - [Emily] With an incredible - [Richard] The man who - [Gyles] Because he had enthusiasms in life, beyond himself. - [Emily] All action hero - [Penny] Prince Phillip - [Gyles] He was absolutely a details man. - [Emily] The Queen said that this country and many others owe him - [Phillip] There have been but he, essentially now, sort of fault him the - [Richard] And I think without Phillip, Queen Elizabeth would and we'd have been the poorer for it. - [Penny] I think life would be a very dreary place. (instrumental music)