Non-stick or stainless steel? Copper? Ceramic? Cast iron? Enameled cast iron? Don't forget about hybrid. Yeah, I was, uh, getting to that...and hybrid. So, which one's the best? Well, in this video, I'm going to break down... Which one is the best? Oh, well, what do you mean? The best for what? Like, is there one pan that can do Oh, stainless steel. Nah, I don't believe you. Well, I haven't given you any reason to believe about. I'm going to explain to you my experiences dive into how the construction of stainless steel and bust a few myths about which to prove to you and to everyone watching surface to cook on... except for one specific I know--scrambled eggs. Actually, no. Yeah, they get, like, super stuck on stainless Okay, how about this--after we're done through how to cook eggs (and anything) and show you how to clean up the dirtiest Sounds a little bit like you're Well, I would never make a video Any chance that's the last pun in this video? No, I've wanted to make this video for a from non-stick cookware to longer-lasting and but it took me over a year to buy and test all video complete. And in that time, I linked this video idea, they agreed to provide all the Well, that was nice. It was. And all of the facts, information, and surfaces from any brand, but because I am sometimes there are features that only apply to when this happens, you'll see a little logo particular feature is Hestan-specific. But if I than aluminum," with no logo, then that means that Oh, let me try: "Um, I like stainless and handcrafted in Italy. Stainless steel works lids. The best stainless steel brands sell All right, enough fun with Okay, fine. So, what's so great Well, I'm glad you asked. Come on, I'm listening here, but you Okay, no promises--I'll fry my best. Let's start can be broken down into three basic parts: the top the bottom (or base) that interacts with the two. Most pans are categorized and sold based stainless, ceramic, cast iron, aluminum, carbon what's on the outside is important for a long-lasting, lifelong connection, it's No cap. Yeah, no cap. Pans made of one material, are going to be the most straightforward because the top and the bottom. Making pans out of just but because each material has while they can be great for specific tasks are also going to be on full display without any to acidic foods and can either rust or corrode pure aluminum pans can warp or burn food easily Nerd. Sorry! In simple terms, metals with low will change temperature slowly, which means they slow to heat up and need to be super thick and of the conductivity spectrum, you're looking quickly--so that's going to be aluminum, and for may have heard that copper is the ideal material sauce, you want precise and quick heat control the sauce, scrambling a carbonara, or burning a So, I'm guessing stainless is Actually, no. On its own, stainless steel so stainless isn't really the Well, no. And that's why the best stainless steel pans are or copper cores. By layering materials that are and putting a more conductive and even-heating truly can and do have the best of both worlds. aluminum core, you can increase the conductivity of performance that's typical of a solid copper Exactly. Having stainless steel on the these much more durable and safer to use. Plus, compatible with induction stove tops that you All right, so I'm into this whole clad durability of stainless on the bottom, and then a non-stick coating on Well, let's start off by defining the term around on the internet by every single company just gliding whimsically in slow-motion circles. "non-stick" only applies to cookware where the will release food from the cooking surface Okay, so is this non-stick? Nope. What about this? Not a chance. And this one? Nope. But what if it's really well-seasoned? That is not what seasoning means. But also, it is, how naturally releasing the ceramic is, or how is, you have to use oil with all of those surfaces non-stick. The oil is. The only cooking surface Yeah, no, um, I'm not so sure about that, I know--whenever an acronym like PTFE or there are going to be lots of health claims, it. There are tons of videos on the internet that non-toxic enough for you. This is not that kind of to stick to things that I know 100% to be true, but it also does not stick to the pan that goes both ways. So, give your old roommates blamed them for ruining your non-stick pans Or maybe it was, because while I was doing I found something interesting about this and even though it has a fully non-stick coating which is strange for a pan that has PTFE in its to see how they apply a lifetime warranty to and here's what they said: "Our non-stick by plasma. Since we have layered non-stick, coming off. This is our innovation to non-stick, Now, I do not know enough about plasma, titanium, so I just went ahead and directly asked Does the lifetime warranty still apply if the Here's what Hestan said: &quot;We stand behind the pan at any time if there are issues.&quot; your roommate scratched your titanium plasma because anything that's designed to be non-stick and after a few years, you're going which is bad for the Earth and So, then why do you have a non-stick pan? Well, like I mentioned before, there is one Oh yeah, for scrambled eggs? No, it's not scrambled eggs because, with and if you add a little bit of oil and preheat I'll show you later when I do the floaty egg any surface with a little bit of oil becomes marketing term that doesn't apply to anything So that's why I have one truly non-stick pan this one pan, hopefully, will last me A lifetime, really? 'Cause I feel like I've over time or have split rims from going know when you're buying a pan if it's going Because by the time you buy it and cook long kind of stuck with it. And if it turns out they a manufacturing defect, then, oftentimes, those you're just left arguing with the company about Well, that's actually a good question. Thanks. Unlike a non-stick pan, the surface of stainless thing to go. It's some of the smaller differences warped edges, or rims that corrode and split from break down the small details that I think are most First, the handle. If the handle but rivets will stay in place and hold everything so that's why I prefer pans with flush rivets and collect food. You'll also want to look for handles and/or handles designed with a groove so that, even the ones with holes), you can easily mitt without worrying about a smooth, The second most important detail, and the place is going to be the rim. If your rims are just and the food and oil inside will slowly corrode steel and not &quot;stain-never&quot; steel. If the rims separate layers on the outside of the pan, it and it will be much easier to clean, but I would recommend looking into the fine print of if they still recommend washing by hand to it's probably because of these exposed down at a slower rate than the inner core, with multi-million-dollar class The only clad pans that are truly dishwasher that protects the inner core from the harsh So, is it best to get a No, like, you don't even cook. Well, I could start. If you're only learning to cook, you and a universal lid that works with them both. and those quality items will still cooking journey. At the point that you're I would recommend investing in a stainless sure to get something with solid handles So what is the absolute best? French Laundry, Chef Thomas Keller--like, Well, if you absolutely love cooking and then titanium is four times tougher to 1050deg and recover from the Oh yeah, cleaning up--you still have to show us how to cook eggs in stainless You're right. To make any stainless steel temperature. You want the oil in the pan at around easiest way to do this is with a thermometer if you don't have a thermometer, until it's hot enough that water beads up on the a layer of steam without making contact with the so when you add the oil to a pan that's this same high temperature so that your egg, which the bead of water, with a small layer of steam in the pan. Any small areas of cold proteins that and release themselves naturally after coming like it does in the commercials. When following will release as they're golden brown, and you're remove with liquid to create the base for some of Dude, that's great in theory, but I say, I'm trying to cook a stir fry Just add a little water while the pan is hot, Okay, but hypothetically, what if I was so they got stuck to the bottom of the pot? I left it to dry overnight. And then, while and scrubbed it, the burnt grits Easy, if you've got sealed rims--dishwasher. Okay, but what if the dishwasher doesn't work, or you just don't have a dishwasher? Not a problem. Because there or anything else to worry about, you to scrub anything off stainless steel or And what about that rainbow effect? Stainless steel cleaner, or vinegar, or a lemon. All right, but it was scrambled better to cook in a non-stick pan. No, like I said before, with a little bit you can cook anything in a stainless steel So, then what's better in a non-stick pan? This only applies if you don't Like us. Fair, like us. But because leftovers start out I think a non-stick pan is the best way to where you can preheat the pan or use save the Earth, and use stainless steel.