Dr. Wang 's patient is having a difficult delivery and her husband's calls have not been answered . Otherwise, we should operate on her first. If this continues, neither she nor the child can be saved . She is unconscious now and there are no signatures of immediate family members on the rescue sheet. If there is a problem, are you taking care of it ? Stay here, it hurts and I'm dead. Help me , I'm getting dirty when I take the clothes off . It's useless to beg me. Who told your husband not to come? It hurts so much . Fu Xing, Fu Xing. Where are you? I'll go have a meal first and take a look. Ah, if someone dies, contact the morgue to save my dad Xiao Ran . Where is Fu Xing? My sister and brother- in-law said to save the child in your belly, you can sign the divorce agreement first. It 's impossible . I don't believe that Fu Xing would treat me like this. You are close to Pei Yi during marriage. Now I 'm pregnant with a child again. It's good that Fu Xing is willing to let you live. Hurry up and sign. Don't make Fu Xing angry. It will hurt our Jin family. I didn't sign. It's not good . The child is hypoxic. Sister, if you don't sign, the child will die because of you. I'm pregnant. Save the child . Give it some rescue. The patient is in critical condition now. Should I keep him older or younger? My brother -in-law is now in critical condition . Should I keep him older or younger? Don't bother me anymore with such trivial matters. I 'm dead. Dad , let's go. It's too late. Go to the emergency room. Hello, Director Wang . Brother -in-law, sister said she is sorry for you. She is going to live abroad with Pei. Even the divorce agreement has been signed. Jin Shining , you don't even have an explanation. Now you still want to fly away. You are dreaming. Brother-in -law, CEO , you admit your mistake . The president is over there, brother, you can't see. Come on , cough, An An, hello, President, this is the latest contract, Mr. Fu. Isn't it my scumbag dad's company? I want to discuss this in person. Is this something? President, here are the most delicious lollipops in the world . Brother, your teeth. After everything is broken and you are sore in the middle of the night that you can't sleep, don't come to me to give you acupuncture. Okay, brother, I will listen to you. It's not bad. Mommy, let's go to grandpa's house and have a look. It's been seven years. Some things need to be settled. Jin Shining, what are you doing? Come back, weren't you in the hospital back then? When you got the divorce agreement, you went back happily and didn't care about my life or death. I bribed him to tell you that my child and I were both dead. Okay, Jin Shining, how dare you lie to us ? I 'm afraid I won't be able to survive now, huh . Back then, your incident caused a commotion in the city. Now you still have the nerve to come back. What is the truth of what happened back then ? I know you better than me. I am here today to get back my mother's inheritance . How can your mother's country bumpkin have any inheritance? Jin Zhiguo, who doesn't know that you made a fortune from your wife's dowry? The villa you live in now and your company are none of my mother's. You are so presumptuous that you are not allowed to bully my mother. The little thing is talking. Is it okay? are so uneducated. Sister, don't cry. Don't cry. Liu Hongxia, you have gone too far. Today, I have gone too far. What can you do to me? If Mommy is not angry, I will protect you and my sister, you little fart. What are the children pretending to be like? In one minute, the security guards are in place and the security guards are there. It's really staged. In 30 seconds, the bodyguards beat them out. In 20 seconds, in 10 seconds, they're here. President, the person you want arrives. I'm scared when there are so many people . The bodyguards are all trained. Don't eat or drink fines. You little thing, don't think that if you spend money to find actors, I will be afraid of you. The actors in this row are international Sanda champions. This row is international Taekwondo champions. The last row is He is an international wrestling champion. My future son-in-law is the president of the Fu Group. You hit me and try . Okay , I will meet your request. Oh, it hurts, it hurts . Oh, I was wrong. Don't hit the kid . Fu Xing and Xiao Ran are coming soon. They will definitely not spare you . Then I will wait and see. Dad , Fu Xing and I are back to see you. Dad , Fu Xing and I are back to see you. She and the child in her belly are not dead . Fu Xing, why are you here? If your legs If it wasn't for you, how could my legs be like this ? It's retribution, right? If it wasn't for you, how could my child and I have fallen into such a desperate situation ? It's just that you and that wild man ran away and flew away. You agreed to take all this on your own. You were the one who betrayed me first. I clearly asked Xiaozai to go to you and tell you that as long as you are willing to look back , I don't mind your child. I see you are not idle either. How about my sister-in-law? She feels pretty good, right? You can't let her tell you about those years. thing Mom and Dad, what's wrong? Come on , let go of Xiao Ran. You 're here. This woman wants to kill our good son-in-law. You have to make the decision for us. You still won't let go of my parents. You betrayed Fu Xing. Forget it . Now you're still hurting me. Parents, it's in vain that we have been thinking about you and thinking about me. Go to death, right? Jin Zhiguo, your golden turtle son-in-law is here. You don't want me to tell all the scandals about the Jin family in front of him. Oh, okay, stop talking. Stop talking. Isn't it just that little inheritance? I went to get it. It was clearly you who did the scandal back then , and you don't even have an explanation for it. Fu Xing, we have been in love for 10 years , but you shattered all the past explanations between us because of a ridiculous rumor. What's the explanation? Why did I fall in love with the wrong person so blindly? Jin Shining, you're really toasting me instead of eating, right? Daddy, Mommy, don't quarrel. What did you call me just now ? An'an, don't call him random, he's not your father, bank. The money in the card has been used up a long time ago, only two villas are left. My mother and I are really mother and daughter. We even have the same taste in people. Okay , things are done . Let's go and stop . You and Pei Yi eloped and now you are Come back in a dignified manner. Do you think I have an injury on my leg? There is nothing you can do about it. I don't know if you have an injury on my leg . I just came back to clear my name. Okay, then I want to see how you prove that you are not. I'm worried that a mere leg injury can be cured. You are my sister and a man. Pei Yisheng's child actually said it was a mere leg injury. Do you know how much torture A Xing endured in order to cure his leg injury ? I can really cure you. Shut up. Children are children. Things that can't be put on the table, Jin Xiaoran, remember you are a woman worthy of the name. It's enough. You all bully Mommy. I want to make the Fu Group bankrupt . You are just a young baby. You still want the biggest Fu Group in Beijing to go bankrupt. Joke Computer Brother is like this. Can you make daddy pay the price? I want to see how you embarrass Mr. Fu in front of Ah Xing. The stock market crashed and we lost 100 million. This child not only behaves but even looks very similar to me when I was a child. Am I the only one? I didn't learn from you , Xing . Don't pay attention to this little thing. Go and see what's going on in the stock market . Isn't it normal for the stock market to be turbulent? It's only 100 million . Brother, it doesn't seem to have any impact on the scumbag . Well with Mr. Fu's competition and lose 5 billion. Go and find out who did it . No need to find out. It was me. Jin Xingxing , look at how you have educated your children. They are full of nonsense. Believe it or not, it's mediocre. Mom, I know you want to vent your anger on her, but there's no need for this kind of person . Let's go , daddy, do you really not want me and mommy? Do you have some backbone ? All the water in his head now is the tears he sheds chasing his wife in the future . Is An An okay? How come this child has the same birthmark as me ? Is it okay? Is it just plain? An An is my child. Mom, don't worry. An An is fine. Just fine . Let's go home. Dad. In fact, Ah Xing and I wanted to talk about the engagement today. Okay. Let's talk about it later. Jin Shining came back suddenly this time. I don't know if he has any other purpose . There are still many doubts that need to be verified. Mr. Fu has now found out that the miracle doctor is in a traditional Chinese medicine clinic. Only the miracle doctor can cure your legs . Look at when we will pass. Now Ah Xing is golden. Before, you were lucky. This time, I will never let it go easily. Come on, go play, Dr. Jin, here you go , director. A big shot is coming to see you later . It's going to be hard for you. Don't worry, I will do my best to treat you. I will find a way to take Ping Anan for a paternity test. Mr. Fu, are you suspicious of those two? The child is yours. Stop talking nonsense. Remember to keep this matter secret. This is why are you here? Why can't I be here? Mr. Fu, here you are. This is the junior sister of the miracle doctor. Do you know each other? It's just a coincidence. There is a tacit understanding between you, Madam, Master, tonight. What would you like to eat? Sweet and sour pork ribs. Madam and the young master really have a tacit understanding . It's really an enviable coincidence. It's just a coincidence. I don't have to have dinner today. I 'm full of sweets. You must have heard of Mr. Fu 's reputation as a miracle doctor, right? This is the junior sister of the miracle doctor. Of course her medical skills are not bad either. Why don't she give you a look ? There's Dr. Lao Jin. Can you tell me in detail what's going on with Mr. Fu's leg ? You don't know what's going on, right? Mr. Fu, if you don't explain your condition well, please hire someone else. Her temper has not changed at all after all these years. I'm really scared of her. It was raining at night 7 years ago. The car was driving too fast and I didn't see clearly, so I hit the doctor and said her leg. My nerves were damaged and I cannot move. The night I had a difficult delivery seven years ago was also a rainy day. Could it be that it was that day ? He obviously talked to Jin Xiao again on the phone. Did he feel pain? He didn't have three injections and there was no reaction. It seems that his leg disease is very serious. Do you feel it now? No , it feels a bit like not seeing you for so many years. Your medical skills have become superb. She is still the same as before. She can do her best in whatever she wants. He is such a proud person and it must have been very difficult for someone with such a leg injury in these years. Back then, your A Xing , she just wanted to kill you. A Xing, she just wanted to kill you. Jin Xiaoran can eat and talk nonsense. I don't talk nonsense. You are my fiance. Of course I hope you get better, but my sister is different. She came back from abroad this time to take revenge on us, right? To take revenge on Jin Xiaoran, so you admit that you have done something disgusting? Jin Shining , I know you hate me for being with A Xing, so you want to take revenge on him, but you Have you ever thought that I atone for your sins and take care of him all these years , so we have a friendship? If anything happens, just come to me. Xiao Ran Jin Shining is not going to harm me , and only temporarily to save the Jin Group. That's enough of your nonsense. I don't want to deal with Fu Xing. If you want to be cured, just treat him. If you don't want to be cured, leave. Miss Jin, Dr. Jin just treated Mr. Fu. Mr. Fu finally regained consciousness in his legs. Ah Xing , I am the top medical university in Southwest China. Even I can't do anything about your legs after graduation . How can a person without a medical qualification certificate treat her well? Acupuncture is something left by our ancestors. If you don't understand, don't talk nonsense . There is a miracle doctor in the acupuncture world who is very mysterious . Let her treat her, but the whereabouts of the miracle doctor is mysterious and no one has seen her in person. Even if we can't find a miracle doctor , we can't let these quacks treat it. Miss Jin, although miracle doctors are hard to find , the sister of the miracle doctor is also good at treating bone injuries. I'm afraid those so-called foreign experts can only hold a candle to you. You don't have to say it anymore. No one can find it. What's the use of saying so much? Ah Xing, let's go. The junior sister of the miracle doctor is here. The miracle doctor can't come due to physical reasons. Let Dr. Jin come. For you, the junior sister who said that Jin Shining is the miracle doctor is absolutely true. Curator, you'd better call the miracle doctor to confirm to avoid being deceived by some people. Turn off the phone. It's okay. I'll call the curator. Turn off the phone when you call. Turn it on when you call. What are you pretending to do? I have a better relationship with the miracle doctor. I have her other number. Where are you, baby? Come to the medical center. Jin Shining . The academic Daji rumored recently in the medical field should be you, right? Hey, this profession of doctor doesn't require you to use these dirty things. Okay, I'm going to see how you are exposed today. This miracle doctor, mommy actually said that she is a miracle doctor. How brave. I really am a miracle doctor. Mommy's medical skills are also what I taught you. I can definitely cure daddy's legs. Okay , Director Wang, is this little girl really a miracle doctor? Mr. Fu, to tell you the truth, I have never seen the true appearance of a miracle doctor, but the Chinese medical skills are profound and profound. It is incredible that she learned medical skills at a young age and became a miracle doctor . Hey, let me tell you, they are. Don't jump to conclusions until the liar's matter is investigated clearly . However, I can contact Liu Yong, the disciple of the miracle doctor. Master Liu Yong. I am someone here pretending to be a miracle doctor . Why, someone dares to pretend to be my master. My master is still in seclusion. The lies are revealed, right ? It's not your mother who told you to say this. If Ah Xing's leg is injured because of this, I won't be able to spare you and I will kill you. My little friend , are you sure you didn't lie ? I 've only been gone for a few days and you forgot about me. Master, aren't you in seclusion ? I still have something to do. Even if the master is not here, you must practice your medical skills. Don't be lazy . Yes, master. Don't worry, Daddy . Look, I'm not lying. Mummy said you must be honest. Children can't lie. It seems that what happened back then We need to further verify that it was just a phone call. What if you colluded to deceive us? Jin Xiaoran, now that the truth has been revealed, quickly apologize to An An, Director Ping Ping An , what kind of drink are you talking about? My special peanut drink, Ping Ping An's peanut. Allergies are bad . Mr. Fu is also allergic to peanuts. Are they really my children ? My Mr. Fu . Are you awake ? Mr. Fu blames me for being too careless. Next time, next time , Mr. Fu, Shut up . If you talk too much, I will sell it to Africa. Help me to Ping Ping An's ward. Ping Ping'an 's mother didn't take good care of you. Do n't worry. Ping Ping'an will wake up. Over the years, it's not so much that I've been taking care of them as it's that they've supported me , but I've always been careless and hurt them . This mother is so unqualified. You have done enough. If it weren't for Fu Xing, you wouldn't have suffered so much. Pei Ping'an has been abroad for many years because he has no father. Thank you for supporting us. Thank you. Fool, you know what I mean, you don't need to be so polite. I am willing to do it for you. I just want to see you grow up safely and healthily. I am already grateful for everything I have now, including me. Of course, including you , you are my best, no matter what happens. I will be with you in everything. We are such a loving couple. Why are you here? How could I see such a loving scene between you if I didn't come ? I thought I misunderstood you back then, and I even thought that Ping Anan was really my child. I am now It's ridiculous to think about me. Ping Ping'an doesn't have a father like you. If you had come in time and signed the first aid bill , maybe we could have said that. You admit it, right ? Bo Xing, are you still a man? Do you know that Ping Ping'an is Ping Ping'an? What happened to Ping Ping'an? What Ping An An is has nothing to do with you. A cold and selfish person like you will never have such a cute child in this life. No wonder you had to give birth to the child at all costs. Is this planned by you and Pei Yi? Jin Twinkle, you really make me feel sick . I love Pei Yi so much. We have a deep relationship, so Mr. Fu, don't be an eyesore here. I was so blind back then. When we left in front of me, why didn't you tell him that Ping Anan was him? I can't forgive him for what he did to me and my child. He is such a cold-blooded person. How can I let him be the father of my child ? Then are you willing to be wronged by him for the rest of your life? What is the truth of what happened back then? I will re-investigate. Twinkle, I know you just said you love me and it's not true, but I want to tell you that I am willing to wait until the day your wound heals. Mommy, where are we ? You are allergic to peanuts and were sent to the hospital. How are you now? Mommy, everything is okay. Mom. My sister and I are fine, just fine. I scared my mother to death . The death of Jin Shining's mother and the death of my grandfather, Mr. Fu, you guessed it right. It is indeed related to the Jin family , but it's not clear who it is, so I know, old lady Fu. The old lady said that if you don't get engaged to Jin Xiaoran again, she will hang herself in front of Fu's house. My engagement to Jin Xiaoran can make the Jin family relax their vigilance . Maybe we can find some useful clues. Tell the old lady and say I agree. Mr. Fu's paternity test results came out. Jin Shining, you really betrayed me. I want you to change a paternity test report. The hospital has regulations and reports cannot be changed at will. You have to be responsible. This is 100,000. You can rest assured that no third person will know about it. Fu Xing, I will never let you know that Ping An An is your child. A Xing , I heard that you are allergic. Is it okay? Is this a serious problem ? Is this work information? Assistant Mo really knows that you are sick and yet he still asks you to handle the work. I will send it to you. Go back and have a good rest. I'm sorry to bother you. I'm here to push you. Slow down, An An . It hurts me so much. You want to murder me. Is An An okay? Mommy, An An But something is wrong with this aunt. Her blood vessels are about to rupture. She won't survive more than three days, you little cutie. Ah Xing doesn't know who taught this child . She hurt me even if I didn't tell her. She even cursed me to death. The smell of your tea is really overwhelming. My daughter kindly reminds you that it's your blessing . Believe it or not, I hope you won't stop by then. Come over crying and beg her , A Xing, I am your fiancee. If they bully me like this , they are looking down on your innocent talk . Why should you take it seriously? The more angry you are, the more your life will be in danger . Let's not care about her. Let's go home. If you don't leave for three days, you will definitely come and beg me. &quot;That 's enough.&quot; I'm tired and go back to rest. An An has worked hard today. What do you want to eat? Mommy, An An, wants to eat pasta. Mom, I 'll cook it for you . Wait, come in. Tell me, let me give you the evidence you want. The photos we took in the hotel were synthesized. Yes, the photos were true. No traces of synthesis were found. How is this possible? Jin Xiaoran used more advanced means. She found someone to disguise herself. There is something in this. She really tried her best to frame me with the clues of the two people. There are more scandals done by the Jin family . Remember to tell Fu Xing that it will be easier for you to investigate if he doesn't help the Jin family. I'm afraid that he will know the truth. You fool who wants to snatch Ping An An from me. They are not ordinary children and cannot be snatched away so easily . Okay, Fu Xing, let's meet. I have something important to show you. Okay , I understand. Let's meet at the same place, Mo. What's wrong with the assistant who prepares the car ? Jin Xingxin wants to see me for something. Let's see what tricks she wants . It's better not to go. It's my first time to cook for you with my own hands. Come on, try what you just did. My hands were burned. You can eat it yourself. No need to wait for me, Jin Shining. I have paid so much for Fu Xing. No matter what you do, I will never let you come to me today. If there is anything important, please open it and take a look. What are you trying to explain to me? No one wants to be wronged. Baby, it's really hard to be a Neptune . There are a lot of things to do as Neptune . I'm shining every day. This is what you call evidence. How is this possible ? Madam , I'm sorry. I'll pick it up for you . It's okay. You go and do your work. I know it must have been the waiter who just knocked me down. The bag was then changed to my USB flash drive. The waiter has nothing to do with you. Why did he want to change your USB flash drive ? This USB flash drive was given to me by Pei Yi. He couldn't have lied to me. It's Pei again. You just believe him, right ? I used to believe you, Fu Xing, the most important person in my life, my lover, and my husband, but you are helping outsiders deal with me. You are questioning me . What is my identity? How can I blame Mr. Fu ? I am the one who disturbed me today. How to find out what happened seven years ago ? Uncle Pei, your craftsmanship is really good . The little mouth is so sweet . Eat it quickly. It will cool down. By the way, Pingping. You don't like peanut oil. Uncle changed it to walnut oil for you. Don't be picky. Thank you . Uncle Pei Yi is really nice. Maybe I can try to accept him. How was your chat with Fu Xing after he flashed back ? Don't mention him . Don't you have something to do today? Come on. Thank you for your hard work. Today will be okay. Yes, I have something to do. Just call me and thank you. Walk, I suddenly can't move my legs. Go and contact the doctor. Sit, sit, sit. Uncle Pei is nice to mommy. No matter how nice he is to mommy, he is not our daddy. Daddy is blind. I think he is the second male. It's good to be in the upper position. Huh, no, mommy can only be nice to daddy. Mommy An'an, when will you reconcile with Shendi? Ex-Madam, please come and see Mr. Fu. His legs are stiff. But the two children are at home alone. Mommy, please go and save Daddy. My brother and I will be good. I'll leave first . Mr. Fu, please hold on a little longer. Ex-Madam, Ex-Madam will be here soon. I want you to call the doctor. Why don't you call Jin Shining over here ? I am. I think the medical skills of the ex-Madam are better than those of those doctors. Besides, can't you two communicate more? Ex-Madam, show Mr. Fu a quick look and help him up first. Hey, Jin Shining Shining, you pressed on my leg. I'm sorry . It's not intentional. Why don't you help me ? I'm not trying to get you two close. Forget it. I 'll show you my legs first. Jin Shining , do you know that I hate you every day and miss you every day? You know me. That's why our relationship is just a doctor-patient relationship. After your leg is cured, we will never see each other again. Your leg is fine. I'll help you up. Brother, please take me to find my mother, okay? Sister, be a good mommy. Come back in a minute and you can take me with you. Oh, there is really nothing I can do for you. Sit down first and I will take you to Assistant Meng. Wow , Daddy and Mommy have reconciled. It's not appropriate for children. Aren't you also a child? You still say I'm fine. Sister, now you It's time to relax. Don't worry . Let 's go. Brother, let's not disturb mommy and daddy. Why are you two still haunting us? What are you doing here ? Of course you're here to find my daddy. I'm telling you, Chuan Xing is not. Your daddy, if you dare to identify yourself again, I will throw you to feed the dogs. How can you scare my sister? Since you stole someone else's husband , I have to keep an eye on you. What do you mean? Daddy and mommy have already reconciled. You have no chance. What's impossible ? Don't be angry. I have a small cardiovascular rupture. Why do I still feel like my heart is racing? It must be too hot. It was just an accident. Thank you very much today. I didn't expect that your medical skills are so superb. There are so many things you don't know. Jin Shining, why are you so unwilling? Face, how dare you approach Ah Xing, Jin Shining, how dare you approach him, why are you so shameless, Jin Xiaoran, don't go crazy here, just forget about approaching him, you actually hit me , you talked nonsense before you knew the truth, you deserve to be beaten , you robbed others. My husband can't stand it Don't be an eyesore here. Mummy and Daddy have made peace. Little cutie , shut up. It's enough. You go back first. Ah Xing, I am your fiancee. Let me go back . Jin Shining Shining , she is just here to heal my leg. Don't think too much . No one can do it. She can't do it . How did she hurt you before? I'll say it one last time. We are innocent . Let's go home. Mommy, we can't leave . This aunt's condition is very serious. You saw her. She is still cursing me. She just wants me to die peacefully. I kindly remind you, but you open your mouth to slander her. If people like you don't get retribution, who will get retribution? It should be you and me who get retribution for your moral corruption . How come we behave upright and sit upright and get retribution? Maybe it's my doctor. What's wrong with me? Madam , your blood vessels have been ruptured in large areas and there's nothing we can do. It's impossible. It's impossible . You must be lying to me. I read the life-threatening Xiao Ran report and it was indeed true. I didn't expect that what the little girl named An An said was actually true. Ah Xing, it's impossible . What should I do ? Please help me quickly. This disease 14777 won't help. Madam, you don't want it either. If you're too sad, just enjoy your last moments. It's impossible, I won't die. Fu Xing, please save me. Fu Xing . Miss Jin, there 's a lady now who says she can cure her , and she's right outside the door. That child, An An, said she can cure it at a glance. She can definitely cure my disease after she sees it. Why are you still standing there? Go quickly, An An . I believe in you. I believe you can cure my disease. I beg you to save me, okay? You just scolded my sister and you still want her to give her a cure. You were too late to heal Jin Shining. I am so old and I am also their aunt. You can't treat me like this. We don't have an aunt like you . It's all a misunderstanding. Fu Xing, my sister won't do anything to save you, right? Fu Xing, your sister has always been kind-hearted . Whether she wants to save you or not depends on what she and An An want. Sister, I really know I was wrong. I beg you to let An An save me, okay? Then you can tell me where you went wrong. Mommy, she really doesn't have much time. If you don't treat me, there's nothing I can do about it. Jin Xiaoran is An An and kind this time. We can't ignore death. But you know what you did. You know those things in your heart. I'll remember them. Tell me clearly what happened back then. Anyway , you don't believe me, so let me get out of my way. I'll give you the acupuncture. Mr. Fu, you said this little girl can really cure Miss Jin. Shhhhhhhhhhh , mommy. She's fine. She just needs follow-up treatment. Assistant An Anmo, call the doctor ." I just ran out of energy and fainted. I'll take her back to rest. Are you sure she's really okay? She's just a child after all. I have a top-notch medical team here. If you don't mind, it 's okay. Mr. Fu is afraid that he has forgotten that I am. Doctors don't need to rely on others when saving lives. Jin Xingxin, I'm just kind-hearted. You don't need to be so aggressive. It's too late. If Mr. Fu really wants to thank me for saving your little wife, you might as well give me some real money. An An, I am not the Virgin. The price of saving a life is not low. Assistant Mo sent 3 million to her account. Jin Shining Shining seemed to have misunderstood me. What exactly happened back then ? Fu Xing, am I okay now? Yes, you have escaped from life. Danger: This time, you must thank Mr. An An. It seems that Miss Jin didn't take her cell phone. I sent it to her personally. Fu Xing , what are you feeding me? Pei Yi found the evidence. I tell you to get this evidence for me at all costs . If God wants me to live without Jin Shining , then I will live a good life and then take away everything that belongs to you. Why are you here ? Oh, you forgot your phone. Dad, thank you for your hard work . Come in and eat some fruit. So many years have passed. Do you still remember? Don't get me wrong about the fruits I like to eat. There are only oranges at home . Mummy, have you forgotten that there are a lot of fruits in the refrigerator ? Ye An'an , Mummy, you really killed me. Fu Xing must have thought that I still like his sister. How about we go back to the bedroom and read a book, Mr. Fu? I'm going to see if any of the children need help. I think there must be some misunderstanding between us . Mr. Fu, you are going to get married soon. Isn't it appropriate to say these things to your ex-wife now ? In fact, I don't really want to marry Jin Xiaoran . Just to find out what happened between us and your mother's death. Why are you telling me these things? In fact, I'm sorry. Fu Xing, if you don't come back , I will die for you. Okay, I understand. Then I will come to see you often. Hello, A Xing. Your father died early and I am getting older. My only wish now is to see you get married and have children. If you don't agree , I will go to hell now. Auntie , please don't talk to me like this. With A Xing, I still hope that you will live a long life and have grandchildren. What happened back then is related to Jin Xiaoran. After the engagement, she put down her guard. There may be a breakthrough in the matter . Okay, I agree to get engaged with her. A Xing, I am the one who holds the engagement party for you and Xiao Zai. Invited all the top celebrities to take Xiao Ran to buy some nice clothes. She looked beautiful in her clothes. Our Fu family's faces also looked bright. Thank you, Aunt Xiao Ran . Please have a good chat with A Xing. I'm tired and I'm going to rest. Well, the day after tomorrow is the engagement party. Go buy some clothes by yourself . Ah Xing, why don't you accompany me? I have some things at hand that I haven't finished yet. Go by yourself . Well, you have to pay attention to your health. How are you doing ? Mr. Fu, so there's nothing to do yet. Hurry up and hurry up. Mom, take us. What are you doing here? Sister, you forgot that the day after tomorrow is our birthday. Mommy brought us here. She must be buying us gifts. Pingping said that. What does An An want? Mom will buy you a beautiful little skirt. An An wants a beautiful skirt . There happens to be one nearby. Let's go to a clothing customization company to see which one the gold rush lady likes. Hey, the threshold of your store is really low. Even cats and dogs can come in . People like you who burn bridges can come . Why can't I come? You said anyone who burns bridges has nothing to do with garlic. Can you pretend that if my sister had n't helped you, you would have run out of anger? You are ugly to begin with. Being angry is no different from the devil. I don't know how blind my scumbag dad is. He actually likes your brother. You are not allowed to talk about daddy and mom like that. I've obviously made up with your so-called daddy, and I'm going to have an engagement ceremony with me the day after tomorrow. Fu Xing is going to get engaged to Jin Xiaoran, but he chose the day after tomorrow when I gave birth to a safe and sound baby, Jin Shining. What on earth are you expecting? It's impossible. It is impossible for my dad to get engaged to you. If you don't believe it, you will come and watch my engagement ceremony the day after tomorrow. I see, you are afraid that you won't dare to come . There is nothing that you are afraid of. We will definitely come . I'm afraid that you won't dare to come. Who are my family members? I understand. I was dragged by two children to my ex-husband's engagement party. Those who didn't know it thought I had some serious illness. Mommy, don't look like this . Today is your slap in the face . I think it's a shameful scene. Mommy, you have to hold your head high. Go and take daddy back. Do n't talk nonsense and let others hear. Jin Shining , why are you here, daddy? Why are you all here? Help mommy take daddy back. It's Jin Xiaoran who insists on letting us come to your engagement party. An An, because I am coming to rob you, I told her not to talk nonsense so as not to be misunderstood by others. Oh , it turns out that Shining is so angry. Daddy, you look very disappointed. Do you really expect Mommy to rob you? Pingping, don't talk nonsense, Mr. Fu . Yan Wuji, don't take it seriously. I won't mind. My sister, you are here to wish A Xing and I. I wish you a happy marriage and a baby soon. Then I can lend you your good wishes. A Xing has guests over there waiting for us to come over. Come on , Jin Shining, you are here, don't even think about leaving easily. Jin Shining , you are also here. I'm warning you that today is your sister's engagement ceremony. It's best if you don't mess around . Girl, if you want to mess up Xiao Ran's good things, I won't let you eat. Looks like the last time I broke my arm wasn't enough. Jin Shining eloped with a wild man and now they're having a big engagement party again. I regret it. I definitely regret it. Two girls from the Jin family are trying to steal a boy. Is there going to be a good show next? Watch Jin Shining Shining. Why don't you tell me what good things you have done? My mother's body is still cold. You married this bad woman into the house. Damn girl, how can you talk? Your dad, are you okay? I'm okay. It 's really treasonous. You hooked up with the vixen. How can you have the face to teach my sister that you did this because I didn't want to be with Ah Xing ? Jin Xiaoran, that's it. I don't think you can even pretend to be a garbage bag. Xiaoran, don't be afraid. Let me see who dares to bully you . Get out of this shameless woman , Mom, don't do this . She didn't hesitate to divorce you seven years ago , but she also had two bastards with a man . Her own mother was so angry that she was so angry. You still speak for her. The divorce seven years ago, isn't it? I also mentioned the cause of my mother's death. I will find out on my own that the divorce was not brought up by you. It was obviously you who gave the divorce agreement to Jin Xiaoran . A Xing My sister must have remembered it wrong. What happened seven years ago caused a sensation in the entire Yuncheng. Who doesn't know ? You must be quibbling that the Jin family is really a scum for having a daughter like you . Yeah, why don't people like you die? No! Bully my mommy, you little cutie , I think you should die together, An An. You dare to bully my sister, mommy. I want you to look good , An An, don't be afraid that your mother will make the decision for you. Okay , I'll let you see the truth. The waiter obviously asked the waiter to change U. Why is Panjin Shining Shining still having Jin Xiaoran asking you to attend this engagement ceremony ? You must have bad intentions. I know it well. Fortunately, I made a backup of the USB flash drive last time . Take this. Fortunately, Pei Yi made a backup of Jin Xiaoran. Ran, I will show everyone your true face today. The child is suffering from hypoxia. Let me see. You should sign it. Don't let the child die in your own hands. No, this video is a composite . Jin Xiaoran, everyone can tell the difference between the real and the real. Suppose you deliberately planned to separate Fu Xing and me so that you could marry into the Fu family. This method is really despicable and disgusting . I didn't expect that it was actually Jin Xiaozai who did it . You know people and faces but don't know their hearts. It seems that Jin Shining Shining was really wronged. However, this can only prove that she was forced to divorce , but it does not prove that she has not deviated from the law. It turns out that this is the video she wanted to show me that day . It seems that I misunderstood her. Is there something fishy about what happened with Pei Yi back then? Ah Xing, don't you want it? Believe her , she has wronged me, Jin Shining , you old woman, you have already divorced him, and you still come to him again and again. It is so shameless. Who said my mommy, no one wants the Yuncheng Li family to give me a house, a Bentley, and a Yuncheng Pei family. Give away a set of limited edition jewelry. The Huo family in Yuncheng will give away a black card. The Qin family in Yuncheng will give away 100 million yuan in cash . Oh my God , the four major families in Yuncheng have gathered together. This is so rare. I have to say that the connections of the Fu family are powerful. This gold I 'm afraid our family is about to become prosperous . Xiaoran, can you really give us the honor of the Jin family? Who dares to look down on our Jin family ? After the engagement banquet, the Jin family is completely famous in Yuncheng . Our good days are coming soon. Ah Xing, please give it. My appearance is too big, right? It's rare to see the four major families show up at the same time. Today they all came to give me gifts. You are really thoughtful . I don't know these people. Who are these gifts for ? Is it for Mr. Fu? Of course it's for your mother , but I don't know the people from the four major families. May I ask who these gifts are for? Could it be that Miss Jin, whom we were ordered to give to Miss Jin, was really given to me? What they said was Miss Jin ? I didn't tell you why you are so excited. Couldn't you say that the Miss Jin they are talking about is your mother? How could an old woman with a child be given a gift? There is only one young lady in our Jin family, Jin Xiaozai. Seven years ago , you I 've already been kicked out of the house. Brother, what should I do if mommy is bullied? Sister, don't worry . Let the bullets fly for a while. Brother, there is something you can do. It's disgusting to have scum like you in the Jin family. Sister, how can you say such a thing ? Today is our engagement party. You can't let your sister make such nonsense. Daddy , my mommy is not fooling around. The Miss Jin he calls is my mommy, not that bad woman. What nonsense are you talking about? These four major families are obviously here just for me. They are narcissistic about me. It seems that Jin Shining is narcissistic, you kid, if you don't get out of my way, I will be rude to you. Jin Xiaoran, how dare you touch my child? Try it . Sister, you really protect these two children. Why are you talking to your child? My father had a quarrel. It's great to come to this engagement party and talk nonsense with men. If they really come for you, I will get out of here. How confident you are now, how embarrassed you will be in a moment. Is it possible for Xiao Ran to give Miss Jin a betrothal gift ? The four major families are here to hire you. Isn't this embarrassing to the Fu family? What you said is wrong. Our family Xiao Ran is naturally beautiful. It's normal and just right for the four major young masters to like her. It also lets the Fu family know about our Xiao Ran. Ran is so popular . Mr. Li, I didn't expect you to be so generous. The flowers you picked. I like Mr. Li very much . Please stop making trouble. Everyone is watching. How bad. Who is making trouble with you? Please stop acting. I know you like me. These betrothal gifts are all You gave it to me, but I'm already with Ah Xing and I can't promise you anymore. You really like to put gold on your face , Miss Jin . I've been admiring you for a long time . Please give me a chance. My Mr. Li actually likes Jin Shining Shining who is on his second marriage. I didn't expect Jin Shining to be so popular right now. Who said just now that you have to kneel down and crawl out ? Are you dreaming? Why are you looking at this kind of Hedong Lion Roar ? Fortunately, my mommy divorced you. Brother, don't say that, daddy , you will always be my daddy. I will help you bring mommy back. Mr. Li, thank you for your love, but I I can't accept that Miss Jin and Fu Xing are already in your past. Please give me a chance. Miss Jin has divorced you. It would be even more ungraceful for you to meddle in your own business . Mr. Li, if you have anything to say, please speak to Miss Jin . Mr. Fu invites you. You came to attend his engagement party with a woman. How can you save him any face? I'm not saying that since you and Mr. Fu are so in love , you should be locked together. Why are you coming out to hinder us? Miss Jin, if you are willing to marry me Then all the property of our Li family can be placed in your name. The little property of the Li family is not worth mentioning at all. It is not even one-tenth of my Fu family . What about my Qin family? Qin Shao, the young master of the Qin family is very mysterious . On an occasion like today, the Qin family and the Fu family are evenly matched in terms of strength, but they are still in a competitive relationship. Now there is a good show. Miss Jin, give me a chance to take care of you, okay? Oh my God, Jin Shining is so happy. If it were me, I would definitely marry him. Mr. Qin , why do you get up quickly ? Qin Muzhi, you are against me on weekdays, forget it, and you are proposing to my ex-wife in front of me. Mommy , I think these ginseng grounds are good . Just think about it. This is something I have worked hard to achieve. I brought them together because Zha Shen was blind, so I sent a message to these people to ask them to find my mommy. I am the president of Ping An Group. Who wants to marry my mommy? I can promise him 30% of the shares. This kid actually Is it possible to say that he is the president of Ping An Group ? I heard that the president of Ping An Group is mysterious and unpredictable. He has never appeared in the public eye. No matter how you put it , he can't be a child. Ping Ping is indeed the president of Ping An Group, Mr. Fu. Haven't you been following him all the time? I'm trying to invest in Ping An Group's shares. I'm afraid you haven't even thought of it yourself. What you are trying to win now is the person you abandoned at the beginning. This is true and unbelievable. If Mr. Qin wants to propose , you have to ask the person involved. Are you willing to have Mr. Fu as an ex-husband ? He really has a lot to do. Mr. Qin said that it is better to let your sister make the decision about the marriage . Let's continue our engagement party. Then I wish Mr. Fu a happy engagement and a son soon. Thank you, Mr. Qin . I will definitely be happy. Cancel the engagement party and talk about it for another day. What do you mean? Mr. Qin, don't you know whether men and women can kiss each other? Fu Xing is jealous. Mr. Fu is really overbearing. I think Miss Jin should make her own choice in this matter. You choose him. It's better to choose me, Mr. Qin. I'm afraid that we will still be good friends in the future. If you have shoulder pain in the future, you can still call me. I respect your choice. As long as you stay unmarried for one day, I will chase you for one day, lest some ignorant people think that you have no one to chase you. Twinkle, I knew you would choose me in the end. Mr. Fu misunderstood me and I won't choose anyone. Let 's go. Mommy, don't be angry. Daddy, An'an . I'll tell you again. If you accept him as your daddy, just go with him, sister. Daddy, you're going to get what you want. Let's go. This bitch, Jin Shining Shining, caused me to cancel our engagement and become the laughing stock of the whole city. I want to be with her forever. Mom , don't stop me. I want to find her. You're going to find Jin Shining Shining now. It will be even more embarrassing. She knows so many important people and has value. Why not build a good relationship first ? What your mother said is right. Don't be arrogant . You have worked hard with the child . Why don't you move back home? I can also help take care of the child . It 's us. After all, they are the children's grandparents. You can move back here. As long as mother and daughter go out, how can your mother and sister move out? After you move back, our family will be reunited, right ? If you want to reunite with my mother, I will I can consider sending you down. What are you talking about? I kindly asked you to move back, but you did this to me and you. It won't be interesting if you continue to act out your petty calculations , right? Jin Shining, don't be too proud. Let's wait and see, Mr. Fu . Are you waiting for the ex-wife to tell you that you have some winks and remember to call her Mrs. Jin Shining ? Daddy . Are you waiting for mommy? Shining, come here, Jin Xiaoran, I, and Fu don't have to tell me this. I am just your ex-wife and have no right to interfere. I don't know how to be an assistant to you when you 're so indifferent when it comes to things. I know there are a lot of misunderstandings between us. Let's face it together, okay? I 'll give you a certain amount of time. I want to ask you a question : Ping Ping An , is Ping Ping An my child? Jin Shining , you are really evil, what are you doing again? A Xing, you can't leave her. She's so close. The ancestors of the Fu family are all looking at her. What does she mean? It doesn't mean anything. Jin Xiaoran , tell me what happened. Come on, tell me. Seven years ago, Grandpa Fu knew that you and Pei Yi went abroad . It 's you who killed him. I didn't elope. That was a rumor. If he had been there, he might not have died. I never mentioned it to Jin Xiao again. How could she know who pushed me? So seven years ago, I indirectly caused Grandpa Fu's death. Death is still waiting for me. I'm leaving first, Twinkle Twinkle. Don't listen to her nonsense. Maybe it's all fate. I actually indirectly killed Fu Xing's grandfather. No matter what happened in the past, there is no possibility for me and him anymore, Mommy . What's going on ? Is your scumbag dad bullying you again ? I will never let him go. No one bullies Mommy. I can only say it's fate. Come home, baby . Mr. Fu, go back to the company. Ah Xing . When will our engagement party be rescheduled? Let's discuss again. But hello, Auntie, I'm Brother Xiaoran. Mommy must be sad this time. What should I do? It's my turn for the young master to take action . Mommy , scumbag, has fainted. I give you five minutes to get there. Okay , Assistant Mo , we're almost there. Go slow, brother, why do you have to time daddy? How dangerous is this? Sister, scumbag, daddy can't even do this little thing . How will he protect mommy in the future? The time is safe, daddy , how is mommy, mommy, she just fainted. Come on , don't blame me for not giving you a chance. I hope daddy and mommy can reconcile. I told you that it was acting. The president scolded me all the way. Flash forward 800 times and I came. It's strange. An An said she had a high fever, but her forehead didn't get hot. You Why did you come in? You said you had a high fever and fainted. I was worried about you, so I came here. This kid is talking nonsense again. I was just asleep. It's strange why the door can't be opened. Mommy, brother, has locked the door. You and Daddy, please stay alone. An'an , help mommy open the door. Mommy , this is the time specially given to you. Cherish Pingping. How about we just listen to the children? Between us, Mr. Fu, I won't let you come here in vain. I'll treat your leg, right? I really have no idea about me, Mr. Fu, I didn't mean it. His heartbeat is so fast. Do n't move. There are too many misunderstandings between us. Can you give me time ? I will explain it to you one by one. I, A Xing, even if you don't marry Jin Xiaoran. You can't marry Jin Shining. She is the murderer who killed your grandfather. I believe it was not done by Shining. I will investigate clearly. I think you are obsessed with ghosts. If you dare to have anything to do with her again , I will kill you to see Grandpa Shining . I will investigate the matter and clear your name. I did not answer Grandpa Fu's call. This is an indisputable fact. Shining, are you still willing? I don't want to, Mr. Fu. We are divorced. Daddy and Mommy must have reconciled. I didn't expect Mr. Fu to be cold and cold on the surface. But you are so wild in private. Sister, please stop eavesdropping . Well, I don't have eyes. I'm still eavesdropping . Your legs are feeling. The meridians in your legs have healed. I'll help you get up and walk around to try. My legs can actually move. Thank you so much. This is what I should do . Find the key and get out. You can go away . Come on , Mr. Fu , your legs are healed. Mommy is really good medicine for daddy. Kiss mommy. An'an is talking nonsense again . Don't worry, daddy will do it. Thank you very much, Mummy. Mr. Fu, why don't you help Madam get the things back ? Mr. Fu, this is a clue to what the Jin family did. You have a lot of connections here. I believe it will be up to you to find out the truth. Don't worry, the top priority now is Break off the engagement, go back to the old house, bring the wheelchair, dear mommy, why don't we go home with daddy ? I want to live with daddy. From now on, the three of us will live a good life . Don't recognize too many people. It 's really useless . It's messed up again . Ah Xing Why are you so close to that woman Jin Shining? You want to marry Jin Xiaoran? What will others think of our Fu family 's marriage if word spreads ? I don't intend to engage in an engagement. Ah Xing , you want to break off the engagement. Are you sure that you have been smitten by that woman Jin Shining ? Jin Xiaoran is much more reliable than her and can help you with your legs. The disease can be cured reliably. She kept saying that she would help me heal my leg , but she secretly bribed the doctor to keep me disabled so that I could rely on her. But Jin Shining Shining helped me cure my leg disease. What do you mean she cured you? Ah Xing, your legs are so good. Yes , I didn't say anything about grandpa's phone call to Twinkle . You probably didn't either, but Jin Xiaoran knew you meant her and your grandpa's death. I can't rule it out. I've sent people to investigate. I believe the truth will come to light soon. In this case, over to the Jin family, I'm going to talk about what happened seven years ago. We need to speed up. I want to show my innocence. Xiao Ran, what did the Fu family say to you ? When will the engagement be held? They won't cancel it, Mom , don't worry, Mrs. Fu likes me. How can I ask Fu Xing to cancel the engagement? Just wait and see! Isn't this phone call coming ? Hey, Aunt Xiaoran, you and If Ah Xing's engagement is cancelled, I will give the Jin family a compensation. That's it . What 's Auntie feeding Xiao Ran ? Without the support of the Fu family, the family may go bankrupt. Jin Shining, you bitch, don't try to stop me from marrying the Fu family. The Fu family's property can only be mine. I will go to her to settle the account now. Thank you, Madam, for your help. Ms. Jin is actually Mr. Fu's wife. Director Wang is joking. How could I be Mr. Fu's wife? Shining is unwilling to disclose our relationship in front of others. This is to completely draw a clear line between me. Director Wang may have been before. I forgot to explain. Shining is my wife. There may have been some misunderstandings between us before. Don't talk nonsense. We are all divorced. Director Wang. In fact, I am Fu Xing's ex-wife, Miss Jin . It is normal for husband and wife to have conflicts and communicate well. You see, Mr. Fu is here to come. When I see you for treatment, I keep pretending that I have a leg problem, which shows how deep my love is . I think Director Wang is right , so I won't bother you anymore. Mr. Fu, Mrs. Fu, please continue , please let me go and listen to my explanation, okay? I hate that we should never meet again in the future. I believe that your grandfather's death was not your fault. I will definitely find out. I didn't answer the phone. This is an indisputable fact. Shining believes in me that everything will come to light. What happened seven years ago is a foregone conclusion. No one can think of finding out again that Mr. Langhua 's feelings are really complicated. Why are you here ? An An, why don't you call me daddy this time ? Mommy said you can't identify daddy randomly. You will know soon. Could it be that Fu Xing already knows that the child is him? The baby is gone. Don't worry about it, Mr. Fu. You can go and do your work first . I'll come back to see you after I'm done. Mr. Fu, Ping'an has a birthmark on his body and is also allergic to peanuts. How could such a coincidence happen in the world? So I think Ping'an is. My child is like this. Let's go for another paternity test. Didn't you do it last time ? I suspect that someone manipulated me last time. We must not make mistakes this time. Let me tell you honestly what happened. It's not what you saw just now. It 's all a misunderstanding . I just saw Daddy hugging Mommy tightly. Shining believes in me that everything will come to light. Why can I still find a sense of security from him ? It's over. Mommy is in love. I know a lot at a young age. I am talented. I'm not a three-year-old anymore. Brother, what is the love brain? Let's stop this topic. Mommy will take you to eat, call a car , and the phone is out of battery. Let 's go first. Just this woman, let me do things neatly. Miss Jin, don't worry , mommy . Brother, I'm warning you that love brains will not end well. What is love brains? Do you put daddy and mommy in your head ? Then I also want love brains. An'an, you are still young and you don't know now. You will know when you grow up. Let 's go, strange sparkling. Why can't I get through? Is there any danger? Do n't worry, Mr. Fu, the battery may be out. Be careful, Mr. Fu. Don't be afraid that I don't have Fu Xing . Daddy, don't sleep there. Daddy, you're lucky . Mommy, he's definitely fine. The ambulance at the hospital will take half an hour at the fastest. Then daddy, Daddy, can't be saved . Mommy, don't feel sorry for me. Come and save Daddy. Daddy will wake up soon. Fu Xing, Fu Xing . How are you? I'm fine. Mommy and Daddy's wounds need to be treated . Let's take him back to the hospital. Madam, I'll leave it to you, Mr. Fu . Take off your clothes . How can I disinfect without taking it off ? I didn't expect it to stop shaking. Something big happened to Mr. Fu. Something big happened to Mr. Fu. Madam Mr. Fu , I'm leaving . Assistant Mo, Mr. Fu's injury has been taken care of. I'll trouble you next. Sorry, Mr. Fu . I don't have eyes. What's wrong? Mr. Fu, the hair sample you asked me to send to the hospital is missing. Tell the director to check it carefully. If he can't find it, he should n't do it. That's right. I have another one here. We must go together this time. Keep an eye on Mommy, you and Daddy have reconciled. Why are you two kids so elusive ? It's not us , it's you who are immersed in happy memories and can't extricate yourself. You kid , Mommy, let's move to Daddy's house, okay? The president has already followed your instructions. How long will it take to get the results after investigating clearly ? Mr. Fu, the fastest is half an hour. It's broken as soon as possible. Fu Xing is coming to do the paternity test again. I have to tell Twinkle quickly why she 's not answering the phone at this time. What are you doing? How brave are you? You dared to hit my mommy. The car was going too fast and I didn't see clearly. You're talking nonsense. You were the one who hit me. Mommy , my brother has evidence. Who instigated you ? I just said that the car was going too fast and I didn't see clearly. You are deaf. You can't cry without seeing the coffin. Hey, if you have the ability, you can kill me. If you do n't have the guts, Ah Cheng, who doesn't dare to do it yet, please bring my knife . You've seen too many Hong Kong movies, haven't you? I can do the same, pretty boy, don't mess around, hahaha Young and Dangerous boy, do you think it's your bones or this iron rod that's stronger? Seriously, do n't tell me who asked you to hit my mommy. I said, I said, I said it was Jin Xiaoran, that woman is indeed What 's wrong with her ? That person didn't answer the phone. Could it be that something happened? Xiaoran, you shouldn't find someone to bump into her. If Mr. Fu finds out about your affairs, it's even more impossible. If Jin Shining is alive, Fu Xing will It's even more impossible to be with me. Which one of you is taking away ? Don't take away my daughter. Don't block the road. What are you doing? Let go of my mother. Save me. The doctor's report is out. It's safe. It's really my child. Mr. Fu has found out . Jin The hair sample that the lady deliberately threw went to Jin's house. How dare you do this to me, Jin Xingxuan ? How can you find someone to bump into me ? Can't I just bring you home ? I don't know what you are talking about. I have a witness. Jin Xiaoran, you finally want to do it. Because of my behavior, it must be A Xing who came to save me. A Xing Pei, why are you here? Why are you still panting? Something big happened. Fu Xing , what happened to me ? Fu Xing, what is going on? Dr. Pei, I have something to say with Shining. If you say that, I won't be far away. Hey, hey, Ah Xing, please save me Jin Shining Shining. She wants to kill me. Shining Shining won't do such a thing. But you should know what you did . Are you okay? A Xing, what are you talking about ? What? You have looked down on me since you were a child. Now you are resorting to all means to slander me. Huh, you are so good at acting and not an actor. It's a pity that you brought him out. He was the one who hit Mommy. He also said that it was Jin Xiaozai who instigated it, not me. I didn't do it. You said it yourself. Who in the hell instigated you? Tell me quickly . I don't know. That's not what you said before. Ah Xing. Did you see it? It's her who is slandering people and taking them to the police station . Ah Xing , I knew you would definitely speak for me. See the guests off safely . You don't have to rush us. We know how to leave, Ah Xing. Let's go back . You go back first. I still have something to do. I 'm not welcome here. Come on, give dad a chance, okay ? Just this time, brother, give dad a chance. Just this time, dad, come on. Don't be angry. Good Mr. Fu, what are you doing? Of course you are hugging my wife. And I don't like it when you call me Mr. Fu. It seems too strange. Mr. Fu, you have found the wrong person. Jin Xiaoran is your wife, I'm not Twinkle. Hey , it's useless even if you give me a chance. Brother, it seems it's time for us to take action . Let's go and help mommy pack her luggage. Twinkle , I know it's all my fault . I'm too stupid. You're right. It's me who's wrong. I shouldn't have known you, let alone married you. Shining, I will spend the rest of my life making up for the mistakes I made before, and I will also give my children a complete home . Give me another chance, okay? So you know. Ping'an, it's your child that's why you treat me like this, not me. You are really my father. An'an , you want to run away from home. I'm not running away from home. I want to live with my father. An'an, don't mess around. I just want to live with my father. An'an, daddy will take you back. Is your home okay ? Mommy, let's go. I 'll help you with your luggage. Mommy, you won't want us anymore . Let 's go . I will not let you be wronged this time, A Xing . You want to make my mother angry to death. She suffered too much for me and gave birth to two children for me. I will compensate her well for the rest of my life. It means Ping Ping An An is my grandchild. Yes, Ping Ping Anan is your grandchild. Didn't you guys join forces to lie to me? The sky has eyes. Our Fu family has an heir. Grandma , my little baby , you are so cute . Brother , what are you doing? Don't call me grandma. Grandma. Hey , he looks exactly like A Xing when he was a child. He is cold and handsome. Hey, I'm different from him. He's just a blockhead . Okay, okay , listen to your mother, Li. Go and put Madam's luggage back in the room. I understand, old madam. Oh, Mom, you are trying to kill me. I'll just leave my Madam's luggage here. It's so hard. Madam Li, Mrs. Li hasn't been back for a long time. I'll cook you something delicious after tonight. Thank you, Ma Li. What's the matter with this cabinet? It's a little dirty . Let Ma Li clean it later. It's okay. I'll do it myself. Hey, I won't bother you. Let Ma Li clean it later. You're blocking me like this. Do I have any secrets ? What secrets can I have? Then get out of the way. Hey, Twinkle . Get out of the way. This misunderstanding is over. Hey, come over right away . I'll beg you. Don't make any mistakes this time. Dr. Pei, don't worry , I'm here. Accident Miss Jin, Dr. Pei got a serious heart disease in order to save you. He never let me tell you . Please take good care of him. I know, thank you. Pei Yixiao , how are you ? I'm fine. Why have you been hiding it from me? Tell me. What can you do? It will only make you feel guilty. I don't want to do this. Pei Yi, I owe you too much. Shining Pei , take your dirty hands away from me. Fu Xing, what are you doing? Pei Yi is sick. Pei Yi, please ignore him and have a good rest. Are you okay? Now that Twinkle has said it, I don't know Mr. Fu anymore . Can you call this Twinkle? I've known Twinkle for so many years. From now on, you are not allowed to call Fu Xing that way . Just say a few words. &quot; Hey, Twinkle, I'm fine. You should go back with Mr. Fu. It doesn't matter that I'm here alone . You're doing this to save me. I can't ignore your Twinkle. Can't you see that he's just faking? Hurry out and have a good rest, Mr. Fu.&quot; The road to chasing your wife is a long one . Come on. If you can't speak, shut up. Daddy, your fighting power is so weak. So you were kicked out by your love rival. Hey, hey, hey. If this continues, maybe you two will really come to the top. Little ancestor, please help me. I should have known it now . Why bother now ? Daddy really knew that I was wrong . Please help me just once, okay ? A man's words are deceiving , not to mention he is a brainless man. Brother, daddy already knows that he is wrong. Please help daddy. Well, I swear that I will love Mommy and protect her for the rest of my life, okay? Just believe it for the time being. You are indeed my son when your ears pop out. I inherited it, but Mommy's excellent genes are not like yours, which are slightly hot. Shiny, you are so virtuous and not angry . Shiny, yes. If you love me, please stop teasing me. There is something on your face, Twinkle , why are you here again ? Pingpingan said, look for mom and leave it to me . You can go find them. Okay, I'll be back in a minute. Twinkle has moved to Fu's house. You won't have any chance. It's impossible. If Dr. Pei doesn't believe it, you can ask Twinkle in person or ask the children, Fu Xing. You hurt Twinkle 7 years ago. Do you want to hurt her again? Twinkle is my favorite. Of course I won't hurt her at all. Don't pretend to be sick for me anymore. Just leave me alone. Fu Xing , I won't let you get it. I will use all means to do it. Twinkle, stay with me. Twinkle, you go back with Fu Xing. I can't die . Fu Xing, the green tea man. What did you say to Pei Yi again? I told him to stop pretending to be sick. You can't be together . How can Pei Yi pretend to be sick? Fu Xing. You let go of Twinkle. Twinkle is the child's mother. It's normal for me to hold her. But you're a very courageous guy. Let me go. If you want to let me go, you should let me go first . If you let go , he should let go first. It seems like this. Mr. Fu's love rival is really powerful. My stupid dad is so stupid. Brother, it's time for us to be domineering. Uncle Pei, please let mommy go. I hope daddy and mommy are safe together. How can you help this bad guy? What are you talking about, Pei Yi? I told you that Twinkle has brought the child back to our Fu family. Please stop pretending to be sick. You are just pretending . But stop pretending to be sick. Just leave me alone. Pei Yi Fuxing , you are really insidious and cunning Dr. Pei. No matter how insidious I am , I am not as insidious as you, right? Twinkle, have you forgotten how he lied to you seven years ago? Don't let him lie to you again . We don't need you, an outsider, to intervene in our affairs. Mommy, wait, my sister, wait for me, my last time. I'm warning you not to have any fantasies about her in the future. Mr. Fu, wait a minute , Mommy, don't run away. An An can't catch up with these two cuties. Why don't we leave first and give Mommy and Daddy some time? How about I finally be smart this time, sister? It was my fault that we left 7 years ago. I know you won't forgive me so quickly , but trust me, I will prove it with time, okay, please , Twinkle , Twinkle , I will give you a big gift. Goodbye, you are finally back. What's going on? Why did those people kidnap you ? It's all Jin Shining's fault. She knew that I was looking for someone to hit her, and she told Fu Xing what to do. Don't panic. The person I bribed has already changed his story. Chuan Xing doesn't believe it. He really scared me. By the way , will Fu Xing suspect that you killed Jin Shining's mother and his grandfather 7 years ago ? Dad, what are you afraid of? He has no evidence and can't do anything to me. Who said there is no evidence? Fu Xing, why are you here? How can you expose your crime if I don't come ? What do you mean? Could it be that you betrayed me, Xiao Ran ? We have no choice , why don't you just surrender? If you surrender now, you can still seek leniency. Surrender, I am not at fault . The wrong person is you . You took everything away from me . By the way, I forgot to tell you that your mother was still chanting your name when she was dying. Jin Xiaozai, damn, calm down, come on . I didn't get what I wanted , but now I see you. It's worth it for me to be so sad . Hahahaha. Take her away and let her sit in jail. Let go of my daddy and mommy. You guys are back. How are things going? Mom. Jin Xiaoran has personally admitted that Shining's mother and her grandfather are both. She was the one who killed her, but it was really her. I saw the wrong person. My mom and grandma are fine. She will wake up soon. Mom, how do you feel when you wake up ? I feel like nothing is wrong this time, thanks to my good granddaughter. Grandma, thank you. Mommy said that family members have to help each other . Thank you for your hard work, An An. It 's not my fault to look at you with colored glasses all the time. You are really kind and have raised two such good children. Auntie , don't say that . It's all me. What you should do is that Xing Xing has always had you in his heart these years. Can you forgive him once? Auntie. I have already forgiven him. Wouldn't it be too foreign to call him aunt ? Mom, take a good life in the future. You two have a good life. Go away. I can't just do this. I can't give up . I want to go to the bathroom. There are so many things to do. You will be in the station later . I really can't hold it in anymore . Okay , you two, follow her . You two, take a look. Come on, brother is finally here. Daddy and Mommy's wedding I'm so excited. I hope Daddy will be nicer to Mommy in the future, otherwise I won't be able to forgive him. Daddy must be kind to us and Mommy. Stop, Pingping . Are you okay? Jin Xiaoran, Jin Shining, if you want your daughter to live, come quickly. Xijiao Factory Mommy, don't come here , you little cutie , shut up , Jin Xiaoran , don't touch my daughter. You will never see your lovely daughter again in this life until 10 minutes. What's going on? An'an is and I didn't have time to explain to you. I went to A Xing An'an and was kidnapped by Jin Xiaoran. Twinkle went alone. Please call someone to help. I'm scared, mom. Don't worry, Twinkle will be fine. You little cutie, be honest with me. Otherwise, I will make you unable to eat and walk around in pockets. You are such a bad woman. I shouldn't have saved you in the first place . Let me go. But the president of the Fu Group has offended him. You cannot eat and walk around in pockets. Fu, the richest man in Yuncheng City, Mr. Jin, you are not someone we can afford to offend. You are a waste. If you are afraid , just get out of here. You better be honest with me or I will prevent you from seeing your mommy. If you dare to touch me, my dad will not let you go. Today , I want to see what your father will do to me if I touch you. You stopped very quickly. It seems that you feel very sorry for your daughter, Jin Xiaoran. You can let An An go . It's a life for a life. I'll let it go. Get her, mommy, don't move, An'an, hurry up, I don't have the patience, 9754 , stop , flash , A Xing , die, Daddy, A Xing, A Xing, hold on, I'll take you to the hospital, Fu Xing, wake up quickly, okay, brother, Daddy, I'm sure It'll be fine, right? He's blessed with great fortune. He must be fine . A Xing finally woke up and scared me to death. Brother, let 's go well . Twinkle, I'm fine. I won't let you worry anymore .