The Ouroboros is an ancient symbol of many interpretations of it: One is the endless as the snake eats more of its back, the most literal is destruction, the snake This is the worst era in film history. I don't I don't know if there are more flops than if movies are getting more bad reviews than in we are in the worst era in film history. for the past ten years mainstream culture has been mired with problem after problem, shackled what made those original nostalgic movies trying to deny the sacredness of death, yes you You've heard the opinion: "there's too many become cliche. The more accurate problem is that days, I doubt many people would be complaining if I also don't think a landscape filled with to be good. You may say "well hang on, that's original indie and low budget films coming have but mainstream culture is important, it's eyeballs. I think it says something about us and of some of our most paid artists that mainstream an age of not just copies, but bad copies, and Psst, there's something I want to tell you our family has a picture on our kitchen island pretty radical. Problem is, we don't have any idea an illuminating website. It can search through are a few names and dates and it will start to new information. Instant Discoveries is a way for I can add people I know are in my past which can Hey Mom, I'm on the MyHeritage website again. of my Grandmother when she was probably activates that section of my brain that's age of 3 I'm looking at her in that touched Can you tell me who this person is? Yeah I have no idea. Was I found an alternative photo and I'm pretty This is Nancy James. Born 1855, she was born If this kind of family sleuthing interests you, below and enjoy all MyHeritage has to offer. SEQUELS The Star Wars franchise has got to be century. The Star Wars Sequel Trilogy has franchise addition in history--even more before it. But why is that? I won't belabor The sequel trilogy and a vast majority of star and this is not something that Watch the entirety of the original three mistakes--objective mistakes: A stormtrooper or Luke kicking too far from an actor about coincidences or contrivances in gets more and more of his friends captured Han Solo. If you really analyze this And if you tallied up these problems across the probably have 100 problems some big some small, large and complicated fictional story and world. become more numerous and more severe; why do Why does Obi Wan smash through a window to latch his death? Why isn't this assassination drone it back? I know Obi Wan is a Jedi but this is thrown very hard capable of shattering star prequels flaws have to do with characters: like the dark side and maiming someone to defend in mere minutes. Or how Obi Wan leaves Anakin these is that the prequels affect the continuity I would estimate there may be a thousand Again these are estimates, the exact number from trilogy to trilogy these problems when I talk about problems--I'm not talking emotional connection to the films. I'm talking errors that may not be noticed by the audience at damage the work upon further contemplation, and When you get to the sequel trilogy, across thousands of problems. A knife is painted out of fight scene, the half-sunken wreckage of knife map that can only work while standing at at a specific part of the wreckage, (all of should not exist in huge pieces like this rolls across the desert at 200 mph and explodes. Even if you like these films you have to admit in a coherent story. You have to admit these films films are riddled with them, it is rare for any And what compounds problems like these are how they effect the original and prequel trilogies. The Force Awakens was hugely influential on begun to comprehend. Much of the teasing in the franchise giants. The Force Awakens rehashes the of a New Hope which satisfied most people at the substance in itself, beyond a few concepts of The Last Jedi also borrows iconography such as the rebels being scattered and hunted why the resistance, which should be in power, is have an overwhelming force? Sure there are but they only seek to cut short plot lines And finally you have the Rise of Skywalker that it resurrects a villain from the original sequel trilogy even things like spaceships are or soft reboots of original trilogy ships--there no changing of the power dynamics in the galaxy, of the warring factions from the decades before, ideas, there is no change in how we understand the this trilogy it became blatantly obvious that they this many problems within a trilogy because of a out of whack from the very beginning. There was a lack of time, a lack of care. From the very feel, and success of the original trilogy but or originality to do that. If they did just rehash the problem is the sequel trilogy isn't it's a bad copy. All they could do was chew In the Ahsoka TV series, based off of a character they have to bring back Hayden Christensen's Darth Vader, in the Book of Boba Fett they have to in the animated clone wars, just to kill him off in the effort to bring in this character in story forever. At the end of the Han Solo film people. I just remembered this, at the end of Obi Even in The Acolyte, despite how terrible it is, or referenced characters. But still it has to have red lightsaber, and has to tease us at the very themselves. Could Star Wars TV shows utilize these Will they ever use them as anything else than as with memories of better things? No. That's all is their one good show which makes it miles have any of these silly character teases. The The original Star Wars was a product of multiple artist during a time where innovation was form is capable of replicating that right now. The and shows that are bad and forgettable than it Disney has diluted the brand and its identity. environments that don't feel alien; there are taking tests, and wearing backpacks, aliens that go to homes with pitched roofs. This isn't a original movie suburb with a coat of paint! It artists are making things that are only references incest of ideation, I don't think we're going When you look at the recent Marvel Movies problems just like this. In Endgame simply revisiting Marvel's greatest hits No Way Home is a better movie than you'd expect to bring back Sam Raimi's villains and previous At least the film has the balls to re-handle well received but I fear Hollywood learned the Doctor Strange in the Multi-verse of Madness was and it was so bad it gave me a headache by the sense and fundamentally not understanding what bring in recognizable characters such as Mr. Fantastic played by John Krasinski, Captain five minutes later kill them all violently in to be with her imaginary kids. It's baffling. also riddled with problems and callbacks. it's riddled with problems and callbacks. Alien Oh god I haven't even mentioned all the Jurassic Wonder Woman 1984, Matrix Resurrections, yet there has not just been a bunch but there has been at least one infamous sequel Dumb and Dumber To was released which I saw but I how gross and old Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels Wait "the United States Department of Justice stolen from a Malaysian government investment If you look at the announcements for Disney movies not sequels or remakes, and only 3 are seemingly does not get much better. People would probably if most of these sequels were stellar, but be awful. The Snow White remake is ludicrously controversy and a one year delay. The Toy Story has no idea where to go. The Lion King remake of the original Lion King to use as a crutch. been a disaster. Incredibles 2 did not live up has the teeth to ever make a good Incredibles well? Yes. Is it likely? No. A landscape of purely ADAPTATIONS I used to think there were no bad ideas, only The existence of a live action Harold and the it. An animated film adapting Harold would film seems...(maybe I'm being dramatic here) the children's book is that it's a story about everything he does in the book is 2-dimensional shakes his crayon and unintentionally creates this...in fact they fully animate the first five world. WHY? If you have to have live action why interact with the real world? Making this cute into the boring, already made real world that drawings instead of taking the obvious path and While we're on children's books a "The Giving (and I know damn well a producer has looked at the book is so concise in its message and to convey its message that there is very little A typical Hollywood screenwriter would probably do in the story and god forbid we'd have a bunch my branches and play in my shade..." "whoa did I must be going crazy?!" Is it possible for a but it would have to be very creative new in a way I can't even fathom and I think is it possible for a Giving Tree movie to be that's damn near impossible without This is what makes the Joker movie kind of mental illness and living in a culture lacking in universe. It's a Trojan horse movie: sneaking in a DC super-villain film. After Joker's success with "Big Franchise" paint on them, but I The Lego Movie is a film that but surprisingly is. I owe most of its success story before trying to sell its product, The film really ties everything together by but only as a way to emphasize what the purpose The Super Mario Brothers Movie is possibly the seen. (I'm not talking about the original which yeah that's the movie. There is not a single thing it's not bad--it's nice, its fine. This film was the story was not insulting and the movie treats lesser film might be irritatingly sarcastic and but because this film is faithful and interprets charitable to the film than it probably deserves. going to be profoundly mediocre. I can Oh the main character you play as in the I'm gonna roll my eyes. *sigh* This guy is such a toolbag. Look at the animals and how derpy they look, wow the world is made of blocks isn't that weird, isn't that just heckin crazy? What the hell? You don't have to place things right on the crafting table to craft who cares? I hope it depresses me that no matter what happens Right in the middle of editing this the trailer Stalenhag's graphic novel was released and I looks. This trailer is pure slop. More triple A characters. Looks like we're getting another artwork and turn it into this? "Son of a SHUT UP SHUT UP. I have never seen anyone pure loud marvel action CRAP. Oh my god talk They key to making a work based on an treating the thing you're adapting seriously if you understand it on its own merits you'll enters the real world or vice versa" plot and isn't going to cut it for most things. you're going to have to work by and artifact or else you're just taking something REMAKES Most Disney "Live Action" remakes are financially immensely sobering fact. The Lion King remake is trailer. The Aladdin remake is bad, I knew it blue mug. Guess what? The Lilo and Stitch movie to be bad-the Moana remake is going to be bad. why does anyone expect the next one to be good? the fact it's a recognizable property done up before but with added spectacle. I can moan and artistic drive but people, regular common We're paying for our culture to be cannibalized. remakes aren't just copies they're bad copies. to see that this remake is demonstrably worse in seemingly every way. From the animation, to the I expected the Aladdin 2019 Remake to be just discover it is a film worse than its original in and bloated beyond belief. You feel that extra liked, a bunch of things that made no difference, actively worse. To name just two: The added songs the second one literally pauses the universe of it's the most jarring thing I've ever in the cave of wonders--the cave where you're not the gem that comes later that causes the it doesn't cave in or spew lava. Aladdin walks on treasure!! They didn't have to put these put treasure on major walkways. If you the mistakes in this film compound on themselves Disney could have had Will Smith play which he does sparingly, but for the most part they spent a million dollars and thousands of and make him repeat all of Robin Williams lines they tried their damn best to make the "Friend action, I mean their sequence uses so much CGI in comparison to the 2D original because animation constraints of live action. It's so dumb. Evening. Evening. Guards are behind me. Nearly everything they add is terrible and everything they rehash is rehashed in a worse way. The Beauty and the Beast remake is adds very little I like, puts in a bunch of of things that make it worse. Gaston doesn't it possibly be? It's genuinely admirable how work in realistic CGI but they just can't. still so boring and bloated, it adds 2 tiny thing and adds a whole lot of things that make it worse. 2 of which are not just forgettable but heard. The one sung by Prince Eric really helps most of the song he just drones on while walking good portrayal of Ursula. Nice job. They seemed sea creatures, especially during the Under the Sea nautical themed instrument. I find it comforting for Disney. "No don't put that sand dollar in your pocket, sir, not in your pocket it'll get mixed in with the others and become Besides parts of Aladdin, which is amazingly bad almost as soon as they entered, their greatest is nothing to be gained from these because Wait a second, Solar Sands, there are Hi guys solar sands roommate Kino Corner remakes are bad. *cheeky Trump impression* can't stop running out of ideas! But, you know but not all remakes are bad. In Would you guess that classic movies like The Magnificent Seven, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Heck, even the most badass movie of all time, a remake of a tv movie he made called LA Takedown, make it better. And it worked out! Everyone loves I wanna take a look at two beloved movies that are start with Scarface. You hear that title and you with chainsaws, and introducing all his buddies remake of a Howard Hawks film that released in films share some thematic similarities about the line "the world is yours," and so on, but they're version, Paul Muni plays as an Italian gangster director, Brian de Palma, set it clearly in South the 80s drug trade, Cuban immigration, and 1980s film as a baseline and he entirely reworked it so Now, as for A Fistful of Dollars, it's a very It's beat-for-beat almost the exact same film, traded samurai aesthetics for cowboy aesthetics. sued the production for royalties and credits. I have just had the chance to see your film. It Japan is a signatory of the Berne Convention on Does that make A Fistful of Dollars bad? No! the same story, same beats, and some of the same films have excellent direction and Toshiro Mifune They can coexist and work as complementary What I'm getting at is this: remakes can be or even great, when the people making them their own spin on it. Sometimes, there are just executed poorly. Those are great films to the original went wrong and make something good when it's a person or a studio who just of people's nostalgia. If the intention CULTURAL CANNIBALISM When I first saw the CGI version of Peter Rogue One the worst of my feelings were I fear it was the beginning of While using old footage and "computer the likeness of a long dead actor has been more and more commonplace to simulate the CGI and AI and puppet them around in movies. original Ghostbusters shows up in Ghostbusters: in that awful Flash movie as a horribly uncanny some dead some still alive, including Just recently, Ian Holm's likeness was as another android. The director Fede Alverez, received authorization from the rest of his loved it". Besides the fact she could not possibly to me that Ian Holm's wife and family approved of but my stance on this as a moral issue is face and voice of a dead person, as if they especially when it is entirely avoidable. required Ian Holm's likeness, the android could Alverez defends himself saying it was a genuine at stake with these kinds of films I just don't and that it's not an instant reason to avoid this of editing or even a CGI model in the case that their scenes. It's quite another to bring an avoidable for---let's face it--a cheap thrill To be clear, it wouldn't matter if these and it wouldn't matter if they got permission of these cameos. If they got consent from the like this while that would be better I would subtle and tasteful ways to honor a dead some sort of action figure just speaks to a the intention of using a long dead actor is simply playing archival footage of an actor. This who while is imitating a dead person can easily be This is a trick of digital necromancy, an and aura of a once real person. It's not just refusal of death and a denial of the sacredness die. No franchise can simply end--if it does No once living actor can rest if they can be If the film industry can't stop themselves from is salivating at the thought of being able to to do it with the intro to Secret Invasion. certain the only thing on Disney executives Because even though Darth Vader's Story has been he's too popular NOT to bring back. They have Christ, is there going to be a point we don't whole system is based on intellectual properties which doesn't allow interesting scripts to succeed going to resurrect actors just to play the is why I call this the worst era in film and sequels in movie history, but I have People have to stop paying for these movies these movies because when I hear about them movies have been out for a few weeks no one talks grossing film in the US this year. When was the ton of money last year. When was the last time a live action Avatar remake on Netflix this year I Pinocchio remake came out? Another Ghost-busters On the other hand, when Dune Part 2 was released about it, and yes it is a remake, but of a considered the most perfect film of the 80s I believe these films will have no cultural this. They have no staying power. Disney has a their backlog and even if they remake every single out they will be screwed. We saw them try and make music in a Disney musical was bad, can you believe When people say that if you keep complaining about all these sequels and remakes and films based off as if the audience was some they fail to realize I would rather have cannibalize our culture. These studio films been sold significantly worse products than to fail. I want them to fail because they have But if it's the case that these kinds of films ahead, where the same handful of franchises are are spent not on artists trying to move us into we will not only see the same ideas on the big Reminder that if family sleuthing interests link below and enjoy all MyHeritage has to offer. Another announcement: FUTO, a tech is holding a contest for all UI and UX designers. language for their brand and apps. The grand time position. It's only open to US residents you can learn more at contest.futo.org it's just a potential job opportunity for A special thanks to the Kino Corner for his is linked in the description. The names who help support the channel. Their funds if you want to become a patron you also some of my writing, early video announcements, link in the description below. Anyway,