[Spiff] &quot;From the moment I saw that a speedrun category existed, with one single submission, I knew that myself a great player. This was the run that people wanted to lead the charge into what is one of the ensued since, is multiple months of learning, and if they too could just finish a run. We'll have let me give you a quick intro to the run. Start on loot density, get a lot in three days, and oversell grind - begins. You'll need to collect around 12,000 looking at a minimum average of 400 a day, to store to 3,000. That average still includes days where it Girl spawns early or Jester spawns early or Coil-Head spawns early, and if you die your run is over, because your ship gets wiped. Welcome to quota 10 past months - and will now consume your next couple this video is about the good ones. The quota 8, 9, getting enough scrap. Then finally becoming - the Huh, three stop signs. Four stop signs! What to fight, yeah. Okay, let us un-spread my What? Okay. That's so wild for that to - to happen Okay, I want to sell... five hundred and seventy... yep. That's, that's pretty nice! And I actually died to the Whoopie-Cushion chat. Again, this is the one day. Well that's nice. That's nicer! Oh and... okay, okay, I won't say anything! Damn! Jeez I get Oh this is, such a nice place! It is a nice place inhospitable. Like, for real? It's actually unreal, good ass day. Um, I just have to figure out, how than seven sixty-one. Now I want to sell exactly two thirty-four. Yeah, worth. And then I'll go back to Titan for quota wonder if maybe it's worth it to just, spend the feckin', go to, Titan again? So really the question to go back to Titan for quota 2 or - quota 3, be worth would get five hundred more. I think it is worth it to just I... with the way I play it I wouldn't even really really think that Titan is less - is more dangerous like 90% of my deaths. There's two things I hate on Titan - suck. I feel like specifically Mansion Titan - all loot on Mansion Titan. That's just paranoia? No it's ass, tit, then com. Look at the current Loaf cam. Kinda shit. Looking at a six item Titan. It do it. The world's been good to us so spiggy bank hey? Problem with that is like, fuck? Dah! Oh yeah the Mansions are so nice are the best! There's always loot, right cope that there's never loot near what the fuck is this, there's nothing! Holy He's camping main entrance. If I know anything nothing near the entrance, so I'm going to have to stun him with the stun gun. That's crazy, because, one to smack. Ten a.m. Thumper? You shouldn't have. shouldn't have. Yeah two bad Titans in a row. All right let's see if we can we should be doing. We might have pushed it hearing. Okay buddy. Good morning, 10 a.m. Bracken. Ah... am I being a baby, yeah. I just don't rod! Loaf, what are you doing? You're fuckin Can't fight off Loaf right now. She's Okay. It's time to blast. Okay! A successful stormy Titan day. Sucks! Sucks a lot, but not You wanna, you wanna unscramble I'd appreciate that. Now we have a What! Drugs, empty! No lightning does to get stuck, on the rods. And then, you know, man, talk about a jump scare! Holy. I got a good increase! Damn it! Damn it! Damn it damn it! There's have to be checking because at times it's going Fuck! But what if I could? I practiced it a fair loot? Close to the front door? On a Titan Mansion? The fuck did I just hear? I know what that's Loot Bug? Yeah okay. I hear him. Why, You little - asshole. A five item Mansion my Mansion Titans. Well that was a... pretty this going to be? A two fifty-eight. Which means all in make quota! If I only had these three days, which gives us four hundred - so I'd have to sell three hundred to sell... specifically two hundred and fifty more. What matters nice Titan runs. It's eclipsed! Oh my God! Whatever gamer! Do I really want you? The only two items I found make Lol. That was a, that was a flex. One forty-nine. again! You've got to be kidding me dude All right. How does this work? Can I just - leave? The jetpack was a necessary sacrifice. I am serious, loot does not spawn Well I don't know where bro is! Please no dog. This is getting bad! This is three eclipses mean! If we get a fourth Titan eclipse in a that. No way! I'm buying two jetpacks! Okay stun grenades. That's if I need to grab loot 8! Thirteen forty-two. With just not enough money. We need like I, I need a thusand, just to make this Bit high? Uh... okay. Oh please. No, dude I can't. It's going not. Can't - go away I need to go Four ninety one, on eclipsed. Chat we bought bought three jetpacks, actually. Oh my God Did they up the uh, the chances of uh, There's a Mimic. Well at the very non-existent. Thank you. New creature data? That's, that's incredible. Oh shit. Well, that was an embarrassing fight! Cool. Spider was just testing my, a twelve item - twelve item I think? Day. Six fiftey-nine, it's daily. We're about to sell quota 8. Then we roughly average out what we need over the be alarmingly high. All right, time to of: ohh, twenty-four hundred. So... I need two thousand to get the about five thousand? Every day? Not every day. About Time for the fire exit! That's a lot of big items. Near activity detected, as And today was not a hella day, it That's not a piece of loot, that's a land mine! You fucking- no fucking way, man, 900 a.m.? Do eclipses effect ins- holy shit Okay wait so I got to make a jump, champ. Oh it's so over. It's a good run, it was a really good real shit. But we had no choice. Coil-Heads of six days of eclipsed? Still believe? It's eclipsed! That was interesting. Oh. Good run, Q9. might get six hundred one day of Titan and feel like a four hundred bad spawn variables mean that you're never far falling behind. The ninth quota being around twenty-three hundred, And suddenly we're two hours in and need eight hundred scrap is just over. The best way to avoid that is to elsewhere. It's a tough call, because you can get clear Assurance - but it's just so much scarier. speedrun community because... it doesn't really matter um, for earlier quotas - one and three mainly - the who gets lucky and has like three bees near their nasty. And, so they would just really trivialize So to make the game not just like a reset fest, I not messing with them. Titan's eclipse- eclipsed, and I maybe I shouldn't have - I, I have no idea where die. Holy shit this was a mistake. I don't know crap! Well, let's uh, let's get a handful to eclipsed Titan. I got to stop being afraid love eclipsed Titan. Like I'll be able coming out of. All right we're at uh - you This is like the edge of the map. So should... that's the main entrance. Okay? So the ship's got to see the ship yet bro? Oh my God! never, ever, ever, ever, ever coming back to eclipsed. Picking up my lightning like - it feels like I have more loot. Wow, Ooh! Hold on can you sell keys? I, I've like... I need to just confirm this. No! Does it contribute to - no it contributed to map's 2.5 times - so are you saying Titan - that... the available loot is just is such a classic for me at this Yeah. I just wanted to do that. That's how you avoid the bad guys. Spigg out American dream if I'm living it? I'm assuming you tits, taking toothpaste, selling it to the tentacle Relax! No! That, that was a random strike. That was test to see if the stars would align and I'd get got were two of the most heartbreaking, out of hello! I'll take two loads! Um, on Assurance. Bruh. Bruh! Got to get Q10 on my birthday it's perfect? happens will happen. Uh snow is fun! I was actually I'm now up in the dumps, cuz there is snow. leave. Oh yeah Paige got me a FNAF poster. wearing right now. It's kind of funny with the for my niece, uh for Christmas. And we happened me but I didn't know. And I saw it and I said poster! And it made her sad. I do like it I just Cuz I mean they are - it's a goofy poster, it's I didn't mean it that way. Eight sixteen, no big deal be able to get over gaps? I wouldn't mind Coil-Heads not being able to get over gaps, they're certainly strong enough. As is. Like I'm, I'm when it comes to Coil-Heads - that I can get behind. I'm not looking! Oh, well, I looked. Just go perspectives of, of what this game could use to And I don't really think that's - the goal of I guess. Besides that I think the dev knows what channel? What does that mean? What's the place with my channel? Loaf. Yeah. My calf, has a tattoo from the four things you did. Is that what the Mount Not a great start to the Jesus! There's a Mimic! Yeah I don't There's a worm! Ah! That's funny. The trick is, to mad - cool. Loaf there was outplay! I could have actually. During this patch there was a bug where get off. One hundred percent dead, no outplay. How about the second button. It's like you know that I'll be well, ok what my water! Oh my gosh cat. Okay. Just relax! Please can mrarr you all you want, you butt! Yeah don't bite me! did we get? Damn it Loaf! Yeah look at you, you're your bread. You're a bully Loaf. You bully me into sabotaging? That's just like Loaf. Okay! Nothing visit this unfurnished empty Mansion. Okay? Three you're going a bit too hard! Don't want to overdo that great? Five items on Mansion Titan, oh! I'm, I got to Uh, bullshit. You are very susceptible to bullshit. And I there's four people, and bullshit happens, it's like: on solo, bullshit happens and your entire run is they bless this day for the lightning to hit my Ooh a robit! And a can! Stop. Oh, shit. No! That's incredible. There was a tiny moment, on this thing with me? And then he did. I see when I said that the - where the greatest talking about. We had three thousand on the ship? Oh on. You can see his foot! That son of a bitch! You toes! There was a moment, right here, where I'm like quick! And then moments before disaster. He's right me and - oh my gosh. That's what I meant when I put died to a Jester. I haven't, technically, but uh... yet doing Q10 runs. I just kept going, and it his retirement announcement midstream so we had be enough to finish a single run? For some reason, loot - I don't think it is. The loot gathered at it's going to be like six hundred now. When I - in reality What? Wait a second. There was a one megabyte patch okay. See this is what I'm talking about chat. year new me going? No no no no. I'm doing great. about me this year is that I'm getting better loot days. If if, if it lines up that it just, it day. But I'm not pushing it ever. The goal is to take too many risks, and I leave fairly early *sighs heavily* Is there a month with more birthdays than any talking like around the whole world September is don't think it would be because of Valentine's friend, and you want to like gross him out, so... that happened between their parents like nine months with one of my friends, is when I figured out that... together, and I figured out it almost lines prior. Just ruined his day. Oh my God! not good. That's really not good actually. a ladder and I'm not that good at the jump? There we go. A Whoopie-Cushion? No way! Another big- a, a turret? I love Dine. Fair enough, fair enough. Yeah I didn't my head cuz it was so feckin' dark. This worst, Q10 run start we've ever had. You know I'm not even upset. Okay now I'm kind of annoyed. Is he broken? Well, that run sucked! Thank you Worm, water tastes good? I think this water would sandy. Ass water? So I've been buying my sister eight years now? But the first year I did, cracking nuts. Which you would really think the nut! They're made of like the same wood that nutcrackers are just decorative. So, my sister's I don't know what you're It was a random lightning strike. That one YouTube. No! That would be massively shocking.&quot; [TTS] &quot;No he's giving the four channels to someone else? Wow! have ever expected! Like leaving? Or like taking a, leave. Yeah I should be the new Game Theory? Pretty I'm pretty sure I'd be the last person he'd pick. I saw your email about wanting to teach me speedrunning. Sorry bro, I've been kind of busy I'll get back to you eventually. Just imagine chat, March mourning him. No more Matt. And then Spiff gets an Matt! Spatt! Yeah! Rise of Spatt. He said he didn't checks out - since he has a kid. That's, totally Really? Kind of forgot about the Worm. Oh! Hey buddy! He wasn't where I thought he was.&quot; [MatPat] &quot;This in total it's, it's somewhere around like, one thousand two hundred I know, we actually did stuff that wasn't FNAF FNAF theories?&quot; [MatPat] &quot;I don't love the fact that Steph True. Where, I'm sitting down at dinner with my best Or we're talking about animatronic toes! I miss her. I was able to play at the PGA, and-&quot; [Spiff] &quot;Nice fit! I wasn't looking at his ass chat! New YouTube comment. Guys, MatPat is quitting. I've been commenting on other people's IP, but to create the IP. Still as a part of theorist - I'm going to be honest, it kind of sounds like more!&quot; [MatPat] &quot;But, he so looks forward to seeing you. And grandpa is so proud of you. And he cherishes the a good amount of chest hair. You can tell from his - his neck. Sorry.&quot; [MatPat] &quot;And with that I'm going to say - for one of the final times - not the final time remember: it's just a theory.&quot; [Spiff] &quot;Nice.&quot; [MatPat] &quot;A game theory!&quot; [Spiff] &quot;Wow. watching.&quot; [Spiff] &quot;So, he's gonna - for, for anybody who just people who've worked on them. But apparently he's ARG channel? I'll like the video sure. Two hundred and fifty thousand likes! rest? You make him sound like he's dead! How did I as he was many of yours. I'm also, I uh, I'm not the sad over stuff, I don't cry that often. Not a flex, I that. When you do these runs you have to harden this year Spigg plink.&quot; [Spiff] &quot;No. All right I'm, I'm not like, would just be objectively the wrong decision to take time to hang out with Paige! So it's not I need to take time off. Paige would probably get days, Paige would be like: so? You uh you making his retirement on Discord in schedule, and he would Spiff here, I've decided to stop speed running and though! I'm not going to eat dog food. My last editing for myself, was uh, cutting dog meat. Not - Am I cursed? Nah. Nah, nah nah nah nah. Nah! We Oh it's just you. This guy's You guys really overestimate Jesters. the edge, I have never died to a Jester in Sorry Loaf you didn't have to suffer for that.&quot; [TTS] &quot;Let's hope you don't get raided while being on Q9 by popular YouTuber and Twitch streamer incident - uh, I don't think Barney would BarneyGoosed, who was doing Q10 rounds solo - as I am - at Q9, and... it's his own fault for his, follow alerts! Not even sub alerts. And so is the best streamer ever man. He's, he's so great, at me. No! Ah! Oh, I'm not getting that in two days. Thank your connection.&quot; [Barney] &quot;Yeah I'm checking my connection is that I started buying a flashlight. While I'd loot, actually being able to see was something I'd wide open and long rooms. Aha! This is your purpose seconds just to see two feet in front of your There's still so much stuff inside will you That's past my bedtime already. The flashlight On eclipses! You've - holy shit! I can't believe - I happened! Oh my God! Just give me a break! Are you it grabbed me! No no no, if I lose chat - you lose.&quot; in this just as much as I am. Gets a good match and Why must I be punished for believing? Dude favorite Lethal Company monster? That Giant in drinking capital of this world. Just in case, we'll No. Ah! I swear to God if, if I missing two loot that Jester death was the saddest death I have I like clown horns! Beep beep! Yeah! Yeah no this is uh, this is great. is more fun with friends when are you going great at the game. I wouldn't want to make I'm so good. That's why I've made it to day! Wow. I mean I'll poke around but - No I, I don't even I don't feel like going which rooms are going to yield, so I I scan a lot, that's important. I know Pog room.&quot; [TTS] &quot;I see you're six hours you'll get it Spiff. Trust.&quot; [Spiff] &quot;You know what Don't really know what that is! Is eight items! Ooh hello! Why don't I rooms that are almost always fruitless, so I for rooms like these actually. Rooms like obviously that sometimes the crappy rooms tell! Eh heh heh! That's the mask, chat. For those who just shuddered. put on the mask, sorry I have no choice. Surviving? occurrence! There's this guy I watched, um... God first in Sea of Thieves. He, he's a fairly casual But uh, he spent like a year He'd never even played Minecraft. I can- Oh my God! [TTS] &quot;Hour six. Stay hydrated chat.&quot; [Spiff] &quot;Not bad. He'd never played like, he can't beat the game. Obviously - he's never He just doesn't finish a run! Cuz he can't beat if he took like, you know, three four hours to do it - but he he'd, you know he'd reset if he died, really, and so, he like death compilations. That was like his YouTube right now. And about a year later he finished minutes. Which is... pretty good! Uh Minecraft record go- uh... weird looking. I I'd recommend just watching recommend watching the run. Like it's, it's a good it's just - it's so weird! Oh yeah they use a... like a, bow, yeah. It's like: because the bow does damage the dragon's head on the same frame that the arrow arrow that one shots the dragon. I got a girl's so thanks! Yeah no problem! She's definitely the usually how it works. Paige has suffered through pretty good grasp of them. If I only do a challenge hear enough about it. Especially if she doesn't very familiar with Q10 runs. Wow! What are you doing On ass! That's so nice!&quot; [TTS] &quot;Damn girl are you [Spiff] &quot;No that's hilarious! How are we doing quota heads? Wowee! Ew. This makes this - this is like a Mansion room peaceful facility experience! I need a flashlight Exactly, Mansion room: derogatory, thank you. The Mansions and uh, Why? What the hell did it detect? True. Oh wow, it's... you got to pay attention Oh my gosh, the gaming God that Thumper sounds like it's outside! Mah! I should've - that's how the critical damage from that fall. Makes tested the jetpack since uh, the Happy wedding! I wonder what a full inventory robot sound- song, but four times over. We Well hey now Thumper... wait. Oh! Oh! A sixty-three lamp- Nope. You know I was under the impression really. Whoa the vibes are off! A Mimic leaving? MatPat would never leave. Chat we it came out. We are on top of the day's news. still going, people are like: MatPat? MatPat. I he like - didn't he like show up in some Never ashamed to tell people that I'm... three feet. Don't copium me 5'10, I am 5'10, that's not even me being three foot two? You'll never believe this - she's my height. It's a shame that I can't say six, cuz It's true, Paige already loves me, so it doesn't even get shorter, and I'd be fine! How does that know why I'd get shorter. I may have some problem I live every second in fear. Oh my gosh! There's a dead dog! say, I was too busy being afraid. we can afford jetpack! I want the Speje- I can't. Spe-jetpack don't worry chat I'm so All right we got some serious decision making now. where we need it to be. Problem. Titan's eclipsed. How low. Then it's going to be about twenty-three hundred, so that's twenty-eight, still need something like six thousand, right? God I don't is not lower. But we have gotten fairly lucky. Back Uh, yeah cash register is a great drop, register. I will complain about lack of small don't want this run to die to a Sandworm. Dude Oh what the fuck did I just do? Oh, I brain lagged. I brain lagged and I didn't there. Maybe 2x cash register? Maybe two a... in a decent way. Spending seven hundred just to Doesn't matter I mean - we're going to get enough Haven't been using it because I'm a coward. damage this patch, so I'm a coward. I'll Oh that's nice. Weaker day? Hoo! Uh was that twenty-six into a hundred and nine? So eight-three? Three sixty-seven. The stare-down was intense? Yeah I don't know confirmation that he was pursuing me down like a deer in headlights. Oh, Mimic. So this nine. So we're going to stop and do some So what's Q10 going to be then? Only like Gross! Dude what are these rooms? Dude this Titan Yeah I'm up - that was so bad. So to answer new room types. Is he playing with enemies totally vanilla. Enemies show up later in the Ah... I didn't, I didn't realize... that sudden, I Coil-Head that early is pretty unlucky yeah. Second Well I already had enough for Q9 too I was sad and I'm tired. Need about eighteen hundred between five It's been a while since I had an eight hour stream. fuck it let's just do the days. How much loot It's comeback-able. Thousand a day five days in a row? Say not... That's crazy because like, I, careful, if I cared, but like, I, I did not jump content... shut up. So what was missing? Why couldn't I close so much RNG in the run that I just have to keep simple. With thirty loot collecting days in a Q10 bad luck. How much of each will definitely change and react to them properly. As a general rule, if get out before things get bad, you can finish or explore and where you just won't even waste your might think. Immediately upon entering main, there's a path that ended early. Two of these paths will fully - quickly. You can always do that. One of the is majority of the time not worth going into. The into the Labyrinth it's again - probably not worth you have time, and even then, only look for a way is how you get consistent good days. Maximizing Labyrinth, or Coil-Head spawns early, you don't push from about 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. to explore and you want a high chance of safety from Giants and always be bullshit, but then you rinse and repeat alive, and with a good average. I want nothing because even if you're thinking it doesn't look back in tears, about how you died to lightning Thought that landmine was a piece of loo- you fucking kidding fucking key, there's keys everywhere. But ever need more than two keys?&quot; [TTS] &quot;I am infected with am I so unlucky?&quot; [Spiff] &quot;Maybe you were acting like a child, and Yeah as you were guys. Damn, this will be the two hundred whatever day That's cool. I'm actually kind of cold. so good. I spent like half an hour shoveling snow. Are you shitting me? Ah. So, my neighbor - I got he's nice, but he's also really judgmental. Like took a bit too long to mow the lawn - they have snow frame one. Like the second the snow's hitting - is out shoveling. And then he shovels our walk, but it makes me feel like shit every time. Cuz it's when it stops snowing! Don't have to shovel all my like - cuz I don't want to bring it up to him - cuz some point it's going to snow, and I'm going shoveling his walk over and over, just to teach yesterday, but I'm just going to say last night in the morning. Ten a.m. Our walk is shoveled. he's certainly not being mean he's shoveling my about it at some point. We don't really see each outside much, these days, but I know he's making couple is nic,e but they don't shovel their walk seconds. He's a good person don't overthink it? sometimes we'd catch him just like standing in Like we're bringing the value of his property few days, he's nice! I just, I think he's nice thing. I mean in a way a lot of kindness is like - their car - it's a weird example but, you know - it's good doing it. That doesn't make it selfish. Now start reminding that person how I carried them - carried only made a few comments ever. I don't know. It's uh, with. Very, very challenging. I went to university... pan dude. See I got to practice my, my car- understanding get back, on Mansions. Never seen a Mansion on Ass? Today. Kind of weird. It's like the game hears they're just like: he loves Mansions? Have ten more! big rooms, so it's hard to tell what's in them. Uh, generally play the first quotas - and I don't less recognizable, so it's harder to be like yes, I because, I've been here before. Oh cookie pan really is ass. Dude. I'm sure I'll find This is this is quite the seed. Yeah, and you still stand in the doorway, it like can't hit you, but it won't stop shooting at thinking right there! It should turn off lamps anymore. Oh that's going to hurt the average. more? Oh I had the nicest awakening, so normally beside me, and I wake up. And and she's like a Except waking me up to feed her. This morning at waking me up, so I woke up to her like cheek. And I woke up when she meowed. Like hey, hey! Hey it's got up and fed her. No Loaf, dude Loaf really Oh my God! I missed you Titan. It's been too long. Just a casual seven item room. No moderately scuffed. Moderately scuffed What do I even do in this situation? Like kidding me dude? Cuz like, the whole pathing leave. All right I've never fought one of You want to go bruh? How dead is he? Is he dead? They can revive. You did it, he's he's going to revive? They can't get Okay. Oh my God bro. Don't mind me dude I'm Think I just heard another door open, in the than it had any business being. I play with a the clothes of your friends? I feel like the entity would be the most Canadian? Lootbug? Or Nutcracker is American because gun? I wouldn't but like we're limited to four rounds per five like shotguns, and, yeah like I said low caliber well. I do have like, my gun safety, so I could get like, been in the family. I'll get from my dad. It a gun, that I own, I have an airsoft pisto, that it's technically home defense, it wouldn't really Like once you've put an air canister in, it has it out right now it would like: bffff. So... I mean I could that's still not that - it would hurt, if it was, if yourself in the foot for content? I could go grab would press the trigger, and then I'd have to have like, actual airsoft fights with some so my friends started buying biodegradable they disintegrate after a while. But some were my friends guns. That's the problem with bio-BBs, Like... that was such a mistake. Okay good. Like just, Hey brother. Okay now how should I do this? Good work. Good work, good keeping a cool head, and just surviving the Coil-Heads. Holy shit man! At 10 a.m., uh, whatever Okay. Let's see if we can't get a couple hates the cube in this game because it isn't What does that even mean? I mean it's like - is a nerd who wants to flex his cube skills. But to flex my cube skills as well.&quot; [TTS] &quot;As opposed to skills?&quot; [Spiff] &quot;Yeah. I am also a nerd. Big news! Why- Yellow and white center are supposed to be - ohh, that entirely solved cube with only one corner twisted. second! Well I kind of had to look in there.&quot; [TTS] &quot;Imagine a solved cube. White is on top, yellow is on the bottom. They're opposite from each both yellow and white. The colors never touch exist.&quot; [Spiff] &quot;I get it. Okay well, what if white and if this is just a cube with a different set of I been so bad with the spreadsheet? How much about - it's the cube! The cube is why I haven't to know. Day two: four thirty-seven. And how much did I sell - five eighty-seven. got to get those numbers up! Up up up up up! Got to make it up it doesn't have that many weather options. A Whoopie-Cushion? And a V-type? Don't of unfortunate. Six six six! Hey chat, the Game Theory was Game Theory 666th video. This could mean Okay. All right. Yes. If I'm playing alone and Spimic, yes. Canonically. Yeah, two paintings is of big items. Pretty good like, those day two! Those last two days have been pretty Dude I thought that was three like: nice! Nah - three keys, take it or leave moon?&quot; [Spiff] &quot;Uh... spawn in on Titan. A whole bunch immediately off the main entrance. They Painting blocking my view. No that would be off Titan!&quot; [TTS] &quot;Love the vid today also, and so did I'm happy to put out the occasional Now obviously we had two quotas on Assurance eleven thousand total? I mean we're, we're on good, we're above that, we'll, we'll be, be pretty happy but exit's to the left - inside the fire exit's to a K on the next gamba? Whoa now, don't get ahead Bottles? Is this Ass? Am I right chat? Not even a turret. Nope. Don't feel like it. I don't got the if no Giant that's what I told myself. Can we another planet? Because I would have gone we should just have Ass days if eclipsed. at doing that. Let's get rid of this, some of Chat I don't hate art they're the same painting! It's a Hmm. How badly do I want to turn out the lights, 20% chance to not just fucking kill you instantly you put the mask on anytime after Q5 it huge! How did I not know about this sooner? Fifty-two wedding ring? Divorce incoming. Clearly this isn't expensive things? Yeah does anybody know what games. I knew somebody was going to say furry. Holy Holy. We've found just the rest of the day. getting over the three eighty average right away here. Could now collected... eight thousand loot, so we can start thinking now. For the rest of the run. You need about 4K between the next nine days. What's four thousand divided day. When's the last time you cleaned up on your ship? not a reflection of my house, because my ship only Loaf. Of course that's what all of you think of. It do eclipsed with jetpack, I'm such a baby. Ah! It's moment? Thank God something of substance holy. Nope! Land mine in the smoke? Nope! So chat? Ninety pounds? That's almost a dollar going to, we're going to jetpack on Practice. Yeah. I don't get how to... avoid Holy shit I thought I stepped Oh. Ah get fucked idiot! I made you step on a leaking? What the fuck? So... why did my jetpack when I wasn't using it? Sometimes the energy can while on? That's a cool bug. That Ghost Girl's somebody exhales? Do your friends sound like the Oh my God. Really? Oh thank you. It's cause all the loots K now we can really do the math, cuz it can start varying quite a bit. Was like I've that we don't want to feel like I've made a we only have one point eight thousand on the ship left. Which quotas. No way there's a ring outside? Oh! Oh my so based on this - that's low. I think that's low. Just based on that we need a lot of fucking Oh! Wait what? I thought it was facing Nice. Okay! Good day, good luck! We like that! Eight fifty-seven day, is a dub. Wow! I might not get that Okay, another good day. Am I nervous? Nah, this Brother! Fuck off! Just don't Ah. I'd rather take my luck with the Thumper. Hah hah, fuck you bitch! At least they're This is PB never been to quota 10 before. Time to you - put on the mask? And if so what happens? Jeez Dude is big slumbering, just I still have a mask, I'll put it on, sure. forty-five, fifty, or forty-two. Ten, forty-five, fifty or forty-two. I don't have my toothpastes. So I sold two three seven six. Let's see how Exactly three thousand so I need two thousand over... three All right. I'm thinking we go to - close fire exit right? I'm thinking we money. I'm going to wait for the ladder, I That was a respectable day of Dine chat. a moment there where um, I was concerned five eighty holy fuck, you kidding me? Jesus lord Titan? That's true I could jetpack Dine. Uh Lot of stairs. Hey, dude! So this is how it ends. I wanted to get out, cuz I wanted to switch Then I got lost because all the assets are stairs. I want to know though. Eh Dine was eclipsed in the last day. Pretty wild chat! Let's go again. Since starting on my solo Lethal Company hadn't pulled off: The Run. I decided I would from consuming most days to consuming every I streamed for eight and a half hours. And Dude where - where did that come from? I can't believe I got turned around. for extra scrap for world record on Q10 [TTS] &quot;This is the run and if not this one [TTS] &quot;I feel like Titan has been really bad to me with the loot rooms but because I feel like I have to go so crazy?&quot; [Spiff] &quot;Uh I'll answer that in a couple minutes. I did go too deep. I did. Really? A mine? I wasn't even - oh, I got such a good room I was going to greed What happened? I got hit by lightning. It's a storm, and that happens. Uh, you come a little further please. Ah. Ooh boy. Okay I need a way to wrap him. There's just nothing. There's just nothing Jester! When I ended stream I raided TheShortSheriff, who was also doing Q10 solo runs, and watched him just miss finishing a to push it, getting himself killed.&quot; [TheShortSheriff] &quot;Oh no. No!&quot; [Spiff] had been grinding, and we watched him fail think I go back in. Like, if there's any chance a... being a gamer. No, I thought he walked away!&quot; [Spiff] &quot;Meanwhile the same exact thing [Distortion2] &quot;I missed the ledge. I missed the ledge!&quot; [Spiff] &quot;In the span runs almost three hours in, because they were tight was the wrong mindset, because things went wrong on and couldn't finish. The next day I went into runs way too low. I would settle for nothing under a five hundred The run will be good cuz I have lip chap now. a screw over there, so that puts us at at least one-handed item but a lamp is two? That is kind to hold the lamp and the other to shield your made of solid gold. What's the highest quota you've- 10. I've died to a lot of like, turret bs. Like safer, but it's Q1, and they just line up. We had one spot, just a lot of like - you didn't have set up that way. Not even a turret. Not even nothing. Oh yeah! Pretty good fire exit spawn. now. Okay! I thought this was just going to be be a big fat something day! Seven on the day would be monies. Appreciate it but I wasn't looking shall receive bottles, on Ass. Yeah beehive Q1 run starting like: you drop on March, get load inside, get the bees - good first day! I'm to petition for Q10 to be exempted from bees make Q10 reset heavy in the beginning? I have because I think just get a couple bees and that would make it less re- well more, more short reset like ten times, until you have a half Q2. Oh, fuck. Hey fire exit. Oh, okay. Well, actually kind grab the apparatus yet. So that way was fire exit... this way has a oh! Money I'm Mr. Krabs. I like money. No I love lamp! Mansions have been kind of How'd you spawn? I was specifically trying to... a stupid word. Don't, don't shorten manipulate. I Yeah. It's not: she spawns directly behind you. She if I shower the Ghost Girl doesn't come after me? stream? I need to learn how to make Canadian food, This is important. Really? Yeah, yeah I can do that! be fast! It's saving lives chat. This is Dude lamp strikes again, holy. We survived a day of lightning. Four thirty What is this going to be? Pretty high, I like opening that door and it's placed land mine. Like: hey! Hey. Here Nice teeth. Pretty low odds all right that's better than I Time to use our new anti-getting-fucked-by-lightning-plan. Avoid that square! Little jump scared the fuck out of the game. Why is this Let's dance I guess! Just kidding I don't really All right well that's good to know. Having rubber damage? Yeah I wouldn't mind something that made for lightning would be cool. Even if it took up one Step one: clear the room for turrets. Step two: profit. Get that girl an inhaler? Also have a lot of robits! Whoa now pumpkin! I'm feeling, feeling fire exit-y. Never trust your instincts chat, they No. I am the mascot of my channel. Pepe is a not mascot but like, I don't know. Pepe's a bro is the mascot of the channel and Loaf is the exactly what I said. Oh! Oh. An empty apparatus awesome! Did you know that it's actually using it in this game? And irl? You know what Bruh. Average has only gone up! We're going back Ass's. Nah, just going to Do not - remind me chat! Do not go through traffic, and booze - what a terrible combination. Ass world. Separate - but, it has both. Where'd you think all the the signs, and then we get their leftover booze, and my own head a lot, to avoid getting nervous, Well we could test now to see think it does. We can either... oh Titan doesn't? Let's find out. Hey that adds adds thirty percent! All right we have enough. Whoa. disappointed! Now we have to go to stormy you mean the run's not dead yet? nervousness... by just saying stuff like that. If It's lot of Bracken access. Turns out, this room doesn't That's a survived stormy Titan! eclipsed next? I'm not staying, if it's eclipsed. Fuck! Okay I, I, I, I, we're going day yes. You're right. I'm going I had to know where they are! I wasn't I love risking my life for a hundred and sixty-three. All five hundred! We got to keep up, we got to, we got Only four hundred and sixty-five left! To make average chat. Well thanks champ! Been a while since you paid off. we go again. Nope, super shit it is! Lethal a weak, pathetic, under average day. We should be point. Shut up. No way! A viewbot ad! Two viewbot like, you know, to under ten people? You get a lot a hundred dollars on nothing! This run feels very luck I don't know what you're talking about. So uh, nine... bit up, bit above average or something? Nine eighty-four is party game? Party game. In my fun game with be competitive at all and so has a just utter I don't even know what you're talking about. Does runs? No! I can't believe you'd even suggest that. You is no procedurally - wow! Nothing is procedurally point where - what am I even saying bro? Where see the seed you're like: oh. Yeah yeah yeah yeah There is no luck in this - ooh a hairbrush! There's actually. Hey, a love lamp! Dude. Oh. Okay. Dude what is this land mine seed? Holy! I... can't jump this! Don't trust that And now I go home! Bye-bye! Oh good! Just like it disables turrets, you're Let's see. Below average, rip. Shovels Okay that's uh... cool! Good to know, yeah. I'm uh... I'm getting to Hey! So worth the trip bro. So this path will plastic fish. And that's it to main! Like, there's maze that'll lead: to the fire exit! See the fire six seventy-one, above average! I haven't reached five hundred average a hundred and... sixty-seven. Wow! Kind of nailed it one thousand three. Your ship looks like when I was twelve, this many lamps? Crazy. Lamp addict. A fifth, go hard. I - that's, that's a good idea. I don't thing that I've said, that I, I think the game We do have a Bracken. Don't like seeing you get stuck champ. Fuckin' ew! Oh shit. I wouldn't have felt Hoo! Almost got arrested for the no - not Above average! Yeah I deserved that. How That's a dog on the stairs Okay so today was below average. Now watch out for mud - mud piles. An Ass Whoopie-Cushion? You shouldn't have. Mines? Nope, don't trust that room. I can't even find my Whoopie-Cushion. A many bottles? It's the drinking Good thing I closed the fucking door! I'm in your ship is bone chilling! It's not that That's seventy-nine, that's fuckin' good enough. Twelve thirty-three that five hundred average chat! Onwards to Q8. getting, I forget what the average is - that's All right let's get an average day. That's a of the way to average. Yeah I haven't gotten contribute nicely to my simple average. Good job diary: today was - ooh! Today was ooh! Today of sucks super mega balls, so I wasn't very Dear diary - well what the fuck? So Today I found a buddy. Nope. This rooms suck. I I actually think that might entire run. No, that eclipse that we did nervous, and focusing, but I still want to say Dear diary: there's this mother fuckin' pumpkin... I like duck. And a clown horn! Oh. Dude monkaS is fuckin' right! Yeah this Somebody's here early. We did have to sacrifice few of those. Average day? Average day! By four point-os! quotas left - we can get a pretty precise amount that I still need about fifteen hundred. Minimum. Minimum mi-mum-mum. Need five hundred every day? The point is to... emotionally the mindset is for. Sixteen fifty-two from the total here. Let What? That's - that's really low isn't oh, then never mind it's not that high at going to be like twenty-seven, so I need about four thousand nine hundred? Bottle capital baby! My pickles! Below average? It's going to be ship's a mess, sorry. It'll get somewhat cleaned next get lost on Ass? Just, just, if you Ass enough, you'll Titan? Ah it's stormy! So is Assurance. Okay Dine. That really is the only way out okay. So This is no better than... Titan Mansions. That was a four chat. Yeah prayge for an average day true, we do need All right main, time to pay up! Holy shit. Oh thanks air horn. Bad news chat I love lamp. Average day. We're at the last quota. have on board. Dude we still have this fucking that's an Ass yield sign. Like that's a Q1 Ass not a Q1 yield sign, cuz I sold everything from Q1. Oh my gosh! Okay so now twenty-one eighty-two. So I apparently still sold. Now, we're going to figure that out. Eight handle eight things at a time. Three three five. Sweet. Plus five thirty-one! more than we thought! We actually have twenty-two fifty-seven. Up find out. Twenty-six ninety-nine okay chat, somebody do the math on Of course, hey chat? Of fucking course. Yippee! Why the emptiest kitchen of good day! I really could just go Ass dude you're right. Let's go back to Titan. Don't need much! Math chat, we have to do the math. Two six nine nine? So that's fifty-five that I need. Oh, forty-four. That's it! Holy shit chat. It's not over, It's looking to be a real cool... three and a half over quota. Let's finish this shit off shall we? terrible last few days. The mindset chat. Five hundred a day! we could have asked for.&quot; [Game] &quot;You are true professionals.&quot; [Spiff] &quot;Thank you. I know. Been working on this for a little while! Up! Up! There you go. Damn engines off the ship. Think this duck is the even need the Whoopie-Cushion holy shit Let's go dude! That's it. That's it, that's going to put me Up, let's go up! Up up up! It's been um... it's been those Q10 - Q9 runs die yesterday, made me realize There we go chat. Three twenty-seven forty-seven. That's time. Hold on, there's I like that song. Hold on hold on is Disc still this. He's on a - he's on Q9! Oh BarneyGoosed is on a will, I think I will take my spot as the second Titan's stormy I don't give a fuck let's do it! Oh! Wait. Wait that doesn't count. This is really easy. We got a plushy pajama man? The table. On the candle. Oh my goodness, this game of your fucking mind bro!&quot; [TTS] &quot;Put the mask on now I got to find a mask and uh, escape. Oh well, Oh, we got the whole like, cool i- okay I don't Fuckin'. Alright we kind of have to plan our- Oh shit! Ah! Ah! Ah! No! No! I got to get a mask, and we oh! Don't take fall damage, that would be - and a way out! All right, let's, let's finish Let's jump off. You didn't see my splat? Stupid I didn't like told me to left click, there you fuckin' go. Almost run and we all started grinding, I was the second trying to get a faster time, but I think I started I can't see either though! This was a mistake! Oh no! The next day though, three runners this video, new records have been set and more Thwael, ShortSheriff, Distortion, The Haboo, ChlorophyteKnight and BarneyGoosed who suffered alongside me. I can imagine this category is going to get it's the wildest speedrun you can do of Lethal