I want to speak to you right now about what to do almost every single day asking for deliverance. I a group of Christians that believe that people just emotional. They make things up. They see YouTubers who kind of cater to them, and they Christians can be in need of deliverance. And so to try to debunk the critics. I have a whole that in most of my books but I just will highlight born again believer and be tormented by demons. became a Christian you open yourself up to demons, whether out of ignorance, out of deception you people who have demons either have them because gave to demons through unrepentant, habitual demon. The same way as not every time you open you keep the doors open, you keep the windows you do not want to see in your house. That's do not give room to the devil. So those people who then why did Paul tell us not to give room, that some people just blame demon for the issue thing that we have in the world today, the common everything. 100%. But people are tormented, people in their mind. Some people are harassed and don't see where Jesus told His disciples to go they solve the issue of demonization. Jesus cast out demons. That means that when somebody get healed. Jesus told us to pray for healing. get delivered from demons. Now, Satan is no Satan doesn't really own anyone or anything. he's a destroyer. And so when a person becomes a don't automatically leave. A lot of times they read the gospels and Jesus came into a place or a So when a Christian accepts Jesus, when a person a lot of times those demons begin to even either raising hell in this person's life. Or they go a place where there is ministry of deliverance preached, and the lies are beginning to fall off life that have been happening are not a result of be demonic. And this person starts to do what I'm freedom. So that's all I'm going to say for right well you know God and the devil cannot be in Testament when the Ark of God came in and there which a pretty lame illustration because in that in one place, and the Philistine god didn't thing as being evicted. And then it was God's Ark temple. It wasn't even God's temple. So that is illustrations that people try to stick this idea approach. But Jesus cleansed the temples, remove, Jesus also told you know Judas that and disciples And so Judas was part of Jesus's team. And to come into their heart and plant things into references. In the nutshell, there is not one somehow as a Christian who confess Jesus as their And Jesus cannot set you free because that's is not in the Bible. That line of reasoning The same line of reasoning if that is true, Christian you cannot have a flesh, if you're sin. But we know pastors who even lived in you cannot have unforgiveness because the Holy And then we can even go as far as to say, be sick because Jesus and sickness don't live where it could get pretty fishy? And so my simple savior. Every sick person qualifies to receive can receive freedom from Jesus. So now let's just watching, you're listening, listening, rewatching I got it. Nobody needs to convince me that aware. I am experiencing. I'm a living witness. and I'm going to just highlight seven steps that freedom in your life. First thing is receive receive the Lordship of Jesus Christ. Drop put that in the comments right now. Receive the Acknowledge Jesus as your Lord and savior over I didn't say demons are impossible. I said they're do they automatically leave? Of course not. Think who are illegal. Do they leave? No, they stay. mean it leaves. That's why every reference to the you see this word cast out, cast out, cast out, leave on their own. Please get it through your pray to prayer and they're just going to be gone, If you ever dealt with tenants that didn't want evicted. So they need to be expelled. They need to spirits is they are not going to leave of their they now have no legal grounding. Now they have unless they're evicted. But now you have the &quot;If you declare with your mouth, &quot;Jesus is Lord,&quot; the dead, you will be saved.&quot; Now Romans 10:9 and believe in your heart the demons will leave. and Philippians 2:9-11 says, every knee shall bow now you have the right, now you can start evicting thing is very important is you acknowledge the spare tire. Jesus is not your insurance from going Savior. Jesus is Lord. Jesus is God. Submit to some people don't want deliverance from demons. want to keep demons. They still want to entertain They just don't like what those demons cause. They what demons bring eventually. Please understand, those demons if you're not going to eventually the baits that they offer. And the best way to Christ which will mean you're going to have to have to part your ways with his lies, with the people who would come and they want deliverance, they don't want deliverance from demons. They want living their life running with demons. It's kind the torment the demons brought, but not the actual that they offer. Because demons, they use sin and so people love that but they just don't like the want to be free from the kingdom of darkness or you just want to be free from the torment that intact and connected to the pleasures of sin and watching and every person listening does not want you're watching, that's why you're listening, number one in the chat again. Receive the Lordship identify the enemy. So recognize-identify the what you are battling, okay. Not every struggle Seek the Holy Spirit's guidance for clarity. like torment, fear, addiction and some kind of an common calamities of life. There's also the things our life and bundle it under I have a demon. But you have walked in a way that pleases God, and on the outside, they are on the inside. And the difference. At first it's harder to discern the see that demons attack everyone on the outside use the example of a bite that I experienced. I my neighbor teacher. She was not a teacher, she She was guiding me in how to do homework and she and so the dog barked at everyone but the dog on his territory. So as long as I was outside me. But one time I decided to step on the dog's so I kind of wondered you know how his dog So I stuck my head inside. What I did not know is happened is the dog woke up because he heard the and I honestly if it wouldn't be for that teacher I would probably be dead because I would have been Shepherd dog. It was like it was trained to kill. this vicious animal and she actually stitched me stitches. So I learned a very important lesson you know you no longer get barked at, you enemy being on the outside, barking. You know he torments people. So drop this in the chat. On the enemy torments us. So you don't get delivered from the enemy on the inside. So the second step you receive Jesus as your Lord and Savior. Number the inside or the enemy on the outside? Sometimes a lot of pressure. There's, it's like a spiritual they just need to exercise their dominion. I have week about what to do, how to receive strength for on the outside. So deliverance is for the enemy outside. And we must differentiate. Now having the flesh we crucified, the demon we cast out. Drop out demons. Jesus didn't say that we cast out the crucify a demon. So a demon cannot be crucified. be crucified by your discipline. But they can but the flesh needs to be crucified. So sometimes or a demon? Well it's a very simple test. When Because Jesus said, if your hand causes you to physical hand. He's saying if the trigger points sin, you remove them. If you do, the problem is keeps handling, you're not dealing with the flesh. the eye causes you the sin pluck it out. Now that you have to crucify things and that's how the those trigger points, you remove those places, you get subsided or they get subdued. Now if you do keeps seeing though you remove the eye. That's don't crucify the spirit. You cast out the spirit. crucify, excuse me. You don't cast out the flesh, Identify the enemy, recognize the enemy, identify And some people just need to pray, Holy Spirit and in the sober mind. Your enemy the devil prows devour. Ephesians 6:12, it says, &quot;For we do not principalities and powers.&quot; Discern, is this a my part, lack of discipline on my part, lack improve your discipline and a lot of times problem flesh. But if the problem persists or at times with the flesh, you're dealing with a spirit. So that you have a demon and that is you have to Number three is repent. Confess sins. Sin gives those doors. Drop this in the chat. Sin gives the doors. Confess and turn away from any sin that brings freedom and it restores your intimacy with He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins,&quot; unrighteousness.&quot; So sins contaminate. Sins make and sins, they make us vulnerable to the intrusion and we confess our sins, we take back our freedom, close the door to demons and we open the door to it closes heaven and it opens hell under your of your sin, you open heaven and you close hell Sometimes people ask, but which sins do I repent of, the ones that you are aware of. Don't go into done wrong. Just bring your life before the light and the truth of God is going to bring conviction. amen. If this is helpful for people drop number what to do if I have a demon. We said number one, is recognize, identify the enemy. Number three the windows of heaven but it closes the gates Now number four and this is huge, particularly to cult. Number four is renounce. Renounce, meaning contract with the enemy. What this means is you including ungodly covenants, generational curses break any connections made with the enemy, declare Galatians 3:13, it says, &quot;Christ redeemed a curse for us.&quot; And the Bible makes it clear in with unbelievers. What agreement is there between Corinthians deals with people not being yoked communion, what agreement? Meaning there should as Christians should, if we've allowed agreement some kind of an oath, some kind of a contract. and we're kind of reminded of that or that comes verbally any connections we have made or maybe just break that that generational curse in Jesus I have led people on numerous occasions who have Satan, and they became Christians, and I would who made inner vows to themselves. I will never, never forgive my dad or I'll never be like You know then they end up actually falling into inner vows. They would break spells. Sometimes know that somebody cast spells on them, and so like what Pastor Rickard from our church, he would when you confess your sins. So think about like Netflix. You have a Netflix subscription and you doesn't cancel the subscription. You actually subscription. So let's say you repented. Lord, you made conscious vows, oaths, especially some kind of an occultic environment where with demons. You have to unsubscribe. You have to ties, those vows and those oaths, so that now Number one, receive Jesus as your Lord and Savior. problem. Discern between a demon and the flesh. some things are on the inside. On the outside we demons. Number three, we said we repent, why? it closes the gates to hell. Repentance restores demons. Number four. We renounce. Now again this this is ties and this is specific connections also could involve renouncing generational curses. deals with get rid of objects that connect you to five, remove. Remove physical items that are tied Cleanse your home of any books, items or symbols items that reflect God's Word and presence. So books, you know paintings. I mean good things. But Book of Acts 19:19, it says, &quot;A number who have and burn them publicly.&quot; Deuteronomy 7:25-26, your house.&quot; So that tells us that as Christians, so think of this. Let's say that you have, let's subscription and then you cancel the subscription. the app. So that is how I relate to the demonic is kind of a no-brainer, very obvious things. anything with snakes, anything with death. I don't merchandise I wear, if it has things that are just things. So I wear you know &quot;Come Holy Spirit,&quot; you this doesn't mean everything has to be Christian glorify Jesus or they're just neutral. Same thing white magic, black magic. Like those things, they allow Quran and other heretic book, heresy that you know if you are a person who studies you know I try to have godly Christian books in my the objects that I have around my house. You know things, crystals and I don't burn sage to cleanse kind of angel cards and all kinds of things that Those things are demonic. I don't practice yoga. I if a kid comes to you and you give him a candy? my child to go like a dragon or to walk around why? Because I don't participate in those things. churches they try to redeem that into a harvest sees their heart. I am not here to make a my house, we don't participate in unfruitful the end of October. This is particularly true and witches and warlocks who used to be in that and and Easter combined for them, especially month believing Christian, I am not afraid of that. in some way you know praying more so that I can be in God's protection. I'm under the shadow of the to be an ostrich that buries my head in the sand somehow they don't have any power at all. They do. in those people's lives. I'm not going to be in in ignorance, so I don't bring those items into put them in front of my house as a decoration, life and I'll put my flag, my country's flag. going to see in my house, and when Christmas decoration, but other than that nothing, nothing Because and it's not legalism. It's just because I my life to realities that are real. These things don't live with phobia of them. No. Demons are we got to live holy. We got to be separate from up like the devil. Come on, you can't be speaking on Halloween. Or dress up, walk around like a Jack you know blood and everywhere you know. You have my five cents. Remove things that are physical kinds of skulls, pentagons or any kind of satanic business carrying dream catchers in your car. You should have no demonic kinds of charms at your things are not helping you to get married. They're put your faith in that, and some of you maybe are believe that they have power. I just like the way healing. Just don't, don't get those crystals. Get away from them. Let people who dedicated those those purposes. You, stay away from them. Those books or witchcraft books. I don't think you reading those things. So number one, if you have Number two, recognize is this demonic or is this Confess your sins because confession closes the It restores your intimacy with God but it closes contracts or covenants. Number five. Remove, get Occultism objects, witchcraft objects, books of white spells, black spells, magic crystals, dream and then let's go to I think it's now number six. number five. And now number six is resist, and Confront demons and command them to leave. Stand out demons and resist their influence. Command of Jesus to resist any further attacks. Luke to trample upon snakes and scorpions and to it says that &quot;And these signs will accompany those drive out demons.&quot; So and this is done verbally. commands demons out of you. There is really no you can command those demons out of yourself as There's nothing in the Bible that opposes that command those demons to leave you, to get out of it out. And because you know those spirits and And so some people start manifesting, some people some people start yawning, some people start The point is for the demons to leave, and when you to obey. And then the seventh thing and this recruit help. Seek the support of other believers Deliverance often requires the support of mature the church where deliverance ministry is practiced of dealing with demons in the New Testament, there demon within somebody else. So even the command to be cast out, they are to be confronted. So clear that in My name they will cast out, meaning Jesus called His disciples, give them power over again similar portion of the Scripture. He gave Luke 10:17 you know through 19, disciples said They didn't say demons are subject to God but to demons out. Matthew 12:28, Jesus says if I cast disappear because He showed up. He actually cast So they don't leave when Jesus came. They didn't them out, when He expelled them, when He evicted same thing. Jesus appointed 12. He send them to cast out demons. Drop this in the chat. demons decision. They don't leave even if you renounce they still like to stay. They're illegal. They no until they're cast out. You will keep coming demons out, to cast out, I command you. You know and Paul turned around and said, I command you in demon out. The demon didn't leave because the demon out. The Bible says, Jesus preached in the out. So you can confront them, tell them to leave, to go to somebody who believes in deliverance and those demons out? Yeah, sometimes you will go go to a person that believes in this. Now some if you come up to them and they say no, you don't you're serving in their church. So don't go to a the church and I'm not saying that you should not don't go to the pastor who does not believe in in tongues. There are pastors who don't believe in delivered, you just go to somebody who believes of Jesus, and who are not discriminative well I'm not going to pray for you. Why? Because you can't have a demon. Or you know I'm not a Christian if you have a demon. Well help me, reason people find excuses, they just find excuse Bible is clear, we've got to command demons out. command them out. But typically, generally this regard. And you see Matthew chapter 8 verse, they brought to Him many who were demon possessed. Jesus. So people who propagate this teaching that the demons are gone. Why did this not happen? He leave. Why did He have to cast them out? Because need to be evicted. They need to be cast out. the finger of God.&quot; So Jesus again says, hey, I They don't leave because the person is within my leave because they needed to be cast out. Demons not want to leave okay. So that's why they need to say, hey demon, could you please leave? I don't you got to be militant and you got to command them commanding demons off of a person. And it's pretty of believe in deliverance but not fully sure way they pray for deliverance, you know I command can't do that because demons on the outside, you okay. You just resist them and then they flee. Demons on the outside, well I command them off of resist them. Person that is being harassed with resist the devil and he will flee. The devil the inside. He doesn't leave on his own. He needs it brought some clarity and let's review quickly. first book that I released actually deals with pretty much just did a whole chapter. It's called free.&quot; And right after that I released a second move from deliverance to dominion. But just How to overcome snakes. This deals with how to Back&quot; deals with how to resist spiritual forces to repent, confront demons also on the inside and houses for demons. So if you haven't had a chance you, just educate yourself, break down some of that's just not biblical. And you can do that by it on my website for free of charge. Or getting first three books. The rest of them I have an a is that I have a course of deliverance prayers So many testimonies came out of this course. It's the most engaged course that I have. I have about There's no strings attached to that. You just go prayer, I give you time to repeat those prayers deliverance as well. So I hope you take advantage is to be a blessing to you. My goal is that you that you experience deliverance that Jesus has He came to set you free. He came to forgive you of die in your place so that you will become a you. He will trick you. He will pretend that he then with the other hand he will take what your get away from his kingdom. Receive Jesus as the issues you're facing might be more spiritual like we said. Then repent of things that you know the gates to hell and it opens the heaven's doors. with a devil, especially with witchcraft. And then into your life like charms, dream catchers. Christian. And then you got to resist. You got I hope you got through this teaching one common leave of their own will. They have to be evicted. and you're like, man but I still need a little bit There's many churches that have deliverance you or if you're in the place where, hey, I don't travel anywhere. Go to vladschool.com and take my It's about an hour though so just kind of prepare I have had a lot of people share that demons just And just invite the Holy Spirit and let me lead spirits to come out. And they have to obey the be free. So it's vladschool.com and search for a free. That's the amazing part, and so again, me want you to be free and bring freedom to others, one in the chat. Now I want to invite you, if the teaching, the resources that we offer. At single month in different parts of the world every that comes to our ministry to help with practical translating my books in Farsi and Arabic so that churches in Middle East. We also have helped to in persecuted areas. I have a burden and heart for to, which is the reason that all of my books United States, they don't download books for free. in European countries and United States. But they Amazon doesn't reach them or shipping is more they they're able to download them and we're able of your partnership and because of your giving. maybe you heard me preach, you read maybe one ministry and if the Lord moves upon your heart to just know, this is going to a good soil where Russian, Vietnamese, books, e-courses and we well as we help people with humanitarian aid. very small budget but we still use that budget so air conditioning for orphanage home in Zambia, orphans that we focus on, and so or providing who escape war, lost their parents in Ukraine. building a home for a family that completely lost different parts. And you can read about that on month we give you updates of what we do. So of you who have been a partner, I pray for you, world. Now I do want to take a moment right now torments. I want to ask you that Jesus will come watching, let's take a moment and pray. Jesus, I Come into that room. Come into that I thank You that Your Word says whom I thank You that You love every one of us so Wash us with Your precious blood. We confess our we renounce any contracts, any vows, any deals of any objects in our possession, in our homes connections to our past, in Jesus name. And right that is tormenting the life of a person who is or relistening. In the name of Jesus, I take your mind, that is tormenting your sleep, that is right now to come out of that person. Come out Jesus Christ. You spirit of heaviness, you spirit you spirit of witchcraft. In Jesus name, come out in Jesus mighty name. you spirit of in Jesus name I command that Leviathan, come out in Jesus name. I command that Lilith to come out right now. Pack your bags, get all your groupy right now. Fire of the Holy Ghost, the name leave in Jesus name. Come out through their name. Out in the name of Jesus. Be free right breath and just breathe it out. Just breathe it in Jesus mighty name. You have no more legal right the fire of the Holy Spirit is against you. You to the pit right now, in Jesus mighty name. Be Lord. Just drop this in the chat, say I receive in receive that freedom, just breathe that out. the Lord is bringing freedom into this live where you are watching right now in Jesus mighty