- Hey, it's me Destin. Welcome back to Smarter Every Day. There's a lot of stuff that goes into making this YouTube channel and some of it's more and there's a lot of that you don't see. This is one of those types of things. I wanted to learn some stuff and he happens to be a His name is Linus Sebastian So the thing you might not is I have a problem and it's because of this thing right here. So as you know this is the This is the workhorse of on the channel. But the problem is you on this camera. You have volatile memory on the camera. Think of it like RAM on your computer so if you shoot something of RAM that can save on this local camera and if you ever lose power, you're done. There's non-volatile memory on top and this persists if So this is 512 gigabytes of memory but the problem is after every shoot I have to do something with this, so I have a problem. Let me show you what I did So about, I don't know, a year ago, no, six months ago I sent Come on, come on over here. About six months ago I sent this tweet out to a guy named Linus Sebastian. He does this thing where he puts, I don't know, servers in people's houses So Linus, I need your help, buddy. This is pretty serious. - I'm here. All right, yeah this is really serious. This is bad. - First let me show you my hard drives. Can I show you this? - Yeah, okay. hard drives and show it to you. - I don't know if I can handle this. (Sebastian laughing) - I'm sure you've seen people - No, I think this is even - Okay, so this is not Do you want me to just stick with this? - No, I wanna see, bring on the carnage. - Okay, let me go get the old stuff. - So let's start doing some 434 gig, so we're at two That's a one terabyte. Three and a half. - So this is the old stuff. I call this the deep vault. - Five and a half. This is an eight terabyte drive. - Yeah, it is. literally ducked taped - That's how I roll, man. It's pretty serious. And so, I literally go to the spreadsheet, look at this. So I have an entire spreadsheet. - Go have a look at this. - So what I do is I just come in here, I Control + F and I'll say, like, Mars rover, and so if I go to hard drive A27, so go find A27. (Sebastian laughing) This is how it works, man. - [Sebastian] Oh, God. - [Destin] So A26. 21, okay so somebody's moved A27. (Sebastian laughing) - [Sebastian] So we're finding a flaw in the system already here. - We're hosed, we're looking for A27. So A27 is not where it's supposed to be. So you see my problem, right. So these aren't even indexed yet. your problem. - [Destin] These are-- - [Sebastian] (screaming) - [Destin] Yeah, I did. But it was on carpet so we're good. So it was my understanding you shipped a 45 Drive server here. - Yeah. install it and it's gonna - It might not be enough. - Seriously? - Have you added up the capacity of this? - I have not, no. - 'Cause I'm at like 25 - Yeah. you a 160 terabytes server. So here's the thing, you could make the argument really doesn't make a ton of sense because we could just from a YouTube upload, splice it into our new back to it and bippity boppity, off to the races. Now, with Destin, his case was a really because he actually of being able to go back and grab it without making any because this kind of high speed footage the data rates are so of runtime for what could be a very, very short clip wouldn't make sense to upload in the YouTube video at all. So he's gotta pick and choose his battles. So he's throwing out a ton of frames whenever he's showing you, whether it's a hummingbird's he's throwing out a ton of that you guys watch, except for the small segments So everything else here could be necessary if you ever wanted to go in more detail. So we gotta get this server rolled out. - You're genuinely worried, aren't you? - Yeah. - My tweet said you would - Wait, your tweet-- - Help me Linus that you're my only hope. says I'll fix the problem so now it's my liability if it doesn't, is that right? So you put words in my mouth. - You never actually replied to this. - No, I didn't. - You don't even care. You don't even watch Smarter Every Day. Let's just fix my problem, I don't care. - [Sebastian] All right, So Destin was-- - [Destin] Yeah, we installed it. - [Sebastian] Yeah. - [Destin] Any more light always is good. The nice yellow light. - Oh God, he just tripped over the drives. It was only like 20 terabytes or whatever. - So this is great. We actually had this It must've been like-- - [Destin] It's a while back. - Two months ago or something like that. It took me a long time to get down here. I'm sorry, because clearly the problem is, I would've gotten on the next plane-- - [Sebastian] It's a big deal, dude. this bad. - Now, have you installed - [Destin] No, I haven't. - And that's why this drill is here. - [Destin] Yeah, we're - Undo them out, got it. (machine drilling) - [Destin] Cool. - Look at that. (cover banging) (Destin laughing) - [Destin] Yeah. - I love this video so far. - [Destin] Are you being sarcastic? - The shenanigans are real. No, I love it. This is great. So Seagate actually instead of 10 terabyte drives, which is what I thought they had sent you. - Okay. - So that's another 30 - You just rip them open like that? - This is good. Yeah, yeah. You just kind of shuck them. - Like corn? - Yeah. Yeah, yeah, basically. - I think you think I'm joking but I actually don't know all this stuff. - So this is just a friction - It's a spring? - [Sebastian] But give than you're comfortable with. There you go. - That's it? - So this is easy. - This is easy. So the way that RAID works and it's also writing what So if I had, let's focus on these I'm running this in, let's say, a RAID 5. - Okay. - That means that for every and this is a of it being easier to understand, I'm writing a parity bit that is, think of it as kind of like where this parity bit is on the other side of the equal sign of these three. - Got it. - So if I were to lose any I can rebuild the other one. - By resolving the equation. - It's a way of rebuilding - [Destin] Right. - But we are not running parity in a conventional sense here. So we're using a software called Unraid that rather than striping the parity bits so that they exist across multiple drives it actually uses an entire single drive, or two drives if you prefer to be able to lose two drives to write So that comes with some The disadvantage is that it's meant mostly for archival storage. It's not as fast to write to. - Okay. - But the advantage is that in the event that you set it up with and you lose three drives, let's say your house floods or something and it floods up to here, all this data is still good. - Okay. - Whereas if you had if you lose more than your threshold, all the data is gone. - I see. So let's say just for let's say they were 100 terabytes here, which there's more than that, but let's say there were of hard drive space, that's not how much server - Nope. - How much will I have? - You would have anywhere from 80 to 90, depending on what you prefer. - And so that other part is - That's right. - This is a big deal for me man, I mean. - No, it's great. You need it more than anyone of these to so far, I think. - Are you serious? - Yeah. - It feels like it. - This is a dire situation. - [Destin] This is another video for you but this is like a really significant, I'm not gonna say emotional, but there's a lot of A lot of my life has been protecting this and I've got some in like How long's it gonna take - [Sebastian] A long time. - [Destin] Really? - You've got a big, big data hoarder problem here. (Sebastian laughing) - [Destin] This isn't data hoarding. (Sebastian laughing) - There it is. (Sebastian shouting with excitement) - [Destin] Did it work? - Oh, yeah. We can do this later but I just wanted to make sure all the Three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, pal, perfect. - [Destin] Is it good? - And the SSDs are here too. - [Destin] Is it good enough to high five? Okay, just making sure. They're all formatting, wow. You can hear them all clicking. - [Sebastian] Yeah, they're going. - This is nothing. You do this all the time. You don't care about this at all. - [Sebastian] Oh no, I think it's cool. I think it's cool. I'm sharing your cool experience. (Destin laughing) - Okay, so once we set up our RAID here, even in the event that than two drives, because it's on RAID is the data on the drive So that's cool. And in addition to that, because we're using Ironwolf Pro drives they come with a five year warranty and they come with a - Thank you. I appreciate it. - Oh, you're very welcome. This is Linus from Linus Tech Tips. They do great videos like This is a big deal. Thank you for that. - My pleasure. were 45 Drives and Seagate. - And Unraid. - And Unraid. So thank you to you three really appreciate it. Go subscribe to Linus. Linus does a bunch of, like everything, right? Everything from reviewing keyboards to like everything. - You do everything. the world's only commercial quantum computer manufacturing facility. - Really? - Yeah, we did that. - Go check his stuff out, it's amazing. I like your channel. - Thank you. - Yeah, I've watched your Big thanks to Linus for This was a huge problem I had, this data storage issue. Thanks to Linus for working his contacts, not mine. You had 45 Drives who made Seagate who donated the hard drives and Unraid is running the I'm very thankful and I'm also interested in seeing how he does in the next video. I'm gonna do something I'm gonna pluck Linus gamer system, sandals and I'm gonna introduce him to this man. - I'm Luke Talley and at this time in 1969 I was a senior social - Luke Talley is an amazing individual and I want to just on all the new tech with out how to make memory for computers. I want to put those two together And it is fascinating. I hope this video that you just watched earned your subscription but more importantly, I hope you will stick around and subscribe and ring the bell so that Because Linus and Luke both teaching me really interesting things about one of the most important computers is a fascinating trip. We went to the US Space and Rocket Center. All that's in the next video if you're into that sort of thing. If not, that's no big deal. Anyway, I hope you enjoy this. I'm Destin, you're Have a good one. Thanks Linus, bye. Let me show you a trick. This is a trick I learned about computers. - Yeah. - So I have a pen and paper and sometimes I write things down. No, I remember the IP. (Sebastian laughing) This is a better way.