Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. I've been watching It's great, it was created by Pendleton Ward, visiting star systems and planets and here Us humans, in real life. I mean, we've managed to put people on the and even Titan, a moon of Saturn. Interplanetary travel is scary cool. it will happen, right? I mean, Voyager 1 is this year, or maybe in the next year or two. shows like Bravest Warriors are pretty much within our lifetimes. Right? Well, we're going to need a DONG for this one. Something you can Do Online Now Guys. The Hayden Planetarium's digital universe of our Milky Way. Now, there are about 81 our own Sun. The nearest is Proximus Centauri, Getting there? Piece of cake. Piece of difficult long distance. It's the distance that light And in just one second light can travel Earth...7 times. Now, a fast bullet can travel at about 1,500 m/s. m/s, relative to the Sun. Also relative to of 29,800 m/s - that's pretty fast. 2 Solar Probe, Impressive, right? Well, even at that speed, made object, crossing this little ol' gap 19,000 years. But technology in the future is bound to be are able to obtain. Even using what we know acceleration needed to reach near-lightspeed speeds. allows for things like wormholes which, in in space to another faster than light normally could. And who could forget the famous Alcubierre drive? of our universe, and proposes a way to deliver light can get there - not by moving the spacecraft, space itself. Things like wormholes and Alcubierre drives become a reality, how far away might that day be? when in time we should begin an interstellar too soon and before a ship launched today, it would be passed by astronauts who left a point in time when technology was advanced Andrew Kennedy calculated that given the is concerned, the soonest human civilization might ever 1,104 years from today, which isn't within optimistic because it assumes that we not we also solve problems like &quot;how to survive to avoid collisions with interstellar It also assumes that before we achieve the travel, all of human kind isn't wiped out sound unlikely, but we're not talking about of years from now. Let's put it this way. travel, it's estimated that within 5 to 50 million colonize our whole galaxy. That's a lot of time, though. In fact, statistically very likely that Earth will encounter a meteorite that happens we have the prevention abilities all of this information it's easy to see why that it was improbable that humans would ever It's quite depressing to think that scenes to only ever remain that - science fiction. Wait, how quickly is the camera moving in that clip? We're used to seeing science fiction lightyears across, which means that in this light, if not faster. I covered this briefly in my black hole video, at the speed of light, or near the speed of look like it usually did. First of all, your as if the universe was receding away from all of the light reaching you would be blueshifted seen this on Vsauce 2. It's the cosmic background the visible range. MIT Game Lab offers a free, downloadable game speed of light can be lowered all-the-way all of the visual effects I just discussed, if the speed of light was where it is, and So, I enlisted my friend Liam from World of simulation of what it might actually look light and then slow down, Whether or not you should believe that all will one day travel that quickly or reach to whether you want to be an optimist or a far is quite amazing considering how weak, the vacuum of space. Bad Astronomer and SciShow have great videos the brilliant team at Bravest Warriors, I'm a Vsauce suit, no, no, no, I'll do it naked. muscles? The moment I'm exposed to the vacuum of space the body is a very nicely contained system. be the first to go. The air in my lungs and soft tissues would rapidly lose water. swell. As water was pulled to the surface decrease in its pressure would cool my mouth to about twice its normal size as gasses in away, cooling the surface of my skin. burst, spilling blood into my eyes which, would be rapidly vaporizing on the surface, Within about 15 seconds I would go unconscious as far as I'm concerned, that would be the or so I would still, technically, be alive, any of it. My dead body would remain, internally, vacuum of space there isn't much matter to I would really only lose heat through radiation, hours for me to cool down to the temperature but a dried-up piece of slightly bloated and If I was exposed to the Sun's full-on radiation, I would be a grossly sunburnt piece of jerky. In case that makes you hungry, let me give human meat, in outer space, would eventually And given what would be left of me that would calories. Maybe humans are the only intelligent life life could have arisen on other planets, Enrico Fermi calculated that given the number at least some of them must have been habitable millions and millions of years before life So, if interstellar travel, traveling between is possible for intelligent life to do, why maybe we have been visited. Maybe they're them. Or maybe we haven't been discovered. not worth visiting... So, what are you waiting for? Live your life to hang out with you worth it. And as always, thanks for watching.