Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. Skeletons are scary and Teenagers. Their attitude, the way they dress and it music? Pff, kids these days. But what are kids these days? What's with all the concern and what's a generation? Why do we think that coevals, groups of much alike? The sheer number of articles daily comparing then and now, We can't seem to get enough about kids awesome it was to be a kid back in the Generational labels make human history and messy. They also have a delightfully those using them. George Orwell put it well. more intelligent than the one that went after it.&quot; Juvenoia. Sociologist David Finkelhor fear about the things that influence concerned disappointment that because of music or those pesky horseless kids like it used to be. that long. After all, &quot;honor thy [your] father and thy [your] mother&quot; was an ancient commandant for a reason. In the 4th century BC, Aristotle excess and vehemence, they think they 1627 admonishing the 'now,' compared to Romain Rolland complained that quote, &quot;passionately in love with pleasure people and the direction society is has always been seen with some brief history of juicy examples. In 1871, that may as well have been written today multitude of rapid and short notes, talk over a real sheet of paper.&quot; And the that at a modern family gathering, each individual has his head buried in nothing new under the Sun. Not even the third generation star. This constant sometimes sound like a broken record. insight into the minds of future leaders or how it acts as teens? Despite the proverbial 'kids these days' seem to be Drug use is down, exercising is up, math and writing proficiency have people have decreased, hate comments number of 9th to 12th graders who have number of teens who fear attacks at school persists. But why? Well, it kinda makes sense. I mean, it's reasonable to assume that nature that cause adult members to prefer the anything different. After all, parents, by for the species. They made new members. So them to that point must have been good a problem. So worrying about the young may eyes and fingers and breathing air and Our brains don't accurately remember the rationally. That kind of thinking has a a social level, concerns for and about exaggerating is effective. cause if you can convince people that Also, our increasingly connected world people outside the family, the tribe, problems often involve people the is a more powerful fear. &quot;My kids have why should I worry?&quot; can be replaced today threats, so worry.&quot; Other reasons for much the world that's changed, it's you. were when you were young or do you experience that makes you more aware of remember the past abstractly. There just need for complete voracity when remember the general way we felt in the salient still, for the present. loss aversion and the endowment effect. gain. In one famous study, when asked how people gave prices that were given the mug first said they'd be This may play a role in how we value favorites - over what's new. There's even neuroscience backing up It's called the reminiscence bump. memories about yourself, increases during times of change. Incidentally, this is why you remember they really did, but rarely remember discussed before the ways in which this during particularly quick but adolescence and early adulthood, times of change. Many important things your identity. So, it's no surprise that recently, memories from this bump period are books and songs and movies and slang during this time correlates quite well with what you will, fondly. As we can see, juvenoia is natural. important. There are plenty of things we What's sometimes lost though, when generation is the fact that the nature The generation gap of antiquity, or of The more rapid speed of change may be of a new type of creature around the The word teenager wasn't even used as a 'Teenage' is a fantastic read on how human the teenager. You see, as factories young people could acquire something realized that products could be made for what their parents decided on. Also, highlighted for a new generation the view stuck with. It's fluid, personal, decided. Furthermore, calls for that is, making it the law that children go to school, further solidified the segmented of the world at large and into common In that environment they could culture shared just with themselves. Compulsory schooling also increased all the more power to hear stories written they could buy with their own money. Kids these days suddenly weren't just young were separate beings with their own juvenoia to change from the edible full-fledged panics we know and love question, though. Sure, you may say, that makes sense, but society could plainly see that in the culture wasn't as dumbed down as it is today. Things used to be made by the elites, for masses who demand sensational atavistic thought, like scholars, and, well, you know, me. the plural of anecdote isn't data. the opposite point. Mozart wrote poems is simple work made at all times in out in &quot;Everything Bad is Good for You,&quot; if participate as they choose, the tendency more cognitive demands, for smarter with the increasing density and days is impressive. To be fair, of course, there is no substance anymore, right? I mean, here's what one noted critic said of do not turn over the pages in search of thought, observation, grace of style, charm of children at play laughing and crying at the images before critic G. H. Lewes wrote about Dickens in Art to 1 percent is garbage to another. morals depicted on TV today, but there's including popular entertainment, viewers' part than ever before. threads in episodes of different TV surprising. Our brains crave stimulation. naturally selected form in the same way and organizes. Now that entertainment can and re-watched on demand and discussed ad nauseam online that natural desire can be sated by media. Johnson goes so far smarter. They've enabled entertainment to thought about over and over again. dramas people today have to keep functioning consumers of modern media and affect more of us than ever before. Dickens was only read by 0.25% of his innovative shows like 'The West Wing' or easily reach twenty times that Where are the Mozart's and Dostoyevsky's Well, they're probably here, but the something the judgments of contemporary Finally, when it comes to judging works let's not forget the quote from Unamuno I've discussed before. Cats and humans are curious and can at fart videos. So, what really ought we be treasuring? writers like Johnson have been able to movies and TV have been serving more and to find the same evidence for pop music. found that, unlike other forms of popular the 1950's, less complex in its Mathematically speaking, than they used to. Well, here's the thing. Pop music is just it's role, what its its listeners want from are much more specific than the wider Netflix caters. A pop song needs to and fit anticipation and pay off into a only so many ways to do that. So, perhaps, better at scratching the specific itch I mean, imagine criticizing doctors for using Uh, back in the good old days treatment was innovative. There were leeches and onion plasters, amputation penicillin, penicillin, penicillin. for all sounding the same ignores the about generations? What are they exactly? once every twenty years or so. New people every second. But that said, there are biological and age, roughly creating a few life generations goes all the way back to the western world, especially the US, and is Howe, whose landmark 1991 book influential and ambitious generation who coined term 'millennial,' by the way. expand a theory that society follows a about 20 years - about how long it takes to the next. The social mood and the common life what distinguishes one generation from social mood a turning. A turning describes the way accepting, challenging or fracturing in illustrate the cycle, let's start just so-called Gilded Age. Here we find what they call a &quot;high.&quot; This is a twenty year agreement about the direction it wants coalesced in the face of a crisis. adults are cautious and conformist. But then people tire of social of awakening occurs. The majority greater and broader individual autonomy. wake of an awakening leads to the next broad cultural identity, moral crusades next. Finally, a renewed interest in consensus together occurs. Society's mood shifts to together are the answer. The cycle then agrees on society's directions and crisis until people tire of this those institutions week and armed followed by an unraveling, where and the youth, raised in the previous two feel alienated. Strauss-Haus theory, if true, tells us will band together and build face of crisis. It's not clear what that predictive power, the climax of that theory is a great way to learn about you Al Gore once even gave a copy of But it is unscientific and unfalsifiable. choose the right examples. As for the usefulness of its the US Census Bureau only recognizes Baby boomers. Do you think you are a Well, that's fine, he says, you call yourself baby boomers are a cohort, significant or who they are, their size alone determines a lot about based solely on birth year, just don't into cohorts might focus on some other less better with behavior. Wealth, region, sexuality, etc. Regardless of its accuracy there's one critics do at least agree on. society surrounding people influences conflict. So, generational thinking is a It's one that helps take us on a journey, crew. Some crews are different than concern to stay safe. But at the end of same waters. Generations and juvenoia they are lies that tell the truth. And as always, thanks for watching. Here's a bonus. While doing research I found a website first used the year you were born. It's something you can do online now, guys. The shows that you know and love on own home, where they can flourish and be DONG. Go over there right now to check it Internet. That's what DONG's all about. we all find as we research for these episodes. And thanks for watching.