Nick: Today I'm eating a five course meal on a $100 I'm also going to be eating caviar on a $1 dinner on a $10,000 dinghy. But I'm starting here with this $100 sushi This boat is filled with every type of fish It's got sea urchin, scallops, tuna, shrimp, The crazy thing is, I never knew sushi boats this out. Come take a bite. I'm going to go for some uni. My second favorite food in the world behind And we're not even at level one. Let's head to our first real boat. This is a $10,000 boat that I'll be using to While the boat was actually less than dropping five lobster traps around this This thing rips well worth the money. The first trap is right up here. This is without a question, the hardest I've It's empty. But for now, I'm just going to extra scraps. Then toss in some new bait, locked it up back into the ocean, it goes. Trap number two. Nick:Oh, yeah. We've got our first lobster today. But if the lobsters torso is not 3.25 inches, we And this looks dangerously close. Let's check. You hook the front right inside And damn, as you can see, it's not quite This beautiful guy here gets to live another Trap number three. Do me proud. It's going to be a real sad day. If I came all the way out here to not catch Crabs. Damn it. One thing that does happen a lot when you of these crabs. The sun is starting to set. We still have two traps to check. I haven't lost hope, but I am starting to Trap number four. Crabs. Again. This is our last hope. Everything rides on what is in this trap Oh, my God. We got three. The lobster gods were looking out for us Manny, this thing is enormous. It's a lobster, big enough probably to feed We've got another beautiful one right here. In fact, this is a perfect size for just one going to cook up. But before I cook it up, need to stick bands on them so they don't Nick:I'll put a simple rubber band onto the end of Then I'll stretch it right around that claw For this, I'm going to start simple with going to cover and bring to a boil on my While this is heating up. I'm going to kill This will put them right out of his misery Once this begins to steam a little bit, It's been about 12 or 13 minutes, which time to eat. I don't think I've ever been life. With this tail here, I'm going to crack all the way down, then And when lobster is fresh like this, you can That right there is a perfect, beautiful Let's have a taste. Wow. The meat is so incredibly fresh. Now that the tail's done, I'll do the claws Drink the juice, crack once more. And out comes that beautiful claw. Because we only caught this lobster 15 record time for eating a lobster straight We're about to eat some caviar. This boat features a beautiful sundeck, a They even let Manny drive. Let's let the caviar cruise come in. Manny:Good evening, sir. I have your vintage 2012 Manny:May I? Manny:You're going to have to give me a second. Nick:Oh, my God. Manny:All right. I think I got it. Before you try this, I small batch. There's only 12 ever made. You're the first person to actually ever try Nick:Just open it. Manny:Okay? Just go like. Like this? Nick:Yep. Manny:Can I shake a little bit? Nick:No, don't shake it. Cameraman:Take the wire off. Nick:Oh, my. Oh, my God. Manny: I didn't know it's gonna explode. May I? Manny:Oh, my God. Nick:And now the most satisfying part of caviar. Opening the tin. Oh, my God. In addition to this incredible bottle of Dom poured, we have a 500 gram tin of Royal The best of the best. And this comes with a including Ritz crackers, potato chips, egg and lemon. I'm going to start with a Ritz Once we've loaded up our cracker, I'll fraiche. And this right here will be an Nick:Oh my God. It's salty. Nick:A little bit fatty. Super, super rich. I thought that lobster from earlier would be The only thing better than doing it on a For this one. I'll put just a touch of egg Manny, what'd you think of this boat? Manny:Insane. Nick:We're about to go on one 100 times bigger. This is Mirabella, one of the largest boats It also happens to have one of the best At nearly 160ft long, one of the largest This has got a lot of space. Before we eat, Jacuzzi right here. This massive outdoor everyone can share their food. It's got automatic doors. This boat is ten times fancier than my It even has this $100,000 hidden TV in the But just wait until you see this bathroom. What? This is crazy. This has to be the coolest bathroom ever. Walking through all these bathrooms, I Let's check out the bedrooms. Mirabella has not one, not two, but five And these bedrooms are so nice that it's This is just crazy. Hey, Captain. Captain:Hey, guys. Nick:This is fantastic. Look how many controls there are. Is it hard to captain a boat like this? Captain:It gets easier with experience. Nick:I'll tell you one thing. Right now, I would here. Captain:I wouldn't either. Nick:This boat has so many incredible things that not even find everything. And if all that wasn't enough, it's got But the kitchen is where the real magic Chef, how are you? Chef has prepared a five course meal for us Chef:Are you ready? Nick:We're ready. It's time for our first course. Whoa. What I've got in front of me here is with all the traditional sides. And this caviar alone goes for $10,000. The price of our dinghy from level one. Having caviar with potato chips is one that much fancier. And given the boat that me to take a nice large scoop of caviar and One more little scoop couldn't hurt. I'll finish it off with just a tiny dollop egg and just a few chives to top it off. That is what I call the We're moving on to course. Number two, this snapper with clear soy sauce, Japanese meat Visually, this dish is stunning, and I love floating over the sea. Because of the aging it takes the chef nearly a week to create It is completely unlike anything I've ever Our course. Number three. Oh, my God. For this dish, we've got salmon skin, street garnished with toasted macadamia nuts, Nick:These are so cool. The fact that the chef took the time to then turn the skin into these taco shells is And just by looking at this, I already know That is the type of bite that makes me wish day. There is a time when I spent $25,000 on here is 25 times better. This is just insane. We are getting even more fish for course number four. For this course, we've got a chili crisp. Now if I ever order a tuna like. We've got that beautiful, perfect pink of different sauces to dip it in. It actually tastes like he pulled the fish then onto my plate. Now for our last dish This is pork, two ways, and it's made with kurobuta pork, This dish smells incredible. It's served first on this beautiful bao bun, If we move over here, we have this Chinese Definitely one of my personal favorites. This essentially tastes like barbecued And I mean it many. You have to take a bite of this. Manny:Oh, my God. Nick:And for our final dish of the day, we have sorbet and a Wagyu beef caramel powder. Can't forget dessert. I don't even know I'll start by taking a satisfying spoonful Whoa. The only thing I don't like about this finish all of it. So make sure you go