Twinkle, twinkle little star. Oh. I know who At first glance, stars pretty much all look But as I talked about in episode 2, when you The most obvious is that some look bright and to them being at different distances, but it's also If you look through binoculars or take pictures of Some appear white, some red, orange, blue, and In the waning years of the 19th century, scientific tool. Being able to hook a camera meant being able to see fainter objects, It also meant that spectroscopy became a force, A spectrum is the result when you divide the colors, or wavelengths. This reveals a vast But in the late 1800s, we were only just starting Interpreting stellar spectra was a tough problem. of two different kinds of spectra. Stars are a continuous spectrum; that is, they emit However, stars also have atmospheres, thinner These gases absorb light at specific wavelengths in them. The result is that the continuous bands where different elements absorb different At first, stars were classified by the strengths called A stars, the next strongest B, then introduced by spectroscopist Annie Jump Cannon, and then rearranged them into one that classified many different absorption lines in their spectra. A few years later, physicist Max Planck solved like stars give off light of different colors based more light at the blue end of the spectrum, while cooler physicist Meghnad Saha solved another tough problem: Two decades later, the brilliant astronomer together. She showed that the spectra of stars their atmospheres. This unlocked the secrets not just their composition but also many other For example, at the time, it was thought that stars but Payne-Gaposchkin showed that stars were helium as the second most abundant element. The classification scheme proposed by Cannon today, and arranges stars by their temperature, rearranged from an older system the letters O-type stars, slightly cooler are B, followed but many people use the mnemonic, "Oh Be Girl, Kiss Me," to remember it -- which Each letter grouping is divided into 10 subgroups, discovered even cooler stars in the past few decades, The Sun has a surface temperature of about hotter star would be a G1, and a slightly cooler is much hotter than the Sun, and is classified as an Stars come in almost every color of the rainbow. there are orange and even some yellow stars. But there are no green stars. Look as much as you want, and you won't see color. A star can put out lots of green blue, and orange. And our eyes mix those together emit more green light than any other color, How do I know? Because if you look at the Isn't that weird? The Sun puts out more eyes see all the mixed colors together as Wait, what? White? You may be thinking the Not really. The light from the Sun is white, and blue and some green get scattered away appear to be coming from every direction but The Sun doesn't emit much purple, so the sky doesn't blue. That gives the Sun a yellowish tint to our so it's hard to accurately gauge what color orange or red: You're looking through more the bluer light is scattered away. So we can use spectra to determine a lot about a star's distance, things get amazing. You can measure how bright the star appears you can calculate how much energy it's actually An intrinsically faint light looks bright light far away. By knowing the distance, you can objects actually are. This was, no exaggeration, A lot of a star's physical characteristics are related: If two stars are the same size, but one is If two stars are the same temperature, but one Knowing the temperature and distance means Still, it's a lot of data. A century ago, of stars! How do you even start looking at The best way to understand a large group of relationship between color and distance? How contrast them in as many ways possible and I'll spare you the work. A century ago astronomers made a graph, in which they plotted a star's did, they got a surprise: a VERY strong trend. This is called an HR Diagram, after Hertzsprung call it the single most important graph in In this graph, really bright stars are near blue stars are on the left, and cool, red The groups are pretty obvious! There's that thick line running diagonally and the smaller clump to the lower left. but now we know this diagram is showing Most stars fall into that thick line, and Sequence. The term is a little misleading; usual in astronomy it's an old term and The reason the main sequence is a broad, long Like the Sun, stars generate energy by fusing A star that fuses hydrogen faster will be The rate of fusion depends on the pressure squeeze their cores harder, so they fuse It's pretty much that simple. And that explains the main sequence! Stars spend most of their lives fusing hydrogen has most of the stars on it; those are the ones merrily Massive stars are hotter and more luminous, sequence. Stars with lower mass are cooler the right, and so on. The Sun is there, too, What about the other groups? Well, the stars very faint. That means they must be small result of a star like the Sun eventually We'll get back to them in a future episode. The stars on the upper right are luminous are red giants, also part of the dying process SUPERgiants, massive stars beginning their also that luminous but at the upper left; rare, but they too are the end stage for some enough in a future episode. But I'll just say here that it, um, doesn't But, on a brighter note, we literally owe And this implies something very nifty about on it. Not only that, but massive stars versus different parts of the HR diagram as they tell at a glance just what a star is doing This difference between the way low mass stars actually critical to understanding a lot more that they'll be handled separately in later what's to come, but this aspect of stars -- was a MAJOR step in astronomy, leading And don't you worry: we'll get to all Today you learned that stars can be categorized this provides a wealth of information about temperature. The HR diagram plots stars' fall along the main sequence, where they live Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association YouTube channel and catch even more awesome Plait. The script was edited by Blake de Pastino, It was directed by Nicholas Jenkins, edited Aranda, and the graphics team is Thought Cafe.