How easy is it to dig up your personal information a friend of mine asked me for a special favor. we'll call him Dreamy Drew, and wanted to emotionally involved. He was being a All my friend could give me about a first name and some random &quot;about me&quot; stuff he Within 20 minutes, I knew everything about and some juicy details that would end up telling So how did I do it? What would as you watch me unmask this guy who you'll learn a bit about the most common mistakes Welcome to All Things Secured, my name is Josh and identities of the people involved in this own privacy and protection. My goal is to educate That kind of malicious search and publication is known as doxxing, and not only it's also not cool. It's a is at least helpful to understand so that you stick to the end of this video, I'll share with So back to Dreamy Drew. I decided to start with profile picture. I mean, I could make a guess white guy, assuming, of course, that he had used I decided to try two things. First, I looked the profile photo. It was a long shot, had accidentally been labeled or if the title Ok, so next, I downloaded a copy of the photo and because some of us tend to use the same profile wanted to see if I could match this photo to a All I had to do was go to Google Image search, I had to sift through a lot of results, but Drew had never used this photo anywhere else, or Ok, so the profile picture was looking to Facebook searches based on a few scant pieces of but the search was too broad Then it happened. While searching through the source code on information that may seem insignificant, but It was his username. While his public profile had been the dating website had failed to remove his I am not hacking or doing anything illegal here. that you can see by clicking developer tools in And just like profile pictures, people also online accounts. Sure enough, when I added the there he was. Dreamy Drew in all his glory. I learned a lot about Drew from his public information including his evening drinking habits, cute little Drew Jr. I'm reserving any little junior wasn't listed on the Now, out of sheer curiosity and because sometime I whatever else I could about Drew and Drew Jr. location, I was able to do a reverse lookup printed book that used to be delivered many phone numbers of everybody in the city? Well those and there are tons of them: Whitepages.com, And you know what's scary? With a simple search, I was able to get Drew's age, But come on, I mean, how did I Well, again, because I simply don't know when the address, searching through tax records and what I found was the cherry The house that Drew and Drew Jr. lived in was to be the same woman Drew had posted a picture Yup. Although I can't say with 100% certainty, I can make an educated guess that Phew! We just went from anonymous profile to mother's house in less than 20 minutes, found If that doesn't scare you, I don't know what will! single parents or people who live with particularly having a kid, seems like dating profile and I was glad to be able to share too emotionally invested in the relationship. So what can we learn from Dreamy Drew's story? First of all, and this is the easiest thing media accounts private. Unless you're there's no good reason you should have a is a simple switch in the privacy settings. but I've walked through the process in this video The second thing you need to understand is that a ton of your old information that is circulating don't have a Facebook account or if you rarely get property record or other document that was sold Now you can manually go through and find all that I mentioned earlier and you can submit I'll link to a DIY guide for how to do this for that it's a time-consuming process that Another option here, at least is using a service like DeleteMe to find and I'll do an in-depth review of how this works in my time trying to find and remove this information Finally, the last lesson I want you to online anonymity is a myth. That doesn't mean up. The pursuit of privacy is a worthy goal, but a relax, to let down our guard and perhaps say or We want to be prepared, not paranoid, so to this video here where I walk you step by step phone number and other private information