- Should farmers themselves that they paid for? Farmers say yes, but John Deere says no. (engines puttering) (engine revving) This leaping deer is across the globe enjoying a But like almost everything this one is ripe with controversy. In this episode, you're of these Illinois tractor boys and why a ton of farmers are suing them. This is everything you need to know to get Up To Speed on John Deere. (arcade music) Big old thank you once for sponsoring today's episode of-- (stuttering) - Bet you didn't think you'd see me again. Now with a few clicks, I will Mr. James Kentucky Cobra Humphrey. Oh, I see you've been Googling What are you, a horse freak? Hm, this is fun. Hm, I didn't know you Oh, I know all sorts What, HackLock? Wait, wait, no. No! of Surfshark VPN, baby. With Surfshark's HackLock to worry about Hacker Jerry It scans databases all for your personal information if your accounts are compromised, making your online experience safer. One of the coolest features is the ability to swap my location giving normally blocked here in I'm talking anime. If you want better online protection, click the link in the description below and try Surfshark VPN today. Enter promo code Donut and an extra three months free. Support sponsors that support Donut. And now, back to the show. Up To Speed, a battle between has been quietly fought and courtrooms all over And the crux of this issue is this, should farmers be allowed like they have been for 100 years? Now, it sounds crazy but that farmers don't even own their tractor, but instead an implied So how did it get this way? Well, we should probably - [Announcer] Chapter 1, The Plowlogue. - Our story about tractors begins before tractors were even tractors, back when tractors were In 1837, a blacksmith by John Deere was living in So one day, John's hanging and these farmers, they have a problem. Dan Aykroyd Chicago Hey, we gotta problem. Our plows don't be trudging sticky Midwestern soil and such. - Yeah, this mud is deeper - Hey, not so fast there, pal. Not all of our pizza is deep. Some of it is really thin and crispy. - Yeah, we need a plow that like our frickin' hot dogs. - Yeah, no ketchup. - No ketchup. - No ketchup. - So John got to thinking. He remembered this broken steel saw blade that he had sitting in his shop that he had salvaged So he threw the blade it worked really, really freaking well. And he was able to pump out so many plows and he left the small town of Grand Detour for the big city lights of In 1876, Deere registered with the US Patent Office, of the longest continually and a staple of mesh-backed (upbeat music) Even if the company never John Deere would've earned with this plow alone. (ringtone ringing) - [Announcer] Chapter 2, The First Deere. - In 1892, 103 years before a dude named John Froelich invented the first gasoline-ed tractor that used a one-cylinder engine to move the machine Froelich met up with and they all partnered together to form the Waterloo which immediately began struggling as the company was only before running out of money. (laughs) Then in 1914, they introduced which unlike the first attempt was a really freakin' sick tractor and the company sold 8,000 of them before it was discontinued. The Waterloo Company's experience to another company that was looking to round out their farm equipment line. And that company was Caterpillar, In 1923, John Deere marketed as a John Deere. No more Waterloo nameplate, okay. I'm calling this thing my name. Deere had a friggin' two-cylinder engine pushing 15 hrspr. They called it the Model D. While other tractor with more powerful four-cylinder designs, John Deere was making a conscious decision to make a less advanced tractor because they knew their on their machine to survive. And that stands in stark to keep farmers from repairing (engine puttering) The Model D was a huge success. It's basically the '32 Over the course of its 30-year lifespan, John Deere sold 160,000 Model Ds. So fast forwarding a the Great Depression then World War II followed, which meant John Deere When the Allies won, John on the next big thing. (engine starting) In 1949, Model M, took two years to design and would be John It was conceived as the Hydraulic touch-o-matic allowed them to adjust And out back, the new quick-tach system meant anybody could hook up equipment to the Model M by themselves, which streamlined the entire experience. John Deere also made the Model by including an air cushion seat and an adjustable steering wheel. My cars don't even have John Deere produced a version of the M for construction called the MC. The C stood for crawl because this booger had tracks like a frickin' tank. This was a big deal for the that John Deere could innovate outside of the farming industry. And also, who doesn't - [Announcer] Chapter 3, - If you're a city dweller like me, you might not ever encounter outside of the Red Bull soapbox course or maybe on Halloween or your local hayride facility. But farmers, they rely on when grasses aren't they need something to And that's where hay comes in. It's like Shredded Wheat In the 1930s, automatic to form and tie hay bales with twine. The problem with these balers someone behind you to throw But that changed in 1957 when John Deere introduced the 14T Baler, which had so-called which could throw the bales making hay baling a one-person Another leap for Deere around this time was the increase in engine displacement. Up until 1959, two-cylinder engines had ed all of Deere's tractors. But in 1960, that was about to change as they introduced 4M across the entire lineup, giving farmers even mo' (laughs) After the baby boom in of the American suburb was And with cookie cutter tract And boy, did Americans love their lawns. By 1959, nearly 6 million in the US and John Deere but with a different kind of motor. A tractor for the suburban age. In 1966, John Deere unveiled Besides the mowing blade of attachments for the urban like a snow thrower, snow blade and a pull-behind sprayer so you can spray delicious lawn treatment Well, John Deere had wide name recognition within the world of agriculture. Putting their baby tractors on suburban lawns all over the into the mainstream. - [Announcer] Because - John Deere followed that up at mainstream success with In 1971, they started with the And a 463 cc one called the 500. Deere stopped building the sleds in 1982 after selling the brand to one of their competitors, Polaris. Have you ever heard of it? (engine whirring) (crashing) - In 1972, John Deere was on the farming game in the shape of their Generation II tractors. These beefy boys were unlike anything the company had released before. Instead of sitting on top in the sun, Gen IIs called the Sound Guard. Not only did it protect you but the insulated cabin was also equipped with ample sound deadening again, improving a The largest of these tractors was a 4630, a crop row tractor making 150 horsepower. What's a row crop tractor? As the name suggests, for the cultivation of row crops. (chiming) As the '80s rolled on, John on fuel efficiency with their new lineup. And the change up couldn't have come at a more opportune time for them. Thanks to the combination of and declining crop exports, farms around the US were The event was called, The Farm Crisis. Finally, we get to talk other than a gas crisis. I talk it so much, we're (applauding and cheering) But because of Deere's refocus like International Harvester of the Farm Crisis, John Deere and went right ahead with new designs. They released a bunch of new tractors, but we like big stuff here. So I'm gonna talk about the big one. The largest of these new tractors was the gigantic Model 8850, a V8-powered, 370 hrspr, four-wheel drive beast. It was like the frickin' Charger Hellcat wide body of tractors. But capabilities like this about $320,000 in today's money. John Deere was on top of looking to break in to some new markets. But this time around, John a specific task like they This new Deere would be about utility. - [Announcer] Chapter 4, Gator Aid. - In 1992, John Deere This humble work vehicle was designed for all sorts of work in mind. They're a friggin' blast. It's the first thing that or a golf cart. The TH came in a 6 x 4 four of them putting power to the ground. Deere also released the which had four wheels instead of six. Now, the Gator is important not only in John Deere's it helped shape an entire Now stick with me. With the success of the followed suit with their companies like Polaris and Yamaha. Now, these things were much like the Gator, but They are frickin' so fun to drive! (engine revving) Polaris was the first and built a utility vehicle and they called it the RZR. And I don't know if you've noticed this, but RZRs are frickin' everywhere. You drive into any frickin' suburb, you either got an RV, a boat or a RZR. John Deere even got in on The RSX had four-wheel of 60 miles per hour. 60 miles per hour in The Gator reintroduced John who have never otherwise come I mean, I've never driven a tractor, but I've driven a million Gators. (engine rumbling) In 1994, John Deere dropped another game changer for The engineers wanted the turning radius of the get their vehicles on track but it just seemed impossible until engineer, Tara Woods, had an idea. All right, put the engine and use a dropbox transmission. This eliminated the need so the front wheels could The design worked. The advancement was so that the Smithsonian included Tara's drawing in an exhibit of significant napkin innovations. It seemed that John Deere as the 20th century came to a close. They were killing the farming game. But as the 2000s got into gear, some people actually believed that. Like John Deere was - [Announcer] Chapter 5, Right to Repair. - Going back to the question should farmers themselves be that they paid for? Because today's Deere's are so advanced, some even driving that to repair the machine and more of a question Now technically, you on your John Deere, but then to an authorized dealer for a mechanic to clear all of the error to get the machine operating again. Loading up a tractor ain't cheap. Some farmers have reported just to get their tractor not counting the cost to have Now, farmers say that John on the repair market. Make no mistake, John on this arrangement. But the tractor maker has a Just like in your car, tractors have to meet emission standards. And let's say a farmer has and tunes his Deere to make creating more pollution in the process. Now, that's not good. Another common Deere of unintended consequences cascading through the computer system not exactly knowing what they're doing and making the problem worse. That's sweet of you guys. 20 states in the country to help farmers regain but unfortunately, the battle Because the issue concerns like Apple have a tendency on the subject. John Deere lets their customers then a precedent might be set to make Apple let their users do the same. Apple doesn't want that. Because of this shared with tech sector right to repair advocates like Louis Rossmann, a YouTuber who shows people So he makes really good - John Deere in many ways acts We have a lot of the same on farms and farm equipment that try to work on these devices... - Never thought I'd die fighting - What about side by side with a friend? - Oh, I could do that. (laughs) - [Announcer] Chapter 6, Modern Venison. - So the right to repair fight aside, what does John Deere look like today? Their largest tractor a four-wheel drive, track-fueled machine with a 15 liter Cummings turbo diesel making 620 hrsprs, dude, ha-ha-ha. The 9620 was designed for maximum traction in wet and haily conditions. And since it uses tracks, is distributed over a larger on the soil below. As a bit of an immature farmer myself, I know that you don't wanna Also, I forgot to GPS guidance isn't exactly a new thing, but John Deere's AutoTrac guiding system steers the tractor while to look after whatever John Deere is an iconic name on the world of farming and by extension, the world together. As the tractors keep advancing, the company stands at a crossroads. Balancing the tradition it helped create and setting a new standard that is tarnishing the among the people who rely on the most. If you like this video, make sure you hit that subscribe button and the notification bell, We put out a new video If you wanna know more that changed the American landscape, check out this video I did on Peterbilt. Follow me on Instagram at at donutmedia, some fun I love you.