We are careening towards which means that we're also I'm gonna show you three and how to cut them for Mangoes, cherries, and pineapple. First fruit off the ranks - cherries. The thing about cherries is that little pit in the middle, so I'm gonna show you a you can get rid of it. First, pop the stalk, then cut around twist, and turn. So then you can use a fingernail or your paring knife then you get these lovely little cheeks which are perfect for and generally popping You can also get yourself especially if you're or any sort of desserts where a lot of cherries are necessary. You will lose the top there which doesn't look so pretty, so if you do want a what you can also do is use to poke in, twist the pip out and pull it right out. The other thing that you might like to do is grab yourself a bottle and a chopstick, and then poke, and the pit comes right out. But what you will find is that the flesh gets a little bit mangled. So this one's really good if you are making a cherry jam and you wanna avoid all those pits. It is kind of fun as well if you've got kids around, and you want them to but I am a personal fan of this, or just grabbing the cherry and, eating it as is. Next up is the mango. Mangoes are notoriously and I'm sure you've seen I'm gonna show you but I'll also show you the way that we like to eat our mangoes, keeping it really simple. Pip usually runs to of the stem side, depending on the So then you're gonna and then you can just cut this and give it to any to eat straight off the skin. I like to call these mango soldiers. If you do wanna peel into the mango so that you don't have any skin and you can finely slice it, you can fillet it like a fish. So pop it skin-side down, use the weight of the mango and just slice like so. And then you can julienne or dice or whatever it is that you need to do. And that's perfect for a fruit salad. You can also do mini cheeks like that. Just open them up. With the other side, I'm gonna do a full You slice the cheek off and now that you've it should be much easier to do. And then you slice in one way. A nice sharp knife helps. And then the other way, with the tip, and then just pop it open like that. This is gorgeous to 'cause it's so dramatic. You can definitely peel a mango. You can just use a vegetable peeler to peel the skin right off. And when it comes to slicing mangoes, keep it simple. Don't worry about hacking it at all. Soldiers, flowers, slice off the cheeks and bite into that pip. Don't leave all of this to go to waste. Pineapples appear particularly gnarly and difficult to slice, but there are a few easy So let's slice off the bottom so that we've got a nice steady base. Try and go as close to so that you don't lose The same goes with the top, slice off just the top top. OK. Now we've got a nice steady base. And then we are going And don't go so deep 'cause we'll chop This sawing motion means that you don't slice The sweetest part of the pineapple is actually towards the skin, which is why I'm trying to get rid of as little of that as possible. We've sliced the pineapple in half and you can use a smaller to slice out these little eyes and you can do them one at a time or a couple at a time as well. Just try not to lose as much And then once the eyes are all eliminated, you can slice into this pineapple just as you normally would. So you can slice in like this. You can get rid of the There we go. Then cut yourself little to serve up. Fruit like this is designed to be enjoyed and not fiddled with too much, so I hope I've given you some inspiration, a few little shortcuts along the way. Keep things simple, have one good sharp knife and one good paring knife and take it slow if you need to. But if all else fails, grab into it, chomp in with your teeth and enjoy. And I'll see you again.