Good morning everyone!! Today I woke up to the neighbour's dogs whimpering. It is pleasant temperatures today, so I am going out to Kyoto city centre to buy shoes. And I plan to spend a relaxing day in those shoes, walking around Kyoto and going to my favourite restaurants. First, I'm gonna wash my hair to fix my sleeping habits. Here in Japan, I rarely see people going out with sleeping habit. So as an adolescent and still now, every day I wish my hair was in an ideal state when I wake up in the morning. However, such things happen so rarely that, conversely, I can now forgive my hair for thinking of such days as lucky days. And I think my beard has been getting thicker and thicker lately. I still deal with it by using this tool to shave my eyebrows. My skin is easily irritated and I moisturise as soon as I wet my face. Do you have a morning routine that you do without fail every day? And how long does it take you to complete the routine? Please share with us in the comments! I`m gonna eat breakfast now. Today, unfortunately, there were no leftovers from last night and I didn't have the motivation to cook healthy meals today, so I'm going to make a Japanese easy-cook meal. This is a type of udon that can be easily cooked in a microwave oven. Heat at 500 W for 3 1/2 to 4 minutes. While waiting for the udon noodles to finish cooking, I changed the rubbish bags. This bag is for not unclean plastic waste. There are many other separation rules depending on the municipality, such as for bottles and cans (aluminium and steel) and food waste. Udon noodles have finished heating up. Add a raw egg. Use mentsuyu for flavouring. This is a type of light-flavoured soy sauce, flavoured with dried bonito flakes. Plus a few sesame seeds. Completed. That's it. Itadakimasu!! Eating raw eggs may be very strange to people in many countries. Whatever your feelings, I would just be happy to give you an interesting viewing of this culture. (But showing delicious face lol) By the way, the name of this dish is 'kamatama udon'. There is also 'kama-age udon' which does not use eggs. Please try either one. I hadn't yet read my favourite manga, Tower of God this week, so I'm gonna read it now. There are so many episodes that I have recently forgotten most of the first half... Gochisosama-deshita!! My cat (Sora) is not here today. Where is he hiding? He was so close. He is always good at hiding. It's always funny when I finally find him, the indescribable look on his face that says 'I'm not really interested in you' lol Now he seems to want to be alone. I have moments like that too. I intend to go to Kyoto from noon, so I will finish my laundry before then. Until recently I wasn't very aware of laundry, but the other day I saw on TV that it is not the amount of detergent but the amount of water that needs to be increased to effectively remove stains. I was hesitant to increase the amount of water because I thought it would be bad for the environment, but it might be better than using more detergent. For 30 minutes until the laundry is finished, I reread a book called 'Bushido' I bought a long time ago. 'Bushido' describes the ethics, morals and manners that a samurai should observe in his profession and in his daily life, and this is where I get my inspiration for life. I bought the type with the English translation on the left side to study English. Bushido has seven major teachings. Taking a cue from Bushido, the two things I value most are 'to love those who love me with all I am' and 'not to let others determine my happiness'. These were influenced by my high school years. Oops, laundry is almost done. Let's continue where we left off earlier. When I was in high school, I longed for the typically school life that I often saw in Japanese anime. It is the 'popular person liked by all' or the 'core group in the class or grade'. But alas, I was not it. The more I wanted to be, the more I worried about what everyone else thought of me, And because I was an adolescent, I struggled with the gap between my ideals and my introverted personality which had only a few friends and couldn't be the main character of the story. But I changed the way to think and realised that's a small comfy community with 'the few friends' who loved me, and I vowed to love them with all my heart, never spilling them, as there is a limit to the amount of water I can scoop with my small hands. As I mentioned in the comments section of my previous video, I have no friends 'in college' for a variety of reasons. That's the fact but now I can confidently say I am just happy even if I'm a sub character or others say 'your life isn't cool'. It's time to change clothes and go to Kyoto. I have recently gained more and more weight around my stomach and have gone up one belt size... Today, in addition to the clothes and pants, the bag is also UNIQLO. I shot this outfit, but I heard it gets cold at night so I ended up taking a big bag and a hoodie lol. The limited express train is crowded, so I take the rapid express train. As expected, there were very few people. Recently I have seen so many foreign tourists on the trains connecting Osaka and Kyoto. I feel they are more polite than Japanese to adjust to Japan. Thank you everyone :) On the train, I suddenly decided to go to karaoke after buying shoes. For Japanese karaoke, I highly recommend 'Jankara'. By entering the desired location, date of use, number of people, etc on app, you can book easily. Soft drinks are free, and students pay just 400 yen per hour. Since I recovered from a chronic eye disease, I have started to pay more attention to this 'ordinary' cityscape. Because it's the same sky, but just feeling that 'the sky is beautiful today' adds one more small happiness to my life:) Arrived at Gion Shijo, the heart of Kyoto (at least I think so lol). It's time for lunch, so Let's eat before going shoe shopping. Maybe because today is a weekday, I think there are fewer people than usual. Guess what I'm gonna eat lol The restaurant's name gave you a clue as to what I'm gonna eat lol. This is a ramen restaurant I often eat at in Kyoto. If you see me here while sightseeing, give me a shout lol I ordered a ramen with a light bonito broth called 'Heiwa' which means peace. Here up to five pieces of chashu pork are selected and you can add half an extra noodle for free. Waiter : Would you like to use a paper apron? Me : Yes, please Waiter : You can add half a noodle for free, Waiter : but it takes time, so please tell us as soon as possible! The soup is clear and has a very nice seafood aroma! (My reaction is modest because I'm sitting at the counter lol) I was so hungry that I forgot to take an insert shot of this ramen... By the way, the price of this ramen is about $6.2. I think this is the average price range for ramen in Japan. (I rushed to take an insert shot lol) I'll eat the menma. Is this known worldwide? It is made by lacto-fermenting bamboo shoots, then drying and seasoning them. Please share information in the comments section if you like! This chashu pork is so thin that it absorbs the broth, which makes it very tasty! I haven't ordered yet, but I received my free half noodle automatically by mistake or something. I wondered if I should order more noodles, but gave up because of the lack of time. When I finished eating, my stomach was more satisfied than I expected. Now let's go to the shoe store!! I walked along the side streets towards the shoe store. I was born in Osaka, so I love this downtown atmosphere. I came to a store called ABC Mart. This store has over 700 stores in Japan and carries a wide range of world-famous shoes, including Nike, New balance, adidas, and vans. I am looking for New balance shoes that I saw at an outlet in Tokyo before. I wasn't sure whether to buy it or not since I was traveling at the time, but I fell in love with it and it was on sale, and now I regret that I should have bought it. ($96) ($78) The color was slightly different from what I fell in love with at first sight, so I decided to look at another store as well. There were a lot of New balance shoes immediately. Actually, my feet are small, 24.5cm (9.7inch), just between men's and women's sizes, so it is difficult to find shoes suitable for me in Japan. There are many ABC Marts near here and I have been to other stores but could not find shoes in my size that fit me to my liking... I gave up on buying shoes today and walked down the back alley again and found a small, cute temple. Although it have a long history, the building seems to be a rather recently constructed temple, in 1932. This small space is beautifully designed with greenery and the sound of leaves rubbing against each other is very pleasant. I don't have a specific wish now, but I thanked here for this meeting anyway :) It was a very relaxing place to be and I would visit regularly again. I've been coming near here often since I was born, but there is still so much I don't know, and finding these beautiful secret places and little cafes is a small pleasure. Room numbers are displayed 30 minutes before the karaoke reservation time. I usually go to the normal Jankara, but today I decided to go to the Super Jankara where I had a room available. The prices are the same and it's my first time there so I don't know what the difference is yet. Go to room number 814, which was displayed earlier. So far the interior here is 'Super' than the normal Jankara I usually go to lol. But that's all so far lol. I am an anxious person, so I check the room number and the date and time of the booking many times in these situations. But I have never had any major delays thanks to this personality, so I appreciate this moderate anxiety disorder more than I thought I would. Arrived at my assigned room. When I arrive at my assigned room, I have to press the Start Using button. Reception and payment can be completed online if you make a booking on your app. Jankara, which I often visit, had free soft-serve ice cream and a drinks bar format, whereas here it was by order only. Alcohol is charged, but soft drinks are free. I ordered Seven Up!! Now let's sing more and more! It is good to have a enjoyable time together, but it is also good to relieve your own stress without worrying about anyone else in this way! Reserved a song. (The audio here may be deleted) I'm not sure if I sing well or badly. Either way, I was never a good singer but I always loved singing. I've always had a inferiority complex about having a deep and small voice, so I had a hard time getting to this point, but because I love it, I keep practicing to get better. Note that here, as with other media, I have only picked up on section in which I am confident lol In fact I still struggle a lot to sing in a high voice. I want to be able to sing well enough to one day sing at sunset on the beach and impress someone :) It's one of the things on my bucket list so I won't give up no matter what!! If you are a singing teacher, please contact me on ig.. Pleasee &gt;_&lt; ( Can someone please acknowledge my existence?) ( Even if it's just anybody.) ( If I could look you in the eye) ( And be honest with you.) ( I'm anxious, but...) ( I feel like I could be.) ( You'll do better than anyone else.) An hour flew by. Enviably good singing can be heard from other rooms... You can pay your bill at the unattended checkout machine at the front desk with QR code. If you register your payment method in the app, you can even leave the store without paying the bill here. But I dare to pay my bill here, because to pay online and leave the store directly would feel like using this place without paying lol. The sky is getting a little darker. In fact, for me, Kyoto really gets into its best mood from this time until the sky goes completely dark. The gentle sound of the river, the chill music of street musicians, the lights of the buildings, and the good smells of food. All your senses will feel happy. I wasn't very hungry, so I decided to buy a cafe latte at a convenience store. If you just want a good cup of coffee in Japan, not a cafe atmosphere, convenience stores offer the best coffee at the best price. All convenience stores are very particular about this coffee and I find the coffee at all of them to be quite good. If you come to Japan, please give it a try. I feel I rarely use cash these days, either QR, touch or card payments. But I was very impatient when I was forced to log out of the payment app in front of the cashier before lol. I had cash on me at the time, which helped, but I was in such a hurry that I forgot I even had cash on me until about halfway. The clerk was kind and didn't look at me weird, which was helpful. M size is about $1.3, L size is about $2.0 Take coffee and go along the Kamo River. You can already hear the chill guitar sound. It is a little chilly now, but it is great to have a relaxing drink here at this time of day in the summer. Today there are fewer people. I decided to sit here. Itadakimasu I used to always listen to music with earphones at these times, but recently I have started to take time to do nothing and clear my head like this. When we choose to simply do nothing in our busy daily lives and dare to be aware of the things we take for granted, we see the same things but in a different better world. I bought a new iphone case and magsafe gadgets yesterday. I had been using a 100 yen ($0.7) case and was amazed at the difference in ease of pressing buttons, etc. And I didn't know magsafe was so useful. (My favorite picture I took) I had a cold latte, and it was getting a bit cold. Idiot &gt;_&lt; I decided to leave here sooner than I thought. This musician's performance is too comfortable... Finally, I wanna share my favorite street with you all before I leave Kyoto. I always walk that way when I come here before I leave. I hope you all will go there when you come here. That street is right next to this Shijo Ohashi bridge. This street is called Ponto-cho-street. Here, you can dine at some of Japan's best restaurants, including Wagyu beef and sushi, while enjoying a view of the Kamo River that I just showed you. I used to work part time at a restaurant on this street. Most of the customers there were foreign tourists, and it was a very happy experience for me to see them eating our food so deliciously. And my dream for the future is to own such a Japanese restaurant myself and fill the bellies of many foreigners who love my country with happiness. I enjoyed my time without listening to music earlier, but I will go home in a good mood listening to music!! The sound of insects is pleasant, so I wanna enjoy outside sounds at the same time without using noise cancellation! Due to copyright issues, it plays music different from what I actually hear. sorry &gt;_&lt; You can check this spotify playlist I'm hearing now from my linktree! The train ride home was quite crowded &gt;_&lt; I walked 20,000 steps in one day today so it is hard to get on the train standing up... Even at night, the contrast between the sky and clouds is extremely beautiful :) See you in the next video!