(phone rings) - Rip, get everyone back - Your dad's been shot. - Where? - Every fucking where, Kayce. Listen, I want you to look for a blue. two-toned van You understand? - How bad is he? - I mean, I'm an hour from the hospital. He ain't got a fuckin' hour, Kayce. - Fuck, send me your location. I'll send a care flight. - Um, let's do Hemmett's pasture on 89. Tell the chopper I'll - We're looking for a blue Hendon, give me a care Hemmett's pasture, now! - Stand down, Kayce. I need you two units to stay here. You come with me. (tense music) (tires squeal) - Who's this? - That's the man hired to kill us. - Hired by who? - That's the question. - Where is he? - Prison in Red Lodge. You need to ask your brother Have him set an interview - I, I have to go. This came over from the Bureau of Prisons. - Mm, thank you. (suspenseful music) Oh my, God. (prison door unlocks) Full immunity. - Okay, ask away. Terrell, you can answer his questions without fear of prosecution. - No matter what I say? - No matter what you say, - What about in here? Ain't no immunity for a snitch. - You'll be put into protective custody. With good behavior, we can move you to a medium security facility that is significantly more - Fire away. - Do you know this man? Did this man hire you to on the Dutton family? (suspenseful music) (door closes) - Where'd your appetite go, son? - Terrell Riggins, that's where it went. - Hm. Good old Terrell. - I'm gonna need you to stand up slowly with your hands above your head. Walk backwards five paces. Do not turn around. I said do not turn around! - If you wanna shoot, shoot. It'll be murdering, but you covered up. - Don't talk to me about murdering. Now stand up and turn the fuck around! - No, just shoot me. I'd much prefer that than in the house I built for you. Yes, I built it. I gave you the strength to walk from the shadow of that fucking land baron you called father for the - You tried to kill my family. - That's not your family. This is your family. You know that's true, you know. I have no agenda, but that you never had and a Did I try to kill them? You're god damn right I did. And I'll keep trying till I get it right. That's how much I love you. (Jamie whimpers) (Jamie crying) - You have a visitor. - I don't have an appointment. - Not an appointment, a visitor. - A visitor. - I wanted to share the good news. He made an honest woman of me. (door closes) - Congratulations. - Thank you. - What do you want? - I knew it was you. - I'm not playing this game again. - It's not a game, Jamie. Yeah, on that fancy computer, log on to the Bureau of Prison's You do have access to that. I was always the computer whiz. Let me have a crack at it. Move over. - Get away from my, ow! - I have done everything I need to do to never see this world again, Jamie. I am prepared. I will ruin my life today. And I swear to God, I'll fuckin' kill you, so just sit down and let me do it. (snorts) Auto fill on the passwords? (snorts) Good for you, Jamie. Way to keep the computer system secure. Have a look. - If you saw him, then - It's not what he said. - Well, he's fucking lying. - You saw him in the prison. - I went to see him in the prison to find out if my father - Was he? - I had no idea, none. He, he, he only admitted it once I held a fucking gun to his head. - And when he did admit it, why didn't you blow his head off? - I, he's... - I'll tell you why. Because deep down in here I'm sure he told you that he did it 'cause he loves you, right? He loves you, Jamie. And he wants the best for you and all the things that you deserve. But that's just not the truth, is it? He just wants what you want. He wants what everyone who He wants the land. Option one, I tell my father. He will call the governor and he will have you both arrested. Your spineless, woman-murdering father will instantly say it was your idea. You know that, right? He will cut an immunity deal and he will testify against you. You will be charged with and will spend the rest Option two, now this is a good one. I tell my husband what your And then I tell my husband that you had his child cut from my belly. And then you had me sterilized so he can never have a family of his own. And you, no matter where and he will tear you apart Wouldn't you like to know - Yes, wait. Yes, please, please, please, Please. - There is a third option. Care to hear it? - Most people, the best they can hope is to dream about something like this. You know, most people, something like this exists to dream about. I'm 61 years old and these last months, well, they've made all 60 years of fuckin' hell I endured worth it. Don't you let those into thinking you're a bad man. You're a good man, son, and I love ya. - I love you too, Dad. (gun fires) (Jamie weeps) - Stop. Turn around. You should have picked options one or two. Three's gonna be worse. But you're fuckin' mine now. - I'm very different I came up at a time when the to keep women off it. I climbed it anyway. Stepping over some little The big dog is off the porch now, Beth, and I will tear you to fucking pieces, starting with an SEC for market manipulation You wanna fight? Let me introduce you to the That's behind door number one. Behind door number two is common ground. - Fire away. - You put together a land - I put together a land Schwartz and Meyer is a minority investor with no controlling interest. - Smart. - We'd like to make an offer on it. - Not for sale. - That should be your family's motto. Jamie leased us what he could have sold and made the ranch a hundred It'll be 50 years before the Stubbornness is not a It's how you'll lose the ranch altogether. You're smart enough to know that. - Oh, I know it, and if we still own it by the time my father But in the meantime, and I will die on the - Come and work for us and - Doing what? - What you do. You're a corporate raider. Come and raid for Market Equities. - You apply logic to your I respect that. But asking a wolf to protect And you are smart enough to know that. - You can have the sheep, Beth. I've taken all your father's You wanna save the rest of - What are you building now? - Every resource of Montana can be grown somewhere else for less. The fantasy of the West is its Colorado embraced that decades ago. It's time Montana did the same. Build me Aspen, build me Breckenridge. I want a destination town in every valley. But I need an insider to do that. This is a name-your-price offer, Beth. - You have controlling interest of Schwartz and Meyer now, right? That's my price. - You want a piece of Schwartz and Meyer? - I want your piece. You give me that, I'm yours. - You're going to fire him. - I'm gonna bankrupt him first. I want his fucking You break your word to me, lady, I'll do the same to you. - Phase one is white, phase two green. Phase three blue. Phase four yellow. Now, you'll notice in phase one we lay infrastructure - So you're laying in roadways, electric, sewage for - In the long term Laying infrastructure in - Kyle, this makes assumptions that we can't make. - Uh, not the time or the place. This is a design meeting. - Can I see an ownership plat over this? - It's not relevant at this time. - Well, if you're building roads and sewers on land that you don't own, I'd say it's pretty fuckin' relevant. - Well, I guess we're gonna find out who you're loyal to, Beth. - No one mentioned this to me. - Beth, there are two You saw the airport design. - Yes. - So what did you think You said it yourself, you'd Well, this is Park City. (crowd chanting) - Hey, gotta take this Hey you, cameraman, get down! - Excuse me? - This is all private property. Lawyers have decided it's too much of a liability having you here. - Liability. - That's right, insurance. Your cameraman, he can fall No bueno. - You're serious. - Very. Look, what's your name? - Leslie. - So I'll make you deal, Leslie. Give me your number, and when about to happen, I'll give you a call. - Why would you do that? - Well, let's just say - That's my cell. - You know, Leslie, I if you know what I mean. - I know what you mean. - They're here. - Time to take one for the team. - Yeah. (suspenseful music) (crowd screaming) - I thought - They were set up on the road. - How did they know to set up on the road? - Unclear, tipped off. Probably one of the protestors. - In total, 117 protestors and charged with criminal trespassing, criminal mischief, and Three have been charged with and the leader of Free has been charged with on a peace officer. She was arrested a few weeks ago for a similar assault on livestock agents and sheriff's deputies - Hmm. It seems the narrative is in our favor. - We need a big news day in New York. If this goes national, the When people come here, to be a bunch of rednecks, I guess you could say. They don't expect you. They don't expect a fight. That's why you have been such an effective nuisance for so long. I, however, was aware of just what a huge problem you could be. I was prepared. I gave you enough rope to hang yourself, and oh boy, did you fucking hang yourself. You have violated everything, from the terms of your You have committed corporate espionage. - I don't know anything about that. - Look at the ease with which you lie. Do you think I don't know We own that fucking building! What do you suppose we'll find when I subpoena the little and the reporters? - Good luck with that. First Amendment and all. - I manage the largest And you know what you've done? You've made it personal for me. I don't care how much we I'm gonna put a public restroom I'm gonna chop down every I am going to rape your And you, you little bitch, Needless to say, you're fired. (wolf howls) (phone rings) - Something wrong? - I didn't know y'all had - There aren't. - There's one. - You saw a wolf. - I'm staring at him right now. - Let me talk to the chairman. I'll get back to you tomorrow. Kayce, whatever you do, don't shoot it. - Well, if it gets near my - If it goes near And if you shoot it, you fail. I'll call you tomorrow. - The wolf is our protector. Your spirit animal. 'Cause in your heart, But carrying the wolf is a burden. - He is the hunter most Man and wolf evolve together. We form packs like they do. We raid territories like they do. Destroy their enemies like we do. And we have tried everything Before guns and bows, they tried everything to destroy us. It is said the wolf exists and man exists to manage - So if we're supposed why is one protecting me? - I don't know. You'll have to ask the wolf. - How do I do that? - Hanbleceya, cry for a vision. If you cry hard enough, he might tell you. - I don't know how. - Your wife knows how, I know how. When you're ready, we'll teach you. - I'm ready. How long's hanbleceya? - Four days and four nights. No food, no water. - No water. - None. - I'll die. - You must stand on a cliff of death to understand your purpose in life. It's the only place where you can see it. Use the sage to keep bad spirits out. Use the sweet grass to call Smoke the pipe when you pray, understand? - You'll be surprised all your moments in life in your mind. And then what? When you are without memories, without fantasies to embrace or to reject, what will you think of then? What will come to you depends on how hard you pray and how much you suffer. Close him in, Mo. (tense music) - How will you know when I'm done? - How will you know, Kayce? That is the question. (wind blows furiously) - You're not real. - It depends on what you think real means. - I don't know you. - You see what you can understand. You know me. You ready? - Ready for what? - To stand on the cliff. Come on, through the doors, for there's no telling what when you get back. (wind blows furiously) What do you see? - Two paths. - Look down the left one. - Oh God. - Now look down the right. Tough choice. - Can you help me make it? - I can help you walk the - Let's go home. - What did you see? - I saw the end of us.