Having phrasal verbs to your vocabulary will and will also help you understand native speakers So in this lesson you're going to learn the use now, to make this lesson more interesting verbs into groups of 10 and first you're going Owing to complete a quiz to see how well, explain the phrasal verbs in detail and then you really understand how to use them. So by the end of this lesson, you're going verbs. Let's get started question 1. The phrasal verb used to invite someone on Is now I'm only going to give you three seconds So hit pause, take as much time as you need, answer. The phrasal verb is to ask out the question If you like a jean ra of music you can say I'm really into country music. Remember, I'm going to explain every single So don't worry, if this test is difficult can say that movie really me down That movie really brought me down number four. If you think someone should be happier you Cheer Up, cheer up and number five, do you home? Do you have time to pick up number six? You see that box. Can you at the post office? Can you drop it off? Number 7. We ended up. At home. We ended up staying at home number 8, which something. To turn down number nine, when you complete This is true number 10. How did you? That Maria was fired. How did you find out? So, how did you do with that quiz? Was it easy or difficult to share your score And now, I'll explain every phrasal verb in With example, sentences number one to ask Now, pay attention to the sentence structure only ask someone out, you don't Ask something out and here is the reason why on a romantic evening together, also known So to ask someone out, you invite them on A date is a romantic evening. Spent with someone, of course it doesn't have It could be a morning coffee date or an afternoon As well. But I just said evening because most of the So let me give you an example sentence. Why hasn't Jim asked Maria? I won't yet he's obviously into her. So notice here why hasn't Jim asked Maria Ask someone out our someone is Maria. Now, of course you need the subject who's So Jim is inviting me. Area on a date. A date is always romantic right now. Maria could say no and we're going to talk verbs. So let me give you that example again. Why hasn't Jim asked Maria out yet? He's obviously into her now, you might be He's obviously into her? Well, that's our next phrasal verb to be into. Someone to be into someone. Now, here I'll point out that you can also to be into someone when you're into someone. I'm sure you notice based on the context, Now the context is really important because I'm really into. I'm really into Jack Johnson. Now, when I say that, oh, I'm really into I don't like Jack Johnson romantically, although him romantically, but I really like his music. So if you use into someone, it depends on But there is this meaning of liking. And for the most part Part that light King is romantic. So if I said Jim is into Maria, he likes her into a celebrity or a musician and actor, necessarily romantically so keep that in mind. Now, remember I said you could also be To something. Now, in this case we're talking about liking a hobby. So I was really into Jack Johnson, when I guitar, Jack Johnson is a amazing musician, So I was really into him and mainly when I Guitar. Those are two activities. I don't really do much anymore simply because It isn't a priority for me to do those activities Although one day I would definitely like to any hobby or activity. Oh, I'm really into going hiking. I'm really into playing video games. So we use this. Hobbies and activities. Mainly, our next phrasal verb to bring someone unhappy, but there's that transition because to bring them down and now they're not happy before. So I could say that movie really brought me Down. Now, notice here, the my subject is the movie, I could also use a person. My boss brought me down so something, or someone me down. So, I was happy. And then I watched the movie. And now, I'm not happy or I'm less happy, Sad or depressing something like that. Number four to cheer up. So you can think of this as the opposite to Now we commonly use this in the imperative, be sad cheer up so we commonly use this in ways. For example, I could say I took my friend CH to cheer her up to cheer her up. So that's the reason why I wanted to make Number five to pick someone or something up. This is one of the most common phrasal verbs. You probably know it, but did, you know? You can also pick something up, you pick someone when you take an object, A person from one location to another location. So, of course, you might know it in the sense my husband up after work, right? That's probably how, you know it but you can could call you and say oh hey can you pick On your way home can you pick milk up? So you're going to go to a location, the store, Your home. Can you pick milk up on your way home? Who's very common to get a call from someone Hey, can you pick this up? Can you pick this up on your way home? And that something is a grocery item or something So now, you know, how to use it with a Anna. Something and what's the opposite of to pick Well, it's to drop someone off and you can or something off. It's to leave someone or something at a specific So of course, you could say, I drop my husband I dropped my friend off at the airport. Now, you might also ask Ask someone, can you drop this letter off So they take the letter and they leave it The post office or a mailbox. Can you drop this letter off on your way to Number 72, end up to end up is a very useful We use it to say that you eventually do something. Or eventually decide something. So you might say I ended up asking, Julie I ended up asking, Julie out, who is our first I can't remember. Oh, it wasn't Julie. It was Jim and Maria. So let me give that again. Jim ended up asking Maria out. So remember before I said, why hasn't Jim Oh yeah. Yet. So now remember to end up that's to eventually Jim ended up asking Maria out by but she turned Remember I said at the beginning, I'm going If Maria I was going to see Julie. Again, if Maria says no, well that's to turn That's our next phrasal verb to turn someone Now you can also turn something down. Can you think of something that you might Hmm. How about a job offer? Hmm. Something like that. So, to turn someone down to turn something a proposal to do something and you say, no, You refuse you You reject, you say, no. So Maria turned gym down. Now, you might also say I was turned down I was turned down. Now you could turn that into an active sentence. They turned me down. I was turned down by the company, they turned So in this specific phrasal verb, it is commonly In the passive. So I would get comfortable with the passive, as well. Number 9 to fill in, or to fill out forms. Okay, so notice your I gave you two prepositions. I know students, get confused. What's the difference between Finland and There is no difference. So specifically with forms. That's the only time that there is no difference Nation into a form, your filling in that form. You're also filling out that form. It doesn't matter which preposition you use So I just changed between fill in fill out. I use both and you can too. So if you go to an office, they might say fill out this form. Drop it off at reception. No. Is drop it off at reception, so take it to Drop it off. At reception, our final phrasal verb to find you learn something, or you discover something. So maybe going back to our character Jim. So maybe Jim could say, how did you find out So maybe. The gym is a little embarrassed. He thought this was just a secret, nobody up because he knew Maria turned him down after So Jim could say, how did you find out that So how did you discover this? How did you learn this? How did you find this out? And we This is when you want to get information as So I might say I need to find out when the I need to drop off but I don't know when they I need to find that out so learn or discover So now that you understand all of these phrasal beginning again. And then you can compare your score from the So let's do that. Same quiz. Now, question 1. The phrasal verb used to invite someone on The phrasal verb is to ask out question 2. If you like a jean ra of music, you can say I'm really into country music number three. If a movie made you sad, you can say that That movie really brought me down number four. If you think someone should be happier you Cheer Up, cheer up. Number five, do you have time to the dry cleaning Do you have time to pick up number six? You see that box. Can you at the post office? Can you drop it off? Number 7. We ended up. At home. We ended up staying at home number 8, which something. To turn down number nine, when you complete This is true. The number 10. How did you That Maria was fired. How did you find out? Question 1, please bear me while I look up please bear with me while I look up your file means, To attend to means to work on number 3. Why are you so angry? You need to cool. You need to cool down number for the phrasal the phrasal verb for repair is fix up number so you can reach an agreement is To hash out to hash out number 6. If someone is being too serious you can tell Lighten up, lighten up, you're being too serious. Lighten up number 7, after years of studying My hard work has finally paid off number 8, A graphic designer. We shouldn't rule out hiring, a graphic designer, For being late again. My boss chewed me out for being late again Let's give everyone a few minutes to before To settle in. So, how did you do with that quiz? Was it easy, difficult? Share your score in the comments below and verb in detail. So let's do that. Now to bear with someone, this is a very common It has a simple, meaning, it means to be patient So we use this a lot with customer service. Natives or anytime. Someone is providing you with a service now. It's very common when that person is providing with me. Please bear with me. Please be patient. So notice our verb tense, that's in the imperative, So we're starting with the base verb. Now, if you use this verb, in other verb tenses, The How simple is boar and the past participial It's born. That's right, born with an optional easy for same in the past simple. You could say I bore with him for 20 minutes, in the past participial you can use this in Perfect. You Might say I've born with you for 20 minutes. Our next phrasal verb is to attend to. Now notice, we're using the verb a tent. And I could say last night, I attended the That's just a regular verb because I don't I attended the party I went to the Party. But if we use the phrasal verb attend to the I could say I attended to the party. Now in this case, this means that I worked So how could you work on a party? Well, you could work on organizing a party. So organizing all the details, sending out Buying the food, cleaning the apartment, getting So pay attention because the verb attend and meanings are next phrasal verb to cool. Down to cool down, we use this when someone want them to relax, You can say cool down, cool down. So let's say a client has been sending you angry irritated annoyed frustrated with that But before you call that client, you should You need to take a minute and relax because angry and frustrated and annoyed you need Cool down. Relax, chill. Our next phrasal verb to fix something up. When you fix something up, it means you repair Now, in this case, when you change it is not It could be that it's functioning but you So you make some changes to it, you fix it So for example, Humble I could say Sally loves fixing up old Fixing up old cars so she repairs them but Maybe the car is working perfectly but she She changes the color or she adds something Now this is a very common phrasal verb around to fix up, right? To change to repair to improve our next phrasal To Hash something out, when you have something with other people, and you do that because agreement on the details, so you can use this a party planning a project, any kind of event. And of course, with a project or conference, who's doing what? So, you need to. Hash out those details, you need to talk about We agreed to the time of the conference, we conference are nice. Phrasal verb to lighten up. Now, remember I already taught you to cool annoyed and you want to relax. Well, when you tell someone to lighten up angry, frustrated or annoyed. They're just being too serious, that's it. They're being too serious. They don't have a sense of humor, so maybe With a co-worker and they took it too seriously around but they're too serious. So you might say lighten up. Lighten up laugh, a little smile, a little So someone who's always Like this, you know, they're not smiling. They're not laughing. They're just always very serious. You might want to tell that person to lighten But just remember it isn't the same as cool lighten up. You're too serious. That's the difference between the two, our Now when Thing pays off it means that you see the benefit So let's say, you spent the last month at the exam and you passed, you got a really You can say all my studying paid off. So remember something pays off. My studying paid off. I now see the benefit of all the studying So we use this a lot for any kind of work Now it can be mental work for studying for as well. So all you're dieting. You're exercising, paid off because now you Or stronger. You see the benefits of all your work. So we can use this with both mental work and Our next phrasal verb to rule out. We use this when something prevents something So, a classic example, we have covid and we Covid is preventing traveling from happening, So we can say, covid-19 t traveling? Right covid. Prevented traveling covid ruled out traveling Someone out to chew someone out. This is when you tell someone that they've so you don't tell them comment calmly. Even though you made a mistake, you shouldn't No, you're angry. So you might yell a little you might use language Somebody did something wrong and you tell So maybe your boss chewed you out because So your boss was not calm, your boss was angry. Why were you late? You shouldn't have Late, why are you haven't? I fired you yet, he chews, you out, or maybe you out because you missed an important practice. Now, a, somebody choose you out, and they're What phrasal verb goes with that phrasal verb, Because if somebody's angry, why were you You can say, cool down, cool down. Relax. And then you can explain why you were late In when you settle in, it means you get comfortable And that new environment is generally a new And of course at the beginning, you're not right? But then you Some time to settle in so settle in just means So let's say you move to a new city and a have you settled in, have you settled in? So they're just asking you, do you feel comfortable back and say, yeah, I've settled in or no, Now that you know how to use all of these How about we do the exact same quiz from the from the first time to this time. So let's do that quiz again. Now, question 1, please bear me while I look please bear with me while I look up your file means, To attend to means to work on number 3. Why are you so angry? You need to cool. you need to cool down a number for the phrasal the phrasal verb for repair is fix up number so you can reach an agreement is To hash out to hash out number 6. If someone is being too serious you can tell Lighten up, lighten up, you're being too serious. Lighten up number 7, after years of studying My hard work has finally paid off number 8, A graphic designer. We shouldn't rule out hiring, a graphic designer, My boss chewed me out for being late again Let's give everyone a few minutes to before To settle in. question 1, the phrasal verb used when you is The phrasal verb is to save in question 2 your calendar, you can block it. You can block it off question 3. When the fire alarm went off everyone. Of the building. Everyone cleared out of the building question We'll have to do without question 5. If someone is removed from a position against They are forced out of that position. Number six, the phrasal verb used when information To sink in question, 7, the government had The government had to bail out question 8. Oh no. I think I behind my phone. I think I left behind my phone. Question, nine. You don't want to miss this amazing opportunity. Miss out on and question 10. The phrasal verb for arrive is Show up. So how did you do with that quiz with it easy Now, I'll explain every phrasal verb in detail as well to face something in. When you face something in, it means that it gradually which means little by little Seing is a new law, a new rule, a new regulation, So let's say that your company has a new policy code will tell you what you can and cannot Now let's say they announced the new dress dress code, over the next two months. Now, why would they want to introduce it little Well, maybe it's because they want to give You might have to go out and buy new clothing So you might have to save money to do that So maybe the first week, they introduced the then the next week it's the new shoes and little by little they phase in the new dress. Code number to, to block off. Now, the thing about phrasal verbs is there So in this context, a block off, we're talking on your schedule, so you're blocking off time. So what does that mean? It means that you reserve that time for a Or activity and you reserve that time. So no one else can schedule a meeting with during those specific blocks of time because So let's say you're preparing for the I elds Friday from 7 to 9 in your calendar and that Studying for I oats, or if you have an important entire day. So, you might block off Monday and just focus So you can meet the deadline. So this is probably something you do every Anyway, for time management purposes and now Naturally in English number three to clear And again remember, phrasal verbs Are used in a very specific context. And in this context, we are talking about or even a conference and office a mall. Any location that has a lot of people in it And when people clear out of a location, it location then becomes empty. So the majority Charity. Or all of the people, leave a location, that's So let's say, you go to lunch at a restaurant the last available table and you're eating then around 2:30, you look around and you the restaurant and remember the Restaurant was full when you got there so it really cleared out which means everybody The restaurant number for to do without something. This is a really useful one because it's a certain things at certain times in your life. So when you do without something, it means Despite the lack of, and it's the lack of So let me give you an example. Maybe finances are a little tight, you didn't You were hoping for. So you might say, we'll have to do without a cleaner. So a cleaner is someone who cleans your house Previously, a lot of Call this a maid. I know many people in certain countries, still It's considered outdated. And even a little Politically Incorrect to We Now call them house cleaners so just so, use house cleaner. So, you have to manage manager, day-to-day cleaner. Are we have to do without a house cleaner? Because I didn't get the bonus so you can gave you or you can use this in a work context Maybe your assistant, quit and you're having So you might say, well, I guess I'll have which means you have to manage all your work I think it's a very useful phrasal verb because certain points in our life. Our next phrasal verb to force out, this is You're going to hear it in the media and newspapers When someone is forced out, it means that it wasn't their decision to do. So notice is the sentence structure. I used, I put this in the passive to be forced the Scandal, so there's a scandal, obviously So the company wanted him to leave the CEO Did not want to leave, but the company wanted So the CEO was forced out. Now, if you use it in the active sentence, So, you might say the board of directors forced absolutely use this in the active, but it's Our next phrasal verb. Number six to sink in when something sinks And The something that sinking in is information For example, it took them a while before his So, his mother died, but that fact, that event It didn't become clear. So he didn't process it. He didn't fully understand it. He didn't fully accept it as Fact, as a reality for some time. So the event, his mother's death didn't sink So we do use this a lot for tragic events, complicated information. For example, let's say your coworker is explaining technical. So your co-workers explaining it explaining say, Give me a minute to let that sink in. So, that is the information. The information. Your coworker was just explaining and for It means for you to fully understand it to So we can use it for tragic events, but we Number seven, to bail out. This is another must know, business freezer, Verb. But you can also use it in your personal life, When you bail someone out, it means that you difficult situation. So remember that CEO? That was forced out in our previous example? Well, maybe he had a sister that bailed him his sister helped him financially. Anshel e. So maybe she gave them a place to stay because She gave him food because he couldn't afford he didn't have any his sister bailed him out But this is commonly used in a business context companies because they're about to go bankrupt. And why would the government do that? Well, because that company is important for For example, in the US, the company Chrysler, They've been bailed out by the government As a company, has almost gone bankrupt multiple bailed the company out. They bailed Chrysler out now. Number 8 to leave something behind. This is a very useful. One in your everyday vocabulary, when you you forget something at a specific location. So, we do this all the time, right? We go to a restaurant, a cafe. We put our phone on the counter, we get our behind. I think I left my phone behind at the cafe. So it's just the same as saying. I think I forgot my phone at the cafe, you You can leave behind your keys, your sweater, So this is a very useful one. So what about you? Have you ever left something important behind, laptop behind or important, Family Photos Have you ever left? Being behind, let us know in the comments. Number nine to miss out on something to miss an important opportunity or an experience, So, let's say that you work for Tesla and office that day and you were going to get Your bus was late and you didn't get to work You my friend just missed out on an opportunity Musk? So you could say, I can't believe I missed You can just end it there. I can't believe I missed out if you want to II missed out on meeting Elon Musk and finally simple definition. It means to appear or arrived, native speakers. Don't really use a peer or arrived. We use show up. For example, what time did you show up to I would never say, what time did you arrive I wouldn't say that. That sounds unnatural outdated to formal, I would say What time did you show up to the party? What time did you show up last night? Now let's say you got to work late, one day, you're walking to your desk and you're 45 Late and your boss might look at you and say, That's It's Lee sarcastic. But this happens a lot. If you get to a party, really late or even your, your husband, or your wife, but dinner 7:30 and your husband, or your wife has been When you get home, they might say, oh, how So we use this a lot in a sarcastic. Okwe when someone is late but we also use Oh I showed up at and then you say the time. So now that you feel more comfortable with same quiz again and you can compare your score So let's do that quiz again. Now question 1. The phrasal verb used. when you gradually introduce a new rule policy The phrasal verb is to save in question 2 your calendar, you can block it. You can block it off question 3. When the fire alarm went off everyone. Of the building. Everyone cleared out of the building question We'll have to do without question 5. If someone is removed from a position against They are forced out of that position. Number six, the phrasal verb used when information To sink in question, 7, the government had The government had to bail out question 8. Oh no. I think I behind my phone. I think I left behind my phone. Question, nine. You don't want to miss this amazing opportunity. Miss out on and question 10. The phrasal verb for arrive is show up. Question 1. This new app I downloaded So much memory. This new app, I downloaded takes up question It If branch has out question, 3, the phrasal When you write something down, is Jot down question for. Can you the performance reports next week? Can you carry out question 5? I'm having a hard time. The assignment. I'm having a hard time keeping up with question If you enter your information in a form, you Fill in or fill out. So see question seven. This CEO might this week. the CEO might drop in question 8, if you delay you push it back, question 9, if you cancel You call it off and question 10. I'm not sure who's presenting. We're still the details. We're still sorting out the details. So, how did you do with that quiz? Share your score in the comments and now, take up. This means to occupy or to fill. Now, we use this specifically with two different You can take up time and you can take up space they're both very commonly used. For example, I could say this meeting took the amount of time. Now, we can also use this with space. For example, I need a new couch because my or fills space. So remember you can Use this with both time and space and they're Very commonly used. Number two, is to Branch out. Now, this means to expand and we use this So let's say you're in a meeting and you're You might suggest branching out into new markets. So if you only sell in North, America, you can Branch out expand and sell For example, we need to Branch out into new Number three, this is a fun. One to jot down. Now, you would probably understand this from I jotted down a few notes. I jotted down a few notes so it's the Same thing as write down. I wrote down a few notes but is very commonly So someone might ask you, maybe your boss jot this down? And then they might give you a number, or Now, of course, not many people use pen and We take electronic notes. But if you're Colleague asks you to jot something down. You can absolutely take out your phone and your phone. Write it down in your phone. So this still applies even though we don't Much number for to carry out, this means to in a business context. For example, next week, we're carrying out What's our customer. Surveys are student surveys. We're carrying out our surveys. We're conducting them. We're performing them. So I'm just going to do the survey. That's the simplest way to say it. Next week we're doing the surveys. We're carrying out the surveys number five, So make sure you jot it down number 5 to keep Up with something, this means to make sufficient many orders and it is your job to fulfill If you fulfill this many, you've kept up with but if you fulfill this money or this many, Number of orders, then you haven't kept up You haven't made sufficient progress on now, other than orders. You can use it with your studies your reading You're filing your scheduling. You can use it with many many many other tasks Six to fill out or to fill in a form. Now. This is one that confuses a lot of students fill in the form? What's the difference? The reality is? There is no difference specifically when we're fill out an application you could also fill Asian fill out your passport. Renewal you can fill in your passport renewal There's no difference. Number 72 drop in. This is a great phrasal verb because you can context. Now, to drop in simply means to visit. So if you're talking to a friend and you're Can say, how about I drop in Saturday morning? How about I visit Saturday morning? Now in a business context, you might have to visit or you might drop in on a client, going. So you can use this in both a social and a Number eight to push back. This, Means to delay or postpone in the context So it's scheduled event like a meeting. Let's see, the meeting was scheduled for Monday Well, then push the meeting back until Wednesday Now you can use this in a social context so And it's Your 10-year wedding anniversary and the actual So you might push it back until the middle So more people can attend. Well, everyone's busy. So let's push back the party until next week So you can push back a scheduled event which So, Off. Now this means to cancel a scheduled event. So remember in our last one to push back, is simply to cancel it. But generally, when you call something off, associated with it but the problem or issue Drooling conflict and just people couldn't So let's say you are planning a conference everyone's really busy in the summer. So you might discuss it with your team and Attendance is too low so let's call it off. Let's cancel it. Now, you can also use this in a social context, But if you canceled your wedding, the most one, right? So in that context, in a social event, most Why did they call off their wedding? Why did they call off their anniversary? They're going to assume that something is And number 10 to sort out, this means to organize Fix if there's a problem. For example, I need to sort out my travel them. So, I need to decide when I'm going to travel, What hotel I'm going to use. I need to sort out my travel plans, but I and I need to fix it. For example, my flight was Canceled. So I need to sort out my travel plans. I need to fix this problem with my plans. So to sort something out you can organize If there's a problem now that you're more Let's do the exact same quiz from the beginning the first time to the second time. So let's do that. Same quiz now. Option one, this new app I downloaded. So much memory. This new app, I downloaded takes up question It it grants has out question 3. The phrasal verb used when you write something Jot down question for. Can you the performance reports next week? Can you carry out question 5? I'm having a hard time. The assignment. I'm having a hard time keeping up with question If you enter your information in a form, you Fill in or fill out. So see question seven. This CEO might this week. the CEO might drop in question 8, if you delay you push it back, question 9, if you cancel You call it off and question 10. I'm not sure who's presenting. We're still the details. We're still sorting out the details. Question 1, you're not going to paying $500 You're not going to talk me into question This sales proposal yesterday. Mariah Drew up question, 3. Good news. Because everyone we met the deadline. because everyone stepped it up, question for, to You're going to burn out question 5. That's a great point. You should At the meeting. You should bring it up. Question 6. Who do you? The most in your family. Who do you look up to question, seven, how How long do we need to stick around question You should get new ones. Your tires look really worn out. Question 9, this seller tried to So we didn't buy it. The seller tried to rip us off. Question 10, I noticed that this report our This report honed in on how did you do with Easy or difficult, share your score in the now I'll explain every phrasal verb in detail. Number one, to rip off, we use this when someone the buyer feels that the price is too high They're buying for example. I can't believe I paid $200 for that. She ripped me off. Now notice the sentence structure you rip She ripped me off another example. She told everyone that I ripped her off but So just because someone claims you rip them It's true. Number 22. We're out. We use this when something is damaged or weakened you've used it a lot. For example, I wore out my tennis shoes last If someone said that to me, I would assume Made a lot of tennis last summer, they played they became damaged from use from continually We also use this in adjective form to be worn So it would be very common to say, I need out. So, of course, our because shoes Plural and we need the plural form of the My tennis shoes are worn out. So both forms are very common. Number three to draw up. We use this when you need to prepare paperwork and agreement. A proposal generally, something that two people For example, I asked my lawyer to draw up lawyer, the papers are going to be official. So this is a perfect time to use to draw up to draw up the mortgage agreement. So that's another very official document that verb to draw up number for toad burn out. This is a phrasal verb that has gotten a lot pandemic because to burn out. This is when you feel exhausted mentally or work, stress of a situation like a pandemic or an illness. Something like that but a prolonged period. You Can be stressed out for a day. But when you burn out, it means you've had Several weeks several months, or even several For example, I burned out at my last job so through this period of prolonged stress. I burned out another example, I burned out Parents. So caregivers often experience burnout. So you can use this in a work situation or well. Number five to look up to someone. So notice we have two prepositions look up someone or you respect someone. So I could say I looked up to him like a father. So of course I admire and respect my father else. I looked up to him, I admired him like a father. Another example, I really look up to my boss. So you admire your boss, you respect your So you can use this in a work situation. You can look up to people You can use this in a social situation of You can have many different people in your Number 6. It's a step up. Now, that's the phrasal verb, but we most it up. Notice that it, it's very important to step This simply means to work harder or two. Try harder. Now, you can say we need to step it up if So you have this deadline, you need to work So it's the same as saying we need to work If we're going to meet the deadline, Step Now, what is this it in the expression? Well, the it would represent work or effort. We need to step up our Our work. We need to step up our effort. Step it up. I encourage you to use it that way, step it We have a really common expression with this a notch, step it up a notch. If you look at a dial, a notch is one move So it represents a little bit, a small amount. Step It Up on Notch, it's just like saying, So that's just a common expression. You need to step it up a notch. If you want to meet the deadline so you can It's very common or you can use it without On this is another to preposition phrasal We have hone in on hone in on something. And this means to really Focus on something to put all your attention For example, if we want to get more customers, owners. So maybe right now you're not being very specific want to hone in on one specific segment of So you're going to focus on them, you're going Another example for the presentation we should So maybe you're a global company and you have But for this specific presentation, you're world South America. Now, many native speakers native speakers This speaker is mistakenly say home in awn. We need to home in on, and that's because Holman and hone, what's that? It's not really used very much but everybody The expression is not home in on the expression So make sure you get that both in pronunciation. Ation home and in spelling as well. And if you hear a native speaker, say home is a must know phrasal verb to bring up. And this is when you begin a discussion on a staff meeting, it would be very common for to say, before we end the meeting does One have anything to bring up? Does anyone have a specific topic? They want to discuss. Does anyone have anything to bring up? Or after the meeting? You might tell another colleague. I didn't have a chance to bring up the marketing this specific topic, the marketing proposal, Number nine to talk into To, and the sentence structure is to talk convince someone to do something. For example, she talked me into helping her So, when someone uses this, oh, she talked It gives you the impression that the person somebody can. Convince them but please I really need your I'll buy pizza or maybe you could say my team staff meeting. So notice I use bring up discuss a specific The bonus. My team talked me into bringing up the bonus a little bit of a sensitive issue. And Buddy wants to do it, but your team convinced So they talked you into it. And number 10 to stick around. This is a must use phrasal verb. You can use it in a social setting or a professional a location for a period of time. So let's say you're at this beautiful park After an hour or so, your friend has to leave and you say no I'm going to stick around a in a specific location the park for a period It is unknown, how long you'll stay? That doesn't really matter. It's just the fact you're going to stay, I'm It's such a beautiful day, I'm going to stick Now, you can also use this in the - I can't although it's a beautiful day. I can't stick around very long. I have a meeting to get back to now that you're Let's do that same quiz again. So here are the questions you need to choose Best completes the sentence here. Are the questions. Hit pause now. Now, complete the quiz and whenever you're So go ahead and hit pause now. Welcome back. So how did you do on this quiz? Let's find out. Here are the answers. So hit, pause review the answers and whenever video. Now, keep expanding your vocabulary with this guide on how to speak English, fluently, and Easy steps, you can get it for my website next lesson.