(Please set the subtitles in your language) Hi! all Today I'll show you a video of organizing my kitchen. I often felt heavy and cumbersome whenever I took the rice cooker off the shelf. I recently found an adhesive rail shelf. This is easy to install without having to nail it to the furniture. I can attach this to any shelf with adhesive tape. And I can add as many as I need. The rails also run smoothly. Now it's easier for me to take out my rice cooker. And this goes well with my white shelves. I keep cooking foil and plastic wrap in a drawer. Even though I use them very often, I can't take them out. Because the shapes and sizes are all different, it looks a bit messy. This is a cooking foil case with a very simple design. Built-in cutter allows for easy cutting. It also has a magnet so I can stick it wherever I want. The inside of my drawer looks cleaner too. It opens automatically when I tilt the bottle. It's a bit heavy because it's made of glass. However, the bottle is large so it is easy to clean. It's best to be able to clean the inside of spice bottles, no matter what! Sometimes I buy large-capacity oils, but they are so heavy to use. This time, while filming, I filled the oil too much. Haha. But I usually put a very small amount in a bottle. Sometimes when cooking, it feels cumbersome to quickly open and close the bottle cap. So I think bottles that open and close automatically like this are useful. The bottle design makes it look pretty too! The cooking table in my kitchen has completely open shelves. So I'm always careful not to make this place look messy. I have a lot of things neatly organized here. However, it is a bit cumbersome to take out items stored deep inside. It's more convenient to spread things out rather than stack them, but my shelves are narrow. I think perfect organization is when I can easily find and get things out. I'm already using a few shelves, but I'll organize them more tightly this time. Among the shelves I've used, IKEA shelves are the widest and strongest. I'm going to add more shelves to free up space. I try to spread out the cooking utensils here as much as possible without stacking them on top of each other. Gathering stainless steel in one section makes it look neater. These are another versions of the same basket as in the last video for organization. It's good to store small cooking utensils here. Last time I had white baskets, but this time I chose black baskets. I keep small containers in a basket so they are easy to take out and use. The green colored baskets are also very cute. I created empty space by getting rid of things I don't use often. And I used stainless steel holders to organize various oven pans. It'll be very convenient to take out the oven pan. I guess my shelves have probably had about 20% more storage capacity. This is my grocery storage area. I also need a change in my food storage space too. This is a long storage basket that fits into deep cabinet. These two baskets fit perfectly under the IKEA shelf. Now, let's put it into the baskets. It's also a good idea to discard box packaging and reduce size. I put ramen, curry, etc. here. I also use the storage boxes I used previously. I divided the space with shelves and started arranging baskets. All baskets are white, so it looks very clean. My kitchen has no place to hang cooking utensils. Since it is a rented house, it is difficult to drill holes or glue on the tile wall. So I decided to attach magnetic hooks to the ventilation hood. Magnetic hooks are easy to remove and move. I arranged the hanging tools as simply as possible so they wouldn't look messy. All the scissors in my house are Fiskars. But why didn't I think of using Fiskars as kitchen scissors until now? I love Fiskars scissors for their cutting power as well as their pretty design. This is a washing brush used before using the dishwashing machine. I use it well because I can replace only the dirty brush with a new one. This dries well if I hang it up. I always stock up on refillable brushes. When I do housework, I sometimes have thoughts like this. 'Why am I even doing such a trivial thing right now?' In particular, this is the thought that comes to mind every time I cut dishwashing detergent in half. Hahaha! But in the end, I always feel better when I see my clean and well-organized kitchen. And I'm so glad every time I discover a new item that makes life easier. I'm even more proud if I have the housekeeping know-how I've experienced. 10 years ago, when I first started buying household items just for myself, The first thing I purchased was an expensive and stylish coffee bean hand mill. At that time, I didn't know much about easy and efficient household chores. But now, I slightly regret the time I spent wasting my energy grinding coffee beans. The electric grinder I recently got gave me convenience. Like this, today, I have become a little more skillful. And now I can enjoy kitchen work more. I hope you enjoyed my story about kitchen organization. Thank you for watching this video until the end.