A woman can be beautiful and she but none of it will matter if she And today, ladies, I'm gonna give you those 10 tips on So let's dive into tip number one. I think it says something about those word. They want to prove a point. They want to really show They wanna take their revenge. People like that with big egos classy women are not toxic. Classy They don't really have a strong They're able to validate themselves. They don't need to always be right their value by any means. How do you handle a situation You can have an argument You can have a heated discussion as I hear what you're saying, and we might This is my position, and it's okay to think differently but make sure your intonation and not aggressive. So something that gives away class things. A classy woman, she's not obsessed with getting as she is not greedy. As an example, she would not empty the hotel room where items and maybe even take the But then we have other examples. Those who go to events and really as they can, they will get a second just because it's for free. And then you have those who make it a whenever they go out I can understand if one forgets their a man. I think that's a little bit okay. But if you go out with your friends and Oh, I'm so sorry, That's not a good look. And classy women are not cheap. I think many of you can agree with sometimes turn a little bit sour. But one thing that classy they try not to borrow money But when they are borrowing they really make sure that they It makes it become maybe even an issue try to stay away from that. And make sure you really handle it with class. Is it classy to drink alcohol? I think it depends on how because a lady can drink a lot and and that's fine. In fact, they drink alcohol and it's perfectly when you become a bad drunk, and unfortunately some people just have liquor very well. they do all kinds of crazy things and classy women. A woman can be beautiful and a but if she start acting crazy person wearing some fantastic then that will ruin everything. Then it doesn't matter how much your in front of the mirror. So as a classy woman, you need to or at least how much of it so that you behave properly. And It took me years and years drinking like a true lady. In fact, I remember this one time when, I went on a date and I hadn't eaten a I wanted to wear this nice tight dress So I thought it was an incredible the whole day. So I arrived at the maybe two or three glasses And what happened was that I was so wasted, I excused myself, went to the bathroom and I was a little And then I ended up passing out on let me tell you one thing. This has and I share more about that LevelUpSecret.com because this is a private and want to make public. So I'm only sharing it with LevelUpSecret.com because you're gonna learn a lot about that I corrected, and then I ended up having So I want to share that with don't miss because soon this video is I didn't end up seeing him again either myself, ladies. So don't try classy and not so classy ways of And a classy woman, she knows how not to be annoying in the message. As an example, Hi, send, how are you? Send, Do you like this dress better? Do you prefer this dress? Send. What do you think? Send. I would personally end my relationship And then we have that person who forgets or you know, when you just write in all big letters But you need to think about that people aggressive towards them. Oh, there's another one that really we all know typos happen but there are many people who of not correcting their typos. They literally just leave So when you receive a you end up being confused. A similar thing is something that I agree with. I know that in America they use a lot of that everyone uses in other countries. So then there are some people who abbreviations and think that people world what that means. Classy women are not too bothered I want to tell you one thing, that there The real-life type of copycat that experienced at some point, maybe you have someone right now in everything that you do. The first That is called we get inspired Meaning let's say, you So you go and you get the same nail happen to like the color. But I think the problem becomes when things. You cut your hair that person cuts their hair You buy a certain dress, that person goes out and buys the exact I think is one thing, but I don't understand when people And for me, that feels So whenever people are copying me, I really do take it as a big That means that I am a trendsetter. You have probably heard me we are not desperate. And it's true. A classy But a classy woman is also not I've been there, you've been We have at some point obsessed or who knows, maybe you are sitting I want to really encourage you behavior of yours. But we also have these like literally hanging Why he hasn't called me yet? When is he gonna call me? And you're sitting there obsessively situation. So you end up maybe you calling your friend asking And then maybe you're calling someone that everyone is now involved 4 hours to answer your But then of course we have other plans instantly if he wants to although you already have but it doesn't matter because you're ready come running to him just because he wants to see you. The whole point, ladies, is that we need to be busy with our we need to have interest. And we cannot prioritize because I understand you don't wanna be We wanna be coupled up with someone We wanna be loved and all those things. But you cannot sacrifice yourself and yourself. Your priority should always be I'm sure you ladies pay but I'm not just talking about I'm also talking about some things that You probably know that but not just because she has And not because she but also because she pays that, believe it or not, not And I'm talking about some but they're not always common let's say you have a top that you wore a the wash and you didn't air it. So there is perhaps a little that sweater and you perhaps You would rewear that sweater. And let's say that top Have you ever smelled It does not smell good. And of course a classy woman would not would she be re-wearing That's just a no no. She would never take that risk The next point might differ from And I am aware that I come from a polite when they're she does show her true because she would never push people to the side or really be get ahead. Now, let's say you have to get on a train and really a particular queue. Certainly you can make sure you progress in the but you wouldn't, let's say, step on people just to get ahead or instantly. You would be respecting other people Last but not least, point number 10, classy women are subscribed to the make sure you hit this button And in my next video, 10 things we're gonna go through more things that wanna be classy and elegant,