- I can't believe we're but it's that time of for Black Friday and holiday what we should put on our Santa wishlist. Now if you're anything like dominated with kitchen gadgets, all of my favorite things. And since I know you're what all of my favorites are I put together a Holiday so make sure you check that out. But today I wanted to deep dive into my cookware specifically I use the most, why I love investing in or not investing in. I should also mention that by any of the brands that you're I'm just sharing what I truly So let's jump right in. My All-Clad pots and my workhorse cookware in on a daily basis for from frying eggs to sauteing The set you see me use is the same set that I almost 20 years ago and as it was back then, as shiny and clean. But that's okay because lovingly used in thousands The great thing about All-Clad durable, provides uniform and it doesn't react with And while it's not cheap, last a lifetime so they're I originally bought an All-Clad set which included various but you can also buy how many people you cook for and create your own set. Either way, just know that stainless steel cookware When it comes to enameled a hard time choosing between I just love them both from both brands so don't Enameled cast iron is durable In fact most of the time I And unlike regular cast iron, enameled cast iron doesn't I use my enameled cast iron most often in the fall and winter or braise meat, and it can easily transfer from the stove top to the oven If you take good care of these pieces they can certainly last a life time so they're worth the investment. Simple non-enameled to an older time and that's for over a thousand years. Cast iron is sustainable. It's probably the most durable It's inexpensive and it's It may take a bit longer to heat up but when it does come to temperature it can maintain that heat perfectly. And when it comes to searing a steak or getting crispy chicken But the best part about cast iron is that it's the original nonstick cookware. A properly seasoned cast eggs, meat, and pretty much You do have to be a little so I recommend enameled for things like shakshouka. But with how cheap cast iron pans are it definitely makes sense to have a couple pieces in your kitchen. When it comes to baking and both glass and ceramic pans in my kitchen. Brands like Pyrex and they don't release any into your food, and they're you don't cause any rapid I use these all the time for casseroles and baking chicken breasts straight from the oven So I definitely recommend of these key pieces in All right, I've left this one to last because many of you know of nonstick cookware due to But, nonetheless I continue for my recommendations on so here is my honest opinion. Nonstick cookware pans Those coated with polytetrafluoroethylene, better known as PTFE, and PTFE is the classic that you might know better as Teflon, and ceramic pans are or diamond coated pans. Historically PTFE pans also called PFOA, but this was and affect growth development and reproduction among other things. So for several years now, PFOA which is good, but that for another called GenX the long-term ramifications of it. The problem with PTFE cookware the nonstick coating can toxic fumes and chemicals And if the surface coating it can also release toxic So you might be thinking, &quot;Well ceramic pans must Well, not so fast. Ceramic pans might be green and healthy, but the actually doesn't last as long as PTFE. The big gray area with ceramic nanoparticles which can enter our cells and there's just not enough research or scientific studies the potential adverse effects So for all of those reasons but I also like to keep things real and I do have a couple of pieces But I just use them very infrequently. But if you are gonna use nonstick, here are my three biggest tips on how to use them most safely. First, always cook on low or medium and never use a high temperature. Second, always use wood so that you don't damage And third, replace your nonstick or as soon as you see the Because nonstick pans are not I don't recommend with stainless steel bottoms. It's just not worth the money. The ones I have, which are Ballarini pans have remained perfectly nonstick and so far there's no sign of But again, I'm super careful with them. So whether you choose PTFE from Ballarini, Zwilling, or any of the other brands takeaway is that nonstick as the workhorse cookware in your kitchen. There are just far too many and cost effective options that will last a lifetime. I should also mention that called Xtrema that's been but I tried this pan for several weeks and personally I was not a fan of it. I'll tell you why I wasn't a fan or what I just didn't love Lastly, when it comes to utensils, I do have a couple of favorites. I love, love, these and spatulas from Crate &amp; Barrel. I've had them for at least ten years now and they're super strong and durable. They never bend or warp no matter how much I also love my wood spatulas and I'll link all of these So if you're going to invest I highly recommend you Le Creuset and Lodge Cast some extra glassware and ceramic pieces. And if you do decide to the one I have used and I hope you guys enjoyed and if there's anything else you'd like to see my recommendations let me know in the comments below. I hope you have a wonderful Thanksgiving, eat lots of delicious food in a couple of weeks.