So I would like to discuss But first of all, I'd like to ask you Can you see my hand? Yes, raise your hand. Audience: Yes. Yongey Mingyur Rinpoche: Audience: Yes. YMR: Yes? Great. That is the meditation. So, finished. My TED Talk is finished. (Laughter and applause) Of course, I'm just kidding. But in a way that is true. Why? What we call the essence And what is awareness? Knows what you are thinking, feeling, doing, seeing, hearing. That's all. So actually meditation is very easy, but many people find it difficult. Why? There are two misunderstandings So the first is many people think stop thinking, concentration. Ah. (Laughter) Shh! I'm meditating, keep quiet. (Laughter) So the more, when you try to stop thinking what happens, you will think more. So we will do a small experiment, OK? Now, please don't think about pizza. (Laughter) No pizza. No pizza. What happened? Did you think about pizza or not? Yes, raise your hand. (Laughter) I know. (Laughter) Actually, we don't need to stop thinking. We just need to connect with awareness. And another misunderstanding is what we call "blissing out." Looking for peace, calm, joy, relax. (Laughter) The more you look for relax, then peace, calm, joy, relax run away. So ... Let me share [with] you my own experience. When I was young, I had panic attacks. Although I was born right in the middle the area, the village, wonderful, but panic followed me like a shadow. And I have so much fear [of] strangers, And lot of storms thunderstorm, snowstorm. These storms drive me crazy. And when I was nine years old, I asked my father to teach me meditation. Luckily, he was a great And the first thing what he said is, &quot;Don't try to fight with the panic. Don't try to get rid of panic.&quot; &quot;And actually,&quot; he said, Awareness is like sky in the mountain, and the panic is like storm And no matter how strong a storm is, it doesn't change the nature of sky. So sky is always present, pure, calm. Similarly, our fundamental quality is always present, pure, calm. But the problem is we don't know what we see, only a thought, emotion, that's all. So he said, there are three steps The first one, we have to use an object. Support, to connect with awareness. So this is one of my first that I learned from my father. So you can join and you can relax If you cannot relax, also OK, allowed. (Laughter) And close your eyes, (Ding) And when you hear the sound, through ear and mind together ... (Ding) That is the meditation. And let panic come and go. Let pizza come and go. (Ding) And maybe two pizzas, As long as you remember the sound, you can have pizza. (Ding) (Ding) (Ding) OK, how was it? Did you hear the sound? Yes, raise your hand. Great. That is the meditation. Very easy. Just hear, that's all. You don't have to do anything. So if panic comes, Just listen to sound. Monkey mind comes blah, blah, blah. Let it come and go, just listen to sound. So I did that. But I had a big problem. The problem is lazy. (Laughter) I'm lazy boy, I love but I don't like the practice So on and off like that for five years. When I was 13 years old in India, there's traditional three-year I thought I should join this And I join. The first month, wonderful, no lazy. Second month, lazy come back. (Laughter) Now what happened? My lazy and my panic, (Laughter) The life in the retreat becomes disaster. And I thought I should leave. But I feel embarrassed to leave because I told all my childhood friends I don't want to lose my face. But if I stay, almost three years to go. Then I thought, what should I do? In the end, I decided to learn So now we have actually, we can meditate everywhere, anytime with anything. So you can meditate with panic. How do you do that? Just like listen to sound, when you listen to sound, sound becomes support for your meditation. Now you're going to watch panic. If you see the panic, great. What we call, when you see the river, When you see the mountain, So now awareness becomes more than panic. More than depression, stress. Monkey mind, whatever. Let them come, let them go. So that is the first benefit there's a wisdom comes. So when you look at the panic, panic is not solid stone anymore. Panic becomes pieces. Sensation here, frightening image, And if you take one of these away, So what I call panic looks like a piece of rock Then three, what I call like self-kind, self-love, You let panic come and go, that's the real acceptance, isn't it? So three in one: awareness, love and compassion, wisdom. Sometimes what I call (Laughter) Big deal, right? And all this because of panic. So now panic becomes your teacher, your best friend. So I did this practice and in the end, me and my panic become very good friends. And few weeks later, panic is gone. I miss my friend. And I finished my retreat, And after that I have been eager to share So I taught meditation many places, wrote three books, become bestseller, and then students and become And what happened? Kind of new ego emerged within me. I thought, oh, Then I decided to do what we call wandering retreat. Meaning you leave everything behind, go on the street with nothing. So I decided to do that. In 2011, I left my monastery, my students, my wonderful cozy bed. Everything, and got on street and that finished within a few weeks. Now I have to beg for food. And I got food poisoning. Vomiting, diarrhea. I'm alone on the street, now I'm going to die. Then I thought, what should I do? So now we have the third step, what we call open awareness meditation. Awareness, be with itself. Sky, be with itself. Now, no need to have support. Just be awareness itself. I did that practice. Then what happened? My body become decayed, I cannot see, I cannot hear. But my mind becomes so present, beyond free. And I was in that state for a few hours. Luckily, I didn't die, I come back. So when I come back, When I look at a tree, And the wind blows to my face And the rest of my retreat went very well. I learned a lot from my retreat. So I like to share this open but it is very difficult to explain. But I want to do something drama. And this is what I learned from my father. So what we call, this mala blah, blah, blah, yada yada. And the open awareness meditation Just be. That's all, and you don't The sense of presence, Be free. Be present. Thank you very much. (Applause)