Grand Teton National Park The perfect playground It may look fun... (chattering) ...but this family is here They need to find access ...and the fish below. The Snake River provides during the winter months. Cutthroat trout. Catching them is easy. Keeping them is the hard part. Sneaky scavengers It's a constant dance in Grand Teton National Park. Shrouded by a veil of white, winter dazzles. Oxbow Bend, an iconic part rarely freezes entirely. It's a favorite denning for the otter family. But they're not the only ones In the right conditions, coyotes can sniff out food An otter makes a tasty treat. Coyotes may be wily... ...but these otters They bust out the back door... and the coyote When the coast is clear, it's back to business. Above or below water, their fur keeps them toasty Rolling in snow Grand Teton for otters to keep It snows here for For the otters, There's plenty to go around. Grand Teton National Park is a 310,000-acre The park is named a proud ice maiden whose snowcapped peaks The Teton Range spends over half the year Water evaporates traveling uninterrupted until clouds come crashing where they release More than 40 feet can (grumbling) It's this volume of snow that makes Grand Teton This red fox is perfectly suited Taking a canine catnap she uses her bushy tail sleeping like this, even during Today the sun is shining, and a vole enjoys It doesn't go unnoticed. The vole seeks refuge in a network But out of sight The fox's hearing Tilting her head she zones in on the target. No luck this time. But Grand Teton provides Bingo! For the other residents, Some are skating on thin ice. (crack) (bear groans) Cold paws are for his first taste of Finding food (groaning) And hungry grizzlies are (grumbling) ...including this new mom, who hasn't eaten (growling) This multi-tasking mom (snorting) ...and has been nursing for three months. All without eating It's cost her a third She needs to find food fast. Easier said than done (grumbling) Her rich milk has and now she's running on empty. (squealing) The cubs are naive to the But it's not all fun and games. (growling) Male grizzlies emerged gaining a head start (bird calling) They will kill young cubs Mom does her best The cubs are none the wiser. So focused on exploring, they drift off from Mom... who's busy searching As they wander further away, they head Male grizzlies The weather here It's their very first spring, and they have no idea in a Grand Teton blizzard. The cubs are completely alone. (sniffing) Mom's senses go into overdrive. It's the first time She searches on. Their chance is virtually zero. (squawking) But then the cubs spot her Thankfully, and hopefully a lesson learned. Mom can nurse her cubs During that time, everything there is to know Their personal tour guide... in Grand Teton National Park. (cub moaning) As the spring thaw begins, treasures (dripping) (birds chirping) Every year, trigger the snow Perhaps on the Grand Teton calendar. It's also the signal to return to these lands. Hunter-gatherers came at least 11,000 years ago. Their pattern of leaving this and returning to reap has been followed by Gros Ventre, Blackfoot, for thousands of years. But the Jackson elk herd have been doing this (bugling) Their migration is driven revealing the greening The elk might arrive and July the next, depending on the timing The process releases gushing down the mountains, where it feeds a source of life, providing fresh water ...including a gathering of found in these waters Each year they gather here This female, known as a hen, is getting ready for just that. She digs a nest, called a redd, turning on her side and flexing This attracts who chase each other off and vie for top spot. The process of digging Finally, when the water she releases ...triggering a mad dash in the battle The hen keeps her eggs safe, burying them under gravel. (pebbles rattling) For this new generation survival began months earlier in the snowy mountain slopes Larger snowpack years translate into huge quantities This water flushes away and provides an oxygen boost The result? An improved spawning habitat and ultimately, better fishing Good news for who come to the park The snowmelt creates for another creature to thrive. The pilose crayfish. Living between the logs their hard work has and a hiding place This premium spot attracts Raising his claws, he tries who responds defiantly What we have here But crayfish are adept Some grow large claws that are actually weaker so bigger There's only one way The big guy wasn't The battle wasn't in vain. Crayfish are clever. They recognize and remember If this intruder tries again, His opponent retreats. The winner holds on The Snake River thanks to some friends Whitebark pine, the rooftop of Grand Teton, plays a leading role in helping By capturing snowdrifts they slow the melting snow, which feeds the Snake River well into summer. (water rushing) When the blanket of snow the diverse range of habitats that make up are finally revealed. The mountains stand over the rich landscape below. This unique blend of habitats catches a special eye. (humming) Hummingbirds travel nearly 2,000 miles away, for the perfect found here in The males normally arrive first which they defend from rivals. It's a spot worth (humming) ...filled with which means a better chance This female won't just She considers in her suitor's territory. Plentiful food sources Hummingbirds eat up to twelve in nectar daily. They collect pollen while And with each new meal, the birds pollinate ensuring a future Hummingbirds time their arrival with the park's ...traveling thousands to make the most of But confined to spending their whole lives in just a few square miles is one animal whose life Only the toughest, bravest, some might say live up here in this (chirp) Small but mighty. (chirp) Blink, and you'll miss it. An American pika. She may look like a tan but this rabbit relative At around 10,000 feet, the treeless slopes are one of the most to live in the park. But this pile of rubble, is prime pika real estate. Formed from chunks of rock that fell off the top it contains in North America. (chirp) To her, it's home. She hunkered down here patiently waiting Now summer's here, and it's time to get to work. She gathers her favorite As the saying goes, &quot;Make hay And that's exactly She works for hundreds of hours gathering foliage to be dried And when you're this focused it's easy to miss who lurk up here. (calling) But there is safety in numbers. (calling) This neighborhood watch is the secret enabling each pika The summers are fleeting and even shorter (bear groans) In the forest, mama bear is teaching her cubs dining out. She knows how to find food in almost every habitat Her powerful nose, 2,000 times has detected dinner. Ants, a protein rich treat. She extracts them easily, Her cubs give it a try... ...but they don't quite They learn first-hand not to bite off On the Snake River, biting and chewing for a beaver feasting on The Snake River is not only in the park but across regions Its protection here is crucial (low growling) ...including arguably the most Meet 399. This is no ordinary bear. At 26 years old, she's the grandmother It's the height of summer, and, lucky for her cubs, this veteran for a refreshing dip. It's rare to have four cubs... (growling) ...and totally unique Dubbed &quot;Queen of the Tetons&quot; this bear is famed for having She's a big part of in Grand Teton National Park. They enjoy protection because of the varied (growling) Numbers have increased from 136 to over 700 bears since the mid-1970s. One of the secrets is to eat all summer long. This mama and her cubs need to gain enough weight Grass may seem like but summer's the perfect time for grazing There are over 100 species found in every single habitat, and animals throughout The name of the Shoshone tribe, who were among the early comes from sosoni, a type of high-growing grass. As summer draws to a close, 399 will show her cubs making the most She may be Queen of the Tetons, but she knows how to eat Apart from winter, seasons don't last long As the air turns crisp, a certain magic takes hold (geese honking) But there's more to than meets the eye. Green leaves are the trees' All summer long, chlorophyll converts into sugars to feed the tree. As the days shorten the leaves stop The green chlorophyll ...revealing the yellows What we know as is actually nature's most It's less of a trash disposal and more of As the leaves change color, the vital nutrients and sent to where they are stored The fall colors bring tourists This is arguably to capture its famous views. But something else is bringing visitors to Grand Teton. Something that can't As fall colors peak, a mysterious sound (bugling) (echoing) (bugling) A bull elk... (bugling) ...bugling for his future. And it's not just one. (bugling) Every bull wanting to mate (bugling) Some bulls bugle so much, they lose their voices. (bugling) It's an essential part of their annual mating ritual and the language of love This master bull into the hearts of a harem. Now he has to until they're ready to mate. Easier said than done when you're threatened by (distant bugling) Fail now, and he'll forfeit and his future. He has to prove his worth. This could be their (bugling) His serenade turns silent. This bugle is different. It's a call to battle. (bugling) Dawn brings a new day (distant bugling) ...and fresh hope (birds chirping) The master bull hangs on (bugling) But this rival has sparked The master bull needs to rally (bugling) They're nearing estrus, a fertile window If he loses them now, mating rights pass Her loyalty lies (bugling) ...for now. (bugling) But dissenting voices The tensions reach fever pitch. (bugling) The battle of the bugles The rut is on. 2,000 pounds of flesh, locked in a battle of The rival flees, with nothing more The winner takes It will be his offspring roaming Grand Teton After mating, the lucky guy will resume The park provides to recharge and refuel... (snorting) ...as the grip of winter (bugling) He's not the only one A Clark's nutcracker harvesting seeds A special pouch stores up to to be buried an insurance policy Squirrels cache But thieving bears can (chattering) At over 50% fat, whitebark pine seeds to fatten up for the winter, and in Grand Teton ...seasons change (bird chirping) Soon, the rich treasures will be buried once again. The first snowfall is a signal to North America's now. The Snake River at dawn. The early snows but soon this water And this female knows better With the rut over, she's resumed leadership The master bull hangs back, His job is done. (bugling) The pregnant females now face She knows they need or risk starving to death. It's a journey she has taken Now she shows for the very first time. The herd sticks together, taking comfort from their companions make. The water is shallow at this time of year; the gushing torrents a distant memory. The Shoshone people And just as generations of elk their unborn calves for years to come. Their departure is a chance When they return in spring, the park's protection will and bountiful food (otters chattering) As winter takes hold, some opt to stay and make the best of things. Temperatures drop, and stretches are starting to freeze. The otter family to keep them fed Blessed with they are intrepid explorers. Even when this water they won't give up the search. They are entirely dependent for the duration of winter. And as long as you know the park will provide. Grand Teton National Park will now sit under snow Knowledge is crucial 399 may be a senior citizen, but this wise old bear in this wintery wilderness. As she heads into hibernation, this could be the last time she looks upon the land No one knows how many But one thing is certain-- her knowledge of this land will live on through In return, Grand Teton National Park will provide for just as its done for the generations of before them. Captioned by