- [Jared] Most scales they use electricity to determine What I'm interested in is these sometimes called spring scales. No batteries required here. In this video, we'll take to see how they work on the inside. (upbeat music) The idea of using springs in a scale has been around for about 200 years now. This one is called a floor scale and this one is called a hanging scale. So let's spring right and we'll start with the hanging scale. These are commonly used The more weight or the harder the more that the red Take away the weight and the Let's take it apart and The first thing you'll notice are two large springs on the inside. They're hooked onto the top piece, which is bolted to the frame of the scale. In the center, we have the gear system. This piece is called the rack. Hidden inside of here is As the rack goes back and forth, The rack is bolted to the So when the springs go down, the rack goes down too, There's another tiny spring This ensures that we have good The center of the gear goes out and pokes through the center of the dial so that we can attach the red pointer. Now, as the scale is pulled which moves the rack, turns the which then shows how Now, may happen that the red It's not pointing directly at zero when there's nothing on the scale. This might happen when you In this case, we need That's the job of the calibration knob, also known as a zeroing screw. You can see that it goes all the way through and These two are called the pivot plates. They both have a hole in the middle which is where they attach. As you spin the calibration knob, it will push against So as you turn the knob, the whole spring assembly which will just barely Once it's right at zero, then you are ready to The reason that a scale like this works is because of something It's the relationship you pull on a spring versus So just for an example, let's put a one kilogram It stretches one centimeter. Okay, now let's double the weight. Now it stretches two centimeters. For each extra kilogram, the spring stretches another centimeter. If you put it on a graph, then it's a straight line, or in other words, it's This means it's predictable. We can now use the spring to determine the weight of an object, figure out how far the spring stretches, which will then tell us For this spring, the numbers are easy. One kilogram for every one centimeter. But maybe you've got This one takes five kilograms to stretch it only one centimeter. Maybe you've got a really flexible spring. It takes barely any weight at all to stretch it one centimeter. When you study Hooke's you might see an equation The K is how stiff the spring is, x is how far the spring is stretched, which results in a downward force or how heavy the object must be. Hooke's Law only works Normally, you take the and the spring goes back However, if you put a very you will probably stretch that it won't go back. You've reached the elastic limit, and Hooke's Law no longer works. This spring is somewhat So keep that in mind, it is possible to break these scales. With the hanging scale, there's two springs in Since we know how stiff they are, we can use how far they which then tells us how Now let's take a look at the floor scale. Two tiny springs, hold it all together. It's easiest to unhook it from the bottom. The front cover comes off and The big difference here is that instead of a red this time the whole dial actually moves while the red pointer is stationary. The dial is attached with a rack moving across it. This of course is very similar to the hanging scale that we saw earlier. The end of the rack is which pulls it towards the edge. Things get interesting at We've got a lever that It's attached to the rack, and remember, the rack is The only thing stopping it is another metal plate right beneath it. This plate is held up by our main spring. There's only one of them this time, and it's quite a bit smaller. Our spring is still hanging but the end of it is When the plate goes down, This also means the lever The metal plate is pressed down by four metal bars that two long ones and two shorter ones that hang right beneath it. All four of the bars also rest on the edges of the scale case. The lid to the scale has Each of these supports rests on one of the When you stand on the scale, your weight is distributed over to the metal plate, which moves down and stretches the spring, allows the lever to rotate, which then rotates the No matter where you stand on the scale, your weight gets distributed which uses Hooke's Law Just like with the hanging scale, this one may need to be The calibration dial is down here. There's two parts to this, and the top, which fits inside of it. Notice the screw threads around the side. When you spin the bottom, This moves the resting which will then ripple through and affect where the dial is when there's My name's Jared. I make 3D animations on how things work. If you enjoyed this video, hit that subscribe button and the bell so you're notified when Thanks for watching, and (upbeat music)