In July of 2022, just a few months Victoria and I made our way and started cycling south with no idea the adventure we were in for. Hey! I think we should stop as soon as we see a good house though I'm stuck Vamos! Man, you look like a vagabond The route we had planned on going is a lot more dangerous than we thought it would be. The ultimate dream was to cycle from Alaska to Argentina, the entire length of the Americas. Well, at least that was my dream. Victoria hadn't owned a bike so she didn't yet know And since she was fairly out of practice, slowly building up strength I cannot feel my legs and after a lot of blood, sweat and tears, so we hitchhiked up to Deadhorse, the end of the road and set off South. Our first section would be two weeks 512 miles from the Arctic Ocean, snaking it's way through some of the most remote and challenging wilderness on Earth. An ambitious choice for Victoria's but she was handling it like a pro. How is the English? Caterpillar Caterpillow? Caterpillar Catahpillah? Caterpillar Caterpillow. I'm so glad we're doing this. We were carrying enough food and after seven days which is basically just a small restaurant But it was a great In week two, we were starting to get into the swing of things, and as we crossed the Arctic Circle, our legs were strengthening up for these huge, huge climbs Happy birthday... is that... is that half of a muffin? Don't worry about that part. Did you eat this muffin? Happy birthday... Alaska is grizzly bear territory, so we hung our food every night to try and keep the bears away from our tent. So far we hadn't seen any for ourselves, but that wouldn't be the case for long. You're looking at two new official Dalton Highway survivors. Completing the Dalton Highway was a huge confidence boost. We might actually be able We took our newfound confidence south because we knew we couldn't leave Alaska without checking out Denali National Park. We ended up pushing our bikes five miles up a braided riverbed to get around But then we had the entire other What we found was truly wild landscapes and it felt a bit like exploring a national park Whoa. Victoria's just spotted what we think could be an incredible home for the night. Yes! We got super lucky finding and we were glad we had it because the next morning Hey! Get back go on Yeah, go on. Satisfied with our Alaska experience, and with winter on the way, we set our sights east towards Canada along the stunning Denali Highway. We'd been on the road for nearly a month, and Victoria was now a seasoned Traveling like this means most of the time. And I was so impressed with how Being together made those difficult moments and I didn't want to jinx it, but I was really hoping Good morning, sunshine! So we've had nothing but rain for the last week But this side... absolutely gorgeous. We enjoyed some glorious sunshine but it was time to get a move on into Canada as winter wouldn't be waiting up for us. Canadian border is in about a mile. We rode the Alaska Highway into the Yukon just as the autumn colors were starting to come through, and it was pretty stunning. So cool! It was now September and things were starting But fortunately we met Wally, some warm gloves for the road ahead. Thank you so much, thats so kind Well here, I'll just go like that, if it helps They're really, really into comic con. -A steamer, right? $3.50 You are not holding that right. How is it? Very good! In Whitehorse, we picked up some warmer clothes for the cold weather to come and our timing was pretty spot on. Everything is frozen this is definitely the coldest it's been Show me your gloves Oh, thanks to Wally. Yes It was time to make some miles south so we crossed into the province of British Columbia and headed down the remote Cassiar Highway. This is now officially the Cassiar Highway. You need to be very, very safe, but you can be safe and fashion at the same time. That is a porcupine. It's raining again. Oh my gosh! It's coming So beautiful man! So beautiful. Go! Go on, go! That's right, go on That's the first time I've ever had to take Quite cool man so good It was starting to become clear that we weren't going to be able to outrun winter, so we decided to make the most and make a short detour to the coast But when we woke up the next morning, instead of the stunning view we were hoping for, we were met with a downpour. We made our way back up to the Cassiar and continued on South when Victoria had a decision to make. What have you decided? We said that I couldn't decide if I want to go until 3 months of riding. I needed to see for myself if I like it or not and I love it. So I decided today three months I'm going to Argentina. Are you crying? And that was that, we were now in this together But little did we know, we were about to face our most challenging test yet. With the first snow of the season, Winter had finally caught up with us and almost immediately, So last night was -5c (23f) I believe felt like it could have been lower. I was fine, but Victoria didn't sleep all night and she was bundled up in all her layers, sleeping bag, sleeping bag liner. And it's only going to get colder We found ourselves but after three months of cycling, But that's when something magic happened. Wet and shivering in Fraser Lake, we were invited into Autumn Services office who let us stay the night. And then they found Katryna, Chris And then they were able to find Katie Thank you so much! Thank you guys, We got a real taste of the world and after receiving all of this incredible support, we knew we couldn't give up. But with temperatures it was time to put our resilience In around eight days, it drops to -19 Celsius (-2.2f) Which is temperatures we're not prepared for. Basically, we need to get to a place called Hope. Which is around 650 kilometers from here. So the next week or so, which is a very appropriately named town. If we could just make it to Hope, things would get a lot less cold from there on out. We kept pushing on, but that's when things got serious. I think we should stop as soon as we see a good though. I think we should stop. Because it's starting to get dangerous. Yes, I cannot see anything. But our streak of luck In the middle of the snowstorm, we knocked on the door of the first house we saw and met Gary and Linda. You guys are staying here in here tonight. No way! Thank you so much, Gary. We continued on, and then Dave and Barb saw us on the road, pulled over and invited us This little restaurant, the Sugar Shack, let us sleep in their heated basement for the night. And in Spences Bridge, Phil pulled up, rolled down his window and started chatting to us his trailer for the night. You can sleep in as long as you want Thank you All day if you want Yeah Victoria loves to sleep in. Each morning we'd pedal off into the cold with no idea where we were going to stay that night, but every single time someone came through and took care of us. We made it! From here, the warmer coastal temperatures to warmer weather. And after that physically Linda and Gary, let us stay in their holiday home in Cultus Lake for a week, which was an incredible treat Thats it guys, thats it! We made our way into Vancouver for a couple of days of eating and then got the ferry over to Vancouver Island, which we'd heard was supposed to be But when we got there, we found that So instead of the adventurous route we decided to beeline it south to Victoria and hop on a ferry to the USA This is Victoria, the place we've been riding in the rain and the dark but we made it. We traded Canada's snow and ice for the Pacific Northwests majestic rainforest. The temperatures here were noticeably warmer and we were so relieved to be able We hopped on the iconic Pacific but it wasn't long before we'd learn to avoid busy roads like this for good. So a car just went off the road and it went off the shoulder between where we were. (everyone in the car was ok) And if I was 10 seconds slower, I would be dead basically. Victoria was behind me, but luckily she was like a minute behind so yeah, we just got very lucky. We were pretty shaken up after this and made the decision to get off the coastal highway as soon as possible. But it was still the middle of winter and with snow everywhere except the coast, that would be no easy task. So we continued on and waited Oh my God! Sea Lions Today we have another day of all day rain but the forecast says that this is supposed to be the last day of rain for the next two weeks. So hopefully that's true! With a clear weather window ahead of us, it was go time. Using a snow map, we drew up a route to escape inland to the high desert of northern Nevada. We weren't sure if it would actually be possible, but we decided to give it our best shot. This is probably the last time we'll see the Pacific until somewhere in Central America. That's the last little bit we ever cycle on the 101. Lets go to Nevada! The route we'd drawn up to avoid the snow led us to some pretty overgrown roads. But it was just the adventure we needed after so long confined to the highway shoulder. Three X's, don't go that way. God its coming to me please It's because you left your door open What do you mean? You left it open! when you went to pee Now I'm going to have nightmares Safely on the other side of the mountains, we cruised into Ashland, Oregon where Oak Street Cottages very kindly lend us a place We need to celebrate that we crossed the mountains. We've crossed the mountains, we're halfway to Nevada. stop it We spent a couple of weeks eating well and then it was time From here, although it doesn't look like it, we were just a handful of days We just had to tough it out through and a touch of snow and we'd be in the clear. This is where we camped last night, little campsite in the town of Cedarville. And over there is the desert. We're finally here. We were finally off into the desert wilderness we've been dreaming of for months. Our bikes were heavy as we were carrying over 20 liters of water. But being out in the wild, and camping wherever we pleased And it was only just the beginning. Come on dude! quickly! So that right there is Winnemucca. In Winnemucca, Daniel, the owner of Tumbleweed, drove all the way down from their home base in Idaho to camp out with us for the night. Daniel from Tumbleweed has visited us and brought us many gifts. The biggest one being Victoria's That is a beautiful bike. Something a little burlier for the ambitious routes we planned ahead. But she wasn't the only one being spoiled. Look how shiny new cog, new chain, new chainring, new cranks. It's like Christmas. The next morning. Happy Birthday to you Half a muffin, of course Yeah! Oh thank you very much. Cool, well safe travels! Yeah drive safe man let me know if theres anything else you guys need will do. We set off into the desert for the world's and set our sights on Death Valley It's so smooth, so nice I can change from 1 to 14 with no problem Thanks Daniel thank you so much. We spent the next few weeks cruising south through these incredible desert valleys, most days hardly seeing another soul, and we were really enjoying the solitude. But along with the good days came some incredibly tough ones, too. What is this? Like being stuck in the mud way out in the middle of nowhere What has happened here? I'm stuck I'm so stuck man. and the occasional reminder that we were It's not too bad. Run for your life! Run! We have to outrun this storm. How cold is it going to get tonight? -8c (18f) It's our very last cold day. So we're going to use all the hand warmers because we're not going to have We're going to put them in our socks. Hello I got to say that today is a very hard day. I'm in the worst day of my period and the wind, we have a headwind and we're going to have a headwind tomorrow too. And nothing I just wanted to tell you. I already cried like three times Sometimes that's just how it is and you just need to keep pedaling I'm afraid. I think this is officially the most intense headwind I've ever experienced in my life. We've got another 15 miles to Tonopah and we're moving at like, walking speed. After a crazy day we've arrived to Tonopah, Nevada. 3 rest days later We're just packing up seven days of food thats a lot of Kit Kats to get us to Death Valley (spanish saying) What does that mean? It means that everything fits Wow. Lets go Today is Sunday, the 2nd of April and today marks the day that it's officially hot enough to wear shorts and t-shirts. Lets go. In other news, we are carrying around 30 liters of water right now because we've got a three and a bit day stretch Welcome to Death Valley! Arriving into the baking heat meant that our long winter Just a few days ago, we were cycling in and to suddenly be in 35c (95f) is a very big difference. We took things slow, spent the afternoon and eventually made it out of the valley and continued on towards Las Vegas. Man, you look like a vagabond That's exactly where I am. So beautiful. After a couple months of desert roaming, which was by far the biggest city we'd And we were lucky to stay with a Bye guys! Thank you! We were now getting so close to but we knew we couldn't So before heading south, we set our sights A roadrunner! Our first rattlesnake of the trip! Victoria's first rattlesnake And this is Route 66. Sometimes on long pavement stretches So funny man. We came here to eat famous hotdogs in Seligman and I asked for a small Dr. Pepper and they gave me this what is that? No no, but then they gave me the real one. Woah It's breathtaking if I'm honest. Yeah it's quite big That's crazy! It was now approaching summer. Things were starting to heat up and Victoria had a newborn nephew We made a plan to take a nice long break in her hometown of Chihuahua over the summer, so it was time to wiggle our way south to the border and make it there before We're just checking the stamps in our passports which we should have done a long time ago. And we don't have much time left. We have exactly two weeks. Exactly two weeks. I did not know that! Lets go! We're getting very close to Mexico, we're probably like four days out now. It was coming up on 11 months and we knew that with crossing into Mexico, everything was about to change. Mexico is 37 miles away. This is officially our last campsite in the USA. And to be honest, after almost a year of Canada and the USA, we were a little nervous about how we'd handle it. But we were also incredibly excited about what the next chapter would bring. This was Victoria's home turf and she hadn't been home in a very long time. That's the wall. Mexico, Mexico After 11 months of cycling, we have made it to Mexico. Lets go! Victoria is very happy to be home. From here, she was just a few weeks of riding away from reuniting with her family and friends But getting there wouldn't be easy and traveling through Mexico has its risks. So we were hoping to connect with locals so that we could make informed decisions So we just got into this town, and we met this guy called Mario, who has now offered to let us sleep in his other home. Here you can relax Yes Here no one will bother you We're going up there somewhere. Hello! After a week of riding, We have reached our hottest temperature yet on the trip, my thermometer is reading 41c (106f) and it feels a bit like cycling in an oven. I believe there is a hotel here in town and get ourselves a nice cold shower. We've come from Alaska Really? Yeah Seriously? Yeah! We got talking with the hotel owners and asked Oscar his thoughts to cross into the state of Chihuahua, as we did with most people And he was definitely pretty concerned he basically explained that some particularly dangerous towns that we'd be wise to avoid. He said, it's just, So we've got a change of plans, due to just a lot of people telling us is a lot more dangerous So we're going to backtrack to a place which is where we camped on the river, and there's a road that crosses that apparently is the safest way across. We'd heard from a few people and Chihuahua was particularly dangerous, so we weren't going to take any chances and went with what we were told When we got into Pancho Villa, our first town in the state of Chihuahua, we were immediately who gave us a much needed shower I'm off on my travels There you go! Watch out for the cars! Are you going to take a photo? Come, come for the photo. They sent us off with our hearts full and a packed lunch. It was just the boost we needed and now that we were safely across the state line it would be pretty smooth sailing. It was time to get to the city and reunite Victoria with her family and friends. Goodbye! Chihuahua is extremely beautiful. Cheers! Cheers Although we were still a few days for the first time in nearly a year, Victoria was approaching familiar territory. Welcome to my town. Namiquipa! This is the town that she spent and she was very excited This is new, all this is new. Man, it's even pavement like all this used to dirt. It was dirt? Yeah. After spending a nice day It was time for the home stretch. Tomorrow we arrive in Chihuahua. I'm so excited to see my family, my friends. Lets go! As we approached the city, Victoria couldn't wipe the huge grin off her face. She was about to cycle home from Alaska, and the local cycling community had something pretty special planned We have got the welcoming committee escorting us into town. Victoria's Dad Good to meet you! As we rode closer to the city, more and more cyclists and I couldn't help but think back we'd met along the way that made it possible for us to get this far. Have you ever seen steamers? One way or another, You guys are staying in here tonight. No way! You can sleep in as long as you want. Thank you. Someone just pulled over a warm, dry spot to stay tonight. Cool, well safe travels Yeah drive safe man. Where have you come from? Well, we started in Alaska a year ago. A year? Yeah Welcome to Chihuahua my friend. Thank you very much! Thank you. This is crazy. Victoria's sister and brothers and her fresh new Nephew! Who is this lady? Oh he's got your hat! Do you want to wear it? You like it huh? You like the hat? It's so nice. It's cool huh? This is our little apartment here this is where I've been sat editing while we wait for the heat to die down, and it finally has, so so in the next couple of days, and the plan is still to continue So if you are new here and you'd like hit that Subscribe button below and we will see you in the next one!