A big idea is not always a loud idea. There's something called stealth wealth It applies to software too. That dull-looking app you don't think twice about. It could be making millions. Let's look at some apps that are We're gonna look at 5 examples of 'boring' You may be wondering - why does it matter whether Great question - that's what I really want to The examples are ordered in at the revenue they made compared to what they do. We'll measure them based on how But first, I should clarify what 'boring' means. What is a 'boring' app? It's subjective - what's boring to one If you've spent any amount of time You'll also need to bleach your eyes. The entries on this list are And when something is dull, we're more likely We do that to our cost - because some If they were a school subject, they'd be history. And I don't care what you it's still useful, and so are One condition I set was the app must Stuff like iBeer makes a lot respect - but you won't find them on this list. Ultimately, I want to share why you should And gimmicky stuff doesn't apply. So with that out of the way, Example 1: Twin Calc Eyebrow raise level: 2 cm The first example on this list But it's still a calculator app, Its premise is simple. You take a regular virtual calculator. Then you add a second calculator. And then...that's it. It's a calculator with two The wholesome part is that the retiree who one day saw a market gap in I'm gonna learn programming and It's not just a gimmick either, it has a purpose. The two calculators allow users to move the allowing the user to continue equations are still shown on the screen. It is also possible to perform different which comes in handy when comparing prices All that's super neat, but just As of Sept. 8 2022, there were about 56,800 The app is still available on it's bound to have crossed the 200k margin by now. We go from boring to more boring with... Hey guys, I want to know what you want to topics you'd like to see covered - if I I'll make a video and give you a shoutout! In the meantime, please subscribe and leave this Back to the video Example 2: GoodNotes Eyebrow raise level: 4 cm Calculators are boring enough, but note-taking Listening to the lecturer go on and on Unsurprisingly, uni is exactly where ago - when Apple's first iPad was launched. Steven Chan was a student in Hong Kong who felt math problems the old-fashioned way, and the He couldn't find a good enough He worked on it alone for the first five years - the coding, the marketing, Today the app has over 19 million users and If you were to go to their website, you'd see really nice pictures But that's just lipstick on a pig. Strip all that away, and it's And it makes millions of dollars every year. Just like the next example. Example 3: Any decent PDF Scanner Eyebrow raise level: 5 cm Top three least sexy things in the world: Income tax, expired milk, If I had to pick a present from But as boring as they are, the PDF app world as documents are part of everyday work If you're a human being living had to deal with PDFs at one point or other. You ever seen an apartment block depressing? That's what a top ten I'm just gonna choose one. TurboScan - available on Users can scan their documents in high or send them as multi-page PDF or JPEG Even the colour is boring - they're What's not boring though, is that Sensor $20,000 and their Google Play Store Go higher up the revenue list and you'll on Google Play and an estimated 3 Suddenly, I don't want a colonoscopy. Example 4: The Word Counter Eyebrow raise level: 7 cm This is another thing that Remember when we had to write those and we had to manually count them? I went years without knowing Mrs Paramjit didn't teach me properly! Anyways, the next app on our list is Count how many words they have. I wanna hype up these examples but they're To be fair, this particular example has grammar checker, a list of common typos, Random word generator. Video plays adding all these add-ons Wow - value add. Fuh - it does so much. End of the day most people are just gonna go there Because it's boring. But because the founder has played the SEO game to The Word Counter - resulting in a monthly And he only has one employee. Example 5: A Chess Game Eyebrow raise level: I don't even have eyebrows after this I knew this list was going to end other genre of app surprises The question was just which game? There are so many examples of games - that have made absurd amounts of money. Who will ever forget Flappy Bird? But then I found it. The perfect example. Something super boring that CHESS.COM I can already hear some of you. Adrian, chess is not boring - you're boring! Adrian, chess is awesome - you're just jealous. Let me clarify. When I say chess is boring, I'm not I'm comparing it to other sports and games like And it's a hill I'll die on. As for me being jealous, hell yeah I'm jealous! Chess.com makes $100 million dollars a Checkmate. Why find a boring app idea Ok, we just saw a few examples of But so what? Flashy apps can make bank too. I think there are several benefits but I'll just touch on the main one: Competition Which industry or genre or market gap do you Something that screams 'notice me senpai', or something tucked away in a Allow me to show you what I mean. One of Chess.com's biggest assets is that it's this SEO advantage that allowed it 20 million by 2017, and over 100 million by 2022. As someone who's trying to make finding keywords is such a pain in the ass. If you can look for value in the quiet being a big fish in a small pond - and what's a You grow with it - it's always your pond. I've been recommending this video really often, but it's always relevant - how to find If you're someone who struggles to find cover three strategies you can use to find Hope you found these examples enlightening - comment below - what would you like to see Cheers!