hangman is a weird game you know the game hangman? you know, that restaurant or in a classroom and in no other about hangman, like from a game design perspective? a lot recently, and wow hangman is a lot stranger I'm jan Misali, and hangman is a weird game. part one: what hangman is let's start with the basics. hangman is one letter at a time. it's generally played picked by a second player. it'll be useful to call the player who doesn't know the does know the word the "executioner". the most obviously strange thing about this being hanged to keep track of score is extremely not unique to hangman. I mean, yes, the specifics have had dark themes as long as children have Fortnite. the theme is an aspect of hangman that's where the game is played; hangman is often vocabulary. despite how ubiquitous hangman stick figure being hanged in front of a group a result, classroom hangman often involves drawing a stick figure that's just like, lesser analysts would stop at the theme, but is weird. it's honestly the least weird let's go through an example game just as works. the executioner starts by writing nine in the word they've picked for the guesser will serve to keep track of the guesser's for the rest of the game, the executioner for the guesser as they guess letters. if the executioner fills in the blank where it if the letter appears multiple times in the appears. if the guesser guesses a letter that does a single line to the gallows drawing, which hanged- the titular "hangman". if the the guesser can guess the word, the executioner first, the guesser wins. in this case, the executioner won, so now "fhqwhgads". at this point, the guesser accuses the executioner a real word. the argument escalates, creating while in this example game the guesser was possible to play the role of the guesser far part two: winning at hangman now, I know what you're thinking. playing guess letters in decreasing order of how common well, not quite. sure, that works at first, about individual letters and start thinking pattern of blanks. of course, that's not really a strategy, that's like saying that the best chess strategy likely to win the game and then do those. so let's make it more rigorous. as the guesser, from the executioner. at the start, all you you guess tells you more about the word. this in the word, but sometimes it's more useful I conjecture that the perfect strategy for like this: consider all words that it could be, given it is, where specific letters are, and specific for each letter you have not guessed yet, letter, and determine how many of the possible were the case how well does this strategy work? well, I if you guess letters randomly, with no strategy the same letter twice, you end up making about guessing letters in order of frequency is guesses on average. both of these strategies are incredibly simple, at hangman. guessing at random usually involves you get it, and even though guessing by frequency what letters are prioritized as more of the assumes that every word contains every vowel my conjectured perfect strategy, on average, the most common result was for it to only as an example of just how good the perfect frequency strategy for the word "joyousnesses". for the simple frequency strategy, "joyousnesses" the letter &lt;j&gt;, the letter that appears in this strategy will always blindly guess every &lt;j&gt;. in total, it makes nineteen incorrect guesses. does. the first thing the perfect strategy does long. it understands that for twelve letter guesses that first. since joyousnesses doesn't twelve letter words that do not contain an among those words is &lt;e&gt;. it then continues for the rest of the game the simple strategy, except that it doesn't as it guesses &lt;o&gt;, it already knows exactly and so the perfect strategy gets to the answer one slight problem is that the perfect strategy of what words the executioner could have selected be able to use this strategy. that is, except is sometimes played in a classroom to teach the guesser can be expected to know every selected. simply by memorizing the given list playing classroom hangman to play perfectly this fact is, I believe, the reason why hangman one minor issue with it as a teaching method, learning what words mean, just what letters to trick your students into studying for is enough list of potential words it's not any of the potential words to be able to use while the guesser has many possible strategies more passive role, seems to be far more limited outside of what the initial word is. "what's the hardest word to guess in hangman" to. the answer I've seen the most is "jazz", done by Jon McLoone back in 2010. &lt;j&gt; and in the English language, so the guesser is both letters would naturally be pretty hard but is it the hardest word to guess? after the same as jazz except that the &lt;a&gt; is replaced wasn't using a complete enough dictionary. means I'll have to do the math myself! unfortunately, given that it can take up to regex calculations necessary to do my conjectured every single English word; that would take I had to rely on looking for trends among able to check. one thing that's pretty obvious is that less common letters. longer words where the like "rhythm" and "symphysy". however, long words in general are not, as guess than short words. the most important letters in the word, where words with fewer consider the random guesser. statistically, the more likely any individual guess they human guessers don't generally guess letters the more well informed their guesses become. so then, what is the hardest word to guess? well, based on the random sample of words it would appear that the answer is some word a pattern that could fit as many words as a challenge; there are a lot of three letter turns out. "ax" is a hard word for a similar but is that the limit? are there words with helpfully lists six definitions for "f" the same holds true for any letter you look if every letter could be a word, that means and no matter what the guesser does it's about the word unless they happen to guess "word" to guess would just be whatever so the "hardest word to guess" is the or just whatever letter the guesser's strategy not any one clear consensus on what the least a lot of different factors. however, within list of English words, only considering how not how many times it appears total, and also to each other, the least common letter, and &lt;j&gt;. but wait a second, there's no way anybody game of hangman, right? I'm pretty sure for it so it's a word" argument wouldn't j is a word. and besides, they'd totally just accuse that the executioner actually picked j at knows, the executioner could have just waited decided what the letter was. which brings us to... part three: cheating at hangman dynamically changing what the word is mid-game can use, and following the standard rules them from doing so. if done well, the executioner noticing anything. suppose that the executioner starts the game by not having actually picked a word at the guesses are all incorrect no matter what they to do this, all you need is to simultaneously in common, then after their first five guesses this is far from the only exploit that the wins when they've finished drawing the hangman. six? ten? fifteen? there's a complete lack keep adding detail to the hangman as to give an executioner who's in it to win, however, starts, draw the gallows, including a noose. after their first incorrect guess, retroactively head and draw a suspiciously shaped body connected after their second incorrect guess, draw a then after their third incorrect guess, draw declare yourself the winner. congratulations, you have now drawn the hangman incorrect guesses! when the guesser predictably hangman works, the lack of standardization you to convince them that you think that that's don't even write down their wrong guesses, but say it was decided before the start of can't actually do any of that. no worries, quite a bit. remember the example game at the start with word to have picked? no, you won't find aren't authorities on what is or isn't if they were, they still wouldn't be authorities in hangman. consider Scrabble, another word game. Scrabble competitions do, in fact, have standard rules not just the set of all English words that basic ruleset; words that are, quote, "foreign, obscene or offensive" are all banned in hangman, as a pencil and paper game, doesn't which implies that everything is fair game. seemingly embrace this freedom and allow any putting players in the same situation as the left to decide among themselves weather or but it's not just a matter of what counts a question: does the word "pinata" contain answer would be no. n-tilde is considered and therefore in Spanish language hangman but in English, diacritics are often ignored. tilde as a perfectly acceptable alternate a tilde, it's about pinata with a tilde. if so, how would it work in hangman? does if the guesser guesses &lt;n&gt;, does the executioner it's somewhat common for things that aren't for the word at the start of the game, like an argument you could make, especially if that these should be counted as separate letters, them. j is a hard word to guess, but someone guessing it immediately. the word "that's", on word, might be literally impossible to guess. feel free to argue that there's no specific in fact, go right ahead and get into a heated letter in general. you have my support. the thing is, all of these ways for the executioner so why doesn't the executioner always win the executioner just isn't very fun. part four: hangman is a weird game hangman doesn't exist in a vacuum. it's genre. yet, as a word guessing game, hangman take Pictionary, for example. that's a pretty Pictionary, one player is randomly assigned their team members what that word is by drawing if they can guess the word within a time limit. most word guessing games follow this basic who know the word try to help guessers guess players who know the word and players who word guessing games are fundamentally cooperative. but always as a competition to see how well imagine if Pictionary worked like hangman. for the artist, the artist picks it themself, guess the word. under these rules, they'd just wait out the timer and automatically and that's exactly the reason why it isn't want the guesser to win, because that's then, the way the executioner isn't supposed that hangman isn't designed for the limited guessing games. so, even though it is definitely really a word guessing game, in the same sense shooter. so, if it's not a word guessing game, what the medium rather than the genre. hangman is a pencil and paper game. pencil simple. their rules are passed down through they only take seconds to learn. this isn't definitely something to be said about the or even tag. pencil and paper games are like a halfway than the human body and proper board games. is tic tac toe, also known as naughts and while tic tac toe and hangman are in completely thing in common beyond their medium. just isn't very fun, being good at tic tac toe what they're doing, the result is a tie but really, the fact is that other pencil amount of open-endedness as hangman. pencil wins states for both players, and hangman to keep playing after tic tac toe ends, but way to play. perhaps I'm looking at this too broadly. just look at Wheel of Fortune! hugely popular prizes attached. right? well, not necessarily. there's some pretty are multiple guessers competing against each where a teacher takes the role of the executioner guesser. how do you turn hangman into a competitive competitive, as the guesser and executioner I don't think that "competitive" is of the game, the two players are better described they are working against each other, but they anyway, to turn hangman from an adversarial to change is to have multiple guessers take gets the final letter wins. this is good enough Wheel of Fortune has a few more specific fundamental first, Wheel of Fortune is actually about is a pretty minor change all things considered, of possibilities by a functionally infinite is given to the guessers right at the start. bit of context to the round, and allows players the second fundamental change is the way scoring awarded an amount of money determined randomly by how many times it appears in the phrase. phrase throughout the round, while the element uncertainty. the third fundamental change is a restriction start of a guesser's turn, they spin the correctly, they can choose to spin again, phrase. since vowels are among the most common be guessed adds a layer of strategy to the these major changes seem to have been made rely entirely on knowledge of letter frequency that even a player who somehow knows exactly been revealed has a slim but non-zero chance anything. but like, why? why does hangman need to be players to win in order for it to work as though they had this idea for a show where but they didn't want it to just be televised sort of skill based game, and hangman was maybe hangman would fit in more in the genre Who. like hangman, a player selects one from the game, and then the other player gathers at an abstract level, they're very similar there's another game that has just as much is actually even closer to hangman, since game over the initial setup, and there's be guessed. there is one thing Guess Who and Battleship have in common with hangman: both games are and it makes sense, right? otherwise, the to do for the whole game. say, that gives me an idea for how we could make it like Battleship! make it symmetric! a word, then they take turns guessing letters need the hangman to keep track of incorrect guesses the other player's word first. sure, of word guessing games, but as established, part five: conclusion hangman is a two player asymmetric adversarial in pop culture is completely unique. it's same time it's a game where nobody knows where one player needs to have an understanding other player has nothing preventing them from advantage of to prevent themself from winning. its genre. it's completely unlike anything hangman is a weird game. thanks for watching. I've been jan Misali,