(Shot) The craft of gunsmithing is centuries old. It is based on knowledge that is passed down from generation to generation. (Roaring) Every rifle has its own story. Even today it is not big machines, but people with a lot of experience who make hunting rifles out of wood and steel. I've always been fascinated by the mechanics and the craftsmanship that goes into a weapon like this . And just how everything fits together, the materials, wood, metal, and simply the craftsmanship. (Roaring) And every rifle tells the story of this traditional craft. (Birds chirping) They build the hunting rifle at the Krieghoff family business in Ulm. Its story begins here with the raw parts. (clinking) Martin Stroppel is one of the gunsmiths. He straightens the barrels and bends them. Not with an automated machine, but by hand. (Low background whirring) So, this is our machine for barrel straigthening. Every run that we get in-house is completely straightened right from the start. All Martin needs is his trained eye, a lot of sensitivity, and light and shadow. For us, judging works through the shadow. We look through the barrel from back to front. The shadow itself, you can see it here, I recorded it here for guided tours, that's basically the muzzle at the front and that's on the inside of the barrel bottom, that's where the triangular shadow ring is cast. If you rotate the barrel, the shadow must always remain the same. If it becomes thinner or thicker somewhere, that shows me where I have to press to make it straight. Barrel alignment is the basis for a precise shot. So Martin repeats it six to eight times, each time the barrel is heat treated. The straight individual runs go to Frank Geiselmann. He will silver soldering them, i.e. connect them to form a barrel bundle, because it will be a double rifle with two rifle barrels. The brown flux ensures that the heat flows better and the barrels connect cleanly via the two-part monoblock. (Short clatter) Before Frank solders, he folds, traditionally by hand and with a straightedge, and checks whether the barrels are at the same height. Because he only has one attempt at soldering. (Rooming in the background) (Metallic clatter) Now the soldering process begins. We heat gradually up to 680, 690 degrees. Let it cool down again to 630, heat up again until the solder has finally flowed everywhere and forms a clean seam everywhere. Soldering works via induction, i.e. a magnetic field that causes the molecules inside the steel to vibrate and thereby heat them up. When soldering, Frank has to pay close attention to ensuring that the heat is distributed evenly. He also recognizes the correct temperature by eye. There are the tempering colors of ocher... then it becomes greyish, bluish, and then it goes up to orange until the glow colors come. (Noise) There are silver soldering rods with 55 percent silver content in the fixed rails. Frank soldered the outer areas by hand using silver brazing solder. (Noise) The process is called silver soldering because the tensile strength of the soldered connection is particularly strong, i.e. hard. All parts that absorb large forces when shot are brazed. When the solder has connected the barrels, Frank reworks it by hand. (Hissing) (Hissing) He uses the gas burner to heat the outside areas again so that the seam is cleanly closed everywhere and the barrels are perfectly connected. (Hissing) (Hissing) (Drumming) After cooling, the barrel bundles are sandblasted. And we end up one room away with Markus Schlapp. The young master gunsmith will solder all the bars between the barrels. The font bead and rear sight, among other things, will later be mounted on them. Because of their curve, they are called "rib" in technical jargon. Here too, flux is needed for optimal heat distribution when soldering. The parts are soldered on with a flame; this process is called soft soldering. (clattering, whirring) He fixes the tires on the barrel in advance with wire. I tighten the wires looser in the middle so that when I knock the wedges in afterwards, the barrel bundle can be pulled together better. If I tighten it too much, it compresses the barrels in the middle, then I'm like a banana, then the barrel bundle doesn't close. The following always applies: meticulous preparatory work is the basis for a precise weapon. Now all the wires and wedges I attached have caused the barrel bundle to warp a bit. That's why I have to edge it out at the end before I solder it so that it really fits so that the meeting point position is correct afterwards. Mmm. (Machine roaring in the background) First of all, the monoblock is heated with the burner because that is where the most mass is. Then you work your way forward from the chamber to the muzzle. This is where it is decided whether the barrel bundle has to be shot in five times, seven times or ten times. (Hissing) Right from the start, the foundation for a precise shot is laid. Once the chamber has been preheated, Markus heats the entire barrel evenly with the soldering torch. (Roaring) Until he can connect the attachments with soft solder containing silver. The temperature here is only 200 to 300 degrees, the connection is softer than with previous brazing. After soldering is before straightening. Markus checks whether the barrels have warped and whether all the seams are good. (Machine roaring in the background) Now I'll first do a sound test to see whether the barrel bundle is tight and free of tension. Because the barrel is supposed to swing. That's why I'm going to hit it with a hammer. (Bright sound) Shoot. (Rubbing) Leaking solder joints would result in a dull sound - and in the end no sensible shot. He thoroughly removes the soldering residue with a file and sandpaper. The gunsmiths also call it "garnishing". (Squeaking, roaring) With his self-made chest lyre, Markus also mills the barrel muzzle smooth. (Squeaking) After sandblasting again, the barrels are preserved in oil and await their next station. The heart of the rifle is the so-called receiver, also known as the action box. It is manufactured from raw parts in the computer-controlled milling machine. (Clattering) At Martin's workbench it is connected to the other components for the first time. We're doing the initial assembling today. This is basically the step where the barrel bundle and the box are fitted together and are then no longer separated. We get raw pieces from milling or from soldering and milling, and then they are completely adapted to each other. This is the lock plate, here are all the small parts for the trigger mechanism, look work and everything. Then we have the barrel bundle and receiver. We start with the receiver. We clean all the sliding surfaces and everything so that we can fit it together nicely afterwards. Precision is taken into account in every work step. The perfect sliding surfaces are essential for a clean shot. Now we're ready to connect the barrel and receiver for the first time and use inledding ink to see where it fits and where we still need to rework it. It is very important that all sliding surfaces and all contact surfaces are clean and lie flat. Simply that the system and everything runs smoothly. (Hammering) During the white assembly, Martin takes care of all unfinished surfaces. They are still white, so to speak. In gunsmith terms, "white" always stands for the unfinished state before surface treatment. &quot;Black&quot;, on the other hand, for the steps after surface processing. So now we're putting the barrel and the receiver together for the first time. (Click) And see how it works. Ah, now you can see that the purdey nose is still completely hanging, and the rear barrel hook. We now have to continue or rework it so that the box will eventually collapse completely onto the barrel. (Short hissing sound) (Rubbing) Martin started his training here 20 years ago. It was clear to him early on that he wanted to become a gunsmith. I have a bit of a background in hunting at home, great-grandpa was a hunter, dad, brother, uncle, all hunters. (Rattling) Thanks to the blue ink, he gets an impression when putting it together and can see exactly where there is contact and where he needs to file it. This is the only way he can adapt the surfaces perfectly. Here you can now see that it is half-high. Now we have to rework the hard areas at the bottom, then it will be visible across the entire surface at the top. And so Martin works his way forward, hundredth by hundredth of a millimeter, until it fits. (hammering) (hammering) We have now fitted the receiver and barrel set together. The contact surfaces all clearly show that the box sits neatly against the running plate. All the surfaces that are important fit so far, and the hook movement is now really good and nice and even. So far we have finished the fitting work, and now we can move on to filing the shape. We now file the shape of the box, the shape so to speak, and then polish it by hand. At Facon, the focus is on aesthetics. Martin removes the last traces of machine production. The file is, so to speak, every gunsmith's absolute favorite tool. Yes, there is a lot of fine-tuning during training. Martin always has a thin layer of chalk on his files. It ensures that it only removes minimal material and does not tear out any deep chips. It goes from coarse to fine. First file... (tear) then polish finely with sandpaper. For the deeper areas, Martin uses special gunsmith tools, the so-called tampers. (Clicking) Now the floor plate is mounted in the box. This is actually the last step of the white assembly. (Hammering) Then the basic structure of the rifle is connected for the first time. In his many years as a gunsmith, Martin has owned a number of rifles. But he remembers his first rifle particularly well. Yes, I bought a Krieghoff-Waldschutz drilling relatively early on. It was built in 1952, we restored it here and it's still there. (Quiet babble of voices) A few meters away, a customer is visiting the woodworking shop of stock maker Ralf Sommer. He gets a measuring stick. We are now checking the stock. How you can ultimately adapt the shaft perfectly to the operator. And I'm basically looking him in the eye through the sights. And if you look at it from the front, the pupil must be directly behind the sights. The stock length is the general stop, and for the trigger it is the length of grip that has to fit. When measuring, Ralf draws primarily on his decades of experience. The made-to-measure shaft is comparable to a made-to-measure suit. Then please reach out. It's the handle of the gun, so to speak. By the way, company founder Ludwig Krieghoff had the clever saying: "You shoot with the barrel, you hit with the stock." The back of the shaft, the classic, is straight. The cheek will be a Bavarian cheek. In the classic style, the traditional shape is the straight back. In exceptional cases you can also do the pork loin, which means the back goes straight and makes a bend at the back. So basically like a wild boar, it has a bend in the neck. And that's basically a pork loin out of there. Then we had... the cheek variants. For example, we now have Deutsche Backe here. And for the other shafts it is the Bavarian cheek. Those are just the differences. For example, I really like it when you hit it now and you take it like this, put it here, then you have a little more material at the bottom, where the cheek is, and you can cling to it a little bit. So that's a bit of a feeling of well-being. but also a bit of an accessory, I say. (birds chirping) With the measurements taken, shepherd Ralf goes to the wood workshop next door. The Turkish root wood, which is up to 150 years old, is dried and stored here . He can only use wood from certain regions for the shaft. This is walnut wood. This is actually what all of our shafts are made from. What is very important with our wood is that it grows slowly, because fast-growing woods have larger pores. And as a result, stability simply suffers. And that's why you actually use the slow-growing nut trees, which have few nutrients in the soil, often stony ground, little rainfall, so they really have a difficult life. They grow accordingly more slowly. And the area that we actually use, yes, 90 percent of it, is the root area, where the wood not only shoots straight up, but is then intertwined and has the interesting grain, as you can see. Using a model, Ralf draws the rough shape for this shaft. He pays particular attention to the appearance of the grain. This is now optimal. We have the beautiful, wilder grain at the back. And if you look at it, it's running straight in the front area. This plays incredibly into our hands. That's actually... for me now as a shepherd I would say it's an advantage. The right side offers a little more than the left. But since this is going to be a right-handed stock, we have to move the stock relatively far to the right because we have the cheek piece on the left side. This means that the chance of a better grain coming out is very high. (Huring) (Rattling) Ralf's 30 years of experience helps him choose wood. But only after sawing on the table band saw does it become apparent whether his expectations of the wood are being met. This is a natural product that grows the way it wants. That's a bit of a surprise, but it's relatively calculated, so it's okay. And if you look at the pages now, you're very satisfied. I'm sure it's going to be a really great shaft. Ralf drills the mounting holes for the next step on the horizontal drilling machine. (Squeaking, whirring) (Rattling, squeaking) He now clamps the blank into the copy milling machine with a feeler mandrel. We now have the piece to be copied on the right-hand side . And on the left we have the copy model. If you see it now, the cutter is sitting on the copy piece. We have a huge amount of air here, which means we have to sort of eliminate the difference between here and there. Of course, this only works at a hellish speed, somewhere around 18,000 revolutions. It's about to get loud and the chips are flying. (Loud whirring) The copy milling machine is actually intended for rough work by carvers and was originally advertised for a completely different function. In the advertising brochure there was a figure of the Virgin Mary stretched out here. And then it basically created a duplicate on the right and left. Mary figurine, alphorn bowl or shaft... It's wood. (Hiring) (Hiring) Here, however, Ralf is only pre-milling the shaft holder. He does the rest by hand at his workbench. (Traffic noise) (Plopping) All of the areas have of course only been roughly worked on. And here we have the remains of the recording, so to speak, of the driver. Now everything has to be cleaned and everything, including the contact surface at the back, has to be adapted to the system. (Clacking) He uses his chisels for this. (scraping) (rattling) In order to adjust the recording exactly, Ralf has an identical test receiver. (Whirring) (Hamming, fragments of words) I'm now basically blacking out the places with an ink where the system will be when it knocks for the first time. This means I have a black print afterwards and can see exactly where I need to rework the wood. Then we take it, put it on, and then we give it a good tap. (hissing in the background) (snatches of conversation) (creaking) The receiver already fits, the form can continue. Now we begin, step by step, to transfer the dimensions to the blank we have prepared . It starts with the shaft length. The shaft length can change like that. Now it's like this... there's the term &quot;pitch&quot; or &quot;cap angle&quot;, which basically means how the cap stands in relation to my shoulder when finished. We now need seven degrees for the shaft. This means that the cap is essentially tilted seven degrees at the bottom and adapts better to the shoulder, as if it were negative or straight. So we now have to mark seven degrees. (Clattering) (Hissing noise) (Filing in the background) Ralf roughly saws out the shape on the band saw. (Whirring) (Clacking) (Birds chirping) One room away is Jeanne Bassani's workplace. The French woman is an engraver and will decorate the receiver. The side surfaces are framed by an oak leaf motif. Jeanne first traces this onto the receiver and carefully marks it. Sometimes I draw directly on the metal with that tip there. And when I'm finished, I can then work, engrave. Every engraver has his or her own tools that last a lifetime. Jeanne received the engraving hammer as a gift from her teacher. With this and an engraving chisel she engraves the first lines for the oak leaf border. Jeanne's vice is rotatably mounted, so she can always strike at the optimal angle. When it comes to engraving, one thing is particularly important. You really have to watch what you're doing. You have to take your time and always work step by step. (Hammering) There are hardly any engravers left today. Jeanne learned the craft for years in Belgium. Incidentally, many of her classmates went on to become tattoo artists. I'm done with the engravings. And now I have to do a little hallmarking everywhere. She uses a stipple tool for this. A Perlai in French. And you have different sizes. This is a number four. And you have number one to number eleven for example, that's very rough. But number four is enough... for that. By stippling, Jeanne gives the picture more depth because the light refracts differently in it. (Quiet clatter) The receiver also gets a detailed scene with animals. Jeanne draws these roughly using a traditional scaling instrument, the pantograph. This is a pantograph. This is a very antique one, and I use it to transfer the desired model to a smaller area. Every engraver has his own method. This is mine, but you can do it with tracing paper or draw directly on the metal. I like this method better. So, I have two tips... and I'll start here. And that goes right on the other side. So. Jeanne goes into detail. She gets inspiration from an old book. The rest comes from her imagination. (Hammering) Blow by blow, line by line, a wild boar is created. (Hammering) It takes Jeanne around two days to finish all the details on the receiver . A very complex engraving can take significantly longer. The second page has a different scene, a roaring red deer in the forest. And of course the forest needs fir trees. Jeanne hallmarks them with a handmade hallmark. For the coarser shading she uses so-called straight line gravers. (hammering) This allows me to shade over a larger area. But this is a very ancient, traditional tool. I learned it from my colleague. (hammering) The deer gets a warm fur engraved on it. Done. The receiver is only hardened so that the image lasts forever. With Ralf, on the other hand, things are still rather rough. The shaft gradually takes shape. For the cast, Ralf still has to mark the center line. (Hammering) What we would do now is determine the zero of the shaft. The method we use is traditional and I believe it should be retained. It's like this: I cock the gun like this, with the muzzle facing me, and then we hold out a needle at the back. And basically use the front sight and rear sight to aim for the needle so that everything is in alignment. Then we end up with zero. From zero we can then make the four millimeter offset. The set is the lateral deviation of the shaft from its longitudinal axis. For a right-handed person, the shaft deviates to the right so that it fits better against the cheek. In order to mark the center line at an exact 90 degree angle, Ralf uses the plumber's plumb bob. (Filing in the background) An old technique. But that's how Ralf learned it a good 30 years ago. This is a certain traditional craftsmanship that I was shown by the old boss, the master. I just think we should keep it alive. Of course, this is not 100 percent true with the needle, but there are certain tolerance limits that we adhere to even with this method. They worked, I don't know, for 80 or 100 years. Why shouldn't it work like that now? There have been no complaints about the restriction yet. Ralf screws the recoil pad onto the end, which he mounts now for orientation when sawing out. Once he has recorded all the measured values, the fun part comes for him. The cast, drop, length of grip, width of grip, the pitch, these are all tangible, measurable dimensions. But the rest of the shaft is all freeform. That means... I can do whatever I want. Actually. Now let's saw it out and then we'll see how it comes out. (Whirring) (Whirring) The shaft is being seriously attacked: with a draw knife and Ralf's wood rasp. Okay, folks, no more fun. (clattering) No wood, no shaft is ever the same. That's why Ralf has to work a little differently every time. It works better in the direction of filing, and it also wears better. This has to do with the direction of the fibers and the grain. You have to get involved with the material to some extent. (Hammering) Use a wood chisel to get the exact shape. Beat by beat the outline becomes finer and finer. And each workpiece has its own character. Each shaft is individual in shape. It's like a bit of sculpting - on a small scale. From raw wood to the perfect shape, it takes around ten hours in total. Meanwhile, the barrels are treated in the electroplating department. Dietmar is the company's Galvanizer, the &quot;surface coater&quot;. He will be bluing the barrels, i.e. chemically blacken them with stain. But first they go into cleaning baths. The barrels must be absolutely pure metallically. There must be no oil, no grease or rust on it because the stain needs a metallically clean surface. And if, for example, there were oils and grease on it, the stain would not get on the metallic part and then there would be stains. So the runs are quite demanding. And you always have to pay attention to it later during further production . Everything has to be absolutely free of oil and grease, otherwise you have to start all over again. In the lye basin, oil and fat are converted into soap via chemical processes . Dietmar scrubs them off. The barrel is then rinsed and neutralized in a cold and hot water bath. (Hissing) He is no longer allowed to touch the barrels with his bare hand at any time. You can see now that the cleaning wasn't completely perfect. Residual contamination still comes out of the bores. It may be that there are still slight traces of corrosion, which we will then remove in the next step. We're doing something very traditional, we're making wine. For this, Dietmar uses Vienna lime, a remedy that our grandparents already knew well. He applies the lime with a damp cloth and allows it to dry. Viennese lime is very finely ground, pure dolomite or calcium-magnesium carbonate, a natural mineral. The lime removes the last impurities and polishes the surface. By the way, the word comes from Viennese, i.e. to clean or rub until shiny and has nothing to do with Austria. Dietmar removes the residual dirt bound by the lime using wire brushes on the polishing machine. He very carefully removes only the loose layers from the surface. Time for the first rust bluing. The stain is an acid solution, roughly made of copper sulfate and iron (III) chloride. The composition used to be a trade secret of electroplaters and gunsmiths. Each manufacturer has its own recipe. The old gunsmiths used to have a booklet in their pocket with their recipes on it. So, it's up to each one, if he gets a good result, then everything is fine. It is an oxidation process. And when the iron turns nice and brown, the whole thing is called rust. And so that it rusts really well, the barrels can be put in the sauna, pardon, heat chamber with increased humidity. Dietmar has to repeat the entire process five to nine times, depending on the run and the ambient climate. Back to Ralf in the sheepfold. The next steps would now be to round the top, pierce the double fold and then... fit the steel cap. We're actually in such a white-finished state now that we're pretty good at it. So just a little bit more and then... it's fine. And once again: from coarse to fine. Depending on the wood, a handmade custom-made shaft can easily cost a few thousand euros. Of course, there are also cheaper shafts from the CNC milling machine. But the special thing about the handmade shaft is its uniqueness. (Blowing) Actually, every shaft is unique. It's just freeform, you can't measure it, and I'll never be able to create a shaft that's exactly the same shape as the other one. The double fold of the Bavarian jaw is also a little different every time. It's just manual work. And even after many years as a shepherd, Ralf is happy when he sees an old sheath again. (Blowing) Recently I actually had a treble hook that was made in... '98 or '99, and it was actually mine. Then I think: wow, hey. It had a real patina, it was a bit greasy. Well oiled, had a lot of pressure points, that's cool. The pistol grip has an engraved monogram plate at the very end. Ralf creates space for this. (Quiet snippets of conversation in the background) Also done. (hammering, whirring) (squeaking, machine whirring) We'll get it nice and wet now. That when we dry it, the pores basically open up. So, if you move over it now, you'll notice at the handle, where the wood is a little softer, you'll notice that it's really rough. When you water it, the pore swells up again and goes up again, then we take it off again. And the second time the pore no longer opens, it remains in its lower, sanded state. Now it will be sanded twice more and then we can oil it. And for once this can be done with electrical help: with the vibratory grinder and a fine grain size of 100 to 320. Then comes a big moment for the shepherd: the first oiling. Absolutely does what I expected. If anything, a little better. When you see it with the oil layer, how it shines, it's really awesome. So really, this is going to be a really great shaft. And while the stock dries in peace, the barrels rust for a few hours. You can take another hot bath. The oxide layer must now be neutralized and then the loose rust layer removed. They are then put in the hot sink and you can see in the bathroom how the rusty red then turns black. Time is an important factor in bluing. If you let it rust for too long, it can cause rust scars. And that is a real massive attack on the material. And then you have to start all over again. Dietmar has to repeat all the browning steps, viennaing, polishing, painting, several times. How often varies from run to run. With each pass the barrels become darker. He decides by eye when it's right. He touches up individual areas with a brush and stain. And again we go to the sauna to rustle up. Until Dietmar is satisfied. After five rounds, this side by side barrel set is jet black. He gets one last important finish. Bluing, whether brush or dip bluing, is a very poor form of corrosion protection. Without oiling, bluing is practically worthless. It's just a privacy screen. The bluing itself is purely optical and prevents reflected light from blinding the shooter. The result: a deep black gun barrel with no color, only through chemical processes. (Snatches of conversation in the background) The shaft, which has now been oiled and dried several times, also gets its finish: the so-called checkering. Ralf first draws the outline. He has special tools for cutting the checkering. These are checkering tools. We make them ourselves from silver steel and bend them. Then we make the teeth with a thread file so that the teeth are calibrated so that they fit together. And then it's a tool that pushes and pulls. So actually like a saw. I can cut three, four, five shafts with it and then have to sharpen it, but that's not a problem. Ralf starts with a few basic lines, the so-called master or leading lines. They are the skeleton of his fish skin. Then he starts cutting, line by line. Of course, the fish skin is not just for visual reasons. The main aspect is grip. The diamonds are basically at a slight angle to the handle, which means that when I glide over them, they are actually relatively smooth. And if I grab the handle like this and try to slide like this, then you can clearly tell that it has a good grip. Overlapping the lines creates the special pattern of the fish skin. Of course there is also a laser cut option, but Ralf swears by his handicraft. In terms of grip, I would say that hand-cut ones are 20 or 30 percent more grippy than those made by laser, I think. And a very, very big advantage is that if there is a dent in it, I go over it very carefully, cut again and the thing looks like it did before. That doesn't work with lasers. (Filing) And Ralf is also sure that his customers also appreciate the uniqueness of the craftsmanship. I say, he wants the craftsmanship, he wants the nuance of craftsmanship, he wants the fingerprint of the shepherd. (Blowing) That's my fingerprint. And the stocks that I make are all... &quot;similar&quot;. The style and... I think that appeals to customers, I've already done a few. Each shaft receives around five oilings in total, one per day. And Ralf already has a good feeling. I'm really, well... 100 percent satisfied. Absolutely. This is going to be a great rifle. Siggi Kuhn is now assembling this rifle at his workbench from around 150 parts. The gunsmiths call this final fitting, so to speak the final production. I still have the firing pins inside. The firing pins ignite the cartridge. The blow comes practically from behind, and then the firing pin goes out to the front and practically hits the primer on the primer cap, and that ignites the cartridge. That's actually the most important thing. Without that nothing works. During final assembly, every part and every fit must be exactly right. Because the forces inside the weapon are enormous. This is caliber 9374. It has a gas pressure of around 3,000 bar. And this is checked during the bombardment, and the bombardment is fired again at 30 percent increased gas pressure. So we're almost at 4,000 bar in shelling. Incidentally, caliber 9374 means the cartridge has a diameter of 9.3 millimeters and a length of 74 millimeters. The rifle has two gold triggers with which the barrels can be fired individually. We now actually have all the trigger weights, everything assembled. And now it comes to the lock parts, and you can control that via the surface, as you can see, it clicks into place like this. And depending on how I set the angle. The sharper I make the angle when I go in that direction, the heavier the trigger weight becomes. Or I can make it flatter in the other direction, then the trigger weight will be lighter. And then you really notice, two or three hundredths of a time, you notice that something is changing. That's why Siggi files very carefully with polishing paste on the file. (Huring) (Quiet snippets of conversation) The trigger weight, i.e. the force that the finger has to apply to fire, should be 1,400 grams. Siggi checks this with a spring balancer. For example, if I want to get a very precise shot, then I have the option of piercing the weapon. And at the moment when it is stabbed, I only have a trigger weight of around 200 grams. When the trigger is set, the trigger is pre-cocked so that the shooter can fire a more precise shot. For example, in peace on the high seat. After firing, this rifle can eject the cartridges mechanically. This requires the so-called ejectors. Siggi installs it. (clacking) (hammering) And Ralf's finished shaft is finally where it belongs. (Quiet squeak) It's always a nice feeling when you see a weapon like that. And basically every weapon is unique. No two weapons are the same. (Filing in the background) Something special always comes along and you just enjoy it. And a bit proud of your job that you can do something like that. (Clacking) The first complete assembly. Siggi is already testing the ejectors with empty cartridges. (Clicking) (Metallic clinking) Almost there, because a rifle like this has to be zeroed in. The double rifle is put through its paces in a shooting range . When zeroing in, live ammunition enters the barrels for the first time. The rifle will only fire if all the actions up to this point have been perfect . This is now evident. (Shot) (Shot) (Click) It's not a toy, it's a weapon. A side by side. A double rifle that involves a lot of traditional handwork. You pay 13,000 euros and get a hunting rifle made of steel, wood and the heartbeat of a traditional craft. What excited you most about this "craftsmanship"? Write it to us in the comments. And of course we look forward to your channel subscription. SWR 2024