Thank you to Magellan TV for supporting PBS. The device you're watching this video on and negative charges moving around a circuit But the only elementary particle actually flowing in the circuit are the negatively charged electrons. And yet those flowing positive charges are have heard of. Your device works because of quasi-particles nature that enable our most important technologies that we have ever encountered. Let's start our discussion of quasiparticles that lets me talk to you about quasiparticles Now electrons, which are regular particles, are pushed around inside electrical circuits, but it's only half the story. In semiconductors that make up transistors, of a quasiparticle is equally important. Let's look at the material that is central The silicon atom has 4 electrons in its outer Atoms are most stable with full valence shells, That's why silicon likes to form covalent with another 4, forming this tetrahedral crystal lattice. We're going to depict this as a square grid These electrons are locked in place in the But they can still get bumped up to a higher or in the case of solar cells by a photon, at which point the electron is free to move from atom to atom - for example if pulled by a Meanwhile, the gap left by this electron allows A neighboring electron can move there, and It looks like the hole moves around, and under to the flow of electrons. This is our first quasiparticle - it's an It has an effective positive charge due to canceled by electrons in that location. It even has an effective positive mass. We can model it as though it's a real particle. To see how this quasiparticle is more than perhaps the simplest semiconductor device Diodes allow current to travel in one direction They consist of two layers of silicon - on and in the other a deficit. This is achieved by doping - contaminating On one side we sprinkle the silicon lattice than 4 valence electrons. Phosphorus is a popular choice. Those extra electrons are more free to move bonds. This is an n-type semiconductor - n because The other side is doped with atoms that have Now electrons on that side can move a little bit. They can shuffle to fill the gaps in the underfilled valence shells - so we have flowing positively charged electron holes and a p-type semiconductor. In a diode, n- and p-types are fused together. At the p-n junction, extra electrons in the so we end up with a region where all valence Apply a voltage in one direction and the holes and electrons flow away from this junction, expanding the non-conductive region and shutting But apply the voltage the other way and the junction, causing it to narrow and electrons That's the diode - a valve for electricity. And these p-n junctions also drive solar cells, And they all depend on the behavior of these You might argue that electron holes are just that they aren't "real" like electrons After all, if you melt the silicon the electrons In a sense that's right - quasiparticles configuration of matter. Just like states of matter, which we talked about previously. But at the very least quasiparticles make it much easier to model physical processes like semiconductor junctions and in other cases they are indispensable. Let's explore one of those cases. We'll stick with our silicon crystal. We have one quasiparticle from making a gap in one spot in the electron energy level. And we can make another one by making a very different tweak to the local energy in the crystal. Another way energy can be stored in the lattice Think of the covalent bonds as springs, so pressing on the springs, and causing other In this way vibrational energy can move around But this seems a bit more like a sound wave In fact sound waves in solids do propagate But remember we're at the quantum scale Those vibrational modes in the crystal are In this case, the crystal lattice can vibrate at each vibrational mode can only go up in That means vibrational energy also gets transferred So now we have something like a particle - a the lattice. This new quasiparticle is called the phonon. I said that sound is transmitted through solids a quantum of a sound wave, similar to how wave. The analogy is not a shallow one. Phonons behave in many ways like light. They travel at the speed of their wave-type They have energy equal to the planck constant They are boson-like in that you can stack single vibration. Compare that to electron holes, which are in a given spot at one time. As well as being a quantum of sound in solids, After all, heat in solids comes from the vibrational transferred around by phonons. You can think of sound as a coherent beam random buzz of phonons. Understanding the behavior of phonons is critical sound and heat in solids at the quantum scale And phonons are also really important for your computer, which, as you know, can get hot. Energy is often transferred between phonons modeling this is needed for modeling the behavior For example, electrons traveling through a they have collisions, which can be electromagnetic into a hole, etc. In doing so they can dump its energy into This manifests as heat. The heat due to electrical resistance is one as fast as you might like to. But quasiparticles can help there too. But before we get to that, first a quick recap. We now have two types of quasiparticle - holes, quasi-positrons, and we have phonons, which Now, elementary particles can be combined is composed of quarks forming a nucleus and of virtual photons. Believe it or not we can create composite And, as it happens, the new quasiparticle electrical resistance problem. You may have heard of a little something known near absolute zero and the electrical resistance interactions with electromagnetic fields, to make super fast trains. We'll do a deeper dive into superconductivity how this phenomenon is enabled by quasiparticles. Metals form crystal lattices similar to silicon, they don't use up all of their valence electrons Add a voltage and those electrons are free current. But of course we have them pesky phonons, add up to a lot of random jiggling of the That motion, as we know, causes resistance. Electrons are jostled, exchanging phonons a smooth, streamline flow You might think that cooling down the metal But it's not the relative stillness of the more interesting. Very low temperature means few random, noisy Which in turn means that coherent structures In fact, it becomes possible for the phonons photon - it becomes the carrier of a force. In this case a quasi-force that can actually Normally we think of electrons as repelling by photons. At the same time, the negatively charged electrons in a metal lattice attract the positive nuclei. The nuclei get tugged a tiny bit in the direction in positive charge can in turn attract more Ideally that first electron is part of an The nuclei spring back again, and actually They take a little of the original electron's mixed up and indistinguishable from all the Any electrons that were attracted by this jostled so much that this effect is tiny But if the metal is really, really cold - like, by the attraction of nuclei to a passing electron A stream of electrons in one direction sets modes of the lattice, effectively binding In a very real way, these are electrons bound by phonons , and our next quasi-particle - the Cooper pair. Now it's really a fair bit more complex The pairs of electrons are bound over large distances, not separated by single atoms. And it's not simple to say which electron is bound to which other. In fact, a network of cooper pairs move together in the mutually induced resonant oscillation of the metal lattice An amazing thing about Cooper pairs is that Each electron is spin half, making them fermions, but two electrons have spin 1 - like a photon and that's for reasons we can't get into. But this means they act like photons in that many Cooper pairs can occupy the same quantum state. In fact at very low temperatures all of the pairs in an enormous network of flowing electrons can all occupy the lowest energy state. They don't have the energy to excite new This means they stream through the lattice As I mentioned, there is a lot more to the story of superconductivity, and we will come back to it. And these Cooper pairs are also responsible for superfluidity. They are, in general, pretty super as far There are many quasi-particles beyond the appear in lattices of quantum spin, like are or skyrmions, which are localized, stable knots - all very important for the emerging In superfluids we have rotons - a quantum The roton is a quasiparticle enabled by a turn enabled by another quasiparticle - the It seems quasiparticles can build into complex Which shouldn't be so surprising, because in many ways. After all, the elementary particles like electrons, the elementary quantum fields. But a field is just some property that can Another field could be the number of electrons in the valence shell of a block of silicon. And it turns out that any field, elementary or not, will give rise to particles as long as that field has quantized energy states. A crystal lattice supports many fields - the the many quantized vibrational modes in its We now know of dozens of quasiparticles, but discovered. And some may enable new technologies just as the transistor. All part of the magnificent complexity emergent Thank you to Magellan TV for supporting PBS. Magellan is a documentary streaming service in genres as varied as science, history, true Magellan adds more than 20 hours of new content watch documentaries that explore cosmic ideas for Habitable Exoplanets,&quot; "Planet Hunting Asteroid: Defending Earth," which looks to save us from the possibility of world-ending And a Magellan membership means you'll never Plus, MagellanTV offers annual membership to be an easy gift for all kinds of occasions. For more information on membership go to https://www.magellantv.com