- Our speakers really don't so I'm really actually not going to give them an introduction, but just to say that of this job that every now together people who have not met, but who have admired each other and that is certainly the Natalie Portman, as you all know, is an award-winning, Academy She's also an environmentalist, very deeply committed one, and a Harvard alumni. Her credentials in many, Yuval Harari's books have We are so delighted Another treat of reading that Without further ado please give them the most enormous welcome and Yuval Noah Harari. (audience applauding) - Thank you, thank you. I'm so honored to be here talking to you, and thank you for pouring So we talked about how the between us, may be for other people, would be that we both were born in Israel. So I'm interested in how have influenced you as a - I think we were both of the world, like a introducing extremely powerful stories for good and for bad. And when you live in such a place, you just cannot ignore the enormous power of the human imagination, to move the world. So I guess that, you know, the same books even if I had maybe not, but certainly I think that living in a place where at least recently people have been killing each other by the millions over fictional stories makes you see the world - No absolutely, and that aspect of with what you talk about and of course what I do in filmmaking telling stories. And I'm interested in what you in history and historical, together too. - Well now certainly with the Holy Land for the factory of the world, and it's almost as powerful. And yeah I mean it's really in the end the economists and the soldiers, they are to realize something that came And this is also why there is so, I think there is a huge responsibility on the shoulders of and actors and artists that you think that oh we just entertain people, but this is not the case. It goes much, much more deeply. It provides the kind of to make sense of their individual lives and of their collective create a very good world create a very problematic world, and the human ability to create fictions on the one hand is responsible achievements as a species, that we have done to ourselves to other animals that as far as we know I would say one of the we know between us and the other animals that they can't create but their lives and by the stories that this is able to tell and believe. - Can you talk more that storytelling has made us survive or how that has helped humans to thrive? Like how's it been a - It simply enables cooperation. I mean the key issue is how do you get complete strangers to trust one another. Trust one another enough and to cooperate can or to build an army or to build a hospital or to build a school. In all cases you're dealing cooperating towards a common goal, and the trust is again in the end trust is always based on so thousands of years ago, two strangers meet in the jungle, and they want to trade instead of fight. So they don't know each other, so how do you trust You realize that you're actually family. You have some mythical ancestor that hey your ancestor So we are actually both, we are both descendants of Abraham. We have the same ancestor. We are actually brother and sister and once you get over that hurdle we are not now strangers. I mean in reality we are strangers. We don't know anything about each other, but in our imagination we We belong to the same family, and then we can trust, and if this sounds very, very primitive then you just need to take of most countries today in the world, and you will see the same Like if in the United States and you meet a stranger, and you want to buy bread And you take out this piece of paper, hey you see this ancestors you know, we are the same. And because we both we can trust each other and it works. And it works when the story about Jesus and God and whatever, and it can work when the And you know it's not a I travel a lot around the somebody very often we try that we both watched. Hey I also watched it. So suddenly we kind of like, you know we have some common story - What's the difference between a story that people believe in and a story that people just watch and know is fictional, but relate to in some way like a TV show in terms of like a connecting tissue. - There is no clear line. I mean the the whole thing by being a bit cloudy When we think about it or philosophically, we think quite clearly into, okay there is fiction and there is reality but usually they just get mixed together, and when you watch a if the movie is good, you forget it's just a fictional story. If you constantly remember hey it's just actors, they and shoot it again and again and again. And then stitched it together and then it's not a good movie. You are not really getting and it's the same with To really enjoy it you at least 90 minutes that fictional rules that who said, that the most important into into the goal, who said? If you think like that So you need to, you know it's like the first almost any art school or It's suspension of disbelief. - Yeah it's always mysterious that when there's a fictional book that seems too autobiographical, everyone says oh it's just It's not really fiction and that's nonfiction, but it people say oh they're straying from it, and it's like of course everything is some version of fiction. - I remember I think it was in the UK a couple of years ago, They wanted to stage like the Harry Potter and they wanted to have a And there was this huge &quot;Hermione is white.&quot; And people went over I think the entire seven volumes, it's seven right? - [Natalie] I think. - The entire seven volumes just one place where the that something about on a moonlit night and her white skin, something like that, they found the one place that and no you have You don't mind people You don't mind you know all these things, but no, no, no she has to be white. (Natalie laughs) - Yeah I love, you write in religions tend toward from their texts. That if you look in old you can find very erotic passages and even images in-- - [Yuval] In synagogues. - In synagogues and yet is all about female modesty. Why do you think that so many religions, so many people within the conservative facts as that they can find in the past that is more loose or open - It's a kind of arms race that everybody wants to and more pious than the other, and there is this tendency I am the closer I am to God somehow. But he's very strict. So you see along the centuries that you draw a line and then you draw a line just behind it, just So nobody crosses this line. We will draw another line just on and it gets you know like with, as you said in the ancient that were excavated by archeologists, you often find images of women on the floors in mosaics and on the walls. I mean today in at least in Israel, it would be to have any, I mean in many you can't even have, when it's only men and boys. Like there was a famous case for a new neighborhood or something. So you know you have these new houses and then happy families it was just men and boys. Because you can't show, you can't show, and when to the rabbis who wrote they prayed in synagogues with and on the walls, and so yes you have this escalating arms race. - And you talk also use of metaphor in religion compared to meditative practice where you as opposed to in religion or the salt water and Passover for Jews is the tears of slaves where Why do you feel that appreciating the thing for the thing it is is more helpful for you in meditation than its kind of comparison and religion? - Well in the meditation practice, at least the meditation I just being able to to really tell the and what is just stories generated by my mind or but you know people lives just within metaphors and fictions and never getting a and also I think leaving as a story and I kind of because what often happens they get solidified and rarefied and people forget where they came from. To give an example like you know, in religion so people talk and eternity, but what is eternity? What is salvation? It's too difficult for and certainly to attain you have say a building, the Wailing Wall, the Western Wall which stands as a metaphor for eternity, as a metaphor for salvation the temple and okay so you for this abstract very of eternity or for salvation, but what happens next? People forget it's just a metaphor. They rarefy the metaphor. The temple really is salvation. The temple really is eternity and then what do you want to do? You want to possess eternity. Suddenly you can. If I can just get hold or I have eternity. I have salvation and then over these things, forgetting that hey this was just a metaphor. Don't take it so serious. And it happened thousands of years ago. It happens today, but you know like temples or synagogues right now, is in the end it's It's the idea that you go to a place and you experience peace in your life, you have a lot or hate or whatever and there is a place that you can go and experience about yourself and also And this is like you of a temple or a mosque or a synagogue, but then what happens is become factories of hatred. Instead of going there people start fighting over these places you know which is very strange because you know this is Like you have a car factory You don't want it. So you have a peace factory produces wars and you It's broken. - There's there's a thing in psychology that you probably have heard about where people who are depressed Like if you tell them a story, they will recount it more accurately and people who are not depressed to make it more optimistic. Make things better so about how like being unrealistic actually is a way to make yourself happier. Do you find that taking reality as reality what you're talking about seeing stones as stones and breath is breath is a bleaker vision of the world? - It takes out some of the color yes, but it brings back I think because in the end you in the world we experience them every day. Consciousness is probably the greatest mystery in the universe. And it's not some special experience of place or whatever. Just to understand pain, to understand the experience of boredom, if we could really understand that this is the most interesting and the most amazing thing we know about in the entire universe, is this really miracle of consciousness and so I don't think the big things of the Yeah there is a tendency of the big things to be eventually very banal that I don't know, I was a This was like my first as a historian my special crusader history. And I kept reading these in 1096, all these leaving Europe to go to the Holy Land and conquer Jerusalem. And they had these that when we will get to Jerusalem the most amazing thing like the end of time, the And eventually it was just so banal like they fought and for four terrible years and sieges and battles and and slaughtered all its the holy places and you know They woke up next day, they ate breakfast, they fought with one another. Somebody had stomach ache. It was just so banal. - The use of fiction backs and being a historian is and I wonder if you ever intentionally use Like for example someone told me I studied psychology if many of my examples but Oliver Sacks the sort some of his case studies, are not realistic, like who has a disorder that they can't, they kind of recognize and they mistake a fire And they said that would you could still see the shape move and if something's not it's not a child. It's completely unrealistic Sachs about it and he said of course but you give an example that's so clear that people remember it in their mind so for medical students it's a much better example even if it's not really factually accurate because they'll remember someone, they'll be like Now is there any equivalent something that might have a little fiction that you acknowledge but round your point? - There is always the temptation because it works very well. To a certain extent yes all historians do it all the time, because we use stories and reality is just not built like a story. If you just try to tell reality as it is then you end up I don't know like the stream-of-consciousness happening and nobody can, almost Or remember what is happening. It's just our fortune and that we think in stories, so if you want to make a point you have to take the messiness of reality and cast it as a story. Otherwise people don't understand, and we have now all these about for example climate change, that how to make the what is happening, what is the enormity of the crisis we are facing. What is the evidence supporting it, what should we do? And the problem is that scientists, including climate scientists, they think in facts, in in equations, in graphs, all the things that make Or just not get it. If you really want to make change, you need a story. So from this perspective and even again you don't, I mean there is a step further, which I try to avoid as much as possible, which in order to make let's invent some of the facts. Let's change some of the facts because it serves a good cause, and it will be a better and this is a constant temptation that I can't promise that I never seen but I try not to. I try if the story is complicated so okay so it will be a bit more complicated. - Well one of the things that has most impacted me from your writing was an article that you wrote for the Guardian that is also About the Theater of Terrorism. And I bring it up in every Because I was really surprised and completely shifted you showed that the spectacle of 9/11 was the Twin Towers coming down and not the Pentagon, which you know target that was hit that day. But the spectacle, this visual, across the world and then for positives, for something like how can we use that and how impactful it is in a positive way as opposed - Yes so you know you have which is the iconic And it's a very powerful image. Now of course climate change I mean it's also about them, but it's not the only thing, and still this is that iconic image because again this goes This is how the apes see their language, if you just facts you lose them. And you know the big in the struggle for attention and attention is now may resource in the world, and you have all these, a lot today in the world, they're actually struggles for attention. And again unfortunately background, there is more than violence. So staging a spectacle the attention of people of the media more than anything else. This is like the simple the whole phenomena of, the And they understood it and they use it. They create a spectacle of violence. They kill a handful of fear for their lives. It's extremely effective. It hijacks our brains. It hijacks our own - How do you think that is - State violence is very You actually sometimes It's not about, the fear is a by-product, but it's not the main thing. Actually very often it's the opposite. When states use tremendous in many cases they try to hide it. No, no, no nothing is happening. Don't look here, don't look here. We don't want reporters. We don't want journalists. Terrorists it's just the opposite. Usually terrorism is the They can't use violence on a large scale. They would like to, but they just can't. So they have just this and then they try to call Come see, all the journalists, TV camera, oh wonderful come here. We have a spectacle of in every TV set around the country. So it works very differently. The states are really powerful. Very often, they're really powerful. They don't want to draw - And you write about a little bit about how has achieved this change much violence and how unusual that is. What do you think, why do you Why do you think, I mean very far to go, but why do you And why do you think it was - First we really need to and think about the, that the feminist revolution has done over the last century. And we saw little violence, smaller changes in human society during history which required violence, and this you all over the world different political systems, and which is the subjugation It's the patriarchal system. To the degree that many this is just natural and eternal. It's just the way things and then within a relatively short time historically speaking of a century or two and with very, very little violence a tremendous change has happened. And we don't really understand Partly because we also as as historians, we find the patriarchal system in the first place. Many people think that to the question why in human societies, women and political and And actually we don't have a good theory. - I have one (laughs). I don't know if it's good. Well it seems like it superiority, can I say that? Not superiority but the the center of creation, you're (audience laughing) To control the means of reproduction you have to have some sort - It may be quite obvious why men would like to women's sexuality. What is not clear is how Because we have other species relatives in nature the bonobo chimpanzees in which maybe the bonobo the female bonobos, but they just can't. In bonobo society, networks dominate the society. Now lots of people have that men are simply stronger physically. So you know it's a no brainer but actually this is a because when you look at human societies, there is no consistent match between physical strength and In many cases there is like in most societies and 70s dominate people in their 20s even though people in their If you look at organizations, whether it's the Catholic Church, whether it's the Mafia, so very often the Pope is not the strongest Catholic around. It's not like they had this of all the catabolic males in the world, and Francis defeated all the competition, so he's now Pope. Even in criminal organizations very often the the Capo di tutti capi, the big boss he could be a man in his 60s who doesn't go around beating people up but he has the power to tell go and kill this guy and they obey. And usually social power The ability to build alliances. The abilities to reach The ability to understand what either in order to reach beware of a trap and at least I will be happy to hear but folk psychology usually than men in all these the viewpoint of somebody else, what I think and what I want. So if if this is true, and but if it is true that women or at least some social then why is it that human these self-centered males and not by women with their superior and which compromises and so forth because again if you male bonobos are significantly stronger than female bonobos, but the males don't have strong networks very strong networks, and this is what enables - And so no one has come - There's an entire the origins of the patriarchal system, and why it has been so and why is it shaking and there is no shortage of theories but there we are very far from having an evidence-based theory, which is accepted by the - That's, I wanna talk You have a really that talks about how fake news And I'm interested in how you think this sort of biblical fake news that you've sort of touched upon is different than today's misinformation campaigns. - Well misinformation and propaganda have been there throughout history, the means are different. Again religion is an obvious place to go, and even religious people except one, are fake news. My religion is of course the truth. You go ask a Jew then yes Judaism is the truth, but Christianity you know being the Son of God this is all fake news don't believe that. Then you go to the Christian priest, he will tell you, no, no, no, no, this is honest-to-god truth. But all these stories of the Muslims about Muhammad being visited and the Quran being this is all fake news. And you ask the Muslim, he will say the same thing And you don't really need the to spread fake news. People you know they blame and all that but if you live a thousand years ago, so you don't have a smartphone, but somebody comes along and the old woman who lives by the forest? I just saw her flying on a broomstick. And within an hour you would with torches and pitchforks ready to burn this woman to death. So this is you know fake And so the means of spreading and creating the fake news change, but the phenomenon has been there throughout human history. - Right, the part of the and basically our how to manipulate us, so that our technology can so that we're almost it was very scary to me. And I was interested how this has been a phenomenon forever. Why this is actually scarier than someone come into your village? Like why is this different if and we've always thought our own decisions were our own decisions but a lot of people manipulating Why is this different? - Because up till now the manipulation was rather rudimentary. Nobody could really inside your brain, so you and folk sociology for thousands of years. You know which kind of stories make people do what kind of things, and unscientific and this could really get inside your brain and inside your mind because well enough and nobody you know to gather all hours a day and analyze it. I mean even if you lived during Stalin or during Brezhnev era and you had the KGB follow you around 24 hours a day, the KGB didn't have the kind And the KGB did not have So you know you have all that we gathered for years, but who can read all that and analyze it? Now it's a completely different situation. We are beginning to have and enough computing power, history somebody, some corporations, some governments could be in a position to hack human beings in a systematic and large-scale manner, somebody out there will know me better than I know myself and you know yourself. Now again it's not completely new. There were cases before you better than you know yourself. Very often we call this person mother. (all laughing) When I was you know three my mother knew me better Understood my quirks what's good for me and And the good thing is that in most cases if you don't grow up then your mother has your best interests. So it's good that she know yourself because as a three-year-old you won't survive otherwise. - You're not angry, you're hungry. That's my rule for my kids. - But the problem is what and the president tells you That's far more sinister than when it comes from your mother. Or when Amazon tells you, you're not really angry, You need to eat this, trust me. - [Natalie] Buy this yeah. - Yeah and this is what we are going to, and it's not you know Actually I think that science enough about this point, and novels that deal with it, but I think personally that the most important genre today, because it prepares people for dealing with the new challenges of but it usually focuses like the scenario of the and the robots coming to kill us. It is very unlikely. I'm far more concerned about and to sell us stuff, that the robots are - They've already come to sell us stuff. - And they know how to So they're very good at selling us stuff. - So do we throw away our smartphones? Is that the, does that help us? Does it save us? - No I mean it's impossible much of the new technology We don't want to give that the internet and smartphones I met my husband on the Internet. So I don't want to give it up. The internet has been good to me. But like with every technology, we need to make it serve our purposes instead of us serving its purposes. The problem is that for the first time we have a technology that can understand our purposes better than we do and can therefore manipulate it without our even realizing it. We have all this still myth of free will that everything we choose and this is a myth that served us well for a couple of centuries but because when people they make reflects why Oh this is my free will, then you are very uncurious inside your brain, inside your mind, and what kind of buttons and you know as long as with your brain and your mind, then you can believe in free will and there is no harm, but once somebody has privileged access to your inner reality and it's not you. It's some corporation or government, then belief in free will The easiest people to who are convinced that their decision, I decided if it's my free will. - Okay but if you don't then how can you even the choice to be free of - No we have choices all the time. We have a will, we have We just don't choose Our choices in this sense, they are not free. They are the result of an genetic, environmental, and So you know a lot of people in free will then I will and starve to death because but actually I find this that the next thought the next desire that pops up in the mind, instead of rushing to identify with it, this is me, I chose it. You actually become more curious, hey where did this come from? Is it really my desire or was it planted or influenced by something-- - It sounds like schizophrenia, to be like this is not my idea. That someone implanted it in my brain, like the government put - Yeah but you know what was is becoming reality. And it's becoming (mumbles). - I need something stronger than water. I need like I need a whiskey or something. - So you know nobody I mean I don't know how to deal with it. I just know that we have as whereas we enter an era black boxes, in which it is for all kinds of entities. Again could be corporations, could be various organizations. To constantly monitor not our smartphones, hack our brains, our personality. They can know which, it's not science fiction. You have today corporations whose advertisement campaigns are like precision-guided munitions. Like we need to find 16 year old girls with low self-esteem. This is the ideal and we now have an algorithm that can sift through big data gathered from YouTube and Facebook and whatever and we can locate the with low self-esteem that we And this is not science fiction. This is happening all the time. You know Analytica and to the political implications and personally I think it's because it was a kind of wake-up call, and we still have time not a lot of time, but we still have some time To realize what is the these kinds of technologies - And you talk about kind of approaching these issues, and also corporations sort of philosophers on staff ethicists, to deal with you know the and things like that, sort of committee or what for these tech companies in to be responsible if they which I would hope many of them do. - Well it needs to come in We definitely need government about these things and many they can't be regulated on or a single country. You need international of the most dangerous technologies. Otherwise it wouldn't work because nobody would like to stay behind in an AI arms race. There is a lot of things that engineers and technicians It's just you know which At present a lot of these algorithms, they survey of corporations and governments. This is the usual direction, but there is nothing about technology that prevents us from of surveillance mechanisms. For example a big data AI algorithm that surveys the government to make sure there is no corruption. You like surveillance so much why don't we survey you? No, no, no, this is the red line, this no. And similarly you know you have all these big tech companies designing, to monitor and survey us. You can design an AI sidekick that, yes it gets to know me even It gets to know my unique weaknesses but in order to protect me that are trying to get me. There is no technical in that direction and just for your computer, that at computer from all these and so forth we can have from all these other AIs and to manipulate me. It's just a question with the new technologies. - But you also wrote the thing about how we're very good and not very good at I'm paraphrasing poorly. You can probably elaborate more on it, but I'm just wondering if we accept that you know we can create is gonna be a great thing and then becomes the biggest We think we're doing something that will help people and or you know Twitter the expressed regret over to everybody quickly and obviously it's become very, although positive in other ways too. How do we create things when have such negative impacts There is no easy solution to that. It's a question of that it's far simpler to manipulate things than to understand them. We sometimes naively think something you need to but it's totally not the case. It's much easier for example than to understand the and all the different Or like the example that that yes plants need more Wonderful we have this to the plants, but it not very easy but to synthesize this particular fertilizer, but to understand what when large quantities of this into the ocean year after year fish and to the octopuses and this is so much more complicated. And it's the same with Twitter every technology, there is this huge gap between manipulation and understanding. And I think the worst danger on this front is that we are about to gain the ability to manipulate the human and the human mind long the full complexity So we are likely to start our internal reality without really understanding the full consequences which could lead to just as we now face an ecological disaster we might face a kind in the world inside us. And you know we are now conducting beginning to conduct these of people and billions of the consequences for example We just don't know. We hope it will be okay. W hope we will middle through and so far you know so far so good, but we just really don't know. - Something that you write the sort of central is eliminating suffering. And then you also write very, you quote extensively and impactfully from Brave New World about how the Soma, the drug kind of takes worthwhile in life, you know and takes away so much art and so much of what makes life life. And obviously there's such epidemic now and how obviously pain, but obviously it's also for us in the US. How do you reconcile that to alleviate human suffering and of course other animal suffering with the necessity, I mean I believe in the necessity of having a spectrum that without the possibility of that love of breaking up. You can't experience the the threat of mortality. In my mind I mean maybe that's an opinion as opposed to a truth, but reconcile those. - The huge difference very often suffering is I mean pain is a particular sensation in the body. Suffering is generated by the mind. Very often in reaction The pain is pain, okay The suffering is when my I want to get rid of this pain, and it's still there and and this I want to get rid of it. There is something in reality and I don't want it to be in reality but it's there. This is the generation of suffering, so it's something very If we just learn how it's still painful but at goes away and it's the same I mean if you're sad and your mind goes I don't want to be sad. I want to be happy, I want to be joyful, then the sadness also and then you also have the temptation, let's take something to Let's take a pill let's watch a movie, let's run away from the sadness. And you're not only generating suffering for yourself in doing so, you're also missing a large part of life. Life is definitely not just about joy and not just about pleasure. It's also about pain and sadness, they have a lot to teach us. There can be a lot for example of depth in sadness and if you just just run away whenever then you're missing a large part of life. So when I talk about alleviating suffering I don't mean just let's find some pill that makes all the and all the anger and just disappear from the world. It won't work and if it does work well it will be a very than the one we know. - I'm also interested in how being able to create art or AI and play chess creatively, but those examples are obviously very sort of mathematical examples. Do you think that extends to other arts that are less mathematical? Like writing a poem or you - Well it really goes to and I would be very happy to hear, I mean I've been talking all the time and I would be very happy to hear what you think about it but a very common understanding is that art is about inspiring human emotions, but in the end whether it's painting, whether it's theater, whether or music or anything, to the human experience. We want to inspire maybe maybe anger, maybe fear, you go to a horror you go to a comedy, the a particular human emotion. Now if it is true that that all artists are playing on is the human emotional system, which is the human biochemical system. There is a chance that artists in the world, in I know how to press to produce joy. You want to feel sad, I know keyboard to produce sadness. Maybe art is not about but if it is there is in the not-too-distant future computers will be so good in that human artists will find it difficult to compete with them. And this is where I would views on about both is it to inspire you in emotions and if it is, does it mean that maybe will be out of work? - (laughs) You know I don't enough to understand if to really replace art. Of course for music it seems plausible because music is so much pattern and math. It seems less plausible to me of course that something like that seems much more visceral, and not something that could of an algorithm and be as effective as. But I don't know and that you say that consciousness is this sort of mystery, but that emotion is this sort How does that separate and how which is also sort of a mystery but maybe somehow connects and it's sort of woven like some layered thing. How does that relate something that can be hacked and something is a complete mystery? - Yeah I don't know I mean We don't understand so we don't understand but we do again this is the and understanding. We don't understand the mind, but we become extremely We do know how to produce emotions with greater and greater certainty, both in human collectives the degree you know the most extreme cases is when in all kinds of medical procedures you implant electrodes in people's brains, and you can like with almost you know that the doctor or and the person feels joy or fear, and then the mind generates like we know the answer why you felt fear because doctor X just pressed this button and it is connected by an to the center of the field So this is why you felt fear, but the mind, no, no, no, there is something This person looks to me very shady and it comes up with a story. And so we don't, again I don't understand, we don't understand, - Right which is, I always you know when you fall asleep. That's just a spinal cord reflex but somehow our brain makes the story that in our dream that we're falling that makes us feel like we're having that because of the story but your spine first and it goes right back to like our narrative tendencies that our narrative our own body's reflexes Like that behavior precedes intention as opposed to intention - Yeah and the danger is that you can manipulate you know the political Because we know from in order to get a population you basically need to hijack their, not just their fear system, but their disgust. Throughout history you see again and again this trick that the first or persecuting or exterminating a group is you feel disgust towards them. Now disgust, the mechanism evolution to protect us against disease against sources of or an open wound or a corpse and things like that, but then humans in history discovered that you can actually hijack and direct them not towards but against disgusting people, and again and again you see in history that people like are - [Natalie] Metaphor again. they are like cancer. They are a source of pollution, so you know even very like women have often been considered a source of pollution in many religions. Why can't a woman be a rabbi? Why can't a woman be a priest? Women are a source of pollution. - Why can't you shake hands with a woman? - Yeah and this is hijacking. There is real pollution in the world. You know again feces, this is pollution, but woman isn't. But people have found disgust mechanisms in the brain, and you know 20 years from now, you can do that in a very precise way to individuals and make them really feel disgust towards whatever you want them to be disgusted by, and this is extremely dangerous. - Yeah there's something that's very related there. I'm sure you know about this, there's sort of tracking They track where your eyes or films can make different depending on what they unconsciously so that I think it's who's developing it, but one of my friends was telling me that it was just presented to her attention even you don't realize the story will gear towards him, whereas if another in watching the cute little dog, the story will go and follow them. And it'll be kind of a but based on your things that you, this kind of storytelling. And it's something that's the narratives and the obviously being read all over the world. Movies and television from much more widely because if, but then there's also sort because there's so much access, but there's just so much more content too. So how do you feel that that that might now be targeted towards people will affect the way people because in a way you have a with someone in China, but you also have much less of a chance of maybe connecting to with someone next to you, because there's now five - Yeah that's a very interesting question and a very interesting development. I don't really know, I in history has been for thousands of years that there are fewer and fewer stories that more and more people share. If you think for example about mythology, so you know 5000 years ago, you have a different mythology in almost every village and every valley. And then gradually a very small number of mythological stories And we constantly see them and Even in non-religious the basic metaphors and for understanding the world. Like I don't know I think I which I really like the books, so but some kind of a disappointment that what will happen in the end. I want to know how will it end, and then what happens in the end. He dies, he comes back to life. - Spoiler (laughs). - He defeats the, saved the world. I'm sure I heard it somewhere before. You know it's not a really original story. In the end we go for the and this was not like that 5000 years ago. You had so many different versions and it's the same way as fairy tales. When the Grimm brothers they went about collecting So there were like 200 Like every grandmother in every village told the different story, and the Grimm brothers they decided okay, grandmother are from this village, this will be the canonical And now you have, I don't that know this story, just this one story. Just this one version. So we had this constant fewer and fewer stories and we are now seeing a breakup for example that if 20 years ago certainly in the 1980s, we just had one channel. So everybody saw the same show. There was nothing else. And now you have different watching very different shows. Where is it going? We'll wait and see. - We're going to, we just that's been so fascinating. I wish we could have gone on for hours. I've had hundreds of questions I think we've covered quite a few of them. so I think we're only going to manage two, possibly three at the very most, but one and there's been a and a lot of people have So there's a question from who says in your opinion what Me Too at this specific time in history? And Natalie we'd love to - Well Tarana Burke who clearly utilized technology that gave I think really gave women a sense of solidarity and And we're seeing it today with the very emotionally in Washington, in my country, which is very, very difficult to watch. But also very inspiring of people who have been silenced and that you know I think and then it becomes a movement. And then people realize each other and protecting I think also, it was a revelation because not just women were silent that I think so people didn't And people thought they were alone and the technology actually there were others like them, and not only others like with the same perpetrator, and I think also once silence could potentially they started to come out and that their speaking out could who had come forward to they also bravely came it is still so devastating Their lives are extremely they're terrorized, they're harassed. They have horrible, horrible repercussions for coming forward still And so it's very disheartening that women are coming or to get attention or to, no one's hired anyone about a claim. So you really see the kind of sisterhood and solidarity and a decision to say that this is unacceptable and I think even to people who behavior I don't think anyone and that's been something in some of the women and men but some of the some people's reaction or It's a bad date and that how ubiquitous it is. Not that it's okay but cultural disease that we are If every woman has had a date aggressive with her, that leave at some point, Like that's a problem that and that doesn't mean that who have done that. It means that we we need for everyone and show and those who identify in between that behavior is no longer something that we're comfortable of the other person and about the other person's desire. Sorry that was a speech, sorry. (audience applauding) - [Moderator] Do you wanna - I don't know why it started just now. Could have started you in terms of the necessity. Probably wouldn't have been I would just say that these people who say What I'm curious about whether urge well I must right now, I must write something it's gone too far, did you five years ago wrote to say that sexual If not then why the sudden This is what I don't understand. - I think we're going about five minutes, but And it's somebody who likes It's from God, and it says had a positive or negative Score it one to five where one is very bad and five is very good. (Natalie laughing) So both of you have to answer this one. (audience applauding) - Oh God, no you please. - I don't know, two. (all laughing) It's done some good definitely. I don't think that I A lot of the morality of humanity of art, of again the ability to make and cooperate is due to but they've also done a and certainly not all in terms of the amount of that they have done, but and also today, I don't think full morality or full In the end morality is about reducing suffering in the world. You don't need to believe in order to act morally. You need to have deep I do think that we need in all times, in all cases and religion are totally different things. They are almost the Spirituality is about questions and religion is about answers. Spirituality is when you like what is consciousness or what is the meaning of life or who And you go on a quest to find out the answer to this question, and you have the courage, the willingness to go wherever this question takes you, because it's very important to you. Religion is about answers. It's when somebody comes You must believe that. If not you will burn in and this invites the And I think that in the 21st century, we need probably spirituality because a lot of spiritual questions and philosophical questions practical questions. Questions about free will, about what is the meaning of humanity? What does it mean to be human? Which you know people argue but had very little immediate implications what you think is just you know Suddenly it becomes a because we are able or to start reengineering humans. So a question like what does mean, what is the essence of being human? It moves from the realm to the realm of engineering. And this is why we need to engage with these kinds of questions far like Google and Facebook and so forth, I think they really need philosophers. And they really need to understand what they are doing. Our religion on the other hand I think it has done whatever have done for humanity. And it's now losing more It's still very important but most of its traditional roles, I mean in the past religion you know determined agriculture and medicine. If you are sick you go to the priests. If there is no rain you and all these things have and technology and the and what is left is really for human groups. And in this religion is now mostly harmful I think because instead of the main thing it does at present is to support tribalism and nationalism and prevent greater human collaboration. (audience applauding) - I think we might actually but thank you so much. That was the most fascinating, You are both titans of intellect. Can I ask you just to give them all both a huge round of applause? (audience applauding)