The future of humanity seems insecure. our greed and failings make it hard to look at people think our end is in sight. But humans have generation assumes they're important enough to This is a problem because it and prevents us from creating the best world this worse is that we may actually BE living at To understand why, let us look at the When will the last human be born and These sorts of estimates come with a them with a gigantic grain of salt. To get let us see how many have already lived. Modern They were uniquely good at thinking abstractly, planning and working together Still there were not that many of us. Surpluses life expectancy was low. It took us 150,000 Improvements were gradual and eventually arguably the biggest change in our history. growing. It took ten thousand more years to get by the industrial revolution. In 1800 there doubled in just 120 years and then again in In total, over the last two hundred thousand years and 109 billion also died. Which means that right now. As many as were born in the first 270 babies join the party. But there are not just and well off, or lived longer. With growing The UN estimates that around the year 2100 will be 125 million people born each year. stay stable forever, but let's pretend How many people there will be in the future And here we find a lot of uncertainties. our own inventions - but we are also able to We can change the direction of planet killer We discovered antibiotics but also carry diseases industrial system gave us an incredible standard process. It is very hard to say if human ingenuity If things go badly our end could come we could conceivably stick around for a long may mean life for an unfathomable number of It depends on how far our Scenario 1: Humans will never leave Earth If we stay on our home planet, a good metric that we get from the fossil record. The in the region of 1 million years, with Our close relative homo erectus Let us be conservative and assume that humans us 800,000 more years to dawdle away. Assuming a this means there are roughly 100 850 times greater than the number This would make everybody alive today only Think about where this leaves you. Instead mess that was our past, it would mean you The start of the human story rather than the And now consider that this may be If we match the survival time of the most rise to 1.2 quadrillion people that have yet to be As the sun slowly gets hotter and brighter, earth giving so many more potential people And now let's begin to think big. Scenario 2: Humans will leave Earth We went from humans worshipping so who knows how much farther we can go? If we ideas that seem outlandish right If we believe that we have a chance of then we could expand onto the other planets three things: a surface, resources and energy. Our Sun provides energy for billions of years and the asteroid and kuiper belt that we could Instead of living on planets, we could decide to With resources and energy so abundant, we could life. An interconnected civilization spanning the for an absurd number of individuals, orders of if it only existed for a few million years. This fiction likes to paint it. With quadrillions of of doctors working on curing cancer, billions billions of video game developers making life Another upside of leaving earth and spreading become extinct, as you need a solar system So aside from nearby supernovae humanity would be relatively safe from If we manage to survive for that long, slow into multiple species, or we might intentionally So to account for that, we'll just talk Ok. Now let us think really big. Szenario 3: People leave the Solar System As enormous as the solar system is, it is just If future people can colonize, say, 100 billion each generating 100 million births per year, then lives to be lived in the future. This is a 1 with We can spin this up as much as we like. The adding another trillion stars for us to settle. years and future civilizations might even find A sufficiently advanced civilization of our galaxy groups. While these numbers are mind unborn people by many orders of magnitude. If we the average energy needs of a single person, A million, trillion, trillion, Conclusion Hopefully what has become evident is that few centuries or millennia, almost all humans Which brings us back to us, in the present. with incredible possibilities at our grasp. What we do matters for all the So while it is not en vogue to think optimism - or to think about it at all -, If we screw up the present, so many Quadrillions of unborn humans are at our mercy. the unborn are by far the largest group of people be born in a thousand or even a million years This is why it is important to think about the why it matters what we do today. One day the But if we change our perspective from to us living at the very beginning we can and for them but also for HUGE announcement: we are launching Kurzgesagt in French, Hindi, Japanese and Korean, on top of our new perspectives and a love for science to as languages that are underserved because If enough people watch our new channels, we This is where we need YOUR help. It takes us a our videos properly and run so many channels us spread the word!If you are a native in one of and tell your friends and family - make people This multi language expansion is an organization that tries to do as much good as of science, and ideas for how YOU can help ours in many fundamental ways so we are going to So please help us spread the word