You're watching a Mathologer video, so that Srinivasa Ramanujan, one of the most You are probably also familiar with his and so on is equal to -1/12. If check out my video about this. Ramanujan mathematicians, for this strange infinite radical and he says it's equal to 3 which is very, very pretty. So he says 3 is equal to square root of Well, yes, and 9 is equal to 1 plus 8, 8 is equal to 2 times 4, 4 is equal to square root of 16, 16 is equal to and 5 of course is equal to square this continues. But let's just do one more, 25 4 times 6 and 6 is equal to square root of expressions that we've seen here they're since this continues on forever he says itself is equal to 3. And that sounds figure out that you can do exactly the one too. So, here we go. So 3 is equal to square root of 16 right and now Ramanujan Well square root of 16 I can okay, so 1 plus 2. Now here he rewrites like actually go on forever just like pushing numbers ahead of us, here it's But they're always going to be there and infinite expression is 3 then you should also accept that the Well then of course we are in trouble here, so it seems that even famous get it a little bit wrong. Well okay we'll have a look. Ramanujan was expressions and he was a real master of sums like this there's infinite products, one up here is very funny. If you haven't video by heart in which she talks about expressions and this one is supposed to If you haven't watched that video you course there's this fraction here that a Just recently I did a video where I this infinite fraction, just like radical starting with 3 but then I also thing starting with 2 just like I radical from 4. Ok and then I asked to 2. And we got a lot of really good covered, really good comments but i sense of all these infinite expressions come across one of those infinite The very first thing you have to realize start with their completely meaningless. know exactly what to do with any of them one of those expression asks you to do with it's not clear what that actually minds what that's supposed to mean, executing an operation infinitely often. want to figure out whether it's actually actually a nice trick that can help you want to show you this trick. It doesn't apply to all of these infinite them, all these periodic ones basically. sort of thing. Looks pretty, but Well, let's see so this guy here I don't something. Let's call it &quot;r&quot; for root, this &quot;p&quot; for product. Right, now have a close look whole thing itself, so we've got the &quot;r&quot; rewrite this as &quot;r&quot;. That gives me an me a quadratic equation. I solve it minus square root of 5 divided by 2. A closer look shows that one of these numbers positive, one is negative. Nothing negative in sight here, so if it's actually this one here is of course a ratio now here I've got my motivation, I've I've got the golden ratio on the other side are these somehow equal in some sense. So in and well let's just do it again for also see that you can rewrite like this supposed to be, that infinite expression it of this equation. Again it's basically a 1 and 2 which was a bit sneaky of me they would be applying it and so at that well it doesn't give me anything new these things from 1 and 2 and then because 2 times 2 times 2 times 2 well shouldn't have any value, but let's say we're just going to follow our nose here and now we ask what's a number that there's only one of them, 0, so you're not prediction 0 here. Doesn't really matter right sides here tell me I really want to you you've got to be careful with these sorts of things. Ok so now how do expressions. Let's look at a fairly supposed to add infinitely many bits don't know what to do, but at least I can adding so we've got 1 ok then i add 1/2 gets me this guy and I just are called partial sums of this infinite actually it's easy to see there's a nice on. Also, these are increasing and they are than all of them and 2 is actually the these guys here. Now have a look at this guy here. So we don't really know what it is but if it corresponds to a also be greater than all of these. Now I this and you see, well, really, the only number that really qualifies here is 2 so now we actually define the sum of this guy That's us doing it so we are actually giving this a meaning and we're doing so get an infinite series, translate it the sequence converted to a number? If the sum of the infinite series. If not to maybe try something else something approach, there is also non-standard for that check out to 1+2+3... video. Puzzle fraction fraction what do we do with this one? Well, again, we'll just start calculating. result here is 2/3. Do another one that like this and again we see a nice pattern sequence converging to 1 and so, obviously, this should be equal to 1. it's a reasonable way of assigning a value to when you really think about it there's different and reasonable way of associating a let's have a look. Well if we stop calculating here, then we stop there well 2 divided by 3 minus 2 is 2 again and if actually all the numbers that fall out guy here converges to 2 and so another way of would be 2 and actually if you're the then, you know, there's no real preference reasonable ok but in this case you're not the first have been looking at it for hundreds of internet fractions here and within that first way of chopping up of generating it's applicable, it's useful, it's just of associating a number is not it. So, by default, if somebody shows you an context of the larger theory, the answer just in general, if you are facing an a couple of different ways of associating reasonable. What about Ramanujan's calculate. Chop of here, okay, chop of there and keep on going like this come across here. Well these numbers are The pattern is not as apparent as it with seems that we're creeping up to 3 sequence of numbers here converges to Ok so Ramanujan was right about this Is there another way in which you can you can chop off here you, can chop of we do this we actually eventually end up why. With this particular infinite nested radical associating a number to it, one good way and it's 3. Ok so Ramanujan argument he gave was not quite complete. up is actually a puzzle you know just videos, mathematicians sometimes journals. So this was a challenge like other mathematicians to figure out what response so then he had to give his own which you can check out, linked it in in the Actually he gave a second challenge, it's particularly brave today you can try and your mathematical background you can come up with here. And well if that's a out whether this guy here is really equal to the golden ratio or what's all this business with Wow, so is this equal to Wow or what Maybe also have a look at Vi Hart's video infinite expressions and make sense of them. And then maybe finally one of my favorite equations, solve for x, have fun. You're probably calculus specialists and know about infinite products and you know continued fractions. But what about all up anywhere? Apart from these particular Yes, heaps. So let's have a look. So this in terms of this infinite expression now first of all we need to know how we sequence of numbers. So the way we chop The Mandelbrot set is a subset of the inside the Mandelbrot set or is outside inside or outside you can use or you do is a complex number, that's &quot;c&quot; okay now we to making up this infinite sequence of numbers is contained in a finite region of infinity, then the point is inside the sequence of numbers explodes to infinity on how fast they explodes to infinity which then gives you this strange halo see often in pictures. If you actually check know anything about Mandelbrot sets you probably haven't seen this infinite expression here. What So what everybody who knows anything we figure out whether a point is inside or do with this functions is we iterate it and infinite expression. I just show you how this 0. So 0 squared plus c is equal to c. What we get out we just feed into this function again so we have gets fed in again so we square and plus c same thing. Iterating the function is those infinite expressions here. Our trick functions. The answer it actually gives, not really posing. So this guy for those iterated functions, the function is before. That comes up when we set up our So there's the f so there's the function. values we get here that's 1 and 2 those are the fixed that if instead of 0 I initialize with one of of numbers that gets spat out here is very special and actually they are are talking about the infinite particular sort of initialization for maybe three specific ones depending on expression might mean but really what internet sequences and their behavior answer 1 and 2 what it says is that, no sequence of numbers actually converges actually you know 1 and 2 can happen you know you really get 1 as constant answer that we're getting to our lots of answers or a slightly misleading this context, it is a complete answer really for what we're interested in analyze these sorts of things there is a huge beautiful stuff. So, basically, what you values of functions and there's nice we're going to talk about these in look forward to and that's really it for