Joe and I went to Mar-A-Lago to meet It was the first time And it's going to come as no surprise has watched it over the past year that we didn't see eye to eye What we did agree on My father often spoke with world leaders profoundly disagreed. That's a task shared by reporters Well, the hosts over at Morning Joe after they decided to visit Donald Trump for a delightful meal over in the presidential election. Of course, and this is after calling him a dangerous, dictatorial man. Now, they said that they talked including abortion, mass deportations, against political and media opponents. And here's their explanation after years of fear mongering In this meeting, He was upbeat. He seemed interested in finding on some of the most divisive issues. And for those asking why we would go speak times, especially between us, Five years of political warfare has We have been as clear as we know how, about President Trump's actions and words But for nearly 80 million Americans, public trials in January 6th were not to send Donald Trump Joe and I realized And that starts with not only but also talking with him. Now, president elect Donald Trump that this meeting did in fact take place. And in an interview with Fox News, and I very much appreciated the fact that In many ways, it's too bad He added that they congratulated me one for the history books, which I really where I worked long and hard. That's what she said, presidential candidate in history. Now, according to Fox News, an obligation to the American public to be open and available to the press. Admirable thing to say. But then he continues, if not treated The media is very important of the United States of America. Fox and friends also made sure to meet with the Morning Joe crew, And now Mika and Joe are getting a little taste of in just a minute. But before you guys hear you should hear what Jake has to say. - Jake, what are your thoughts? So, look, this was complicated So first, should you reach out Well, of course you should. So I've never understood this thing or on the left say no out of spite. We shouldn't work with Trump on things Why? Why not take the win? Take the win. Right. So if Trump agrees with me on something, because he's Trump or on the other team. That's crazy, right? I would in fact help to try As long as we agree right now. Do you think that Morning Joe and I went there to fight for paid family leave, fight for some policy? No, they went to go fight So all they're doing is kissing So proof's always going to be So you see us, you'll see us criticize on the rare occasions that we agree. And you saw us doing that during all of these years, right? Those guys, on the other hand, Oh, Trump. One time to kiss some ass. Go down to Mar a Lago, ET cetera. And Trump said, well, I'm sure you did. The corporate ones. Rubio, Stefanik, etc.. They were probably like, They're going to be right And as you'll see in a minute. Right. So you think they're going No. They their whole shtick So this is not at all surprising. Scarborough was very friendly for president in 2016. I don't know what exactly happened Scarborough But look, I think that it's likely you're There's also some possibility might come after them, because he has in his words, been unfair to him. So who knows? I mean, look, Mika Brzezinski, breaking down about the prospect because she was so afraid Yeah, no. And I thought the same thing. This is much lower probability They thought, yeah, So let's make sure that we're not part we will serve him loyally Right. And so why did they turn on him? Trump did his usual personal insults ET cetera. And so I don't. Okay, got it right. I don't mind Mika and Joe and Joe That's fine. Nothing wrong with that. And also, they're on MSNBC, so they had In reality, they don't care at all. All they care about is tax and the status quo. And if Trump gives it to them, If the Democrats give it to them, And as long as they're at the epicenter they're happy as they can be. They've never really cared. So here is how everyone else that they had that dinner at Mar-A-Lago. The grotesque. The grotesque, fawning and rationalizing in his words, to be an autocrat. A general who served as Donald Trump's said, yes, he's a fascist. You have Donald Trump, Right. Who is who embraced authoritarian thugs and the most authoritarian leader This is Donald Trump's hero in Europe. This is not a reach. I could go back and talk I do it without any concerns whatsoever. And if people can't start drawing Or you have your head in the sand Do I think that Donald Trump up against the wall and shoot them? No, he'd like to. And no doubt I know him, And we can see this. He would like to he's not going But if he says, I'm going to take the FEC the white House, and I'm going to decide not going to be on TV. Believe him. So all those comments that Mika Brzezinski to the election has now led to people because it's totally justified. Scott Jennings writes on Twitter. Hitler getting a lot more meeting requests You have Republicans against Trump saying the mainstream media anymore. Bingo. Joe and Mika, who constantly attack Lago to talk with Trump over the weekend. And look, They see that this could be is a little more fair to Trump. So Piers Morgan, for instance, says, wow, America needs to come together again. Okay, so I look. You know how I felt about the fear Democrats and, you know, their mouthpieces in cable news just lean into fear. Scare the bejesus He's Hitler. He's a fascist. He's going to come for you. Not only does this totally deteriorate Look, we oftentimes talk about that could inspire people Right? People who might have some mental issues, acts of violence. So how is it any different It's not okay. Like calling him Hitler and like talking you know, in internment camps and shoot them. Yeah. So look, here's, you know, I drew the line between fascists Right. So I never said Nazi or Hitler and had gas chambers. And Hitler drove that to me. And as you know, we talked about on those words that people put meaning into. But I used it because I don't know I don't care if I lost the election, electors, I want to steal the election. And by the way, if they say hang Those things happen. Okay? I'm not in the in these guys Okay, so those, in my opinion, Now, having said that, killing people up against the wall. They did. Joe Scarborough did. So were you worried when you went some English muffins and orange juice, against the wall and execute you? No. You weren't. Were you? So was he Hitler or wasn't he? I still to this day, am worried that he's JD Vance or whatever is not going to leave I have empirical evidence to change my mind on it. But these guys, man, to have breakfast with Hitler. That is amazing. Okay, so now let's talk about So I was on Piers Morgan this morning that were all Democrats all fighting. Okay. So I'm fighting against Harry Sison Professor Allan Lichtman, Okay. He was on. Okay. And I'm sorry, but I literally Okay, so you guys will see But the one thing we all agreed on was got to hold the Democrats accountable. And then as if he's going And we're like, brother, you haven't And he always points out like, He's so happy that Trump is back in. So that's why he's happy that Morning His criticism of Trump and for Kamala Harris's nonstop criticism. See, look, it's not balanced and only criticize one side. So Morning Joe made that mistake Never, ever criticize them. I think, piers, look, I'm a little too has interesting conversations on. Right. I'm curious to see what he's going if he's just going to play for access. But can I jump in? Sorry. Sorry to interrupt you, Look for me. Yes, it is annoying when the critique but that is not my main issue here. My main issue is that the Democratic Mika Brzezinski and Morning Joe, thought Nothing. Nothing to vote for. And instead just lean Fear. Fear. Fear. Fear. Be scared. Be scared. Be scared. But that was it. And it makes me angry. Okay. It should not be justified. The Democratic Party lost They did not make a case to the fundamentally better than Donald Trump, That's what makes me angry. Well, you'll see in the piers, Juan Williams blames the voters. Allan Lichtman blames It's just pathetic. - Okay, you take. Democrats, for once in your lives, If you offer nothing to the electorate, That's the way it works. So the people I blamed I'm pretty sure they were in charge. And I blame Democratic Party leaders Wow. But that's like shocking like idea blaming the leaders who actually lost. No no no no, we have to protect them. Okay. Let's focus on me. Okay. Let's keep it. No, seriously, guys, so that's piers. That's, you know, Morning Joe And Anna read you For me, I wrote on social media over the to cut the government, I'm here for it. Right. So how the Pentagon never passes an audit I'll find it and give it back So you actually want to cut Elon Musk and Donald Trump. Okay. And by the way, guys, In the old days, would have been like, get. Out of here. You know, where you stinking Muslim, Thing, right? Overwhelming positive reaction Populists are different Okay. So they all came in and was like, We know Jake doesn't like Trump, but we and I bet he'd do it right. You want somebody to cut the Pentagon? And they just failed Yeah. So if you say to me, well, would you go even though you've said these and you said questionable things about him in order to do the thing for these several last several decades. Yeah. Okay. Is that complicated? You're going to let me do the thing and actually bring hundreds of billions The number one robbery Because they say, oh, you're gonna make everybody unsafe. - You know, national security. Well, you're going to make them unsafe. So that's why they loaded up with pork Right. Let me at them. Put me in. Coach. That is productive because that is anti-war, anti-corruption agreement And and I'm by the way, the other thing Did you really mean the cuts? Did you really mean anti-corruption? Right. But going over there and kissing his ass without getting anything in return? That's not negotiation. That's not policy. That's not on behalf of your That's just on behalf Thanks for watching The Young Turks Another way to show support You'll get to interact with us more. You've got emojis of me But you also get playback and specials right after they air. So all of that, all you got right underneath the video. Thank you.