-Hi. I'm Rick Steves, back This time, we're exploring where druids dance It's the West of England. Thanks for joining us. If you like England historic, and cultural wonders, you'll love the West. While everything within a couple hours of London, out here, it feels a world away After hiking through we'll play shuffleboard Earl of Wemyss: We'll tour a and attend evensong. After going way back we'll zoom into the new age. And we'll top it off straight from the farmer. Great Britain is made And we're exploring Starting in the Cotswolds, we visit Stow-on-the-Wold Then it's south to Wells, and the prehistoric of Stonehenge and Avebury. The Cotswold hills are dotted with enchanting villages And it's all laced together This is the quintessential And it's walking country. The Cotswolds are best and that's how we'll The region's made to order You'll encounter delightful vistas, You'll discover hidden cut across fancy front yards, and enjoy close encounters The English love their walks, and defend their age-old right And they organize to assure that landowners Any paths found blocked While landlords have they provide plenty You'll encounter all sorts This one's called it works better with two. Lower Slaughter is of a Cotswold village, with a babbling brook, charming gardens, and a working water mill. Just above the mill, a delightful cafe As with many fairy-tale the present-day was the result Wool was a huge industry And Cotswold sheep According &quot;In Europe, And in England, It's a story of boom and bust, Because of its wool, Wealthy wool merchants of the honey-colored, Thankful to God for the riches they built over-sized churches But with the rise of cotton the region's wool The fine Cotswold towns fell becoming sleeping beauties. Because of that, the region And that's the basis Its residents are catering and the Cotswolds have become a people who can afford In England, &quot;Main Street&quot; and in Cotswold market towns, High Street was built wide, designed to handle thousands The handsome market has a High Street that's changed Everything you see was made of the same finely the only stone allowed today. Roofs still use To make the weight smaller and lighter slabs A 17th-century market hall, with its original stonework marks the town center. Hikers admire the surviving You can imagine centuries that took place Continuing our walk, we come to the quaint Travel writers tend to I save it for here A strict building code looking what many locals Village churches welcome walkers to pop in and enjoy This church probably sits How do we know? And Michael, the archangel still guards the door. Inside, you get a sense has comforted this community Pre-Christian symbols perhaps left over And the list of rectors without a break, This church was built In fact, they say actually wore these grooves. I guess a shepherd even to church. Throughout this region, a few of the vast domains most powerful families The Cotswolds are dotted Downton Abbey-type mansions. Today, with the high cost some noble families to the public Stanway House, is one such venerable The Earl, whose family welcomes visitors Walking through his house offers into the lifestyles And the gracious and likeably to personally show us including a peak at some Earl of Wemyss: Hair, cut off Rick: That was a tradition? Early of Wemyss: It was, certainly And it's kept in this drawer, here. this says &quot;Papa's hair. My sister Rick: This piece of paper is from 1771? And then that's the hair inside. Earl of Wemyss:...just as fresh Rick: Whoa! cut off on the day Rick: So this is a huge table. It's 23 feet long. Earl of Wemyss: It's called Rick: Mm-hmm. Earl of Wemyss: It was This one was built, just the beginning And you use these 10 pieces and you try and... Earl of Wemyss:...shovel the lot That's a nice one. Rick: It may be a game But this Yankee commoner is Earl of Wemyss: Very good. Very good. Very nice, Rick: Another is what was called a sprung exercise chair Earl of Wemyss: And you did that. And your liver gets shaken. Rick: For 100 years, fine ladies Earl of Wemyss: Yep. Earl of Wemyss: And Rick: Fine gentlemen too, yep. A &quot;chamber horse.&quot; I guess that makes sense, Earl of Wemyss: It's just like Rick: Lord Wemyss has rebuilt and today -- as one of fountains in the world rockets it's the talk of the Cotswolds. For commoners, the Lord's makes for a jolly-good day out. While not quite in we're sleeping plenty in the village of Stow mixes medieval charm A selection of traditional pubs, cute shops, and inviting cafes For centuries, the square The historic Market Cross reminding all Christian to trade fairly And stocks like these were handy when a scoundrel deserved People came from as far away to buy the prized You can imagine, with 20,000 it was a thriving scene. The sheep would be down narrow &quot;fleece alleys&quot; They were built really narrow the sheep to go single file, so they could count them And ever since those pubs have been enjoy a meal, Tonight, we're checking that's a pub known While many things that pubs and community-living-room other things -- like the quality This isn't your Pubs are putting more Creative chefs are shaking up and you won't find mushy peas We're enjoying guinea fowl and artfully prepared fish A short drive south and to the wonderfully dominated by Wells has a charming The stately Bishop's Palace and sports It's a market city -- The peaceful Vicars' Close lined with 14th-century houses. Locals claim this is the oldest, complete medieval street Originally built to house the This overpass connects it England's first completely from about 1200. The west portal shows off what's said to be the greatest anywhere in Europe -- about 300 This entire ensemble was It must have been a heavenly host proclaiming &quot;welcome to worship.&quot; Stepping inside, and ingenious &quot;scissors&quot; arch. This hour-glass-shaped in about 1340 to bolster Nearly 700 years later it's not only still [ Bell chimes ] The chimes draw your attention to one of the oldest working The clock does its much-loved More medieval whimsy This man has a toothache. Another pulls a thorn And a farmer clobbers his hat falls off. [ Choir singing ] And under glorious you can enjoy [ choir sings ] The evensong is a Church traditionally performed and welcoming everyone. Taking a seat in the intimate we enjoy the opportunity the church filled Because we're here in July, the cathedral's choir and a visiting choir This one's from near Liverpool. [ Choir singing ] [ Singing continues ] The countryside around Wells And you can visit farms that known around here as &quot;scrumpy.&quot; While cider is becoming more the traditional scrumpy especially here in Somerset. And at Land's End Cider Farm, Roger Wilkins His enthusiasm alone Rick: Did your father make Roger: Me father did, but actually, The actual makin' of the cider as me grandfather done it. Alls we do is crush 'em up, the natural juice comes out, and the yeast is so I don't put nothin' It's the purest Rick: We head into which I'm guessing looks when Roger's grandfather It's time to sample along with its Rick: I've heard that you've got to be careful. It can knock you about Gallon a day Rick: I've heard some -- I've heard some pubs actually Roger: No. No. If you go in now, they'll Rick: And it's pure so it -- it's so pure that, Roger: No problem at all. Rick: Yeah? Rick: That may be true, I'm making sure Throughout England, And it hides a history that goes back to prehistoric times. Mysterious figures carved curious man-made mountains, ancient bridges, and legends that go back Glastonbury, has long had a holy aura. It was a religious sight That's about 1500 B.C. It's also considered of Christianity in England and the burial sight Centuries before Christ, called a &quot;tor,&quot; For thousands of years, pilgrims and seekers Today, it's capped dedicated to Saint Michael. Remember, because Saint Michael was the Christian it's a good bet a pre-Christian holy site. Seen by many as a mother the Glastonbury tor a variety of travelers And the tor has a Biblical For centuries, to Glastonbury on a quest You see, Joseph of Arimathea, who was an uncle of Christ, And even back in Biblical times, Britain was well known where tin could be mined. Considering that, Joseph with the chalice at the Last Supper -- Near the base of the hill built around a natural spring. According to legend, at the bottom In the past, people came here Today, seekers still But it's more for a wellness England's first church at the base of the hill Eventually, a great abbey was built on the site Mix the scant ruins with the mystique of King Arthur add the hard work and, by the 12th century, was the leading in all of Britain. It was huge, to serve the needs At its peak, was England's It was part of a network by the year 1500, They owned about a quarter They had more money To King Henry VIII, abbeys like In 1536, he solved that by dissolving England's He was particularly He not only destroyed but for emphasis, displayed his head and sent his quartered body on four different national Without its wealthy abbey, But Glastonbury rebounded. An 18th-century with thousands claiming actually healed them, Today, Glastonbury are a center for &quot;searchers,&quot; popular with those Part of the fun of a visit here where goddesses go where every other shop and where alternative For a more tangible look at the spiritual mystery prehistoric stone circles are scattered These circles, many as old were sacred centers They functioned 5,000 years ago, and when to party according and where the sun set. It still works that way today. At the Avebury Stone Circle, you're free to wander Visitors ponder the cohesive mounds, and megaliths -- the work of people from thousands of years ago. The huge circle, and so big it retains its allure and wonder. And nearby stands Silbury Hill, a yet-to-be-explained For more than 4,000 years, this largest from prehistoric Europe is just another edifice and ancient religious landscape. And exactly We'll never know for sure. It's like looking at the ruins and from that alone trying Stonehenge is the most famous A visit starts at the museum, where you'll see artifacts from the Stone Age people A 360-degree theater how the structure marking both the longest and the shortest days And outside, a thatched-hut how its Neolithic builders Huge stones like this replica carved and then moved some of them from 200 miles to the west. They barged them down rivers; they may have rolled them nobody knows for sure. After this introduction, a bus shuttles you to the site. Visitors are in awe the continuously debated and meaning of Stonehenge. The major stones were erected at the end of the Stone Age, just before the advent It's amazing to think that have been in place Whatever its original purpose, Stonehenge still functions Even in modern times, the sun rises in just the right spot. And it retains its powerful over those who gather. For over 4,000 years in a row, this ensemble of stones, has silently done its duty. [ Crow cawing ] Why here and These questions, along with many remain shrouded in mystery. But there's no mystery that this part of England is a fascinating region Thanks for joining us. Until next time, -Ah, you've got a big one. -There you go. -You read on there? -Considering that, right here with the... Ah! This is the quintessential And it's walking country.