According to a study published in 2011, between was mysteriously removed from Earth's atmosphere. tons - more than twice as much carbon as is Considering our current climate be of great interest to scientists seeking to But unfortunately this period of rapid 800 years ago wasn't initiated by modern scientists might take advantage And what was the secret to He killed people. *Lots* of people. When Genghis Khan's marauding Mongol Horde it was directly responsible for the 40 *million* people - that was over 10% All that wanton slaughter left vast swathes which in turn locked away reduce atmospheric CO2 and perhaps Altering the temperature of an entire planet by anyone's standards, but that's only one of In what is quite possibly the greatest rags shrugged off being abandoned by his tribe at its peak, covered almost 20% of earth's land But as you're about to find out, Genghis Khan intent on watching the world burn - he was not to mention quite possibly the greatest This is the story of Genghis Khan - I usually start biography-style videos the person in question - when and where they that for Genghis Khan. And the *reason* I'm not At first it might seem odd that we don't one of the most influential human that much of Genghis Khan's life is equally You see, when he rose to power at the Mongols had no writing system. And contemporary account of Genghis Khan's almost everything we know about those early Secret History of the Mongols - and get this: we So, with that in mind, here's what we He was born in either 1155, 1162, or 1167, really is it. Nobody knows for sure (or indeed if any of them are), but the the 800th anniversary of his birth in Whenever he was born, back then but Temujin, and according to legend he emerged a blood clot in his hand - a sure sign His father was a man named Yesugei, chieftain Yesugei had kidnapped her from the which sounds pretty brutal but from what I can As the son of a prominent chieftain, a life of relative privilege, and he spent his riding, hunting, and... actually it was But there comes a time in all our lives when and settle down. For Temujin, that time was betrothed to a girl named Borte The match was supposed to bring the two Yesugei was poisoned by members of another not being up to much in 12th century Losing his father was a huge personal blow to the it was a disaster for his career prospects too. Yesugei had 6 children at the time of his death, power vacuum within the tribe, and like all good Your average Mongol tribe was made up extended families. Yesugei was of the noble of the powerful Tayichiud clan within the the Tayichiuds seized control. To tie up any of Yesugei's family out of the tribe, leaving The Mongolian steppe is an incredibly place even Bear Grylls would book himself outside. For a fatherless family alone in the but somehow they survived, at first foraging for and later supplementing their But as Temujin and his siblings grew older, teenage-boy-squabbles about who could do the best moustache, but underneath it all was Yesugei's children had forgotten the small several - Temujin among them - harboured dreams Genghis Khan would one day be terrifying ruthlessness he showed his who would become the legend gave history Since he was the eldest son of Yesugei and his be the head of the family. But his half also had a reasonable claim to that title. After family's meagre food supply, Temujin decided brother he waited until Behter was alone, then There's nothing like a bit of good old awkward at family gatherings, but it seems because after the death of Behter, as the head of the family. And Even back then at the age of 14 people were he was fast growing into a skilled wasn't particularly unusual for a boy There was just... something about him. people listened. Although not everyone When Yesugei's old tribe learned they realised immediately that it could time before the young warrior returned Rather than wait for that to happen, management - went on the offensive, attacking It's funny to think that, had they done the the entire course of world history would the tribe's chieftain went down and kept Temujin around for a Being a massive Bond fan (probably), waiting for the inevitable opportunity to escape In a bit of a departure from the the tribesman took a break from taunting Temujin catch Blofeld doing that sort of thing. There so, to stop the young prisoner from running wooden board around his neck and left him But a plank of wood and a single guard was never one day become Genghis Khan. Temujin waited until formidable strength and attacked, smashing the wooden board before escaping into the night and When he turned 15 Temujin was officially and now that he was all grown up and started trying to take over the world. Despite not having laid eyes on him since she was to see her old flame alive and well, and the two During the festivities Borte's father presented the most highly prized fur We've all been given presents we didn't really exception, because he re-gifted haute couture to an old friend of Kahn of a powerful tribe called the Keraites. Toghrul was delighted with the gift, and It was a good job he did, because was attacked by a raiding party *that* Merkit tribe - the same one Yesugei those years before. Turns out they hadn't But it wasn't Temujin's mother they were a hard life as a single mum alone on wife-stealing material. No, the Merkit's and after successfully kidnapping her they was a classic 'you steal my wife, I'll steal Temujin had been off galavanting in the mountains learned what had happened he went straight to old warlord looked *really* good in black sable, to personally lead an army of 20,000 men to rescue of Temujin's who'd risen to lead the Jadaran I'm guessing it was around the time those 40,000 Merkit wifenappers realised they'd fucked up. coalition and Borte was saved, though there was don't really know for sure whether the child Borte was forced to marry, but Temujin did the Dubious descendants aside, the battle with the as a force on the Mongolian Steppe for the and he was rapidly raising a formidable army a year after Borte's rescue, This time it started with a falling out. and like many young lads growing up together there sprinkle a bit of power and ego into the mix, According to the most commonly told version of made a disparaging remark about Temujin's fists were shaken, mothers were insulted... mortal enemies - the 12th century Mongolian neither could live while the other survived. The inevitable showdown came in 1187 when their the Battle of Dalan Baljut. Considering the is one of the most famous generals who ever Jamukha with a quick Avada Kedavra and it was almost the complete opposite - despite Temujin was so soundly defeated he was essentially For the following *8 years* nobody really knows These days many historians believe he was where he was made to work as a slave for the simply biding his time in a remote corner of the Whatever he was up to during his gap...decade, thing on his mind: vengeance. Through means gain himself a shiny new army, and he soon joined Temujin 2.0 was a different beast entirely to He'd always been a ruthless man, but as he waged he took that trait to a whole new level. He in the field - he sought to utterly destroy them. Temujin would take their women as spoils of war, then order his men to slaughter This staggering brutality was useful in two ways. create mini versions of himself - wronged youths him - it also had a profound psychological impact anyone who stood against Temujin and lost families would be deleted from the annals of joined Temujin's cause without a fight. With each passing victory Horde was slowly transforming into one ever assembled. But that transformation Like many societies before and since, social class - the most important roles were standing. But Temujin did things differently: The most famous example is probably in most Mongol tribes he would have ranks. But in Temujin's revolutionary meritocracy strategist. Today he is widely regarded as one credited with conquering more territory than Another way Temujin shook things up was in how As per traditional Mongol customs, a big chunk of with the rest being shared out among the taking no more for himself than These reforms - and many others - worked horde was both deadly and fiercely Broadly speaking Temujin's reforms man had the same opportunities - and high-born prince. That was great... if Mongol nobility, on the other As far as they were concerned, Temujin wasn't just uniting the Mongol tribes - he was This shift in long-established social allies - including old sable-cloak Toghrul to stop the Juggernaut. Toghrul was between Temujin and the unification Temujin's greatest frenemy had been appointed Temujin's side. And it was only a matter of time After the Battle of Dalan Baljut, Jamukha and a lot of a bad winner. And when I rather than, I don't know.. patting himself he brutally murdered 70 of Temujin's soldiers by that hadn't gone down too Which is why, when Temujin showed up on most important generals immediately defected to the defections tipped the balance, and while the the outcome was clear: Temujin scored a decisive By 1206, the scattered tribes of under one ruler. To honour his historic one that still echoes through the Genghis Khan. Scholars are somewhat divided as to what supposed to signify. It's quite possible but the most common explanation is that it meant While we're talking about names, you may have called *Chinggis* Khan. The reason for the very different alphabets, and transliterating was the original anglicised version of actually closer to the Mongolian pronunciation, Anyway, by the time Genghis.. or Chinggis united war for close to *30 years.* And in those three the artist formerly known as Temujin had Genghis Khan's Mongol Horde is often portrayed way across Eurasia through sheer weight most of the time the Mongols were actually Genghis Khan didn't win because his army was organised, better led, and filled with The Mongols also had some unique advantages Countless armies both ancient and modern have simple logistics - feeding and supplying a large into enemy territory or throw changing weather But the Mongol army was different. These men were nomadic life on the unforgiving Mongolian Steppe. they were essentially self-sufficient. The horses fished, and foraged as needed. History has its weakest point, but the Mongols *had* no Add this remarkable flexibility force of unprecedentedly mobile and you had an incredibly lethal combination. And the rest of the world Speaking of the rest of the world, with his command, Genghis Khan turned First up on the Mongol menu was the Chinese of the Silk Road and, more importantly, To an outside observer Genghis Khan's invasion a huge tactical blunder. For one thing but there was also the small matter of the entire The idea of a giant army crossing the men on horses might sound insane, but while they were incredibly hardy. When times got their horses in order to stay alive. And when they would open a vein on their So, thanks to a spot of equine vampirism the desert. But what they found on The tribes of the Mongolian Steppe were with the seasons to ensure a constant for their livestock - especially the horses. tend to be overly big on building things. So spoiling for a fight, he was faced with OK so Genghis Khan probably knew what being a nomad, he didn't have all that much because in Western Xia they were When the Great Khan's mighty horde arrived Zhongxing in 1209, it was clear that the Mongols were forced to camp minds tried to figure out just what Destroying the walls wasn't an option because the that you can really blame them - you don't yurt). After double-checking that horses try - one of the Khan's commanders came up with they couldn't break through the walls, why To that end the Mongols started building a large alongside the city. The plan was simple: change through the middle of Zhongxing, drowning every Luckily for the people of Zhongxing, the greatest builders, and while they *did* succeed city as intended they managed to flood their own Still, in the end it was only a minor the Western Xia army was poorly led and bulk of the men far away on the southern border. murder machine, and after suffering a series effectively becoming the first vassal Genghis Khan wasted no time pushing deeper Jin dynasty. As we've already seen, it's under the Jin emperors after his defeat at the the time had come to take his revenge. is a dish best served by 75,000 men on If invading Western Xia had been a bold move, suicidal - by some counts, the Mongol army counterparts. Not only that, but Jin territory although luckily for the Mongols, in those days it and in the end they made it into Jin As had been the case in Western Xia, the hell to attack all those cities with dotted around everywhere - including the But this is where the brilliance of Genghis Khan's Because it was largely son-of-a-blacksmith-Subutai He realised that it was ultimately pointless cities without siege weapons - it would take he suggested they should do the exact Guided by Subutai, the Mongol army across Jin lands and annihilating absolutely They burned fields and razed villages. They took tens of thousands more prisoner to use they came to larger towns they would attack then immediately retreat, forcing the Jin to unimportant territory. For the Jin it was like The net result was utter chaos, and refugees dwindled. Suddenly being ensconced behind high At the same time, Genghis Khan was learning. out how to take large cities, and that none of his men had any idea how to do that, engineers directly from the enemy. teaching the Mongols how to build catapults This willingness to learn from the defining trait of Genghis Khan's Empire. gained written language from the Uighurs along with a whole host of armour and weapon Despite Subutai's war of chaos in the countryside warfare, Genghis Khan was unable to completely Mongolian Steppe. With China proving a he instead began to look to the west A few years earlier in 1213 the Qara Khitai by a chap called Kuchlug. As it happens, Kuchlug who'd been forced to flee west when Genghis no time making his mark on his new empire, and the nearby city of Almaliq. This turned out to One, Almaliq was under the governorship of the the city was ruled by Genghis Khan's one thing you really, *really* didn't want to murdering members of Genghis Khan's extended The Great Khan promptly dispatched 20,000 warriors per usual the Mongols were outnumbered, but - suffered several heavy defeats, and soon enough although for once it had nothing to do You see, Kuchlug was a Buddhist, and after gaining muslims. Genghis Khan, on the other hand, had only cause him a headache he didn't need. Instead, within his growing empire. Bearing in mind that many parts of the world even today, it's fair to Between the military victories and countless Qara Khitai empire in under a year, land across modern day China, Kazakhstan, By this point I assume the world's cartographers conditions - thanks to the Mongol's ceaseless on an almost weekly basis. And after empire by the Mongol Borg, one of those two of the world's great superpowers After a solid 30 years or so of almost had enough of fighting, because for once all-bows-blazing. The Khwarazmian Empire was a along an important section of the Silk Road. Genghis Khan decided to try and make In 1218 he sent a grand caravan of some 450 valuables to establish a trade route between the city of Otrar, the local governor was absolutely delighted, in fact, that he decided to simply take had brought them. (Spoiler alert, things aren't Genghis Khan was on the other side of Asia But when he heard what had happened dispatched a diplomatic envoy directly Now, I can only assume the Khwarazmian top brass years or so, because it seems they had absolutely Rather than do the sensible thing and get the Shah only bloody went and doubled down by Mongolian diplomats. (Spoiler alert, things As you can probably imagine, when our insult... he absolutely lost his shit. war in Jin territory he essentially Genghis Khan had shown himself to years uniting the tribes and the wars campaign against the Khwarazmian Empire was it was about revenge. The Mongol horde what remains to this day one of the bloodiest Genghis divided his army into 5 separate forces from nowhere and striking with lightning speed. several did - were utterly annihilated. In to a man, and by some estimates a total of 15 In just two years, the black hole devoured another meal - and grown correspondingly. Oh, and if you're wondering what happened to our empire, allow me to tell you. The man who kicked Mongolian Merchants was captured by the Khan's beheading in his case. No, as punishment for the governor was put to death through having molten silver poured into his eyes, As for the Shah, he went into full retreat, the devils of the seventh circle of suppose from his perspective they basically as the Caspian sea where he died shitting With another remarkable victory under his where a rebellion was in full swing in the lands and, somewhat unexpectedly, his prodigious Exactly what it was that killed Genghis Khan much war he'd waged in his 6-and-a-bit decades on him to have died in battle, but no. Up until he fell ill after being thrown from his horse speculated that he may actually have died from have been the Mongols that brought the Black Death of the world's earliest examples of biological Whatever it was that killed him, in 1227 Genghis founder could stop the Juggernaut that was the continue to build on his work for the following more than 9 million square miles - that's almost contain more than 100 million people, about The Mongol Empire remains to this day the largest history, and the second largest overall behind Genghis Khan died almost eight hundred haven't quite been enough for the world He's often been portrayed - especially in the intent on conquering the world by any means and it turns out there are really quite as a truly revolutionary leader whose brutal As is usually the case, the truth is probably a shade of grey that lies somewhere in There's no denying that he was one of the history. That he achieved everything tribe at the age of 8 is genuinely almost starved to death on the Mongolian Steppe somehow he not only survived - he went on to Not only that, as well as all the conquering promoted the spread of ideas across the world, warfare, and built a genuine meritocracy Of course, there's *also* no denying that Genghis and probably sometimes simply when he wanted his enemies so as to ensure they would was prepared to follow through on that belief Ultimately, it's difficult to judge years ago - by modern standards he was a again, so was everyone else you Whatever your views on the man, the myth, the Khan was one of the most influential human who dramatically changed our world in Thanks for watching.