It's good to watch you It reminds me a big canvas with &quot;silence&quot; written on it. There are people who work - You prefer silence. That is very understandable. It's like a garden here with all these canvases It's as if they were growing It's as if they grew on their own. Like a flower growing on its own. - And you are the gardener amongst it all. You saw that canvas I was working on? Well, I was working on it as if I were pruning a rose And there's everything in your garden, Yes, you have to pull out the weeds ... I pull out the weeds I destroy or repaint those They're like the things That's where you finished Yes, that's it. And I did And that canvas with the number 48 has been exhibited in London. I used the number 48 because The opposite house was number 48, - You mean it struck you. So it was about that time - Yes. Through Masson. Masson introduced me to the surrealists He was always very decent to me. If people came to him, But they still didn't give a damn for me. Perhaps they didn't understand You and the others nearly starved ... My words, yes. We were hard put to it Yes, you were practically All the same, I think you told me That to be starving like that was good Yes, it gives you ideas. Painting with all those rules I wanted to go beyond that. You see? Cubism opened a lot of doors, but after Cubism It was just concerned with plasticism It seemed very limited to me. In the surrealists I found I could get past strict plasticism And it was strange there were so many Like Breton and Eluard ... Yes, but not so much painting itself. For example, I remember well that they spoke - Really? For my part, I used not to like Cezanne but now I am overwhelmed looking But Breton and Eluard To them he was simply a man At that time I was rather But now I have an enormous I think he was a marvellous man. And why have you had That's just one of those things in life! Yes, I suppose it is. Now I'm more mature, it allows me I can't just be rigid, I must have a suppleness of spirit. You've got things here - And you found this one in America? Well, I was attracted, for example, Very crisp and angular. And with the colour applied flat it's just like And the eyes sticking out like that ... That's it, they're like accents. Just look at the beauty of this shell. It is wonderful. Its like a Gaudi. It's all that modern architecture that purity and force. Isn't it monumental? Yes, it could be any size. Imagine if in New York with people living in there! That would be grand. Much more fun Yes, those terrible matchboxes. And there are some things like toys. I meant that figure over there. They do these for the tourists now, These were originally They were used ... The arm must have been stuck on. That is very fine, - Yes, it goes back to ancient times. Yes, while the clay is still soft. It's the women that do it. It's all done with the fingers. Yes, it is very beautiful Very nice. So you consider these a series? Yes, they are a series. For example, these three paintings here ... and those two down there. Well, an idea came to me. I had woken up And so I thought, this is what I could do. Squeeze the colour straight and work on it as though I were And you work on two or three at a time? All five beginning with the black. You see that there were five, I always look for odd numbers, Here there were four, but I found another - You prefer odd numbers? Really? That is funny. So I began with the black, putting the colour on straight, and the next day, I worked over the black again. And the following day, I began to make those marks, which And then the colours. The colour But the start of this little painting In later stages, reflection played a part. For example, the shape of the black with my knife and the colours The red to balance the black, That was all considered, but the initial As I say, I just squeezed and began exactly as if I were playing - Wonderful. Just like a pianist. And you have used Just like that. And all your children over there They all have titles. Yes, very poetic, but very basic ones. &quot;Woman&quot;, &quot;Bird&quot;, &quot;Moon&quot; and so on. - Very tangible titles. You've seen Yes, and I see a hand on the canvas It wasn't planned. My hand had paint Yes, and even in cave paintings That's how they began - Thinking of the meaning What you've done here Very nice. We've changed it. We have joined This thing belongs to the character It's a cross between a sceptre and a club But I need to do which makes it look like But don't colour that object! A shoe on it's side for instance. Look. We could fix the shoe like this. - Anywhere round here? We'll do it later. - Like this? Yes, across the beam. ... more slanting. Let's see it the other way round? No ... - How do you want to put the fork? - We'll make a hole for that. And the comb up here. So we'll use these three objects. - I'll put that up here. A black one, a pink one, And the fork, very good. What often astonishes me in your work even stupid things, Of course. Nothing is stupid or banal. Not quite, it can all be transformed. It can become something marvellous, So with your collages and so on, you've taken ordinary materials And for the things I'm preparing I'm using waste paper. If my wife has been shopping stained with fat or whatever, I use those. And at the same time I use alongside paper Or there, for example, Yes, to hammer in the nails, So all of that is a single canvas It's astonishing because Sandpaper, planks of wood, nails. This, I think, will be shown because you can look at it Yes, true, in some ways Something really struck me yesterday. You spoke of Turner Yes, exactly. It seems to me that there are always - but there's also a background. That's what gives them depth. Like that figure there. - A good example. Yes, of course, Turner liked rockets Yes, that's it. And things on fire. And the sea at the height of a storm. This is a fibre-board painting I poured a can of petrol over it, and gave me those marks, which led me They drove me to it, instinctively. I was drawn by those marks, Like an electric current, I couldn't do otherwise, And that thick white there ... I put that in to set off the rest. That's why I like to have in my studio all sorts of things that make a mess. My wife can't bear it Because marks and stains For me it becomes a person or a bird, but it all stems It's the mark that leads me It's as if here were hills all over it. - And it takes the paint marvellously. But when you were starting this, Oh no, that came on its own. Only now the title has come, - I never start with titles. It's like when you have a child. You get together with the wife and choose a name, but not before! Yes, I see. You see, the elements stay the same. But the signs of these elements That's what gives your work such variety. That's it. It's still just &quot;Woman&quot;, but each time it's different. When you do this are they part of your morning dreams? Yes, exactly so. Because there is, in your work, the flowers and so on ... It's hard sometimes to see, Yes, it's because despite everything, And one's spirit It's not among the flowers Are you optimistic and do you think painting plays Of course, yes. It's not simply a form of expression it's a form of expression And freedom of the spirit is obviously So the future will benefit? Of course, our future And liberty of expression Free expression in painting as in life? Free expression in painting with free expression You can't separate the one from the other.