- I saw this video on Twitter and then again on YouTube Basically, this guy with propellers to take My only issue with it is but it's a scam, which But as for it being fake, the first clue is that seven-millimeter microbrush If you attach one to a beam like this and turn it on at full throttle, that it can lift is six The cell phone in the video with all the flying gear about 300 grams, and since to hover at 70% max thrust, you would need at least 15 of these motors to do what he did. But you know, this just In fact, we recreated in the video and turned and this is what happened. Here it is in slow-mo, and as you can see, there's hardly any difference the propellers on at all. So I'm gonna show you how this to break the laws of in this three-minute video. And then because obeying the we're gonna call up fellow to see if he can help a spot And then with my buddy Peter Sripol, I'm gonna show you what it would take to actually build a and then I'll put all the details on a new site I built using wix.com. But before I do any of that, let me first explain why this is a scam and not just a harmless fake video for meaningless internet points. With this many views and an which means most people probably it's a statistical certainty that some young, aspiring engineer actually tried to build this themselves. Worse than their parents' and breaking, this might have been his or her first experience But how, you might ask, would they know what components to use? Well, here in the description, Amazing maker was kind Amazon affiliate links. You can tell by the URLs. So he is making money off the crest dreams of aspiring engineers to know that this is total BS, and aspiring engineers are my people and you don't mess with my people. (gun cocks) Let's do this. (gun fires) The second gratuitous violation of physics comes in this scene. Force of gravity always points down, but helicopter spinning blades to the blades themselves. So if you want to hover, so the forces will cancel If you tilt forward and into its x and y components, you suddenly have an unbalanced in that direction. In essence, that's how by tipping forward. In other words, it's physically impossible to hover in an orientation like this. The forward thrust and it would have to The third major issue is the Arduino-compatible It's the same board here, and it's supposed to be Yet this specific model with any sort of gyroscope Here's why that matters. If you've ever tried balancing like this, you and your body were creating what's referred to as a closed So if it starts to tip over, my eyes relay that to my &quot;Hey, I'm no longer feeling It's also pushing my hand this way.&quot; And so my brain takes all that information and responds by telling at a specific speed in So to keep this thing balanced, of quickly gathering information, and then making real-time adjustments. And closed feedback loops are from the simple case of a thermostat that continuously checks the air and turns on at a certain temperature, their position 200 times a second to get a bullseye every time. (bell dings) To machines that are abused, and most certainly for to stay in the air. The fact that his board and an accelerometer means if it's starting to rotate It's the equivalent of wearing a blindfold and an oven mitt. You have no idea what adjustments to make to keep things balanced. (cat meows) Which is the perfect lead-in to the fourth major physics flaw. Notice how he attaches these motors and rigidly fixes them to the This means if you start to tip forward, you have no way to self-correct and it would just turn into a nose dive. If you only have two propellers they both need to be able to the phone in order in all six degrees of freedom. For example, if it starts to tip forward, you could rotate them both back like this to correct for that. Or if the wind is trying they could assume this To return to our balancing shovel analogy, by fixing the motors directly to the case, you lose your ability to So not only do you have but your arm is locked out from which makes it literally (shovel clangs) Ow. And my final physics issue with this video is one of acoustics. This guy proposes using to watch your favorite, conveniently dubbing over the audio here. (upbeat music) (singers singing in foreign language) For reference, this is what would sound like on a (actor talking) (propellers buzzing) And don't forget, you would actually need 13 more motors than this, so it would be at least six times louder. So now we've thoroughly established a multitude of physical let's find out exactly how he faked it. And to do that, I've arranged a video call with the undisputed heavyweight champion of debunking fake videos Captain Disillusion. - Make sure to get it as flush as possible against your skin to minimize folds that might make it hard to (Mark clears throat) Nice and tight. Mmm. - Captain! - Oh, hi, Mark. Mark Rober! You weren't - It's two o'clock. I'm actually even five minutes late. - Really? Well then. (objects whirring) How can I help you? - Did you not even watch the video I sent? - Ah, yes, of course. The mobile drone video. I've analyzed it thoroughly, Mark, and my conclusion is it's totally real. - Seriously? - Yes, everything except for the mobile drone part, that's fake. If you look very closely, you might just be able to make on the side of the phone, visible in every shot of it flying. The creator must have been in a real hurry because it's so messy. Here, it cuts off the edge of the phone. Here, the tip of his finger. And here, it reveals the thing it's supposed to be hiding, a rod. It's narrow and light colored, and probably attached with he used to tack on all the other gadgets. That's why he's able to grab and adjust the phone in this shot. By the river, the mask but the whole person holding it. Look closer. On this side, the real-time water, and on this side, a still of the shot. And if we track the phone's we can easily reverse engineer exactly how the stick puppeteer did, rotating mostly from the - Wow, that was very Thank you for taking the time- of this whole thing is the audio. The tiny propellers must have made so little noise at a distance, it didn't give a proper drone vibe. So the hoaxers recorded the and reused the same clip in every scene, complete with their muttering (drone whining) (drone whining) (drone whining) - Awesome. Well, thanks again for- is the number of posts, messages, and tweets presumably from people with functioning eyeballs asking me if this painfully obvious - Okay, Captain, well, take care. I've gotta go back to my- - Even you, Mark! How could you do this to me? How could you do- - He's such a joker. (laughs) So it's fake, and now you know but it's still a really interesting idea. And I was curious what it built one of these using and more practical engineering. So naturally, I called whose qualifications include building his own electric plane from scratch, and he immediately got to work. (bright music) Turns out if you take two electronic motor speed controllers, a flight controller that and an accelerometer integrated, a 3D-printed frame, and two a radio transmitter for a remote control, and a four-cell lipo battery, and then you put them all together, it actually works. (propeller whining) (machine clattering) Kind of. We had to do a bunch of test flights to calibrate that feedback control loop we talked about before. So if we notice the drone or overcompensating when it we tweak the response sensitivity in between flights until And I should mention, from the fake video could Well, if you properly size they should be able to lift 150 quarters. And so once we felt like we we took her out for (gentle music) (camera shutter snaps) (camera shutter snaps) (gentle music) In our defense, it was a but as you can see, it could The truth is, a bi-copter It just isn't a great design choice. The reason pretty much all is because they're much more stable due to a larger footprint And by getting clever you can move in all six degrees of freedom with no moving parts. So there you go, with solid engineering, you don't need hidden rods and Sir Isaac Newton can once again comfortably So the moral of the story is just don't cheat and lie and scam. I actually considered on Amazing maker, but some of his other videos, like this knee brace and even powers this In theory, I'll skip the this system would also which is why if you rewind in the pocket you see him click Thanks for watching. (bright music) (children yelling) (snowballs striking) (Mark yelps) More tape!