Every survivor has But this is a true story. This is a difficult interview. People have avoided We never even talked My father was a lawyer. He didn't tell me until after when he found out that Hitler had just come to power. My father could see that the which he loved deeply, and he certainly didn't to His very religious parents He was their favorite son that he didn't want to follow So my mother agreed and she did and My father made him to run a business during He could tell his regular going to a Jewish store But that wasn't enough My grandmother then gave I still remember the big Children have all that you wouldn't imagine It was just a normal And then my mother gave My father told me the Gestapo to let her know that if she would suffer the same fate. Her fate could be different from She did so much for me. She made learning religion fun, and also took me on She was an excellent She was a real lady. Back then she always wore around her neck. She was even wearing The children from the used to play in of an apartment Thinking back, I don't think or at least it wasn't mentioned. There was a really It wouldn't open and But the caretaker, who I She said, "Go home. Our children are not And I saw all my friends looking at me funny. I thought they wanted to play but then they went away. When I realized I started crying My grandmother didn't see it She had to explain it. That's the first time I I didn't know what it meant. I guess I thought and that there That was the first time I and were seen differently My father was and became what He could only Naturally it was just Jewish people no The Nazi era, when gave the Nazis free rein to Or for the Gestapo Anyone who was didn't know if they They always came in the early and rang the The first time we The next times, They always came in their I can still picture it exactly. Then they came and took Sometimes just sometimes to send The name 'Dachau' was because they knew Once they came during the I can't say if my father Our apartment had two exits. He went out the back as He didn't say anything. When I asked him he said he was in the They were really nice people. But the Gestapo came in and my grandmother It was a nice middle-class They searched them all They asked me I knew, but I didn't say a word. When I didn't answer, one slapped me twice across I cried, because it really hurt, but he must have realized he And then they left. Everyone was very worried I was just a child, and I'll One day we were walking A nice day with a This green car suddenly just Two men in leather coats from the people I felt a hand pulling me away A horrible situation. I looked at my father, who The men were writing Then a married and immediately And they told me and explain what had happened. I saw them take him away, and I really didn't think I because I knew I had heard too much. I had experienced too Our family was affected Other families No Jewish family was spared. They took my father to He later told me what happened. He met a lot of well-known And when it was my father's Siegfried Neuland. The man sitting in the and told him to He thought that was going He didn't know why he None of the others had to. And the man said, "Neuland. And my father really And the man said, "I'll tell you You once represented And when I didn't have you told me, 'Okay, And now I can Things like that Then came the ninth My father had been warned to Something was being He didn't hesitate, but wanted But she wouldn't leave She stayed at home. It I still remember her putting my He wanted to warn his so we crossed the valley in the Uhlfelder There were a lot of Jewish Some people were looting things, some were standing and watching. We didn't stop, we until we reached the area where Councilor Before we even reached his and Grandpa Rothschild He wasn't my real grandpa, because he had and I had lost my He came out, or was dragged He had a bandage here on his He saw us and He didn't want the men They shoved him into And that was the last My father said we had I watched him thinking then he said we where a good He didn't want to but because he loved nature, he knew his way We walked all the way from to the Kasselmanns, When we arrived, my father Mr. Kasselmann "You'll stay the night The next day we went back. The first deportation trains, the people were taken out of and all shot. All of them. But the ones who did they told their families Because apparently they didn't - the youngest was half a year old - who were on the train, The Gestapo didn't organize There was no Jewish They appointed a Jewish I'll never forget him. I'd forget your name, I can see him - I knew him - and he had to fill out the lists although he knew Those were my last I can still see her. And this horrible official, he told an adults' and a and he had to put My grandmother At some point she and told me she was going The word "spa" has sounded I sobbed, and so did she. You can't imagine. The end of my childhood. But my father had because it had come gotten so close to his family, that he was looking for a He didn't know how, but He later said that if he would have He called my uncle's former Someone from the little village and tell her that a Mr. Neuland She didn't know why but she did knew And he asked if she We took a trip. We didn't wear the yellow stars. My father told me and he would sit in the other and that I should look out of And if I saw the SS I was to get off immediately I asked him later what I was supposed to wait If the SS had come, what would have happened to me? He said he didn't know either. It seems so easy to say But the train wasn't We arrived in Nuremberg and to the little village. There were two sisters, and an 80-year-old father. The sons were And my father kept pacing I still see him, back And then they came back and said they had decided But if we couldn't find a legal I wouldn't be allowed to stay. I can't describe my feelings I thought I would never see It was a terrible feeling. But it was good that this was extremely pious. She was very, very religious. The village women saw me, of course, and said she had That's what they called She wasn't married, she And they said it to her face. But that came from God above, so she said yes. She told everyone, and in her face all of those years. That's how people are. I had to go to the and I can still see the swastika He had an office and he got up He must have seen He said, "So you've He didn't want to know He was responsible and the matter was settled. I was legal. Telling the village priest When I think back, He had to take He arranged everything I had to go to the church until an SS battalion They were retreating and we could already hear the shots The priest was afraid, because he didn't know how Nobody knew what was happening, or how long they would stay or When I went into the shelter, forced laborers from Women and men. The They were so scared. Then the SS left and the They went up the hill and threw gum to the children. Just like you see in the movies. It's hard to imagine. And then the war was over. In my heart, I had I had known about all the I was convinced that I But my father came He'd been in the hospital and Everything had been destroyed. There was nothing left. I was driving a wagon when he showed up. They don't move very fast, and I heard a car The left cow hated I got down off the wagon, stood in front of her and hugged It passed us and then stopped I thought, "For God's sake. Now I have to drive past She hated cars. She would And anyway as I got and it was my father. My goodness ... you can't imagine. I had friends there on the farm. They knew my secrets. At least I pretended they did. I That was the worst thing I I didn't want to I didn't want to be with the and insulted us, who had And I knew they And I was right. Even the And everyone was so friendly happy and thanking God You wouldn't have If you hadn't known what you did then. People as they really are. That was my first question: "Where's grandma?" and he Then I met my future husband. I was very young and But I only had eyes for him. When I was older, Eventually we got married. No one who stayed Every couple, every person who I loved my children and wanted You know, you're a young and it gets transferred it manifests itself in when you live in the That was very, very The Jewish people who resettled but in the land This was the land The Jews lived in a kind There was an unseen We were connected. The victims on one hand You had to lie to yourself. You pretended to be a person But you had to live with it. You tried to find people These people did exist, You tried to find people, who had not supported the They were your They were there! They were simply afraid. I can remember very well. Some of them were But we knew that every sitting My father knew it too. Nobody talked about it, neither amongst the victims Nobody spoke about it I needed a long until my children were much older. We lived amongst ourselves, My older children were never The younger ones did. That was progress. Many years later, perhaps 20 "I'm so and so and if you and about your past." I agreed and we met. When I arrived he had a in a camp over the years but He introduced himself and of the Milbertshofen where people had had to stay for "And why do you need me?" He told me he wanted me to At first he had been enthusiastic But he had felt guilty and He wanted to tell me personally And he gave me the that he had taken over And that was it. That really affected me, because I knew my It was part of her, of the It was the start. This camp in Milbertshofen, where the Jews were We now need political I think it's very important to give that they grow up Our kindergartens and have both Jewish and It is so important that the and that both sides see that the The baton of remembrance has The time of eyewitnesses to what they experienced, will soon be over. You are the ones with of maintaining these memories. Not only that you commemorate, that young people know what And you can only do by commemorating, by And the next generation of is very important in and remembrance together. That's all. Not to recount what happened, but just to guarantee that That is very, very important to