Hello, it's Mamiko from GOROGORO KITCHEN. We enjoyed our winter break, but now it is January and everyday life has returned. It is time to get motivated. During the winter break, Tsu-san was temporarily back in Japan by himself. He enjoyed Japan with hot springs and delicious Japanese food (I envy him so much). Meanwhile, I, who stayed in Paris, enjoyed Christmas and New Year's with my friends. Wonderful New Year food! Happy new year! We both ate too much, so we have a healthy breakfast of apples and yogurt. Winter in Paris is always gloomy, but it can be a good thing. Perhaps it is because of the cold weather, Tola wants to cuddle up more than usual. The fluffy warmth of the cat soothes me too. I'm home! Welcome back. Tsu-san, who had not been to the Marche for a long time, bought flowers to take home. Whenever I ask Tsu-san to buy flowers, he always buys roses, so I asked him for others. Today it was lisianthus. Good choice! I feel that decorating with flowers improves the circulation of the room. Speaking of circulation, Amazake is also an excellent way to improve circulation in the body. We received many comments on our last video asking how to make Amazake, it is very easy to make. First, cook the rice normally. Put 400g of it in a bowl (the rest, you can eat it normally) and add 1L of hot water. When the temperature drops to about 60, add 220g of rice malt and mix well When the temperature reaches 60 to 55, put it in an incubator (Instant pot). Keep the temperature at about 55-60 degrees and let it ferment for 12 hours. Can you give me something tasty drink, too? In response to the cats' request, let's open a can of cat soup. Our cats don't eat much wet food, so I give them this soup instead. After eating, they need to get some exercise! After all, traditional mouse toys are the best toys to play with. Kurumi also joins in the fray! She didn't react to the toys before, but after she sees Tola playing with them, she is more rampaging than her brother. I also introduced a new nail grinder. Sprinkle the silver vine that came with it. It also serves as a cat bed, killing two birds with one stone! I hear that brushing with a wet toothbrush is like a mother cat's tongue, so let's try it. ...... doesn't seem that he feels that way Kurumi may like it a bit. In the afternoon, drink a cup of rooibos tea, which is effective in warming the body. This has a nice almond flavour and has always been a favourite of mine. I noticed that the brand has changed to Kusmi Tea but I continue to use the tea can as it is. When I opened the cake box, the mille-feuille was slightly crumbled. Tsu-san chose lemon tart. It looks ...... quite simple . I can't help but choose mille-feuille. Let's eat! It looks delicious. It's tasty! We bought a new microwave oven because the old one was not working well. Since we already have an oven, we chose one with simple functions. It looks prettier than the previous one and makes me feel uplifted. And with the Super Thanks from you, the viewers, Tsu-san got a new microphone! The model he purchased is Rode Wireless PRO. Go ahead. Test, test... The sound, has it changed? (I can't really tell the difference ......) This is the new one. Now, let's start cooking dinner. Today's main dish is a Korean chicken ginseng soup-ish. Peel and cut 1 onion into thick rings. 5 garlic cloves, peeled and cut in half, then remove the buds. Wash 2 Jerusalem artichoke with a scrubbing brush and peel. Am I the only one who thinks that potatoes are hard to peel? Once peeled, cut lengthwise into thick slices. Prepare 4 chicken thighs with bones. Cut the meat around the joints and fold the joints. Cut 2 pieces of ginger with the skin on, and prepare 6 pieces of roasted chestnuts. Cut 2 rice cakes into quarters. The Instant Pot is again in action today. Add the green part of the leeks as desired. The green parts are easily wizened, so it is convenient to cut and freeze them. Add onion, ginger, garlic, chicken thigh, 1 piece of dried seaweed, 900 ml water and 200 ml sake in a pot and heat in stir-fry mode. Bring to a boil and remove any scum and fat. Put the rice cakes in the bottom, add 6 tablespoons of washed rice Jerusalem artichoke, 3 dried jujubes, roasted chestnuts, 1/2 teaspoon whole black pepper, 2 teaspoons salt, then cover, and set the timer for 25 minutes under pressure. While it is simmering, prepare the side dishes. Cut boiled spinach, add peanut butter, dashi soy sauce and maple syrup, and mix well with the spinach. Also make the leeks to serve with the soup. Simply mix the chili oil with the drained shredded leeks. Serve kimchi and honey lemon pickled daikon radish that has been left over. When the soup is done, let it sit for 15 minutes and release the steam. Serve on a plate and sprinkle with goji berries. Now, let's eat! -Here you go. It looks delicious. I forgot to prepare a plate to put the bones in, but oh well. So, you need to eat bones too. Let's eat! -Cheers! It looks good. It is spinach with peanut butter. This is Daikon radish marinated with lemon honey. These two are kimchi and spicy leeks to accompany the soup. Go ahead! Yes. Bon appetit ! Should I add some salt to the soup? I already put a little salt in it. But taste for yourself. OK, I do so. Bon appetit ! This spinach with peanut butter is very tasty. -Oh, really? I love this so much. I knew Tsu-san would like it. This is so delicious! You like these sweet flavoured foods, don't you? As you have the palate of a child. Even children who don't like vegetables can definitely eat this. Yes, because it's for the palate of a child. Then I would like to put spicy leeks on my soup. I don't think Korean people would put that on this soup, but I made it. Ah, really? You have eaten samgyetang when you lived in Japan, haven't you? Yes, I have. But I think the chicken soup I had then and this soup are very different. I don't remember it having so many different ingredients in it. I added them on my own, to make it more nutritious. Is it alright?! I'm afraid the Korean people will say that that's not samgyetang. But this Jerusalem artichoke is a substitute for ginseng. Eh? Jerusalem artichokes can replace ginseng? I heard that burdock is similar to ginseng. But burdock is not easily found in Paris either. So I added Jerusalem artichokes, which taste like burdock. And because they are all root vegetables if you divide them broadly. Jerusalem artichokes contain a lot of a nutrient called inulin. -Inulin? It's a very nutritious food. So I thought, well, okay, if it's a nutritious food. That's quite sloppy. Why did you decide to make chicken soup in the first place? Because it's cold. -Do you eat chicken ginseng soup when it's cold? What?! I heard it is usually eaten in summer. It's the complete opposite. But it warms you up. They say you have to keep your body warm properly even in summer. That's why they eat this soup all year round. It's really delicious, chicken ginseng soup. It's good for chicken lovers. The chicken ginseng soup I ate in Japan was very simple. I think the only ingredients were chicken and rice. Yes, so this is the same. Is there anything different in it? Well, there is some Jerusalem artichokes. There's a lot more in it than just Jerusalem artichokes. What? Which one? Like this prune-like thing. Oh, the jujube. I heard that jujube is basically in there. Because jujube is a nutritious food that is also used in medicinal herbs. I see. Is it tasty with kimchi? Yes, I like it with the soup. But I've never had chicken ginseng soup before. What? Are you serious? Then this is completely imaginary chicken ginseng soup. Should it be OK? You might be told by Koreans that this is not chicken ginseng soup. That's why I call it &quot;kind of&quot; chicken ginseng soup. When I went to Korea, I ate a hot pot full of potatoes. That has nothing to do with chicken ginseng soup. A pot full of potatoes? It was a spicy hot pot and very tasty. Korean food basically looks spicy, doesn't it? I'm not sure but all the dishes came with kimchi. Tsu-san, have you never been to South Korea? No. I've never been to Korea. I think I have been to Korea three times. Ah, I envy you. It's really popular now, isn't it? It's always been popular. The food is delicious, it's safe, the food is delicious. It's important so I said it again. I like it, good food is important. There's an amazing variety of seafood and stuff, right? Yes. Crabs, for example. Hmm, crabs. Hair crabs? Drunken crabs. Drunken crabs? Drunk? It sounds like Mamiko. It was like... Well, my memory may be blurred from my trip to China. Anyway, I remember eating a whole bunch of crabs. And they also eat oysters. Ah, oysters. Korea is also famous for its barbecue. Yes. Samgyeopsal, for example. It is healthy because the meat is wrapped in a variety of vegetables. I only have memories of how tasty it was. That's nice. Hearing that makes me want to go there. I haven't had a chance to go. Because guys don't travel to Korea together... is it a destination for couples? I went there by myself. There are shopping centres that are open 24 hours a day. 24-hour open shopping centres? It's open at any time of the day. What do they sell? They sell a lot of leather goods and clothes at low prices. When I went there alone, I went to meet my friends so they took me there. Leather jackets and stuff are really cheap. Would you want a leather jacket at 3am or so? But when you're on a high in the middle of the night, you might want to buy one. Because they were so cheap. Early in the morning, people tend to buy things because they are less able to make good decisions. I once bought something like a folding bed. Air-inflated bed. The bed was advertised as being unbreakable even when stepped on with an excavator. -Unbreakable? I thought it would be useful for overnight stays in the car. I'm the type of person who gets excited about such events. Speaking of which, this Daikon radish...... I've made this one with a flavour you'll like. This is delicious. But you don't like radishes, do you? No, but this is delicious. I feel like this menu today is very conscious of my tastes. Both are made with ingredients I don't like that much, yet both are very tasty. -Really. I think these two could probably be eaten even by a child who doesn't like vegetables. I wanted you to eat the radishes because they are good for your digestion. So I thought that if I seasoned them sweetly you must like them. Bingo! This Daikon radish is really good, but this peanut butter stir-fry... I didn't fry them. This peanut buttery spinach is really good. -That's good. I came to realise that they were both sweet flavoured, though. No problem. Oh, OK. This Daikon radish tastes like apples. -An apple?! No, it's not an apple. -Good for you. These two are more popular than chicken ginseng soup. Chicken ginseng soup is delicious, but... -It doesn't taste like the one you know, right? But it's very tasty. It looks good for your health too. It looks better for your health than the chicken soup I know. I like to put the spicy leek on top. -Ah, really? I like spicy leeks. I always make them and put them on my ramen. I know. Oh, you knew that too, and you prepared the leek for me? Oh Mamiko! It's love! I can feel the love from you, Mamiko. Good for you. I am the type of person who is sensitive to that kind of thing. I know. I hope you can think like that. Then I want to go to South Korea. Have a safe trip! You are not going with me? Can we travel anywhere this year? Where do you want to go this year? Croatia. Croatia? It was on the shortlist last time, but you didn't want to go there in the end. I don't want to go in the summer. Because there are so many tourists in summer. There will be huge crowds. I want to go there because the food is really good. That's what you always say. They also make wine, which is cheap and tasty. And about half the people who make wine don't have production qualifications. What do you mean? Not authorised? It's because they make it and consume it themselves. -What? So they drink a lot? I see. And it's surrounded by the sea, too, right? That's why the seafood is good, and there are mountains, so the food of mountains is good too. I see. You thought it was good, didn't you? You don't think so? Yes, I do. I do but... After all, it's the food that matters to you. That's why you like Italy. Because, what else is important? There is! For example, the sea. You mean seafood? Because you don't swim in the sea. No. Even if I invited you to go swimming, you would never go. I'm a land person. But you don't climb mountains either. I do climb mountains. -Ah, really? I want to climb mountains. Ah, really? Do you want to go mountain climbing with me next time? OK, if you say so. I basically like to lie back, relax and read comics. It doesn't really matter where you do that. No, I want to do it where it feels good. You're saying the same thing as my friend. He likes to relax at home the best. So when he goes to Guam or whatever, he stays in a comfortable hotel all the time. I said to him, &quot;That doesn't have to be in a hotel&quot;, and he said, &quot;I like to relax in those nice places&quot;. I feel like I can get on great with that guy. I also want to go to the remote islands of Okinawa. Miyako Island or Ishigaki Island. I've only been to the main island. I've probably been to Miyako Island. Ah, really? But I've been to so many places for work that I forgot if I've been there or not. You are condescending? Mamiko is condescending. Ah, really. I've been to Ishigaki Island many times. Which island was the best? I think I liked Miyako Island better than Ishigaki Island. Ishigaki Island is already a city, isn't it? Miyako Island has a really rural quality, and I think it was really good. -Ah, really? I'd like to travel around Japan too. Yes. Sounds fun. I want to go to Nagasaki. Ah, Nagasaki. I love Kyushu. When I went to Nagasaki, they told me to eat squid from Yobuko, but I was too busy to eat it. They said the squid is really clear. They are so transparent you can't see them. What? I can't see it! Like that. There was some? Really? Oh? Did I eat it? I didn't see it. It's a joke. But they say it's so transparent because it's so fresh. Humm... sounds so tasty! So I want to eat it. It was delicious. Thank you for the food! Thank you!