The Marine Sulphur Queen, previously began its service in World War 2 as the &quot;fast tanker&quot; and was converted in 1960 time described later on by a crew member's On Monday February 4th 1963, while underway toward the Straits of Florida... all radio Older, obscure and occasionally a bit will be *IN ADDITION* to the primary Brick those incidents that might be a bit more scarce on each will typically still have a finalized The Primary Source for *this* video, of Investigation's Report The Marine Sulphur Queen began one of hundreds in the T2 class of tankers, out rapidly and pressed into service starting in The New Haven was specifically a T2 type A few Fast Tanker shipyards included; Bethlehem, Steel Company The Kaiser Company of Portland, Maine Alabama Dry Dock of Mobile Company out of Chester, Pennsylvania... where the With a: of 523 and a half feet -A Draft Depth of roughly 39 feet The New Haven was powered by a Turbo-electric of Pittsburgh. The engine was supplied with about 7,200 shaft horse-power to a single screw -- But this episode is the first of at least 2 so far its life as one of those venerable, World War II, The Fast Tanker shirt is the edition merch items that are planned BrickImmortar.com just launched and your purchases Check out the on brand apparel, prints of my own maritime photos and much more. And yes, myself and the team each item category personally before If you'd like to stay up to date on items update and see examples of my photos, check In addition to the Patreon, the for you to help this channel be its own sponsor! Links to BrickImmortar.com, Patreon and Instagram The Esso New Haven's cargo (fuel oil) was 2-9 each consisted of one main center tank side tanks - one port and one starboard They were each roughly 36 feet long and separated comprised of side tanks only. These were divided Various sources listed the total gallonage as over dry cargo space of 15,200 cubic feet was The Esso New Haven belonged to the T2 tanker War 2. With that certified speed of 14.6 On top of the speed that this new class could power) 7-thousand barrels of crude oil an hour... The New Haven was responsible for of petroleum products over seventeen From the US Coast Guard; &quot;In 1960, the ship underwent a major conversion 'The Marine Sulphur Queen'. Molten sulphur refinement, and other forms of manufacturing, The ship had changed hands from Sulphur Transport Coporation This conversion involved removing all enormous tank measuring 306 feet long, Water-tight bulkheads... or sulphur-tight, separate sulphur-tight compartments in an or water intrusion to other compartments These bulkheads are vertical separations that provide extra structural stability to the vessel. And the difference between bulkheads is the way they are Transverse bulkheads run from one side of whereas longitudinal bulkheads extend along its length... or bow to stern. &quot;Longitidunal&quot; is the &quot;Long Way&quot; The purpose of the longitudinal bulkheads is to divide the amount of compartments The entire cargo compartment was then installing new sulphur tight transverse insulated with 6-inch-thick fiberglass on the This design allowed for a 3 feet 6-inch gap plating, 2 feet between the tank's sides and feet between the tank's top and weather deck. dividing the void into forward and and steam-heated coils were also installed to maintain the temperatures required to Which, according to NOAA.gov, Celsius)... lest the molten sulphur Compare this to the relatively easier to maintain From MarineInsight.com; &quot;The average fuel oil bunker tanks is around [104 Regarding Molten Sulphur, from NOAA.gov it quote; onboard a vessel like this would then require it Each cargo tank had trunk systems with pumps a steam-smothering fire extinguishing system Important to keep in mind for later... The Marine Sulphur Queen would begin operations as From the Marine Board; On January 28, the Sulphur Queen quote; "damaged the insulation on the main deck when seas swept over the bow... Company shipyard... in June 1961, all the with thin aluminum sheets and a breakwater was Also in June of 61, a major sulphur during cargo discharge. The molten sulphur reaching the insulation of the #1 tank and the sulphur and contaminated insulation In September of that same year, the while sailing to Carteret, New Jersey. as well as several bilge brackets, According to the report quote; "At [that] time an 18 inch fracture at web frame [number] 61. All fractures was received that this fractured shell On October 13, 1961, the Marine Sulphur incident took place in Tampa, Florida where According to the Marine Board: "The first time she was aground from 0523 to 0804, the second time she was Following the event, the issued a "Certificate of Seaworthiness" According to the Marine Board, the damage -3 of 4 blades of the propeller -Fairwater missing fractured in several locations [and the] These issues were repaired on January 29 of 1962, But in December of '61, another spill discharging cargo. Similar to the into the insulation of the tanks in the crews again removed the solidified sulphur and In addition, also toward the end of '61, a the starboard sump at the aft end of the long and 1.5 inches below the tank's bottom. the Marine Board concluded that it was leaked through this crack before its repair From the report, quote; "Another crack later developed in the and this was to be repaired ... on or about accumulated in the ship's bottom and was variously The crack was reportedly addressed The Report also stated; &quot;...on numerous occasions, while on loaded voyages forward 6-inch cargo tank vents. The molten would freeze [or solidify] and accumulate to a in some instances, the sulphur even though [it was] fitted with steam heated to chip the sulphur off the deck and to strike Then, shortly after leaving the described as a "pinhole weep", was repair attempts were made, but none any leaking sulphur had remained within a roughly Starting in late summer of '62, significant at the back of the #4 tank whenever the ship that the crew had to remove solidified from blocking the bilge suction system (which Eventually, an estimated 20 to remained in the void spaces behind the #4 tank. The Report states that this sulphur -Insulation that was not replaced -Or... a leak from a flange. (a connection The captain's repair list from items for the #1 cargo tank, quote; steel flexible vent line." [and] sulphur and renewing approximately 750 square feet of sulphur-contaminated insulation Also in October of 62 The ship Hurricane Ella... but was able Throughout that same year, the small fires in the sulphur-soaked These fires typically burned over a and were easily extinguished using However, the frequency of these fires increased Reportedly, during a late December voyage in the insulation at the back at least one fire had occurred According to the Marine Board quote; "...there were [also] three minor none of which resulted in any significant damage." At some point soon after, the crew removed the Canvas covers were installed to reduce system. And ventilation for the void Back in January of 1962, the Coast Guard had A year later, in January of 63, they the ship's seaworthiness again. Although, this the void spaces surrounding the tanks, or for a more thorough inspection and repairs The Coast Guard would also mention that the on the basis that the Sulphur Queen was merely A crucial factor to keep in mind. Beaumont, Texas. Saturday February 2nd, 1963. The Marine Sulphur Queen would Texas... laden with 15,260 tons of molten sulphur. On board, were 39 personnel total; -1st, 2nd, and 3rd Mates -The Chief Engineer with 4 assistant engineers -The Bosun -And 21 additional crew comprised of deckhands, The ship's destination was Norfolk, Virginia, with an anticipated arrival of Thursday Per protocol, the captain transmitted confirming they'd be adhering to a 48-hour and Sunday February 3rd, the vessel Texaco California, arrived at Beaumont, having crossed paths the California's logs showing they'd 22-63 knots or a &quot;6-11&quot; on the Beaufort Wind and quote; &quot;her decks were awash.&quot; (The Texaco The weather conditions reported by the US Navy of the Sulphur Queen, from February 3rd through that potentially would have been impacting toward quote; &quot;slightly abaft the port beam.&quot; With winds The Sulphur Queen's Coordinates estimated at the put them at roughly 350 miles 500 miles remaining to the Straits of Florida. However, on February 4th, after no prior precisely 1:25 AM Eastern Standard Time, all ceased after a single transmission received The final recorded message placed ...in the Gulf of Mexico roughly Florida... 260 miles west of Naples, Florida. This last known message, that keep in mind, followed zero communication from the along with providing coordinates, was also And the Coast Guard does not elaborate further Subsequent attempts to establish radio By Thursday February 7th, their scheduled day Queen significantly overdue, a large-scale search involved the Coast Guard, Navy, Marine Corps, performing 83 sorties, covering 348,400 Unfortunately, this initial search yielded no Search and Rescue efforts being On February 20th, a life preserver and foghorn, the Marine Sulphur Queen, were discovered 12 miles a renewed search effort in the eastern Gulf of The Navy also deployed submersibles to While this endeavor resulted in the recovery the ship itself... remained undiscovered. Among this material recovered was, quote; -5 life rings -1 shirt -1 oil can -1 cone buoy I felt it worth noting, that the and position of the recovered debris... were far outside the so called &quot;Bermuda summary of the collected evidence was publicly Based on the location at the final message along with the location of scattered &quot;...the vessel foundered some time to or in the vicinity of the Straits of Florida.&quot; There was also a consensus amongst authorities likely worn by members of the crew. There several of the jackets had suffered tears which It should be noted that none any trace of sulphur particles or By March 14th, after weeks of exhaustive underwater.... The Marine Sulphur Queen and According to the Coast Guard and physical remains of the ship led to Yet at the same time, it was well fraught with issues and it should be fairly hard on both their own marine inspectors &quot;...the Coast Guard marine inspectors, although conscientious inspection of the vessel, failed the cargo tanks, tank fittings and surrounding primarily attributable to unfamiliarity on the cargo tank arrangements of the vessel and It would appear that the Coast Guard inspectors SULPHUR QUEEN was a *conventional tanker* with certain relaxations permitted by 46 CFR, that inspection of the cargo tank, fittings and vessel and company personnel, a more careful have been made by the Coast Guard inspectors to And... &quot;As a result of the conversion she was fitted and was carrying a cargo which up to that time had vessel. It could, therefore, reasonably be unusual problems. Viewed against this background, failed to pursue good operating practice by Master of the vessel on many aspects of these as to matters affecting the vessel's safety. the Master of this vessel were the same as those The Marine Board of Investigation came to several &quot;An explosion may have &quot;A complete failure of the vessel's [longitudinally] break in two.&quot; &quot;The vessel may have capsized [in a heavy roll].&quot; &quot;A steam explosion may have occurred as the result Another potential cause in the Coast Guard report that was not commented on by "...the possibility of an explosion in the Hydrogen sulphide and carbon disulphide gasses sulphur vapor could have entered the to have formed an explosive mixture. insulation of No. 4 tank indicates The report would also mention; &quot;...the Master, Licensed officers, and key had all experienced previous service reasonably qualified to competently evidence to indicate that any crew member While the investigation was a disappearance that remains somewhat of a combined with other info uncovered during and Coast Guard with enough to go on, that -Develop instruments to measure -Require crew training for -Review studies on the properties of -Improve inspection procedures -Require studies on cargo properties -Address cargo tank construction and eliminate -Investigate the health hazard of -Implement recommendation 48 of the International which requires the carriage of an emergency -Require portable emergency radios near Within weeks of the Marine the crew's families filed a lawsuit Marine Sulphur Transport Corporation, the owner. The lawsuit alleged violations of the Jones and 2.5 million dollars in damages were demanded. The defendants attempted to enact a limitation victims can recover to that of the value However, The United States that there was no basis for this defense. The Court allowed the crew's families and the total amount would We may never fully understand the details Sulphur Queen and those 39 souls aboard... but no In Memoriam... Thanks so much for watching, liking, It's because of so many wonderful channel can continue without needing sponsors. in turn we can also continue our independent these valuable lessons And a special thanks goes out to And Don't Forget; Your Safety Matters.