Welcome, everybody, so great to have you. Today, we've got something for the top dogs, for those executive-level positions: 12 strategies But this is not just for the top brass. If you are that senior manager or director up that ladder, this is great for you. If you're more of a mid-level or junior resource, we're going to talk about today, I guarantee you will absolutely crush it, but if you are got to go 12 for 12. Let's roll. Got my note cards here. Number one, it's about the ... I hope I have I was shuffling these cards before ... it's Okay, so what do I mean by research? When you go into your interview at the executive interview with a recruiter or HR person or research is not this thick, you're going to I'm talking 10 K's and Q's, eight Q's, every If it's a private company, you need to get Data.com that will give you insight into the Competitive market analysis: Where do they Where are their holes? Where's their competition beating them up? What's their products, their services? How do they go to market? All of that good stuff you need to know before Nothing is worse, the biggest mistake you a question that you could have otherwise found This is a big, honking deal. This is a big, honking deal. Now, if you're at the junior level, you want understand what they do. You're probably a little bit more focused level you have to be able to see the complete opportunities are. And where their opportunities are, so you Now, I was trying to show off my artistic That's the world. You need to know how everything fits together. How everything fits together inside the organization What do I mean by that? When you come in, and I was talking about products, the services, the departments, everything bring it to market, or service, or whatever Well, you've got to know how all of that stuff If you're at the junior level, you have to You have to know how to sell this product software, or create this marketing campaign, But if you are an executive, you have got not only internally within the organization, the other? What are the causes and effects of doing something, How does that organization integrate with world? You have to be able to see the entire picture. That's very, very important, that your working or its service or its product or whatever what the entire blueprint looks like. You got to be the general contractor, not That's really important. Number three is everybody that you discuss the role. So, it's okay to talk a little bit about what do, everything that you speak about when you're speaking about the company's future, you want is within the context of the organization. So, when you're answering questions, when should in some way, shape, or form be focused that organization, or how what you did in its markets or customers, increased its market and bites of what you did. That's a huge deal. Now, at the lower levels, you're probably and how you did that effectively. As an executive, you have to speak about your organization. Okay, that's number three. Number four, it is about how much, not how It's about how much, not how many. What do I mean by that? When you think about ... and actually anybody in my resume writing workshop, or actually even the interviewing course is about this, It's about the impact that you made. It's less important about how exactly you level want to get hung up on how many people in charge of, and that is much less important it, even CEOs of large organizations only You know, they got the CIO and the CFO and chief of human resources, or whatever it might There's only so many immediate reports that Those reports have reports, and those reports So, I don't want you to get to, to hung up organization was. I'm not talking about the dollars you managed of things, but I'm talking about people, effectively. You want to talk about the impact that what world or its customers or its partners or Number five ... Where we at? Number five, it's about their future, not It's about their future, not your past. I just got done saying 90% of the interview, Well, actually, this is another ninety-percenter, ... So, before I was talking about company 90% of the context of what you're speaking If you are spending a substantial amount of is not going well. It's not going well. When you speak about your past and you start the interviewer is in evaluation mode of you. Of you. When you start talking about their future, are less evaluating you and more imagining an arm of their company. So, if you can talk about the future and how do to change it, what needs to be changed, and so on, I can envision what it would be impact that you will have in changing it. That, in and of itself, will give me an indication the things that you've experienced and what you. If I'm hanging out in your past then that to do this, so you want to constantly shift You want to make sure that you're talking have yet to occur. That's your yardstick. It's not yet occurred, and whether it's something it's in their strategy, or it's something do?&quot; That's okay, all that stuff's cool, and if in the right spot to score major points. Okay, let's also ... kind of in the same vein, Your story sequencing. Now, stories, this is my terminology, but question where you have to respond for some a story about your past or their future, that's So, just any kind of response that you're Your sequencing is very, very important. It never should ever start from the bottom You always need to start at the highest level, and then work your way down, and you as an You should never reach the bottom. You should get stopped about, I don't know, I'll give you an example, we'll hang out on It's always important, and I mentioned this to be talking about the benefits and the impacts Your stories should start either there or into macro level: here's what the goals were, what we were charted in doing, here's the If you get to that spot, a great interviewer will immediately shift you to the future, what we want to do here?&quot; If they let you keep going down to, &quot;Okay, I did this, and then I did this, and then them to the future. So, &quot;Hey, this is what I did, and here's what I'd love to know how I could apply that experience Move it. Move it. You control the interview and move it into If I'm chartered with building a sales organization, of sales nationally or globally. Our charter is we need to grow revenue. We've got multiple products. We've got three products, and we are not sure that's their issue, and are looking for somebody the products or whatever, and now they're doing that. So, when I say start at the macro level, what salespeople, and I would move them into a That starting in the middle of the story. &quot;Well, the first thing that I would need to and I want to look at the history and the Then what we would do is we would look at Then what we would do is we would start, and markets that aligned with those customers Then what I would do is ...&quot; and so on. That's what I mean by starting it at the highest to the homework part, the research part, the part, whatever it may be, and if they have We've already done that. Here's what we would do.&quot; Then just say, &quot;Okay. Well, if you've decided that, then here's so forth. So, your sequencing is really important. It has to start at the top and trickle-down. Strategy first. Evaluation, strategy, and then implementation. So, story sequencing is a big, big deal. If they start you with, &quot;Well, how'd build you can start with the tactics. So, if they go to your history and they say, You need to go back all the way to the beginning It's a big deal. It's subtle, but it gets the interviewer knowing and you're not immediately going to what you of mistakes made because people make assumptions develop this or that. Okay, and number seven: multiple questions, questions. You do need to have a lot of questions because I'm talking about you need to have a multiline to be investigating. What do I mean by that? Well, I have my criteria of all the things That's the first thing that I need to do to as a company, and then from the criteria I whether you can satisfy my needs and the things My needs fall into a couple different categories, you are a good company, and whether you are Those are two separate questions. They could be a great company and not a great company for you and maybe just not a great or the way they treat their employees, or answers to all of that. So, you line up your questions, but executives of questioning for every question that they if I give you an answer and you move on to is you're just kind of skimming the surface. You're not really a great investigator because topic was worthy of you asking me to investigate answer or a one sentence answer or something that down, then you're just kind of ... you're You didn't dive deep enough, and as an executive suite of information to make educated decisions, an executive you need to be prepared for every sure, &quot;Hey, we thought about it. Here's what we were speculating.&quot; Anything that could possibly come back at lined up. That's right, you need to have five variations what those are, or you at least need to know depending on how they would answer the question. So, when I would go into an interview, the that I was interviewing, I have all my questions, and then I have my next questions, and so What that is doing is it's sending a message and well-informed executives make educated Sure, there's things that can happen, but sending me. If you don't have multi-part questions, then You're just skimming it, and you're leaving You're leaving a lot of holes for yourself, questions. Now, the rest of these, eight through twelve, and those kind of things, but this one here stuff -- all your stories need to show how Not what you commanded, but what you did for Leaders build more leaders, they don't build So, how did you do that? Your stories have to be very clear on how your troops to make them love you, and going because you were on the front of the boat you, or the arrows, whatever analogy you want going to get into how you lead, you need to needs be very, very clear. That's very important. Number nine is you've got to have good communication This goes both ways. Not just what comes out of your mouth, but to interact, and communication is not just and nonverbal cues, it's recognizing the situation, that you can communicate or speak well. I know a lot of people that speak well. They sound great, and they're terrible communicators. So, are you reading the room? Are you demonstrating that you are a good Actually, speaking of interview intervention, An effective and a high CQ, communication information verbally and nonverbally, so that's Hey, don't forget to get your interview intervention All right, number 10, look the part. Please, look the part. Don't go in dressed in goofy stuff. I wore my nice, comfy, black, favorite T-shirt When you go into the interviews: suits, ties. Ladies, a good suit-skirt, I guess, or pants Be polished. Okay, I think I even shaved a little and showered Just make sure you look the part, okay? It doesn't matter what you look like physically, your control, should be dialed up pretty good. You need to look like you're an exec as well, just talking about the communication. Communication, itself, deserves an item, but Never should you ever utter a word that has I'm not saying you need to be inhuman. I'm just saying in an interview, when you need to be in a positive light. If you screwed something up royally and it you learn? What did you do as a result of that? Why was that beneficial for you to experience?&quot; Everything needs to be positive. I'm not just talking about don't use negative I mean, everything that has ever happened you might have felt at the time, there was what it taught you, how you applied it, and That's what I mean. So, positive talk in all its forms. I know I'm missing one here. Oop, here we go. Number 12 is confidence. Confidence. Got to have it. Got to have it. There should not be a hint of insecurity in I'm not talking about bravado over the top. I just mean I'm confident. You can be humble and confident at the same Just make sure that you are displaying that to happen, you're going to make them happen, that you can do the job and move the needle Okay, so there you have the 12. I'm not going to go through all those. You can hit the replay on the recording. If you are loving this, do me a favor, make