Long, long ago... Back when it was a time-line and not a time... crossword puzzle Three Goddesses descended from the Heavens and gave birth to the planet With their work finished, they vanished Leaving behind a magical artifact called the Triforce that can grant any wish to whoever possesses it Which sounds good on paper but it pretty much opens Pandora's Box for the local Demons and crackheads Who were all up and eager to enticing yellow triangles To escape the hysteria the Goddess Hylia sent all the non minorities of the world up into the sky To live on a bunch of floating islands Unable to use the Triforce herself Hylia had her soul reincarnated as Who traveled down to the surface along with her childhood friend/chosen hero/ love interest..? Link and together they defeated the With his final words Promising that his evil spirit those with the blood of the Goddess With the surface freed from evil the humans descended from the clouds They also built The Temple of Time Hyrule and the Sacred Realm and kept lock-and-key by the Master Sword which can only be unsheathed by Link Moving along on the timeline ...don't really matter Link fights against some MCR reject called Vaati that's about it More importantly we have to Ocarina of Time and here's where things start to get spicy Demise with his unrelenting levels of salt gets reincarnated as Ganondorf take over the world or something In an effort to thwart Ganon's plans in the Temple of Time for seven years Allowing Ganon a free backstage pass However due to having an uneven balance of the Triforce was split into three The Triforce of Power stayed with Ganon The Triforce of Wisdom was sent to Zelda whenever it's convenient for the plot Which is... never The Triforce of Courage was sent to Link whatever the developers feel like Talk to ghosts, turn into a dog... y'know Spoilers! and seal him in the Sacred Realm and because Link was a literal man-child Zelda sent him back to the past where he can And this is what created the infamous time-split First off we have the child timeline and is able to snitch on Ganon Secondly there's the adult timeline Ganon eventually broke free from his cage Forcing the Gods to flood the land And third we have the fallen hero timeline Where Link either straight up died fighting Ganon... or the player gave up halfway through and decided to go play Goldenye or something Ganon is able to obtain the full Triforce but is sealed in the Sacred Realm before he can really do anything Following the original Link back to the child timeline a game that still gives me nightmares thanks to that one creepypasta You know the one Link saves the world from a sad homeless kid and is last seen continuing his endless journey Honestly a pretty depressing ending Speaking of depression next is Twilight Princess After having his plans exposed by Young Link Unable to control Ganon Where he gifted some of his power Who then used said power to turn the Princess of the Twilight Realm ...Which depending on who you ask could either be a downgrade or an improvement With the help of Good Boi Link and Midna is able to reclaim Oh yeah, and Young Link is in this one too but like... super dead Hundreds of years later Ganon is resurrected along with the MCR reject and a shadow clone of Link in another failed attempt to destroy Hyrule The timeline finally ends with Ganon Ok let's move on to the adult timeline After his little sister gets kidnapped, an unrelated but significantly cuter Link sails the Great Seas to rescue her With a little help from pirate Zelda Link manages to save his sister reassemble the Triforce of Courage and defeat Ganon once and for all Well... in this branch of the timeline at least Phantom Hourglass follows their pirate and is chronologically only 10 minutes long Sometime later pirate Zelda manages to re-establish Hyrule in a far off island Which brings us to Spirit Tracks Taking place 100 years in the future and a completely dead Zelda save New-Hyrule from a resurrected evil demon that for once, Rounding this train-wreck up we have the, &quot;I can't believe Link is dead&quot; Where Ganon was able to obtain the full Triforce Like an evil teabag submerged in the holiness that is Ganon infected it with his dark powers He then attempted to take using the form of a But was defeated when a new Link Link's Awakening takes place directly after fever dream by a flying whale Sooo... Oracle of Ages and Oracle of Seasons having to defeat the same Ganon after his Grandmas er... Grand-Grandma-Grandmothers? brought him back to life A Link Between Worlds except it takes place looong after And the Dark World is called Lorule And the Wizard is a misunderstood artist And Link is a painting -ok Zelda's Hot Topic counterpart attempts to steal the Triforce but is ultimately unsuccessful Link and Zelda return the Triforce to Hyrule and use it to wish for peace and prosperity Tri Force Heroes and is pretty much the But... Link dresses up as a cheerleader so I guess it's worth its place For a long period of time afterwards That is, until one King decided and hid the Triforce of Courage far away only telling its location The Prince enlisted the help of the local for some gentle persuasion... which resulted in Zelda being put into an eternal sleep Whoops... With the location of the last Cheatforce now lost who after being resurrected a hundred times Before being captured the current Princess Zelda and spread them across Hyrule Setting the stage for a new Link to collect all the shards destroy Ganon and save the Princess But not that Princess... we're getting to that Zelda's caretaker Impa informs our and the situation with Zelda the 1st Sparking Link to go on an adventure to obtain it ...See what I did there Returning with the full Triforce and the two Zeldas fight for dominance over the Kingdom of Hyrule ...ok that doesn't actually happen but I'd be cool if it did Whew... We're finally at the end of the timeline But wait There's still one game we haven't discussed yet... Link's Crossbow Training! -I mean- Where does Breath of the Wild take place on Is it after the ruined timeline? or maybe in the child timeline or is it in the adult timeline? Yes. The answer is yes. All three of them. At the same time. The game takes place ten-thousand years in the future Where the people have made and developed into a super advanced society Electricity the telephone a cure for the common cold ...are all things that they should have created Instead they just made a bunch of giant robots Which backfires when Ganon rises from the dead and uses them to destroy Hyrule Thankfully yoga pants Zelda for a hundred years while Link takes the longest power-nap in history Eventually he wakes up, destroys Ganon, you know the drill But wait... where does Breath of the Wild 2 take place?!? - ok i'm done, i'm done. Subscribe for more, thanks for watching! Oh, and I made a Twitter so follow me there if you want