BYD - The world's largest EV manufacturer! How did they get there? And can they stay on top?! In 2011, the current world leader was still "Why do you laugh? Hahaha.... BYD is trying to compete? Why do you laugh? Have you seen their car?... Well this aged like milk. At the end of 2023, BYD stormed past Tesla the planet! So is BYD having the last laugh? Though, to be fair, Elon Musk has since said Like rapper Drake, BYD started at the bottom But how did this budget phone battery producer And how long can they remain number 1? &quot;We will see a big race between BYD and Tesla In the final quarter of 2023, BYD outsold 484,000 - for the first time. &quot;I think what it really shows is the kind industry at the moment. Most of BYD sales have been within China. It's their biggest market, about 90% of their on selling in big volumes and at quite competitive This was not a complete surprise, as it was in terms of production. But the first time around, the figures included So, at the IAA in Munich in 2023, BYD was 'In last year, with 1.86M new energy vehicle year. BYD become the world number 1 new energy vehicle Now it's beating Tesla with EVs ONLY! BYD or Build Your Dreams, once a small startup into an electric car giant. Founded by chemist Wang Chuanfu in China, for mobile phones just as the smartphone trend Business boomed supplying giants like Motorola Chuanfu had already been interested in battery In 2003, BYD ventured into cars by acquiring This was the start of BYD Auto. The F3 -- its first combustion-engined car, -- debuted in 2005. But it was much cheaper than a Corolla. By 2008, BYD entered the electric vehicle It was the world's first mass-produced plug-in A flop at the time. Still: A $232 million investment from Warren In 2020, BYD launched the Blade Battery, an which cost less than other types of Lithium BYD's Blade was more compact and seen as safer A clever move. The Han, BYD's sporty sedan, and subsequent BYD's EV sales surged from almost 131,000 &quot;The battery is the most expensive part of It's about 40% of the cost of an electric And if you have competencies in a battery, you have a big advantage in building electric China EV Domination markets -- especially Europe, where they're So it's no coincidence that BYD was named championships. That could be another nail in the coffin for Volkswagen's golden ticket. Now BYD is on everyone's lips. &quot;Come on, begin your wonderful trip with BYD What kind of car is this? Does it run on gasoline? No, this car is very environmentally friendly. Yes, it's fully electric. I can't hear any sound at all. BYD can no longer say they're the biggest Already a giant in Asia, they're expanding &quot;Keep exploring the world together! Move towards and strive for the halo!&quot; 'Since launching the passenger car brand countries within just 11 months' The rise of Chinese EVs and BYD owes much The EV industry has enjoyed huge tax breaks. That's led to BYD's domination domestically, to Tesla's 7.8%. &quot;The biggest difference, if you look at them, Tesla still kind of has a kind of fairly style that Tesla badge and brand now. Whereas BYD much more competes on price, but as other car firms.&quot; BYD has been able to undercut Tesla, pricing But there's another secret to their success. Unlike Tesla, BYD went for the lower hanging batteries in mass quantities. That battery development has been key to their their U.S. and European rivals. Unlike many of their competitors, BYD produces them avoid extra costs, delays and logistical &quot;That is one of the competitive advantages about 75% of added value in the car that they And this brings them to this position they BYD calls this vertical integration. 'Our vertical integration capability gives to the market trend, as well as better support BYD is actively securing lithium deposits, Their successful formula looks set to continue. The Battle For Number One expand, and this road may not be as smooth But growing demand in Southeast Asia &amp; Australia market share in Thailand. But Europe poses tougher problems. The aggressive expansion of the Chinese auto The EU Commission is investigating Chinese tariffs. This move is driven by concerns about unfair we mentioned earlier. But this is a double-edged sword that could &quot;We see that German manufacturers are not imposing taxes to Chinese manufacturers. Because they know if the Chinese get problems for the Chinese players coming to Europe, &quot;BYD says it will build a new electric car This coming the first Chinese company to make including BYD, to open plants in the EU. As a response, BYD is looking to build a factory The EU is also working on establishing its such as obtaining critical raw materials domestically. to crack. Tensions between China and the U.S have meant to entering this territory. the US is a big hurdle. And I think what could happen is that BYD, about building up plants in the US. Without building up plans and have a supplier Chinese companies, especially BYD, to be successful.&quot; Though they've supplied electric buses to car market there. And it looks like it will stay that way for tariff on automotive imports from China. Tesla's long-rumored, low-cost EV has yet But it could provide an answer to the cheap &quot;It's really important for Tesla to offer A segment of the small-sized cars beginning, And I'm pretty sure Tesla is working very There are rumors that next year this Model offered.&quot; A New King In Town? While BYD currently wears the crown taken &quot;These two that will be ahead of the pack Volkswagen as a car group is also strong but say that the BYD would lead the electric car &quot;So I think perhaps the most interesting thing BYD and more about what the big established history in making cars are going to do to So while these two EV giants duke it out, from the sidelines hoping for scraps. What is clear, if German brands want to compete and price. &quot;German manufacturer especially to be at least And if they are not more innovative than Tesla expensive!&quot; But could we see another Chinese brand come Like automotive giant Geely? &quot;Geely is for me a very interesting global quite broad product portfolio and we also electromobility sphere. So I would also bet on the Geely group as We're witnessing the emergence of an EV price respond and these new players look to dominate. This is a win for consumers, one that looks But the geopolitical climate means this road innovate soon, BYD will be hard to dethrone. What do you think? Leave us a comment and don't forget to subscribe