Please watch with subtitles (CC) turned on. Hello, I am Aya. A lot of rain is forecast today, so I prepare well first. When it rains in the hot summer, it actually feels cool! Originally I was going to bring a tarp, but I heard there was a strong wind so I brought a shelter. (sound of lightning) I hear an announcement about heavy rain warning from afar. I also fasten the sleeves tightly. Now I have to put up poles to set up the tent, but the weight of the rainwater is heavy. At this point, the tent should be erected... but only the poles are bent. When I raise one pole, the other pole falls over again... Raising a tent with my face. success!! But this time the heavy rain briefly turned me into ice. Hands in a daze. A jacket is useless in the pouring rain. Right now, I'm holding on to the strong wind, holding the tent in one hand and the camera in the other. The camera kept getting blown around by the wind, so I held it for a while. Wait a minute.... Today I will use the air sofa as a chair and camp bed. Is something strange? When I wondered why the sofa was soft, I found out that the lock had not been closed. Finish by adding air to the backrest. Because the end of the table was convex, the stand fell over, so I hung things on the other side. I'll take a break while listening to the sound of rain, and then prepare a meal. All the briquettes were destroyed. Due to incorrect packing, the briquette lost its original shape, but it catches fire well. Today I will grill meat on charcoal. The tent door was opened sufficiently and a circulator was installed. I need to put water in the oil pan... but I poured the water into the briquettes. The flame seems to have gone out a bit... is it okay? Green onion salad. pork belly. As expected, the firepower was weakened due to the water. Let's keep the flame alive with the wind. beer. Aya's food stall in the rain! I'm going to make Makguksu by cooking noodles in boiled water. Add ice, broth, and seasoning! cucumber. I've been interested in this brazier table for a long time. It was upgraded and released beautifully, so I finally bought it. But since it was my first time setting up, I was a bit confused. Now the meat is cooked well. At first, I couldn't control the heat, so the meat got overcooked and hard. Now I'm going to eat the leftover meat with the makguksu. It was a very good choice to have Makguksu instead of rice. One last piece of meat already! Let's build the tower with sincerity. Even the seasoned soup is delicious~ Satisfying all five senses! It was a delicious meal! I have to throw away the briquette ash... Even if I wait for a long time, the rain does not decrease. I can't wait any longer. I got drenched in the rain for a moment. Now that things have ended up like this, I have to go wash the dishes. I wish I had three hands... In the end, I finished cleaning the brazier and came back...^^ ??? Why is it drizzling?? hey! too much! Rain!! There is no sign of the rain stopping, I need to clean this up so I can use the table... I washed the dishes in the rain and threw away the charcoal ash. But the rain has decreased!! (It's unfair) ??? As soon as I said that, it started raining heavily again. The rain is so crazy! Clean it well, organize it, and transform it back into a table! I obviously used an umbrella, but I got wet again. Even my top was covered in seasoning. My bottoms are covered in charcoal ash. I suddenly feel tired.... Because if I go out now, I might get wet in the rain again. I'll drink coffee and wait for the rain to subside, then go take a shower. I feel really refreshed after washing up! Today I came to Jecheon. Now, after the rain, the wind is blowing and it feels rather cool. Originally, I tried to drink alcohol while eating meat. However, if I drink early, I can't film later. (drunk) I'm going to drink non-alcoholic for now, and drink what I prepared later. Drink! Sleep well! The drink I will try today is Highball! Originally, it was supposed to be done with whiskey, I didn't know which whiskey to buy. I'm going to search more, ask around, and try it next time. Instead, today is lemon gin! I bought this because I remember drinking it before. I brought it with a low alcohol content. Since it is already a mild liquor, there is nothing to add. lemon! I brought some lemons to brighten the mood. I'll squeeze the lemon, add the juice, slice it, and decorate it. To drink this, I brought a cup and some frozen ice cubes! Oh, the visuals are coming together nicely! Hmm~! It's like a drink. This does not taste like alcohol. But if I suddenly drink a lot, will I get drunk again? The alcohol content is 4.5 degrees!? For snacks, I simply brought white peach. Taking a picture to commemorate making my first highball. Haha. I thought that adding ice to alcohol would make it bland and tasteless. But that's not the case. It just feels like the alcohol is diluted and the taste is good. The sour taste of lemon! It's so delicious. Whiskey recommendations accepted! Please write in the comments. Next time, I'll make a highball with whiskey and tonic water. Bed completed! I didn't drink all the alcohol today, just enough to get a little tipsy. But I almost ate it all! Now, I'll spread out my sleeping bag here and sleep. I will sleep well today too. I think I can sleep a little more soundly thanks to a little alcohol. Good night! good morning! I woke up in the morning and was surprised to see the sun rise for the first time in a long time. Since this summer started, every time I went camping in the rain, it rained until I got home. It's not easy to take a wet tent and dry it again. I think I can dry the tent today and go! But since the sun is shining, the tent has become a sauna, so I'll drink iced coffee. I left one white peach yesterday... I didn't put it in the refrigerator, but it's probably okay, right? I also have some lemon leftover. Would it be delicious if I added it to coffee? Add acidity! The smell is slightly lemony. The taste is strange! Actually, rather than adding lemon juice to coffee, I wanted to squeeze a lemon. It has no taste. I can't see it from here, but I can hear the sound of water as if there's a valley on the other side. If you go to the top, there is also an air bounce. I'll remember it and play next time I come. everyone! This is the reality behind camping in the rain. Still, I think I can dry the tent, so I'll spread it out, dry it, and then withdraw. The tent's skirt is also wet, so I'll turn it over to dry and go home. The holiday season is now starting in earnest. Drive safely, be careful playing in the water, and check the weather carefully before moving. That's all for today's video, see you in the next video! bye! Thank you for watching the video!