- This is the biggest... hottest... and most explosive- - Oh my god. - Video on fireworks ever, covering everything from to how fire can burn underwater, how fireworks are made, To how they're launched. We'll even see what it's like (fireworks popping) Mr. Beast has got nothing on this. This video was sponsored by KiwiCo. More about them at the end of the show. (drone buzzing) - I cannot believe the precision with that huge camera on there. Gene is gonna try to fly the FPV drone actually like through the You ready Gene? - I think So. - Gene makes the channel called Potato Jet and he does tech reviews, but also lots of very filmic stuff. - [Gene] Lot of- - Lot of drone work. - Lately a lot of drone stuff. - Okay. - A lot of fast drone stuff. - Like this one. Are you willing to fly as it's exploding? - That's the goal. If I can catch it, that's the hope. But we set it up just for that. (drone buzzing) - The first recorded instance occurred in China over 2000 years ago where people would get a piece of bamboo with the ends closed and they So as it heated up, everything inside would get hot and expand and eventually burst, creating this bang, which they thought Then they developed black powder and they put black to make an even bigger bang. That was much more impressive. I wanna test out the earliest It involves three ingredients that you can find out in nature. The first is potassium nitrate, which actually comes Once they poop in the cave you get these white crystals coming out. The second ingredient is sulfur. These yellow crystals you can or around thermal vents. And the third ingredient is honey. That is the major fuel for the gunpowder. Now I'm gonna mix this all up. Looks like it could be frosting. So yummy. Earliest known recipe for gunpowder. What people observed was when it would spontaneously catch fire. I have no idea how big of This is only about a gram of it, so I don't think it's gonna be huge. As we heat up that very we should see it burst into flames. It's gotta be close. Here we go. Here we go. Yes, we have made gunpowder. Now that took a long time So why is that? Well, honey contains a lot of water and that's gonna slow down the rate at which this is gonna start to combust. People figured out that a There are three things fuel, oxygen and heat. In most fires, the oxygen but in gunpowder, the oxygen is supplied by The potassium nitrate It's KNO3, so there's a And then the charcoal provides Charcoal is basically just carbon, but it works better than other because it contains and that enables the They can actually get inside those pores. So if you mix potassium and add heat from a lighter, you should have all the So the question is, will this burn? It seems like little bits and just like sparking up from there. But the trouble with this reaction is that it has a high activation energy. So it needs a lot of heat to get going. Whoa. There it goes. That is cool. (cheerful music) I can see little balls of molten stuff in the crucible there. That is awesome. So we do have oxygen and fuel but it's just not a This is where the sulfur comes in. Sulfur starts reacting at lower temperatures, and The sulfur is gonna act like kindling. It's gonna create that initial bit of heat that the potassium nitrate and then, you know, everything can react. So that's what I wanna do, potassium nitrate and charcoal, which is like your quintessential And the amounts that you need of this have been pretty stable which is about 75% potassium and 15% charcoal. Those are the right mixtures so that you have just the right to fully react and release So I wanna test how long it about a meter of this homemade gunpowder. Let's let her rip. There it goes. Hey, it's going so slow. (suspenseful music) Come on, you can do it. Go, go, go, go, go. Wow, it made it to the end. You know what I think the problem is the granules of charcoal that I've got and these grains of potassium they're all a bit big. So to actually get that it's not really working. So what I wanna do is compare that to store bought gun powder from, you know, a factory that's actually to be really tiny. So all the reagents are Oh my... - Whoo! - That is impressive. (suspenseful music) (laughs) Yes. That is gunpowder. That makes mine look so amateur. The chemical reaction that occurs in the combustion of to say the least. But a number of the and that's why burning gunpowder The neighbors have gotta be - That is so... The thing about gun when it's just exposed to the air, it doesn't really explode. And I think of gunpowder as explosive. But in order to see that, what Because when you confine gun powder, you increase the concentration They don't just blow away from each other when they catch fire. So they're forced into closer Plus you trap more of the heat, so the reagents get moving and so they can react more readily. So I put 10 grams of and taped it shut. (explosion pops) Okay, that's better. But it wasn't as big of a Well, it was a bit more Maybe we need a tighter vessel, I think. So I'm gonna use some to strengthen the container, and then we should get a bigger bang. (explosion booms) - It went right past me. (explosion booms) - It's more of a bang. Here I have 20 grams of black powder. So I guess the question is do we get twice the bang? Here we go, everyone get back. (explosion booming) This is essentially what a firework is. I mean, fireworks consist of a shell with a lot of gunpowder inside. - So, this is an inert shell. It's colorized so that you can see the A real shell, everything because it would be primed - Actually a note about terminology. For a long time the terms were used in interchangeably. But these days the formula to make it smokeless. So what's used in fireworks is called, at least in the US, black powder, to distinguish it from Just know that in this to mean basically the same thing. - The shell itself is made out a cardboard and what looks like and with craft paper and a glue. And you go around and around once you put the two - Is that like the standard - So on a 4th of July display, you'll see anything up to five inch typically. In most cases, six inch and above are reserved for locations you're out in some desert shoot site or on a barge somewhere. But they can go even bigger and even larger in very special occasions. This is the hemisphere for a - That is a huge firework. The biggest aerial firework and it weighed about the same as a car. (speaker gasping) - Ah-ooh-ooh-ooh! - Whoa. (all laughing) - To launch a firework into the air, the way it's done is - In a typical shell, you're gonna have a baggie of black powder that's underneath the shell, and that acts to fire the to the 800 feet in the air, which is what this eight Shells as large as say a 16 inch, those can use literally underneath them. - To ensure the shell goes straight up. It's placed in a big plastic - A pyro technician gets two bangs for every one the audience does. You get a bang when the mortar fires and then a bang when the shell explodes. (explosions booming) And it's literally like a cannon, shooting a cannon ball in the air. So the audience doesn't get but the pyro crew does. (explosions booming) (audience cheering) - Does everything burn up - The internal contents, yes. So all the stars, the the casing will come down in pieces. That's why we have a fallout Or the exclusion zone, where only the crew is because you do get debris that comes down. It literally sounds like rain at the end from all of the debris from that finale, shells going off all at once. - How often do they malfunction? - It's rare, but it does happen. You'll have a wooden rack with a few HDPE, high density polyethylene mortars in it. And that particular and split from the energy versus explode and throw - We actually experienced with the biggest shell Okay, in three, two, one. (explosion pops) Oh, oh. That one did not look like it... (explosion booms) Oh! That's what happens when - But because we follow all at a professional display, it's usually the crowd going, whoa. And the crew going, whoa. (explosion booms) - Oh my God. (both laughing) - And then the show goes on is typically what happens when something like that goes on. - Thankfully everyone was safe because we could trigger from outside the blast radius. But igniting explosives safely - In the mining industry, their delay method back then was to literally sprinkle through the mine to give - The simplest fuse just that's been soaked in black powder and then allowed to dry out. This is known as black match. It burns well, but pretty slowly. - That alone would burn two But once you encase it in craft paper, that's literally all this is, you change that burn rate to anywhere from 30 to - This has the same effect as containing the black powder. It traps in the heat and reagents, so the reaction goes much faster. - This is actually how we We're not actually pushing - This type of fuse is Now, before I'd ever seen it was suggested that I down the fuse. What I'm gonna do is light this little piece and then I'm gonna try to race But still, I was not (suspenseful music) (explosions popping) what the heck was that? (suspenseful music) You are kidding me. You didn't tell me it was gonna do that. The force of the combustion products causes the quick match It's crazy how much just and containing the heat from It certainly burns much without the paper. (explosion pops) Man. Every time, every time that gets me. One problem with these basic fuses is they aren't waterproof. Even though they contain so they don't need the they do need heat and at conducting the heat away from the fuse. So it snuffs out the reaction. And it fizzles out. The same problem occurs with road flares. I thought since the flame comes it might be able to stay lit under water. Three, two, one. (water splashes) And it did for a little while, but eventually the water got So I think that the by pulling the heat away from it so it doesn't have enough (water burbling) You bring it out. Come on, come on. Ah. - Wait, look. - He-ey! (both laugh) - Ooh! - And it's... (water burbling) There are special flares made but even those have similar problems. (water burbling) You can see the gaseous being released here and And while this flare lasted longer, the water still eventually put it out. Come on. Why did that go out? But it is possible to - So this is your traditional visco fuse. You're gonna see this in a lot (calm music) - Very big firework store. (cheerful music) I feel like we have to get this, spins? - Yeah. - And it makes fire? - Yeah. - I'm excited about this one. Here we go in three, two, one. - [Mike] It's really got a powder core with a fiber wrap to it. (fireworks popping) (laughing) And it's typically lacquer coated. So these fuses are typically waterproof. (explosion popping) - Whoa! (water burbling) Wow! (laughs) That was impressive. Fuses are not only used they are a core component - So that quick match flashes really quick down into the black And while it's pushing the it lights the time fuse. So this is what would to give you the time delay. From the time the lift charge fires to the time the shell hits You know, it's about a and is really a black compared to the more flimsy visco type. - It's really important keeps the combustion contained inside it so the firework only at the very peak of its trajectory. So we tested it underwater. Do you think it's waterproof? - Should be. - All right. It's taking its time. There we go. That looks like a firework type fuse. - [Mike] These function by not spitting any fire out the side so that the shell doesn't - That's smart. - [Mike] So you should only once it's made it's all the way through. - What's containing it? Like what kind of material - [Mike] Well, there's a number... There's weaves of fibers in that really provides that waterproofing. - So you can kind of see how the signal is progressing. You can see how the fire's 'Cause obviously it's getting hot. Some of the gaseous Oh, is it gonna come out? Was that it? - [Mike] That was it. - That is all that is needed to ignite the core of a firework. (both laugh) - So after that time fuse hits its end, it'll light a piece of black match that'll then flash into the burst charge. So that's what's represented which is typically rice hulls coated with black powder. - What are ri... Oh rice hulls. - Yes. Rice hulls, not holes, sorry. - I was like they're making - The reason we coat rice hulls is because you get a very granular powder in the center of the shell now, which allows the flame through the shell, igniting creating that significant to blow the shell open. So a traditional peony shell would be your most basic of fireworks, where these stars would literally and then you'd have and that would give you a very symmetrical your traditional firework that you see. - But it's just interesting to think that when you see a firework go off, you know, all those little points of light are about that size. - [Mike] Yeah. - But they look... I mean I would say that 'Cause they're so bright, I guess. - Yeah. (drone whistling) - So fast. - How fast does this thing go? - Pretty quick and it when it's dark like this. - Okay, can you see anything? - [Gene] Once I go start looking here, I'm like, I'm not sure. - How do you get focused to and you're not quite sure where 'cause it's all pitch black? - 'Cause I basically have And we can at least see - Taking off. (drone whistling) - Yes. Amazing. Blue. (calm music) - Oh shoot, okay. - Oh, dang. - [Gene] Oh dang. I didn't realize I was All right, hold on. - I just wanna see what I wanna check this out. So. Whoa, that is cool. I dig that. These stars are made of black powder mixed with chemicals to give - [Mike] So brocade crown star would be the big bushy gold tail that you would see in the sky. So imagine a big glittering gold shell. (indistinct chatters) - I could actually see the and glowing pretty bright right now. - [Mike] Now, imagine those leaving a tail as they fly through the sky. It's a really spectacular effect. - This is gonna be blue. Ah. Often the chemicals mixed into the stars are used to create specific colors. - [Mike] Each of these stars would be coated with a primer composition, which is a really fine black powder. The reason for that is a take more heat to ignite, so they have a higher So by coating with black you're ensuring ignition of all the stars, which then transfer the fire (calm music) - And then it started taking off on you. (imitates firework) That's cool. I like that. (calm music) Jeez it's bright. The colors of fireworks are actually thanks to quantum mechanics. An element absorbs energy raising an electron to And there are only certain So when the electron drops back down to a lower energy level, with a specific energy of that transition, which corresponds to a particular color. Some elements are particularly well-suited to create certain colors. So as the copper ions go in there, they absorb energy from the and then the electrons drop back down to a lower energy level and they give out that And that's why we get What a thing of beauty. This is just a little interjection because I was looking at our flame tests and the copper salt tests, you know, anywhere you look, copper like bright blue, but those And so I didn't really but I was sitting here with the KiwiCo flame test kit. I know like they did sponsor this video, but didn't tell me to put But what I found is that, okay, I'm using a copper salt and then if you leave it for it starts to get blue. Oh, look at that blue. To get the beautiful blue color. I think it's a higher that we didn't achieve in our Here we got some calcium Oh, that is a beautiful orange. Look at that. Here we're getting some potassium chloride to give us some violet. I'm not seeing too much violet, but maybe just a little. Barium chloride. Of course, that's just small scale. Our pyro technician mixed in a mortar. - [Mike] What's in there is with boric acid on this one. (explosion booms) (both laughing) And copper(II) chloride on this one. - Three, two, one. Fire. Yeah! That was awesome. (calm music) That is the beauty of quantum mechanics. The electron transitions that give rise to the at least in my opinion, way cooler than colored smoke bombs. So the combustion products here are solid, and that's why they make so much smoke. In this case, there's just dye in the Yes. To make so-called ghost shells, the stars are coated in which allows them to - So assuming your shell your casing, all your you're gonna get a very So it's really as simple as how you lay out the stars in the shell and it'll break in that - So what's your favorite patterned? - Jellyfish are pretty neat. If you've ever seen a jellyfish, it really looks like a jellyfish. You get the dome and then you get tentacles - That sounds amazing. - [Mike] Yeah. - Do they just do it by changing the color and position of the stars up here? Like how do you get a - If this was the shell and you'd have another half this way, only the top half would be covered- - Would be fully covered. - And that would be your dome. And then you'd have a couple larger stars to create the large tentacles - Ah. These days fireworks by lighting a fuse by hand, - Each one of these buttons would correspond to an going out into the field. - The button sends current down the wire to an electric match. A little filament in the match heats up, triggering a chemical reaction. - [Mike] Which then spits fire into whatever you're trying to light. - [Gene] Yeah, I think it's just... - Dust in the motors? - I think so. This might be a pretty quick repair. - We are about to have a fireworks finale in the middle of nowhere in the pitch dark for like a minute. And we're gonna try to So what does it actually where all the fireworks two, one. (drone whistling) - Thank you. (fireworks popping) (upbeat music) Wow. Can we get some light on the ground here? (laughing) - That was insane. - The fireworks finale - They were like two &quot;I'm not sure if I'm upside down or not, but I gotta hold this shot.&quot; Okay, so - [All] Whoa. (hopeful music) - Oh man. Right through Just parked right down into that. (all laughing) Whoa, that is so wicked. - Dude. - Yeah, there we go. (all laughing) - You're upside down. - [Gene] Right there. (hopeful music) I was just chasing everything. (hopeful music) - Fireworks are this perfect light, and sound. If their purpose is to banish bad spirits, I'd say they achieve it. (fireworks booming) (squicky sound) Hey, this video was sponsored by KiwiCo. You know, every time a KiwiCo my kids get really excited. (screaming) What is it guys? - I love me this one. - You light it on fire and it (gasps) - The different chemicals you put on? - Uh-huh. And that's because they know what's inside is a hands-on project that And the building is a lot of fun and playing with it From my perspective, the best part is that my kids technology, engineering and design while playing and having fun. And I think that is the best way to learn. So the way it works is that each month KiwiCo delivers a crate right to your door and inside is everything you And I mean everything. So there are no additional We've been getting crates So we've built lots of different projects and they're all high quality. I got to tour KiwiCO's headquarters, so I saw how their crates and then tested with kids They're also really good value. Most KiwiCo subscriptions work They have nine different product lines targeted at different age groups. Everything from newborns up to 14 plus so your kids can grow with I think my favorite thing is has become something that we do together. Every month there is this thought starter and an invitation to spend and it just arrives on our doorstep and I really appreciate that. So if you wanna try it out, go to kiwico.com/veritasium Using my link, you're not you're also helping to And if you want to purchase single crates, that's also an option They make great gifts. So I wanna thank KiwiCo and I wanna thank you for watching.