(dramatic music) - [Derek] A single sentence in one of the oldest math books held the key to Euclid's &quot;Elements&quot; has been than any other book except the Bible. It was the go to math But for all that time, mathematicians were which seemed like a mistake. Ultimately, some of the that Euclid wasn't wrong after all, but there was more to the story. Slight tweaks to this line out of nothing. Surprisingly, 80 years later, we found out those strange new universes are core to understanding (contemplative music) Around 300 BC, the Greek mathematician, Euclid, to summarize all mathematics to essentially create the one book that contains everything that everyone knows about mathematics. But that's no easy task. See, before Euclid, there was - People would prove things, but they would just be &quot;Why does a triangle have 180 degrees?&quot; &quot;'Cause if you take two parallel lines -&quot; &quot;Yeah, but why do parallel lines exist?&quot; &quot;Oh, that's because you can make a square. &quot;Why does a square exist?&quot; You have this infinite recursion of what the fundamental reason - [Derek] It's kind of every word is defined so how do you get to ground truth? Euclid used a solution that Let's just accept a few of as being true, these are our postulates. Then, based upon these postulates, we can prove theorems one at a time, building up our math using logic, so that as long as those then everything else must definitely be true. He had perfected the gold standard for rigorous mathematical proof that all modern math relies on. Euclid used this method when he published his 13 book in which he proved 465 theorems, covering almost all of including geometry and number theory. And all these theorems depended a few common notions, and five postulates. - We go right to book one, and book one starts with definitions, you gotta start somewhere. And the definition is, &quot;A point is that which has no part. A line is a breadthless length.&quot; And, &quot;The ends of lines are points.&quot; By line, he really means a curve, and then it has some ends. &quot;A straight line is a within the points on itself.&quot; And then so on, and so forth. He's got 23 definitions, then he's got the five postulates. (energetic music) - [Derek] The first four are simple. One, if you have two points, you can draw a straight line between them. Two, if you have a straight line, you can extend it indefinitely. Three, given a center and a And the fourth is that all right angles are equal to each other. - [Alex] But postulate - [Derek] Which is that, if a straight line falling makes the interior angles on the same side less than two right angles, the two straight lines, meet on that side, on which are the angles less - What the hell is he talking about? That's a postulate? Like all of these are, you know, half of a sentence, and they're all blatantly obvious. And then comes five, out of left field, and it's like an entire paragraph. What is he doing? (contemplative music) - [Derek] This made it seemed like Euclid made a mistake. Greek philosopher Proclus ought even to be struck outta for it is a theorem. But if it's a theorem, we should be able to prove it from the first four postulates, so that's what many people tried. Some, including Ptolemy and Proclus, believed they had In fact, all they'd managed to do was just restate Postulate Here's one formulation. If you have a line, and a then there is a single unique line which will be parallel to the first line. For this reason, the fifth postulate is often (contemplative music) When the method of direct proof failed, other mathematicians, including tried a different approach, The idea is simple, you keep the first four but assume that the Then you use those new and if that leads to a contradiction, for example, true equals false, well, then it means your new And, therefore, the only that Euclid's version of the and you would've proven So, what would it look like if the fifth postulate were false? Well, according to Euclid, through a point not on a line, there could only be one line One alternative is that that you could draw through that point. - Well, people tried that, and they realized that thin lines had to be finite in length. And they're like, &quot;Well, that can't be.&quot; - [Derek] So this option was ruled out, it contradicted the second postulate, which states that lines can The other alternative is that you can draw more through a point not on the first line. - So that's what they would do, they would assume the and they're like, &quot;This has gotta be wrong. They couldn't find the contradiction. (intense acoustic music) - [Derek] So proof by In total, mathematicians trying to prove the fifth postulate, but everyone who tried failed. (contemplative music) Then, around 1820, Janos started spending his days and His father became worried, &quot;You must not attempt this I know this way to the very end, I have traversed this bottomless night, which extinguished all I intrigue you, leave the Learn from my example.&quot; But the young Bolyai didn't he could not leave the After years of work, he realized that maybe the fifth postulate can't be proven from the other four, it could be completely independent. (soft music) See, according to Euclid, you could have only one But Bolyai imagined a world where there could be more through that point. But how? Well, who said you needed On a surface that is curved like this, you can draw more than one line that is parallel to the original line. But wait a second, those Well, what makes straight lines special is that they're the shortest On this surface, those because the surface is curved. Here's a more familiar example. Airplanes always try to between two cities, they're basically flying but that line doesn't because the surface is curved. These shortest paths on curved surfaces are called geodesics. So, all these lines are straight, they just don't look it, because the world Bolyai had imagined turned out to be curved. We now know this as hyperbolic geometry. - You know, when I used to I would just imagine But that's not really what it is, the hyperbolic plane is much more like this piece of crocheting. So, it starts out pretty but as you move outwards, more and more fabric is created, and that would push parallel lines apart. And the further and further out you go, the amount of fabric grows exponentially, and that ends up causing So if you really wanna think I think you've gotta think about saddles, on saddles, on saddles, like it's a infinite crumpling mess. (soft music) - [Derek] But that little piece of crochet isn't the full hyperbolic plane. To show that, we need to make a map, one that fits the entire To show how this works, we're gonna fill the entire Starting in the middle, things look pretty normal, but as you go farther out from the center, you get all this extra space, so you can fit more and more triangles. So they appear smaller, but they are actually the same size. Now, since the hyperbolic you can keep adding triangles forever, and they all need to fit on the disk. So as you get closer to the edge, the triangles will appear infinitely smaller, never ending, and you can never quite reach the edge. This is known as the Poincare Disk Model. Here, straight lines are arcs of circles that intersect the disc at 90 degrees, and just like on our original shape, a straight line down the while straight lines next What's remarkable is that of hyperbolic geometry yet, he was just drawing Euclidean that Euclid's fifth postulate didn't hold. And while Bolyai found that the behavior in hyperbolic geometry is very different than Euclid's, mathematically, it seemed (soft music) In 1823, the 20-year-old &quot;I have discovered such wonderful Out of nothing, I have created (contemplative music) But Bolyai had been doing more than just tackling ancient math mysteries. In his twenties, he joined the army, where he continued developing playing the violin and dueling. He had mastered both, but with a sword in Perhaps because of his many and found it difficult to accept authority from his superiors. That made him hard to get along with. This reached a peak when, 13 cavalry officers from his garrison challenged him to a duel. Bolyai accepted their challenge, on the condition that he could play for a little Bolyai fought each of them in succession, winning all 13 duels, and leaving behind all his While Bolyai loved dueling, his first love was still mathematics. In 1832, 9 years after he discovered he published his findings to his father's textbook. Extremely proud and excited Farkas Bolyai sent it to perhaps the greatest Carl Friedrich Gauss. After careful examination, Gauss replied a few months later, &quot;To praise it would for the entire content of the work coincides almost exactly which have occupied my mind (soft music) Years earlier, Gauss had In 1824, he wrote a private in which he describes one with paradoxical, absurd theorems. For example, Gauss writes, &quot;The three angles of a triangle become as small as one wishes, if only the sides are taken large enough. Yet the area of the triangle can never exceed a definite limit.&quot; In other words, you can have a triangle but the area is finite. You can see why by using A small triangle looks pretty ordinary, but as you make it bigger, the angles start to become Eventually, all those angles go to zero, because all these lines Now, these lines are infinitely long, but because of the geometry, In the same private letter, Gauss wrote, &quot;All my efforts to and inconsistency in this have been without success.&quot; Just like Bolyai, Gauss had seemed thoroughly consistent. He named it non-Euclidean geometry, a name that stuck. It describes geometries where Euclid's first four postulates hold, but the fifth doesn't. But Gauss decided not for fear of ridicule. This aversion to a should at least be a little surprising, because there is one other geometry that we should be very familiar since we all live on a sphere. (soft music) On a sphere, straight lines these are the circles with the largest possible circumference. On Earth, the equator, are examples of great circles, and we can use this to see These lines seem to go but as you keep extending them, you find that they intersect once, and then again on the And this will always happen because they must each have the largest possible circumference, so, on a sphere, there Gauss had long been fascinated He was also a geodesist, and frequently took In the 1820s, he was tasked with surveying to help make a map. As part of this survey, he climbed the mountains near Gottingen. With the help of people they were able to carefully of several triangles, which would then be used of one place relative to another. As a reference for the survey, and to help determine the they also precisely measured formed by three mountains. But for all of Gauss' romantic notions of taking measurements (contemplative music) he was not the kindest correspondent. When Bolyai received his hero's response, he was devastated, believing that Gauss was and steal his ideas. He was so embittered by Gauss' response that he never published again. In 1848, Bolyai had to when he found out that Nikolai Lobachevsky, had independently discovered several years before Bolyai had published his 24 page long appendix. When Bolyai died in 1860, he left behind 20,000 pages of unpublished mathematical manuscripts. He would not know that Gauss did independently discover non-Euclidean geometry, nor would he know, that Gauss had written to a friend, &quot;I regard this young geometer, Bolyai, as a genius of the first order.&quot; (soft music) While Bolyai was embittered, non-Euclidean geometries Until 1854, spherical geometry a non-Euclidean geometry. That's because, on a sphere, lines can't be extended indefinitely. This is what earlier and therefore dismissed this geometry, since Euclid's second But in 1854, Riemann changed the second postulate from an infinite extension to something that is, quote, &quot;unbounded,&quot; so that the second postulate With this change, another valid non-Euclidean geometry. By using the generalized four postulates, and taking the fifth as there you could now derive spherical Would you consider the Would it have been better if - If he never wrote that down, he would've stunted his geometry, 'cause he wouldn't be able to prove a lot of things that he claimed to have. It's beautiful that he wrote this. It's beautiful that trying to refute him, only to discover that, in writing this in the first place. - [Derek] So, while Euclid was right to write down the fifth postulate, he did make a different mistake. - So here's the problem Definition 1, &quot;A point is What does it mean to have a part? What is a part? What does it mean not to have a part? &quot;A line is a breadthless length.&quot; What does it mean to have breadth? Lying evenly within itself, within the points on itself? What the hell is he talking about? We read this two minutes ago, and we were nodding along like, &quot;Yeah, completely makes It's all nonsense. Don't give me a definition that's gonna have an infinite recursion. If you give me a definition then you have to tell me If you tell me what that is, you have to tell me what - Are the definitions a bad idea? - You shouldn't have definitions, you should have undefined terms. I'm not gonna tell you what a point is, I'm not gonna tell you what a line is, I'm not gonna tell you what a plane is. All I'm gonna tell you is that they're assumed to satisfy. It's the relationships between not the definitions of And once you free your all of a sudden, you realize that there's a in which, by line, you mean great circle, and by plane, you mean sphere, and by point, you mean and then four of those just not the fifth. And similarly, there's another model, something called a disk which, the disk is the plane. What I mean by straight lines is arcs of circles that and then points are And the disk is the plane. - [Derek] See, you can (thoughtful music) The first four postulates are like the minimum rules and then the fifth postulate selects the world that you'll play in. If you pick that there you're playing in spherical geometry. If you choose one parallel line, you're playing in flat geometry. And if you go for more then you're playing in But Riemann decided to Instead of selecting just why not combine them all into one? During his inaugural speech in 1854, he laid out the groundwork for a geometry where the curvature could One part might be flat, another part might be slightly curved, and yet another part might And this geometry wouldn't be limited to two-dimensional planes either, it could be extended to (contemplative music) Another breakthrough came in 1868, when Eugenio Beltrami unequivocally proved that hyperbolic and spherical geometry were just as consistent That is, if there were any inconsistencies in hyperbolic or spherical geometry, then they must also be present The prospects for these new And it turns out, this (soft music) In 1905, Einstein proposed the which is based on just two postulates. One, &quot;The laws of physics are the same in all inertial frames of reference.&quot; And two, &quot;The speed of light in a vacuum is the same for all inertial observers.&quot; So, as a result, space But that created a problem because, according to Newton, the force of gravity is to the distance between But in Einstein's special relativity, that distance is no longer well-defined. In whose reference frame are we measuring? And so Einstein had to relativity and gravity. Two years later, in 1907, Einstein had the happiest he imagined a man falling And what made Einstein so joyful is that he realized that he would feel absolutely weightless, and if he let go of an object, it would just remain in It would be just like being floating around in a spaceship And that is an inertial observer. Now, here's the big breakthrough, Einstein realized that they are identical, because there is no to determine whether you're in free fall in a uniform gravitational field, or whether you are in deep space, not near any massive objects. And so the free-falling man too must be an inertial observer, meaning he is not accelerating, and he's not experiencing But if gravity is not a force, then how do you explain things like the space station orbiting Earth? Shouldn't it just fly Well, astronauts in the space And that's the key, it feels just as if they're in a straight line. It feels like that because that's precisely they're traveling in a straight line. How, then, could that to a distant observer? The answer is, because the space time that See, massive objects curve spacetime, and objects moving will follow the shortest path the geodesic. So, while astronauts in the space station are following a straight line, it appears curved to a distant observer because the Earth curves So, the behavior of straight is core to understanding And in the more than a hundred the general theory of relativity has been remarkably successful. (soft music) In 2014, astronomers briefly a violent and extremely In fact, they saw the exact same supernova in four different places. How? Well, in between the supernova and earth, there was a massive galaxy, so light from the supernova, which was spreading out in all directions, had several different and four of those reached Earth at approximately the same time. The galaxy had functioned as The astronomers realized that might also lens the light but with different path lengths and gravitational potentials, so the light would reach After careful modeling, they predicted that of that supernova just a year later. And on the 11th of December, 2015, just as predicted, they saw In addition to being able of curved spacetime, we can now even measure the gravitational waves far, far away, like the merger of black holes. And according to a recent the fabric of spacetime with the remnants of grand cosmic events. In the hundred years since countless findings have and at its very core are of Bolyai and Riemann. But so far, all the are local distortions of spacetime. What is the shape of the entire universe? (stars whooshing) (contemplative music) Using the differences we can find that out too. In flat geometry, we expect all the angles of a triangle to add up to 180 degrees without fail. But in spherical geometry, the angles don't add up to Similarly in hyperbolic geometry, the angles add up to So, to determine the you just need to measure And measuring a triangle is 200 years ago. In fact, this led some to speculate that he was actually trying of space itself. The angle he found, 180 degrees, within observational error. But that shouldn't be very surprising. Take this balloon, for example, If I draw a small triangle on it, well, the surface I'm so the angles inside the triangle will add up to essentially 180 degrees. Only if I make the triangle large enough will the effects of and then the angles in the triangle will add up to more than 180 degrees. And this was the problem even if he was trying of space itself, for which the triangle he measured relative to the size of the universe. (ball thudding) (soft music) So, in order to overcome the scale issue that Gauss encountered, we need to scale the triangles up to the largest triangles we can. And since looking further and further away is the same as looking we need to look back as far as possible, to the very first light we can see, the Cosmic Microwave Background, or CMB, a picture from when the universe While the CMB is almost there are some spots that are Now, we know how far away the CMB is, so if we can figure out then we can draw a cosmic triangle. It's thought that the first density and temperature variations originated from quantum fluctuations in the very early universe, which were then blown up But due to this rapid expansion, not all regions were in causal So, using the information we have of how the early universe evolved, astronomers can predict how should appear in the CMB. This is what this power spectrum shows, essentially a histogram of how often each spot size should occur So now we have something to If the universe is flat, the angle we measure on the sky should be the same as we'd expect. But if the universe is the angles of the triangle should add up to more than 180 degrees, so the angle we'd measure and this peak would shift to the left. Similarly, if the universe then spots should appear and this peak would shift to the right. So, what do we measure? This is the data from the Plank mission, which is almost exactly what you'd expect if the universe were flat. This mission also gives us for the curvature of the universe, which is 0.0007, plus minus 0.0019. So that's basically zero So we're fairly certain that the universe we live in is flat. But living in a flat universe seems to be remarkably serendipitous. (contemplative music) Right now, the average mass energy density comes down to the equivalent per cubic meter. If, on average, that was the universe would've been If there were just one less, the curvature would be And so far, we're not has the mass energy density it has. What we do know is that general relativity is one of our best physical and at the very heart of it, are those paradoxical and ones we found because mathematicians thinking about a single sentence from the world's most famous math text. (high-tech blooping) When it comes to human brilliance, it's not just what you know, it's also how you think, and a great way to improve how you think is by building your knowledge So if you're looking to do just that, then check out this video's With Brilliant, you can master key concepts in everything from math and data science to programming and technology. All you have to do is set your goal, and Brilliant will design the giving you all the tools Want to follow in the Then Brilliant's latest is the perfect addition to The course takes you on a tour through the essentials of geometry, getting you hands-on with concepts to help sharpen your A solid foundation in geometry can be a launchpad to everything from computer graphics and data clustering in AI algorithms to understanding Einstein's Beyond measurement, Brilliant has a huge But what I love most about Brilliant is that they connect what you And because each lesson is so you can put what you've To try everything Brilliant has to offer for free for a full 30 days, visit brilliant.org/veritasium, or click that link down For the first 200 of you, you'll get 20% off Brilliant's So, I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.