Did you leave your NVD there? Yes. That's it. It's a very nice place, you'll like it. Okay, well, thank you. We'll be in touch, anyway And maybe some of you will have to go with the recon. Okay. All right, gentlemen, I'm not saying goodbye. Turn it off, turn it off. &quot;Woody&quot; is coming. &quot;Grabchik,&quot; &quot;Hello,&quot; me. Who's coming tomorrow. What about &quot;Grabchik&quot;? Yeah! He's in the first platoon now, he was transferred: &quot;You can transfer wherever you want.&quot; War is hell. There used to be enemy positions here. There used to be enemy positions here. But it was completely burned down by TMs and drops. The AGS was working. The 105th [caliber] was ours, the 82nd, the 155th cluster munition, and they f***ed it up. I believe you Since we've pushed back some territory there, the war is getting a little more complicated every day. One of the new things is that drones with dropped munitions have appeared here. They can't be effective enough here because of the thicket. But still, if a &quot;birdie&quot; hovers over you, it will probably drop a bomb on your head. And that's why we have this damn gimmick. And you go out with the drone face to face like a real man with balls of steel. And you look at it like this... You beef with it. You say to everybody: &quot;NATO close the sky&quot;. I don't give a damn, nobody's going to fly over. You bring it up like that. And then you stand there, a civilian working in air defense. And somebody flies, for example. You're locked on through this... And there's a button here. And you have to hold it like this. And you put pressure on it. And you just move it and it starts to fall. Then you turn it off. There is definitely an enemy within a hundred meters. So you always have your ear to the ground, because if someone is sneaking around, you're probably going to kill them.. If you suddenly decide to go there, do not go further than the dead body, because there is a dead body. And behind it, there are OZMs [land mines], the whole... I'll show you now. You have to be as careful as possible. Some neighbor's scum is just lying there rotting, stinking up the guys' position. There is almost no visual observation here, and acoustic observation is made difficult by the f****ng croaking of the damn frogs. But we stayed awake for a very long time, so the exhaustion reached a level where we could hear human voices in the croaking, and everyone heard the same words. It's bad to stay awake for a long time. And &quot;Woody&quot; is a little lion. The god of war. No, it's more like him. He's a little lion, and I'm a big jackal. But we are mates, damn it. Her majesty war. War is hell. The distance is 100-110 meters. Maybe they have some kind of observation post or vantage point. You can control here and conduct surveillance no more than 30 meters ahead, both acoustic and visual. Then you have to believe that no one is there. Well, gentlemen, let's move. I officially declare that I have stepped on a tripwire here. We had just started to gain distance and it fell seven meters in front of him. We've just started and it's like this... The flash is 7 meters away. Did you vomit a lot? I didn't vomit anything. I vomited water. Then the second time, a tree fell. In front of the face. We are going to give you a medicine through your vein so that you don't get sick and vomit. You are now going to explain to your friend how to give an intravenous. And you two are now with him... Carefully. s everyone okay? 200 milligrams in vein for everyone. That's it. We have gentlemen who have been poisoned by the enemy's cannon artillery. I don't know how the hell it didn't hit us. We were higher than the explosion. It went down, right? Wait a second, because there's a &quot;***&quot; running with a radio here. What happened? 300 [wounded] on ***. hat's the mechanism of injury? What happened? in case he has massive bleeding in any of his limbs, put a tourniquet over there. Pause. Then just stay in the position, monitor his condition and wait. Pause. If there is no shelling for 15 minutes, start moving the wounded to the ***. Over. Yes, he stepped on a PMN mine, he has a traumatic amputation of his right limb. And, most likely, fragments in his left limb. A tire. The wounded is being brought to us. At this point, we have a plaster ready to fix the catheter. We have already collected saline for irrigation. e are already heating up the Ready Heat. We have the thermal blanket ready. The bandages are being unpacked. We have tranexamic acid diluted 1 to 1. 25 mg of ketamine and 2 grams of cefazolin have been collected. And Mr. &quot;Woody&quot; is already filling in the card And he is already writing down the medications that we are going to give to our gentleman, which will save us time in working with the wounded. We are going to give him a shot of ketamine and then an antibiotic. Traumatic amputation of a limb is quite painful. We are going to give him 25 mg of ketamine now. And later, before the evacuation, when we do all the manipulations, mobilize the limb, wrap it. We will give him another 25 mg of ketamine before the evacuation. I may do that on the riverbank before I load him into the boat. To reduce the gentleman's unpleasant impressions of today. You will bring him on a stretcher, right? Yes, sir. Gentlemen of the State Border Guard. &quot;Zvirobiy&quot; and who else? &quot;Parkhom&quot;. irst, fill up the generator, because we have 16 percent on the Ecoflow Prepare some water in case we have to wash the blood off the stretcher. I want you to do everything for me. Plus? You're being filmed. You're going to be a star. Be careful. Hi, &quot;Grabchik&quot;. How are you? We put it in a vein as soon as possible and give him all the stuff as soon as possible. Pump it a bit. Oli&quot;, brother, please put on an oximeter just in case. Let's see what his vitals are. I can see he's okay. Pulse is 58. It's okay. Yes, Mr. &quot;Grabchik&quot;. Talk, talk, talk Tell us a joke. &quot;Grabchik&quot;, open your eyes! Have you finished with tamponade on the right leg? No... I love Azov. Take him on a stretcher. Take him outside and wait for me. 'll cover him there and do the rest of the manipulations. On the street. &quot;Oko&quot;, brother!