Have you been learning English for years and years, but you still think in your Do you need to translate This creates pauses and hesitations. It makes you speak more slowly and you feel So today, let's fix that. You're going to learn how to train your You'll learn 4 proven ways and you'll see results by the end of this week. And at the end, I'll share some bonus tips Think of all the things that you do in your don't require a lot of conscious For me, it would be getting showered in the And for a lot of people, it And then think of all the chores you all those various things that Well, why don't you use that Now you might be saying or thinking Well, Jennifer, what should I think about? What can I think about? And here's the best part. In order to practice thinking in English, you just need to make very simple You don't need to make it overly complex. You don't need to focus on certain Just look around and observe the room Let's say you're brushing your teeth Now remember, you don't have to say this out loud. You can simply think in your head, but think Think about that. I'm picking up the toothpaste. I'm taking off the cap. I'm putting toothpaste on my toothbrush. My toothbrush is very old. I should buy a new toothbrush. The toothpaste smells minty. I never noticed the color Now think of how boring this conversation is. In your everyday life, you would your toothbrush, or brushing your teeth, right? But you are doing this in your head And that's just one very simple two times a day, maybe three or more times a day. Think of all the other things and how you can about what you see around you, and you're going to As a tip, you can start with simple statements, my toothbrush is old, and then take that Can you change the verb tense? Can you ask a question? Can you add an adjective so you make it more complex as an additional exercise? But start simple and then add on. So if you're committed to trying Put toothpaste in the comments. Why not #2 speak out loud That is very beneficial to train your to start processing sentence But thinking something in your head is not the Once you open your mouth and say the You're practicing your speaking skills now. You might be thinking to yourself, well, This is the one thing I want to do in English, I live in a country where That's OK because there are easy ways that My favorite way and native as well to practice their speaking skills. My favorite way is a website All you need to Google is Random Question I will leave my favorite Now what you can do with these click the button that generates a random question. Now what you need to do is as I want you to open your mouth and start speaking. Don't think about grammar, don't think about Open your mouth and start speaking. Make it your goal to speak for You can record yourself speaking. You can just use the voice You can also set a timer for so when that timer goes off then you know You don't need to do that. It's just an option. Now, after you can listen to that recording grammar, sentence structure, vocabulary, However, as you're doing the exercise, you're not But here's the best part, because you have already taken the time Maybe you get 510, even 20 minutes you're observing, you're making All of that practice that you just did will Give this activity one week, I promise you, if you do this three times three times a day in 30 days, you are going So if you're committed to trying this exercise, put let's go, put, let's go in This is a more guided method you can think in your mind, I've already mentioned why. Or you can practice speaking out question generator you are going to use an image. How are you going to find an image? You can simply go to Google images and put a random word in like Or you can go to a website that shares in the description as well, and just choose This is an exercise that I do with my And the conversations that we have, the examples Now, this is an activity that I do So make sure you subscribe so you know the So here's an image that I used and the students shared such interesting examples. Now all you have to do is describe this image. You can make observations they're clothing the background, or you can So in this image you might say the man you might say there's an umbrella next to the man. And again you can make simple There's a bright multi colored You can even have fun with this and try So this is what my students did. Some of them said that the Other people had funny things like the So it was really interesting the So you can take any image and use Maybe on the way to work. If you're on the bus or train, you think in your head, or you can So are you going to practice I'm committed but I'm I'm committed committed to practicing this activity and I results that you're going to get are going to Number 4A daily summary. Now this is an activity that you should start summary is a great way to reflect on the day What areas could I improve on? And this is just a great thing to do But we'll focus on how this activity can help you Well, the same thing that we talked about before. You can think these activities in your this is a great time to just think the activities. If you are in a more private place, And always remember the option is And with your daily summary, of You can talk about the best part of three things you're grateful for, three things And the best part is you don't So you don't need to do this at night. Maybe your nights are very for school or preparing for work the next day. So you could do this activity And you can summarize your morning. So the daily summary doesn't You could summarize your morning, you you could summarize your evening. Or you can do this multiple times a day. So you could summarize your morning you have the opportunity to do this twice a day. Whatever works best for you. The more you practice, the I have two bonus tips for you. Bonus tip #1 Surround yourself Ask yourself, what can I do to Can you change the settings on Can you start listening to English music? Can you start watching English TV shows? What can you do that's easy for you to Can you put labels on all the items in a room So think about one thing, one thing that you Because of course, the more you the more that your brain And bonus tip #2 the most important is be patient. This is not going to dramatically But in seven days, you will see some results. In 14 days, you will see some results. In 30 days, you will see some results. But if you take those results from the seven The result is a lot bigger than you may realize. And that's only 30 days. Imagine you do these four. Very simple, free activities and you do these activities every day for 90 days. Imagine the results that are possible. So be patient. Can you do that for me? Can you be patient? Well, if you can put yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, Now I have an entire video to help so make sure you watch it right now.