As you know, I had earlier made a video on Gambit. That video got more than 2 million views on That was a short video so I was not able to I was recently going through all the comments So in this video, I will go through the Tennison try to answer all your questions. Plus, I will also show you all the different that you can use to win more games. So stay tuned till the end and keep watching Hello Chess Friends, I am Jeetendra Advani. If this is your first time on this channel and become a better chess player, then start you don't miss any of my videos. Before we begin, I would strongly recommend players rated below 1800. Plus, there are high chances that your opponent have much time to think so you should play blitz and the bullets. Okay, so let's start with the king's pawn Black responds with the Scandinavian Defense Now as white, you will play this surprising Now here, there were a lot of comments from Our opponent generally plays pawn to e5 and Well, let me show you another way in which Let's start with the move knight f3. This invites black to play the move pawn to the gambit. From here, the most natural move from black And then, as you know, we will play knight Now if black tries to hang on to this pawn, He can play bishop to f5 or queen to d5 or I will show you tricks in all these lines reply from black that is, knight to f6. To this, we will play pawn to d3. Black wants to get rid of this awkwardly placed with our bishop. In this position, I had shown you that black There were some comments saying that this real games. Well, I can guarantee you that you will see I will tell you why. Look, when I talk about less rated players, pieces getting close to them, especially if So they try to kick off this knight immediately Anyone who hasn't seen this trap before has So from here, we will play knight to f7 forking The king is forced to capture. Then we will play bishop to g6 check and the So that was the first variation which I had Now let me just go back and show you what From here, you can attack this pawn with your Again, he tries to defend this pawn so he You will now attack the pawn for the third This will force black to play queen to d4 If he plays this, then he is gone. Let me show you how. First, you will play queen b5 check attacking Black's response is pretty much forced. He will have to play bishop to d7. Now you can capture this b7 pawn. From here, I can guarantee you most of your they are not only saving the rook but also But to their surprise, you will play this Again, black is now forced to play queen to The thinking behind this is to trade off queens But your opponent will be shocked to see your The most obvious response would be queen takes But if you look at it carefully, you have Can you spot it? Yes, it is queen to c8. That's checkmate &amp; it's game over. Now let me just go back &amp; show you the third What happens if black plays queen to d5. He is not only protecting the pawn but also You should now play pawn to d3, Protecting Now if your opponent plays knight f6 or bishop the queen. And after the queen moves, you can easily ahead in development. So Let's go back again. So that's why if black wants to retain any Now once again, we are going to capture with Which looks very odd because you are giving So the most natural move from black would Your opponent won't realize but he is actually Because after this, you will play bishop to The queen is trapped &amp; has nowhere to go. The only safe square left is G4. But after queen captures queen and Bishop and the Black rook is gone. Okay, Now let's go back and see another move I would say this is the worst possible move playing bishop to c4 and attacking the weakest Here, black is left with no option so he will After this, I would play pawn to d3. If black wants to keep the material advantage, I would not be too concerned about this pawn If black captures again, you can take with What you are looking to do is to clear up in the game. You have your queen attacking this pawn. You have your bishop and knight eyeing down You can get your rook to attack along these Whereas, if you see Black's position, all nothing. So all in all, you have a lot of attacking Let me know in the comments if you have been Hit the thumbs up if you liked this video. Don't forget to Subscribe for more such chess For some interesting chess tips, tricks and Links are in the description box below. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in