Welcome to another Mathologer video. Last time I showed you how the mathematical superstar Euler discovered this stunning equal to the sum of the reciprocals of the mathematical magic that allowed him infinite product. And this infinite between PI and all the prime numbers In fact, we'll see that this identity is that connects the famous Riemann to the prime numbers. Along the way we'll identities involving pi, a seriously numbers, wait for it, and a couple of all-time classics. So buckle your a wild ride. We'll warm up by a couple of other beautiful identities here we go. Now we'll line up things bottom by 1/2 squared. Expand term times 1/1 squared equals well, of times 1/2 squared equals 1/4 bottom from the top. On the right side, Beautiful! Anyway so when we subtract out. On the left, we have 1 times the the fraction and so we get this. And there pi pretty much for free. There's one more which we'll need later. So let's just let's subtract the bottom from the top the gaps on top with the There and there, etc. And on the left side can also write like that. Okay, three new from the original one. To be able to unsimplified left sides. Now, at the top, by an arbitrary number z we're now z, the famous Riemann zeta function. The for the special case z=2 these zeta function identities we'll just the 2 exponents by z's. There you go. new identities hold in exactly the same z=2. Really quite Now as a first application of these that's a special value. The resulting harmonic series and is one of the most quite a few of you will know a lot about there's some nice stuff coming up here. we just start adding: so 1 plus 1/2 Since the terms we add are all positive, This means that either our infinity, in which case it makes sense to partial sums sneak up to a finite overall finite sum like in the case of zeta at squared over 6, or do we get an infinite first assume that the sum at the top is be absolutely sure that everything we stays valid. Okay at the top is greater than 1/2 at at the bottom, and so on. The top is means that the sum at the top is greater this contradicts what we get out of the which is 1/2 which means that the sums that our assumption that our original and this means the assumption was wrong In fact, from what we just said it infinite. Anyway, for later just remember what's important about the zeta function the prime numbers. Euler managed to pin simple trick that got us this second limit. You'll see what I mean by this. start by making a copy. Then we multiply just do it, here we go. on the right all the fractions on the 3 get wiped out. And, on the left, something minus 1/3 to the power of gives this guy here. Now just rinse and second term on the right and subtract the bottom from the top which wipes out what? Well divisible by 5 this time. And we just get this. So all the terms on the right out and the numbers in the denominators Now, just in case you know a little bit sieve of Eratosthenes in action in this that's just 1. So now we can solve product formula for the Riemann zeta biggest deals in mathematics and it's paper in which Bernhard Riemann states quick look at this. There it is, all in it is, alright, that's exactly what we more compact way. So what is this paper happen to speak German: &quot;Ueber die Anzahl der Primzahlen under einer gegebenen Groesse.&quot; (That was perfect :) which translates to given value&quot;. Now what Riemann manages to do in this paper is to derive a formula that allows to calculate the number of actually having to calculate all those For example, recently mathematicians used this formula to figure out the exact number of primes less than 10 to the monster number here and Riemann's magic prime numbers would be distributed in Riemann hypothesis that's also part of big deal is all about. Ok now I won't results for you show you some really amazing and that follow from Euler's product formula. so let's just go for this special value the left side is infinity. Now wait for This actually implies that there are Because if there was only finitely many then the product on the right would not possible. I'm pretty sure you didn't next trick. Set z equal from on the left there and actually this shows again that there must be there were only finitely many the rational number. But this is impossible irrational. Well, of course, proving that PI squared over 6 is irrational is much much much longer than proving that there's So our second proof of the infinitude of killing a fly with a bazooka. Still a lot like me, both the killing of the fly and reciprocal of this identity. This is Euler's product connecting the primes with pi that I promised you at the beginning. Now this stunning following very curious fact: What we randomly. Then the probability that these no common factors except for PI squared which is about 61%. So how on fact? Well let's have a look. The to be even is what? Well 1/2, obviously. randomly picked numbers to be both anything to do with each other. So to 1 over 2 squared. How about the by 2? Well, that's simply 1 minus 1/2 squared and you can see something factor up there. Great, now we can play numbers. So, for example, the divisible by 3 is just 1-1/3^2 which is equal to the second factor, and so on, which shows that no common prime factors is equal to the the probability of both numbers to be squared. Well, actually, at least two of little bit more justification and, well, result really is true and can be turned approximate pi. What you do is you natural numbers and calculate how many I've actually run a simulation on six hundred and eight thousand probability is approximately, well, just is approximately this expression here Well, it's not great, but people actually got quite a bit of the random numbers from fun data set. pi in the sky), the digits of pi (sort of interpret these as that you come across on your way to work joke but had to be done :) this formula. 1/zeta(2) is equal to this probability and this actually does generalise in a to 3 and you get the numbers are relatively prime. And you can Here's another fun question for you to pi do you get if you use this identity directly say by truncating the product prime less than 100? Leave your teasers that I mentioned along the way Now how did this work for you? Hope you you a bit of a preview of what I'd like again). The point of departure for the identity that I derived for you at the second way of defining the Riemann zeta at the core of this definition is in the original pluses only one. I'll use ideas to give a really accessible continuation of the zeta function that will include a new take on the whole 1+2+3+...=-1/12 business, as well as chasing Riemann hypothesis is all about. Stay tuned.