The lights go out on Maple street, as a young man she once thought she knew. She sits at the kitchen counter, absently ago, but she just can't bring herself to stand She glances at the baby monitor sitting next Steady, peaceful breathing. The baby is fine. No one needs a thing from her right now. She stares at the seat across from her, where and breakfast before they start the day. She glances at the clock: 8 PM. He'll be home soon. She'll have to face him, have to find a way Pretend she doesn't know that he's getting The thought turns her stomach. It wasn't always like this. Their marriage wasn't always a tense charade, He was sweet that first year, he'd buy her her in the morning before they'd even brushed He wouldn't come home smelling like his secretary's But ever since the baby, something's been The light behind his eyes has gone dim. He won't help with late-night feedings, won't as if the baby doesn't exist. His own son. He just comes home, stares vacantly at the so much as a single complaint. She hasn't slept in weeks, she hasn't been months. Then, a sound shakes her from her thoughts. She hears the unmistakable rumble of a car smile on her face. Maybe she'll leave him, maybe tonight she'll will change everything: &quot;I want a divorce.&quot; The baby barely has a father now, what difference The woman's husband stumbles through the door, on his breath. He greets her with a kiss on the cheek, more grabs himself a can of soda from the fridge. She offers him some stew from the stovetop, She doesn't bother asking when or how, when There's no point, she knows he'll only lie. &quot;Do you want to say goodnight to the baby?&quot; She asks. It's a test, as she watches his face for any &quot;Isn't it asleep by now?&quot; It. He calls their son &quot;it.&quot; &quot;He's sleeping, but you could still go up If you're quiet.&quot; &quot;I had a long day. I'm tired. I'll see it in the morning.&quot; She can't help herself. &quot;Him.&quot; &quot;What's that?&quot; &quot;Him. He's not a thing. He's our child.&quot; He sets the can on the coffee table with a &quot;Do you have to nitpick every word that comes She deflates at the outburst. &quot;No.&quot; He sighs, shaking his head. &quot;Don't look at me like that. I can't stand when you stare at me.&quot; She averts her eyes, looking down. &quot;Fine. I'll go up and check on him. You enjoy your relaxation time.&quot; That's it. Tonight is the night. She's going to pack a bag tonight. She'll leave, and start a new life, just her He won't even miss them when they're gone, She'll just go upstairs, check the baby, and Then she'll just cut and run. It's not like he deserves a proper goodbye place. As she fantasizes about leaving him, spending her son, and maybe a dog, she finds that the She scoops him up into her arms to make sure just a mess. As she holds him, he stirs awake and begins &quot;Oh sweetheart...I'll need to change you, Shh, shh, it's okay. You're alright.&quot; &quot;What's wrong?&quot; Her husband's voice comes from the doorway, &quot;It doesn't concern you.&quot; She can't help herself, her resentment creeps &quot;He just needs a bath.&quot; &quot;What, you think I can't bathe my own son?&quot; He scoffs. &quot;That's it?&quot; &quot;Well, you haven't done it yet. So.&quot; When she turns to look at her husband, there &quot;I'll do it now.&quot; Something in his voice is so sincere, she Maybe he'll really try. Maybe things will go back to how they used And she really, really needs a rest. So, she hands the baby over to him, and sits nursery. Before too long, the exhaustion overcomes In her sleep, she can't see her husband leaving last twenty minutes of the Dodgers game, leaving When she stirs awake, the crib is still empty. She can still hear the water running, and She just knows what has happened. What she let happen. No, what he did. A glance into the bathroom confirms her suspicions, heartbreak, she tears down the stairs to confront She finds him asleep on the couch, and takes tears from her eyes. Did he do it by accident? Or on purpose, to punish her, to free himself her heart beyond repair? It doesn't matter, in the end. What's done is done, whether he meant it or But what can she do? What could ever make this right? She wants to scream, to set the house on fire, Then, she spots it: the baseball bat leaned intruder. She picks it up, feeling the weight of the Swung hard enough, with real intent behind Slowly, thoughtfully, she walks back toward It only takes one good hit to get the job anyway as something inside of her bends and until her vision comes back, and everything He doesn't even scream, never wakes from his when she gets her revenge. He's just gone. She wipes the red from her eyes, and lets She started the day as a wife, as a mother, He deserved it, she tells herself. He took her baby from her, so she got him But why doesn't she feel any relief? Why does she still feel the gnawing grief clawing at her heart? First thing's first, she needs to get him eyes and nosy neighbors. She could try to bury him, but where? The yard isn't exactly private, and she's sunrise. No, that won't do. Then the idea hits her, and she grabs him body of the man she once loved toward the He's heavy, much heavier than she expected, for a reason. She grunts and struggles as she drags him against the steps before reminding herself- She surprises herself with a laugh, a dry She drags him past the last stair, and he that she converted into her home art studio things were still good. Her eyes dart about the room, the half-finished when she got pregnant, the paints and long-dried-out Her eyes settle on a metal frame, large and She had crafted it years ago, intending to got around to it. No, she had been forced to put it away. Her husband hadn't liked it, had thought it working with such heavy materials. Just another thing he took from her. Another dream he destroyed. It's just about his size, now that she takes ground so close by. With a little bit of muscle, some determination, And there are the tubs of cement, still sealed She could shove him into the frame, paint would be like he had disappeared in the night. A fitting coffin for the man, she thought. A perfect place to hide him, too. No one would ever know. No bones to dig up in the garden out back, floorboard. She smiled to herself, just a little bit. In death, her husband would help her finish She didn't consider herself a wife or a mother, And he would be her art. As she mixes the cement, she hums a little like peace. Everything is ruined, her life as she knew is here in the art studio, creating again. &quot;Not a waste of time now, is it?&quot; She remarks to her husband's body. He doesn't answer. Typical. &quot;Why get an art degree, you said? Well, it prepared me for this, didn't it? I wonder what I'll do with you when you're Maybe I'll keep you down here. But that seems like a waste. Maybe I'll get you displayed in a gallery, You'll be my masterpiece. You'd hate that, wouldn't you? Me, thriving, creating, all without you there As she waits for the concrete to become usable, frame. Time to put her ex-husband in his place. She lifts him, and begins to wedge his body He is heavy, getting heavier all the time, that she would have to clean up and bleach is in place. He looks correct to her, sitting there in Ready to become something new, something different, The concrete is ready, and she begins to smooth blood, and sweat and grit, layer upon layer Mix, smooth, wait, mix, smooth, wait. All the while she talks to him, weeps bitter At one point, she pricks her finger, her blood of the sculpture. For days she carries on this way, not breaking After three days pass, she runs out of concrete. But the sculpture is not finished, she'll She takes a shower, washing away the dust, clean clothes, and takes a drive into town. She picks up more concrete first, telling she's working on. He asks if she's married, if her husband will &quot;I'm recently separated.&quot; She replies. On the way home, a small store catches her It's a place she's driven by plenty of times, tapered candles and strange leather-bound She isn't sure if she believes in this sort her park and walk inside anyway. A gnarled old woman behind the counter spots a room in the back. It's different there, darker, filled with skulls that might be human, though she isn't In the back of the room, there is a bottle What it's doing here, she couldn't be certain. But as soon as she sets eyes on it, she knows sculpture to make it truly complete. She brings it to the woman at the counter, No charge. I can tell you really need it. Just be careful what you use it for, it's She wants to ask what that means, what is red paint, but she doesn't. She's much too exhausted, and much too determined on her masterpiece. She drives straight home, and hauls the concrete basement. She's dizzy from hunger and lack of sleep, She has one singular vision right now, and She mixes more concrete and slathers the whole head, the arms at its sides, the legs and in thick gray sludge. In potential. A blank canvas. Before it dries, she opens the paint. It smells musty, rich, and somehow ancient. It clings to the bristles of her brush like the sculpture eagerly, spreading out as if She paints the whole thing, every inch of At first, it doesn't seem as if there will that little bottle coats the whole figure She looks down at her hands, stained just baseball bat. She looks back up at her creation, the amalgamation pure, primal rage, and begins to cry. The tears fall freely into her palms and, concrete and paint until they disappear into Then, she takes a step back, watching it all All of that work, all of that time, that great, has made of it. She loves it and she hates it all at once, its eyes would be, if it had them. She half expects to see something looking She shakes her head, looking down at the floor Then, she hears the sound of stone and metal Her gaze snaps back up, and she sees that Its head, turned in her direction. In an instant, her husband's words come back &quot;Don't look at me like that. I can't stand when you stare at me like that.&quot; It couldn't be...She stares at it for a long She blinks. Her eyes open, and the sculpture is gone. There it is again, the grind of metal and Then, with the sound of bones snapping, everything Her hate, her vengeance, her desperate act the most unusual paint, led to the creation be known as...SCP-173. check out the Dr. Bob Patreon and become a Now go and watch another entry from the files