"Hi! Welcome back to my channel for another gonna turn this cheap ugly store-bought globe Why globe you may ask? Because I...freaking...love...GLOBES I think a good globe is a piece of art, it educational tool. It's a way to look around is your desire. It's aesthetic to look at and places. Also, all maps are wrong, globe So there's one problem, all of the globes poor, most of them are made for children so Then we have the expensive globes, which are have the budget for, especially for a student. why not make my own globe? How hard could So a year ago I came into this English company to handcraft globes with artisans, which inspired one, which is no longer my taste, also it's found myself making another one. as well as their Instagram, drooling over ass masterpiece"), I figure their process First, they have a Cartographer draw the maps, Then they paint a wash layer onto each gore, one by one, stretch it out and smooth it onto the globe with watercolor, they have a variety Finally, they varnish the globe to make it stand. to my project. First of all, I can't paint with an inkjet printer, so the watercolor map. in photoshop while making the map. from a store. Now comes the satisfying part, peeling off across the equator and the prime meridian. from. Or you can just stab it and violently peeling footage). Are you ready for some peeeel Now is the part that took me a whole week, this quick. found this incredible website where you can free, the best part is that you can edit this below. of mainland, border and text label in Illustrator, Then I paint the map in photoshop. this map into 12 gores segment. a gore, a gore is this curvy triangular shape, the tips of it are the 2 poles, so if you that peelie will be a gore. This is a way spherical surface to form a globe. You can wish, but 12 is the standard, as each gore of longitude, you'll understand why later in full detail on how to do this if you would me and download the finished printable map have to relocate the text label to its spot. so I'm putting drawings of famous landmarks I'll put a free download link of the file Now onto the handcrafting. I print the map Cut it out, as first I used the utility knife is easier to work with. Now the bellerby company the sphere. I can't do that as I said that I use white PVC glue, with a few drops of The white glue is enough to soften the paper Initially, I worked with the old 22cm globe Now is the hardest part, applying the gores this is done later on the "succeed attempt". finished, you can see the latitudes of each the equator was a mess, also I realize the Peel that all off and start over. longitudes, and instead of applying gores together and apply it straight from the north And....the latitudes still didn't line up, the first gore a little off from the correct and eventually won't line up). Also even it still looked confusing , because with the between 2 longitudes, so the cutlines would why earlier I told you that you should divide of each segment would also be the main longitudes. area apparently didn't have enough space. I went on buying a bigger globe, this one is 30 cm in diameter. Becuz I think bigger the sphere, the less curvature the surface Why do I think so? Becuz last year I made on the 1st try, what a miracle, or I would Now I have to re-divide the map into 12 gores, that the map is incorrect, as this gore segment that the latitudes on my gores are not in gonna distort the map to shift the latitudes as a guild. I also draw some traffic road one city to another. I also added more longitudes to relocate the texts and label, due to the me another whole week... gore. Andddd......fail #3, same problem, latitudes So here we go again for attempt #4, I draw the bellerby globemakers do, in hope of correctly anddddd, nope. But there's a bigger issue. a huge gap between the last and the first globe, so apparently, the printing percentage After reconsidering, I decided to change the printing paper to a thinner type of paper, paper, also the print doesn't look as sharp glossy one, but it's the type of paper I a try. Spoiler alert, it... didn't make (show unline latitudes footage) *grunge in I was thinking of giving up becuz this project But in a moment of depression, I came up with onto the sphere using double-sided tape, all that part is finished, I finally applying sphere as I had been doing all those times. it worked! (back to the past) an even layer of glue to the back of the gore, gore to the globe, lift the next by gore out oozing out, and I don't want glue on my in perpendicular direction, I found this is creasing it, wipe off the excess glue that should use a hard, cylindrical tool with clean don't use anything rough or edgy as it'll to the other side of the gore, you may find because the glue has dried while you've carefully apply a more glue under the "air wipe off that excess glue. These wrinkles adhere, keep on applying pressure on these motion. 1st gore is done, 23 to go. During working, you will encounter excess glue dried the glue's still wet you can take it off completely, removing it will tear off the So you may be wondering why I leave the last a tiny bit wider for the last printed gore, the last top and bottom gore after stretching Stupid me overlap the last gore over the applied along this longitude from existence. including no big deal tho. gores, this took me 2 days. It's 5AM now, The equator doesn't look that clean, so globe to cover up the imperfection. caps, just like how the bellerby globemakers look. I made these caps in photoshop and printed video. The north pole looks perfect and clean So I cut off the excess paper, leaving a disk using the same technique to apply the gores. to do anything other than pasting the cap Slightly cleaning the surface and dusting layer of paint to the entire globe. to match the base. dried, you can see how much glossier it is Now the final step is to punch a hole in each Of course, you don't have to do this if or by placing the globe onto a base like they OUTRO: a bunch of discarded prints and glue, the (Montages of the final product.) parts on the globe don't line up perfectly The latitude lines near the pole are perfectly get a bit straight as you can see, definitely editing process. While most of the globe surface have folds and creases. But these are small professional globemaker but I'm very happy the texts are clear and sharp. Look at these So that's a wrap! Thank you for watching u can support my channel by clicking subscribe! craftings videos. Goodbye, n have a great