We're going to talk about the science of gratitude, and much. I'm going to talk about it from a different point can help you with better decision-making, help you to more, more peace of mind. I think peace of mind is high want to thank you because we're doing this live. I have forth. Let's get started. Welcome back, Kwik Brains. This is the Kwik Brain quick learning where we specialize in helping you to powerful tool, that not only is going to make you feel brain health and your overall performance. Let's get the studies that my team sent me for research for this. that you can do each day to kind of feel more of the appreciates it grows what you appreciate appreciates. change the molecular structure of your brain? Yes, it is you're grateful, but express gratitude. Your brain crucial neurotransmitters that are responsible for your your mood pretty much immediately. And remember, a lot control more of how you feel, and they make you feel should you practice gratitude to reap these benefits. things down, like three things that you're grateful for post this. You could share it on social media. You could preference because I write it in each day. And then, back and read for months or even years, all the things your level of optimism, and who doesn't need more of satisfaction quotient is going up. I don't know if up. It might very well be, but it's not just about want to make sure that all you brainiacs know that found that gratitude can improve your decision making quality of our decisions. You can increase your prefrontal cortex, which is responsible for things like here's something for anyone who's ever struggled with our podcast listeners practicing gratitude may help you psychological science. And by simply jotting things these grateful sentiments before you go to bed, it may thinking that often keeps us up at night. So gratitude but it also improves our overall self esteem. It reduces where we're constantly comparing ourselves to everybody chapter 21. And remember on social media, it's often say that tongue in cheek, but there's a lot of resentful or jealous over people who might appear to culprit in reducing your self esteem. I feel like that to appreciate other people's accomplishments, because it when people are succeeding, then we unconsciously are to be upset at us. And remember, you do not have to wait wait for greater life to feel grateful. You start And so you could start incorporating gratitude in things be as simple as keeping again a gratitude journal, which dedicated book or journal notebook that you keep with evening. It only takes maybe a few minutes to be able to And it can be as simple as keeping that gratitude somebody or something that made your day. And it makes your life. If you're going to do something like let's talk about some of the science behind gratitude. like a muscle. I always say that you use it or what you thoughts, those positive thoughts, the stronger, the good manners. It should be part of your life. It's a powerful brain and powerful mental health. You have too of books that you haven't read yet and become shelf reading course. 15 minutes a day, 21 days will .com forward slash reading. Use the code podcast 15 and there's so much wealth and information on the positive health. There's one that talks about dopamine release. expressing gratitude has been shown to release dopamine often associated with feelings of satisfaction, feelings your brain. Did you know that just doing these exercises hypothalamus. And we've talked about that in previous matter in your right inferior temporal gyrus. You don't it comes to your neurotransmitters expressing gratitude. gratitude actually impacts that part of your brain brain that's responsible for emotional experiences emotions. And the enhancement of something that we've self love empathy, remember self love is not selfish that reflection back and realizing that you've overcome the appreciation we've had Mel Robbins on the show and brushes her teeth is what gives herself a high five in takes a second to be able to do. But you're just five something somebody it's like this reward where it's on you can do it you believe in them and you're also person in the mirror that's been through so much but is practices can actually influence psychological those stressful anxious states some people suggest that depression. And this is not a short term thing little by you have to live in every moment grateful for what's regularly expressing gratitude it can potentially help of gratitude in the future. And right whether it's an contribute also because it you're harnessing that power spotlight on the things that you might be deleting or we're filtering information out if we let everything in what can I be grateful for today and you might say like somebody offers you $10 million and I know people are lot of money would be in your currency. And they're like but what if you didn't wake up the next morning would like wow waking up is worth $10 million I mean it's just do comparisons that actually serve you that can finding while it's not conclusive it indicates that brain. And there's a lot of mental health and certainly has actually noted that gratitude is linked to again area science called psycho neuro immunology that stress use more susceptible to colds of flu's the viruses. And pain when you when you reframe things in your mind associated with reduced risk of some health challenges to have a gratitude practice is just your overall research suggests that gratitude can make people not kind of makes sense. If you're grateful for the counter act in the challenges that the stress financial focusing on not what you don't have but what you can is also important for your self esteem which I mentioned can lead to significant changes in the brain. So these show notes always a Jim quick dot com forward slash to feel good but they give you the the backing of the being demonstrating that a simple practice like keeping reflection and I have a podcast coming up on this that she's a professor of psychology at Harvard University if where they took a group of men in a senior center and was 20 years earlier like the newspaper the television out of it they had better focus they had a better memory were stronger after just one week and so there's a lot mindfulness specifically in this podcast now since we love my acronyms they're short cut pneumonics that we do a training and for those of you taking our quick focus and your reading comprehension. It's different a is like a tip but when you go through a training like we confidence or productivity or student success then we skill. And we're thinking about actually doing one important it is but when I talk about acronyms I want The tea is time and I think what's most important here most important productivity tools that you have and if you don't schedule it's probably not going to happen meetings or your work or a zoom that you have to do but scheduling your speed reading training you're working what to feel grateful remember again you don't have time each morning start your day off right or in of time to reflect on what you're genuinely grateful for things you had in your life tomorrow where the things in your life the people the things in your life that you gratitude for today and why wait if you've ever had a conversation to have a lot of individuals like our has spoken out our events. He had an accident car grateful people I know he talks about you know how you know what you're going to leave behind. But these are starts with your mindset and your motivation and then three four five minutes of quiet contemplation or you highlighting you're highlighting the positive size I've been doing for decades were at night to called your episodic memory. Because a lot of people to that day but I will fast forward throughout my day at faster speed and I just kind of review it. And after I there's no such thing as a good or bad memory there's a allows you to do is it allows you not only to reflect on it also allows you to take some time and saying okay I'm this day of which I was grateful for. So that's what I positive moments and this could be somebody to held the somebody held the door open for you maybe it was just a enjoyed a positive meal very very simple but little things are the big things in our life now the A and other people because gratitude that's not expressed not just what who are you grateful make it a habit to expressing thanks to friends to family to colleagues to increases your own sense of gratitude and the receiver to feel like they're seen that they're heard that they that I talk a lot about nature but this think about foster greater levels of gratitude nature's beauty can outside can help you to be able to reset your you need kind of like a little pit stop maybe during familiar with our work you're going out and you're all that time you could also be thinking about the different point of view it gives you a different the K is kindness here's the thing we never know the just don't and everybody is facing a struggle that we listening is right now so how can you perform an act of really go hand in hand by giving to others we cultivate year it's Thanksgiving here in the United States where ever since being a teenager and by the way I think we could apply that spirit every single day. So kindness cultivate a sense of appreciation and connection and So sprinkle that stuff everywhere and then finally the S small things savering is like the act of stepping you can saver the the small joys and the small victories cup of tea or coffee a small experiences like a book that you have and again what you appreciate appreciates things everybody could do it doesn't take any time. It daily routines I think you and I we could cultivate a wellbeing but our brain health right when we feel hard to feel stressed when we feel grateful it's hard to challenge you to express gratitude today when we're done grateful for and share with someone what you appreciate rare is that or post a comment about what you're screenshot of this episode and post what you're grateful because you tag us our team will see it and we'll post copies of our brand new book limitless expanded which to charity this is my magnum opus this is the most final all about how to generate massive momentum for yourself. gratitude thank you for anyone who ordered this book who book and who reviewed this book review is the greatest stories will impact people like mine won't because it's funny how many videos go viral for whatever reason but viral right let's try to make gratitude go viral I'm not all be all of anything but I would say that we could all lot over time it's like that butterfly effect what's the butterfly flapping its wings in New York because the and we want to create a tsunami of change of kindness of here keep growing keep learning and always always always community. I'm your brain coach Jim quick I appreciate much more to come this is just the beginning limitless