For almost a century the US has been another. Over the decades friends have and America often seems to be right in deals and even boots on the ground, the significant player in the region but why The Middle East is a resource rich Northern Africa. Its strategic position on the world map means it often plays an of other countries, including the United owned oil well in Dhahran, eastern Saudi identified as the largest source of the cornerstone of the global economy and that meant a huge strategic importance. By 1945 the Americans had base on Middle Eastern is primarily interested in the Middle States is actually self-sufficient when from the Middle East. In 2022, the US was the world's leading oil producer generating over 30% more than the second largest, Saudi Arabia. It's a matter also of controlling other countries access to oil and that applies to Western countries of which the United States is competitor like China which also depends Beyond this liquid gold the Middle East is also a key market for American arms manufacturers. In 2023 the US made a $238 billion selling military equipment 40% of global arms sales that year. I think it's simplistic to reduce the United States alliances with countries in the Gulf for example to just money. With arm sales the US is also buying the largest cumulative recipient of US of this can now only be used to buy US These alliances are about strategic power. So to really influence this location the US needs friends. Allies of the United States in the Middle East have ebbed and flowed. Over the decades some allegiances are more formal than others. For example Turkey is a Nato member so in theory the US must Other allies have sprung out of power The Middle East was a major theatre of the Cold War in and the Soviet Union. Russia has intervened significantly in the Middle East in the 21st Century and maintains a military presence in conflict zones such as Syria. Russia acquired the reputation of a country upon which you can rely if you have any kind of despotic regime. Any withdrawal of the United States creates a vacuum that is filled by the other I come to Israel with a single message. America's commitment to Israel is unparalleled and has been since the state's creation in 1948. The US feels a sense of responsibility to do of course with the consequences World War II. In fact President Harry Truman was the first to recognise Israel as a legitimate Jewish state only 11 minutes after the new nation was proclaimed. The US feels that it has a right to protect the Jewish people who had been promised that they would have a homeland in the Middle East. American presidents have also between the US and Israel when relationship. But the union is not just The US has been a key player in the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians since the early '90s and despite the dramatic ups and downs any sponsored by the United States. But it's not just Israel and Saudi Arabia. Today the US also enjoys close ties with countries such as Qatar, Bahrain and Egypt. It might be difficult to imagine but in the mid 20th Century the US considered Iran to be one of its closest allies in the region. Aside from a CIA-orchestrated coup which ousted Iran's first democratically elected leader Mohammad Mossadeq in The role the United States played in overthrowing democratically elected governments to fight anything left-wing, left-wing nationalism, Soviet a huge impact on the future not only But since 1979 when Iran became an Islamic the two states have been fierce enemies. Iran has emerged as the major challenger of the United States and its hegemony in the region. However the picture is more complicated than that. The United States has played a role one stands out for experts as the most My fellow citizens, at this hour American stages of military operations to disarm the world from grave danger. If we look back at the history of US interventions in the Middle East I would pick the invasion of Iraq in 2003 that the US led with the UK as the most significant in Following the deadliest attack in American history in 2001 the United States declared a global war on terror. Our war on terror. And focused its sight on the Middle East. Begins with Al-Qaeda but it does not end President Bush claimed the military action in Iraq was to find so-called weapons of mass destruction, combat terrorist organisations like Al-Qaeda and free the Iraqi people from Saddam Hussein's authoritarian regime. However Al-Qaeda, the group behind the September 11 attacks had no affiliation Afghanistan. And it was never proven that The occupation of Iraq was a During the height of the quarter of a million US troops deployed One of the major consequences of the invasion of Iraq of 2003 is that it unleashed terrorist groups like Al-Qaeda not just in Iraq but Just three years after withdrawing coalition to combat the self-styled the instability following the US invasion. However in recent years there citizens to have boots on the ground in And that's why the United States has been means, a huge resort to drones, That being said the US still maintains a presence in many partner for some Gulf States in the face The Middle East is home to including the Persian Gulf, Red Sea and Following the outbreak of the Israel-Gaza war, Houthi fighters in Yemen took aim at ships traveling in the Red Sea. Africa, a much longer journey, increasing despite US interventions to prevent these The United States has installed itself as the world policeman. When it comes to its engagement in the Middle East it has a responsibility to maintain And it may be because of this Middle East without the US involved in comes down to one thing. Power. Let me tell you something. The United States of America is the most powerful nation on Earth. The whole global system since the 20th Century and especially after the Second World War was one in which the United States tried to secure a dominant position. It is impossible to imagine role for the United States. The United contribute to stability and security in