- [Mark] This is the and if you want it for yourself you'll need to first win a majority of the competition events And second, be a squirrel. Welcome to the third and final year of my all-consuming in my backyard. And bust out the popcorn, 'cause this year, not only of athleticism and a lot of close calls but also inter-species battles, home videos of Phat Gus as a baby and a scandal that rocks you're just gonna have So, hold onto your walnuts (soaring music) - Hello sports fans and welcome to the Backyard Summer Games where the greatest bushy tailed athletes in all the world compete in seven different events, the high jump and spinning balance beam, all for the glory and I'm Chuck Acorns. - And, I'm Jimmy. - Just going with Jimmy? - Yep, just Jimmy. - Alright, well that and it's a beautiful day The birds are singing and the in the air, which means it's time to head out to the action with our - [Mark] Now I know what you're thinking. This is different Mark, 'cause this is a squirrel competition whereas for the previous two years you've designed a squirrel obstacle course and then placed your So, if the squirrels want the bird seed, they basically have to And that's true, but much to the utter dismay they're still just eating all my bird seed with impunity because and there's nothing I can do to stop 'em. So, after two years I've given up. We know who wins when it's me versus them, but who would win if it's Like what would happen of events they have to compete against each other in? Like, say for example, this ski jump event where once they make it to the top they have to take the walnut bait and then escape before the and the trap door drops sending them down the Well, in that case, you could imagine there named Phat Gus who was a who just really appreciated of a fresh walnut. And, a squirrel like that would be at a distinct disadvantage here where the key really is because the longer you as many walnuts as you Oh boy. Well at some point you and then you find And this freeze frame is the perfect moment to introduce all four of our Backyard with a heavy favorite Phat Gus. And just like in years past, that's phat with the P-H as in phantastic. Now, in doing research on the I stumbled on some previously And with the little narrative liberty, I was able to piece together in a rougher area of the Even from the outside you and on the inside it was more of the same. Without money to buy new things, they were really good about repurposing whatever But, what they lacked they made up for in quality family time. That other squirrel, by the Augustine, and she's the second Now Phat Gus has always Even that signature its first theme echoes And then Augustine, for her but also very particular. Here you can see her spending her bed just right before sleeping for all of three seconds and And while they come they've been training to for the Walnut Cup since the because it represented a chance to move up to a nicer tree in the neighborhood. Speaking of which, for we have Rick and Marty who you know from the previous two years. But, what you might not in Walnut Estates in a nice But unlike Hubcap Hills Walnut Estates features a hickory piano and a fully stocked bookshelf. And so, as you might imagine, Rick and Marty's athletic also a step above. Not only that, but Walnut Estates is so This was a home protected where they could take their even eating. And what you should know they've always been fairly athletic, and they also scare pretty easy. But, despite their differences, what all four contenders have in common is they've been dreaming of this competition since they were old enough to sleep. So, it'll be fascinating to Back at the ski jump, after a recovery and of ship Phat Gus's teammate, Augustine, steps up for her attempt. And while she's in her nibbling, the The signal right here 'cause it's like one and the next second, there's not. But she recovers beautifully, because they're masters of physics as we covered extensively in my previous two Next was Marty, who is watching the other two from the and must have assumed it only fires if you walk directly onto the platform, 'cause he did this clever And while he is clearly he is good at scaring easily, which came in handy here, because before the floor barely even drops he's launched himself onto the roof. And finally, we have Rick and while that might be less it secures the first gold medal of the backyard summer games By the way, the Backyard Games because their app allows you through saving and investing Next up is the second event the balance beam, but with a twist. The goal here is for the all the way across before the beam starts to spin on them. Now, they've been preparing Here you see toddler, but eventually getting to the point where she was still wobbly but much more in control. Then, over at Walnut Estates, Rick and Marty would like the under bar crawl demonstrating the sharpest of concentration. But honestly, who could First up is Marty, who his nerves, pumps You'll come to see that Then immediately after making he just goes for it and to the end, almost. That's where his nerves 'cause he pees his pants, and then inexplicably tries to run all the way back to where things end for him predictably. Next up is Augustine, and at the first sign of a spin, she yeets herself practically In the slow-mo, you see into a parachute pose that makes it so a squirrel could survive Rick followed that and making such quick work of the beam it never even had a chance to spin. You could see the birds as they watched from the The bird stands are constructed such that they give the birds a without being bothered by the squirrels, because the wires are too unstable. But, that didn't stop them from trying, because of course they were going to try. They literally just try everything. That's like what they do. Finally, there was Phat Gus who had such a quick start it was on pace for the gold, but that's when things (plucky music) You've just gotta admire And the slow-mo here is also great, 'cause it really gives you a sense of what Phat Gus is actually thinking. Ugh. Alright, let's just get Dang it. Okay. Tail in the eye. Tail in the eye. Hold it, hold it. Ugh, just going back to And, the oh u-turn. Nevermind. Here we go. Back up. Oh, Mark does not pay me And while I wish gold medals the backyard games is all about results. So Walnut Estates is now up two to zero, which takes us to the third Now, the goal here is to off the cylinder to access And just like with the balance beam, they've been training for And here you can see the because while Rick was able to work with a near exact replica of the Quick Drop event, Phat Gus is over here dealing with the real wish.com situation, although still managing in the process. Augustine was up first but ended up getting so she couldn't settle on a strategy and left the platform platform Then Marty comes up and after another little both himself and the bird stands, he's a bit more bold, but And you can't blame him for being skittish because in the neighborhood in walnuts and more For example, there's small birds like this blue jay buzzing by, big birds like this hawk camping out. Then, of course, there's a few cats who seem to be just a bit too curious. But, by far the most fearsome predator of all this year is actually See if you can spot him. (intense music) Now you can see as soon as Rick locks eyes with this camouflaged beast, he becomes so filled with terror, he somehow decides his his body to the great unknown, because the most feared backyard He's a bit of a bully, (death metal) Fat Tail Fat Tail Fat Tail - [Mark] Fat tail is just Even with his own friends, he wreaks chaos and terror in the backyard. And unfortunately that's not Back to the games, you and perhaps the tennis ball to the big wooden sphere after all, because this effort looked pretty similar to Augustine's attempt which has left Rick who without too much effort. But, it's when he goes where he just really And that gold medal performance meant Walnut Estates was now - Well, this is a best of seven event. That means that the first And this may be turning - That's right, Chuck, Hubcap Hills really needs to step it up, because if Walnut Estates they're gonna be the winners - [Mark] Which is all to say they needed a huge showing at the long jump if they ever expected Now, rules here are You gotta jump from this platform and make it all the way to the sandpit. And the team with the most Rick is the first one up, and you can see he's really struggling to and to do the math in his But, eventually he and to put his trust, not (bird chirps) which was the wrong choice. Next up is Augustine. And knowing what's at stake here, she musters an uncharacteristic and just goes full send And so you could see Marty on deck while she's enjoying as Rick's like, &quot;Hey, I but are you cool if I join And she's like, &quot;Yeah, that's As she not only kicks him off, but double checks that he's really gone. And I should say with all the excitement there were other animals that in on the action too. Some who were bigger, and some who at least thought Here's a long jump attempt, but it's like, dude crow, you have wings. That's not impressive. Up next is Marty, who knows he needs to land this to So, for motivation, he calls upon an extremely rare And with a big leap and a bit Walnut Estates keeps the pressure on. And finally, there's Phat Gus who has to land this jump And while as Marty seeks motivation from the power flex, Phat Gus seeks motivation after which a hush - [Chuck] Here's the (air swooshes) (heart beats) - Wait, did she get it? - [Chuck] Yes, she did. - [Jimmy] Oh my gosh. She's incredible. - Bang the pots and bring that was truly incredible. Oh my. Have you ever seen anything No? Me neither. - [Mark] And so as Phat the sweet taste of victory with their first points on the board, Rick realizes his hopes for redemption through a tiebreaker around are dashed as he shows himself down which happens to be the Nutcracker. Now, for the Nutcracker, to the first contestant to somehow open then eat the actual nut And once again, prep work at a young age. At Walnut Estates, admittedly, there was some confusion but with a little bit of teamwork they eventually figured it out. Over at Hubcap Hills, you can see things were so it'll be interesting After heading over from the long jump, Rick comes in strong but then freezes up as he tries to remember And after seemingly drawing a blank, he just decides to go ask Marty. And that appears to do the trick, because upon returning, he scores a successful removal, but fumbles on the goal line, which is an out of bounds violation. Marty was up next, and having just coached Rick through this, he knows exactly what to do. Oh, Marty with the nice fumble recovery, but after finding the exact he takes the walnut out of bounds and decides to go off and bury it. And while this is a disappointing showing for Team Walnut Estates, because even as a baby squirrel, he was really good at hiding things. Here, he takes their and then cleverly buries it under the rug so there's no possible way Phat Gus is up next, and to the surprise of no one removes then shells the walnut in record time like a true professional. And then, finally, there's Augustine who takes a (shell crunches) but it still counts which gives Hubcap Hills keeping their dreams alive and Which, brings us to the in the Backyard Games, the Thunder Dome with two tubes that lead in And the rules here are pretty simple. Basically, the contender, who's in the dome, takes home the gold. Now at this point, it probably that both homes had quite a bit of wrestling in them growing up. And while Marty's favorite to the surfboard, Phat Gus's Go-to move was definitely the tail grab. So, it'll be interesting to see what strategies carry over to today. And so, after setting it the first on the scene was Phat Gus who was somewhat intrigued how to get inside. And after some amount of investigating, with only minor distractions the dome was breached. And Phat Gus was really enjoying That is, until a certain (death metal music) Fat Tail - [Mark] And, at first you sort of helpless as Fat Tail comes in and starts stealing all the walnuts. But, after he leaves, with a newfound resolve, so that when Fat Tail returns, the bullier becomes the bullied. And, he's kicked off the And after that moment, you could just tell there was a new-found confidence. This was Phat Gus's world, and we're all just living in it. I mean, not even the from this newfound bravado. And because all the what was going on, it's no surprise that to the Thunderdome, things which means Hubcap Hills at three to three, setting in the final event to settle who would be the Backyard Games champions. And so this was it. The morning of the final and you could, since the throughout the neighborhood. Everything would come So the competitors made their way over to the backyard running through in their heads preparing for what lay ahead (death metal music) - [Chuck] Oh my goodness. Fat Tail, come on. So disappointing. - What a shameful example Clearly just trying to get in their heads the - [Mark] Even the birds were in the best way birds know how. But, the mark of a true your mind, as you can as she then makes her And Augustine starts out with what is arguably less of a jump and Rick went a bit quicker, but then got slowed down on his exit, 'cause he discovered he could And he knows a handsome Phat Gus and Marty, on the this one with minimal effort, which meant it would all come down to the highest high jump setting. Rick went first, but things did not end well for him. Augustine used her meticulous and then deduce that the And while clever, it was a So, she was out too. That left Marty and Phat And after a final flex to Marty turned his attention and with the big effort he did it. He actually pulled it off, although he sort of So, that meant if Fat without using the side, that from Hubcap Hills the championship. - [Chuck] Here's Phat sizing up the bar. The jump is up. A bit of a pause. Still paused. Oh no, Phat Gus. - Wow. Well, okay, I guess that and that puts Walnut making them the official - [Mark] So, there you have it. I mean, you could see they're It was a hard fought and well-earned bat- - Wait a second, I'm Standby for just a, oh no, what I've just heard - [Mark] And that was the because of a bombshell revelation. And you could tell Marty by the way he banished himself from the backyard and into the bushes. The first clue was after and I mean I bear partial responsibility for not noticing this myself, but Marty was constantly flexing. It's almost like he had and couldn't help it. Was it possible that he was secretly eating non-regulation walnuts to make his muscles bigger and stronger? Well, if he was gonna do that he'd have to hide them somewhere. And for our second clue we know that ever since he was young his favorite spot for hiding So, while he was busy competing a raid was secretly being conducted at Walnut Estates by the authorities. And sure enough, a trap And after peeking inside, they found these a couple of bags of Russian walnuts. And I probably don't need to tell you why, but in the Backyard Games Russian walnuts are strictly prohibited. And so, suddenly it made the only one strong enough And you can imagine when the news leaked to the neighborhood, just how utterly shocked everyone was. - Wow. This is disappointing And I say that not just as a sportscaster, but as an American. Quite frankly, it's a disgrace to the - [Mark] But on the bright side, it meant an adjustment had to be made. - This means their high to Hubcap Hills and makes Hubcap Hills the champions of the backyard summer games. - [Mark] And with the you can see Phat Gus down to the trophy. And Augustine was so happy, she just couldn't contain herself. - Well, okay, a lot of (tone beeps) - So the only question how Marty would've even It's just, you can only get from the underground sewer network. Squirrels aren't even nocturnal. I mean, he'd have to go zoom in right there. Of course, Fat Tail was all along to cheat the system. Eventually, Phat Gus and Augustine took some endorsement deals, and they used the money their house to the Japanese with of course the addition as a playful flex to And speaking of their neighbors, they all eventually found it in their hearts to forgive Marty, 'cause that's just what good friends do, which is all to say in the end they all lived in harmony Well, except for Fat Tail. He did some hard time in the slammer, 'cause he's a jerk. (death metal music) Fat Tail. - Fun fact, squirrels only remember where they bury about 25% of their nuts. That means, if you see a big old oak tree, there's a decent chance it's Now, as a human, I look at it's not even that big. So, it's crazy to imagine that this with a little help into this. This makes squirrels because they leave three in the ground. And with enough time those acorns can turn into mighty oak trees that can provide way more acorns for generations And I got some great news, 'cause if you wanna start there's a very appropriately that makes it super easy. You can start by investing in a diversified portfolio Plus, you can open an and then add money automatically. And then let friends and family And the sooner as you start investing, the more chance your money So, download the Acorns Oh, and also, if you're you get access to exclusive, from my backyard squirrels. So, if you wanna check out more feats of squirrel awesomeness, download the Acorns app and Thanks for watching. (beat drops)