This is the Asia tree that I'm sure I'm Hattie Stroud. just opened. open ahead for Asian markets after a Traders are waiting and videos results escalation in the Ukraine war. phase in Kiev strike on Russia using US an updated nuclear doctrine. shareholder trust following a scrapped CEO. We misread the market and we it was a smart move, but definitely not the Take a look at how we're setting up for We have the Nikkei futures right now not This, of course, after we saw gains in What you're looking at, your left side the world's most powerful rock. flight test for the Starship. But at the moment you're seeing right assets. We could go sideways given that on the Take a look at how U.S. saw slight gains in a very volatile Of course, we just mentioned the ongoing We had tech, though, leading the gains, rattled over the Ukraine war. Japanese yen, Swiss franc, all climbing. being upheld throughout the session. also losing ground for a third But really, of course, it's all about up, Heidi. Nvidia's results could actually be the even more than the Fed's December Yeah, and it has been a lot for us to But, you know, going back to what we moment, which of course is looking at And we can also see some of the, I of this. We do see, of course, President elect We're watching as this proceeds with blasted off from south Texas. attended by the president elect, Donald And SpaceX said earlier scrapped those with the mechanical arms, instead as well. starship set to attempt an ocean That that'll be a real test of the heat capabilities of its machinery as well. was one of the most anticipated moments plans. maneuver during a previous flight. a controlled landing in the ocean there. at the viewing location with the SpaceX And we'll be watching to see how this Is this his first at a starship launch? Bloomberg's Bruce Einhorn joins us now. you, given that it must be some of that chopsticks maneuver? there was a lot of anticipation, last time when SpaceX was able to catch Just to keep in mind, though, just how Elon Musk did say afterwards that the into the tower at the time. better understanding why this time the caution and return the booster to water We don't know what the issue was been The launch itself the starship ignited relit one of its This is the first time they did that. test of the modified heat shield on the Last time when it returned, it appeared So there'll be a lot of interest in how time, I think. We're actually watching as I return your screen. really moment for Elon Musk, right? X, but also given his prominent role in Yes, of course. president elect during the campaign. involved in various things. President Zelinsky, for instance, has appointments to the cabinet, other And the two also just spending a lot of So they do seem to enjoy one another's Yes. splashdown in the ocean after that six And Bruce, I do wonder so much of I the potential for this technology is How close are they to being able to to the ultimate goal of being a lunar You're right. Let's be clear. it comes to reusability. partially reusable and they've launched so frequently it's just routine. Starship is just a whole never a whole Beyond that, much bigger. SpaceX X behind Elon Musk, said just within a few years to be able to launch In order to really do that, they need to reuse the booster and be able to have a And so that's one reason that they want and land on land, whether it's being touching ground. it this time, as you said earlier, it is into the ocean. cost for that and just how much of a It could just be that this is temporary. tests that don't go completely well, but So we shouldn't read too much into the to land this time. Accepting compromises was how one SpaceX But we have seen that starship splashing flight in that controlled crash there. with us. stories. new phase as Kiev launches its first range missiles. Putin has broadened guidelines when it nuclear weapons. the latest. saber rattling or what's going on? Heidi. how the US responded to this. after the markets had been quite jittery of it. intelligence these days on Russia. heavily, it seems. approved this. So it does feel like sabre rattling. it's nuclear weapons, because of the going to feel nervous when, you know, you know, start starts commenting on updating its program. of sort of saying, backed by a nuclear country would be most logical and, you know, combination So I think very much it's a it's a case nuclear is it's always its best option And is that sort of addressing the the idea of this much support from the head into next year. the US has been very slow with Ukraine. all of these positions and there's this or Russia will do that and Russia And the reason for that is that the President Vladimir Putin and the KGB people who live, you know, very, very And it's not something they're going to It's one thing to send the army in It's another thing to sort of stoke thing. world's future at stake or their own sort of highly unlikely. Biden has been around a long time. and that sort of thing. of of Russia's sort of status with I suspect President Trump and Elon Musk sort of updated doctrines. like Biden, I think it's it's fairly And we've seen Russia rattle its nuclear next level, Absolutely nothing has You know, I'm certain that's the case Well, President Biden, in fact, didn't Ukraine when he left the G20, a meeting disorganized. Yes. talk about and a lot going on. about how the how it all it all sort of sorry, in South America. could go off as easily as it might have. hold as well. sympathy for the hosts there in trying But the other thing, too, is that in a Biden, who's sort of a bit of a lame really waiting on Trump. sort of really in a holding pattern, I or any any movements there. Brazil was very keen to talk about that, you know, before Trump, they sort We're also hearing that, you know, after now hearing that President Putin is time since the start of the invasion. Washington's efforts to isolate Russia No, I mean, look, India is a special They've had a really long history with particular. when there was a very serious standoff And the Soviet Union sent warships in to And India has never forgotten that. But the other thing is that India is an I mean, this is a massive nation. prospects about it. themselves in with Western democracies. view, it's obviously really know, engaging with with Vladimir Putin doing in Ukraine. pretty knowledgeable about about all of But India gets cheap oil from Russia. Russia. interest to keep these these channels But yeah, it does say that the you know, going to have a bit of a legacy of unfortunately. We do have more ahead on the Asia trade. The market is look past a lot of the A lot of these geopolitical headlines argue offer up a pretty good entry point As of now, at least, the reaction from You're seeing a bit of a shift here, but notable here given the prospects for Geopolitics and politics is far more allocation than it is for tactical. politics of geopolitics is to feed the They're probably the biggest outstanding But from an underwriting perspective, that's not our base case. Markets are so focused on the Unless we see a more meaningful in energy prices. escalation of Russia's war in Ukraine Let's get some more analysis now with Spot is the founder and CEO of Zoom And we sort of keep coming back to part markets, even the energy markets kind of mostly remained sanguine to do escalations or create more of a risk by investors. And obviously this is a big story, and the geopolitical risks that go on And I don't mean to minimize them in the I don't. been focused on what's really sort of earnings is what's going on with fiscal relationships between different And that's what's going to have the companies. tensions are moving the markets the way are quite scary when you read them. it comes to tech. And we were just covering the Space X Musk and President elect Trump there. Musk has been sort of such a constant by Does this make a meaningful difference And also, you're obviously looking at too, Yeah, I think that's a lot of the minds right now. administration and a red sweep, it's it's probably rightly so. technology companies as well as a lot of But tech in particular with, you know, Like you mentioned, Elon Musk having a the table. House that's coming his way. technology companies. aggressive CapEx spending that's been a with no signs of slowing down. enthusiasm for big tech right now. earnings coming out tomorrow. CEO's words have been, quote unquote, I think that really drives earnings. stock. their chips. step in front of that freight train tech right now in video in particular. how much of a dampen there could administration be, especially when we're sector around these advanced chips? I do think you're bringing up kind of tech stocks in big tech stocks right One is valuations, which don't matter And and tariffs, which is a big, I industry. congressional elections have really Impact of higher tariffs. going to happen. player for the Trump Trump We fully expect it to happen. look at what are the what's the economic to ours, you know, we're taught that and that's going to cause some problems tech companies that can't get their What what has happened in the past is increase of trade with other companies. in the form of inflation that gets made up for with domestic production, other costs by other parts of the supply And so they kind of circle back, you tech and to in video, but we don't see as a as a problem in our thesis for bullish on companies like India because really surprisingly worked themselves And we do think that that that can So we continue to be constructive on What about beyond tech, though? higher inflation is that the Fed might have been expecting so far. I mean, we don't want to be dismissive connection to inflation. the past is that it hasn't really, at as big of a problem as we might have Where we do think that there's a real the debt and the deficit problem that we Deficits are by definition inflationary way right now. term, that is going to be creating That's a little bit of a problem. pressures being a problem for companies the Fed continuing to cut interest Corporate earnings look to be strong pro-growth backdrop for U.S. And so while we are cognizant of the of inflation, we've touched on as well, those are sort digested risks right now. fundamentals are going to drive stock year. with us. We have more ahead on the Asia trade. And Heidi, we're getting more details on his second administration now Trump 2.0, Trump now nominating celebrity Dr. Medicare and Medicaid Services. trillion in annual spending for federal Americans, a very unconventional pick, getting. Fitzgerald CEO Howard Lutnick to lead Of course, we had seen a very public position of treasury secretary. Who will lead that post? round, right. that's going to hold. comes to global economics and finance. more of a longer time. kind of viewing that one candidate is looking at. Board member well-known to Wall Street. terms of being a seasoned candidate to We saw treasuries rallying on the hope strategists watching the situation. number of Scott Besson's, Marc Rowan, as well, the apparently in the mix. This is Bloomberg. I take a look at how I shaping up, which this staggered start to trading. little bit on the back foot after gains kind of regional rebound starting to to one of the first markets to come Australia, off by about a quarter of a We have seen the Australian bonds day, the safe haven asset demand for After that escalation of Russia's war out. bonds there as well. looking like a pretty muted start to Singapore Nikkei futures looking a So much caution ahead of invidious So that sluggish start is perhaps not big tech earnings, the question mark well. most valuable company. just modestly positive, Bitcoin there Sheree. And Heidi, these are some of the other following at the moment. recycling operations in Europe as the production in Hungary. scouting for local raw material people. aim is for a closed loop in Hungary, Bloomberg has learned that the incoming fuel efficiency requirements for new to unwind Biden policies the president sources saying they are also targeting emissions. even after the automaker reported a That sounds investors weighed concerns and increased competition. million while revenue increased to Meanwhile, X funds rival NIO is Bloomberg Intelligence says sales were greater contribution from its mass For more, the landscape for electric managing director. Good to have you with us. what's happening with the market and really what can we expect from NIO Oh, NIO and XCOM recently launched two only launched them in September. increases in the month or in this expecting a really, really big fourth and I think that's going to be largely And I could see NIO also doing something I've heard very good things about that have already come out have given it well. not having a super strong quarter but You sound a bit more optimistic when it How much are you factoring in the challenges for these Chinese companies? But if we look at the US and the EU, called out and we're still seeing So I think short term we can expand and for a bit of that growth. markets. end of next year, I believe. more and more on the international they're still pretty much a China So. also the model that you can kind of take They don't sell cars in the US, but that the other Chinese names? BYD has so much scale. their batteries, they also sell to third And so it's a little bit of comparing But, you know, congratulations to They hit 10 million vehicles production And so 7 million of those vehicles were So I don't know if we can compare Xpeng space to a lady who just seems to be a And it's interesting, going back to pressures we've already seen from the worsened by further trade tensions it deals with the Chinese market access. this? quickest way for some of these economies accepting I think that's a terrific question. in the next four years, will probably The Trump administration has already increase requirements on the EPA. trying to fight that. country in and of itself, because most aren't going to build something States. in in the legal system, but it's going what the Biden administration has put And with Europe, the Chinese, they rely the China market that they seem to be a their priorities and their policies. though, is not just the fact that they but also that domestically they're Right. the same pie in the really surging themselves? And they're trying to keep up with all China. said. some weaker companies whittling away in And so that indicates to me that he through 2025. in more and more companies like Neda, market. you know, it creates opportunities, take more share over the next 18, 20 And I think building that foundation in more flexibility for the foreign We're also sort of trying to work out sort of two years before midterms, I going to look like in terms of the Right. President elect Trump wants to kill the estimates projecting that will kind of demand in the US following that. that he wants the Department of easier sort of regulations around So what's your kind of best case look like for self-driving for EVs in I think that you can look at the China The HCV sales in the China are going to year in 2024. that risk from the Trump administration, been and hybrids in the United States over the And so I think they're going to lean They're still going to dial that down, especially with the 70 likely getting taken away. unless Trump and Elan have a falling favorable towards Tesla. a managing director at Sino Auto Really great to have you with us. seeing this sort of treasury and that we saw overnight. bonds catching up as treasuries gain for That was really in large part fueled by After the escalation in Russia's war We saw that move in treasuries after within Russian territory with these President Putin there also approving But interestingly, the one thing that rally was one key participant, which was So it's quite interesting that perhaps overwhelming the US dollar, namely the for interest rates more broadly, and implications of a Trump two point or implications, as well as the have been promised as well. At the moment we're seeing the Aussie the Aussie as well as the loonie led More ahead on the Asia trade. Take a look at how commodities are We're following oil prices. And this, of course, after we saw that U.S. This is ahead of official figures, We're also following geopolitical The Energy Information Administration inventories, refining and fuel demand But iron ore also looking steady in We saw the dip down 2/10 of 1% earlier We had some gains for iron ore, signs of term. steady with copper also gaining 2/10 of All right. zinc smelter, Zinc, says he's working being forced to scrap a $1.8 billion Our chief North Asia correspondent in Beijing about the steps that he's being seen, Steve, as being critical for renewable energy. the most compelling part of this Well, the most compelling is the back Korea Zinc is the biggest zinc producer geopolitical rivalry. just a Korea boardroom battle here has. the grandson of one of the co-founders that are feuding right now. different than past ones? attempts, but this one has the backing equity. the largest shareholder, the the rival zinc chaebol teaming up with MBK for Korea zinc two months ago. trying to rebuff that Now, I began a very lengthy interview. headquarters in Seoul yesterday. has made leading up to where we are potentially from a critical AGM that and ownership Fate of Korea Zinc. in check. To one real mistake was the right Yeah, we misread the market. It was. a smart move, but definitely not the It was a tactical error on our part, not reaction of the market. the people who were our current price has dropped upon our announcement beneficiaries of the rights offering I mean, they were to be our future So, you know, we definitely cart before the horse, as they say. forthcoming that would, in your mind, that there is somebody who is better fit I would be happy to step down. It is not, you know, especially for the most enjoyable experience running this But it is it is a duty. I do not serve as the CEO of this this company. company because I'm the best person to And I have. years. that might be short, but it was a total And that is true not only for myself but And one really, truly needs to be. to. do. is in corporate Korea. see if this is a precursor for further attack, if you want to call it that, is So again, exclusive interview with Yoon A further conversation which we'll hear ramifications if there is a management private equity firm which could influences could essentially change the So in the next hour, we'll also hear and ramifications of such a scenario. that he will win this battle for control Think. Stephen Engle there in Seoul. conversation and the rest of that We have more ahead on the Asia trade. We have breaking news out of Japan. we're seeing that they actually grew October, avoiding a contraction after on year, also gaining 0.4% instead of a And we're seeing those numbers surprise And this, of course, has led to a trade And this is a little bit larger than Still, we continue to watch where those gain of one and a half percent to the still falling more than 6% for the month We'll continue to watch these numbers again, slowing down in Japan and that it came to Japan's GDP for the last But right now, we saw exports surprising for October. Let's get to Hong Kong now with the Jimmy Lai will take the stand today to charges and a case that's being closely Lay hasn't spoken publicly in nearly the China imposed laws. outside the West Kowloon Magistrate's And what are we expecting to see and Yeah. rainy day. yesterday as well. of this building, wrapping around the Heavy police presence here as well, with up as well. be part of the public gallery to watch And this is very highly anticipated time we're about to see him speak in was put into solitary confinement in The only two words we've heard him speak He's been charged with two counts of count of publishing seditious material. of Apple Daily, which is this to shut down in 2021. him and present his evidence for the And this case is expected to stretch What are we seeing in terms of sentences? under the radar of the international of media attention, a lot of comments The British prime minister on Monday had deteriorating how, with his presidency Brazil. Trump pledging to try to secure Jimmy The European Parliament calling for an Jimmy Lai. bow to international pressure. criticisms through the sentencing of the saying that these criticisms are And it's also saying and urging all internal affairs. around this trial that is drawing granted. handpicked by the chief executive. of his choice. was barred from representing him after of the national security law granting chief executive and a powerful national China correspondent Mimi Lowe there, And these are some of the other geo The U.N. stop enriching uranium to close to the IAEA monitors say Iran's engineers are output of 60% enriched fuel. month between the agency's director Bloomberg has learned that the Biden Edmundo Gonzalez as Venezuela's A senior administration official says partners about the decision at the G-20 The move is designed to increase won the July election without providing We have the market opens in Seoul and This is Bloomberg. This is the Asia trade we're counting Asia's major market opens with we continue to see the war in Ukraine ended with a final communique, though Yes, some sense of disarray right there. the sort of broader picture when it But Cheri, you mentioned that sort of a Very interesting that it didn't actually So it feels like perhaps these about inflation might be the stronger Yeah, we had Treasurys gaining boons, Swiss franc gaining. weren't really sustained. pretty steady at the moment and you can towards 155. see weakness in the Japanese currency, 2/10 of 1% at the open. have over exports gaining more than 3% That beat economists estimates. time in ten months in the previous month Take a look at how the cost base is We have been talking about the US dollar for three consecutive sessions, and also getting a little bit of a boost. gain ground against the US dollar and is the greenback since the summer of back 2/10 of 1% Heidi. sort of even if it was sort of not a But we did see the likes of the Aussie gains in the early part of the morning So some of these concerns clearly But take a look at how we're trading. session here in Sydney, off by about a Clearly, there's quite a bit of market big earnings report in particular. in just a moment. permeating broader markets. just about 1%, one of the laggards here Industrials also softer as well as about 8/10 of a percent. Aussie dollar holding at 6542 at this And as we mentioned, that move in asset demand story after Ukraine hit the first time. escalation. rattling in terms of the updated nuclear A quick word as we end on the look, the We're seeing these expectations that the is call to continue fracking. maintaining pretty steady levels at the The most recent industry report showing ahead of some official data from the But when it comes to these markets, it most valuable company. Nvidia's earnings are, of course, coming And it shows we're looking at options the biggest catalyst left this year, And of course, this will give us really artificial intelligence is going. And our next guest sees growing risks across Asia. equities portfolio manager at Robeco. So what's a problem right now when it Asia? I think at this point in the market is Remember, that is all about earnings companies can deliver. gone through two amazing years of It is very exciting. And we believe that Asian supply chain But having said that, expectations are So increasingly, the market are getting end up in the money. earnings and backed by more CapEx. downstream companies. much expectations at this moment. trade is becoming probably a little bit Yeah, price to perfection, you could a Trump 2.0 era. I think in technology sector, we are of technology by time for China. somewhere is in the shadow, but still But obviously if that becomes a reality, put pressure on this part of the market. if we look around, we barely see any right now for for these stocks. negative development could put further So I think is very exciting. in. interesting. opportunities when it comes to China? failure to be able to sustain the post Right. feed into a more longer term virtuous That's an excellent question. right now, for us, the focus is very those companies that can deliver earnings against low expectations. expectations because I think is it we're shoot straight up for the moon at this So it's there are structural issues, needs to be addressed. improvement on outlook definitely still outlook is not going to improve itself So from that perspective, only planning chasing after what has be reflected in So from our perspective, we really look In China, where expectations are quite low. Stocks in China actually are still investors like us. we do expect more policy actions coming But timing those would be very difficult in the meantime. fundamentals and focus on finding those Yeah, and I see sort of some of them infrastructure in India. COP 29 is wrapping up at the moment. when it comes to national climate goals, companies that you think regardless of sort of that transition is already you still see opportunities in in the solar space. about these days with with the Trump But I do still believe that for many of sustainability is still top of their So for a lot of companies, we're still And while people haven't really been reduce the supply in the solar sector. be effective. direction and what they want the market for the solar supply chain in China. very good performance of the great well, actually globally. fundamental development and fundamental attention to the US presidential sustainability remains. can really add alpha to investors So technology companies. grow their earnings with with their really being impacted by, let's say, per se. Japan? only because of the Japanese yen fundamentals starting to change right We're expecting Tokyo Gas to start Elliott has actually reported a major So you have more activist investors Absolutely. pickers to find those very good valued. angle, a lot of Japanese companies have long term themes to that are cleaning pivots for the water world. exposures in Japan. And on the other side, in terms of remains to be very, very alive across even for the Chinese, as there is, we're improving shareholder returns remains to So there's a self-help story across Asia important for investors to notice and to after all, after we talk about macro all earnings and improving returns. very actively seeking and continuing to portfolios. Asian Equities Portfolio Manager and We have more ahead on the Asia trade. The market is look past a lot of the A lot of these geopolitical headlines argue offer up a pretty good entry point As of now, at least, the reaction from You're seeing a bit of a shift here, but notable here given the prospects for Geopolitics and politics is far more allocation than it is for tactical. politics of geopolitics is to fade the They're probably the biggest outstanding But from an underwriting perspective, that's not our base case. Markets are so focused on the Unless we see a more meaningful in energy prices. escalation of Russia's war in Ukraine, Well, the war has entered a new phase as Russian soil using US long range At the same time, President Vladimir Russia's potential use of nuclear IBEX Michael Hayes joins us now for the So we talked a little bit about, you unexpected saber rattling. there. here, What does that look like? Ukraine, I mean, the US has been very I mean, remember, it's in response to Korea agreeing that 10,000 North Korean fight in Ukraine because Russia's burned know, with its very, very poor, tactical So, you know, it's not like the Ukraine this. some comedians have said, you know, they to try to confuse everyone as much as But the underlying factor is that this I'm sorry, Ukraine doing that. up its sleeve in terms of dealing with with everyone else. I mean, it's a hugely heavily armed, you But by the same token, the people who KGB coterie, I mean, you know, just if we want to official sit down at the end of a huge catching a, you know, a bug, let alone, So you have to be you have to treat skepticism. back at people is quite right, that they come and go. wasn't unexpected. with that and that's how it's gone for It's interesting watching the level of You're right. about it, having that stronger language The communique then was suddenly, you Without that mention. Presidents. I mean, does that kind of indicate the way forward? I mean, look They struggle with this communique. you know, on Brazil's part, it's to be able to, you know, to be able to and support and that sort of thing. pretty well. where this is started, whatever whatever statement or whatever, you know, Russia But we do see that with President Biden. he doesn't want to be talking about us I mean, you know, if you think about it though realistically it's not. there's nothing there's no advantage to I mean, he's a lot of the support other countries. And he wants to be a, you know, a But, yes, the the general the German there's not a lot of point in committing you know, an agent of change in Donald And, you know, he's talking about ending Do we And obviously Ukraine and Russia That's why we have sort of entered this they're both they can see on the horizon and it's trying to gain or have leverage escalating as well. latest on those geopolitical stories. because the U.N. stop enriching uranium to close to the IAEA monitors say Iran's engineers are output of 60% and fuel. month between the agency's director Bloomberg has learned that the Biden Gonzalez as Venezuela's president elect. Secretary of State Antony Blinken told summit. pressure on Nicolas Maduro, who says he proof. Trump administration is looking to slash cars and light trucks as part of plans The president elect has blasted as an EV Sources say they're also targeting emissions. the contours of the Trump 2.0 those medical appointments. Oz to lead the Centers for Medicare and Now, this is an agency that manages $1.7 programs, insuring more than a third of And a lot of people, of course, are unconventional pick when it comes to Trump is tapping Cantor Fitzgerald CEO Department. prominent Wall Street backers. public battle to head the Treasury But we know at this point, there is be coming. Yeah, and I suppose it removes one name, of other names in the hard right. this kind of treasury size hole in this And is reassuring because we know that this in the world when it comes to handling economic and financial challenges atop And the market sort of consensus seems a former Federal Reserve Board member He's really kind of the Street's peak in qualified and has won that backing in So that new candidate see possibility have been contending with and that could the Treasury luck rally that we saw there as well. the next day or two, according to people But there are still other names at play, Scott Bessant, Marc Rowan, the Tennessee contention, but are watching one stock session. than 8% at one point, really jumping And this is really all news from a local company has been established by the And they're working on a plan to conduct And they want to complete this deal by Of course, we'll be we've been watching course, alimentation. company. developments around this company, but we This is Bloomberg. The former Hong Kong media mogul Jimmy defend himself against national security in Beijing and the West. four years after being detained under China correspondent Ben Knight joins us Magistrate's Court where all of this What are we watching for? here. there, you can see there's a long line building, all with their umbrella. crowds. slowly stream into the court building. because, as you said, it's the first himself. was put into solitary confinement in August of 2020, but he was denied bail. counts of colluding with foreign forces material. founder of Apple Daily, a pro-democracy He is accused of advocating for Kong and China and also using a protest against that 2019 proposed This hearing, the trial could go on for It could even extend into next year. so far? of that mass sentencing yesterday of the already drawn condemnation from the and Australia. raising the issue of Jimmy Lyons sitting being at the sidelines of a G20 And you have the European Parliament as immediate release of Jimmy Lai. questions around how fair the trial is, trial. hand-picked by the judiciary. his choice because a top British lawyer, representing him. said that there is no question of They have also denied that Lai is being chosen to be in an isolated cell. joining us from Hong Kong. in today's trading. than 15% at one point. management has reported a major stake in Gas now holding more than 5% of the proposals to the company. more activist investors take an interest This is Elliott's fourth investment in first time since 2019 that it's acquired Tokyo Gas gaining more than 11%. Take a look at how Korean assets are We're seeing Korean, that one gaining session. greenback right now. happening, although the tech heavy comes to Cosby. leading those gains. And you can see Korea's zinc right there consecutive session. smelter. that he's working hard to regain scrap a $1.8 billion share sale last Our chief North Asia correspondent you may be chair about the steps he's crucial for limiting China's dominance Steve joins us now from Seoul. Yeah. more than 2 hours, we touched on boardroom takeover battle, this a call it that, of Korea. large part of that interview. capturing the attention of the entire because, you know, look, hostile However, ones that are involving global are new and could potentially shake up much, of course, independence their It could really shave, shake things from It's been going on now for a couple of existing chairman right now, Unity is He had a bit of a misstep. offer to try and build up capital to largest shareholder really within Korea young POONG group as well as MBK Now unit has signed up with Bain Capital But again, it's could culminate in an investors will be able to vote on which But it is hot and heavy right now. corporate governance and he will continue to go ahead with his troika areas, including the materials that go That was a big part of our discussion as Trump administration and what potential House and whether he will continue with other areas where foreign companies like Here is the my second bit of my CEO of Korea Zinc. I think it's obviously unclear Change EIA, for example, or strengthen of concern? can be sure of, which is he will be importing goods that are produced by China in one way or the other, and that. have tried to do with our nickel So we studied the nickel market for a Nickel market is a much smaller market led market, but it is a much more In the context of, environment or Europe can, if they are going out to produced by non-Chinese Chinese Party, list and we're going to be on the top of Where do you stand right now as far as from Korea Zinc about MBK and what some its capital base and whether it is tied They have denied it. denied because the concern I guess with they have basically named, you know, precursor process for zinc. Because that would, I would assume, to being bought by the Chinese. technologies that just have been technology and I should say, There are hundreds and hundreds of that are integral to run the business as And I think some of the important ones core technology certification in a near, But I think I mean, that's a good I mean, whether or not this helps us or I don't think it does either. the technologies that Korean government security reasons, that one that can sale to a foreign entity. technologies can be leaked out to allow Well, how much of a national security actually be? of China with about 12% of the market. component to cleaning silicon wafers for Antimony is another element, and that days, really controlled. China. They've banned the export band recently, Yeah. the hands of the Chinese? Martians. purpose of our conversations, but I somebody else who did not share their To be to run the company as we do. And of course, he is the CEO of Korea He'll be the outgoing board chairman. independent foreign board of chairman to corporate governance, something that It's something as well that the the the as well as MBK, have been calling for But it's a bigger issue, of course, as essentially transparency in these The unit is a third generation CEO of It was founded, co-founded by his headquarters here in Seoul. Our chief North Asia correspondent, And let's take a look at some of the Japan now. annual loss may exceed a previous $9.7 disposal of unprofitable foreign bonds. around $64 billion worth of US and EU It's trying to stem losses from runway ELLIOTT Management has reported a major of activist investors trying to unlock The fund now holds more than 5% of the It is Elliott's fourth investment in a time since 2019 it has acquired a level And Heidi, you can see Tokyo Gas right record high. Sony group is exploring a takeover of expanding its content portfolio. Bloomberg, this will also tighten. role playing game, Elden Ring, you can And I also add a record high. NHK that the founding family of 79 is company private by the end of this year. company. entire firm, and they're looking to That's about $52 billion. when alimentation couche-tard is also We have more ahead on the asia trade. Well, SpaceX says its starship has major test launch. the booster with the mechanical arms. controlled landing in the ocean. into the Earth's atmosphere. the launch alongside SpaceX CEO Elon Staying with the business of SpaceX and targeting early next year for the first heavy lift rocket. the growth outlook with the CEO, exclusively in the Sydney studio. I can't believe it's been almost ten I want to talk a little bit about the of coming up. Why are you here? a lot for Australia. fall Australia since 1987 for Optus. tests, two for the NBN project and we is called Up to seven. Yeah, and there has been a lot of got the final approval for Gilt Gilmore. progress as well. something that Arianespace would use Almost a company in Group II and group is delivering critical elements to the So we know very well very well. him and we will see. which should have happened by the end of Regarding the spaceport, you have some your Austrian space bodies with a But for Alien, Alejandro Spaceport is Amazonia. not project to use with Korea as a space So the second launch for second mission by the end of this year. quarter. guess, challenges and why you see this So we have made the successful launch of big success as the launch was very, very And it has allowed us to prepare for a Now we are in the preparation of the This is a date for the second launch. go to the soonest possible would be the end of March. And we are just now preparing the second Know, we have had a limited period of the second launch. The whole kit is now being transported We are fixing all the details of the And so we should be ready, let's say, in What are the biggest challenges in you see ahead for the rest of the year? as a work to fix all that are linked to We are also preparing the launch pad. And this is why we have now with this preparing without all the customer, the super exciting year because we will We are going to deliver Cooper service, We will have it. for Europe and institutional agencies. end of March. launches with our customers and among project. proposition of your services, how So Alliance six is a competitive market. market, we have in all the books healthy missions are also commercial market. in 2022 for 18 dedicated and six. Intercontinental Hotel, the European Australian about who has been one of the So this is why we are competitive. obviously from the Space X launch this necessarily comment on a different on that gap that's widening between U.S. like yours have been able to do. closed? drag on on being able to move more No, I think it's important to understand You know, Space X is manufacturing. satellite. constellation. It's what we called vertical integration So we do not manufacture satellite, we So this is a first difference. you see a starship, we do not need in do not want to transport men to moon or It's not our primary goal. What is important for us is to make speaking the on radio success. Indigenous standpoint on the launchpad. We would make on average ten launches and not to miss. know, I don't think it makes sense. They are doing great things and But what is important for us is to be How much engagement have you had from Has that been helpful? the European side or here in Australia You know, the Australian Government has as a GP 912 TOS have announced last week program and they have said something They have said we want to go for It means that falls out so very needs. orbit and get to orbit. perfectly competitive for these three, governments, we can fulfil them. Australia to precisely what they want to So GP nine 1 to 2 on and we we are here. Great to have you here again and best of Second mission for the on six seven. joining us exclusively here in Sydney. some of those past conversations in our You can dive into any of the securities become part of the conversation as well. shows. to check it out. Go. Take a look at some of the Haven assets Of course, we have seen that sort of it comes to treasuries, less so when it benefiting the likes of the yen and the these increasing geopolitical President Biden approving anti-personnel Ukraine. in The Washington Post. markets continuing to react to the first Ukraine after the approval from the We're now hearing that President Biden anti-personnel mine landmines, I should officials and reporting in The incremental steps to try and bolster Russian troops, but has drawn, of control groups as well. gains being held in gold, for example, the US dollar. And we turn to a big report from Our team is seeing opportunities in Pacific. cutting rates. for more on today's deep dive report. when it comes to capital flows for real that you're seeing right now? We have the deep dive for puppies today, trend change quite a bit expensive for In the past we have lost capital in full changes, especially we see the more info going into China. overseas there are more calls to us So that's why we also observe the for some of them, like market, like Kong and Singapore is also going to be a We see it in the interim also getting or two or five. new easing measures in September. the outlook in 2025? know, it hasn't made a meaningful drawing down supply. Yes, we see the situation for allow is The challenge for Lao is that the crisis Even we have the U.S. part of market recovery. see the structural uses still remain and so you list still there for those that we also have lost our partner has and that's also a factor of course buyers because they already acquired the are ready for delivery at the time, so mortgage. mainland China and then affecting the buyers. the overall recovery we are on for a couple of years in mainland China, Also in Hong Kong, home prices hitting When can we expect prices to recover? quite tricky because we offset the 40% So it's already quite a lot. two into a two or two or five is that we little bit further. You also went up a lot in Hong Kong for So for the residential market, we see for the whole for mass most or even the The market is also turning around in coming into Hong Kong. down further. happening to a Hong Kong housing market bit challenging. Hong Kong. still at record high. Bloomberg Intelligence real estate Take a look at how we're setting up when head into the start of trading across A bit of a mixed picture there. reluctance of another bounce for China's see that reprise of what we saw in the Taiex, which is looking pretty positive out of Nvidia.