This video is brought to you by GamerSupps, use We're back on that Lego platinum grind and I think me into these games to begin with. That's right, Now as I've said in previous LEGO videos, I love to satisfy the child within who never really my collection is pretty much just all Lego I love the pairing between them and Lego and yeah Lego Star Wars: The Video Game for the first time. whatever reason, I never played Lego Star Wars 3: the film and the series this game is based on. play some Star Wars games for May (I know I'm a this year. Can I platinum all 3 Lego Star Wars sorry Complete Saga) before the end of May? This can completely cross out a category of Lego if I'm going to start from anywhere it's going As always if you do end up enjoying the content more platinum's you'd like to see me tackle next, and go over to twitch.tv/mayorhairbear if you Now this is my fourth Lego platinum journey thing nailed down... until I saw the guide over on Wars ranks at 5/10 in terms of difficulty, roughly 30 hours to complete... oh and apparently me this is red flags all over, as Lego games are no missables trophies type of affairs. But as had no clue what I was getting into and... yeah don't add up. There's nothing missable, there's standard Lego platinum experience, with some guide and brief panic aside we dusted off the PS3 Step one as always, was simply to beat the story for completing the story that begins with the The Clone Wars film and episodes from the first 2 Ventriss and General Grievous we're guaranteed levels which I'll get to shortly. As always this and enjoy the missions. If you want to try and it is possible but much easier later down the we did unlock a few more trophies for doing a proton torpedo, completed a story level without mowed down 100 droids with the Clone Chain-gun So make that 23 trophies done and dusted playthrough and made our way over to step 2 You see for step two I typically jump straight for the remaining collectibles which are pretty is obtain the 10 mini kits and reach True Jedi Back to basics which I really like. However, doing that. I then immediately got sidetracked the ground battles. Ground battles remind me of need to go around a map capturing command points, buildings. These surprised the hell out of me in but there is actually a specific mode in the game Republic and Separatist Assault where we need to then the other for two trophies. So, that's the Republic side as you only need to capture 8 hijacking 20 enemy units but I quickly realised be able to complete this mode just yet. But trust bonus level instead which is unlocked simply for map. Then it was time to leave the comfort of the landing on the Invisible Hand for the first time so I could defeat Anakin. Now in the inbetween Assault I was making sure to use those hard earned especially on the Invisible Hand as we were we needed those 18 Red Bricks in particular invincibility and super speeder which I'll get work and exploring the Invisible hand we managed a miscellaneous trophy in Hostage Crisis for With the bonus levels finally complete, that meant Crisis unlocked some more side content with the another trophy. So, straight into it I went and find certain targets, you're thrown into a level out. Some of these are tough and in the beginning these are cool little speedrun like missions that our Bounty's taken care of and our new dark side some more villains from lock up on the Resolute, After that we went back to the ground assaults completing the bonus levels and freeing those over the galaxy as both the Republic and go about this is to complete the Republic side to snag the trophy and at this point I just even managing to finally get Yoda to take On the Republic side, 8 planets that's fine... and after that back as the republic we gotta make sure we don't miss any of the Gold Bricks. Gold Bricks are just for completing... well all true jedi's and each ground assault on both play through all 16 planets twice for ground just feels so tedious to the point that without for hours! It's a great mode that I really enjoyed change enough from mission to mission. At least managed to use the Radio ability 50 times, which to have a squad follow you 50 times which should I needed some quick and easy trophies to soothe loading into the Arcade battles and with the quick and easy win. Do that three times and boom. each trick in a ship and there goes another one. collected the final Red Brick and with all those that were missing a True Jedi check, loaded them off the list and it was from this point I to find all 220 minikit pieces. I did have some like using the force on a Super Battle Droid to in certain missions these fools do not lock on destroyed 50 gold items. But free play is always a secrets are hidden around, how they've hidden are seriously awesome. But after 4 or 5 hours we finally found all 220 minikits and the end was best minikit rewards to boot because each level is I love that most are the classic old school lego we unlocked all the clone characters, bought Lando right on back and land for a quick trophy and now 100% status and platinum trophy. It's time to 130 to acquire and as I said they're basically point I was still missing 16 of them, so what was missions which saw us travel to each planet space between the two Cruisers and gather studs of cake but you need to know which ship to take straight back. But again, most can be done in less an egg. But with our final mission in space all 130 we made the final ship to notch us up to So, after 24 hours in total; 6 hours better than this point. What'd I think of Lego Star Wars 3: Let me talk about the game real quick because as I'm so glad I finally played this game. It adds focusing on just the movies for once, the and there's so much content here that just feels platinum is pretty good as well but what really in those ground assault missions. Again, the spin especially level wise in the story that 32 times just with a different coat of paint, some finicky space controls I had a lot of fun Lego entry in The Clone Wars especially now that, game but taking us through the highlights of all go so make sure to stay tuned for the next one. well enough but its existence definitely confused off of one movie. LEGO Star Wars: The Force well enough back at release, being swept up in Star Wars films but it didn't leave a lasting and moving on shortly after so I was interested to play today and of course, how that platinum Now at this point, this being my fifth Lego but for those of you who don't. According to terms of difficulty, takes two playthroughs and for the series but again, as I said I did play from scratch with this game. Already having 22 beating the levels in story mode and some other start and because I got lucky with a preowned 4 of the DLC's in the game as well taking us I hadn't played the game in almost 8 years so, I see where it put me, which was straight into one Awakens there are 10 base game levels, a prologue flesh out the events in between parts of the film. it was as good a place as any to reacquaint myself Rescue, Lor San Tekka's Return and Rathtar up some studs. This was the wildest thing about LEGO games before vs now because I had bugger all buy all the characters and red bricks. Thankfully studs fast and that is by playing the "level" on has us control several monsters and take out waves buy the stud multiplier red bricks and I quickly the end of the game. Now my next step wasn't to go mainly because I didn't have enough gold bricks unlocked for completing levels, getting true world for completing side missions or just in the all the minikits in the main 12 missions. From gave us some more gold bricks and a couple of and by pure accident as Kylo Ren, Force Freezing soon but with enough gold bricks behind us it was first The Crimson Corsair, then Trouble Over Taul all the story complete... in the main game at Rathtar hunting to snag the only remaining True with all the stud multipliers happens in seconds. but for whatever reason instead of tidying up mix it up and start completing the 4 explorable Base. This is where a bulk of the Gold Bricks are rebel and first order missions, scavenger a lot to do and see in The Force Awakens and for another day, the planet completion aspect is took me less than two hours to complete Takodana character in the process and a big part of that the same planet or immediately teleport you rant for another day but Skywalker Saga butchered most of the levels done and dusted it was time to in the next 2 and a half hours we jumped from 33 in such a short time? Well it was mainly thanks There's 4 DLC levels with 5 trophies apiece. 1 for collecting all minikits and the other two are some of these levels aren't that interesting to or Escape from Starkiller Base I got 4 out just needing the minikits to clean up in free trophies we got through the story mode, just the but in free play we went off. Killing all swarmers switching characters doing some miscellaneous as Vader, having Kylo and Han Solo in the same grabbing the final minikit for the level. Poe's with a bugged trophy as I got through all the do was avoid all the speeder traps in the first times before I found a solution that worked which Before we leave the DLC though I do just want to didn't have to pay for the DLC thanks to someone liked these new levels. We get to see unique Takodana or the rebels trying to escape Starkiller going on before and in between events like with makes for some fun levels. They are really short to not only play through the story but also as yours truly make sure these are on sale as I Anyway with the DLC done and dusted it was time to I decided to knock out the remaining miscellaneous classic Han Solo and Chewie on the Millenium completing a free play level as Chewie and Maz checkpoint in a level and save quitting back to the Starkiller shield room which I'd heard can dispenser to put a stormtrooper helmet on a small the remaining levels in free play, snagging our minikits in the game and then it was onto Jakku These are much bigger planets than Takodana to get through both but again, these are good finding gold bricks, characters, completing side the final planet is when we started getting some Hunts, all scavenger missions, all races, missions. All that was standing in our way for Starkiller Destruction which is a fun little just needed to head to D'Qar to unfreeze was mine... after a good scare because why not. let me down on this one but hey only 3 hours I think of LEGO Star Wars: The Force Awakens was a game I wasn't expecting much from. I didn't to mean it probably wasn't very good but I was It still confuses me why just this movie got really well. The levels are good fun, the new great effect and the DLC was a blast as well. In one really bothered me. I mean I could have done the end. But outside of that this was such a these Lego platinum's. Yes some of the content I think mixing the free play in with the planet fresh. It was a great time from start to finish the platinum which is always a good sign. I can you should change that. It's a shame we never got games made for a way better experience here than 1 more to go so make sure to stay tuned for by far But in the back of my mind I knew what was to chill platinum's to go and grab. They don't take not a wee bit repetitive. The Skywalker Saga how do we torture those pesky completionists? I fill it with 1000's of collectibles that'll take this isn't a beat around the bush type of intro. The Skywalker Saga and I seriously But for those unaware, what is the platinum according to PSNProfiles, The Skywalker Saga ranks two playthroughs and should take a whopping 100 this time round. The Skywalker Saga, true to its through the events of all 9 main movies with the you venture across the galaxy with 24 explorable 45 levels to complete, twice at a minimum, 380 characters and 123 ships to unlock, 19 data over 1100 Kyber Bricks or Gold Bricks to find and game but you don't need every single one to get yippee. This was the biggest grind I've attempted 2022 and right now it's not even close so sit grind that we started back in November last year. way through the story and enjoy. Again there's 45 me roughly 14 hours to get through unlocking But of course that wasn't all we unlocked for earning 17,000 studs (random number but okay) don't worry we'll get to these shortly, got a a single level, defeated 3 enemies with a single completed a flight level without dying like the really make me question my own intelligence story and collected 17 trophies to boot and The Skywalker Saga from a casual perspective, is Star Wars universe and I'm never going to be playing through the prequels and original movies a blast to get through and was something that did It's just how I visualise The Complete Saga being no real interest in watching again, The Force from there, they still made playing through those will be very critical of the game later on from be known that I can easily recommend playing perspective of playing through the story because of these iconic moments in Star Wars LEGO-ified. Step Two which is a bit different to usual. We goal to obtain the trophy "Only one business in right, it's back. To do this in the most effective Target in A New Hope or A Skip and a Jump in The for farming studs. They're both flying missions quickly. The cycle is basically, do the mission of the stud multipliers which are not cheap here grab the massive x3840 stud multiplier we need to did most of this grinding off stream, accidentally all the minikits in a level and destroying 100 TIE I figured we'd jump into Step 3 considering naturally to get to 10 Billion so into Free Now Free Play changes the most from game to some just have the one. Here in The Skywalker 1 for completing the level, a total of 3 for enough studs in the level, 1 for completing the 3 minikits in a level. It sounds like a lot more minikits and True Jedi is a staple. However experience are the level challenges and these do level has 3 challenges to complete and in your run done per level by complete accident, maybe even The challenges themselves for the most part aren't depending on if they're tied to specific moments if you mess it up you gotta restart and try everything in this game, with enough time and later to be exact. Just before the 30 hour mark we creating 25 disguises as a Hero character, all the level challenges, collected all minikits obtained our 10 Billionth Stud and after 28 hours to move onto Step Four... the grindiest step of all. 24 explorable planets I talked about, yeah it's exactly? Well each planet has varying numbers of complete, 1100 Kyber Bricks which to put it in 100% you end up with 270 of those 1100 Kyber will unlock the ability to buy all the characters by completing the quests and 10 galaxy challenges planet like the wandering wookie or completing lot of stuff to do and... this is where I just need The galaxy cleanup while having some fun moments collecting is just pure and simple brain rot. the planet. That's right, planets like Tatooine, which would be awesome, if they didn't also to collect. Not to mention, most of them are the plain sight, some need you to stand on different climb up really high. Very few feel planet them at all or that some aren't a good time to try much. That's not even to mention the bigger pain brain rot I can go into zombie mode and just power fact is we've all played games with more or less Bricks just due to volume alone. However, that's No, what I cannot stand about this grind is more it twisted, the side missions are usually the a good goof, some of the boss battles are really and maybe 70, eliminating the repetition of some find this person I'd have no real complaints... collectibles too, they don't just involve the trekking across the galaxy to complete or aren't a specific Kyber Brick or completed another quest forth that is so infuriating and genuinely feels amount of samey things to do in it. I just don't you haven't completed something on Naboo yet... yeah then move on. I don't want to go back and forth old adage that more isn't always better, quality seem to comprehend. This game could've had half for it and I'd be here glowing about how I want need to always add the caveat, oh I'd love it if Saga... just with less meaningless crap in it. we began the galaxy grind going after Kamino as a character class in the process, then moved onto I put this game down. I was roughly 35 hours deep else... apparently a lot else because it took me sack up and decide to go back and finish what I it was tedious crap that was boring me to tears other reason than to know I don't have to look at while after this. Mainly LEGO, maybe Star Wars can the GNK escort quests and I wish I recorded the quest, completed all events in Dagobah and Endor's look silly mispronouncing some of these planets, trying to say Ahch-To and Kef Bir. More like involving the Faulty Droids which in turn soon and Tatooine, used some Jedi mind tricks before rode all creatures in the Galaxy... not that way you not as useful as the typical red bricks outside of Completed all events in Bespin's sector, collected need over 100 more to completely level up each and Coruscant's sectors and with one more sector quick. Finally having enough of these stupid Kyber and with the final race of 38 across the galaxy events in Yavin 4's sector and completed all of yet even though that would've been a dope way to of trophies. No first I needed to actually buy of unlocking (again unlocking the privilege to still why) and that just left the Galaxy platinum trophy. Again there are 10 challenges finding something, for example the wandering mouse droids need destroying or these stupid technique they're so sneaky. But all I had left so I went to space, summoned the Trade Federation shooting challenge and after 79 hours The So after 79 hours in total; still 21 hours better of LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga's platinum thoughts on both clear but just to reiterate, these days. The Skywalker Saga as a game, from my favourite's from Traveller's Tales. The levels awesome and even not so awesome movies in LEGO actually used the blaster characters primarily for that aspect is. I'd love to see more IP's get Indiana Jones, Pirate's of the Caribbean, whatever like this from the devs... they just really need The galaxy completion is just too much filler it's a miserable experience with moments of joy. planets or just make them more unique from one forth then I'm not sitting here having a bitch for playing The Skywalker Saga but from a platinum Thank you so much for watching if you made it this with a simple "Get well soon" to let me know you whole thing if I'm honest. If you did enjoy the it helps let me know that you enjoyed yourself. platinumed next as well as answering what's the or 100%? Thank you to all my channel members for to those in the Bear Club, gnt papi, Jackie Whyte, Steel Vanguard, NPOCrushader, Zaffado, NefNef If you're new to the channel make sure if you fancy @MayorHairBear, join the discord on Twitch if you want to see some of these if those pesky time zones don't line up for