Here are two. It is. You guys all know Jake and I in regard to the outcome of the 2024 of the Democratic Party really think? Well, luckily, here to talk to us Ro Khanna, someone who is always willing willing to take some tough questions. So Congressman Khanna, Thank you. I'd love to talk about Elon Musk's tweets But we can talk about I can't believe you guys I mean, we should be in our hermetically to anyone we disagree with on anything. - Anyway, that worked. All right. So let me just start off with a simple I've been thinking a lot about. Congressman Khanna, We don't have one right now. I think it's a good thing that, in some ways, the establishment has totally been defeated in terms of the people who had a stranglehold or the powers of position, and I think it's wide open, and there in our party, and this is an opportunity But the reality is we don't have I like that you're taking a glass half why I ask is because I don't know I really don't. - I can answer. We stand for tackling inequality The reality is, you have districts that's gone in the hands of a few. You've got people and places and our entire mission should be to tackle So, Congressman Khanna, two wings of the Democratic Party, But I'm not sure that that's So let me just flesh that out first, The future of the Democratic Party. So there's the establishment wing, This is now their second time losing Joe Biden won by 43,000 votes Well, they did lose three times. Hillary Clinton lost, Joe Biden lost, Yeah, in a sense, So, I. Mean, he was pushed out of the race I think it was three losses as I counted. - Right. despotic and clownish and buffoonish, so, you know, that's not a good look If they can't beat a guy that they and is not very intelligent. So. Okay, so they're in a lot of trouble. They will come back with billions Right. And then you've got the identitarian left on identity politics. And they suffered a very heavy blow leaving only the populist left. The Bernie 2016. And I would argue Right. So now that's our impression. Now, it's easy for us to say that that seems to be of have been vindicated. But does anyone else I said to someone, if Bernie Sanders in my mind he'd be president in 2028. Not a doubt in my mind. Now, there are other people Not just me, but others. And that's I wouldn't make Bernie, of course, ran and has credibility But I do think for the first time You kind of have Sanders unleashed. I mean, he's saying now publicly And you have people like David Brooks moderate Democrats saying, yes, I agree. You have Chris Murphy, who was, you know, Sanders has something to teach us. So I've never seen more Bernie Sanders. And I say that not because of him you're talking about. Right. So, but when you look at the rest for example, where you are. Do you think they've begun Because I would, and I'm curious, curious because I'd be shocked My guess is that they're right now and figuring out which corporate robot in the next presidential election. Well, look, I think some of the House and learning lessons, indicator of the people in the House. You know, presidential candidates looking because you actually have A lot of these members some of them have elected in 1980, 1990. And the ones who are in leadership And so you have people who are elected Same thing, true in the Senate. And that's why you actually have of House and Senate leadership than you Has there been any meetings in the House discussion of what went wrong? We've had some, But there was not the same usual There were people who were saying, If you feel catcalls, few interruptions, substantive discussions. But, and the Progressive Caucus conversation about what went wrong. And people were pretty blunt, in terms of, Congressman Connor, the state that I'm from, born and raised, And I'm curious if you were surprised to flip ten separate California counties And what are your thoughts on what for Trump overwhelmingly over Harris? I was surprised, I mean, by the magnitude I was surprised I mean, I ran ahead of, But the reality is, everyone in the Bay usually because Trump was so strong in That's not criticism of her. You know, I think people in California, the homeless problem is huge. There's a feeling that basic public safety Both of those were big issues. And there was a concern hasn't been as effective as it should be the Democrats across the state. And then Donald Trump I mean, he came and he came I understand that Vice President Harris but that also played a role. Yeah. Do you think real quick on that, played a role in California Yeah, I mean, I called it public safety. I mean, absolutely, Look at Dan Lurie, one in San Francisco. He was saying, look, we can't have What happened in California as you may know, three strikes law. You commit a third crime And people thought that was ridiculous. If your third crime, you were maybe some other drug thing, you shouldn't be in jail for life. And so rightfully, there was against putting mass incarceration. People in in just in jail, especially, But you can't go from that to say, well, into Walgreens and steals things or those that they're going to be no And so the pendulum, in my view, swing And now people are coming Yeah, I. Think that's undeniable So now let's get back to The Congress Representative Khanna, you know, you and us had a big disagreement the Pramila Jayapal Trust Biden strategy. And we thought And if we're being honest, it was, bringing back paid family leave bring Never came back. And and so Manchin and Sinema Okay. Bygones be bygones. And and and our audience deeply even when we disagree. Right. And that's important. Super important. So but what I'm most curious about is like when you say the Progressive like what I'm afraid of is you guys, to be like this little bit of like, And the minute that there's we're going to go back to trust. Jeffries. Trust. Schumer. Don't don't ever disagree Don't ever fight your colleagues. Let's just let the Democratic leadership So can you reassure us in any way this time around? Yes. I think there's, a recognition of the Biden-Harris administration, immediate impact on people's lives. Many of us I'm very proud overall and the climate legislation we got And yeah, we got the checks, But we we didn't get fundamental things paid leave, some relief on childcare, and I and others were talking about. And I do think, we should have insisted that would have made a difference Not five years from now, There are other people In fact, I that was one of the points a group of progressive, activists And I was I will give myself some credit, that we needed to fight more to to get If you remember, I in the House led the I called for the firing You and I have had conversations - I fundamentally believe. Biden and Kamala Harris that we would have won this election. I mean, Amlo did it So, yes, there's a lesson for progressives but we just didn't do enough to get Maybe we wouldn't have been able to get have got paid family leave or gotten some Okay, let me just stay on it curious about is the culture. Because in the old days, as in a couple Democratic leadership, it was considered Right. And what that led to was a stifling within the Democratic Party remains that there the next time, if you were to criticize Hakeem Jeffries, and they would say you were, you know, and how dare you? And we have to have a unified message but that corporate leadership picked So am I. Am I wrong about that? Have you seen any inkling or are they just going to go back I think there's some inkling. I mean, I've called for a housecleaning and I had a senior leader in Congress he was going to be upset about it. He said, you're absolutely right. Bernie has been much more pointed abandoning the working class. Now, you know, I think if you, personalize that's, that may, ruffle feathers, but I've seen more people being willing of the Democratic Party, which is It's the consultants, it's the polling It's. And more people are Okay. Ruffle feathers need to be ruffled. There's no way to get political change But I hear you, and we've apparently taken And by the way, You deftly introduce all those bills and. That's why you're on the show. Not related to any of this. You worked with Matt Gaetz So I imagine you've got your deep concerns But people seem to be brushing under the rug. And so I'm not trying to brush his Those exist. But was he pretty good you worked on him with? Sure. I mean. I have said publicly that he helped. Me. And Bernie Sanders stop the war and to support our war Powers resolution, first war powers resolution that ever that we've worked on bills to try to ban ban PAC money, That doesn't mean, though, that, I think what I've called for, though, are entitled to a hearing. He Trump won the election, he should be asked tough questions. One of the things I'd like to know is, on legalizing marijuana? Will he make sure going to politicize, any, retribution? Will he commit to having He's always said he's for transparency. Let the report come out. He can tell his side of the story. So I think he needs to be treated There needs to be a hearing. And he should be open All right. Representative Ro Khanna, thank you - Really appreciate. - Appreciate it.