One year ago, I set up my very first saltwater reef aquarium. From planted aquariums to paludariums and everything in between, I had been designing and for 16 years prior. I'm incredibly confident within this framework, but I had no idea what to expect My only frame of reference was always hearing how much easier freshwater is in comparison. How would I know unless I tried, though? The past year in this side of that's for sure. I know many of you have also been I've documented the journey, but to fully understand the it makes sense to go back to the very beginning. Everything began when a freight These boxes contained various items from hardscape to filtration components and, of course, a stand and tank. I managed to move everything except for the enclosure. That was until Nate arrived. I should mention as well that After leveling the tank, we installed the overflow box, other necessary components, and the sump, which holds That makes the total system I had built and designed sumps before, so all of this was familiar. I've also had made countless hardscapes, but never with these materials. With arches, chunks, and flats, Nate and I spent the next six hours meticulously crafting an incredible As we scaped, our priority was visual interest derived from depth and movement that would create visual barriers for Such an intricate layout demanded which will stabilize everything for My friends from Fritz Aquatics, who sponsored the original build and this video, arrived at my house the following day. Shawn brought the lighting, which he installed. He addressed the Protein Skimmer as well. At last, the aquarium was ready for saltwater, which Nate and I had prepared the previous day. We combined water that ran through Seeing it with water was cool, but things got real when we arrived Tidal Gardens. I had seen coral before, but never like this. The diversity of types, colors, And as if that wasn't enough, I also hand-selected and On the way back to Pennsylvania, we also stopped by a small Since I'm a beginner, the consensus was that I They're easy to care for, forgiving of Truthfully, I wanted normals, but decided on Orange Storms Additionally, we picked up some When we returned to the animal room, the acclimation process began. The corals and inverts floated in the aquarium while the fish drip acclimated in a bucket below. After that, we introduced the snails, Since this was a new setup, I added Turbo Start nitrifying bacteria to ensure it was safe for Within a few days, I went to having a full-blown reef aquarium. It was surreal, and I was nervous because it was new to me. However, the fish helped to ease my stress. They became comfortable by the second day and were always there to greet me. A lot has happened since. A month after being established, a significant change occurred. Besides expected algae growth everything appeared to be doing well. However, what I did next is something I had planned from the beginning that will have many up in arms. That, of course, was the Nate brought me seven small ones to start. He nested most atop the rock work, where I didn't intent to add corals. Over the following two weeks, they did well. This inspired me to get additional corals. I dipped them in Fritz Bug Out first Then, I placed them in locations After seeing how they reacted to the environment, I returned a little later At three months, the side effects First were water parameters that I hadn't yet tested or dosed for Let's just say my levels weren't optimal. I have since got that all in check. Second was a problem I didn't lack of light. The issue wasn't with the lights but the lid. I didn't intend to use one at all, but something I failed to consider happened. About a week after the original setup, the fish got too excited during I was able to get it back but I knew it may not be as lucky next time. I promptly made a polycarbonate lid, which filtered out a lot of the usable light. Unfortunately, this unfavorable especially the chalices, to show their skeletons. Dosing over the following two However, I was still using the lid, which took its toll on the chalices. All that remained of the that I decided to remove. However, since the other corals were on the mend, I added a few more - including the infamous Pulsing Xenia. I know I was a madman already, but I decided to include yet About a month later, a friend sent me this Orange Frogspawn Razzle. He got it from a friend of but didn't have room for it. Needless to say, I was happy The tank did well over the following three months, except for the Space Invader Chalice. I decided it was time for a few more corals, including my first try at an SPS, which tend to be more difficult. My guess is that you probably realized I developed a severe love and may have ended up with two more. I think that's partly because the but more about that later. A few more invertebrates, including Emerald Crabs and also moved in. That wouldn't be the last time, either. I introduced an Arrow Crab and a few Peppermint Shrimp the following month. On the same day, I finally got a coral I'd been Blue Mushrooms. Shawn brought me a few right before An issue that took awhile to become apparent was with this frogspawn. As you can see, a lot of its from the issue I had before. However, it never truly grew back properly and I think that because of the anemones. Most likely they were stinging it, so I moved it to a more Just shy of 11 months later and I finally decided to get more fish. I wasn't about to add them I made a proper quarantine setup that I can use from here on It's comprised of a simple Anyway, after getting the I released them into the tank. Many weeks later, in the current day, all the fish are doing well. I decided on a small school and a Tailspot Blenny, named Benny. Together, they are Benny and the Jammies. Trust me, that wasn't my idea, but inevitably, it became They're healthy, personable, and eating well so needless to say, they're ready Let's see what they think and take a closer look. One year as saltwater hobbyist. What do you think? I know this aquarium is nightmare fuel to some, which I'll elaborate on shortly, but it's precisely what I wanted. I realize you don't find but that's not what I find appealing. I like to see movement and life everywhere. And what provides more movement Not only does it sway with the flow of water, but the polyps pulse to increase water movement. It's widely considered an invasive nuisance, but it's probably my favorite and one I wanted years before Another potentially more infamous coral here is the Green Star Polyp or GSP. It creates encrusting carpets that It's generally considered problematic, but I don't think anyone would argue that Clove Polys also have the but they tend not to bother other corals. I suppose I should address the the anemones. I knew I wanted to include them from the start, but what I didn't expect Truthfully, I prefer them over every coral. There's just something about the Not to mention how cool the symbiotic The fish seem so content swimming about them and watching this unfold is the thing I That said, I'm not oblivious to They can move whenever they please and stick to anything else, including corals. There are also horror stories of them You can get anemone guards that I'm still waiting for mine to arrive. They can sting corals as well, Luckily, the Frogspawn is on the mend and looking better these days. It will take months before it's Otherwise I haven't had many issues with them and only had to move two, which is easy. I simply connect an airline tube to a pump and situated it near the anemone's foot. It takes about 10 minutes, Additionally, I'll have to start pulling these if I want to maintain my coral populations. I enjoy them so much, though, that I don't mind intervening when necessary. From what I've read, it probably worked out that I added Apparently, the best results are achieved when they're added before most of the corals. For as much success as I've had with all of that, there were also expected failures. Here is a complete list of Anyway, none of the chalices or the brain made it and the other ones I marked off. I also don't know what Both did well for a while and then randomly stopped opening and now they look like this. I never saw anything physical, like Zoa-Eating Nudibranch, and the other corals were stable by then. I think it's safe to say that the but I should've expected as much Otherwise, I was able to revitalize and maintain the other corals I have. Additionally, the vast majority of The hammer only showed some of its skeleton, but this frogspawn looked like the I bring this up again because Even though I knew failure I questioned why I even decided to try. I kept thinking I wouldn't be And even though it was a challenge, I went the coral reef route for a reason. I originally planned to start and maybe I would've been better off if I did, but I wanted to do something This being my first try, I decided that algae wouldn't be different Thankfully, I persevered Although I took the process slow later on, I think the initial setup If I were to do this again I'd allow the rocks to season for I think the system's newness played I likely would've gone with a different Ultimately, I like what I have, though, and only intend to get a few more. I'm enjoying the fish as well. Starting with clownfish was the move, but I didn't want to get more fish until they hosted the anemones. However, I was fine with more inverts, like Emerald Crabs, the Serpent Starfish, I rarely see the emerald crabs or shrimp,which I got to They took care of that in no time. The starfish was a great addition, too. It primarily stays still until feeding time, where it scurries alongside hermit That is unless I feed it directly, which it gladly accepts. However, my favorite invert is the arrow crab. It's constantly sifting through but I do my best to keep it well-fed so it Let's not forget about Benny and the Jammies. Honestly, Benny may be my favorite fish in here. I love how calculated each move is and just the general silliness of blennies. I also think the Pajama Originally, I wanted a school of Green Chromis, but the more research I did, the more I became uninterested. Of course, I'll get a few more fish long term, but I don't intend to stock I'm curious, though, what else do you think I should put in here? Caring for this tank and saltwater in general has been a mostly enjoyable experience. Sure, I had trials at first, If that's the worst of it, then I can't complain. Also, for reference, here's a comparison with and without the polycarbonate lid. I'm not oblivious to the advantage I had by having the original setup and water And just to be clear, I'd use their products anyway, but they are shown here with a paid promotion. Still, I don't think saltwater is and is more similar to freshwater than I expected. It's really as simple as maintaining unless you're doing something In other words, having something beautiful isn't much more challenging than a planted tank. The steps to get there are However, everything in and thus, the barrier to entry is greater. I will admit, though, that I'll always connect As amazing as it is to observe clownfish hosting their anemones, various inverts scurrying about, and much more, it just doesn't provide me with the same Maybe that will change as I Regardless, I love the setup, am extremely happy with its progress, and intend to explore other