It's that time of the year again. This year, Alexia started school, and that's been a whole new experience as a mom. It's been quite a year, So we started decorating for Christmas a week ago, because I wanted some of that Christmas joy earlier. Tag along to see how I decorated our home this year for Christmas ;) Usually I start decorating for Christmas after my birthday, which is November 23rd. It hasn't been my birthday yet, but my home is already fully decked with Christmas vibe, which, to me, is a little weird ;) Use hair spray to preserve the freshly cut branch a bit longer. It blocks the plant's pores, allowing it to retain more water. Cushion topper adds comfort and durability, which is a must for those who have dogs &amp; cats ;) Adding nature elements to home decoration is my key style. Soak the branches in water overnight. Making and creating things feel good, and I have deep respect for people and their craft. Craftspeople experiment with and draw inspiration and resources from a centuries-old ecosystem and tradition. They trade and transmit their know-how within their communities and through generations. We can learn so much about humanity history and heritage by looking at craftspeople and the things they make, within their own geographical and social contexts. I'm equally excited by the past and the future. While I love using technology to make my life easier, it frees up my time to explore the art of living joyfully, to be inspired by the good old day of life in the countryside. To foster self-reliance in my child. To equip her with the skills and confidence she needs to navigate the world independently. It is important to start working on these skills from a young age, this way they become a habit in their daily life as they get older. I'm not religious, so Christmas for me is all about family. One of the best parts of the holiday season for me is the decorating. The Christmas decorations cheer me up on dark, grey days of winter. It's always been one of my favorite activities, and now that I have kid, it's even more exciting to share the experience with her. How things tend to operate in the world today: We want things immediate and fast. There's no time to dawdle and get distracted, rather everything should happen the very instant we desire it. This now culture has become a running theme in all parts of life. But it isn't how life really works. Slow leads to progress, success, and breakthroughs. And this is a lesson that I always have to reinforce myself. That's why I like decorating. The power of slow shows when I work with my hands. I have to take time and let my hands do the work. There is no shortcuts. Whenever I rush things, it would always end up bad and I have to redo it. Respect your process. Everyone works differently. Don't get down on ourselves when we aren't able to do something we saw on the internet. It doesn't matter if we do a little or a lot on a daily basis. The only measurement is that we are getting closer to our goal everyday. Time to put up the christmas tree! Actually since 2 years we don't take it down after Christmas anymore. In January we just bring the tree up and store it in the attic. We bought this artificial tree 7 years ago and it's still like new. All ornaments were bought after Christmas when they were in sale, and we keep re-using them. Alexia &amp; her best friend ;) It's my first year decorating our hallway, and I have some exciting ideas that I wanted to share with you. This is so cozy - my new favorite corner! Preparing the advent calendar with 24 gifts for Alexia. My original plan was 24 small, simple, cute gifts. But T, with his usual train of thoughts, mentioned 2 things: First, it's winter holiday so Alexia spends more time inside than summer. He reminds me that we need to keep her entertained ;) And second, it's her first year of school, so he wants to boost her logic &amp; problem solving skills, not by &quot;repetitive learning&quot;, but by playing. He spent a whole day or two doing research, and came up with a list of best board games for kids her age, which are fantastic resources for teaching logic to kids while having fun. So now half of the gifts are games he curated himself. I'm just so grateful for having him in my life. No matter what he does, he put so much heart and mind into it. Currently reading the short stories collection &quot;Out of India&quot;. I re-used the wreaths from last Christmas ;) The Christmas lights outside the house were left in place, so now I don't have to put them back up ;) You know you're old when you're doing something in certain ways ;) Say hello to the 4 new friends ;) The first snowfall this winter! It has arrived so early! So beautiful! What's better than baking cookies while it's snowing outside. 300 gr all-purpose flour, 100 gr sugar, pinch of salt, 1 tsp Vanilla Extract 200 gr unsalted butter (room temperature) 2 eggs Divide the dough in 2 parts: 1/3 &amp; 2/3 Mix the 1/3 part with 1 tbsp cacao, the 2/3 part with 2 tbsp matcha. Knead the dough quickly. Chill in the fridge for 30 minutes. Use the cacao dough for the trunk and matcha dough for the leaves. Pre-heat the oven to 165 degC. Bake for 10 minutes. Decorate the cookies with mini edible ornaments ;)