- [Derek] This is the world's located in Tsukuba, Japan. Now, I know that it just looks of sprinklers, but this building The science conducted here of people safe, and it's only We were given exclusive and they even let us to stand under the most intense rainfall ever recorded. - [Petr] This is insane. Nope, nope, nope, nope, - Japan is a land of natural disasters. Most people will think and volcanoes, but it also which are like hurricanes that pick up energy from the Pacific Ocean and dump meters of rain on the islands. Yakushima Island near the of the wettest places on Earth, receiving up to 10 meters For comparison, the Amazon about three meters of rain per year. That's three times less Most of the time, rain isn't a problem. The water evaporates and is then absorbed by plants or enters the underground aquifer systems. But too much rain in a short period, like after a typhoon can Problems that scientists working at NIED use the rainfall and hopefully prevent. The giant warehouse is equipped with 550 nozzles attached to the roof. The scientists can control the intensity of the rain from 15 millimeters per hour to 300 millimeters per hour. The most rainfall ever on the 22nd of June, of rain fell on the So this warehouse can simulate anyone has ever experienced. In a way that makes it the And honestly, I'm having a good time here in sunny Australia. So I sent Veritasium - They're gonna turn on So I'm running out to grab Wow, this is so much rain. All around me, there is of rain falling every hour. We've only turned it on and there's just so much rain. There's already puddles, this I don't think I've ever like this before. - The nozzles at the of varying diameters, so of different sizes, and the how fast it falls. You've likely experienced the kind of rain with the big droplets that pelt your face or walked through a drizzle where small drops hover like mist. Because the smaller the There are two forces gravity and air resistance. And the larger raindrops to surface area ratio, and so they have a so they will be falling faster. A raindrop that's one at only about two meters per second, while a three millimeter raindrop falls at six meters per second. Air resistance is also why like cartoon raindrops. They are closer to spherical, but a bit flatter on the bottom where they encounter oncoming air. If a raindrop gets too big, it flattens out, caves in in the middle and briefly resembles a little parachute before it breaks up into smaller droplets. Flooding is something that and for good reason. In July, 2018, there were due to the rainfall Some regions of the country of rain in just 10 days, and the resulting floods were enough that more than 8 million people had to be evacuated from their homes. Over 200 people died, and the damage to property than 1 trillion yen, nearly $10 billion. Tokyo, the capital city of Japan, is very vulnerable to flooding. There are more than a hundred of nearly 40 million people. To prevent the rivers from and tunnels under the city leading to an enormous water storage tank. In October, 2019, typhoon Hagibis dumped over onto the city in under 48 hours. The underground system diverted of water and prevented an But flooding isn't the only problem. Japan is a very mountainous and villages situated in valleys. So combined with the heavy rainfall, this creates the perfect (man screaming) The researchers at NIED have where landslides are a But landslides are so complicated. There are so many factors that affect if a landslide will occur, how large it could be, and how much damage it will do. Not just the slope angle but the type of soil, and the vegetation growing This is footage from a landslide that occurred in Norway in June of 2020. There's barely any slope angle here, but the whole area sits an incredibly unstable clay to intense rainfall loses becoming a liquid. In the case of this landslide, though several homes The complexity of the physics of landslides is why the work done at the large scale rainfall The best way to minimize and it's the same for cybersecurity. Creating strong passwords, backing up your data and and software regularly. Something that's particularly useful is a virtual private network NordVPN hides your IP address and helps protect your online identity. Petr filmed on location in Japan and he used NordVPN to safely And I am currently in Australia, and I've been using 'cause I think the at the cup this year. Something I especially that their speeds are blisteringly fast. So it's effortless to just High speeds are particularly to streaming services and hopping on servers in distant that's only available in those regions. For viewers of this channel, use the link nordvpn.com/veritasium for a huge discount on a two year plan, plus an extra four months for free. So I'll put that link There's a 30 day money back guarantee, so it's entirely risk free. Just go to nordvpn.com/veritasium. So I wanna thank NordVPN of the video, and now back to the world's largest rainfall simulator. - All right, I'm gonna try I have a very nice, very nice jacket. I'm not sure how it's gonna (Petr screaming) Oh my God, this is insane. Nope, nope, nope, nope, My jacket is waterproof, so I was fine. But my jeans are - [Derek] To study landslides, the whole warehouse - [Peter] The rainfall simulator can be in one of five positions. - Velocity is about one - One meter per minute. Wow, it moves on these railway tracks. Every time you move it, you need to grab this gigantic This is the pipe that connects all the water up to the sprinklers. There's a number of these kind of openings in the pipe along the line. So when you move it, you just connect it to a different part. So this is the landslide testing facility? - Yes, this is a 30 degree This is a shallow landslide. Now you can put the soil - [Petr] You would put all and then you'd bring the building over. You'd move it over here. And then you'd start raining on it. - Yes. - [Dr. Sakai] 20 degrees - Right, so you have a 30, a 40, and a 20, 20, 30, 40. - [Derek] So what causes landslides? Well, a slope will slide when the force of gravity pulling it down becomes greater than the force of friction holding it up. - There's a misnomer out there that water makes the materials and it soaks into the ground That's not true, water's for many materials, including quartz, which is our most common - [Derek] So water doesn't but soil is porous. There are grains and there are And as it rains, the the pores become filled with water, and as it keeps raining, the water pressure in the pores increases, which decreases the For a slope that was this decrease in friction to the slope breaking - One thing that our very well developed at yet is determining is it going to slide slowly or is it going to slide That's a tough one, that's, so of getting at that. And you know, the scaler effects are huge. So many people have a you know, a small scale flume, but now you're dealing you're starting to get off scale. A large scale stimulation is really important. - [Derek] So how can Well, there are a few things you can do, like using steel beams and Or you can dig up the to decrease the slope angle. And when it's expected after too much rain, engineers and place pipes to drain the water out. Another solution is to and diversion channels, that will catch or divert the landslide before it hits a residential area. Trees are incredibly effective Not only do their roots they draw the water up from which effectively drains the soil and decreases the water level. (chainsaw operating) Where steep slopes have been deforested for the timber industry, Over the last few decades, there has been a tenfold in the forests of British Columbia. - Humans are really good and we're shaping the land a heck of a lot more quickly than So when we excavate over or more landslide or and that triggers landslides Study in Seattle from Seattle, showed that I think more than 85% had at least partial human - [Derek] While the focus on landslide study and prevention, the simulator is also used to test how drones fly in rainy It's also used to test self-driving cars. The data is used to improve the hardware and software of how the The two main ways that self-driving traffic lights and or LIDAR sensors. In both cases, rain can and accuracy of these sensors. So testing them in a perfectly helps engineers develop solutions to these weather challenges. - In Japan, the rainfall And now in this century, the rainfall condition in so much short time. - [Derek] As the world heats to fossil fuels, extreme weather events Compared to 30 years ago, the with an intensity of have become 40% more common. Rainfall at double that intensity has become 70% more common. Climate change will increase and the occurrence of which is why the work done at the world's largest rainfall and more important. But I hope that humanity on addressing the root and not just on the mitigation