The weather forecast mentioned a snowstorm, so my son and I went out to play in the snow. But soon we saw a black figure moving in the middle of the white snow. As we got closer, we saw two little puppies shivering in the cold. When they saw us approaching, they looked up at us cautiously with their little eyes. In such a heavy snowfall, I wondered how these little puppies ended up here alone. There was no one else around. We were so happy taking snow pictures, but now we suddenly didn't know what to do with these two little ones. If we left them here, I doubted they would make it through the night. So, my son and I decided to bring them home to keep them warm through the snowstorm. When we opened the door, our actions surprised my wife, as she's not too fond of dogs. I explained to her that at first, I thought they were hedgehogs sitting there, but they turned out to be puppies. She asked what we planned to do with them, and I told her we just wanted to help them for now. By now, the puppies were so cold that they were shaking in my arms, and the one my son held was trembling too. Eventually, my wife couldn't bear the thought of leaving them outside, so she agreed to let us take care of them. Now, it was time to warm them up. I couldn't believe that our simple snow outing ended with us bringing home two little dogs. Who knows how long these puppies had been in the snow? Thankfully, we found them; I can't imagine what might have happened otherwise. We were out of puppy milk powder, so my wife said she would go to the store later to buy some. She may seem tough, but she's very kind-hearted. My son and I set the puppies down in a warmer spot indoors. Even inside, they were still shaking, so we started figuring out where to set up a cozy place for them to sleep. Seeing how cold they were, I grabbed a towel to gently dry them off. While I was drying them, my wife set up a little bed for them. Once their bed was ready, we placed them in it, and they napped for about half an hour. Now, they had just woken up. I asked if they wanted some milk, and one of the little ones perked up her head as if she understood. When she heard the word &quot;milk,&quot; she got excited; she must have been hungry. So, I picked her up to get them fed. Both of them looked pretty healthy, and I wondered why they had been left out in the snow. The other puppy also smelled the milk and came over eagerly. I put the milk powder in a bowl to see if they could drink by themselves, and they did just fine. It's a relief that they can drink on their own; this way, we don't have to feed them directly. We found some leftover puppy milk powder from when our other dog was small, so we used it for them. It was lucky we had some, or we wouldn't have been able to get any with the stores closed in the snowstorm. Watching them drink on their own made us feel much more at ease. After drinking and resting for a while, the two little ones seemed to be recovering. One of them peed, so I showed her the pee pad and told her to use it from now on. In no time, the two started playfully wrestling; they're already showing their spunky sides! My wife came over to see the puppies after she finished her work, and they immediately snuggled up to her. She mentioned that she's been afraid of dogs since one bit her as a child, but she couldn't bear to leave them out in the cold. The snow is too heavy now, so we'll go to the store tomorrow to get some food and supplies for them. After finishing their milk, they clung to her shoes, as if they knew she had helped them. The puppies are now full of energy, nibbling on her fluffy slippers. I can already tell they'll be quite the handful when they grow up. They were just wrestling in the cardboard box! Both puppies are cheerful, playful, and love being around people--they're really affectionate. Even though we just met, they seem to have accepted us as their family since we were the ones who fed them. They're not afraid of us at all, happily playing around our feet. They even follow my wife's every step, staying close to her feet. Now that they're doing fine, we're relieved to see them in good spirits. At 1:30 a.m., I woke up to feed them again, setting multiple alarms to make sure they get fed regularly. They're still very young and need to be fed on time, especially in this cold weather. When I brought over the milk powder, they were already awake, probably drawn by the smell. Even though they've been here a whole day, I still can't tell them apart. I set down the milk and started feeding them one by one; the one in front eagerly started drinking. They must have been really hungry. It's a good thing we set those alarms; otherwise, they would've woken up starving. I added a bit of wet food to the milk powder to make it more filling for them. The bowl of milk powder is almost empty now; it seems like the bowl is a bit small for them. If I'm not careful, one of the puppies will get pushed out. They're not quite sure how to eat the dog food yet. They just keep drinking the milk, even though the dog food has been soaking and is already soft. Once the milk was gone, the puppies started nibbling on the dog food. It seems they still prefer drinking milk. One puppy was eating so quickly and hogging the space, so we moved him aside to let the other one have a turn. He kept trying to squeeze back in, and I could tell the other puppy hadn't eaten much yet. When I held him, I could feel his belly was already round and full. I could barely hold onto him! I told him to wait a bit so the other puppy could eat more, as her belly was still empty. This little one has quite the appetite, but as soon as he goes in, the other puppy can't get any food. He's got a bigger head than her. He stretched his neck like a giraffe, and even though his belly was about to burst, he still wanted to eat more. We tried to reason with him to let his sister finish her food and told him to go wander around a bit. Looking at his round belly, it seemed he finally had enough, so he didn't try to eat more. He even seemed to understand the need to walk off his food. He wandered around our feet and then scurried back. Slowly, he made his way back to the feeding area and pushed the other puppy out of the way again. But he really couldn't eat any more, so we quickly picked him up. I was worried he'd get too full. I told him he couldn't eat any more, then brought him over to the pee pad to see if he needed to go. Instead, he tried to nibble on my finger. He even tried to eat my finger! I guess he's going to be a little foodie when he grows up. Meanwhile, the other puppy's belly was also starting to look round as she kept eating. I told her to hurry up and eat, as the other one would soon be back to finish off any remaining bits. After eating her fill, she went to the bathroom. We had pee pads here, but she didn't use them. She did go, but not in a noticeable spot. I'm sure the smell will tell us later. They're still too young to understand instructions, so we'll just have to teach them gradually. After using the bathroom, she wandered back to the feeding area and started eating again, so we let her finish. She dove in headfirst, almost emptying the bowl of dog food. The other puppy just watched from the side. From above, you could really see the difference in their sizes. The one who eats a lot sure looks different. The next morning, the puppies were in great spirits when we woke up. It looks like they've completely recovered and even came over to interact with me. They follow my wife around constantly; she almost stepped on one by accident earlier. Both puppies are lively, exploring all around. They're full of energy. Our other dog outside keeps barking, and I wonder if these two will bark as well. I haven't heard them bark yet. The two puppies seem to be having a little meeting together, maybe discussing how they slept in their new home. Then one of them noticed me and came over. After playing for a while, the milk I had prepared earlier was now cool enough for them to drink. With their sharp noses, they smelled the milk right away and eagerly came over without any hesitation. The other puppy wanted to join, but she had a hard time squeezing in next to her. So we moved the smaller puppy aside to let the one with the bigger head eat first. In my arms, she was so eager, scratching with her little paws, and I felt like she was drooling everywhere. She was getting so impatient that I had to put her down soon, or she would've been upset. The other puppy had also eaten a good amount. They looked like they were drawing a bow and arrow, so we thought it'd be better to let the smaller puppy drink the milk while the other eats the soaked food. One was eating so neatly, like a little gentleman, while the other acted as if she hadn't eaten in days. She nestled her head right into the bowl. As soon as she started, the other puppy had to wait. We realized we needed another bowl for them, as sharing wasn't working well. Our older dog inside kept barking, wanting to play with his little brothers, but the puppies still need to finish their quarantine. I couldn't stop the little one from eating more, and soon enough, her belly was round again. Like a little mouse, she finds the food no matter where we put her. After eating, our older dog stood at the door, curious about his new siblings, but they still need to be apart. Now, the puppies are resting quietly in their bed. It's so peaceful; I wonder if they're asleep. One little head moved slightly, so they're probably not sleeping. I opened the door to check on them. One puppy was asleep while the other was wide awake, curiously looking around with her bright eyes. In the afternoon, they were napping, so we left them alone, but by early evening, the two little ones started calling out. It seemed they were hungry after a long nap, and as soon as I came in, they started pawing at the box. So, we prepared some milk powder for them and brought it over for their meal. They were so happy when they saw the milk that one of them even snuggled into my wife's arms, but then quickly rushed over to drink. He was so eager to drink that we had to lift him up to give the other puppy a chance first. The puppy drinking milk was so delicate and gentle, a real contrast to the one in my arms. Now, we've switched to a bigger bowl for them, but somehow one still ends up getting pushed aside. So, we end up holding one while the other eats, as the dog food soaked in milk is soft enough for them. If the food wasn't softened, it might be too tough for them to eat. While they were eating, our other dog, Shisan, was outside barking, clearly eager to play with his new siblings. To make sure they eat, we often have to hold the big-headed puppy; as soon as we let go, he tries to push the other one out. Sometimes, while he's eating, the other puppy just watches from the side. On the third day, we named the puppies: one is Han Yuxi, and the other is Han Yushan. Yuxi and Yushan, may they bring joy and kindness wherever they go, sharing their love with everyone. My son really loves and cares for the puppies. I asked him why he decided to rescue them. He said that they are living beings, and since they weren't even a month old, they wouldn't survive alone. I asked if he worried about whether I'd agree, but he said he only thought about saving them at the time. I told him that by bringing the puppies home, he'd need to help care for them, since we now have four dogs. My son then took Yuxi to play for a bit, and on the floor, Yuxi was really energetic, even carrying the bowl around. He carried the bowl over and then sat down, watching us with curiosity; he's definitely the brains of the house. My son said Yuxi's ears perked up earlier, but when I looked, I couldn't see them up. I crouched down to play with Yuxi and asked him to shake hands, and to my surprise, he actually did! I really adore Yuxi; I felt he was smart from the very first moment I saw him. On the fifth day, the puppies were doing great. They were adorably fierce. Right after eating, they started play-fighting, with Yuxi chasing Yushan, and then Yushan chasing Yuxi. It's nice to see them together; they're good company for each other. Even though they play-fight, it's clear they're just having fun and not actually fighting. Sometimes they wrestle, and Yuxi will climb on top of Yushan. Now, after eating, they're full of energy and really lively when they play. They don't give an inch to each other, and sometimes I can hear them growling softly--it's so adorably fierce. Seeing them so full of energy makes me feel relieved. Everything seems normal so far with their eating, sleeping, and playing. Once the weather improves, we'll take them to the vet, as it's still snowing heavily. With the low temperatures outside, I don't want them to catch a chill, and many stores are closed right now. We'll wait a few more days until the weather is better, then take them for a check-up, and afterward, they can play with our other dog. Shisan has been eager to meet the puppies, but they haven't had a chance yet. Once they've been checked and everything's clear, Shisan can play with the puppies at home. Imagining that scene is so heartwarming. Shisan is gentle and will surely take good care of them. But beyond the fun, I really just hope they grow up safe and healthy. On the seventh day, we took the puppies to the vet for a check-up. At first, we thought they were under a month old, but the vet said they're actually around two months. After a basic examination, the vet began a more thorough check-up, starting with Yushan. Yushan was so well-behaved that even the vet liked her immediately. I was surprised at how calm Yushan was; she cooperated perfectly, without making a fuss. With the Elizabethan collar on, she looked like a little princess, with a bit of extra chubbiness. Yuxi watched from nearby; he was next. I wonder if he was feeling nervous. He seemed so focused, maybe curious about what was happening with Yushan. The vet said Yushan's eyes were clear and free of any debris. I asked about a slight blue film in their eyes and when it might go away. The vet said not to worry--it typically fades within two or three months, so it's normal to see a bit of it now. Yuxi watched Yushan so intently from my arms, and now I'm eager to see how he'll do when it's his turn. I have to say, Yushan did incredibly well during the check-up. He didn't struggle or move around at all. When the vet cleaned Yushan's ears, she asked if we had cleaned them before, as they were so clean. We told her we hadn't. Meanwhile, Yuxi was quietly lying on my lap, looking a bit nervous. He looked so adorable. Once Yushan's check-up was done, it was Yuxi's turn. As soon as he got on the table, Yuxi started to get a little restless, his paws twitching. Although Yuxi is a bit more energetic than Yushan, overall, he was still cooperative. After a while, the results came back, and the vet said there were no issues--all tests for infections were negative. The vet said if they're fine for the next fifteen days, then they're just normal healthy puppies. So, we'll monitor them for two weeks. If they don't have diarrhea or vomit, we can bring them back for vaccinations. On the ninth day, I woke up around two a.m. to feed them. I noticed that Yuxi has quite a temper--he got upset when I was holding Yushan. Then he must have smelled the milk I was cooling nearby and kept pawing, wanting to climb up for it. It seems like Yuxi is getting clever. He even tried to climb onto the box to reach it, but I'd put it too high. The milk was still too hot, so I had to let it cool for a bit longer. Yuxi was so eager, even letting out a few low growls, so I told him to quiet down. It was past two a.m., and I didn't want to disturb the neighbors. If they woke up, they might complain. As soon as I stepped away, they both followed me, their bellies already round even before eating. They're incredibly sensitive to the sound of a food bowl, rushing over immediately, with their keen noses helping them out. After these days of practice, the two puppies can finally eat peacefully together. They polished off their food quickly after skipping a meal. One even stuck his paw into the bowl while eating. After they finished, they lifted their heads and then one went back in to lick the bowl clean. The other puppy went over and licked his little ears, and it looked like he was nibbling instead of licking. Then they even touched noses. After a few steps, one of them seemed to still be hungry and went back to the bowl, while the other started nibbling on his tail. Maybe he got frustrated about not getting enough food, but then they both trotted over to the pee pad together. It was adorable how they went to the bathroom at the same time, as if they planned it. Yuxi went back to chewing on something, while Yushan kept licking the bowl, almost scraping it clean. Then Yushan went over to Yuxi to play, but Yuxi quickly shooed him away with a playful swat. On the tenth day, we discovered that Yushan has learned to escape! When I heard them calling out in the morning, I rushed to make milk, only to find Yushan had already gotten out. After taking Yuxi out, I saw Yushan trying to climb out of the box. He's really brave--maybe he'd done this before when I wasn't around, which was a little startling. The moment he got out, he started gobbling up his food with gusto. On the eleventh day, Yushan escaped again, so I had to give him a little talking-to. He's a little climber. We even raised the walls of their bed, but he still managed to get out. On the twelfth day, we got them some teething sticks to chew on. Yushan was fierce about getting his food; he doesn't hesitate when it's time to eat. He's a little foodie. He went through that chew stick like a grinder. Next time, I'll get a harder one for him. After eating, they faced off through the gate. Even with a barrier, they didn't hold back. Yushan even tried to squeeze underneath, but his round belly wouldn't fit. When Yuxi poked his head through to find him, Yushan quickly hid--a real little trickster. Once he found the right moment, he slipped right through--he's got it all figured out. It's been two weeks, and the two little ones are getting used to their new home. Now, Yushan even knows his name. He comes right over when called. In just two weeks, they recognize us, know their home, and even respond to their names. I believe it'll only get better from here. On the seventeenth day, they started calling for us when they need to go to the bathroom. They won't go in their bed anymore and wait until we open the door so they can use the pee pad. Once the door is open, they even know to step through the gate themselves--they're getting better every day. On the nineteenth day, we took the two little ones outside for a walk. Since they're still so small, stairs are challenging, but I stayed by their side to encourage them. Before we went out, I dressed them in little padded jackets--a must for us Northerners. I was worried the jackets might not fit, but when I put them on in the morning, they were just perfect. They looked both cozy and festive, and we got a lot of smiles when we took them for a walk. On the twentieth day, we started taking these little ones for a walk after every meal. They really enjoy playing outside. They act differently outdoors compared to when they're at home. It's good to bring them out often, letting them express their natural playfulness. On the twenty-first day, we took the puppies to the vet for their vaccinations. I was surprised at how well Yuxi behaved. I thought he might be more difficult this time. Afterwards, the vet explained that they need three shots, each one 21 days apart. By the twenty-fourth day, all the dogs were playing together harmoniously. Initially, the puppies were shy around our older dog, but they grew more confident over time. Our older dog was chewing a bone, and Yuxi and Yushan were watching from a distance, wanting to join but still a bit cautious. After all, he's much larger than they are, and a single bump could easily send them tumbling. Shisan joined in too, keeping an eye on the &quot;big boss&quot; chewing his bone. It's rare to have all four dogs in one frame since the &quot;big boss&quot; usually doesn't come out to play. He even tried to jump over and spook the little ones, but he's actually quite gentle. On the twenty-seventh day, I dressed the puppies in new outfits again. They're living happily now, spending their days eating, play-fighting, and napping in their bed. It's hard to believe it's already been a month since we found them. They get along great with our other dogs. They play together every day, sometimes even sharing meals, and our older dog gives them plenty of space. On the thirty-fifth day, the two puppies wanted to play with Shisan, but he was more interested in my wife. The puppies were pawing at him while he snuggled up to her. It was such a heartwarming scene. On the fortieth day, they were resting in their bed, and watching them sleep just melted my heart. They were so peaceful. But I remember they were dressed when they started eating--somehow, they'd managed to take off their clothes. I'm pretty sure it was Yuxi who removed his own outfit, not Yushan's doing. On the forty-third day, we took them to the vet for their second vaccine. After logging their info, the vet started with Yushan's shot. Yushan looked a bit sad, as if he was wondering what was happening. He behaved very well, though--he didn't even make a sound or flinch during the shot. Next, it was Yuxi's turn. He stayed calm when the nurse picked him up, and he also didn't react much to the shot. Both of them handled it well this time--maybe they remembered their first shot and knew what to expect. On the fiftieth day, we took them out to see the seagulls. Yuxi was trembling quite a bit; he might have been overwhelmed by the crowd, as he's not used to so many people. Before, we'd only taken them around the neighborhood, so he might not be used to seeing so many strangers yet. Looks like we'll need to take them out more often to help them adjust to the big world. On the fifty-fourth day, we took them out again, and I peeled a boiled egg yolk for them in the car. Yushan, our little foodie, immediately jumped up to eat, and Yuxi soon followed. I let Yushan have a few bites first, then slowly moved it over to Yuxi for his turn. Both of them were eating well from my hand, but suddenly, Yuxi took a big bite and finished off the yolk. That little rascal! He gobbled it up all by himself, leaving Yushan to lick the crumbs from my hand. Good thing Yushan has a calm temperament. If he were less patient, he might have started a fight over it. As he finished the last bit, I told Yushan there was no more, and he obediently sat down. Once Yushan sat down, Yuxi sneaked back up, and Yushan kept trying to lick my hand, wanting more. It's been two months now, and they've grown quite a lot. Yuxi has started barking at strangers--a great sign for a future guard dog. But if I'm not around, he doesn't dare bark. It's almost like he's only brave when I'm there. On the sixty-third day, whenever I have time, I take all four dogs for a walk. The two puppies often surround our &quot;big boss&quot; dog, even though he's a boy, which seems to throw him off. Poor &quot;big boss&quot; gets so startled that he runs off, as if they're looking for milk. On the seventieth day, I called the puppies to go back to their bed, but Shisan went into their bed too. With Shisan's big body in there, Yushan doesn't have a spot to sleep anymore--there's no room left for him! Yushan paced around the bed, but Shisan stayed put, so Yushan circled back to me. It was as if he was trying to tell on Shisan, asking me to make him move. On the seventy-second day, I had to take the puppies out for a bathroom break in the middle of the night. I'd just gotten a new flashlight, and it was surprisingly bright. The two little ones darted around, trying to find the perfect spot to go. After Yuxi finished, I turned around and found Yushan waiting behind me, which gave me a little start. Once they both finished, they walked ahead, waiting for me, occasionally looking back to check if I was coming. They kept glancing back at me, and as soon as they saw I was close, they dashed to the door. Even in the dark, they knew exactly where home was and waited by the door for me to open it. On the seventy-fifth day, we'd been away for a day, and the puppies were so excited when we returned. They scrambled out of their bed, yipping loudly, each trying to climb onto me. Yuxi kept barking, so I told him I wouldn't pick him up until he stopped, while Yushan just pawed at the cage quietly. Sweet Yushan didn't make a sound, just wanted a cuddle--it's amazing how much you miss them even after just a day. On the seventy-eighth day, my son and daughter came home from school, each with a puppy in their arms. The puppies snuggled contentedly against them. It was such a heartwarming sight. On the eightieth day, we took them to the vet for vaccinations again--this time, the whole family went. Our group was quite a sight; even the vet commented on how dedicated we are to our dogs. Our house is lively now, with barking and playing all day as the puppies pair up and play together. The older dogs wrestle with each other, while Yuxi and Yushan have their own playful battles. They play happily in their pairs, never interfering with each other, but one call from me and they all stop instantly. Three months have passed, and the puppies have visibly grown. They've transformed from little puppies into young boys. I remember when they were no bigger than my hand. Time really flies. They've grown up so quickly right before my eyes. On the one hundred and sixtieth day, it's been half a year since we found them, and they're living a happy life. Time keeps moving, but their brotherly bond remains unchanged. Whenever I'm home, I take them outside to enjoy the fresh air together. When I told them to stop scratching, Yushan immediately came over to lick me, as if he couldn't be scolded. On the two hundredth day, when we go outside, the yard is full of dogs. I remember when they first arrived, they were about as big as Shisan's tail. Now, they're much larger than he is. They were adorable as puppies, and they're now growing into handsome dogs. I hope they'll always be by my side, staying healthy and happy. Thank you all for watching. Don't forget to like, save, and subscribe. Your support is what keeps us going!