Modern Monetary theory or MMT for short proclaiming that we should not worry but rather about whether or not government This theory became so influential Joe Biden's after which inflation shot up rapidly So that raises the question times, is modern monetary Well, luckily, at the Warwick Economic to Professor Stephanie Kelton, the author The Deficit Myth Modern Monetary Theory About precisely this question. Specifically, we discussed What drove the inflation spike? The role of central Bank monetary policy the role of supply in causing inflation still applies to countries such as the United Kingdom, which faced after a big tax cut proposal by then So without further ado, here's Stephanie Kelton. Stephanie, thank you so much for we're going to talk about is monetary And then mostly in relation to this book And I figured let's just start it lately by posing a gotcha question that is, you wrote in this book, in on page 13, you wrote something, So there a prediction but I think you like that because you wrote if history, you know, If the and the first COVID If history is any lesson, anxiety over to pressure to reduce fiscal support that didn't happen after that. Biden passed another stimulus round. I wanted to ask is in relation, could it be that modern monetary policy relevant in the sense that, you know, They thought about the real deficit. And that was the problems Okay. So we that's I'm because this paperback edition came out Yeah. Before Biden was elected. So yeah, so the package that was first is actually the package that I helped I was on the advisory committee and that's where that $1.9 So I knew in the summer of 2020 that if the Democrats were successful that the president was going to push and he ended up doing that, that Democrats would win That gave them So, you know, I'm thinking politically. Yeah. So like the likelihood as just the psychology of very large fiscal support on the heels So you're you're right to say not just that but that they went on to do so much more Yeah. Yeah. Okay. that's interesting. I didn't know that because I think it's pretty well known but maybe it's my ignorance, well known, at least, that you also worked Yeah. So in the summer of 2020, put together, And okay, we want to try to bring together that represent the Sanders sort of, together with people who would be part If Joe Biden were to win. So they established, they called them task forces, and I was one of the eight on the task force There was one on health care, one on So five people from the Biden team worked together and hashed out differences and shared what became the platform for the administration and in fact, That's where that came from. Okay. wow. Okay. That's so that's very interesting, So here, I think when you wrote the book, but it had in that sense, really sure. I mean, you know, that $1.9 was really remarkable in so many ways. The chairman of the House Budget a Democrat from Kentucky, in Congress as a Democrat, but saw himself a fiscal conservative or a deficit hawk. And, you know, he read my book. He started thinking differently. And after they moved this piece of and he's talked about this publicly But he said, you know, in this message, we just passed almost a $2 trillion And I don't know if I would have that bill through the House So he really did He said, I don't know if I would have had the courage to do that, I gained in reading the book So, yeah, yeah, I think it had an impact. Yeah. Okay, interesting. And so for me, I got the impression, or at least like was, okay, we shouldn't That's the deficit myth, That is real problems in our economy, health care, not not being, you know, sufficient or they want to talk about it In other words, And so here you could say that they stopped worrying because they were so concerned with the real deficits And then and then the final takeaway for me, but because people often say the opposite, There is a limit. And that limit is inflation. That's one of the key points of the book Inflation happened. So how do you view that? So especially now in the light helping with this this spending package? You know, as a skeptic, I could maybe say, okay, was too big because then we got this Well, okay, lots to unpack there. Yeah, right. We got massive inflation. Well, we had inflation, depending Let's take the the most extreme, So we hit 9.1% on headline But inflation was a global phenomenon. Countries that did much less fiscal got higher inflation So, you know, getting to the source of the Some people pointed to that $1.9 that's where it came from, that's It was the fact that Biden came in checks and an expanded child tax credit And it was just the sort of Milton too much money chasing too few goods, on the too much money part. It was just too much money, But really, it's the other part. It's the too few goods part. And you have to go all the way back the inflation when it really first You know, it was about a month That stimulus package didn't It couldn't have. So inflation was already picking up. It was already picking up you know, the pandemic hit. We told everybody, virtually We didn't have vaccines, We all remember that. Right. And you couldn't and theaters and What you could do was stay home You could turn your spare bedroom into your home office You know, spending most of your time. You could buy kids their laptops going to school remotely So we all tried to plow the money that narrow channel through the goods And goods They have to be produced and shipped. We have global supply chains. We all know, you know, the stories So it's the shift in demand away and then the brittle supply chains as we tried to spend and backlogs and all of that gave that initial impetus And then a second wave of COVID wave of COVID So what I saw was just worse that came one after another. Now, I don't want to totally discount you know, fiscal support plays in this. It is true that people had more money to spend, and did allow them to put some extra strain and create some, you know, bottleneck But when people look back on this, Federal Reserve or Moody's Analytics people try to kind of looking back with a benefit of hindsight, And, you know, I don't think this is all due to, you know, It's it was the supply side stuff, So the supply side is healed. Yeah. Although you could say that largely gone today. Right, with the stimulus Well, I mean, that's the thing. You know, people seemed to to people would talk as if they have it and then the stimulus is done of, well, one person's So it doesn't just evaporate Now the deposit sits somewhere else. Somebody else has it. They can turn around and spend from that at it But there is a multiplier effect And, you know, Consumer spending is really resilient. We're getting real GDP growth numbers that are coming We just have a very strong labor market. All of that has produced the sort of, you know, growth environment cushions their spending Yeah, Yeah. So I mean, you mentioned the studies I think we don't know but I think most economists would agree You also have these studies that say and demand by looking at, than demand plays, plays a role and the price is still going up, But I mean, But I do see also indeed, you know, like Food is playing a big role. It it makes no sense why would they spend it only on energy No, of course not. That's you know, trying to really disaggregate inflationary pressures can be traced And the one we haven't talked about, taking advantage during phases look, the consumer walks into the store There is a mindset in place I keep hearing about? I'm no, I'm going to have to pay more or that carton of eggs or whatever. And companies took advantage of that and in excess of the rising prices Sure, wages are up. Sure, some of their raw material costs They could raise prices to cover that But they went beyond that in many cases. And so part of the inflation before is just due to, SELLERS Inflation. Izabella Faber has called it These things have all been tossed around, but that's at least I think more than any other central bank has paid kind of closer attention to that. Yeah, they recognize it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like I got the impression they don't know nobody exactly knows I like to call themselves fiscal stimulus versus monetary supply chain disruptions from COVID versus But would you say still that like I mean, I think it's interesting that you say I think that's because, like if you talk as a nuanced issue, maybe, as I read it for many people as a very black and white thing. Right. But if you would talk to people would you be comfortable saying, but maybe sort of fiscal policy in the end I don't know, like one fifth or something? Like like something like that. I mean, I have not taken the effort you know, go through and try to identify I trust people with large staffs. I mean, I'm one person right now. Let the Federal Reserve do it, let Moody's do a good job. They've got the staff, So again, I'll just come back And at one point, the trillion package point to the inflation, excess inflation Okay. So if that's if that's their assessment, But it's trivial. Yeah. And and I think you also mentioned, missing from the debate, how big the COVID Like, imagine shutting down everything it's maybe inevitable that there was because it didn't show up too much And that that then came out in inflation. Maybe it becomes that maybe it becomes a political choice. Do we want to have a huge depression or do we want to have a recovery How do you view that? Is that the way to see it, I mean, I would I would take these outcomes You can imagine. I mean, you know, in the first two months of the pandemic. In the US, 22 million people, about 9 million people lost their jobs So it just it was a catastrophic human catastrophe what was happening. And to think that you wouldn't come in of a pandemic, that people were going they weren't going to be able to buy food that were all told they can't open, I mean, all of the, helped hold the economy together and the reopening started, that I don't think anybody imagined And people were talking if we could ever get there. You're hearing a k-shaped recovery. It was going to be very uneven. And and we got this history, within the span of two months And then, you know, the kind of rebound and a half years. It took us seven years back after the Great Recession. So the performance was just orders You know, you compare side by side. The fiscal response And you it almost hurts to think about we could have done for people But we didn't make those political choices suffered for the better part of a decade And yet at the moment, although it's changing a little bit, is relatively unpopular how do you view that issue? I've been following the debate right now where I've been viewing a couple Like, one is, well, I think Joe Biden said But then again, there also might look great, and poverty is up again So actually people are right as the GDP numbers say. How do you view this this debate? Everything you said is true. It has always been the case that we have, You have a large population and you have about half of the economy And a smaller slice One of the things that was in the COVID package, was the expanded child of all the kids in this country, But it lasted less than a year. Yeah. And when it expired, there wasn't And so a lot of kids and a lot of families It's true that real wages did not keep up in the first year But for the last ten months, And so that's the good news. And I think, you know, it is administration has so much good But at the same time, it takes a while for people after months and months of, and in grocery stores There's a lingering kind of I This was a bad time. And I think only now you're starting If you look at the latest you see really nice pop in those numbers. And it was like, what's happening here? Are people finally starting Is it reaching them? It's not reaching And it it always is. But some of the dissipated and people probably miss that support. But overall, I think, you know, it's a really good economy in the hole. Right? There are obviously people And I think the administration investments in the bipartisan that that will start seeping into communities all over the country So we'll just have to wait and see if it's soon enough Yeah, and maybe maybe it's also possible that it has been a very tough time And yet, like you say, it's a really good economy. It's maybe also relative to, because there are not many other places I'm from Europe and we've had more of a So yeah, So yeah, you know, it is true and I didn't really pick up on that absolutely an important factor in the way I do. I mean, I, I'm pretty I won't say media I mean, I watch a lot. I'm tuned in to the political discourse. And because I comment quite a bit on television or whatever, And so I watch more TV Yeah, but, you know, through the pandemic, took off, it was and not find a reporter with the big sign behind them, you know, or in a grocery store or talking to It was you were just confronted with inflation, And obviously people will feel it But also to have the media presenting in America, and it was for the better more an inescapable part of the And I think it just really helped to kind of beat people down. Yeah, okay. Yeah, Yeah. I sometimes wonder than recessions because it hits everybody. And so, as you know, it makes sense that a story about that you know, if you have a 3% of people cannot find a job Whereas with inflation, And people say this all the time, right, why it's a more salient issue. Whereas unemployment only affects, It's not true, right? I mean, somebody is unemployed, when large groups of people crisis, you know, can devastate Property values go down. Other people are impacted and the level of unemployment There's a really interesting study. I didn't know so I don't have the names of the authors But I think they were I think they were all from New Zealand I think three of them coauthored and they looked at sort of across when populations experience, high levels of inflation and they surveyed and never connected, because I'm doing this research was just, you know, are you happy And soon they had a survey and then mapped later And they paid attention to whether the economy had high levels And what they found was that generally when unemployment is low relative to In other words, unemployment And and even though inflation impacts an economy that has a lot of people and high employment people feel better Yeah. Okay. Interesting. I will look that up. I'll find yeah, yeah. You know, and I can imagine in the sense that even if you're working, it gives a sense of comfort to know find another one, For example, if you're a student. Yeah. Okay. That's that's a Yeah. so, you know, circling back and the myths that you talk about and, you know, talking about if MMT is still relevant, you know, still is, it's less controversial now, and that is that the government So that's the first myth I also talk about this all the time that's something I hope at least or at least in the circle But is that also your view, Has a less controversial Look, when when COVID hit, I mean, the headlines in major newspapers we're all meteors now. You know, people were writing to me, host of big shows, you one, you want, nobody's ever going to revert back government budgeting. But you look around and debt breaks and balanced We've got fiscal commission in the US. This push to deal with, you know, a a commission to rein in finance around the budget being pushed back So I, I don't think that we've broken I think we broke free in COVID And nobody there was about budgetary impacts or whether the government that was consistent with old ways But it's I think it's back. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I can see a similar dynamic So I'm I'm Dutch also have this very strong culture of And I see it also on the German side during the pandemic, they, you know, I think they they spent way more than they would And, you know, one interesting thing to GDP actually went down in that time, Right. Or even maybe an economics lens but GDP goes up more, Yeah. And the Germans were also talking Okay, even maybe which was unthinkable Then again now they have the debt brake economy is one of the worst and they cannot do a lot of the plans So we have this rhetorically. Many politicians still want to present the fiscal responsibility face. You know, they want to articulate plans you know, the old way of doing things. But even in the case of Germany, right, to do off budget. Yeah. Sort of will stick with the black zero But really, And I think that's I mean, we called the Inflation Reduction Act. Right. Which is a marketing thing. It's like this is designed but in a good way, in a way that says to prevent this spending So they named it I don't think we could a lot in the near term But the reality is spending into this package of something that they sold But so I think On the one hand, they've broken free The US is projected to run deficits that average That is a huge, huge difference. Yeah. And reasonably comfortable with that. Yeah. But getting to then I don't know if the second or third myth where you say, okay, the deficit is not the thing That does not might matter, We should focus on And then if I read that well, it's That's how it came across to me on the demand side. You you meant to your credit you mentioned but it's not featured that much total sense because that wasn't an issue But is that something that you think, you know, specifically? You know, maybe because when I read the book, have an inflation target but maybe if we have a lot of supply that inflation target do do you see what I'm saying? I mean, I do, the core of MMT is supply constraints. I mean, that's the more right like a household. We said in the first chapter but you can run out of things to buy. And as soon as you say that, you're And so it's all about and it's not just, as given and then avoiding allowing demand to place It's about building capacity, that if you want to spend more, so in a way where the productive capacity So go back to the, the bipartisan infrastructure bill These are the three big pieces recently. All of them are oriented around so that you can safely spend more more into an economy And, you know, Janet and she said the the White House philosophy for economics, and we call it And as soon as she said it, someone from the Trump administration, wrote an op ed in The Wall Street Janet Yellen is an MD or so Yeah, on the parallel to capacity constraints, Is that fair enough? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Maybe I was referring more to was a massive supply shock in the sense and you know, that was not discussed which again I think makes sense because Well, that was the thing. And I said and I said in that chapter, when or if inflation I mean, we've gone 30 years or more with, very modest inflation globally. Central banks to 2% and struggling to do so. And so I said, who knows whether when and whether it will reemerge, And I said, you know, wars I didn't use the word pandemic I said oil shocks. I said, you know, climate and food, you know, crop failures So preparedness is a big thing. I had op ed that I wrote in 2017 and I called it How to How to Spend And that piece did talk about pandemic to build capacity through infrastructure So I've written about it, there wasn't a sort of blueprint time to a pandemic Yeah, which, you know, nobody can follow for because you cannot But you know, in that light, would an inflation targeting government, be looking at sort of long term and then plan supply in the long term Like for example, now like let's say would I be thinking, okay, geopolitics So I want to do a little bit part of the Inflation Yeah, because that builds I guess, which then translates And similarly, has this pork reserve, right? And I think they also have a grain reserve Is that an MMT way with MMT way of looking at inflation? Yes. I mean, MMT, you know, MMT has a buffer stock scheme as a proposal for a price anchor, of the inflation But historically, where buffer stocks were used and cotton and, you know, farming You mentioned. So absolutely consistent. Yes. Thinking about the extent you want to build an economy to these sort of geopolitical Yeah, it makes sense to think about that. The I guess the question is, I know you're hearing people talk about reshoring You hear people talk about friend shoring. I don't exactly know. Sometimes in a world like the one we have Who's your friend tomorrow? I mean, I bet I won't name names, where the leadership has changed, recent elections from somebody You might have negotiated and said, we're friend shoring, One election later, you're dealing with a very different So there are all kinds of risks you can totally insulate yourself from. But for sure, when you're thinking about the production channels associated with resourcing baby formula, food grants, you know, Energy. Yeah. And so one of the main points is that we at the moment, you know, practically mainly view the central bank I think we already talked about this a little bit, of course, as the fighter of inflation and also the main cause of inflation No, no, that's that's That's put too strongly but at least that the responsibility the main responsibility of the government It's not the main responsibility Did I read that correctly? Well, if what you're saying that it's a mistake to rely on And deal with inflation, especially to rely on central banks using the existing toolkit that I think I mean, we we watch central banks try to hit a 2% part of a decade and in Japan Bernanke and Janet Yellen tried They couldn't do it. The ECB They couldn't do it. So there's a problem with the idea have a very powerful tool in the entire economy, And they can just sort of dial it down inflation up or dial the interest And we're just supposed this tool to deal with I think that's a huge problem. And when when the inflation Jerome Powell would come to the podium and there was a lot of pressure and people were saying, They're falling behind the curve. Why isn't Powell raising rates? And he would come out very calmly, The Federal Open Market Committee at the current level, We're not responding to this pick that our tools will be effective And he would just go through it in used car prices for these reasons And we I can't make semiconductors so we're not responding. And then later, it was another driver I don't I can't deal with that. And so for many months he said our tools This pressure is coming Therefore, the Fed is not moving. And then at some point central banks, not the bank of Japan, but And you know, now we have this debate, I think, about whether whether and how much has actually played a role What do you think Well, because because I think inflation has come down that when it went up, And the abatement of those shocks has led naturally to the disinflation You know, I mentioned earlier, The Fed started raising rates There is no way that inflation started interest rates 25 basis points two times Alan Blinder, the former vice chair and he said, look, inflation was running about 2%. And he said this had nothing to do with month annualized second half of 22, The Fed has barely moved interest and it doesn't have anything to do Look at Japan, which didn't hike at all. And it goes against down, it goes against, I think, mainstream which says interest rates I don't know the exact number a year See, this is the other thing people engineering their narratives to fit If you want to make the argument that the and that the rate hikes really did work, But before we were hearing people say we used to say long and variable lags, maybe it's 24 months. And then all of these people came started to come down in June And they said, I think the lags I think, you know, the transmission mechanism is you know, shaping of expectations I mean, people just said I think the the most straightforward story the supply chains healed, things Yeah. And I would also argue while all evidence to the contrary. No, I mean, like the stimulus checks, Right. The tax credit that you made that stopped, Yeah, collapsed. I mean, that's when I got worried. That's when my recession because I saw this huge collapse And I thought, dear. And growth slowed of declining real GDP And then we got the bipartisan the Inflation Reduction Act. And I add the rate hikes. The rate And today, as we sit here, the Congressional Budget Office, says the single biggest contributor are the rate hikes, the interest rate increases by the Fed hundreds of billions of dollars additional in interest income to bondholders. And so you add 350 billion more in interest Reduction Act, the climate spending And you have fiscal policy that is very 7% of GDP, So I'm glad you bring this up I think, one of the more controversial points of MMT, and that is that as a currency issuing government, then you're effectively paying out or to the holders of your bonds, which But I also sometimes I think But what I do think is more controversial at least get the feeling and I think you've been quoted on Twitter as well, So hiking interest rates is inflationary But there I wonder if that effect is not really small to people who already have a lot of wealth And then of course, on the other side Which is that, okay, people borrow less you know, I've come across that argument really valid that you talk about it As economists, And then I think the discussion becomes And but could it be that yeah, would and so important for inflation, people, creating inflation borrowing that higher interest rates All right. So lots there. First of all, and we don't see it in the data by the private sector It's just not there. I mean, we're not seeing it. There are sectors of the economy sensitive than others. Durable goods, We know that. Right. So you look at what's happened most aggressive Yeah, there was a housing slowdown, And now home builders are building homes and trying to buy homes. We are short, depending on the estimate, and 6 million homes in the US and people will buy homes As long People just need to have a sense you know, going up or something So there are two channels. One, the central bank hikes, interest Firms might not borrow to do projects at lower interest rates and Some households won't borrow it's just gotten a little too expensive, On the other hand, rates puts a lot of additional income And it's not just through the government. We've had 6 trillion or $7 trillion Those are paying out right, from not just the government, So government is a net pair of interest. You got about $1,000,000,000,000 and you say, well, what's the Are the rate hikes? Creating enough unwillingness to borrow and spend? Is producing a drag, or are the headwinds not as strong And so I just look at the data started raising interest rates, Has spending accelerated or decelerated? Is the economy growing faster And the answer is we're growing much more If the rate hikes worked, although that could have been offset from the TIPS Act, Right. Well, that's also fiscal expansion. So that could have offset decreasing spending, Well, part of the reason in the fastest growing component I don't disagree with you out of interest income No one ever bothers I've never seen those studies. It would be helpful But let me just say this. The other thing is This is mainstream macroeconomic fiscal The models themselves if the debt ratio if there's enough if the debt is large enough that you can get into a situation increases in interest And that's what they worried about. That's when you start talking And they say at that point monetary policy in dependent of what's because the rate hikes Fighting Okay. Okay. Interesting. So that's their model. We're just pointing out that, you know, some point the debt is large enough. And in an environment rates, those interest rate increases and that income is available to be spent And if people turn around you can create a situation That's not the only inflation channel. Just, you know. Okay. All right. I mean, saying it's a possibility, but then I guess we get back to Economists like to talk about transmission which one is the most important I sense sort of a very nuance like what you're saying is, okay, And I think most people would would agree But I think the most that the majority position But that's an edge case And I'm not entirely no, actually that happens Maybe that could also be possible. I think that, look, is keep raising interest rates. And I think we can resolve the question and what actually happens if we go from 5 to 30% interest very quickly, I imagine that we're going to be able to see, What are people doing Either and you're going to create Absolutely. Going to crush the economy and you're One of those two things And no, I'm not saying that it will always only generate Yeah, okay. Yeah, the higher inflation, And we're just sort of reminding them there is a channel here because they, they tend as only the brake pedal in the car. They raise interest rates. That slows everything down. We're saying, no, there's a channel It actually works like the gas pedal And also, you know, raising interest rates discourage people from building homes, from investing in new capital that's just hampering your productive And so you look at housing and I had this conversation you think the Fed rate hikes to bring down inflation, that they produce stickier inflation Because now you have less supply, And so you can have, you know, home prices increasing because shortages of supply. Yeah, yeah. Raising prices to cover costs. If interest is a a cost to businesses that borrow to finance working capital that's an increase in costs So if businesses are relying on short and they have to pay higher rates, why wouldn't they increase prices And so there's another channel through to rising prices. Yeah, Yeah, that's tricky. Yeah, I think this is something I have I've come across like on the on the YouTube channel, transmission channel, but that it's you know, it's not that simple. Yeah. And actually think also say this like of course that are still somewhat important a lot of the thinking, of more empirical research Yeah, you come across this very often I follow ECB research on inflation and they've definitely mentioned we see spending slowing down in housing, in a lot of investment in car loans, for example, But they also say, if we're slowing down company investment, will we get more inflation in the future? And and they also say some mystery for example, or like even in Europe, didn't drop as quickly Yeah, I know Jerome Powell in his remarks made the comment that, you know, so because somebody asked him How do you see them working? Because it seems like now than it was Here we are, 525 basis points later. How are the interest rate And he said, well, they're working in the He mentioned housing. He said we've seen a slowdown there. And then he immediately said, but we have shortages And then he said, but there's nothing If the rate hikes have slowed the housing production, You know, it seems to me maybe there is You know, it was a sort of strange thing, It slowed the housing production of homes We have a shortage. There's nothing we can do about that. So in an ideal world, would the the MMT theme, would the central bank to, in synchronization fight inflation? And then the central bank focuses The government focuses on the parts I guess it depends who you ask. I mean, I know you had a conversation likes the idea of a zero interest rate, I had a recent piece in the F.T.. I leaned into that as well. I don't think that it has served us span of the last 40 years, 50 years to monkey around with the interest rate I think it would be better to anchor and then focus on There are other things the central bank tool kit to deal with credit markets and credit creation and But yeah, fine tuned, all hands on deck approach to inflation. Yeah, that brings in different agencies. I've talked in my book I mean, that could be a very important player in this where if governments you know, resources of billions, trillions of dollars and you send the legislation over tell me if I've written a good bill. And all they care about that's not very useful. But if you can get agencies if you move forward with this, we're looking bottlenecks You need to mitigate those things Maybe you might have to turn a three year or seven year plan or something like that. So you need a lot more input output modeling, more sophisticated methodology to help, so that they can make decisions when they're thinking Yeah. So the final thing often talk about the United States, but it makes total sense But you mention in the book, like modern monetary theory is, is and you contrast that with gold this MMT is extremely relevant because it's in a unique fiat position where there's no sort of money If we think about it Okay? I mean, I don't think in the book that I say that In fact, I try to I try to rebut that because it's a common argument centric at the center of the global financial. It doesn't at all. But but you mention it in relation to other like other monetary Right. That's that's fair I think. Right. Yeah. Sorry. I wanted to get you because you do go into the, the, But indeed you say then But there are many countries like Australia, that also have monetary independence. Right? So since we're in the UK right now at the at the World Economic Summit, using this framework, how did you see the gilt crises here quite recently? Were they at least the dominant narrative? Was Liz Truss wanted to and then international investors confidence in the pound So maybe the UK is not fully monetary Is that is that a correct way of saying it Liz, trust That's what she lost. So financial markets will test you They've tried and there's a name for it. The right, who think that they're going to bully and they're going to flex their muscle higher yields or punish you know, something Japanese government that when the resolve is there In the case of Liz Truss that what I saw was financial markets clearly reading correctly, that the Tories were in They were not all on the same page And the Bank of England of Japan does, which is to step in Yeah. So she she walked away. I mean, that's just what happened. You know, there's a economist in the US. His name is Narada Koch, Lakota. He was the president of the Minneapolis And after, you know, this started you know, remember, he was at the Fed, He said, this is the Bank of England. This is in financial markets. He was taking the narrative this is what happens when markets they will punish you And that's why you must always And he said, No, not at all. That's not what happened. This is just that the government, didn't do what the Bank of Japan does, Okay. So when I was reading this part we have to wrap up, I think it actually reminded me That's a popular concept in international economics, independence, a fixed exchange rate And it really I was thinking, the MMT impossible trinity fiscal freedom, fixed exchange rates it's, it's rates. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Because you say it's right. Yes. So yeah. So the free capital like you can only have two things Yeah I know, because you're saying you have to pick No, no, no, not MMT. You have to pick free capital. That's the same as in the impossible Normally fixed exchange rates or fiscal policy freedom. So because you focus more Yeah, right. So I just replace monetary policy So, you know, where you say, well, because they have free capital and they have a fixed exchange rate Right? Well, they have a central bank. I mean, this is the thing, right? They can have they're, in a sense, fiscal space restored which is what happened And that was what I think because when the financial crisis and you didn't get that immediate for backstopping of the ECB We let the wheels come off right debt crisis and yields blowing out When the pandemic started, saying as yields And she said it's I thought, my God, are you kidding? We're going to no, And I had that moment of panic. And then within I think a day or so, The ECB was doing exactly what it needed the Italian government and everybody else, And we have we have your back. So it's a political choice. It's not this holy trinity there's no way you must choose. It's a political choice. You can have your sovereignty restored. All right. Thanks so much. I think we touched upon well, at least We have not touched upon everything So thank you. And I think they'll find than, I guess, of what And thank you for coming on to clarify, so many of current issues Great. Thank you.