There's nothing special about the United States. What makes the US think that Why should the Indonesian president He is the executive director of ... As a historian and a journalist, and he has all these things: Democracy doesn't mature when you get Democracy is in the head, You love lecturing us because I think it's a terrible piece of advice to be an intellectual, you should be dispassionate. There's two things about war zones they see the death, but what they don't get is the noise is incredible. And secondly, what has become banal is the amount of toxic material. It's no sense knowing things, no sense being right about things You should be deeply moved Hi friends and fellows. Welcome to this special series involving personalities coming from including Stanford University. The purpose of the series is really that I think would be of tremendous value I wanna thank you of your support so far, Hi, my guest today is Vijay Prashad and he's also the executive director Vijay, it's such an honor to have you It's my honor. Thanks a lot. Thanks for making a time. I want to start off with just asking you a little bit You were born and grew up in Kolkata, just talk a little bit about some of the things that have made you the way you are Well, if people understand Asia which is really not so easy for people you'll understand that our worlds where the ancient world is right in front of us, we don't have a break from the past, you walk out of your door, and you've got a direct link to But you also have a link the great inequalities of our time. I lived in Kolkata which is a city that, that goes back several hundred years. I literally walked out of my apartment building and there was one of the oldest British buildings that had been built when the British in the 1700s. It was still sitting there, one of these amazing old colonial administrative buildings a shell of what it had been, but it was still there. The past grips you in Asia. It's difficult to escape from the past. When people talked about, well, all the European writers on modernity like Georg Simmel talking about and you can be a new person In Asia, it's complicated We haven't had a complete break and some of the worst of our traditions. In India, for instance, the caste system alive sometimes not outside your door, but unfortunately, within people's homes, it's right there; the past, the inequality. All of that was a great learning experience And again, one of the interesting features certainly is that almost everybody It's very difficult in, say, Bengal of the early 1970s for a person not to have a political opinion. I mean, for God's sake, there was a street and the American consulate on this street it was named after Lord Harrington, Well, the government that was there a sort of center left government renamed that street Ho Chi Minh Sarani so that the US and British offices were That's the Kolkata I grew up in. I had family members I had family members and I had family members everybody had an opinion. That's what I'm trying to say. Because this grip of the past, the charged nature of Asia in the 1970s, made it impossible for people to just sit back and say, "I'm going to make money, Those were just not available to me. So, I grew up in a household of debate discussion. My father was extremely opinionated man but like to read all kinds of things, In fact, he bought a set of the encyclopedia If he was reading the newspapers What is Indonesia, Son?&quot; I would sit down, &quot;Well, Indonesia is one of the largest countries archipelago, blah blah blah, mainly Muslim population.&quot; He would want that My mother was a very connected person would take me out to get involved in things. In fact, I just want to say the best explanation is what my parents did on my birthday. When I got so many presents from people, those presents would be kept in a room and I would be brought in there in the evening, They would be received grandparent's whatever, I couldn't look at the cards or anything. My parents would make 3 piles of my presents, I didn't know what was in the wrapping; Now, if there was a bicycle, that was different, - Would been obvious. But then what they would do is one pile And I could access the box If I did something that they thought was I could get a present from the box. That was one third. One third was given to me "Happy birthday, Son, here your present.&quot; One third was put in another box. The next day, my mother and I would go to a slum, and we distribute these presents to the children; I used to resent it as child, thinking, "Come on, at least let me choose the gifts But my parents said, you're not really giving something to somebody. Because then you're deciding: I'm giving it to you. You really give something to somebody And that's a real gift." So, I just want to say they had all kinds of flaws, but because of that real grip of history, the past that you and I inherit, that past that includes the glories of Buddhism, about how to live in a just society, we come from that past, And then people like you and I where they come up with these crazy ideas, "Son, it's your birthday It's a day you must share with people And I would say that's what it meant to be Interesting. Then you made a decision to go to Pomona, When was it that you decided and write whatever you've written so far? You've written more than 40 books, Man. I mean, that's not an easy task. Well, the first thing I should say is that at Pomona College in the United States I, in fact, was very much rattled by two events One was the riot against the Sikh community My mother comes from a Sikh family and the massacre of 3,000 Sikhs in broad daylight Obviously, I knew that a country like India none of our countries are perfect. I'd grown up in Kolkata into our neighborhood after the liberation of Bangladesh 1971; a genocidal war that was there So, I wasn't naive. And yet, the killing of 3,000 Sikhs over a weekend And then very much at the same time, there was an explosion at a Union Carbide Factory when several thousand people were killed I don't know what else to call it, because Union Carbide knew was simply not working. And yet in order to make more money, And the plant, it was an enormous bomb These things bothered me. I had enrolled in college in Delhi And my father and mother basically said to me, My brother was working in California And they said, "Just go and start working So, that's what I did. But I want to back up about things from around the world actually comes from 2 years prior to that. Because in 1982, I must say, about print newspapers of that era. 1982, I remember going into the library and looking at the daily newspaper, and on the cover was a photograph it was of a row of dead bodies and a woman who looked like somebody with a head scarf around her neck And in the caption, it said something about and it said something about Palestinians massacred And obviously at the time, I didn't know I barely knew what Beirut was. But remember, I was trained to have "Son, go get the encyclopedia. So, I studied that. And I remember writing my first article small paper that I was working with I wrote an article about what had happened I must say that event of 82 Beirut struck me that photograph, the importance of that, I said to myself, and I have very much I'm a early teenager, and I said, this profession is important. And I would like to document things like this, so that other young people whether they live in Ghana, other young people will read the story Now, everybody has a kind of road that they remember later in life, you almost deconstructed. Later in life, you say, But I actually remember this conversation I remember feeling this deeply, which is why, for instance, I traveled to Beirut, Robert Fisk at the time was living in Beirut But I asked Fisky, "Hey listen, take me Because he was one of the first journalist And Fisk took me in there, and I said, where the bodies were lying, We walked around, and I didn't have I had a little picture on the internet, But walking the street with Fisk, that the role of sensitive people intellectuals of different kinds, our job is to really talk about these kind of things, and not just talk about them empirically, The empirical thing actually demoralizes people Because then you get overwhelmed - too many bad things happen. It numbs you. It demoralizes you, different range of emotions, you can either get completely numb I learned over the years that talk about that massacre, in a historical process, a social process, and how we can try our best desperately where things like that That kind of thing makes me heart sick If you don't feel when you are confronted you can't be an intellectual. Intellectuals shouldn't try to be dispassionate. I think it's a terrible piece of advice to be an intellectual, you should be dispassionate. No. You should be deeply moved but don't let your emotions create the story. Try to put your emotions into a theory. And I think that's what I would consider When you're younger, you're just sort of angry, And then some people tell you, I think that's terrible. I think take the anger and allow the anger so that you understand how to explain why terrible things happen, how you can act in the world to lessen against particularly vulnerable people. You've written a fantastic book "The Withdrawal", and you've covered the region of the Middle East. And since you brought up Beirut, which you've been expressing your views on. How do you think this will all end up with what we've seen since October 7th and what you have seen What do you think is the visual of I'm really feeling a little more desolate about this People used to talk about, people talked about a two-state solution that there'll be an Israel And in fact, that was let's call it everybody seemed to accept they all talk about the two-state solution. Some years ago, I was, again, in Beirut, and I was sitting in the office who was the editor of the Journal of Palestinian Studies. Elias is a terrific novelist, writes great books in Arabic So he's a man with a kind of I asked Elias how are things going Palestine, And he said he used a phrase for me; when 1948 happened and the Palestinians it's another Lebanese intellectual, in this case, Constantine Zureiq Nakba means 'catastrophe' in Arabic. And he defines what had happened Well, I'm sitting with another Lebanese, it's about 2010/2012, somewhere around then, little more than 10 years ago, and Elias says to me, "Look, what we have What we have is a permanent Nakba. In other words, on a permanent basis, from the occupied Palestinian territory, that is the West Bank, East Jerusalem, and Gaza, but also from Israel proper; That's what Elias said. And now, we're hearing Israeli officials the bulldozers moving from Gaza City which divides Gaza into a north and a south moving through Khan Yunis There is a almost directly stated of removing the Palestinians from Gaza. Mr Benjamin Netanyahu said that directly, For him, all Palestinians seem to be Hamas. So, we're entering a situation to a no-state solution where there will be no Palestinian state, where the Palestinians will be eradicated they will be sent into permanent exile That's what I fear is happening It is also true that tens if not hundreds are sensitized to what's going on. It's fascinating. Why are there so many people upset I covered the war operation permanent Previously, there was operation "Cast Lead" 2008; There was no mass demonstrations I mean, millions of people in the street What is bothering people? That these are Muslims saying, that's not what's exactly driving a lot of people. What's driving a lot of people, in my opinion, &quot;We don't care we're going to kill we're going to kill 10, 15, 20,000 we're going to go into Jenin we don't care, we're going to call them we're going to use words like that.&quot; It's the brazenness of the violence, the scale of the violence tens if not hundreds of millions of people Mass rolling demonstrations in the United States and nobody can control this, In the west, there's an attempt to say, It's been a kind of now slogan, President of the University of Pennsylvania under pressure from the US Congress, who are claiming anti-Semitism. That's the character of the protest. The protests are continuing "Look, if you say that criticism of Israel that is itself making it very difficult Let's be quite clear, there was no anti-Semitism really in Africa, For God's sake, when the Christians of Spain the Spanish Jews, Sephardic Jews, came to my city of Kolkata, in fact, the family of Vidal Sassoon In Kolkata where I grew up in Christmas time, there's a very famous bakery Jewish bakery, these are Baghdadi Jews That's a fascinating place It's a Jewish owned bakery and all the clients are pretty much Hindus, and the greatest sale is of Christmas cakes. - It's classic Asia in a nutshell. The owner is Jewish, Mr. Nahoum, and his family. Anti-Semitism is a European problem, it's a European problem. Europe doesn't want to face up Now, they are using that to attack I mean, why would you call me an anti-Semite? I don't have any history of anti-Semitism, I don't have any family history of anti-Semitism, I abore any kind of racism or anti-Semitism, but I also abore what the Israeli state is doing. So, their technique of trying to say is not working anymore. People are not having it. So we got a real contradiction, Gita, here, that you've got this terrible violence taking place, And at the same time, people are not I feel for Antony John Blinken they have a very difficult brief, but unfortunately they coming off I want to ask you, in your view, from a few decades ago to what it is today? Or it's actually what it was meant to be what we're seeing Because I don't think the true intentions of would have been for this to be It's very hard to say. And I think we can do two things. One is let's look at what Zionism What it has largely come to mean is a state project that says that One of the tendencies in world history from states being defined by ethnicity We have taken very seriously taking very seriously the idea of minority rights. This is a very serious and fraud issue. In India, for instance, it's a serious debate. This is not a Hindu State. India is not a Hindu State, it's a secular, where minority rights must be upheld, the rights of not only Muslims Buddhists, and so on, Christians, the idea of minority rights In Indonesia, for instance, There is a majority religion, but really, there are different strands of it, But there is still room to make the argument Israel, in its manifestation now, and said, "There are one set of rights for Jews. Jews have, for instance, And there's a second class citizen opportunity even though established by international law So, Israel right now is actually manifesting itself as an ethno-religious state which is against the tide of world history, And so Zionism has become of an ethno-nationalist religious state project. Zionism is not merely the longing It's in fact, become for a Jewish state let's say, Jewish people need safety That has disappeared, that has evaporated. So, one problem is this; of ethno-religious nationalism. And calcified is not a word I'm using loosely, There is a kind of calcification a hardness And that's one way to look at this. And I think an important way The other way to to look at is the contest within the international Jewish community. From the time of Alexander Herzel onward, there's been a current within the Zionist community The Jewish people are not about having Jews have a relationship with God, they don't need territory. This is a debate inside Judaism. It's a debate where you have very serious rabbis saying, "We are actually against the idea of Israel." That's an interesting trend in Zionism because if you remember before 1948, there were Palestinian Christians--still a there were Palestinian Muslims, and then there were Palestinian Jews who had lived alongside Christians, This strand of Palestinian Jew by this kind of calcified statecraft, there's no room now for these older kind of so that older idea of Zionism with the Messiah, with Redemption and so on, that debate inside the Jewish community and it's become far more important fealty to that calcified religious national project. And for us, this is really a warning. I'm saying this because it's not just about Israel, this is a debate in India. Should India be a Hindu state? 12% more of the population are Muslims, there's hundreds of millions of people. What are you going to do, you got to maintain the integrity of In my opinion, there is no option right now for states with the kind of historical complexity Nahoum's Muslim baker, Hindu clientele, That complexity cannot afford We cannot tolerate that. And for people who don't know this: they are on the Asian continent. What we saw for centuries in Jerusalem not different than what we saw in Delhi, not different with what you saw in Jakarta, I mean, Indonesia is interesting, where there are linkages to the traders that traded across the Indian Ocean. We are a complicated ancient part of the world. We cannot afford some of these European fantasies of one people, one language, one religion, we know where that took Europe, it took it to Nazi--Germany, I want to ask you. What happened on October 7 was a tragedy but I think people must also recognize what's happened cumulatively before then How do you think with the political division At the moment, it's the people on the right but we're sort of like sensing this division Do you sense that this division would that be a stronger excuse or reason in a prospect of a two-state solution as opposed to what what's been there I mean, the people from all over the world but we knew it was just a mission impossible Intuitively, I'm just thinking that Do you sense that there's probably I'm not saying it's going to happen but is it a bigger hope today Or smaller hope? No, I really don't want to take away the bigger hope part of the question. Let's stay with that first. I am hoping that at some point, the Israeli population has an epiphany this is leading somewhere very ugly. Already ugly, but it's going to somewhere that this generation of Israelis may not I'm very much hoping that's on the table. Now, what you said is true, October 7th, including Hamas cross the perimeter fence attack some kibbutz, and so on. Look, for all people like you, any child is attacked, that is an abomination, But many years ago, I had returned from reporting in Gaza, an editor of mine said, bring some key voices particularly to basically talk about the war and the occupation? Because there's just not enough public attention." So I approached a number of writers, a lot of Palestinian poets, Arab poets, and I made a book which I was very proud of, and it collects novelists like Teju Cole, it collects Ben Ehrenreich, the journalist; it collects a range of terrific Palestinian poets I really admire all of them. Anyway, in the introduction to the book, how do you deal with the question of violence And I came up with an image. I suggested that the Palestinians are and the Israelis have a pillow on their face And the question to ask is: When you have a pillow on your face what do you do as a human? You're going to push back. You're not going to just lie there I mean, we don't need an experiment, This I think is axiomatic that when you're being suffocated, What we saw on October 7th was exactly that. And it's also taken out of context, because people should know that For instance, the elections of 2006, people of Gaza in good faith went Now they happened to vote for Hamas. They took a electoral road. The US, the British, and the Israelis said, Well, if you're going to have an election, Are you saying that the election was fraudulent? No, they didn't actually say that. They said, "We cannot accept Hamas Well, the people have opted for Hamas, now you're saying, So they took out the parliamentary road. The West and Israel said, This parliamentary road. Then, Hamas tries all kinds of techniques they get hammered for it. (In) 2008, 2014, punctual regular attacks Then some young people, decided in 2019, We're going to non-violently march it's called the Great March of Return, Well, they did a non-violent protest: the Israeli army snipers sat there, and just fired at them killing These are people marching non-violently 200 to 300 people killed in cold blood. You don't allow them the parliamentary road, You don't allow them the road of peaceful protest, and when they attack you, So, basically what you want is you want to allow the Israelis to suffocate them, and the Palestinians should take that occupation, take that suffocation without complaining And that's the no-state solution. So, of course, nobody wants to see I've seen terrible violence that was horrendous. You talk to young parents, they'll tell you, if a car goes by, my child wakes up, and I need to keep the house clean Imagine raising a child in Iraq with the kind of noise. There's two things about war zones they see the death, but what they don't get is the noise is incredible, it's like multi-storey buildings being brought down And secondly, what has become banal is the amount of toxic material, modern things are built with toxic materials. To build a building, When you bomb it at high heat, people are breathing in heavy metals, they're breathing in all kinds of ghastly things. This level of violence, this has been going on against the Palestine So, yes, of course, we don't want to see but it's a bit I think precious to say that When they try the parliamentary road, when they try the peaceful road, Then they try the armed struggle and you say to them, "You're terrorists." I mean, I don't know what the Palestinians So, is there hope? I hope very much inside Israel that will able to come up and say, But I'm afraid there's very little evidence of that Well, I've got some Jewish and Israeli friends who are concerned about and I just sense that I hope that were to happen and I hope that were to be for the better. I want to switch to another place, And what is your take And we in a developing world are struggling there just seems to be no moral equivalence well, the West or the United States and its allies one in Ukraine and one in Israel. Well, firstly I want to say that And here's the reason why: have become completely decontextualized. If I go on, say, MSNBC in the United States, the first question they'll ask me is: And they go on and on And by the end of it, and not a media which is meant to elucidate to try to understand things. I mean you and I may not agree on but we should be able to have I really want to appreciate what you're doing which is having conversations long form discussions and so on. When we talk about Ukraine, this is one of those issues it can't be a 20 second clip: why don't you condemn Russia, why do you have double standards; why don't you condemn Russia--this becomes which is really more about my opinion I'm more interested in the broader conversation So, let's go in that direction. It's interesting that, of course, this double standards By now, a fraction of casualties in Ukraine in fact, in such a short period, the curve is here It's a fraction. The other thing is I haven't been to Ukraine, but I was in Iraq in the early part of that war, and the kind of bombing what the Israelis are doing in Gaza, I'm not seeing, for instance, the Russians come in, In fact it's interesting till today. Volodymyr Zelensky president of Ukraine for the inauguration of president; Well, he's not having to drive across the border he's flying from Kiev airport, that means the the Russians haven't bombed That's interesting. Certainly not a war like the Israelis are fighting where there firstly is no airport used to be, in 1956, Nehru flew out of Gaza That's another interesting story. But there used to be an airport, The Israelis, anyway, bomb every bit of infrastructure. In Iraq, the United States bombed all the infrastructure, you couldn't fly out of Bagdad airport They bombed the runway. The Russians haven't bombed Kiev airport, they've bombed some infrastructure, They're fighting a bizarre war. But it's not the same as the techniques of that's utilized not by the West Why did the Russians enter Ukraine? Because I think the reaction which is not able to turn against Russia has something to do with why the Russians Why is it that our countries aren't Do they have double standards? I think they see this differently they have a different perspective. It's interesting when I talk to people India as well, it's interesting that they make They put these two together. Why are they doing that? Because the argument made is: directly said that two of the near peer rivals And these people, these diplomats to try to weaken, and this is a direct quote from Lloyd Austin, "Weaken Russia, weaken China." Why is there a need to weaken Russia What's the problem? Authoritarianism doesn't seem to be United States quite happy to have all kinds of Central African Republic, and so on. That's not the problem. They're not worried about Xinjian. I mean, whatever is happening in Xinjiang, it's certainly not as bad as the kind of created by the US after 2001. I mean, United States being champions of just makes me laugh. What they did to Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, the destruction of Yemen, I can't tolerate It just doesn't appeal to me. I'm talking not about my intellect, can't take them seriously on that. Anyway, why? Something interesting has been happening Europe was actually put in a difficult position Three major wars by the US and I talk about this in &quot;The Withdrawal&quot;: the campaign against Iran, cut off Europe from three major energy sources. Libya was a principal oil supplier to Europe; Natural gas from Iran, United States cut them off Increasingly Europe started to rely on Russia. And so you had Nord Stream 1 and then several other pipelines There was reliance on Russia. There's a terrific moment when Donald Trump and Trump berates him on camera and says to him, You want us to put all this money into NATO At the same time, you're buying all this energy You want us to protect you from Russia, we're not going to tolerate this, and so on." Very interesting that the US was pushing hard to slow down on its integration At the same time, Europe was increasing This is for two reasons. Number one, China is a major manufacturer The city of Wuhan is actually a Ruhr Valley of Germany. The Ruhr Valley of Germany is moved because a lot of German companies If you go to Wuhan, you see all these companies, So one is a lot of Europe manufacturing That's one: integration. Secondly, European countries found that and country investment, the net country investment from the US or from their own multinational corporations The Europeans were not able to harness to invest in Europe. They were investing in places like Hubei Province They are not investing in their own countries. So, these countries were facing including an infrastructure gap. The United States also was experiencing this but they were able to get around that But Biden had to try desperately to push because they can't compel US multinationals to invest in their own country, They're having a hard time. So, Europe started increasingly to join First, one country, Italy, then a whole host What it seemed by 2018-2019 was that of Europe and Asia in a way Eurasia was coming back together. What had blocked Eurasia? Firstly, the colonial history had blocked integration where it's a win-win. It's not integration where India loses but at sort of equitable level. Then the Cold War was a disruptor the Iron Curtain, the attempt to, first, Now, all that is over. And for practical pragmatic reasons, This is a direct existential threat and perhaps to the United States ruling elites. They cannot tolerate the return of China Why do I say return of China? Because until about the 1820s, China was one of the leading economies It is now merely returning to where it was the century of humiliation. And they can't tolerate Russia they just can't tolerate it. I'm no big fan of Russian oligarchs or whatever. I don't have any problem being critical of them. But if we look at it, it was this integration and then you got this new Cold War basically emplacement of a US Ally after the Maidan protest. And then this utilization of Taiwan, I think reckless move by US Congress to Taipei over the last year and a half was a very reckless move. What is the need of that? I mean, you got to negotiate with Beijing, you can't basically set in motion at that end of the world. And I must say the Chinese are They didn't take the bait with US. Two US Congressional delegations What they did is after the US delegation left, they closed down Taiwan airspace Whether that's good or bad is not relevant, but at least, they didn't shoot at the US plane saying, "Why are you there? I mean, that would have been catastrophic. We have a complicated situation of You asked me before we started, why is it that the West has a hard time This is a good example of that. But do you think this is going to continue We're seeing the the kind of difficulty in trying to embrace this new multipolar world whereas we in the Global South are sort of like because we're kind of used to it. We've been oppressed, we've been colonized, we've been graced by Buddhism, Hinduism, and we seem to be okay with it. Do you see the US as being able to evolve to a place where they can actually embrace I mean, you're asking me very fine questions and now, the United States can evolve. I see what you're playing at, Obviously, one hopes that the US attempts For instance, this is the 200th anniversary put in place in December 1823 which the United States for 200 years to do whatever they want in Latin America including the kudeta 50 years ago brutal coup, not far from where I speak to you where the great singer Victor Jara You are a guitarist, I dabble with the guitar solidarity murdered very brutally for singing Songs that documented the lives People may not know this. So many of Victor Jara songs are songs it's about a worker going to work, Beautiful love songs of workers. And the man like this was killed greenlighted by Henry Kissinger, Henry Kissinger is the blood of Let's not forget that either. Okay. So, the US has these founding myths On top of all that, &quot;The city on the hill idea,&quot; Jonathan Edwards' idea "A city on the hill". It's not a city on the hill, the United States is just another country There's nothing special about the United States. It had some glorious things happen but it doesn't make it or its people special. The US and Indonesia, - comparable as a people ... Roughly comparable. What makes the US think that Why should the Indonesian president Why don't they meet each other as equals; Why should our heads of government Why should we do that? Why should we tolerate high officials basically being rude to our elected representatives? This happens all the time. I don't even want to go into examples because there is this idea of superiority some of it is racism maybe inherited but I don't think it's all racism, it also has to do with the civic religion that the US has a divine position People within the US say to immigrants they say things like, "You are lucky to be here. You must be happy to be here," Well, I'm here accidentally But it's not like this country is any better One of the first things is for the culture in the US, to come to terms with the fact that not perfect, lot of problems there. Of course, there are problems. If 1.4 billion people are able to create perfection, They have a lot of internal problems. India, my God, even more problems. Indonesia, you have a lot of problems None of us are perfect, And I think the core thing that prevents the US that other countries simply cannot be trusted, they don't have the same history, they can't govern with the same intelligence maybe, this idea that US leadership is necessary because other people are simply this definitely has to go. And the second thing is that I mean, come off it. You can't tell me with a straight face that the US political system is better I mean, look at what's going to be it's a reprise of Joe Biden versus Donald Trump. I mean, if this so-called perfect system for the election, or the system doesn't allow for dynamic young people that are alive to the digital world and so on. It's not a perfect system, there's so much money there is the electoral college which is an ancient barbaric form of I mean, there's nothing better about than the systems in India or Indonesia or anywhere. We all struggle to have better democracies. I'm sure you'd agree with me it's not a system. You can have the best voting system, Democracy is the project, it's the process, it's getting poor people to feel that they mean something, that they can confidently go out there or that they can themselves stand up and say, "I'm from a poor family. I want to represent you When we get more of that kind of evidence, Democracy doesn't mature when you get Democracy is in the head, And in that sense, US has to get over this thing the best this, the best that. I don't think that's true now, and maybe, maybe it's not been true for a long time. I'm in a camp that believes that democracy by way of the distribution of power It's got to be defined also by way of I mean, whether it's health care, welfare, I think those ought to be taken into consideration. I want to push on something that you alluded to with respect to how much military spending together with its allies. It amounts to a little over $2 trillion compared to the total military defense budget which amounts to about 2.7 - 2.8. It's a staggering number and staggering observation. Does that correlate with the kind of peace that we would like to usher in the future? Well, that number--2.15 trillion of US spending done by Global South Initiative with whom to build a major study. We'll release in January. We're going to release two studies a dossier called which is fascinating what is the Global North, We're thinking of the Global North as a block. The kind of NATO plus countries. The global South is a set of groupings, They're not organized into any kind of There are some groupings: G77 and so on, The G7 these operate as a block. The Global South is far more desperate. And the second text is on a kind of where our colleagues at Global South Initiative have looked at the amounts of that are not counted by the Stockholm Institute which is basically the gold standard because they looked at also What they found is 75%, three quarters was spent by the NATO countries. United States by far the largest share of that. But three quarters of global military spending China spends 12% of global military spending. That's quite a variance; 12%. I mean this idea that China is a major threat I think it's helpful to look at these numbers. We also have in this text a long section because it talks about the reach. I mean it is now axiomatic, not just to people like you and I but it's axiomatic to most people US has bases in Northern Australia where in fact they can house nuclear weapons which is the treaty that says it's a nuclear free zone; There's no Chinese base in, The United States tried, to say that China is building a base in Cuba. Journalist friends of mine went to the town It's fascinating. People said, "Well, we don't know anything but we do know that in the next street over, lives a Chinese family, But they've been here for 150 years. And I think there's another guy, the other end of town who's also Chinese, but I think he has comes from a family It's a really interesting attempt by the US "Oh look, we have bases there around China, There's no Base in Cuba. I also visited that area, I asked the Chinese ambassador to Cuba, very nice engaging person, intellectual, they don't have any interest in militarizing That's not their game. They keep talking about win-win relations, they want win-win relations they don't want lose-lose relations. You go to war, that's the definition of lose-lose. Win-win is more trade, So, in that sense, this military spending, I mean, I don't even know what to say. Many years ago, 100 years ago, next year, gives a speech in [inaudible] beautiful speech. And what Gandhi said in that speech, He says, "The test of civilization of a nation Now, that's a test of civilization. The test of civilization of a people And I say this because I want to say that isn't by its constitution, You can say anything in a constitution. If I go and read the constitution of Malaysia, Blah blah blah we're going to do this. We're going to eradicate this that and the other. No, don't look at a constitution Look at the budget. The budget is a better place to judge because how you spend your resources then your constitution. In the US budget, in the budget they spend far in excess on military, and so little on education, health care, Gandhi's test should be the test I was to run a debate of political candidates I would say to them, "How would you react the test of civilization of your government, the absence of starvation in your population, would you meet that standard?" And I would like to see what they answer, because the answer isn't The answer is data. It's not your morals. Will you be able to say "We've eradicated poverty." What did you do in your budget Simple as that. So, this military spending beyond obscene. It's mindboggling that they occupy as you pointed out the 75% of the total But I just don't think it's sustainable If you take a look at the budget of right now, the interest that they need to surface is already in excess of At the rate that interest rate has gone up and at the rate that it's going to stay up, at a relatively high level, I just don't think they're going to be able to And which means that there is hope I don't want to get a little too much the military industrial complex But at the end of the day, that occupy 75% of the military spending I'm not sure if that's going to boat well I'm just hopeful for some sort of by way of a budgetary consideration The other point that you had alluded to earlier would have been how the US is spending vis a vis the United Nations It's mind-boggling. How you're expecting this multilateral institution from going to war with each other when you have one giant that's spending So, talk about that. Well, the first thing is let's think about For decades, for the United States Why? From Lord John Maynard Keynes, we learned The Soviet Economist, Kondratiev, there was an upswing in the economy, then there's a crisis, you get a down swing, That's what Keynes said. Keynes said if you don't have spending then you're going to get deeper and deeper So, governments have an obligation At a downturn, which is a normal process you got to spend against the downturn That's called counter cyclical spending. In most countries in the world, counter-cyclical spending So that, for instance, let's take the Nordic countries. For decades, they, in a time of increase spending on education; build (and) maintain the schools, They did it on health care, get new machines and so on. Counter-cyclical spending was done socially; In the United States, interestingly, there's almost And I'm going to lay it out. They said, "Look, if we do all this, If we create good public transportation, good public health systems, So, the United States did At a time of the downturn, they had to spend in order to prevent the drip to have a lift. And what they did is they spent on the military. And fascinating, if you go on to US military base, it is in fact, like a northern European society; the buses are free, the education system, they spent a lot of money on the military, They subsidized an enormous amount of I mean, the reason the US came up with including the internet At that time, it it was really beneficial not for the people, because their services Poor health care has been a problem And they could have other than spend they could have spent half a trillion, and improved it beyond belief and so on. So, that's one thing to understand. Secondly, as a consequence of this Military Keynesianism, you actually have to borrow from somebody United States was lucky, The seniorism being the term for Medieval Europe, the dollar lordship. Especially after 1971, after Nixon pulls the dollar becomes the effective international currency, and most trade at the time took place Even now, about 50% of international trade There hasn't been a precipitous decline It's about little more than 50% trade So, United States is able to export its problem I was interested to see this year, Indonesian government said that of dollar profits have to be maintained in Indonesia. That's an interesting move. Because that's one out of hundreds of moves trying to break away from the system of where they feel obliged to basically We see this between West Africa and France. France uses the Euro, but West African countries were forced and also to maintain their assets Incredible; that this was being done All these schools that took place all these schools were in a way also against France in general. But the Frank in particular saying, "We can't afford to keep underwriting What about us building our wealth United States is facing this as a problem, And I'm afraid on the internet, But de-dollarization doesn't happen like this. It's going to be a very protracted slow process, and the reason is no other currency right now, Because, look, it's not like I'm not looking forward because I am, but I'm also a practical person I'm not caught by the favors The problem is that China perhaps either depending on, if you look at PPP or not, China will not actually allow its currency because as far as our systems work now, the Chinese government will have to have You'd have to allow foreign nexus There's no other way to make the renminbi in the system we have now. And the Chinese governments are not currency convertibility, they're just not going to go down that road. They've seen what happened firsthand You remember South Korea, Taiwan, racked by that tsunami of the collapse Chinese are going to allow it and nobody else really is able to provide currency The only alternative is going to be and right now to be quite honest to you, They don't really make sense to me. I mean, who's going to decide on the basket, who's going to underwrite the basket, I mean, will the Chinese Central Bank and provide liquidity; they're not providing liquidity to the BRICS bank the new Development Bank based I just don't see it. I think there's But the trend lines are clear, &quot;Look we don't want all the dollars Malaysia, you remember, Mahathir Mohamad These are all indicators over the last 25 years there's no good public policy right now to take us to a multi-polar economic system. People like [inaudible] in Malaysia have been trying to think of these issues But we don't have the boat yet. We're still living on a sinking ship There are one or two rafts in the water but you can't build a complex world economy you need another boat, There's definitely aspiration on many but there's no realism. And one way to look at it is if you there's more than a hundred trillion dollars Most of that is sitting in the G7 countries, and the biggest chunk of that is sitting At that rate, it's going to take a long time to basically compete much less de-dollarize completely or significantly or in a meaningful manner. Then you take a look at the liquidity it's also very limited. Then, I think you've got structural issues here, aspirationally I think we can. I'm with you. Well, we shouldn't get too excited with regards to the de-dollarization But there is the reality of limited liquidity And I think we've got to take it It's interesting what you ... we are complete agreement on this And for people who did pick this up, I'm going to sort of [inaudible] you a little bit because what you said was that That's the phrase you used; Well, that's interesting. Out of that 100 trillion dollar of liquidity, which by the way most countries in the world These are not legal instruments. Including the City of London by the way, they're not just Liechtenstein and this that The City of London is the largest illicit tax haven By the way the City of London isn't London. It's actually a place in London called which is the financial, it's like the Wall Street, etc. That's one third of global liquidity is sitting outside the jurisdiction of governments. For me and in our institute we play with One third of the money that could be in motion doing all kinds of unregulated activities. It's the dark web of money. I suspect a lot of it isn't drugs and weapons But we don't know, we just don't know And all these processes; Basil 2 and about how to better manage the world finances they've all come to not, because they really The last time, we, in the third world to discuss the structural issues when the UN Conference on Trade by people like Raul Prebisch in 1964. UNCTAD, at the time, came with a project, That book "Confessions of an Economic Hit Man" a section on Indonesia is fascinating, it's crazy. The World Bank comes in, you have to finance the power plant, we'll give you some concessionary financing But the Indonesian people will be But by the way, don't build such a small power plant build a giant power plant for future needs. Which means that for x number you can't run this power plant at capacity, which means it's running at a loss, which means you can't pay off which means you go into catastrophic debt. I mean, that structural problem of that period (the UN Conference on Trade and Development). And they had policy proposals to get through it. Today, UNCTAD has been wildly underfunded, it is a pale shadow of what it was, because I work often with economists have very close relationships with people he's the lead economist my friend Raja Khalidi used to work there It is terrific history, but deeply underfunded and they don't have the ability They're dealing with this small issue, The broad project, The countries of the Global South the BRICS11 or it's in the G20, they just don't have a project that's uniting them. But I think it's going to appear. And here the objective conditions are correct there are structural issues, But the subjective lack is there. And I want to say this quite forcefully What do I mean by subjective lag? I think in our countries, the seriousness of purpose, the intellectual seriousness of purpose is lacking; too many of our governments are taking advice taking advice from the IMF, We're not spending enough to build What has happened to the very fine where are those finance ministers You mentioned, we talked about Singapore earlier. Singapore at one time, had a superb superb people entering government. I may not have agreed with Rajaratnam Rajaratnam was a foreign minister. We would have disagreed on a lot of things. But there is no doubt that Mr Rajaratnam curious, right, and so on, Where are the Rajaratnam of today? Sri Lanka used to produce high quality people economist, and Lal Jayawardena who then became Where is the Lal Jayawardena of today? Some of this is the outcome of the defunding during the kind of high period of neoliberalism Inclusive of Indonesia, great intellectual capacity, So, because we have kind of eviscerated we are now basically on the phone with McKinsey asking McKinsey to give us a hand. What does McKinsey know about our own plight? They are basically cookie cutter approach When you read one McKinsey report, You need somebody who comes in and I'm going to leave you with this. When I wrote the book "The Poorer Nations," I spent about a long period of time studying seriously and paneled by Tanzania's former president and General Secretary was the former In the 1980s, they met for a long period of time to discuss the debt crisis and what's the future And they produced a report called "The Challenge of the South," In my &quot;The Poorer Nations&quot;, Today, who is going to have the intellectual to call for South Commission Number Two to impanel a group of serious people maybe 20 people, spend a year meeting regularly, and then coming up with a set of policy proposals not to have discrete proposals, What is the way forward? What would Asian regional integration, Could simply impanel Asian regional integration commission to think about what would it look like. What would it look like if India and China What would it look like could have a way of better communicating Vietnam and others about various islands. And how do we close down these conflicts and focus attention on the development issues that seem to be driving most of these countries Today, I'm saying this, again, with a heavy heart, I don't see the necessary intellectual capacity to think these through, which is why but we are still colonized by McKinsey, by the International Monetary Funds staff meetings Wow. This is very structural in a sense that for the Global South to find the right meeting point both for the governance You've mentioned this in the past about how the Global South ought to get rid of Those are sort of like the the general recipes On top of that, you've got that basic in terms of the ability or the difficulty of How can we be optimistic In addition to the fact that there's not enough liquidity. Okay. I mean, we can be symbolic, we can be the the conscience to the world in terms of humanity ought to be pushed forward, we can be quite loud, but we're not going to be as loud as if we're not getting ourselves to the level as we want ourselves to be at, and we want to be able to get out of Where's the optimism then with respect to I mean, look, you mentioned three aspects: Well, violence I think we've gotten rid off. I mean I would say less violence ... political neurosis. Yeah, you're right. Some political problems or the other. Liquidity is not a problem we just don't have capital liquidity. We just got to know how to monetize it. Exactly. Also know how to maintain It's strange that 100 years later, the question of resource sovereignty Why is it, for instance, that in our part of the world, the big mining companies are Australian, Why aren't we better able to harness and not leech the profits abroad? Why aren't we able to do that? When I go to countries around the world, "Hey listen, why do we import toothpaste?" I mean, for God's sake, In fact, if you have your own toothpaste ambition, you're going to build a chemical industry, you're going to have to build fluoride somewhere And I'm not saying that every country But why is it that only few multinational corporations Why don't we have Where is our ambition? Why should we be importing things Biscuits, for instance, why can't you have I mean for God's sake, every household if they have an oven, And you don't even need an oven for it. In India, biscuits there, are non oven made biscuits. Why are we importing biscuits? Why are we even eating pasta? Frankly, it's ridiculous, it's expensive, So, some of it has to do with I reached behind when you were talking I'm rereading Syed Hussein Alatas' books I don't know if you know his book, Syed Hussein Alatas wrote a terrific book called It's a book that inspired Edward Said in fact. Alatas basically argues in these books it's a symptom of the problem. Let's take the case of India. When we kicked the British out, - I know. And then you have to build a state, so you give somebody a uniform. They effectively come from a rural area. You give them a uniform, they come from and you give them power, You're baking corruption into the cake. In all postcolonial countries, But all the focus is on this. We are doing a project. how major corporations come into a country, and they don't pay tax in that jurisdiction, they effectively transfer out the profits In fact, don't pay tax. Part of this dispute globally now is around who should devise this pillar two thing that is coming into effect Pillar two actually is interesting with a range of safe harbors. These safe harbors are great because they are going to make a $200 billion move their revenues to 300 billion. The more of these kind of rules that you create allows global accountancy firms into the safe harbor. So, the rule is vitiated When I saw Deloitte made 60 billion this year, and I thought okay, Man, 60 billion! It's an accounting firm. Next year they'll be at 120 billion. And I saw this because I looked at and they had a FAQ for potential multinationals They're ready, they're open for business Okay, so, that level of corruption; simply not a gaze. And Syed Hussein Alatas points that out. In fact, if we could have better regulation of if we could have better banking regulations, if Basil 2 or now hopefully Basil 3 we want, for instance, hot money where banks come in to take advantage Very simple way in which you can leverage That's all you need, you don't need intelligence, you see some variance in the interest rate, you bring your volume in, you destroy a country's currency effectively. The Kwacha in Zambia is prey to this stuff it's a copper producing country. What I feel is there are so many instruments so many necessary regulatory things And by the way, it's not like we're returning or we're producing something super onerous, we're merely returning to things that were there basic banking regulations, basic requirements for banks to have I mean what is your leverage because your lack of leverage limits to take advantage of variances where the banks simply don't have the capacity they can't afford to do it, they much smaller volumes. If they make a mistake, And especially state banks So, this is hugely unfair. These are structural things, but already there are some proposals of how to undermine we need a Basil 3, and we need to return to the 1970s discussion in the UN Commission We don't have a code of conduct; I am very very much opposed to transfer pricing, very much opposed to this non- jurisdiction taxation where you're allowed to remit taxes. I mean look at what companies do, these are mainly Canadian, Australian companies They buy copper inside Zambia for, let's say, When they cross, when the truck crosses it's already $150 a ton. How did merely crossing the border Then by the time it gets to the port, By the time it gets to China, it's 280. By the time the Chinese produce it the cost of the copper inside the iPhone You don't have to go to Zambia, Man. - Huh? you just go to Indonesia to see that. We've spent more than 97 minutes talking, I could talk to you for hours, Man! But I hope you don't mind. and feel free to spend as many minutes And this is about a place that you've spent This is a geography that occupies an area India and Canada combined. Where do you think Africa is going to be in terms of the role it's going to be playing I mean, this is an area that has more than bigger than that of Mexico, And it's going to have a population of I just think that intuitively this is going to be How do you think Africa is going to play and with respect to the rest of the world? Well, when we talk about something like this, when the Western powers carved up Africa. And that attitude of treating Africa as a resource This contest that the US is trying to impose I've visited many Chinese businesses and they are operating there for profit, but I don't see them out there with guns They are entering into these countries and saying, "Hey listen, I want to do a deal with you." The United States can't outbid these; so they walk in and say, "We got to get them out I mean, it's a really ugly situation. the African continent has become front line between China and the United States. It's really an ugly situation. On the other hand, lots of positive developments What we saw in the Sahel is fascinating. Coup after coup getting rid of the French. But again, what are the options? I'm just going to give you the example of Mali, and let Mali speak for the whole continent, In the 1990s, I interviewed Alpha Oumar Konare very interesting man, comes from the left, but by the 1990s Oumar had basically said, My agenda is there to develop Mali." He had come to that view. Now, I may not agree with him, He's a head of government in Mali, he turned to the United States, and he said, "I have some problems In the northern part of Mali, The Berber Rebellion has been going on these are the Amharic people Secondly, he said I have a problem where the sedentary population; the Fulani, there is a contest between herders I need to fix that problem. But the overarching problem, and there's infrastructure problems I need to fix some things. But these are the two main conflicts But I have an overarching problem. I've inherited a massive debt that was backed by you guys; the West. What I would like is I would like a massive haircut and I would like a complete restructuring Again, completely rational thing to do. You don't need to be a person of the right, You're faced with this issue, and he said, "If I can get the debt burden off with increased tourism and so on, what look like intractable problems. Okay. United States immediately said, Why? this will create moral ambiguity That was the statement. The State Department's Africa Division &quot;You can go back home and do your best, Pal. So, he couldn't solve the issue of couldn't deal with the Herder Fulani problem and couldn't upgrade infrastructure and therefore, he got out of office. You see in 2011, when the US and France Al-Qaeda forces that had been brought often by the United States from Turkey; These fellows went down into Mali the Berber communities of the north, and they came down in incredible force came all the way down into Gao and so on just almost came into the main cities It was remarkable; Why? because they took advantage the fight between the herders and the settle, and the Malian military couldn't deal with this, because again, they underfunded, And then the French arrived, Operation Barkhane, Of course, that made a mess of things against the French now. And then there was sympathy By the way, may not be easy to understand, There was no option for young people who are now 20 years old, no option. Many of them; lower middle class, It's these young people that went back inspired by early histories of radicalism of nationalism and so on, and conducted these coups upon coups they don't have a project now, They want Mali's national interest they want to look across the border in Niger, in Guinea, and they want a common project. This is actually a great indicator of the mood but in Africa and in Asia and in Latin America. In other words, billions of people "We want to put our interests first, not the interests of the western wealthy--bond holders--first And this is maybe sounds like, I think you're under estimating people because it's interesting how people in small towns, that we need to be first here, we don't want to be second after people What we? it was corrupt governments So, we want to put our interests first. Now, as I said earlier, the problem in a lot of the ones I name Mali, Burkina Faso, many of these people come from the military, they don't have a broad sense of history, They don't understand how to build a project. Alpha Oumar Konare comes from The left movement for a lot of African people you read about history, you read about your own countries. In that school, developed a broad theory of It's pretty interesting how that generation; but these young people, they came up by lack of funding, the universities were eviscerated, they learned about military science, but they don't have a broad understanding You can't change the world unless you have a broad humanistic perspective I'm afraid, again, returning to our earlier thing to change things, there simply isn't that project Wow. I'm a believer of serendipity though in the absence of systemic or systematic or good systems or whatever. There's always that hope for some sort of which would entail positive inflection points. Vijay, I could talk to you for hours, Man! - I want to thank you for the time. Maybe you and I should create that South Commission How often do you travel to the US I travel a lot, and I'm sure we'll find a moment and then we can meet in person. I hope so. I'm really looking forward to seeing you in person. - Thank you so much for your time. - Take care. Yes, enjoyed it. That was Vijay Prashad, Thank you.