(upbeat music) (audience clapping) - Thank you, thank you. - How about that? (audience cheering) - Wasn't that nice? - What a crowd, huh? - Yeah, they love ya. - Really nice, okay, how ya doin'? - I'm doin' fine. You're looking real good. Real good, yeah. Big movie comin' out, huh? - Oh yeah, everything is - Bought a house, I hear? - I bought a house. - Out here? - No, Connecticut I bought a house. Westport. - Oh yeah, nice place. - That's very high class. - Almost from Connecticut. - Yeah. - Yeah, nice place up there. Westport, bought a house up it's really nice. People are nice, I got nice neighbors over there, too. Last weekend I played you know, Maryann and Biff. - Maryann and Biff? - Yes. You ought to come up there, spend a few days, you and I. Relax, they don't bother you. It's nice. It's a good time, just you and I alone. Want to bring Ed along too? - Sure - Nah, but I've been I'm trying to relax, you know. I go to Las Vegas next week, I've got an album coming I'm working very hard. - Yeah. - My father, he was a workaholic. - Really? - Oh yeah. You mention work, - I didn't know that. (audience laughing) - Well I finally solved my Alcoholics Anonymous, you I use a different name that's all. (audience laughing) (audience clapping) (audience whistling) I tell ya my problem is way too much. I gave my doctor a urine specimen. There was an olive in it. (audience laughing) When I drink, I don't I was loaded one night It was ridiculous. There was 15 guys for every guy. (audience laughing) Is this on full? - Is it on full? Okay, yeah, yeah. I'm never lucky in bars. I saw a sign over one bar, I went inside, there was no one there. (audience laughing) - Life ain't easy. - I mean, nothing works. I decided to look out for number one and I stepped in number two. (audience laughing) And smokin', that's another that's a beauty, huh? But with cigarettes, my my wife and I, we only smoke after sex. I've got the same pack now since 1975. (audience laughing) What bothers me is my wife. She's up to three packs a day. (audience laughing) (audience laughter drowns out speaking) - Yeah - I'll tell you the truth, my wife and I we never have sex. We get undressed and we (audience laughing) But I'll tell you one thing, she screams. Oh, especially when I walk in on her. Oh, forget 'bout it. Are you kidding, I know every time I come home the parrot says, &quot;Quick out the window.&quot; (audience laughing drowns out speaking) My house, in my house I can't relax. I've got a dog he drives me nuts. I've got a dumb dog. We call him Egypt, every (audience laughing) My kids, they don't help either. - [Johnny] No good, huh? - My kids, they're really The other day I told my kid, &quot;children of your own.&quot; He said, &quot;So will you.&quot; (audience laughing) I've got a mean kid, a very worms to the sidewalk and get hernias, are you kiddin' me? - Mean kid! - Mean kid. My daughter, too, she's no bargain either. My daughter, are you kiddin'? She's been picked up so many grow handles. (audience clapping) Yeah, yeah my daughter, you kiddin'. Her graduation book, her it's ridiculous. (audience laughing) My daughter, my daughter, - Why's that? - When she's goes to a guy's apartment, she absolutely positively (audience laughing) (audience whistling) I mean that's the trouble they are playing around I was talking to my doctor. You know my doctor, Dr Vinny Boombatz You know my doctor? Well, he told me last week six cases of VD. I mean he's alright now, ya know. (audience laughing) Oh, he's a strange doctor. - Oh yeah, very, are you kiddin'? I asked him if my heart He told me not if I join in, ya know? (audience laughing) (mumbling) But everyone wants love, And everyone is looking for a deep love, ya know. I'm lookin' for a shallow (audience laughing) I start strong but I peter (audience laughing) - Don't you have luck with women? - No, I never have luck with women. I'm no ladies man, I know that Johnny. I never got girls when I either, ya know. My one girl told me to come I went over, there was nobody home. (audience laughing) And this girl was no bargain either. She was fat. - [Johnny] Fat, huh. - [Girl] How fat? (audience laughing) - How fat? When she wears high Okay, she's fat. (audience laughing) Fat, you kiddin'? - Fat. - I met her at the Macy's (audience laughing) I mean fat. When she was on a Richard up and down, my tv fell off the stand. (audience laughing) But I'm talking a fat girl Big girl, you kiddin', she was standing alone and a (audience laughing) I mean fat, Johnny, you kiddin'? - You're talking about a large person. - I mean this girl was fat and ugly. Oh she ugly. How ugly? I took her to the beach, they asked me what I used for bait. (audience laughing) Ugly, chick, you kiddin'. When I took her home, on the floor. (audience laughing) I mean ugly, I gave her a (audience cheering drowns out speaker) Thank you very much. (mumbling) I'll tell you that. (audience cheering) And that's how ugly she was Follow me here. If I had the right trio I - So how are you, Rodney? - How-- (audience cheering) (laughing) - Hey, we've got a film clip. Right? From your picture, - It's called What's the name of this picture? - Thanks for being so well informed. (audience laughing) (laughing) - Easy. - I know you do a zebra, - Easy Money, it's called. - Easy Money. - Yeah, are you the star of this picture? - Yeah. (audience laughing) - It's tough making a - Is it tough? - It should have been called Tough Buck. - Really? You've got a lot of money - Money don't mean enough, you know that. You've got the same head. Money don't mean nothin'. It's just, ya know, you're - You haven't changed then. - Suddenly, I'm depressed. (audience laughing) - [Johnny] Does this need any, as they say, set up at all? - Well, in the movie, ya and uh, (audience laughing) and what I do is I, in this movie here, I'm like, uh, I try to You know, stop drinking, stop gambling, Stop overeating, and a few And listen, I'm in withdraw this clip shows what happens after I've stopped all these - Okay, from, here it is - Easy Money - Easy Money (audience laughing) - You gotta stay still, okay? You gotta stay still, okay kid? You gotta stay still here. Kid, you've gotta stay still. - Monty, have you ever seen - No, if I did, I'd remember it. (audience laughing) Gonna get a real good picture now, okay? - Look at him, he's got my eyes. - He's got my nose. - And my sympathy. (audience laughing) - We want some wallet size pictures, too. - This kid won't fit in a wallet size. (audience laughing) - [Father] My wife, she's very particular. - [Mother] What about you, John. He's very particular, too. - Surprised you married each other. Alright, look kid, I'm you the same thing. You gotta stay still, alright? I'll tell ya what. Look, Anthony, I'm gonna come here. Come here, will ya? Ya gotta stay still. We gotta get a good picture, Anthony. We gotta stay still. We wanna get a good picture, Anthony. Stay still, stay still. Will ya stay still? Here we go Anthony, will ya? (Anthony crying) You gotta be quiet, too, Will ya stay still, talk to me, somebody. Be quiet, will ya? John, Grandma, talk to him, will ya? Stay quiet, will ya? C'mon, hey kid. Stay quiet, will ya? Stay quiet, will ya? Somebody, will ya shut (audience cheering) (audience clapping) - Well you have a way with kids. - Huh? - You have a way with kids. - I love kids. - Well, I hope it's a big hit for ya. - Thank you so much. - Comes out a week and a day, Easy Money. - Friday, next Friday it opens. - Yeah. - Theaters everywhere. - Nationwide. - That's what they say, - Okay, we'll take a break. We'll be right back. (upbeat music)