It's time to use your strengths Yeah , hey still so many longan trees growing here. ah Flowers whisper I remember there were so many flowers and trees before Ah, I lived here for a long time . Lived here for a year Oh When I was reading no one has lived here for a year. Accompany a lot Still ok to stay Yeah, it should be possible Look at this I'm afraid there won't be anyone living here. I called you here just to let him stay for the second time. You are less Live here Still can Accommodate That's it Living in a separate house is very comfortable Still Your mother's vegetable garden is full of these Taishan, are these yours? These are not the right people you send these out ? Can I ? ah , I don't get all of this . Get it, get it, get it I thought about renting it. Then build it My wife lives in peace We live in comfort If the baby lives comfortably At least you can live comfortably for 10 to 20 years. So first come first served You didn't get it. Get it Get it Yeah, tomorrow I'd also like to trouble you to help the neighbors around here . These Ok, Ok tell him about this? For example, we need to check the land. say hi Let's do some preparation for you let me tell you You fucking said This is the operation center built for you, Shanshan . I'm so jealous, but it's a bit lousy Oh, not afraid How many houses are there? Hey, this is the bedroom. This is still a bedroom Then this is the kitchen It used to be a pigsty. Um The bathroom is also inside This is the living room. Suite You guys are all calling it a suite Yes , they are all suites. We also called the suite Then there 's another bedroom . Guess who this person is? Who sent Hahaha You have a useful word . The house is a bit old It's all your design . This is a bit old. Oh no Don't be afraid Alas, I don't have money to eat. Meals A way to survive Now the clothes are all cleaned up outside I'll do the rest tomorrow or the day after tomorrow Okay, what are you doing with this plug ? Good stuff , look. What is this ? Hahaha Hey Yes, yes, yes This is OK nice one Okay, I'll bake mine. There is water but no water There is food but no food There is electricity and fuel, but nothing is available. Wow Finished Still good looking I feel it A bit small The countdown to the renovation starts tomorrow I can't get excited you think the water is better to play recently? My sister-in-law is here I 'll go first. Ah, I'll fight first. I I'll try to be serious then . that is The power is off . Need to make a call ? To call Ah, this year's opening is getting more and more comfortable. here and the others walk You can boil water . Turn on or off the switch I heard the sound Here I come, hahaha Water is coming. Water is coming. Be this water still hitting ? Injection Injection Still hot Hot Bashi Bashi The water problem has finally been solved The flowers of life are our smiles If you remember anything , call them immediately receive Where are you doing? almost there Go up to the roof and take off the tiles Come here quickly We still have a long time to do it this boat is allowed. You see the man was caught, taken downstairs and thrown back Okay, let's build another wall on top of this wall . Stable or not And strong repair I still want to attack It's really hard to find pork from pig farms The pork from the pig farm yesterday was 78890 Here the tool can also do But people How can you interfere today when you are standing inside ? Just got a way to survive don't you finish your work first ? Isn't this for making breakfast at noon ? Ask my brother 's wife Rongrong intervenes What's for lunch ? I'll go cut some bamboo for him Come back Want it? Did you hear about eating bamboo? Bamboo 's a wine jug underneath . Drink old wine wine from last night ? It's the old wine that made me forget I bring you some wine for lunch today ? Hey, isn't this saying that there are two pots of old wine ? Is this old wine or an old wine pot ? Hahaha Wine jug, hahahaha Let's eat When the melon is ripe , you can cut the bamboo Like a pepper The flock of sheep What to do Oh oh Hello We met . We met . Hey, look, there's also the dwarf stick we played with that day. Hey, you can play with a baby. This is a toy worth twice as much as the 100 million . Come on, I'll blow it twice Drink Oops Drink water Drink water You 're a little slow . My cousin's wife took a long time to do it It's just a bit hard to win . One or two months This is just the beginning Very annoyed We need to find a way to speed up this process. Between half asleep and half awake It seems like I can hear the sailor saying come on again come on come on, come on, come on Dreams afraid of missing Go up to the window well Hey, look at the effect. the effect okay ? A bit dreamy Look here, here Looks like two pig butts? Just two eyes Lose your watch Lose your coat and backpack Again angry Throw away your heart and worries Kill the big and kill the small Oh, it smells so good. Don't move I started making graves . Ahhh There was a house renovated over there. This is still the case But we only need a few hundred dollars to eat a meal A lot of hum ah The castle of love becomes the sky The higher the sky, the higher You shine A heart pounding Let the Earth Fall Just jump higher and higher I've been overworked these days and don't have the energy to work 's all up to the masters . I wanted to steal the master's skills but failed This place used to raise pigs and sheep. We designed it into two bathrooms Plus the stairwell on the second floor Play hide-and-seek on the stone bridge Why Walk Hey this Why this Hey this Press this piece Do it together Stone is originally wood I thought the 2,000 bricks I bought were enough . As a result, we pulled another 2,000 horses today. The old master said that there is no need to look for bricks with words in the stairwell Can be attached to stone wall Finally saved two or three hundred bricks capped with glue today glue for mother and child boards I was in a coma and saw that everyone was too busy . Tried to carry a few buckets I can't stand the coma. I feel this fake is more severe than that one. Under the tree The main part of the toilet is completed Next is the second floor of the business building. Today we build the steel frame of the second floor Yearning A career full of imagination Just started I want to continue to build the second floor by using the earth wall method . Because the original earth wall is a little tilted Later, we decided to build a steel frame Can further protect the earth wall Regarding the roof , I wanted to use wood For long-lasting durability Finally , all of them adopted this steel frame structure Although a little expensive But compared with the general all-wood structure idea It's much cheaper six go go Oh, do you want to build a sewer pipe? Drain pipe Then go this way Second floor the most important point in our entire old house renovation In the future, it will have a floor -to-ceiling window Large bedroom with private bathroom also go through the second floor corridor corridor across the old house Very comfortable in terms of senses and living a half today Today is a day to save money I listened to the advice of the carpenter. I bought 18 wooden grains from two shops that were not drunk. Direct savings of 1,530 yuan Blurred night light bulb 2.9 meters Two meters nine By the way , this 55 Hurry up and do 69 just right The thing is that before, in order to unify the appearance style I was thinking about dismantling the original steel shed. But everyone suggested keeping First, cost saving Second, after the steel shed is released the frequency of repairing tiles on the roof Now I am a little worried Steel shed eaves ceiling Can it be completely covered? Don't let the earthen walls and green tiles be mixed with steel sheds. It's embarrassing . It's okay. I believe the master has skills. I am morning and evening now Once side by side The wave is 3 centimeters It's in the past The Loser relatives came to help with the tile laying today. Strength in numbers Tens of thousands of tiles were put on the roof in a short time. Gaiwa is a technical job It depends on the masters . Young people born in the 1980s and 1990s Maybe I can't even remember what the little green baby looks like . Not to mention Gaiwa 's craftsmanship According to the teacher's 1 Watt Mountain Press 7 Road 3 pairs of instructions I also learned to cover a few But this speed should be able to cover from spring to winter I have a special obsession with little frogs There is a picture engraved deep in my memory. around ten years old then . An early summer morning with a breeze and drizzle I was touched by the sound of dripping water outside the window And the rustling sound of the yellow candles awakens downstairs The sweet smell of my parents' mung bean milk is wafting in the air Pillowing on this sweetness I fell asleep again also had a dream In my dream, I turned into spring water Jumped off the eaves It became an autumn road again Climbed up the rice fields Gastrodia elata 2825628257 6 You know how much I want to go back home and play with the mud Where to go Pick some Sophora japonica flowers Eat some elm money How fragrant is the horse cannon How sweet are mulberries? Playing with Fire Jump to say I want to hum the song in Sweet Dreams The days See if you can stop here . It's just right that I shouldn't be rash You have to hit it there to get it right I can't fight back and forth Yes That's the custom. Change it up Definitely need to change Must have Hey, why are you here again? The tricks behind it Which school says this is not okay? You still don't believe it You 're looking for some work to do. Hurry up and live. There is a way left for you. The old man is back. Boa constrictor Boa constrictor Yeah yeah yeah yeah It's a bit heavy. so good Look at this blowing Quiet down Fuck me but i love Welcome to rice noodles, rice is higher Smile Another day of spending money like water He doesn't know how to be grateful It is said that a drop of water is repaid with a spring of water. about ticking He was clattering . A rough estimate I have spent more than 100,000 yuan on renting a house . For example, a 3x6 small wooden cube The master said that it is enough to pull one car first and then make up for the other . It cost three or four thousand to pull the first car I thought it wasn't expensive at the time. Then I pulled one truck after another . Another car , another car Hahahaha I can't stop This statement does not mean that the master does not know how to calculate the materials. But there is a random me and a place that can design Natural Materials As our ideas grow Let's get back to the point Let's see how we built the interior and exterior hard decoration of the second floor The second floor facade is based on double- layer wooden keels Used antiseptic wood Because of limited funds The antiseptic wood board uses the thinnest But the width is also full 9.5 Not afraid of getting wet in the rain Wind and sun Inner walls and ceilings white wood gussets are used. There is a large aluminum drain on the eaves of the second floor. Greatly affects the appearance of the green tile earth wall The master also specially built a box frame Wrap the aluminum with antiseptic wood Solved our worries At the same time, in order to increase the sealing of the second-floor bedroom We are on the walls around Sound insulation cotton is installed between the inner and outer layers have to say This sound insulation Cotton is really a tiger's ass Even though we are almost fully armed The fine hair that can reach directly into the respiratory tract Or the skin is tingling like a needle Must hurry After cleaning We follow the footsteps of our master Paint now ! I'm a painter. Choose a water-based paint with a wood glaze color Less formaldehyde than paint Not much taste All for healthy living. Brown and yellow color combination In order to better integrate with the earth wall below No separation between the beginning and the end When the masters had removed part of the outer ground box frame We decided to install light strips around the eaves. Height of three floors Plus, I'm a few centimeters shorter. The shaking feeling during installation was so great that I didn't dare to look down The light strip color is warm white Not too cold or too warm It's not wrong to be conservative After delaying two issues The expected finished product of the second floor A 360- degree shot with no blind spots How does it feel See you in the comments section Best Pig Bottom paving cement sand ash Picky eater Blooming for Love Finding the Ground Picky eaters in the north Autumn round eyes dry the action Close the flue Rest against the wall I should have found someone . Just fix it, the master will fix it. bricks magic ? The wood is not long enough Connect with two This is another deal . Fix in time feel pretty good I want to be beaten by you Prevent the other party from taking it home I hate walking with him. Go to the old homestead to move the slate You ask why the cutting is done? Of course. Arrange the floor tiles Real floor tiles Can't afford red peach bricks Standard bricks will also be What other bicycles do you want ? Be sure to pay attention to control Otherwise, if water accumulates, it will get clogged. It looks good with my height of 1.8 meters . Arrange the railings in white Safety first after all Why hammer him? Nails are nailed into wood chips It was to let him in more. This railing is a little different. The lower part is fixed with cement The cut before the flower ruler is small and straight Make a little arc change Bought some flowers at the flower market Too many varieties If anyone wants to ask the name, please answer it one by one With the tender smile between the mini eyebrows, my heart is moved Forgot to put his coat on. The moment is compared with the forest behind More powerful Let's take a look at the position first Raise it a bit to make it look better The other half of summer has passed I am on the left and right This is the final look . Come drink water Flowers will appear when you open the door Xin Qing Mei Mei Da i feel it's you open the light shine and thank you you are me push you push you want you now You can remodel the living room . If you don't want to clean the living room , But you see, this is really not the top Because I want to be famous even though I 'm not famous yet Let's put up the ceiling first . The master 's voice is still very good No half effort And I built it But we still do n't want to Look This is the steamed bun we added to the chef you know what it is for ? All given boards We use the cheapest one. I have no money in my pocket now . I wonder if you guys in front of the screen can quickly get medical treatment. The master fell to the ground and the lake surface was above our heads . So we have to start to break down our lives Skill Protagonist Really in hand When you are lazy because you don't make enough money Come and experience it Ouch, it's so dark Something is missing Sofa Peace The whole world will come running take a picture so i try to wish me truly got a dish beside me Say your sugar sugar you know she will know to just you to some May everyone be healthy and everything be good Step by step to success and no worries about food and clothing Good things happen Red and hot Light the fire Red and hot Make the bed A large family Wealth rolling in and splendor Make money For example, you are in the 10th grade class . About our company We have released Sanyang Kaitai Because we live here , not upstairs There's a guy upstairs Although there is no building material car But some people still don't need it Wow, so cool. Need to get oops I know you want to see Hey, this lamp is pretty. Awesome design Design Nan , there is a long avatar here Take out for dinner Yeah They are all beautiful, for sure. With shape like this style Uh wow This flower is more beautiful than the one in the video . That's the time . Plant more. Plant some and some corn will be diluted Wow, that's right brother 's code Okay, this is Maotai's fried flowers. By the time of July 2 , do you see it now? When the sun sets , I'll chop down the trees It would be nice if the sunset came through a little more. Oh wow This is my area. Delicious good not good Sister-in-law Come down to eat Oh, here I come