Once the most powerful man in the known world, following Stoic principles. Unlike many Roman Emperors, he did not indulge getting drunk on wine and watching sadistic Marcus Aurelius wanted to fulfill the task So, he cared deeply about fulfilling his purpose. But to do so, he had to care less about the about. And these things are many. One of the essential concepts in Stoicism do not control, which Epictetus' Enchiridion Most (if not all) things beyond our own actions Does that mean we should renounce the world? Not necessarily. But the Stoics believed that we should be things and that we create an unnecessary burden When life hurts, it often means that we care by doing so, we let them control us and play Then, we blame the puppeteers for pulling them to do so. But if we stop caring about them, they lose For Marcus Aurelius, being unperturbed by to cope with the many responsibilities and on the task he believed he was given by the For Epictetus, it meant freedom. For other people, not being moved by external way to focus on goals that do matter. And for others, it could simply be a path When life hurts, what are the things we should And how do we do it? This video is an exploration and free interpretation care less about things that aren't worth By the way, you'll find more Stoic wisdom contains my collected works on remaining calm You'll find a link in the description. In his Meditations, Marcus Aurelius repeatedly future. In each category, the ancient Roman Emperor care too much about them, or in the wrong For clarity and structure, this essay is subdivided The future As Seneca once stated: we suffer more in our our thoughts are the source of our suffering. When it comes to the future, our imagination of what could happen (but probably never will). Beforehand, we think of ways to handle possible of 'not knowing how the future will eventually In some instances, what happens is what we But in many other instances, Fortune surprises have anticipated. For example, we could have spent years preparing right before the first day of our twilight us just a few more months to live. The possibility of such events leads many but the worst as well! And what if the Third World War breaks out? What if I lose all my money? Such adverse outcomes are very well possible. But as long as they aren't happening in these events simply aren't happening (at The future only bothers us because we think mind. Marcus Aurelius wrote that it's not the that of the present alone. It's not the future that hurts us but how The misery of the future happens in the present. And ironically, it's not the future unfolding already present. The misery of the future is our worrying about When we care too much about future events, them in our imagination, letting them dictate So, what does Marcus Aurelius say about caring First, let's consider the following quote: Never let the future disturb you. You will meet it, if you have to, with the against the present. End quote. He pointed out that if he could cope with He told himself not to picture everything with the situation at hand. When he focused on the present, he realized And if that's the case, why wouldn't he This attitude resembles the idea of 'Amor with trust that we'll be able to get through (2) The past Marcus Aurelius reminded himself of how fast infinite beyond our grasp. The past, as the future, is a realm we cannot What's gone is gone, and unless we invent about it. Marcus Aurelius stated, and I quote: Remember that man lives only in the present, his life is either past and gone, or not yet Short, therefore, is man's life, and narrow End quote. Despite the narrowness of our lives, which often overly occupied with these areas that future and the past. Marcus Aurelius stated that the past "signifies It's not that events that have happened or that we cannot learn from past events. It's just that we cannot work with the past, And often, our memories of the past are scrambled, limited. We rely on recollections from personal perspectives So, the past is not only out of reach; our Yet, we keep caring about past events, often the pain they caused us. Some believe that by thinking about the past, But that's an illusion. The past is gone. All we try to control are our thoughts about to return. "I wish I could have done this differently," But they wish for the impossible. Nothing can be gained from such thoughts, Instead of focusing on the past events in reaction toward them. We cannot control past events. Most likely, we also couldn't prevent them But we can control how we position ourselves Initially, we might consider the past unfortunate. We might have had difficult childhoods or business ventures. But, according to Marcus Aurelius, the nature counts is how we handle them. He stated: It's unfortunate that this has happened. No. It's fortunate that this has happened and by the present or frightened of the future. It could have happened to anyone. But not everyone could have remained unharmed Why treat the one as a misfortune rather than Can you really call something a misfortune Or do you think something that's not against But you know what its will is. Does what's happened keep you from acting prudence, honesty, humility, straightforwardness, nature to fulfill itself? End quote. Interestingly enough, Marcus Aurelius doesn't He believed we could learn from the past by go, repeating themselves, so we can "extrapolate" (3) The present Marcus Aurelius frequently mentions that the narrow field we've access to. From the present, we can stare into the endless of the future. Marcus Aurelius encouraged himself to stick But even when we let go of the past and minimize very well care too much about things not worthy We are often dissatisfied with the ways life And when things don't go as we wish, we But according to Marcus Aurelius, being emotionally pointless. How the world around us unfolds itself is Yet, we tend to get disturbed because we don't happen doesn't happen. Marcus Aurelius stated that we shouldn't He compared people who struggle with Fortune it's no use, as we can't avoid what the We cannot stop people from wanting to fight happening; we cannot prevent our bodies from In the same way, we cannot force the world that the people we're attracted to are also beings have the same shots at life. It's just not possible. Yet, we spend a lot of time and energy resisting any means in our arsenal. We're angry because we don't have what we don't like, and thus, the present moment at Fortune's every whim. Or, reversely, we're so enamored with the We're afraid to lose what we have, so again, But from our total entanglement in all around unable to see what's truly up to us: our Marcus Aurelius saw the law of nature as our anger about it, we're nothing more than We must accept the ways of nature, embrace of wasting our energy being disgusted by or A way to accept the present he wrote in the we should focus on what we have, not what I quote: Treat what you don't have as nonexistent. Look at what you have, the things you value them if you didn't have them. But be careful. Don't feel such satisfaction that you start to lose them. End quote. Nevertheless, accepting one's circumstances significant hardships and life gives us lemons Can't we just have a break? But to Marcus Aurelius, adversity is not an pigs. He argues it's an opportunity to "practice philosophy to one's life. The art of living isn't about how amazing as they're unreliable, weak, fickle, and It's about how we face the events we meet; to the Stoics. As Marcus Aurelius stated: Because to me the present is a chance for short, the art that men share with gods. Both treat whatever happens as wholly natural; and easily handled. Thank you for watching.