Today I'm challenging my three younger The challenge will be made up of three But I will have a free pass to the dessert see who's worthy to face off against me. And if one of them is lucky enough to beat entire day and be their personal private Oh, let's go. We'll start with round one. The appetizer round. Gentlemen, open your Oh man. For the appetizer round the baskets contain You've got 20 minutes on the clock. Your time starts. Now for the appetizer round. I'm going to make some kebab type thing. I'm really hoping I can face off against so he can be my private chef for a day. He's the oldest and I'm the youngest, so I'd years. You're going to have to get through I'm going to be making a tuna tartare and watermelon cubes as well. I'm actually not I'm going to take it out a couple of these I will be making a tuna watermelon poke So I'm going to scrape out all the rice, add the tuna and see if I can add I fractured my wrist. Does it put me at a disadvantage? Yeah. Well, I use it as an excuse. No, unless I lose. So I've never used molasses before, but it sauce. So I'm adding it to the yogurt, and with some yogurt, dill and molasses. I think what I'm going to do is make an I'm hoping I can get some of the oaky flavor mix that in with a little mayo. Ten minutes left, guys. Ten minutes left. Ah, just because I have it here and I don't into my sauce. I'm only going to do a little it. So now I'm going to cut up my tuna. I'm going to just take off the end here to And then I'm going to use one of my nice they're all the same size into my tuna. I go with a little bit of soy, then hit it I think I'm going to wait to add the flavors of the soy corrupting the sweet You guys have five minutes left. Five minutes left and you're done. Five minutes is not a lot of time, but about 10s each side. Time for some Pam. Oh, let's listen for a sizzle. I'm pressing it down to make sure it gets Nick, I don't have my heatproof hands yet. I'm going to go for my second flip. That's hot. Two minutes left. Get the food on the plates. So I know Nick then I'm going to sprinkle it on top when My knife skills are hurting a little bit But I'm doing my best I can to dice this There's only a few seconds left, so I'm I have a nice mix of watermelon and tuna. Come in with the spring onions. Five, four, three, two, one. Hands up! Hands up. Looking good, guys. Looking good. Good work, boys. Oh, guys, I forgot to put Oh, what is that? Molasses and dill? Yep. That's two of your ingredients. Guys, congratulations. The dishes look fantastic. And honestly, I'm surprised you pulled it With that said, I've got a surprise judge Mom and dad will be judging this round. So our first dish here is this tuna and The tuna, which would be the watermelon. I like know if I'm digging into that? The next dish is this tuna, avocado tartare. They've placed a raw egg yolk on the top. I can actually pop it for you guys if you The final dish is this watermelon poke bowl. And they unfortunately forgot to add their It's an interesting. Combination of flavors. So now you've got a decision to make. Are you going to eliminate dish number one, The first one is quite creative. The one in the middle. I don't know what the I get a little nervous when I see that raw Third one, I just don't know. They're all look pretty good. Unfortunately, it looks like we're going to Thanks a lot, Mom and Dad. That was. One handed. That's impressive. Cameron, please say bye to your competitors. Say bye to Mom and dad. Pack your things. It's a pleasure. Well, fun. Good luck. Bye, Mom and Dad. Good luck, guys. Have a good life. Have a good one. Bye, Cam. Will. Pete, Congratulations on moving to the One of you will have the opportunity to cook for an entire day. Now, I've got quite the surprise for the Feel free to reveal the entree round. What the. How did you get that thing here? This is a live Alaskan king crab that we If you guys are going to be worthy enough to be able to cook a beast like this for the I'm putting 20 minutes on the clock starting You guys split that crab down the middle and Let's go Right side. Go right side. I got left. All right. Should we break this You would like that? Every man for himself. These legs are extremely spiky. So I'm just trying to do this carefully so Cam's lid on looking good. So I've decided that I'm going to make a I think what I'm going to do is cook the in because it's already boiling and I'm Also, it's going to get that flavor from the For my dish, I'm going to do a king crab I've never worked with King Crab before and But stick to the basics, but keep it refined I used to make waffles every morning for So I think I'll have him make me a nice That's a lot of confidence I'm hearing out Put him back in his place. I'm going to slice up this bacon, which is flavor into my final dish. I'm starting with some leftover rice. I think we ordered Indian last night, so that's all right. It goes with the color of Is either of you guys paying any attention Is it done? I don't know, because getting a I'm going to help them out and see if it's Take a little bite of that. I need to get depends on it. I'm going to steal the two Well, if you got the claws, I'm getting the You guys have ten minutes left. You better hurry up. Oh, geez. My fried rice is looking pretty good. Rather fried, if you will. I'm just going to toss in some butter just to creaminess. Always taste your food. Oh, yeah. My pasta is in. I'm going to start getting together the That'll be that beautiful, creamy base of my With so much stuff going on, it's easy to Here. I'm gonna get this dancing in the pan, want to overdo it. You have five minutes If your hands aren't up and your plates disqualify you. I really hope this pasta is I think that I'm going to take this head off fried rice in. I'm opening up this leg here, in my rice. I'm making Uncle Roger proud and Msg I'm going to grab my fried rice here and You know, Uncle Roger doesn't like to put but the rest look pretty good to me. It's actually pretty flavorful. We'll have to see what the judge thinks. It's time to pull the pasta. I really don't I'm going to go straight with that pasta much not on heat and go right in with that pasta water that I reserved. I'm going to add it slowly in and whisk until looking for. Pete 30s left, get it on the I'm just chopping up my chives here and I'll Five, four, three, two, one. Hands up. You're done. I really wish I had a got that all done in time. It's like a good Not bad yourself, Pete. Will the dishes look fantastic? So it's time to bring in our next judge. Good to see you guys again. How are we Welcome, bro. Love you. Is this new? Oh, how the turntables cam, you against me in the dessert challenge. All right, let's start tasting. Our first dish is a king crab carbonara. Right off the bat, it looks fantastic. He didn't put any pepper. Besides that, I think he's pretty much Honestly. Really Good. The sauce is not chunky at all. There's no cooked egg in it. It's all smooth. It's all. A very tasty. This next dish is a king crab I really like the plating. I love how they put it in the head of the Very good. Quite flavorful. The only thing I'd say is that it's a tad on dish. I've thought hard about these two You both did a fantastic job, but the winner Okay, let's go. Well, say goodbye to your competitors. Please pack your things. Hell of a See you, Will. Bye, Will. See you guys. And then there were two. Pete, if you beat me in this challenge right hours and be your private chef. Are you prepared for that? You better The dessert round will be a ten minute I have no idea what's in these baskets. Are you ready? Yep. Open your basket. What for? The dessert round the baskets contain Oreos. Pete, I hope you're thinking about hit you with one last twist. If you so choose. I will allow you to bring back both of the round. Or you can do it by yourself. There's no catch. No. Well, this is a no brainer. The boys are back. Woo! You give me one hour, chef. And with that, your ten minutes starts now. Will, I need you to open the Rice Krispie Get those moving. Cam, I need you to preheat 350. So what we're going to do is we're cheesecake, and then we're going to turn Come on, get it together. Cam, I need you to Yes, chef. Will, I need you to get a gummy bears go. Yes, chef. I'm going to take care of grounding all base for the bottom of our cheesecake. I've never seen them come together as such a have offered this to Pete. I don't want to I know he's going to make me do so much You're damn right I am. Remember that time you made me grass? I'm going to be doing an elevated take on It was one of my favorite dishes growing up And the second I saw the Oreos inside that This is my dust for the top of the dirt and One component of my dish is already done. I'm going to melt these in the microwave. will be what goes inside. In addition to the scrapings of these worms in. I'm not sure they're going to turn heat going. Give it your best shot, boy. Oh, for sure. Now that my chocolate is plastic cup and begin to pour that chocolate I'm basically using this cup as a mold to I'll dump off that excess and into the This goes. That'll stay in there until it Five minutes left, guys. Just five minutes left. We're mixing in our ingredients that are I'm trying to get this into a really nice I'm going to use these Rice Krispies tricky. It may not look like it's come going to be delicious. I think my cup is all set now. The hardest part actually taking it off the I have to be so careful with this. This looks better than I could have ever But I've got to heat this knife to cut the Watch how simply and easily this knife cuts Perhaps one of the most satisfying things And this will be my cup. Take a note also of the cleanliness of my It looks like a bunch of mad scientists with So you've chopped some almonds and opened You're doing great, Chef. Less chirping, several layers to the earth. There are going to be several layers to my First, I'll go in with some of this cool I'll go in with my first layer of Oreos as Then again, with another layer of Cool Whip. And once I've done that, another layer of Just a final touch of Cool Whip to finish. I want to brush up the sides with cocoa I want this to look like a legit pot that Then I'll finish it with a real basil plant, into my plant, and I'll finish with a tiny of the dirt behind. Behind. Good cam. Layer that in. And the moment of We're going to go down and actually plate plate here. Beautiful. As a final layer, we're going to go on top Now, Will's made a really nice sauce, so I'm As the person is enjoying the dish, they'll each bite of cheesecake. Five, four, three, two, one. Hands up. Pete, are you happy with your Yes, I am. You know what? We win and lose together as a team, and I Let's find out. Manny, get in here. Come on. So the first dish I have right here Looks like there's a little bit of whipped zest, some sort of sauce scattered That's not at all what I thought it would Let's try this plant looking dessert. This dish is a dirt and worms. And there's even a plant growing out at the Not gonna lie. This is pretty creative. This is really good. The plant pot is kind Both fantastic desserts, But I think I have Today's winner. Is. Pete. Let's go. Let's. Woohoo! Yes. What the fuck? Look at that. I know, but that's terrible. That is going to be a good first bite of the