There are wildlands where nature still conceals The Alps. A colossal mass of rock, Hundreds of 3,000 meter peaks hold millions Steep slopes. Patches of rock exposed to the winds. Air that is truly low on oxygen. How have living creatures adapted in this world where the temperatures How are they able to mate. Raise their young. Conquer new territories Cover vast distances? How do they withstand From the highest mountain peaks These are the astonishing stories of animals at one An epic voyage This is Italy, the Dolomites. This rock is an ancient coral reef. It was pushed out of the sea Petrified coral at 3,000 meters. Winter is almost over. There is nothing to eat. Many animals are weak. This young deer is looking This is the worst time of the year. A she-wolf is on the hunt. However, she is not alone. She has her family all around her. She-wolf leads the pack with her mate, This young deer isn't easy prey, On her signal, the action can begin. This young deer has never seen a wolf, It's in his genes. He has a trick to escape. He draws them right into his herd. That's exactly what She-wolf had planned. Now, she can identify This young deer was able by sacrificing one of his own. A very effective response to wolf attacks. Not the most glorious strategy perhaps, It removes sick deer That is the wolf's role At this time of year, More ears to hear any dangers. More eyes to see them coming. To battle against the cold, they put certain parts of their body and lower their heart rate. Conserving energy is the key to survival This wolf pack has just captured its prey This is their first meal in days. Excited by the food, the eldest son tests the limits He challenges his father, the alpha male. He must follow the rules. Parents eat before their cubs. However, the son does not want to obey. He must wait his turn just like the others. Wolves only have Brown bears. This one smelled and he's hungry. Alpha is in no mood to back off. Normally, he would have retreated like She-wolf. Today, Alpha wants to show his offspring Alpha wants to stop the bear from eating and harass him until he leaves. Brown bears aren't afraid of wolves. He's the strongest and he knows it. Alpha is no longer able to lead. Immediately, Everyone submits to the new leader but not she-wolf. She will not abandon When wolves find a partner, In the Alps, finding food in the winter To manage it, some animals have come up This is the Gran Paradiso Massif. There is hunger in the valley. Most of the trees have been stripped. No more fruit, no more seeds, and the insects are hidden under the bark. To avoid dying of starvation, some small birds have come up They gather in groups of several species. They start by looking Whoever finds one alerts the others. Now, they can all take their positions At the top, is the crossbill. They keep a lookout. Below them, willow tits break pine cones Lower down on the branches, search for the tiny spiders At the bottom, coal tits and blue tits, are getting excited All these different species have found by helping one another. At the first sign of danger, When they are fed, to protect themselves A snowstorm. It quickly becomes brutally cold. A few hours of this can be lethal. What protection do they have? Some have specially adapted coats. They are capable of withstanding Some prefer to spend They maintain their body temperature Their heart beats once a minute, A very long time. Except when they're cold. Marmots know that the more of them To have a lot of marmots, This brings us to another challenge how to find a mate when spring arrives. Some have found a rather unusual way, mountain speed dating. This is the Beaufortain Massif. Once a year there's a gathering here, on a precise date known only by the population After nine months of deep sleep, this young male has just woken up to find a mate. This bachelor knows exactly A peat bog three kilometers away. Why is he in such a hurry? Where he's going, there will only be one female Everyone's going there at the same time, so only the first to arrive A female. The idea is to grab her Oh, it's a male. This is it, we're here. A melted spot in the middle of the ice. Look at that beauty. Those golden eyes. That brown skin. She's the one. He's sure of it. Now she must accept him on her back. The secret is to show off She's moving too much. Now, the problem is this gang of suitors who will stop at nothing It might be better to look elsewhere. Here, can he cut in? The young male and yet he is not defeated. In a place full of eggs, He will have offspring, Common frogs do not live in pairs. They couple up for one week a year As the snow melts, Suddenly, throughout the landscape, delicate, defenseless creatures To protect their little ones, parents make They dig impenetrable dens underground. They build nests on the sheer cliff faces. For those that live on open ground, Their young are vulnerable everywhere. This is the Ecrins National Park. Here, the Ibex have developed This is an adult female. She is on duty for her community. This young ibex has just been born. He is not the only one. All the births have taken place The matriarch's job The golden eagle. Female ibex keep watch in groups A kind of high-altitude nursery. The alarm is raised. Too fast. Despite their dedication, During the warmer months, Raising the young isn't their thing. They prefer doing nothing really, apart from While the male works tirelessly, Educating their young. A young kid and his mother one that will lead them For the last 50 years, all the mothers in this region to carry out what appears to be The young kid is learning the mountain and is enthralled The incredible grip of his hooves. He tests his abilities However, he has no idea what is in store. He follows his mother The kid suddenly realizes What are they doing here? They are on the dam at Lake Cingino. A wall 50 meters high. The kid doesn't know it yet, but he is a master of balance. Why did his mother bring him here? To reach the mineral salts The kid has conquered his fear, and taste Their concave hooves act like ultra-powerful, suckers that stick to the rock face. Their sense of balance Little Ibex has just learned something He will return here every year All the mothers here have passed on since the dam has existed. For the kid, it's the beginning In a few months, he will be weaned and ready He will go with the males, and when his horns have grown, he will be able like a proper adult. The education of offspring The main obligation is the length of time, just four months to teach them Most parents spend considerable time What about their young? Do they give the same Do the young look after their elders Thanks to advances in knowledge, on a world whose richness The world of trees. In the great beech forests of the Alps, we have recently uncovered that only exists in fables. The story of the immortal tree stump. Hidden under moss, of a giant tree It must surely have died by now, but it hasn't. However, it has no more leaves How is it still alive? Science has uncovered the answer. The surrounding trees have decided to help and keep it alive. They give it food. Who are these kind trees? First, is the inner circle. The direct descendants of the stump. They grew from its fruits. Further out are its grandchildren There are even trees nor even the same species. They all form Why have they protected it from death? A useless old stump. Perhaps they care about it. Affection from one tree to another. The story of this immortal tree stump Why do trees help each other? One tree on its own cannot protect itself It can't conserve the water it needs but a forest can. The trees depend on one another. Together they can live for hundreds, They bring benefits to a considerable number They act as homes, food stalls, shelters, and restaurants. This generosity is the fruit of one of nature's The solidarity between trees. With these model parents we might start believing in an ideal world where everyone treats That is not the case. Some parents do nothing for their young Let's take a look His name is Blue. Behind the facade lies the greatest To start off with, he has good intentions. Seduction starts with coupling up. Once she has been fertilized, the mother seeks out She deposits her egg who becomes a caterpillar. Who will feed and protect it? Now, begins the great con trick Operation Scent Disguise. He takes the scent of an ant larva. This is it. Intrigued by the scent, What is this young ant larva doing here? Back to the anthill, quick! The trick has worked. The shortsighted ant Now the ants feed the trickster by mouth, day after day, month after month, The baby turns white and grows big. The ants don't even notice In spring, the metamorphosis occurs and on the crucial day The scent disguise immediately vanishes. He only has seconds before the ants turn so he gets out quickly. He unfurls his wings and that's it. The imposter There are those that take advantage There are those who sacrifice everything There are those who fly solo like bears. Even if it itches. What is the best strategy To act alone or in a group? Bears are solitary, like their beloved raspberries, After digesting them, they disperse their seeds in their droppings. They help the raspberries There are also creatures that depend on one another. The next story is barely believable. It is a story of an alliance The tree is the Swiss pine. It grows right on the limit The hardiest of trees. It can live for hundreds of years but it has a huge problem. Its cones do not open on their own. Their fruits are imprisoned within. This means a Swiss pine This is where the bird comes in. A rather peculiar bird at that. The nutcracker. The nutcracker has Small ones, medium ones, He knows exactly how many there are That one is a medium. Where do they go? There. A little one, it can stay there. A big one, there. That one, on the side. Mid-September is the beginning By instinct, the nutcracker heads The Bernoises, home to a community At this time of the year, This is what the nutcracker is here for. First, to detach the cones. Put them on the block. Then to get to work. His powerful beak is the perfect tool. With surgical precision, He stores them behind his tongue. In his crop, he can carry 30 at a time There is a method for hiding them well. First, dig a hole. Then, bury them deep. No, not that one. One, two, three. What he doesn't realize is that this wood is also a magnet They are waiting for the right moment. The nutcracker covers the hole and that's it. The nutcracker works relentlessly He picks, transports, and stashes As soon as his back is turned, They rob him Faced with the theft of his pine nuts, He covers many kilometers He even hides them The good news is that he forgets That's how Swiss pines produce offspring and how they move around. A tree that teams up with a bird We now know that helping one another The other force is competition. Until now, it was believed that survival but we are beginning to change our minds. Competition is everywhere, but at its most visible A stag gathers his does. A rival appears Will the victor take the does? Officially, yes. However, while the two challengers a young pacifist begins his courtship. He manages to woo a doe without fighting. With all due respect to the two fighters, the rule that might makes right In reality, in more extreme environments, competition is less decisive because it has one great drawback, it uses up a lot of energy. In the mountains, energy is a commodity As soon as the ibex rams begin their duels. The issue is the same. The marmots are preparing for sleep. The hares are changing color. One day the great white blanket is back. Winter descends on the world. Those who are not prepared Wolves are among the best-adapted for the grueling life Their power comes What happens if it disappears? It's time to return to the story We must go back a year That accident marked that changed her life in the Alps. She-wolf's companion and She-wolf hasn't summoned Her place in the pack The absence of the other female has caused She is ready to have cubs. She is the new alpha female. What will she do? If she returns to her pack, She must leave. Why does she make this choice? It's because she isn't really alone. In a few weeks, she will bring In a wolf pack, only the alpha female If she stayed, She-wolf was born in these mountains but her instinct is telling her to leave. As far away as possible. To find a new land for her future family. Where to? What lies beyond these mountains? She's yet to find out. She-wolf heads north. To avoid any encounter with other wolves, She-wolf is not the first. Many wolves leave their packs They travel vast distances. Hundreds or even thousands of kilometers. Scientists can follow their movements She-wolf leaves the Dolomites in March In a few days, Then, she turns west toward the Tyrol. She only has three weeks to go. Then, she will give birth. A lone wolf is never really alone. She has many eyes on her. Like the lammergeier. What is this huge bird after? The lammergeier is returning to the Alps Like wolves, People saw them Was it the eyes circled in red? The strange beard? With a wingspan of three meters, the largest vulture in Europe This male is six years old. He was born in the Mercantour Massif Every year he covers thousands What is he looking for? For now, he is following She-wolf. Is he waiting for her to die from hunger? When it comes to diet, as you will see, the lammergeier Now, we know why the lammergeier Her nose. His efforts are finally rewarded. The lammergeier Its diet does not contain flesh or skin. He has his own special recipe. First, he breaks the carcass Then, he takes the chosen morsel drops it delicately on a protruding rock, Dinner is served. Broken bones. That's all the bearded vulture eats. His stomach contains in the living world. He only eats fresh bones, She-wolf keeps moving From the Zillertal in the Tyrol, Then, she enters Switzerland and passes through Saint-Gotthard She skirts the imposing Matterhorn. In only a few weeks, She is now in France, She's exhausted She must find somewhere to rest. She will soon give birth. Wolves give birth in the family's den. Dug by the ancestors It lies at the heart of their territory. It is passed down She-wolf does not have a territory. She has to find a nice dry spot Halfway up a hill A hole under an old tree stump. Perfect. She gave birth during the night. A litter of eight cubs. Two of the little ones died at birth. She ate them Many other animals Foxes, crows, martens, wild boar. A lynx, the hardest predator She can smell it, but can't see it. Lynx can lay in wait for hours. It is waiting for her She knows it, but she's hungry. For three weeks she has eaten nothing If she was still with a pack, she could leave her cubs When the alpha mother gives birth, The lynx is giving up for today, but it could be back at any time and kill her young She-wolf is trapped and there is A nightmare for a lone she-wolf. What about the lynx? Three hungry little ones She's a mother and works Protecting and feeding her young. In the 20th century, lynx totally disappeared from the Alps. Then, several survivors Thankfully, the plan worked. Today, lynx can be found The cubs are now two months old. It's time to discover the world She-wolf must be careful Little adventurer is the most dangerous. Led by his curiosity, Their predatory instincts They will not learn At two months, the cubs are ready Their mother gradually reduces the amount and begins to feed them instead Prey hunted by the pack. None of that is possible for She-wolf. A wolf's education Nothing is out of bounds for a young wolf. He has to have his own experiences and learn to handle Like learning how to recognize She-wolf has found a new den, but there still isn't anything to eat This is the most difficult time. She is running out of milk. The more they need, They lick her mouth but her stomach is empty. She's got to find a solution. There's one possibility. Sheep. They are easy to catch. However, if she wants to eat a sheep, she will have to overcome Humans. The first people to live in the Alps four thousand years ago. They were shepherds. This was the beginning Today, in order to protect their animals, some people However, there is a man He is a considerable challenger for any wolf This man has chosen Matthias Korneli. This year, Matthias has agreed to take a flock in the most dangerous To face the wolf packs of Vago. Last year, 35 sheep were killed here. Local farmers They have spent the winter and now they need to eat soft, Matthias' mission and protect them His challenge, to return at the end of the summer Something no shepherd The wolves are back. She-wolf is waiting for her chance. A single sheep The high plateaus of Vago between the Lago delle querce is just To accompany him on his mission, he has a crack team He has two types of dogs. Herding dogs, light and fast, and those that guard the flock, Raga is a female Beauceron. She loves her job She spends her time looking out for sheep and guiding them back. She does it all to please Matthias. Leo is a little Pyrenean shepherd, They can count on his vigilance He doesn't miss a thing. The elderly Kay is retired. She doesn't work anymore, but everyone still pretends Soon, she won't be able to make Matthias is leading his flock where the highest number of attacks This is the Valley of peril. This has a purpose. They must be clear right from the start. Matthias and his dogs are here and they're not afraid. She-wolf has heard the message but she has sensed a greater danger. A wolf pack is close by. They are many and ready to attack. The guard dogs take their positions. Thor takes the higher ground. He watches everything, smells everything, hears everything. Rea goes into the middle of the flock. She is attached to the sheep and mothers them Mora takes care of the outer areas. Sometimes she ventures far from the flock to leave her scent, mark her territory, and challenge any wolf What about Marsden, the young Molossus? He patrols their territory The Wolves work as a team. They observe and surround their prey. The scent of the sheep The wolves aren't looking for a fight. They prefer to find food If the dogs hold their ground, The first meeting They will remember the scents Next time, they'll pass them by. Matthias and his dogs They act instinctively like a pack thanks to the genes The wolf. This is Matthias' pack. Since he's been doing this job, and has only lost three of them to wolves. Matthias is never for To him, all life is sacred, The wolves are back. He'll handle it. She-wolf hasn't come back. She is still looking for food. At ten weeks old, He is drawn to anything that moves. Now, he's on the trail An ibex bone, all for himself. Personalities are forged during play. There are leaders and there are followers. Those that give up easily, and some that never let go. She-wolf continues her journey She crosses the Vago, the Chartreuse Massif, She is looking for a peaceful place Today she picked up a urine scent. This is a sign that marks a boundary She-wolf has just entered They are close. Wolves will kill if they spot an intruder, but there is another danger. They are coming up from the valley. There are many of them too. Humans and wolves do not get along. She-wolf knows. It's in her genes. She senses that she must flee. She has reached the end of the road. Behind her, In front of her, an unknown world. We now know that many wolves They move at night. Without making a sound. Since they have returned, the trails of many different wolves They cross anything in their way, and even high-speed railway lines. They take astonishing risks. Nothing can stop them. She-wolf has managed to cross She's found a new No scents of humans. No dogs. It's a land of plenty, with abundant food. She-wolf the Mercantour National Park, a manmade sanctuary It is a new territory but there is another presence, the lammergeier. He has returned and he has started a family. She-wolf has succeeded but winter is coming. She's going to need some help. It's time for her to call out A wolf's call is so powerful. It can be heard for dozens of kilometers. Tonight, no one hears her. Far away in another valley, a young wolf has heard her calls. They meet in the early hours. She-wolf has traveled 1,300 kilometers. She left the Dolomites in the winter, and crossed almost the entire range She gave birth in the Mont Blanc Massif, then turned south, and settled in the Alps of Haute Provence. Several weeks later, She-wolf has started a new pack She-wolf's journey Wolves almost disappeared Only a few isolated families Then, in the 1990s, began to reconquer the territories By traveling, they gradually repopulated the mountains. Today, they number almost 2,000. Wolves are the symbol What can we learn from all these stories? What have Before answering that, those who were there who have lived in the mountains the plants. How do they survive for months, in darkness and freezing cold? During their short time in the light, how do they share out Two thousand species under the watchful eye of Pascal, They have developed a number of strategies to endure the extreme conditions Between one and two thousand meters high, To assert its dominance, the Jacob's Ladder colonizes entire areas The yellow rattle latches and draws out its sap to feed itself. The most dreaded of them all, Here, quite clearly, We assume that's how nature works but that's not entirely true. Up above the clouds, Up there, where nothing else can grow. When the poverty of the soil is compounded the rules change and life reveals Moss campion is a plant Inside, the temperature a microclimate that allows Like this blue gentian Each little flower not to kill it, The strangest of them all The mysterious rock jasmine This one is perhaps a hundred years old. It may appear to be a single plant, but in fact it shelters a multitude Bacteria, mites, with the rock Jasmine. It is itself an entire ecosystem These plants demonstrate of the natural world. When there is nothing left, but those that held one another. The tougher the conditions, the more vital it becomes That's the lesson Here, they all know it. The female ibex that help each other The mischievous birds The deer that keep warm The lammergeier that rely The trees that give to their elders. The wolves that sacrifice everything The Swiss pines that rely The wolves that overcome to share their life with other wolves. The men who rely on their dogs All of them know That the mountain That's why they help each other.