Over the last decade, the world of spaceflight We've seen private companies burst onto now at the point where scenes like this have Through these incredible advancements in rocket of getting into space drastically reduce. Once a rocket becomes reusable, the cost of more important - and one of the largest costs In this video we're going to look at the all the way from the ground and into a SpaceX We're also going to look at what SpaceX and how they plan to start producing their For SpaceX and their Falcon 9 rocket, they The liquid oxygen needs to be cooled to cryogenic more into the rocket. Although the liquid oxygen makes up more than by far the cheapest of the two fuels, coming RP1 on the other hand is a little bit less When SpaceX were first starting out with the kilogram of RP1. After renegotiating, they were able to lower of jet fuel, at around 70 cents per kilogram. Overall, the cost to fill an entire Falcon But realistically, the Falcon 9 will never stage has to be built for each flight. Because of this, the fuel costs will remain But for SpaceX's Starship rocket, the fuel In just a couple of years, SpaceX turned a site for their Starship rocket. With each and every test, SpaceX goes through But what fuel does Starship use and how do In order to answer this we need to look at With their Starship rocket, they want to take they can set up bases and begin colonizing It takes an enormous amount of energy to get fuel while we were there, it would cut the That is why Starship will use methane and Both of these propellants can be found on and the oxygen in the subsurface ice. Methane is also a perfect choice since it's So how do SpaceX get liquid methane to their Liquefied natural gas which is mostly made the Earth's surface. Mining companies use off-shore and onshore these reservoirs. At this point, the LNG still contains nitrogen, to a treatment facility where these components Once the methane is separated from the other liquefaction facility to be cooled. The methane which is still a gas at this point, into a liquid. Once the methane is in liquid form, it takes This is why cryogenic propellants are used as much in as possible. After the liquefaction process, the liquid it's ready to be shipped. The nearest LNG facility for SpaceX is in Brownsville Texas, just 30km away from their launch site. From there, SpaceX uses the transportation They use state of the art trailers specifically For the trips to Boca Chica, each trailer methane at a pressure of 70psi. Although this is a relatively high pressure, stage than it will be when it's in the Starship closer to 100psi. Once the liquid methane arrives at the SpaceX tank farm where SpaceX stores their propellants. It takes several trailers just to transport deliveries are a common sight between each Although SpaceX are currently outsourcing for propellants to be sourced on site. At the Kennedy Space Center, NASA has their which can liquify up to 265 tonnes of oxygen SpaceX are looking to create a similar setup According to Elon Musk, SpaceX will set up the enormous amounts of energy needed to separate This process involves compressing air to around This liquid air is then passed through various and carbon dioxide which could freeze and In order to separate the air into oxygen, brought up to the boiling point of each element. Since nitrogen has the lowest boiling point which can then be separated from the mix. Then, the argon boils off at -186 degrees This entire process requires a huge amount scale, the economics start to make sense. This is why SpaceX can purchase their liquid 20 cents per kilogram. But with SpaceX planning to build their own farm to power it and make it cost efficient. Alternatively, SpaceX could use the sabatier This would be good practice for SpaceX, since oxygen on Mars. Recently, people have noticed a lot of activity A large crane has been set up and people believe own propellant facility. In order to be more carbon neutral, it makes their own methane and oxygen using renewable And if they can start producing their own cost for each Starship launch. This world of propellant production is a new they develop the skills and technologies to In the past, SpaceX could rely on outsourcing at the Kennedy Space Center. But now that they have their own facility all of these fueling systems from scratch. When testing Starship prototypes at their flare which would be used during each test. Since releasing methane into the atmosphere warming, the flare stack would burn the methane Although this is much less harmful to the during every test was a massive waste of propellant. In order to get around this, SpaceX started which cools it down and turns it back into SpaceX can then store that methane in their Although they don't recycle their liquid more and ship it to the launch site than it Either way, it's exciting to watch SpaceX