(Multicom Jingle) (suspenseful music) - [Narrator] Big Sugar loves this night. (ghouls growling) If it's a bit of a nightmare for parents, the prospect of so much sugar, it's a marketing dream Shovel sugar into my gut Give me the candy motherload Feed me junk till I explode - [Narrator] In the 21st a $4 billion sugar festival. (suspenseful music) - [Witch] Oh, sugar explosion. - [Narrator] Big Sugar Wars were fought over sugar. (explosion booms) - [Man] Other than perhaps gold, no single substances had a greater hand in shaping the history than sugar has. (explosions booming) - [Narrator] Sugar was (woman screaming) We discovered it in places like this American-owned - [Man] Every day they get on that cart, and every day they look at and begin cutting. The arm never stopped. (slow dramatic music) - [Man] In the 18th century, sugar was the target of progressives because it was so (dramatic music) Today we're fighting The obesity epidemic being - [Narrator] Like the tobacco industry, Big Sugar cast doubt over the science. The science linking sugar and obesity, sugar and diabetes, even Like Big Tobacco, the sugar industry has remarkable access to power. - [Man] They're very shrewd, They give magnanimously - [Woman] They behave like Big Tobacco. They need to be treated like Big Tobacco. (gentle music) - [Narrator] This is a story of Big Sugar in all its dark majesty, about how it changed the world, and how it still does, shaping politics, health, and history. Few people have even a glimmering of how a sugar conspiracy (soldier yells) (dramatic music) It's one of history's most famous battles. Here at Quebec in 1759, vanquished the French, and (dramatic music) At least that's the official story. (geese squawking) There is another version of how Canada came to be England's. It's a lost chapter in history. - Stream of popularity-- - [Narrator] The story in the world at the time. It involves the politicians But most of all it involves the (explosions booms) Adam Hochschild has written documenting sugars leading - I think you gotta of the 18th century. And just as oil so much in the world today, what what influence over what areas, what wars are fought, the Sugar was really that (dramatic music) - [Narrator] In the war news of 1759, England was completing its but given sugars importance, - A lot of those wars were really fought over who was gonna control the West Indies because this was the land that, as far as Europeans knew at that time, was the best suited for growing sugar. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] In a series of England attacks and of Guadeloupe and Martinique, France's most valuable possessions. They are considered a To make peace, England must compromise. (slow dramatic music) Denis Vaugeois, a former Quebec is also a Canadian historian, one of the few who have (gentle music) - [Narrator] Documents is based solely on commercial Canada is a backwater with The French sugar islands with Guadeloupe alone producing 43 times more revenue than Canada. Canada, even France didn't want it back. (wolf howling) - [Narrator] In London, the stage is set for a political drama. In the choice between the England's most influential is about to play a fateful role. Historian Philip Jibour profiles The sugar planter, member of parliament, and the man called Alderman - I think that Alderman Beckford could be seen earlier as He was a man of immense wealth based on three generations where in fact he was born. (gentle music) - [Narrator] Sugar has made in the world. He and his fellow planters want no part of the French sugar islands, which would add unwanted competition, and cut into their immense profits. - [Narrator] In 1763, is about to choose between the sugar lobby is at to make sure the vote goes their way. MPs are wined and dined (people chattering) (gentle music) - [Narrator] In Parliament the vote comes and England chooses Canada. Corruption plays a role, would have been for naught if the British had not - [Narrator] In the end, The lucrative French sugar England takes poor and cold Canada. France celebrates saying England (slow dramatic music) (dramatic music) In the United States, Big Sugar of where the power lies, to their great advantage. At the Capital, key and the House of from the sugar industry almost from the moment they seek election. Big Sugar's power is centered and the Everglades, a vast populated by birds, (dramatic music) Giant sections of the by three Big Sugar companies. They are accused of the spoiling the land and polluting the environment Almost all the sugar produced is sold in the U.S. at a what the rest of the world pays for sugar. Cheap sugar, from often It's a subsidy bonanza. In 1994, a freshman Republican named Dan Miller, an opponent thought subsidizing Big - It's bad for the American consumer 'cause the United States, we as they do in Canada, or other places where they have an open market on sugar. So the consumer's paying Now that's not just the pack of sugar you get for your cup of coffee. It has impacts on dairy to the bread, to the pastries, - [Narrator] On the other side from the polite, conservative, is the brash, liberal, and journalist Carl Hiaasen. Big Sugar makes them bedfellows. - My problem is subsidizing a crop that has no zero nutritional benefit, that is not keeping anybody alive, is not helping a single and subsidizing what amounts And at the same time letting these guys use the Everglades as a toilet. Giving them water for almost nothing, as much water as they wanted and let them pissing it, into the Everglades, a (slow dramatic music) - [Narrator] In Washington, has no trouble finding to co-sponsor a bill to that goes to Big Sugar in - Good morning, Mister Speaker. - [Narrator] But on the day of the vote something astonishing happens. Five of his co-sponsors suddenly vote against the bill to defeat it. - It was rather amazing and it lost by five votes. I'm not sure why they changed. I know a lot of the media and that put them on the defensive. But you know, money buys there's no question about it. (gentle music) - [Narrator] In England, there is a hush surrounding the story of sugar the great estates built, At Oxford's All Souls College It's called the Codrington, of one Christopher His wealth came from sugar. On the east coast of Barbados, an Anglican seminary for West Indians, yet another gift from the In Barbados and in England to ask too many questions about how the Codrington but Adam Hochschild says that behind many a great - The crime was slavery at that time was done by slaves, and it was done by slaves working under the most horrible conditions of slaves almost anywhere in the Americas. (slow dramatic music) - [Narrator] Her name is Lisa Codrington, and she's looking for her which once upon a time was the Codrington sugar slave plantation. Lisa is a Toronto writer about the power of sugar of her Barbados family. When she was eight, with her mother, and did not She has come to begin quest for the story behind her name. - It sort of seems like a Greek god. That's the first thing I think of, especially the bust itself, more Greek god, definitely. My family originally some slaves Or is this name just, that my name is Codrington as well. I wanna go back and find and who did you come from, and where did those people come from, and who brought them here. (gentle music) - [Narrator] At the Lisa is trying to pick up the paper trail to her family's past. - I'm here because I want my Codrington name, and go back as far as slavery. - [Narrator] Historian Ron - Well, you're not likely to slavery itself. - Okay. - When slavery ended, all the ex-slaves had to have surnames for the first time because they were citizens. For legal reasons they Well the only names they knew were the Anglo-Saxon names of the whites. That didn't necessarily mean that a slave took the name of his or her former owner, but they took some Anglo-Saxon You're gonna find it difficult to prove that your ancestors were slaves - [Narrator] But assisted and guided by Hughes, begins with a clue, Rose Evangeline, the name of her great-grandmother. - [Lisa] Oh this is - No, no, 1875 exactly. Continue down till you reach 1875. - Emily, Henry Joseph, James Milton, Augustus Edith, no Rose. (slow dramatic music) - [Both] Rose Evangeline. - Codrington, that could be it then. - Yeah, Rose Evangeline Codrington, volume 62, page 39. - [Narrator] Lisa is now looking for her great-great and evidence they were slaves on the Codrington Sugar Plantation. - Okay. Oh here, George Devonshire was 22. He was a bachelor, and he was a laborer on the Society Estate. He lived on the Society in Society's chapel in Saint John. I am excited. (gentle music) - [Narrator] In West Palm of the Florida Crystals Corporation, the largest of three big The owners of Florida Crystals who live lavish lives in of Palm Beach. One brother lives in this His name is Jose Pepe Fanjul, and he's the family's He's close to the Bush family, the president in Washington. A few blocks away, another resides at this $11 His name is Alfy Fanjul, and he's the Democrat in the family. Carl Hiaasen. - They're very shrewd of course they're very much The upper crust of Florida, but they give magnanimously (upbeat music) - [Narrator] The most telling illustration of Big Sugar's power came during Alfy Fanjul's access is now a legend. It began when Al Gore, proposed the one cent a pound to clean up the Everglades. Big Sugar does not like taxes. The White House heard from an His call was put straight who was quite busy at the time. - Bill Clinton was able to take a call from one of them while if we shall use that in the Oval Office. She even remembered the phone call, along with a few other But the idea that one of to the President of the United States during what presumably tells you how powerful they are, and what kind of clout they have. And it continues with the - [Narrator] The proposed For the 2004 election, received $3.1 million dollars from Big Sugar. In return, Congress a billion and a half a year in subsidies. The Fanjul share of that is after donating $450,000 to the candidates. - That's what it's all is you know how much money you and that buys you access. That what gets you in the door. That's what gets your phone call answered when you're the president of a romantic assignation When these guys call, (gentle music) - [Narrator] The society is where sugar barons mix Hiaasen says the Fanjuls - They're known as sort of affable guys, and very sociable or party-oriented. The Palm Beach society is a party society 'cause there isn't a heck of a lot to do up there besides party. They're not behind the scenes players, they're pretty out in the open. - [Narrator] The Fanjul family is famous for charitable fundraising, when your reputation as an (slow dramatic music) In the 1980s, working conditions at the Fanjul's Florida sugar plantations had come under attack. Migrant workers were brought in from the Caribbean to cut cane. It was a harvest of shame. - The abuse was so horrible, it was basically indentured servitude. These people worked all day They went home that night they had to buy it from they were working for. If they wanted food for their families, if they wanted any kind of medical care, all that came out of their paycheck. And so at the end of the week, it was not uncommon for them to owe money to the very people whose (slow dramatic music) - [Narrator] The Fanjuls and in articles like this a lot of bad publicity. They tried to get rid of by mechanizing the harvest - There's no heart in this business. There's not a shred of It's brutal, hard work, and the disgraceful conditions that existed here in Florida have simply been moved (slow dramatic music) - Church records may hold the final clue to Lisa Codrington's past. - He's in here 'cause it's - Okay, so let's look for 1845. - [Narrator] With her Barbados cousin, Lisa is looking for documents proving that she is descended from slaves. - [Lisa] Mm-mm, mm-mm, I - You see she's in here and her baptism-- - The bishop at the time was-- - [Narrator] They find it, the very page signed on their wedding day by Mary Christian and Joseph Codrington. - Residing at the something at the Society Estate. - And Mary Christian, it's right here. - Yeah. - [Narrator] It's proof - [Cousin] Christian X right there too. - That's his name. - [Lisa] That's his X. - [Cousin] But this is Mary's. - Cool. And purposely, I was trying to read it. - That's actually like they had this book and he actually wrote it in. Like this is actually the-- - Yeah, I'm sorry. You see, all this, this book Do you have anything for 1780? - [Cousin] You're right in slavery, no we're going. (gentle music) - [Narrator] Christopher polished in England, educated at Oxford, succeeded his father as and the master of the Codrington Codrington boasted about how well the Codrington slaves were - [Christopher] Such treatment, and my father their undying affection. The slaves paid his tune regular visits, promising when they had they will come to him and in another world. - [Narrator] In her search for roots, Lisa is looking for oral Wondering what kind of a man - I just wanted to know if you can give me your take on Christopher Codrington. - [Narrator] An islander is - As a slave master? - Mm-hmm. - He was pretty hard person. But for me I wanted to say slave master can be pretty hard because of their rights. You know, slave master, all slave master have a lot to pay for. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] In the Caribbean Sea, the island of Hispaniola, Haiti on one side, the So lucrative are the lush sugar fields that this was once the fought over by French, Now it's in the American orbit. Today most of the sugar industry is ruled by three corporations, a Dominican, a Mexican, and There have been questions on all of them. The American plantation, Central Romana, is a 240,000 acre spread It's owned back in Florida President Jose Pepe Fanjul - Central Romana has a very in the Dominican Republic obviously. I can tell you that if the Dominican Republic center of living unfortunately it's not what it is, but I can assure you that Central Romana is the largest taxpayer, the largest employer in the island, and the most progressive employer (slow dramatic music) - [Narrator] We sent on a fact-finding mission In the heat he found a chilling story. - What I saw was straight out of a book before the Industrial Revolution. I felt like I had stepped back 200 years. (slow dramatic music) - [Narrator] On the edge at the Fanjul Central Romano plantation, this is the batey Plumita, for indentured Haitian sugar cane workers and their families. (baby crying) - Government helps get They have these people called contracteros who sit along the border and try to entice Haitian workers over telling them that, you know, the conditions are good, that they're gonna be to feed their families. And they bring them over, and sometimes, you know, in the process so that once they're there. - [Narrator] Most of the working sugar in the Dominican Republic are kept stateless. They are pariahs, looked down and forbidden to leave (worker speaking in foreign language) Felix is one of 90,000 Haitians at the Fanjul Central Romano plantation. - [Mark] He had been there for 18 years, brought over you know by a contractero. And since then he found a He doesn't eat for the day, without having any breakfast, and cuts sugar cane until until nighttime. He takes a break at midday, but the food goes to the children. (slow dramatic music) When the food runs out in the house the children go to the sugar cane fields, break off a piece of sugar cane, and sometimes that's that's what they have to eat for the day, that's dinner. - [Narrator] Sugar cane but rots their teeth. (child speaking in foreign language) The sugar plantation workers are almost all from families (slow dramatic music) - Slavery is absolutely central to sugar. We mustn't forget that in 3 1/2 centuries of were taken across the Atlantic, from Africa to the Americas, roughly 2/3 of them ended Now, that number was so high because sugar slavery was in many ways one of the most deadly forms of slavery. Cutting sugar cane by one of the hardest The slaves who cut sugar were worked to death (gentle music) - [Narrator] On the old Lisa Codrington meets Marcia Burros, one of a new generation of Lisa is trying to get inside the skin of her slave ancestors, of Mary Christian, her great-great grandmother, a laborer on the Codrington plantations. - [Lisa] What would the cutting sugar cane be like? - It's gonna be a very active thing. Women easily are up about before they go off to the fields. Remember that she might have she might be injured, or She'd be doing what any female be doing, getting up in the morning, and going to work. They'd have to make sure children are fed whatever food there is There might be a man in their life that they have to feed as well. (gentle music) The field slave's job is to cut the cane, and take it in a way, in Barbados we carried it in or what we call headed cane. Women particularly would on their head and carry it to the windmill to be processed, and that this would be happening. - [Narrator] In old Barbados, the cane was ground down in windmills. Today, the process has been mechanized in steaming sugar factories. Adam Hochschild says processing sugar cane was deadlier than field work. - Feeding the sugar was a very dangerous process because the mills operated The cane had to be fed If the slave was the least bit tired, or careless, or sleepy, after a 12-hour day in the fields, and his or her hand got there was somebody to chop off the arm so wouldn't get carried through because these rollers had no brakes. (dramatic music) - [Narrator] From the against the brutal working conditions. Small bands of slaves set cane fields, plantation houses, striking back at their Seven million slaves were in the 1700s, mostly for Big Sugar. Within eight years, half were dead, most of them worked to death. (workers yelling) (dramatic music) - When you're there in it's eerily beautiful. By 10 a.m. it's scorching, In the summer time it gets And there isn't any water where they are, and the heat just builds. And the dust that comes once it's cut is stifling. They're breathing this cut cane and dirt. It kind of suffocates them. (worker coughing) When they're out in the field, they work in these teams of seven, loading up the carts with the sugar cane. Each man is expected to cut When they weigh it at the end of the day, if they've managed to cut a ton each, they get what works out or a thousand pounds of There was no way for and make any sense of it. (slow dramatic music) - [Narrator] It is a criminal harvesting, sowing, or loading sugar cane, but the sugar companies Father Christopher Hartley, is documenting the scene. He will bring it to the and when they refuse to act, will bring it to the Father Hartley is making his Sunday rounds across a parish that's He knows well all the Inspired by the famous nun of Calcutta, he is the Father Teresa - My intention is not to become or to create a revolution. I am where I am fulfilling the mission I have been entrusted by the church as a shepherd of my flock. - [Narrator] No doctors so Father Hartley's is medical as well. (dramatic music) (woman speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] These are The man is in danger of losing his hand. But the motorbike will have Next door to his church, the priest has set up a small pharmacy so their prescription can be filled free. - [Mark] I filmed this on a batey owned by a Dominican planter, but the almost non-existent medical care is constant across all - [Narrator] Father Hartley says the oxen that pull the carts are - For example, an oxen has an accident, breaks its leg or whatever, they immediately send a vet The animal is removed and it's brought to a proper place where it can be tended to, taken care of, and is replaced by another oxen. Oxen are certainly much than human beings. - [Narrator] At a plantation owned by a Dominican corporation, this is the only water and their families. The water is laden with It makes their children (slow dramatic music) (birds chirping) (gentle music) Toronto writer Lisa requires a disquieting and all its chambers. The art of the time about the master/slave relationship. - It's just really disturbing. I think it was a perceived like you'd like them to be, obedient, almost stone, with no feelings, and sort of this is half kind of smile, glazed over eyes with nothing behind, just constant obedience. I think that's what you'd And that's how your servant has to be for you to continue to (slow dramatic music) - [Narrator] Household slaves have to deal with the master and his Documents archived in the depict Christopher Codrington describing him as an incestuous man who kept continually about him a seraglio of slave women for his use. (woman crying) He fathered children by them, bastards they were called. If the husbands of these women rebelled, shucking off their they were hunted down Here, too, animals were better treated. (dramatic music) - [Rider] Hyah, hyah! - [Narrator] The whites so they could be whipped, (man yelling) Generations of black men are imprisoned by what Big Sugar did (man groaning) At a tony Palm Beach is hosting Florida glitterati - Here, here, here. (people chattering) - [Narrator] The sugar baron to convince Floridians Mr. Franjul says it's unfair to focus on his sumptuous lifestyle. - You guys are sensationalists, and you try to do sensationalist things. Now you're trying to say, &quot;Look at the way &quot;Franjul lives, he has a nice car, &quot;and the Florida Crystals building.&quot; That's your story, you've written it. That's the way you're gonna have it, nothing I can do about it. - Except from that side. - [Reporter] In Central every night, Mr. Franjul, And it doesn't seem to bother you one bit. - No, it just bothers, it bothers me. I would hate to have anybody or without adequate Obviously it bothers me, Which what I'm saying to you or have it produced a TV thing of it, go and look at what we've done there, and then make up your mind. (slow dramatic music) - [Narrator] In the Dominican Republic, the Fanjuls purchased the with its thousands of Haitian workers from the Gulf and Western Corporation. We inquired whether under the Fanjuls, say in the last decade. (slow dramatic music) - [Mark] Leaving the plantation of being deported, so most stay put. This means they have to for the basic things of life. (workers speaking in foreign language) The prices at this one, on a show the type of gouging that goes on. Staples here are up to double the price they are in town. (workers speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] To pay for these groceries, he cut 1,000 kilos of sugar cane. (workers speaking in foreign language) This is the batey Saguaro on the Fanjul Central Romano Plantation. The women are waiting for the men to come back from the fields. For the cane cutters and their families, it will be the first meal of the day. - [Father Hartley] Happy trailers. (dramatic music) Fanjul security is never far away. - [Mark] I met one family of their own vegetables, Even the families that have have them torn out by the company. I mean they live in a small police state. There's these guys on who ride through town just make sure that everybody's toeing the line. (workers speaking in foreign language) (gentle music) - [Narrator] Lisa comes to the church where her great-great walked down the aisle. Slaves marrying in a Christian Church. This was the doing of In 1702, Codrington wrote out his will, deeding his sugar plantation on the condition his slaves not be freed. He thought slavery was and for the next 120 years so did the Church of England. Codrington slaves discovered the church was a ruthless slave master, even boasting its own which was branded into the (woman screaming) - The Society for the in Foreign Parts, the of which the archbishop of Canterbury and various professors of divinity at Oxford and Cambridge were and a number of bishops of the church. And it is amazing to me these people never seem to have questioned the institution of slavery. (gentle music) - [Narrator] As Codrington slaves, Lisa's family were branded (dramatic music) Lisa tries to make sense but she has a hard time comprehending. - To sit down and try is near impossible because and understand it. It's, it's just beyond me. It's, it's just, I mean, in Canada, in Toronto, of what it's like to have (dramatic music) - [Narrator] In the Dominican Republic, next door to their the Fanjuls own Casa de Campo, a world-class resort, boasting luxurious pools, groomed beaches, polo grounds, and an amphitheater with a nightly extravaganza. (performers singing in foreign language) - It's literally across the street from fields of sugar cane. When you enter the front gates, you leave behind the pre-industrial age and you enter a world of luxury. - [Narrator] Here the Fanjul including in 2001, the - [Mark] People are paying, to stay in these luxurious rooms. Someone working in the sugar cane fields would have to work a year in order to spend a single (slow dramatic music) All that Felix owns in the sugar cane fields is a worn machete and the tattered clothes - [Reporter] We find people that basically can't make enough to eat before they go into the fields. - I don't believe that. I think that you're that are not Central Romana. Find out if that's Central Romana. - [Reporter] It was Central - In the area, but it's - [Narrator] In Central Romana, one of 183 shanty towns These are Central Romana overseers employed by the Fanjuls. And these are his hungry who are forbidden from planting Their employer says, &quot;It's unfair &quot;to use a North American &quot;at Central Romana.&quot; &quot;After all,&quot; he says, &quot;they are providing jobs for Haitians &quot;who would otherwise have none.&quot; - These aren't jobs that they're getting, it's, it's a lifetime of indentured labor. I would like the Fanjuls, of their board members to and try it for a day. (slow dramatic music) I'm quite sure there's could make profit, and at the very least, food for these people. (people chattering) (workers speaking in foreign language) (train clanking) (slow dramatic music) (Multicom Jingle)