It's a restaurant that refuses to be labeled, and loves to keep people guessing. It's why they've been called the most When you hear this name: Ikoyi What comes to mind? Japanese, right? Sorry, not even close. Actually, the name comes from And when they were starting out, they But people coming to get classic West This is exactly what happened and Trip Advisor was flooded with 1-star reviews. But it didn't stop them. Because in 2022, Ikoyi received So today, we travel to London And solve a good, old-fashioned mystery. What is this place they call Ikoyi? To get there, we need to go to Temple, the historic legal district of London. Home of the 800-year-old Temple Church, where Robert and Sophie searched The Da Vinci Code. Well, just down the street, A cheerful welcome and we are brought here. To a private dining area. It's great for privacy and recording sound. But I can't help but wonder what This table setting is as minimalist as I've seen. The wood, metal, and stone with the lighting create a warm, refined, and timeless feel. And it's functional too. Soon, the first bites will arrive Who shows up to introduce it? Chef Jeremy Chan. This is one of his signature creations. Smoked beef from Cornwall. Glazed in a citrus chili marinade. With 10-day aged English bluefin tuna belly. Topped with a dragon cucumber We get more than a delicious Chef Jeremy also gives us our first clue So, I really liked this first bite. But what I can't stand is The lamp only lights up the center of the table. When a dish is in front of me, I Our next bite is Seabass &amp; Tagetes, Tagetes, also known as marigold, give it a fresh, floral flavor and aroma. The seabass has a rich, subtle flavor. This straw-like texture scratched my mouth a bit and was intriguing for my tastebuds and my brain. I liked everything about it. Including the plate. This is metalwork by Alex Pole. Each dent comes from a hammer strike made by hand. We've seen his work in the Beautiful craftsmanship. Those were the first couple of bites of For drinks, they have three Sake, tea, and of course, wine. My friends try the sake and tea. For me, I decide to pass. I'm in the mood for a big Burgundy. The sommelier recommends a special A 2015 Lucien Le Moine Batard-Montrachet. The year 2015 is widely regarded And this Grand Cru is in and here it is just over 2000 euro. Our next bite is a tartlet The shell is paper-thin and It contrasts with the softness of the langoustine, which has been gently warmed This had lovely sweet, almost honey-like flavors, with a spicy thing going on as well. Our next appetizer is called Drunken Squid Toast. It's a confit squid made and served on toast made with On top, thinly sliced black truffle. Does it remind you of anything? I take this opportunity to He doesn't miss a beat. Staff Humor? Level 100. So far, so, so good. Exciting first bites. They explore a variety of flavor, It's like warming up before a workout, Except this is for the tastebuds. Saffron and Mussel creme caramel are next. Featuring lightly poached razor N25 Kaluga caviar and saffron. The team at Ikoyi work closely with increasing the nuttiness, and It's a luxurious fusion of The razor clams have a perfect chewy texture. Combined with the earthiness of beetroot, and the decadence of caviar, this As you have probably gathered, this The reason lies within its two founders. Head chef Jeremy Chan, and managing Ire grew up in Lagos, Nigeria He went on to study at the and was expected to follow in the in the family's insurance business. But after a few years, he wanted something new. Enter his high school friend, Chef Jeremy Chan. Born in the UK, Jeremy lived As a teenager, he became and became fluent in six of them before moving to the States to study at Princeton. Soon, he was using his powerful He moved to Spain and started a career in finance, but soon was more interested in He quit his job, moved to London, and started knocking on kitchen Claude Bosi at Hibiscus was the first to answer. Then, Rene Redzepi at Noma. And later, Heston Blumenthal at Dinner by Heston. At each restaurant, Chef Jeremy Then, in 2016, he was approached Before long, their restaurant was born, named after the Nigerian In 2017, Ikoyi opened its doors, but the response was less than positive. People expecting West African cuisine were not impressed with a Chinese-Canadian-UK chef creating out-of-the-box dishes with their spices. And Ikoyi started racking up Luckily, food critics with open minds loved it. One year later, Michelin arrived with The same year, the restaurant To this day, Ikoyi refuses to be pigeon-holed, with Chef Jeremy insisting that He prefers the term refined And here he is to introduce our next dish. This is a signature dish of the restaurant. Glazed courgettes in a tomato water reduction. Served with Jazzy Fizzle tomato. Which is definitely the It's glazed with a raspberry reduction. Liquorice leaf, basil, and tonnato. A piece of grilled lobster claw And finished with a bit of fig leaf oil. There is also a silky orange sauce made There is so much happening in one dish, it's a playground of taste and texture I really, really love this dish. We are at the halfway point, and Here the open kitchen is in full view. It's peaceful and organized. Back at the table, I request a wine from It's a 2022 Selvadolce from northern Italy. It was a good call. This wine is luscious with deep gold color. It's paired with this. Smoked sweetbread suya. Suya is a traditional smoked Here, they use that concept to create this dish. The sweetbread is seasoned before it's brined, caramelized, It's served with creamed green beans chrysanthemum, and black mint. So far, I really liked every dish. But in one area, I have mixed feelings. The portions are quite big, and the presentation is turning For example, these large leaves. However, in terms of flavor, I really enjoyed the play of spices Reimagining classic foods in his own style In 2023, Chef Jeremy teamed up for a hyper-exclusive collab And served for just one day at a price of 18 euro. It's not their only limited-edition In May of 2024, they offered a It was 5 courses for just 70 euro The deal was on for just two days. Who will they collaborate with next? Your guess is as good as mine. We have great news for you. When we reach 500,000 subscribers, We're still a little far from there, but you all keep saying that the You said it, not me. But the truth is, 66% of you watch So if you guys hit the subscribe button, Let's get there together! Details coming soon. At this point, this room is not my favorite. It's facing the entrance where people At first, the Lazy Susan in the middle It was fun for a minute, but Next, we get to watch a course being prepared. It's called scallop fudge. It starts with the skirt of the Then it's confited, caramelized, Chef Jeremy then adds a reduction which is almost like a fudge. Then, the whole thing is bruleed. Served with it is brown and eggplant caramelized with pumpkin seed miso. If you forced me to pinpoint I would be in trouble. Unbelievably deep, rich, complex flavors. It has a bit of sweetness, And suddenly some spiciness kicks in, and wow. The menu has taken a than what I was expecting It lost its elegance and is At this point, I must admit that The wine worked well with the but at this point, the flavors are that the wine doesn't work. I'm glad I tasted this wine, but I Many of you seem to think that people leave And have to go to McDonalds or something. From my experience, this is a myth. Almost every time, I leave feeling very satisfied. But here, the portions are larger, Even though the main course is still to come. Chef Jeremy walks us through it. Grass-fed beef sourced from a local farm. Today it's Angus beef. Barbequed and glazed with onion caramel. and goat horn pepper with In the middle are emulsions of And a jelly made with onion jus It's served with the signature Smoked jollof rice served with custard made with lobster and braised At this point, the elegance in the Chopped tomatoes on the But I have to say, in terms of flavor, it was a great dish and worked With the savory courses behind We asked them several times that if there we would love to sit there. And that time has come. But by this time, most of the guests have left, so I don't get to experience the true Things really start to relax Now, the main service is over, and It's one of the drawbacks of this open kitchen. it's not an elegant sight. Time for our first dessert. Fresh liquorice leaf with a frozen Then, cream infused with preserved And baba ganoush made with smoked eggplant. Another extremely complex dish here. For me, it's a little bit too complicated. I think it was trying to After all the stimulation of my And now for dessert number two. It starts with sugar harvested It's made into a mousse on top of malted barley cookie, hazelnut tuile, and English blackberries with date pudding. This dessert is more my speed. Our last sweet bites are more amazing creations with seasonal fruit and even more We have yellow peach with saffron granita. Honeymelon from Mantova, Italy dipped in strawberry consomme with Finally, a tartlet with walnut fudge flavored with suya spices Sweet, and tangy with a lot of juicy goodness. And that wraps up our experience at Ikoyi. Our total for today is forty-six So, what is this place called Ikoyi? Now that you've seen it, what do you think? Leave your thoughts in the comments below. About Ikoyi, I will say this: My experience was something different. I really, really liked the flavors. The spices were used in a very playful way. I discovered tastes I've never had The first part of the menu was Then, it shifted to a more robust And the portions were enormous, so by the end, I was uncomfortably full. The flavor combinations are very My friends had the sake pairing, and If you visit Ikoyi, I definitely Chef Jeremy does things very Which can sometimes be risky. It's clear that in a busy and competitive market, they tried to stand out with different messages. Later, these messages caused confusion. Now that they've found their path, they I think Chef Jeremy just needs to because it's the right direction for him. I think that as time goes on, he will find that balance I'm really curious to see where this Congratulations, and best of luck!