Ly Tu Tien hello everyone, wish everyone a happy and peaceful new day, thank you everyone for your care and love in the past. Tu Tien and Jack cane are also ruined, probably before everyone else. I planted it but didn't take care of it. I probably have to replant it . I have to cut down the fallen trees. If it 's all like this, it's ruined. Maybe this sugar cane is also sweet . If it 's all like this, how can it grow? I don't understand why I always have pictures in my head. his photo Now I don't know what to do anymore. Good I said I had feelings for him to let him know. But is that okay? But I'm afraid of saying it.. And Tu Tien is also a simple girl. I'm also afraid of hurting her. She really doesn't know what to do now I'm awake, where are you going? This morning I went to see you sleeping so well. Mom didn't call. I went to collect some debt. Why do you look so tired? No, I just woke up. Or am I missing Jack again , Mom? Mom, I saw a picture of Jack. Actually, I'm thinking about what to do. I have feelings for Jack, but I don't know if I should tell him. I'm afraid he'll refuse. Then it becomes awkward. Just boldly confess your love to him and see how it goes. Mom will find a way to help you. I'm scared when I confess my love to him.. I'm just afraid he'll see me as a sister . So I don't know how to face him. I'm on my own believe that my daughter is as beautiful as this. It's sad. I also feel sorry for you. So, have you collected all the debt today? You've collected it all. There's one more house. They asked to pay in a few days. A few more days. Mom came to collect the rest . How is my work? This time, Jack arranged for me to go to his company to do work, which was also smooth, Mom. Everyone at the company is also sociable and approachable, nothing happened. My daughter, try your best. Yes, try to help me at work Yes, if you have anything, just tell me straight up.. My daughter is beautiful, try your best . Yes, just be bold and confess then I will talk to Uncle Loi. Mom and him are friends from In the past, even before I returned from studying abroad, my mother wanted me to go to her best friend's brother, Jack. Yes. Are you going anywhere this weekend? I also have an appointment with a friend, Mom. It's almost time for you. I'll come pick you up, okay, I'll just go play on the weekend it's comfortable Yes Yes So are you going anywhere later or are you at home I'm just at home I just got back from collecting debt and I'm a bit tired Go ahead and hang out with your friends, my friend will come pick me up and I'll go, Mom Yes, I Go, Mom, stay home. I'll probably be late before I get home. Be careful. Poor girl, she's sad all day. I have to call Mr. Duc. I haven't called back since that day, Mr. Duc. Work I entrust you to investigate which girl Jack brought to you How are you doing? So please investigate and let me know if there's anything. Hurry up. Okay then, try to do it quickly for me. What's that sound in the kitchen? This girl turns the stove on and doesn't turn it off. It 's been in her head all the time. I'm always thinking about Jack every day, I can't think of anything , Jack, yes. Are you awake? Yes , Mom, cook noodles, come down and eat. Yes, mom . Do you have a lot of work at the company? Today is a day off, mom. Is that so? Are you going anywhere today? I have mom, so you don't eat? Mom, I've eaten. Mom's cooking is so delicious. Thank you, Mom. It's been a long time since I've cooked noodles for you. Go ahead and eat. My mom's cooking is really good . After I finished eating, I went to Tu Tien's place to see what she was doing. Today is a day off. Eat a lot. Mommy cooks delicious noodles . You finish the bowl and then drink this cup of milk. Are you on a weight-loss diet? Yes, you're still the same. Okay, mom, just eat well. Now that you're old, you should also eat less foods that are high in protein. Yes , after eating, drink milk. Lately, I've seen you skinny and look very pale. Yes. Mom, I'm going today. Mom, I 'm not going anywhere today. Mrs. Hien, Mrs. Y, is calling but I don't want to go with her. I can go wherever I have free time. Staying at home alone is also sad . Lately, I don't want to go. Today , my child. I have a break but I go to work or somewhere else I have work to do, Mom. If you have a break, come pick up Tu Tien to go out. The resort I went to this year is very nice. Yes, it's growing more and more . Coming here, I feel very comfortable and at ease. If If my mom is bored at home, she just goes on a trip. My friends invite me to go there all the time, but my mom has been there a lot. Last month, she was so beautiful. So if you have a day off, come pick up Tu Tien and come play. Yes, which day is it? When I have a long break, I go there to play. Take Tu Tien to those places to play It's so fun, Tu Tien probably has never been there . Yes, the scene there is enough to take pictures. Here, I took out my phone to show you the photos I took there. Mom's cooking of noodles is so delicious. It's so delicious , you have to eat it all. It's so beautiful, my dear. Yes, it's beautiful, Mom. Here, I took a photo with this waterfall. This place is full of mountains and forests . Yes, it's so scenic. So when will I go out again ? Yes, after you eat, drink a glass of milk. Yes, Tu Tien must give it to these places. A place like this I'm sure she's never been here before, Mom I've been to this place a few times. I've also been to this place a few times, but I still like to come . Please drink all your milk. Yes, I've had enough. So mom, please stay home. I'll go . Let's go to the farm to pick up Tu Tien to go out. You two go have a drink. Yes, mom, stay home. Just leave it to mom. So I'm going. Yes, I'll be careful when I go. Yes, I say hello to my mom. Come to Tu Tien's place to watch today. What is she doing now? Let's go down and buy Tu Tien a glass of water, honey Make me two cups of iced yogurt Yes, I'll bring it back . Please send it to me. How much is it? 40,000 VND. I've already transferred the money. Yes, thank you. It's so bad here that I can't grow sugarcane. I'll do it. What is it? I just finished cleaning the sugarcane garden. Are you not going to work today? Today is a day off. Please drink some water. I'll buy you some water. Let 's go home and sleep. I'm done. So go inside and sit. I'll come here and sit. Come on, I'm going to wash my hands, Chameleon Yes , this morning I went to pick up some. Did you come home early last night? Yesterday you came home early . Today I have a day off. Come see what I'm doing. I'll do it with you. I just finished cleaning the sugarcane garden. I'm drinking water. dd Yes , please. Is your aunt at home? Yes, your mother is at home. I'm also very thirsty. Thank you. Please drink this water like I bought it for you last time, right? Yes . Are you tired? No. Take the time to clear the sugarcane garden so that in a few days other things can be planted in it It fell all over so it was damaged. Where did I get this flower? There's a very big tree out there. Have you ever eaten this dish ? I plan to harvest it and sell it today when there's a market . Are you going anywhere? I'm planning to go up to the forest to get some things later. So will you come with me? But I'm going to go far into the forest. I can go too far. You and I will go . Yes. Today you have a well-deserved rest. So I have to go out with my friends. Okay, I want to come in Let me see if I can do anything, can you help ? Yesterday the electric teacher said she couldn't come to teach today. So I took the opportunity to clean up the sugarcane garden and then go to the forest later . Get some wild bananas to dry. It's been a while since I've been there. I'll go with you to the forest later So you have to put on your boots for a momentSo you have to put your boots on for a moment Okay, are there boots here? Let me get them. After drinking the water, let's go. Later, I'll have to herd the dogs, Mia. They planted it, but it all fell down, bro. Even if the dike was restored, I couldn't eat it, so I moved it all away and replanted it. On this side, I'll probably have to pour in all the soil next time. Let me plant whatever I want . I have something to ask you. What's the matter? Really So you already know that I bought this farm from someone else. It's not like I borrowed it from my friend, but I'm probably still hiding it from you . I don't want you to think too much about that. It's true that I bought this farm back. Okay, I want to help you so you can rest assured here, don't think too much. You know that me and my aunt are always thinking about you. When I found out about this, I also thought a lot, but I don't want everyone to have to worry anymore. Tien, don't think too much. I just want to take care of you and have a better life So I don't have to think Who told me that I know Actually Giang told me Is that so I don't need to worry about that Yes If in the future you need my help And need me Whatever you do, just tell me. I just need you to be happy every day. I feel like I'm lucky in this life and owe you so much. So how are you going to repay me? I'll try my best when you need me. Whatever you do, I'll try . I just need Tu Tien to always be by my side It's okay to love you. Well , after drinking the water, I'll feed the dog and then go. Yes, I'll make this dish for you to eat someday. I don't know if what we do in the countryside is the same as what everyone else does down here. Yes, this is it. or mince the meat and stuff it in Yes Or I can dry it and cook soup. I was going to pick this up today and bring it to the market to sell, but it's late and I'll probably let it dry. Let me dry it for you. Okay, let me dry it for you. Go ahead. Just put it up there and you'll be fine. I don't know where to sleep as a puppy Okay, I'm away and I'm just worried that it's hungry. Okay, let's feed it . Let's bring it over here so the mother can eat. A few days ago, it was too skinny because the baby drank a lot of milk. Now the puppies have eaten rice, and the mother dog is also better . Now Let's eat Let the baby eat, mother dog, let 's eat Okay, go inside the house and leave it there to feed it. Now if you go to the forest, you have to change your boots Let me get the boots Let me put the boots on I'm wearing boots too Going to the forest is a bit far today. Today I will let you climb a high hill Okay , it's been a while since I climbed a high hill. Today I'm going to experience it. Take your hat and put it on. Yes, I'll put on my knife. Let's go. Let me wear it . But is it okay if I wear a white shirt? It's okay. Where are you? I'll help you lock the door on both sides. In a few days, I'll buy flowers for you to plant . Yes, it's beautiful to plant flowers here. Today, I'll clear this road so it clears the sugar cane, it's all spilled out. Let 's go by car. Okay, let's go up the high hill and leave the car there Are you afraid of being tired? No. Let's go up here. Do you know what this flower is? I don't know. This flower is called the torus flower. It's been a long time since I climbed a hill like this . Is it up here? Yes, let's go up a bit more, Tu Tien, give me this. It's okay to wear it . Are you tired? No, I'm used to walking. Honey, it's so beautiful here. It 's been a long time since I've been up a hill this high . It's so beautiful up here . It's almost like the top of the mountain, sir. From here I can see everything below . Isn't it beautiful? I just walked down the road down there. It's already very high up here. It's beautiful up here. Are you tired? No, I'm used to walking. Do you want to rest if When I rest, I go up to the rock up there and sit Have you ever been up here? You've been up here a few times. Were you tired before during that bamboo shoot season ? I'm just worried that you're tired. So let's go up there and rest . Yes, it's cool up there on that rock. It's cool to sit up there. It's also cool here. There are a lot of wild banana flowers. There must be crabs here. This season, they've all gone into the cave. Have you ever eaten this crab ? You can eat it. There's a banana flower tree here. I'll go down and get it in a bit. Be careful. At that place. Hey, it's cool. Let's sit here and rest. Yes, there's a bunch of bananas over there hey bro Alright then sit down and rest so I can get on top of you. Let's just sit down and rest for a while I brought you some water, will you drink it? It's so beautiful here. Sit down here and rest . Drink, Tu Tien, drink. Go , drink, I'm not thirsty. There were a lot of crabs here in the summer, only big stone crabs. Maybe one day we can bring food up here to grill chicken? Yes, it's cool here. Are you tired? It's normal. Today I should have gone to the district to play with friends on my day off You're my friend. Yet I'm going up to the forest with you like this. It's been a long time since I've gone to the forest like this. I'm happy to accompany you up here. I'm always thinking about you. Because I love Tu Tien . Sit down, I'll go up there and chop and let go of the banana or I'll chop it for you. Sit here, let me chop it. Then let me go over there and get that banana flower. Be careful, okay. There's a big bunch of bananas over there. Honey, banana flowers too , honey , here I can pick them up a little pumpkin , okay? This type of banana in the past, my grandfather used to tell me to go get it so I can chop it up and dry it to drink. This is very good. Suddenly I miss my grandfather so much . In the past, he also used to take me to the forest like this. There's another room on the other side, I'll go over there and get it. This room is a bit small, Tu Tien. I 'll be in England. Wait for me, Tu Tien. Did you get two bunches of wild bananas? Yes , what can I get? There's a secret over there, sir. There are pumpkin vines growing wild and I see some pumpkins that look very delicious Only one vine can grow a few fruits. Sit down and rest. This banana flower must be very delicious. There's one more fruit over there. I'll go get it . Okay, then let me cut it down. You just sit and rest. You just sit and rest. I'll go get it. Just this tree, sir. I thought he only knew what he was doing at the company, but everyone in the forest knows . It's still very young. Yes , the flowers just came out . This is because I chopped it up and dried it. Very good medicine. Yes , this is wild banana. I'm going today Going up to the park with you makes me miss my grandfather so much. So in the past, I used to go with him too. That 's right. In the past, my grandfather used to let me go up the hill with him to get medicinal plants . Please drink some water. I don't drink, you drink. Let 's sit and rest here for a while and then try going down there to see if it's still there. Yes, it's still there. Bring it up too high or you'll get some more bamboo shoots. Your shirt is dirty. It's okay. That 's it. Just let me hold it. Maybe it's easier to go this way. I'll go first Go carefully, it's okay. It's okay. Go carefully. You're almost there. Yes, go carefully . What's wrong with you ? Slow down. Wait for me to let go of the stone . I'll step on the stone. It slipped down. It's very heavy. Okay, let me take this basket off. Are you in a lot of pain? Are you in a lot of pain? I'm sure it's okay. Does it hurt? Let me help you get up here and sit. Please go carefully. Be careful, it's probably okay, let me pick you up here Let's sit down and rest. Be careful, this grass is very slippery . Try to go out Are you okay? My leg hurts. The grass is so slippery. Okay, it's okay . Are you okay? It's too late now. Let me put you down . Let's go. Please be careful.