February 1945. For six years, Europe has been Millions of men died. But this time, the certainty of and the Allies are already thinking about the future. 'Cause it's now, while that we must prepare for peace. Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill This meeting will take place of the southern Soviet Union. It is there, in the Crimea, that the three giants the post-war world during one of the biggest the Yalta conference. From Yalta, history remembered this photo. But what way Why these strained faces United in war, the Allies will For eight days, the big three go both their interests In Yalta is the last time Each of them is then while with this conference, the world will soon sink February 3, 1945. After seven hours of flight, left in the night, land on the frozen ground When he got off the plane, He has a fever of 39. But the prime minister Even sick, he is ready Franklin Roosevelt, President despite extreme fatigue. On the trail, diplomats In Yalta, many of them Thanks to their secrets, we know what really happened Their writings tell all that Stalin did not bother His absence is already a way Negotiations have indeed begun. It is therefore Molotov, the faithful who awaits Roosevelt Plagued by poliomyelitis, Walking by his side, Churchill The strangeness of this scene Churchill's personal physician, "The Prime Minister followed like when, an Indian steward accompanied And it's not Churchill will appear Because already, while the British Empire The United States and the Soviet Union In Yalta, Churchill goes Yalta is 150 kilometers from Saki. It takes no less the road is so bad and winding. For Roosevelt, He was paralyzed. To travel by car, with two cushions and support his legs It was truly As the war continues the course has been placed 160 fighter planes criss-cross the sky. Anna Boettiger, Roosevelt's daughter is amazed to see the means In her diary she writes: &quot; All along soldiers had been Everytime those who didn't have a gun All those Russian soldiers, women Through the window, Roosevelt and Churchill Crimea was taken over nearly 20 million 70,000 towns and villages The USSR was And Stalin himself supervised so that no destruction This will allow Stalin, somehow, Roosevelt first. We got a lot of dead, implied after five o'clock Roosevelt and Churchill arrive Roosevelt is exhausted. For him the journey has begun when he crossed the Atlantic in In total, the American president Churchill 3,200, and Stalin, As if the number and that Roosevelt was the one Stalin the least. Yalta bay In the 19th century, it was a where tsars and aristocrats The participants in palaces Before the negotiations they had been fully restored. In preparation for the conference, things that came to make a look who had suffered a terrible Stalin imposed the choice of Yalta. He therefore wants his hosts He will receive them with magnificence. He reserved for them Livadia Palace for Roosevelt. This is where they took place And the Vorontsov Villa for Churchill. That night, Each of the big three takes February 4, 1945. First day of negotiations. Before the debates begin, Stalin pays a visit To Churchill first. The two men have not seen each other since. They are happy to meet again and Reunion with Roosevelt The Russian and the American share And the lemon is missing. Stalin takes note of this, he had a gigantic lemon tree brought. It impresses them because for the English a whole lemon tree, in full it is something fabulous. They are therefore literally dazzled. And, at the same time, it serves Because on the ground, Since the spring, the roller and the Red Army resumes For Stalin, the time to monetize At 5 p.m., In the Livadia ballroom, everything is ready. Ministers and diplomats discuss between Churchill is the first The Prime Minister is in a good mood and wearing a Russian hat He's getting better. After a good night's sleep Stalin follows him. in front of the cameras, Roosevelt has already settled in The same ride will repeat itself He forbade the filming of his He had to be carried from his chair What is not easy when you The private advisers of the three Because they are not going to negotiate alone. Churchill is accompanied by Anthony Eden, as well as the diplomat Alexander Roosevelt, he will rely on the man he trusts the most, but also on Edward Statinius, Stalin has two main advisors: Vyacheslav Molotov, and diplomat Ivan Maisky. Four big files are on the table: the fate of defeated Germany, that of Poland, the UN and the war against Japan. On all these files, the position will play a decisive role. Since December, Bulgaria, Hungary and Poland. The Russians are no more slowed down by a the Anglo-American troops, We can say that the Soviets are clearly and, from this point of view, which can have consequences In addition to this asymmetry on the ground, there is another, ideological. Churchill and Roosevelt are Yet they do not necessarily go On the contrary. Because in fact, the two men are quite Roosevelt appreciates Churchill, because he stood alone in Europe in 1940, and that he admires this guy who is still and, at the same time, a certain contempt, because he considers it while he considers especially the decolonization of the world. Roosevelt needs Because at the same time in the Pacific, Americans are The fights are incredibly violent and the Japanese do not hesitate to rather than surrender. Without the help of the Soviets, Roosevelt also counts on Stalin to participate in the future he wants to implement. Without the USSR, To advance his project, He's an acquired ally Churchill saw it very badly. He knows very well any discrepancies So for him, Because the British Prime Minister communist regimes in Without Roosevelt's help, Churchill knows he will not have During this first day, only Everyone is watching. In the tactical game which begins, He proposes that Roosevelt By putting him as president, somewhere, we flatter him, but also, we reduce it because he will have to And during that time, we can negotiate It's very clever This first session Nothing important is decided there, that would not be easy to do So, in the evening, each Churchill thinks alone and calmly, admiring the paintings that Stalin was careful to hang Roosevelt, he elaborates his plan of Second day. Churchill again arrives first, while Stalin is getting This time things The question of Germany is under debate. What fate to reserve for Germany How to administer it? What repairs to require? On all these issues, Discussions begin Since 1944, the country would be divided American, British and Soviet. But now Churchill for France. He doesn't want to be alone anymore who want some So he wants to have this complicity Stalin finally, good prince, will say: the French did not We don't see why. They collaborated. They gave way very quickly in 1940. They don't deserve it. But finally, okay, but then you take it The concession costs him nothing. Stalin gives in quickly. But he takes the opportunity to ask He wants to get the maximum The USSR is ruined. The Boches must pay. This revengeful perspective And this time, the two If we loot Germany and starve how do you pick it up afterwards? It will necessarily be on our own funds, and we are the ones who will pay So it's bad, it's not good. Faced with this refusal, Stalin braces himself. Annoyed, he becomes suspicious. The Soviet takes it on Frankly, Why don't you want Are there no ulterior motives to not want the reconstruction Why do you want So much for the threat. Now the bluff. Stalin will pull out all the stops. And for that, he will rely with whom he forms an unparalleled duo. Both men are masters Molotov is the hard version, it's mister &quot;niet&quot;. He is the one who is not funny, who will usually stay And, in general, the moment it's going to be to soften the angles, to say, &quot;Finally, In the German file, for the amount of repairs. Nothing has been decided Only a minimum In his diary, the diplomat &quot;Molotov, who was sitting lean towards him Do I have to give an amount? -Yes, give the amount, -Which ? Five or ten? -Ten, Stalin slices. >> It's a way to show that nothing is completely decided, for the interlocutors who are opposite. 10 billion for the Soviet Union. It goes. Nobody says anything. Stalin then considers Westerners did not dare to react. But this decision will have Because facing a Germany the Soviets will compensate themselves in kind After this first round of negotiations, each of the Big Three retires Like he usually does, and prepares for the next day's debates. At his desk, even today, At the Livadia Palace, Roosevelt, him, find some rest and For some years, and Roosevelt takes it everywhere with him. She didn't just offer companionship She was very We live and I would say that she was rather who was not paid. It was kind of his right arm. 15 kilometers away, in the Vorontsov, The young woman is an actress she is a voluntary helper Churchill likes The girls are happy to participate. At the same time, they are very happy to show and at the same time, We can make them do things For example, Churchill has because he works in his bed. He is always in his bath to get him out of bed On the other hand, you can send your daughter. In the evening, as during the three big ones are going to invite each other to dinner. The opportunity to continue the The first of these dinners The Americans provide the service, And Stalin made a point of honor You have 15, 20 or 30 course dinners, with caviar, Cream is rationed in England, We forgot. Meanwhile, the people but it has no The whole thing is It is Georgian and Russian munificence. It is: I can do anything. As a host, Psychologically, I am your master, but, It's beautiful and threatening at the same time. So that makes us entirely dependent That's Yalta, among other things. To make its guests feel comfortable and Stalin planned it all. At the table, alcohol flows freely. We know very well that the interlocutor must And the drink is part of it, means that are made available And there, there is a whole game, Alcohol played a role This first dinner brought the Allies closer together. Confidence has settled. Negotiations begin So that everyone plenary sessions take place But in the morning, the collaborators are they at work They imagine compromises The three big ones, then, to decide. On the third day of negotiations, February 6, the Polish file arrives on the table. It's the trickiest part of the conference. It is also the most symbolic, because it is The Allies must put But they don't agree on anything. Since always, Stalin represents a danger to his country. Because throughout history, that Russia was invaded. Stalin wants In fact, he wants all around the soviet union The Soviets wanted Everyone knew that, for the Russians, it was a focal point And when you think about it, if you were a big country you wouldn't want to have You would like friendly states. But what is a friendly country? Is it a friendly country who simply has a foreign policy and who, in domestic politics, Or is a friendly country, is a country that is going to be communised? This is the big question. For the British, no question of having declared to become a communist. After the conflict, Churchill wants Poland Britain was The English did a lot They did not want a country in terms of trade come under communist rule For Roosevelt, far from Europe, But she still has There are 6 million American citizens And these American citizens are voting that is, for Roosevelt's party. It is therefore very sensitive These Polish citizens are fiercely anti-Communist. Most of them before the First World War, Stalin had agreed These Poles of America, support the Polish president in exile in London since 1940. The problem is that in front of him, communist this time. This government under influence It is located in the middle and calls itself the Lublin Committee. The Government of London Because six months ago August 1944. At that time, the Red Army was Raczkiewicz, in London, decides He wants the resisters before the communists, in order to keep But the German response is fierce. For 63 days, Knowingly, Stalin let it happen and 200,000 Poles The Polish capital 2 months later, and set up a government In Yalta, the behavior Churchill never digested Warsaw resistance fighters There, he understood that he did not have and therefore we could not that he was dealing with a dangerous bandit, and that, finally, even if it were necessary we were going to have very problems But now, in Yalta, the Allies must form together The challenge is to know which entity Of course, from the point you have to build from the different components From the point of view it's just about leaving as it exists in Warsaw A showdown ensues. Stalin does not want to hear On the other hand, every time take a step towards him to get into Why would he agree? Stalin knows he is Soviet troops They occupied these countries, even if we didn't dare At any rate, In a way, the influence The Allies fail Gradually, the tone rises. Stalin is more and more agitated. By his side, In his diary, he recounts the scene. "Suddenly Stalin stood up and made Such behavior when wasn't really appropriate. He started talking Stalin is very taciturn except a few times So those times The act of getting up and to have all of a sudden it's a way to show the things on which The Soviet tirade Hopkins, who witnesses the disaster, who chairs the discussions. &quot;Why not end Say we'll talk about it Better stop the fees and try to leave The mastery with which is obvious to everyone. Uncle Joe, wields power In the evening, in his room, "Uncle Joe is He is very calm and reserved. When he intervenes, and goes straight to the point. >> The British Secretary of State "By subtle methods, without seeming to persist. &quot;. However, all the merit solely to his talent as a negotiator. Because what Eden that's what uncle joe does Even before he knew everything. Preparing for the conference At the time, the services were very well established Our agents gave us on how Churchill and Roosevelt We knew what and what position they were going To not miss anything, the Russian secret service That, Churchill and Roosevelt know. What they don't know is that, obviously, for the things But in the park, we posed which are everywhere. There are some in the trees, and they pick up conversations Stalin does not take He doesn't want to miss a beat. It even demands that tell him everything that was said. Stalin asked how He even asked with the intonation that Churchill In the game the cards are rigged. Stalin knows the game of his adversaries. He knows exactly where he's going where its partners are On the fourth day of negotiations, Thanks to the listenings of the day before, Stalin knows that his allies are to achieve other For Roosevelt, what matters, For Churchill, this is an issue that but which is underlying, that of Greece. The country is an ancient It's an issue because Greece is opening which allows them But for two years, Greece has been Communists try They run the campaigns If Greece switches to communism, it's the whole empire Churchill dreads To avoid it, he therefore took the lead In October 1944, the British Prime Minister has face to face. Roosevelt was then for his re-election. taking advantage of the absence Churchill then proposed When we talk about sharing the world, it was in Moscow, when Churchill The document, is written by hand Like two grocers, percentages 90% for Russia in Romania, 90% for Great Britain in Greece. In Yalta, Churchill hopes And so that the Soviet the British Prime Minister is This agreement of percentages contrasts obviously with the idea and who absolutely would not have on the question of zones So as not to offend Stalin, by showing off On the fourth day of negotiations, the American and the British let go and recognize the government In return, that non-Communist ministers Stalin also undertakes to organize free elections as well as in all countries This word &quot;free election&quot; rings even if they didn't get All they could get from Stalin, it was statements face-saving They almost got there. What do they But how to imagine when the territory is completely That's where there's an illusion Because in exchange for these promises, Westerners grant They allow him by attaching a part In compensation, Poland will recover The country will thus carry out In the Polish file, The Soviet got His allies now hope This February 8, it's sunny Roosevelt is nervous because the talks The American president has absolutely To put all Roosevelt then invites Stalin to share Churchill was not warned. The meeting between the two allies Roosevelt fears does not prevent him from negotiating Then the American president believes He believed he could develop a And I believe Roosevelt felt thanks to this relationship But that doesn't work He did not imagine and free from all human feeling. At the same time, in the Pacific, Americans know facing a fanatical Japanese army. Without the help of the Russians, that the war could last another year Roosevelt is determined Stalin knows it In exchange for cannon fodder And the marshal is greedy. He claims But also the occupation and a path Negotiations do not bear because it belongs to japan to give Japanese territory Dairen and Port-Arthur, it's more annoying China is Chiang Kai-shek. Chiang Kai-shek, and he was not invited to Yalta. Roosevelt can therefore be done to make concessions That is very annoying. But Stalin tries With his charm, he will manage and to be accepted Charles Bohlen, interpreter of Roosevelt, &quot;Stalin said it was clear that it would be difficult for him, to explain why the Soviet Union It is clear that Roosevelt was annoyed Roosevelt hesitates. But in the face of intransigence the American swallows his scruples. What matters to him Go for Dairen and Port-Arthur. Roosevelt sacrifices the Chinese. He'll figure it out later once the war is over. The American President He fulfilled his objectives. On Japan, This new organization has the ambition Stalin agreed Effective participation but it is already a first step. It's a big concession to make him admit that he is going for preliminary negotiations. Even that is a big Stalin keeps saying: "If it happens, your thing Do I go He knows how to play it very well. It is an artist. Sixth day of negotiations. This February 9, 1945, Churchill, Roosevelt their good humor in front of the cameras. UN, Japan, Germany, the big three have found compromises and everyone got Churchill won He raised France He assigned him The American President, on the UN and on Japan. With Churchill, he also snatched free elections in Poland But it's the Marshal Unquestionably, who emerge victorious Stalin got and he got more or less this in any case, the principle of reparations. The image of a perfect harmony between It is, however, misleading. In Yalta, Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill They wanted to preserve the Alliance, while the war But deep down, each of them and its own interests. The Yalta Accords are precarious. They are the result of compromise between three exceptional personalities. On the last day of negotiations, In the evening, friendship between peoples But this hope won't last The agreement that the big three Just three weeks Stalin violates the Yalta Accords. In Romania, while the Army he organizes the catch Poland, each time his allies propose to enter the government, Stalin refuses it. Roosevelt, so far After Yalta, Roosevelt He noticed did not match On April 1, a long telegram in order to obtain explanations. &quot;I can't hide from you in front of the way in which unfold, since our successful events Honestly I can't understand why recent events like not falling But Roosevelt's warnings Without the slightest scruple, and keep installing Roosevelt dies for 11 days He will never see Churchill, who, to everyone's surprise, should attend, In Yalta, the big three to this long-awaited world of peace. The dream of brotherhood Soon, yesterday's allies clashing in a conflict the Cold War.