It's the dream of every You see something in the physical print it out in an exact replica Up until recently, this has only been cost tens of thousands of dollars, These days all of that is changing, and just more available to consumers, we're grade 3D scanners hit the market. But are they any good? I tested three different solutions for going to compare them all and tell you which one is the best. Oh, and stick around to the end question that's on everyone's mind. Should you get a 3D scanner? Let's dive in. The contenders. First things first, ladies and gentlemen. But if you look at my YouTube analytics, Let me present our three In the left corner, weighing the Creality CR-Scan Lizard. Now, I got this scanner by and then waiting, and waiting, like forever, but we'll get into It boasts 0.05 millimeter accuracy, markerless scanning, easy to use No, but we're still gonna talk about it. And in the right corner, weighing in at a I originally discovered this scanner and was blown away by the quality of the scans Now after a few months of back and me this unit free of charge for review. However, no money changed hands. While you could say that, this makes you could also say that I would be I would want to make myself feel I also like to think that I'm enough different companies that I preferential treatment over another. Besides, of course, my actual Anyways, the Revopoint Mini boasts blue light, high speed scanning, form factor, and much, much more. Oh my God, Jim, what's this We have the iPhone 14 Pro Max with. Polycam installed. I can't believe it! No, this isn't a 3D scanner, but with the LiDAR, and photogrammetry, you just know The iPhone 14 Pro Max boasts not being shelves, patented you-already-own-it technology, the always in your pocket the other contenders on this list, and is internet connected, and it By the way, I'm sure that there are you could use Polycam, but I don't use so I'm just gonna use the term iPhone So, deal with it. You can tell me nicely in the And now let's get ready Let's, let's just scan some stuff. So as we just mentioned, it's going iPhone when it comes to convenience. You know it, you love it. Let's not waste any time on it. Instead, let's focus When you first plug them in, a few things First of all, the Creality scanner not separate power cable, which is annoying. And then once you plug it in, you'll loud and obnoxious booming. It's also heavy and I wouldn't want to this massive suitcase that they provide. Compare this with the Revopoint cable that goes into the computer, It has a tiny form factor, a little will fit nicely into your pocket, even Heck, you can even break down the and put that in your pocket as well. There's also a super convenient button to start your scan, even though the The winner of this round with While on the surface you might be deal, the reality is, at least in my more important than the actual hardware. That's because it doesn't actually at picking up the actual points. If the software doesn't do a good enough frustrating to use the software that and this is where we come to the first You see, when Creality originally this product, it was intended to ship with And from the limited time that I did half decent with auto noise removal, You can actually even still see But then before the units even shipped, this software infringed on their IP, delay shipment for months and months, you to use their CR Studio 2.0 app. I'll be honest with you guys, I thing and the software to play nicely. I needed to get some profile files from wrong camera to scan, and then even on the wasn't intuitive or fun to use at all. Which mode do I need, points or faces? What's with this wavelength on the side? Am I supposed to center it or try to get Don't get me wrong, it looks amazing. It's just that it sucks. Scans don't align properly. There's no clear tooltip. There isn't nearly enough documentation Compare this with the Revo scan software which although extremely simplistic There are no funky menus or modes that I don't understand. There is manual and auto for brightness scanning, pause or stop scanning. A simple slider tells me if I'm too far all of my scans as soon as I complete In my testing, Revo Scan didn't even remove it manually in the software at covered it in sublimation spray, My only real criticism of the Revo get the alignments right, it takes I would venture to guess that this is for Apple silicone because I'm running my MacBook Pro with silly fast graphics anything, even heavy 3D files should take Finally, let's talk about the iPhone beat the user experience of an iPhone app. And indeed the Polycam app You just select if you are scanning and then choose whether you want One thing that I loved about the gives you haptic feedback as Kind of like when you first train you know, even if you don't actually a good job and scanning well. Polycam also has the added benefit web device, making it extremely click of a button to any app that Now, I'm not sure if Polycam processes free trial version because you do need And while it said that it would finish know how long it took because I had and when I went back into the app, I It just hadn't updated. The winner of this round Though, Jim, I gotta say I'm really the ring and isn't even part of the Back to you. Hey there, one quick second. We're gonna get right back into today's this video's sponsor, which I'm really I've recently switched to Onshape do a whole video all about that. But in the meantime, let me just tell you Number one, first and foremost, no matter is fully cloud-based and works like upgrading my designs or even designing a iPhone and it works even in one of the It actually works, which is crazy to me. The other reason I really love super easy to use, is that unlike out there, Onshape has no intention They just wanna support the greater purpose of their business is They're happy to give us access to the forever, and they've assured me that companies out there, that is something So to check out Onshape in anticipation pretty soon on why I've switched just go ahead and hit the link below. Doing so really helps out this really gonna enjoy Onshape like I do. Anyway, let's get back to today's video. Here we go. We are going to get into the scan results let's first talk about the prices. When I bought the CR Scan Lizard, I got turntable for about $450 US shipped. Now that the Kickstarter is over, you're Now, that might seem like a lot, but commercial scanners, it's actually product firmly in the consumer range. As for the Revopoint Mini, it At a third more expensive That might put it out of range for your that might or might not be flawed thinking Finally, we have the iPhone and Polycam could argue that this option costs with export privileges, if you already I actually think it's fairer to say difference between the iPhone 14 Pro The winner of this round by Polycam, but only by technicality. For our main contenders, it's definitely All right. Let's now talk about How well do they actually scan? I compared these scanners on a variety tests were not fully comprehensive, black electronic devices to relatively with both of the dedicated scanners. Despite what Creality may advertise sublimating spray, like this bottle that just dry shampoo, was an absolute must. First, let's start out I'm gonna put it bluntly. I hate this piece of junk. Although Creality support was as I actually put off this review for with the hassle of using this product. I'm not sure if it's the hardware or Creality has had legal troubles, but any third party alternatives available. So unlike with 3D printers, the or break part of the experience. And this software reminds me of the Truly beautiful and colorful, try to use it, it stinks, and Honestly, I have neither the time nor of my life trying to get a decent So if you were hoping for me to do accuracy where I print out different Up next, let's check out While it does get points for effort, the of including everything that the need to manually go in and remove in a software like Maya or Blender. But if I were going to spend the time go into CAD and model the stuff myself. And that's only the beginning significantly lower quality with jagged fine detail than the other scans. In the end, Polycam's model reminds me They're nice and all, and I really want the day, I really have no use for them. Finally, let's talk about the list, the Revopoint Mini. As I said before, I figured out sublimating spray was, as Revopoint absolute must for darker objects. So once I applied it, did the Yeah. I'm actually a little bit shocked to CR Scan and the long saga I had with it. But after doing four or five I had a half decent rough draft. And while I could have done a few more sublimating spray, I was find my camera under all of it. So instead, I opted to take the and fill holds features of the software. And to my surprise, the Good enough that I'm actually going to print my very own camera accessories. So stay tuned for that. Strictly by using the auto with no manual tweaking, I was actually range of objects, including silk PLA, you probably don't wanna see on video. No, not that you perverts. I'm talking about my dental guard. Jeez. Jim, I think it's pretty clear that the fourth round, and while I don't I'm pretty sure that if one person up until that point matter at all. The winner by knockout, With the fight now over and our champion me now do what all TV commentators I know very little about to keep you Jim, I think the question on everybody's buy a 3D scanner for 3D printing? Given the fact that the only usable option Mini, I'm going to have to say that for With things like Onshape being free for models available on sites like Printables, for everything but the most complicated either download readily available And what's more doing so is a will really serve you as you go about With that said, your time is valuable that you can't find online from Plus, I can easily think of basically pay for the entire cost My dad, for example, has these are made of polycarbonate and they and they cost like $250 a pair. If I use this scanner to scan his existing for pennies for three different pairs paid for the entire cost of the scanner. And the same is true of a lot of At the same time, $799 is a lot of the $450 that I spent on this CR Scan So while I really, really like the in 3D printing for a living now, and I $799 price tag for it just for enhancing be honest and admit that I don't think this product for just casual at-home use. Don't get me wrong, it's a great value. But something tells me that like every industry to consumer grade, this is only going to see the prices of them really I don't think we're that far away just like this, really will be a much like many of the high quality entry The bottom line. If you have a specific use case right things that you can't find online, product at an incredible price. The Creality Scan Lizard, not so much. For the casual enthusiasts I think it's worth waiting a few Thank you so much for watching, leaving your comments below. Live, live, live. Hit the subscribe button for more content. And a special and heartfelt thank helping me turn this into a full-time That's all for now, but I'll see Live on pay-per-view, Jonathan How the hell am I gonna get