- Why in the world of the competition to replace The United States Air Force their 747 Doomsday Fleet that could realistically just newer ones. But just the other week, when they confirmed from the competition completely. So how is that possible these jets then who can? Stay tuned. (playful chime) So to start off with, what are these 747 Well, I really hope that you because military programs tends to be absolutely full of them and that also includes the aircraft that we will be looking at today, the Boeing E-4B Nightwatch. Now some of you might be wondering why am I even doing a video on this. It's clearly a military aircraft and I normally only Well, the answer, on top of the fact that I love everything that has to do with the Queen of the Skies, is that this story gives us a really good insight into how Boeing are doing right now and how they plan to look after themselves Now, I'll get back to that part later but first, let's have a look at a little background to all of this. The Boeing E-4Bs are part the National Emergency or NEACP but you might have heard of it simply referred to as kneecap. As the acronym suggests, to operate as mobile command post in case of war, more takes out the normal groundbased The idea is that whatever happens even if another country would accomplish a first nuclear strike, the United States still will have the ability to deliver a retaliatory strike on the attacker from basically anywhere. Now you might have heard called nuclear deterrence and well, this aircraft is basically the admin work behind that concept. In order to have the ability the NEACP aircraft that allow them to speak with, well, basically any communication be it in the air, on land, or even under the surface. You could think of them as probably the world's advanced and potentially, Of course, all of this if the animal-source fertilizer but in peace time, the planes still have some other roles to play. For example, whenever the US president travels internationally, and lands either at the same airport or somewhere within On top of that, one of the planes is also often used when is traveling internationally. But note that NEACP that these aircrafts are part of. The E-4B itself is referred to as the Advanced Airborne Command Post or AACP and when one of them are flying and operating actively, it's called a National Airborne As you can see, there are Now I've actually mentioned in a previous video where I talked about the different and in that video, I also explained that the E4s are actually older than the two VC-25As, as Air Force One. Like the VC-25As, on the airframe of the Boeing 747-200. There are four of them in use right now and the first two were actually initially built as commercial 747-200s but the airline that ordered them never took delivery of them. So these first two jets entered service in 1974 with the designation E-4A and they weren't actually A fleet of specially-modified KC-135 air-refueling tankers but with a designation EC-135J. When these first two they basically had the same equipment for their missions as the but then the third and it incorporated more improvements including newer and better engines. The fourth jet got the designation E-4B thanks to even more improvements, including that extra That hump basically is and later, the other three aircraft were upgraded to match In their final form, and even have the ability or electromagnetic pulse They also Incorporated with countermeasures against missiles and, obviously, we have no idea But because these aircraft need to be able to with understand an EMP, things like their cockpit avionics reportedly remain analog the steam gauges that the And obviously, that's because may be less capable or maybe it's simply to make newer avionics So why change them if the older stuff is still working, I guess? But finally, as I explained these aircraft have what must be the world's longest flying antenna, a cable that when fully extended can be five miles allowing the planes to send messages to submarines literally Now all of this is quite impressive but 1974, when these was 49 years ago already flew in 1978, 45 years ago. Now I'm sure that more upgrades here and there have probably but no matter how you see it, these planes have been The Air Force have actually to replace the E-4Bs several times but unsuccessfully, so far, for example, the subject and the idea there was for several different roles airborne radar as well as everything that the E-4B fleet today can do but that obviously didn't happen. The US Air Force instead called the KC-46 for the airborne radar to replace the AWACS. It is also pretty clear to the E-4Bs can't be either a 767 or a 737 because the Air Force to have four engines. Now a project to provide as vital as this is quite prestigious for any aircraft manufacturer, similar to making the country's the Air Force One. So Boeing's elimination well a bit strange to say the least, no? So what's actually going on? Are Boeing not up to the challenge or is there something else going on here? Well, it turns out that but I will explain all of it after this... Are you enjoying all that I'm making? The reason I'm asking you should definitely Curiosity Stream, which I'm so Curiosity Stream to watch award-winning documentary films, shows and series that A great example which I think that you guys will really like is Supersonic: The Great Adventure which I just finished. It's a documentary about supersonic fighter jets which was just seriously super cool. But if you like a break from aviation then Curiosity Stream also covers science, nature, history, technology, military history, music, food... Well, you get the idea. There's definitely something for everyone. And the best part is with plans starting On top of that, they also offer depending on what fits your wallet so if you want to try then go to curiositystream.com/mentournow or scan this QR code. This will give you access and if you use the it will give you an awesome 25% discount on the annual subscription. So go to curiositystream.com/mentournow and save 25% right now. Thank you, Curiosity Stream. Now back to the video. To replace the E-4B Fleet, launched another program the Survivable Airborne The full details of this program a System Requirements Document or SRD and, big surprise, But a broad description so we know that the Air Force to be about the same size And to make sure of this project doesn't take forever, they also expect bidding companies to used secondhand commercial airliners as the platforms for the project. Now that's quite important that the Air Force wants for this role isn't really being produced anymore. You see the Air Force insist that the new Doomsday Planes must still have four engines for reasons that have to do with redundancy but also with survivability. Now you, regular viewers, of this channel will know that today twin-engine aircraft are constantly spanning because their engines are so reliable. But maybe, unsurprisingly, the military has some For example, a military air crew on a mission might actually need to keep the jet in the air something that we, in the would generally not do. We instead tend to divert if we would lose an engine. So to recap, we know of the E-4Bs will one, to the current planes; two, it should be a modification which can be produced relatively quickly and three, it should have four engines. Obviously then, using existing makes sense because neither the 747 nor any other commercial airliner with four engines is Some other aircraft might But the point here is that whoever wins this competition will almost certainly have to find and modify a fleet of moderately used Boeing 747s, most likely the latest -8 model So the most obvious question here is how could Boeing lose this contract? After all, the 747 is their design. Well, the short answer to this is that Boeing didn't exactly lose it. You see, Boeing knew had one or two key conditions in this contract which And to understand what that means, we need to have a look at the way that Boeing has been handling these type of military One of the bigger ones that the company has taken in over the past few years is the presidential VC-25B, aka the next Air Force One Boeing is also right now for NASA which technically isn't military but it falls on the Boeing's defense and space side of the business. And what all of these three programs have in common is that well, they have all been serious and have cost them a mountain of money. To win the contracts Boeing agreed to a which means that any unforeseen cost that might arise during the development would have to be covered Now I am simplifying because contracts like these of these phases have rigidly fixed prices. But the point is that these can really catch out the manufacturer, especially if the bidding process gets a bit, well, competitive. Boeing learned this the hard way when they competed against Airbus for the contract to construct Boeing eventually won that contract after quite a protracted battle. But with the benefit of hindsight, this wasn't such a You see the initial fixed-price for the program was $4.9 billion and so far, Boeing adding up to around $6.8 billion for it. But of course, that's not This is a huge contract for the Air Force will be So Boeing will still make money from the KC-46 tankers numbers of sales which likely will be as high as around 176 in the US and then on top of that, foreign deals. But the situation is a lot harder for Boeing's accountants to motivate when it comes to more for fewer aircraft or According to Reuters, over $16 billion on fixed-price since 2014 and it seems like they are keen to show their investors from those mistakes. So when it comes to the or SAOC which will replace the Doomsday E-4Bs, that the US Air Force eliminated them from the selection process &quot;We are approaching all with added discipline our commitments and support the longterm health of our business.&quot; And speaking to Boeing's investors, Brian West, Boeing's had specifically said that the company hasn't signed any fixed-price nor do they intend But one really interesting thing here is that it looks like Boeing that it's all over for them in this story because in their most recent announcement, they also added, &quot;We remain confident that our SAOC approach technically mature for the customer and for Boeing. And that looks suspiciously and maybe even a dig at their competitor. But the obvious question are the lowest risk solution Who else could possibly find and then modify a fleet of 747s or other large four-engine jets to make them suitable for this program? Well, the full list of bidders for this contract is, again, But one company that we do know is bidding to do this They were previously described as the underdog in this competition but with Boeing gone, maybe these guys have Sierra Nevada Corporation might not be very well-known publicly but they have been a contractor for a number of military ever since they were founded back in 1963. Among their most recent programs are the rocket motors But they've also done quite Jeff Besoz's Blue Origin A slightly less known that they're developing not as a contractor a space vehicle for NASA. That's a lifting body design that, hopefully, will carry people and cargo to and from the International Sierra Nevada already have a pretty large complex in Dayton, Ohio and last summer, they finished building a new hangar which forms part of their bid for the It is their fourth hanger in that facility with an area of 90,000 square feet or 8,360 square meters, to fit Boeing 747-8s. The company has stated to participate in this which is no small because the Air Force expects that this program is going which is a pretty high bill, Now one detail that which might explain this high price tag is the number of new aircraft that the Air Force wants in this deal. Like I said before, were ever made, all of But for the next program, of this new aircraft instead. We don't really know the details behind this decision but it appears that the Air Force expect to fly this next Doomsday Plane more frequently, perhaps just like they did with its EC-135Js during the Cold War. Of course this means will have to show shop around for up to 10 747-8 passenger airliners then buy them before they And here, it's important to know already told the Air Force the necessary aircraft Like I said, I'm not so sure Sierra Nevada haven't actually confirmed that they will use 747-8s despite building a hangar big enough to fit one. But the company has confirmed that they have selected to use and that they've also All of this is important because involving existing airliner designs, the US Air Force have insisted that the aircraft needs to comply with FAA certification requirements for new types which became a huge and very expensive problem for Boeing in the case And that's because, as I explained in that order video, about 250 miles in the next Air Force Ones with newer standards, didn't really have to comply with since their designs were grandfathered in. A new design needs a new certification and could therefore not use and that's what's going on. And, of course, after all of that rewiring had been done, they also had to fit all that all of the new systems The next Doomsday Planes a lot of new systems which would have to be taken into account. So this contract might well face exactly the same type of issue. But the thing here is that those systems will be different from on Air Force One to modify the Doomsday Planes in the same way as they did to save time and money. Now one interesting detail here about Sierra Nevada Corporation is that as a contractor, and developing modifications in existing aircraft even without the original manufacturer's participation. That could come in really handy for this kind of work But we don't know has in performing this work Of course, we also don't actually know if the US Air Force will still want the certification of these planes like they did with the Air Force One. And if they drop that requirement, well then this would One way or another, this contract early in 2024, at least that's what the analysts expected to happen last summer. And unless that timeline changes, it might well be that Boeing and they might just be happy with that. Again, this is a very so we don't even know if Sierra Nevada is the only company remaining or maybe someone But as for Boeing... What do you guys think? Is this a case of Boeing failing to meet the Air Force's standards or is Boeing actually I'd love to hear what you think. Put your comment and also can you think of any other aircraft as a Doomday Plane This is definitely something that I will discuss with my Patreons on my next Patreon Zoom hang out and I would love to Thank you all for watching. I love having you here and maybe even send Have an absolutely fantastic day wherever you are Bye-bye.