Franklin Delano Roosevelt was the longest year in office from 1933-1945. He steered the nation through its worst economic war in history. Though facing titanic physical challenges fortitude and sense of morale that was required In today's Biographics we examine the inspirational Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Early Years Franklin Delano Roosevelt was born on January Ann Delano Roosevelt, in Hyde Park, New York. James recorded the event in his diary that At quarter to nine my Sallie had a splendid born. Baby weighs ten pounds without clothes. It wasn't an easy birth. In fact, both mother and baby nearly died by the doctor. Despite being born not breathing, Franklin His raised in a privileged family, living Roosevelt family for more than a century. The Roosevelts were of Dutch extraction, having They became an Americans success story, due industries. Franklin's father, a Harvard Law School the Delaware and Hudson Railway and also served Company. His income and his inheritance allowed him never been very good. Sara Delano was the second wife of James. Her existence revolved around caring for her As a result, the majority of Franklin's his mother. Sara was an overly protective parent. She came to feel resentful of anyone else Meanwhile, James was often the absent father. Young Franklin benefited from the privileges When he was five years old, he visited the President Grover Cleveland spoke to him personally, I have just one wish for you, young man, that States. A Privileged Childhood Franklin didn't attend school. Instead his father employed a private tutor He was an able student who applied himself Each summer, Franklin and Sara would vacation There would also be an annual trip to Europe. During these stays, Franklin learned to speak As he grew older, Franklin became an avid He played lawn tennis and polo, rode horses In his teens he also took golf and sailing It was customary for children of privilege But Sara considered that her glorious boy and delayed the move for two years. At fourteen, she enrolled him at the Groton This school was attended by the children of Although it was a shock for Franklin to suddenly He soon adjusted to dormitory life. He played a number of sports and became a as the choir. He graduated from the school in June, 1900 a spot at Harvard University in Cambridge, A Harvard Man his first year at Harvard. He joined a number of clubs on campus and He excelled in the college environment, becoming Towards the end of 1900, Franklin's father The following year, another death profoundly President William McKinley was killed by an Franklin's distant cousin, Theodore Roosevelt This change of events served to pique Franklin's He wrote a college paper titled 'The Roosevelts in the old Dutch family Bible. Eleanor Roosevelt ready to graduate. Yet he chose to stay on for another year in Crimson newspaper. One day in the summer of 1902, he was heading New York when he happened upon eighteen-year-old The two hit it off immediately and from that Franklin was captivated by Eleanor's intellectual Things got serious in 1903 with Franklin, asking for Eleanor's hand in marriage. She eagerly agreed and wanted the wedding Franklin's mother, Sara, was not happy with Whether she had something specifically against by any woman getting between her and her beloved She convinced Franklin to at least delay the 17, 1905. Eleanor, who was an orphan, was given away The young couple honeymooned in Europe. Upon return to New York, Franklin returned In May, 1906, Eleanor gave birth to their The following year Franklin passed the New He secured his first job as a law clerk at A second child, James, came along in December, During 1907, Franklin's mother, Sara had on 65th Street, New York. It was to be a present to the couple, with The living spaces were separated by a single While grateful, Eleanor was frustrated at making decisions that should have been Eleanor's This was a difficult time in Eleanor's life. Children were coming along regularly, yet mother'. She went so far as to write that she did not She hired a nanny and increasingly spent her as working for improved factory conditions Politician in 1910, when he became a delegate to the He was then asked if he wanted to run for It was assumed that the siting assemblyman Franklin was enthused, but then found out at all. There was, though, an opening to run for New With no experience but plenty of enthusiasm, endeared him to the working people of the He faced an uphill battle with the state being However, on election day he found himself He was now the New York State Senator. The Roosevelts now rented out their house in Albay, New York. Franklin soon became embroiled in political A powerful faction of the New York Democratic party for decades. Roosevelt, however, was not one to be told He was not going to be anybody's puppet. He stated his opposition to the Tammany Hall were known in the papers as 'the little Through his adherence to principal and his a reputation as man who would stand up for As his first term in office drew to a close, and, which has a 20% kill rate. He recovered in time to vigorously campaign which he won by 1,700 votes. Moving Up who won the Presidency in 1912. Wilson set about rewarding those who had stood In due course Roosevelt was offered the position It was the same position that distant cousin Franklin now gave up his state senate seat Roosevelt's new job had him traveling the He soon discovered that the navy was ill-prepared a naval reserve of 50,00 men along with increased Roosevelt didn't seem to care that his words His only interest was in bolstering the navy. This attitude earned him respect across the With the outbreak of war in Europe in August, to his work of building up the US Navy. He excelled in the role and won many advantages With the 1916 presidential election, Roosevelt's If Wilson was returned to office, he would Navy Secretary, but if a Republican moved be unceremoniously dumped. It was an extremely close fought race, with "the most extraordinary day of my life." At the end of the day, Wilson won out to retain With America's entry into the war in 1917, He was instrumental in the drive to elicit as the development of mine detonation technology. The pressures of his work kept Roosevelt away of time. He began an affair with the social secretary on and off, until his death. The woman's name was Lucy Mercer. Some time in 1918, Eleanor found letters between They revealed that Franklin was planning to However, Franklin's mother refused to permit ruin his political career. From that point on, the Roosevelt's marriage Eleanor soon set up a separate home in Hyde herself into her social work. The break in their marriage was so severe to come back and live with him, due to his In September of 1918, Roosevelt made a state facilities. On the return trip on board the USS Leviathan, A number of people died and Roosevelt became However, he recovered before reaching New Vice Presidential Bid Roosevelt began looking towards his next run After much consultation he decided to campaign His bid was successful and he found himself Cox, who was running for president. Roosevelt resigned as assistant secretary half on the campaign trail. He championed Woodrow Wilson's League of The 1920 election ended up being a resounding Harding securing the presidency. Struck Down to New York to pick up his law practice. In August 1921, the family were vacationing illness. It was believed that he had contracted poliomyelitis, the waist down. More recent analysis suggests that it may, Guillain-Barre syndrome. Sara urged her son to retire from public life But his closest advisers, including wife Eleanor, He should continue his public career which, the White House. Thus encouraged, he spent the next few years If he couldn't walk unaided, he would at He taught himself to walk a few paces with of a cane. He was determined that the public would not In 1926, Roosevelt financed the building of Georgia. He spent much of his time there throughout During his rehab years, Roosevelt maintained In 1925 he was appointed chairman of the Taconic Then, in 1928, he reluctantly ran for Governor He won by a margin of just one percent. His governorship was marked by a focus on hydrostatic power plants and the institution directly over the radio to the people of New Winning reelection in 1930, Roosevelt introduced suffering from the effects of the depression. He also established a number of commissions POTUS most dynamic state, Roosevelt was a frontrunner in 1932. He won the nomination at the Democratic National In his acceptance speech he promised . . . for the American people... This is more than a political campaign. It is a call to arms. Roosevelt ran on a platform of government of prohibition. On the strength of these policies and his the popular vote to become the 32nd President After taking the oath of office, Roosevelt for its famous first line: that the only thing we have to fear is...fear terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert After the inaugural address, a woman by the like that in times like these is worthy of Roosevelt assumed office in the midst of the States had ever faced. Unemployment was at 25 percent, banks had two million people were homeless. Roosevelt dedicated himself to saving the He would do so by putting in place the relief needed, restructuring systems that were broken A key to achieving that invigoration were but now to a national audience. He spoke to the American people as a loving During his first term, Roosevelt established These included the Federal Relief Administration provided employment to a quarter of a million In August, 1935 he signed the Social Security and the elderly. From 1935, Roosevelt embarked on his second community. Wholesale changes were made to the banking for the everyday man. By 1936, Roosevelt's policies and personality in history. The election that year was a landslide victory, Maine and Vermont. During his second term, Roosevelt spent a to many of the programs he had brought in In 1936, the Supreme Court was largely conservative. However, by 1941, Roosevelt had appointed War other European nations, Roosevelt pursued However, by mid-1938, with public opinion toward the Jews, he began building up the When the war broke out in September, 1939, Britain and France. Roosevelt struck up a great friendship with Minister in May, 1940. The United States began supplying an increasing at the same time, continuing to build up its The Fall of France after just six weeks was From that point forward, the majority of people in the European war. In 1940, Roosevelt made the decision to run There had been a tradition of limiting Presidency's However, Roosevelt was convinced that a change would be disastrous for the country. Throwing himself into the campaign, he won of the popular vote and 38 of 48 states. Throughout 1941, Roosevelt became overtly He became furious when Hitler began threatening . . . of the world on which our ships may travel. The American flag is not going to be driven airplanes, or his threats. On December 7th, 1941, more than 350 Japanese on the US Naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Some three thousand people lost their lives. Dozens of ships were sunk and many planes The next day, President Roosevelt addressed Yesterday, December 7, 1941, a date which America was suddenly and deliberately attacked He then asked Congress to declare war on the Within days the declaration of war was extended Franklin Roosevelt was now a wartime President. As the US war machine rolled into action with the European and Pacific theatres of war, the home front. His main vehicle for achieving this was still On February 23rd, 1942 he told the nation Here are three high purposes for every American: We shall not stop work for a single day. If any dispute arises, we shall keep on working or conciliation or arbitration--until the 2. We shall not demand special gains or special group or occupation. 3. We shall give up conveniences and modify the to do so. We will do it cheerfully, remembering that and every freedom in every part of our land. With the Americans having just entered the the Battle of Stalingrad. The Nazis were finally being pushed back toward Roosevelt and his generals were convinced the Nazis into submission. The planning for a grand invasion of Western Throughout 1942 and '43, Roosevelt had a including Churchill, Josef Stalin and Chinese On June 5th, 1944, President Roosevelt addressed . . . to American and Allied troops. The first of the Axis capitals is now in our One up and two to go! The following day a major step was taken in On the morning of June 6th, 1944, hundreds beaches of Normandy. After fierce fighting the German army was Now the Nazis were being squeezed from both It was now clear to Roosevelt that an Allied He began to place his focus on the logistics He spoke of the allies as a group of 'United He was convinced that only a world wide union Roosevelt's championing of what was to become Woodrow Wilson's dream, which had been imperfectly With the 1944 Presidential election rapidly . . . to my home on the Hudson River, to avoid public which in us democracy follows every step of Such would be my choice. But we of this generation chance to live in and when its future existence and the future are at stake." Roosevelt ran for a fourth term, but did not Still, he won again. He was now set to serve out sixteen years But that wasn't to be. Failing Health The stresses of the war had taken a heavy He was now sixty-two years old. He looked weary, suffered from high blood During the summer of 1944 he came down with He was still sick when he travelled by ship 3' conference with Churchill and Stalin. At this conference the division of Germany Roosevelt was exhausted when he arrived back People commented that he looked like he was They were not far wrong. Death of a President All Roosevelt wanted to do now was to sleep. At the beginning of April, he managed to escape Georgia. On the morning of April 12th, he sat while They stopped for lunch at 1pm. Fifteen minutes later, he complained that Then he slumped to the ground. He was experiencing a massive cerebral hemorrhage. Franklin Delano Roosevelt died at 3:35 pm It was just 27 days before the war in Europe Having guided his country through its worst was finally at peace. Historians consistently rank Roosevelt, George greatest presidents. FDR biographer Jean Edward Smith wrote of to lift the nation from its knees.&quot;