In a time before the events of The Lord of the ancient line of the Kings Gondor and Arnor. whispered promise of hope amidst the gathering Join us as we uncover the events that forged lost adventures of his youth, the secret trails fought in the dark corners of the world. the wisdom gleaned from ancient lore, and This is not merely a tale of a young king the precipice of darkness, but of a boy whose heart remained steadfast in In the secluded heart of Eriador's and his beloved wife Ivorwen. Each had offering them the ability to peer into the future Beneath their watchful gaze, blossomed into a radiant young woman. Like her beauty captivated all who beheld her. drawn to her in ways that spoke of Arathorn, son of the Chieftain of the Dunedain, made it known that he desired to wed the But Dirhael, her father, was hesitant. For Gilraen to be considered for marriage. And yet more him to see that this path would lead to great and saw that he was destined for only a he would not consent to his beloved daughter Yet Ivorwen, also possessed the gift of sight she beheld something more; a glimmer would one day rise to light the Dunedain's she believed this love would bring forth To this marriage Dirhael was opposed; for Gilraen women of the Dunedain were accustomed to marry. man of full age, and will be chieftain heart forebodes that he will be short-lived.'' answered: ''The more need of haste! The and great things are to come. If these two but if they delay, it will not Thus, Dirhael yielded to the course of destiny, sake of their people's future. And so it came and he took the fair maiden's hand in marriage. In the following year, tragedy struck as battle with hill trolls. And so, the mantle of in the year 2931 of the Third the fragile light of hope that was This boy would grow up in the shadow of loss, rode out in pursuit of orcs, never to return. Arathorn's eye and stealing him from this world, Dirhael's grim prophecy had come to pass now a widow wrapped in grief, knew the weight of hope in a world growing dim. And so she seeking safety and wisdom beneath the watchful Elrond was as kind as summer and stepped into the void left by Aragorn's lost father In Elrond, the young Aragorn found a beacon Under Elrond's vigilant watch, Aragorn was gifted strength and character, fostering within him the The face of Elrond was ageless, neither old nor things both glad and sorrowful. His hair was dark circlet of silver; his eyes were grey as a clear stars. Venerable he seemed as a king crowned with the fulness of his strength. He was the Lord of In a quest to shield the child from harm, meaning ''Hope.'' The child's true name for Elrond was acutely aware that the dark if that ancient bloodline Aragon would immerse himself in the ethereal beneath the whispering embrace of the snow amidst the timeless beauty of this secluded haven, he would blossom, his heart entwining with 'Have you often been to Rivendell?' said Frodo. and still I return when I may. There my heart is; but it is not my fate to sit in peace, When Aragorn was but a boy of ten summers, of a company of wanderers, their journey taking nestled over the Misty Mountains Gandalf the Grey, wise and mysterious, and the company of Thorin Oakenshield and his loyal band in Rivendell, yet whether or not their paths During his time spent in Rivendell, Aragorn would the twin sons of Elrond and Celebrian. It was into the warrior's way, mastering the art of The twins frequently set out on their quests a profound and burning loathing, a fire Their relentless animosity toward the Their mother Celebrian, once set out on a in the realm of Lorien. Yet fate, ever cruel traversed the Redhorn Pass, she was seized by the their caves. There, in the cold and darkness, Her sons, Elladan and Elrohir, learning of with great urgency. But when they arrived, they They returned her to Rivendell where fervent hope. Although he was able to mend wounds of her spirit. The following year, she departed for the Undying Lands, In the wake of this loss, Elladan and Elrohir were rode with grim determination alongside Aragorn and quest for retribution against the darkness After he returned from one of Elrond sensed the moment had come for Aragorn Thus, the boy nurtured in of discovering that he was the At the age of twenty, Aragorn stood at the of his past was to be drawn back and the full revealing a destiny that had But when Estel was only twenty years of age, it deeds in the company of the sons of Elrond; for he saw that he was fair and though he would yet become greater in Elrond called him by his true name, Aragorn stood as the final echo of Isildur's flowed far deeper and carried the legacy of many Aragorn's lineage is a grand symphony of ancestors: formidable men, elves of ancient This illustrious heritage courses through To truly grasp the grandeur of into the rich tapestry of his family tree and Aragorn's parents, Arathron II and and noble line of the Dunedain Chieftains. tracing its roots to the Arvedui and Firiel. Arvedui stood as the fifteenth and final great Dunedain kingdoms that were born from a thread of destiny woven through Isildur was the eldest son of Elendil. he forged the realm of Gondor. In it was Isildur who severed the Ring from Firiel was the last Queen of Arthedain and Anarion was the youngest son of Elendil. As Isildur jointly ruled Gondor, while their father following the death of Elendil, Isildur took Anarion ruled the southern Kingdom of Gondor. the Kingship of Gondor, this arrangement descended from Anarion could lay Although Aragorn was indeed this was on the maternal side and the steward of Gondor, would dispute And now we come to Elendil who was upon the island of Numenor under the the Ar-Pharazon, the final sovereign of Numenor, forsaking the light for the malevolent such corruption, he led his people resulting in the cataclysmic Yet, amidst the ruins and sorrow, a glimmer guided the faithful amongst the Dunedain he forged the mighty realms of Gondor and Elendil, though not crowned as king of Numenor, from the venerable Tar-Elendil, the fourth King Tar-Elendil himself could trace Numenor's very inception and to its founder Elros. Elros, the Half-elven, was the son of As he is Elrond's brother, this making this the point at which Born of both mortal and elven blood, Elrond counted amongst elves or men. Elrond embraced Elros relinquished the promise of everlasting Elros, born of Earendil and Elwing, descended from Middle-earth. His parents, whose names shine with the grand sagas of old. Earendil, the mariner, the Valar for their aid in overthrowing Morgoth. he carved a path through the heavens, Venturing deeper into the annals of carries the noble blood of Fingolfin, the Beleriand. This illustrious line flows back who led his people on an epic pilgrimage from On Earendil's paternal line, two legendary warriors and champions of mankind, whose Returning now to Elwing, the beloved wife heritage winds its way back to two legendary whose names resonate with the echoes Luthien's heritage is fascinating, a class of celestial beings who existed at the fabric of the world during the sacred Aragorn carries a sacred essence that may go some way to explaining some of the But the wonder does not end there. Thingol, a sovereign whose life began in Cuivienen, This is the storied heritage of Aragorn, entwining grandeur and mystery. His a Maia's divine essence and the rugged spirit of Upon the unveiling of this noble ancestry, Elrond, would offer Aragorn the sacred relics treasured heirlooms of the Kings of Men, had been The first was the Ring of Barahir, a piece of legendary splendour. Forged by this radiant circlet came into being as the From its celestial birthplace, it journeyed finding its way into the hands of Elendil and The second relic was the Shards of King Elendil wielded Narsil with valour, but wrath, the blade broke in half.. In that seized the broken hilt shard and used it Some years later, after Isildur's fate had been the shards of Narsil were salvaged and where they would await their destiny The third was the Sceptre of Annuminas, lost land of Numenor to the heart of the staff was a symbol of Yet Elrond chose to keep the Sceptre from Aragorn, telling his fostered son that he must Awakened to his noble heritage, with Narsil's of Barahir adorning his hand, he found his But fate had yet more magic to weave Aragorn was destined to encounter the fairest ARWEN UNDOMIEL Arwen, the cherished daughter of Elrond, had grandmother Galadriel. And now, she had returned Aragorn roamed solitude in the woods with unspoken joy. He sang with the and all seemed well in the world that his gaze fell upon a figure among the delicate struck with wonder, as if he had stepped For Aragorn was, at this very moment, recounting the fateful meeting of Luthien And it seemed that before him, here in Rivendell, Luthien had appeared like a vision, draped For a heartbeat, Aragorn stood transfixed, apprehensive that this moment of grace &quot;Tinuviel, Tinuviel!&quot; echoing the cry there in those fair woods, Aragorn As the days after their meeting drifted by, this unspoken transformation in her son and coaxed Thus, Gilraen spoke to her son of the daughter of and beauty in a world that had forgotten such of mortal and Elvenkind was a relic of a bygone at the height of their glory before the blood and And Elrond too perceived of Aragorn's affection Elrond's voice became a vessel for prophecy, "Aragorn, Arathorn's son, Lord of the Dunedain, either to rise above the height of all or to fall into darkness with all that is left of shall neither have wife, nor bind any woman to you worthy of it. But as for Arwen the Fair, Lady of she is of lineage greater than yours, and she has are but as a yearling shoot beside a young birch I think, it may well seem to her. But even if it I should still be grieved because Elrond felt the weight of knowing that soon his children to remain bound to him and accompany him to the mother or to sever their ties of kinship and With the words of Elrond ringing in his Aragorn bade him farewell. On the morrow, to the sanctuary of Elrond, and to Arwen, Aragorn, embracing his destiny, stepped Chieftain of the Dunedain as he ventured forth Beneath the fading echoes of the once-mighty remnants of the glory of a bygone era. torn asunder by long centuries of division Yet, amid the ruins and scars, the spirit of their love for a land that had shaped them, the Rangers of the North, a noble force who 'But my home, such as I have, is in the North. in long line unbroken from father unto son and we have dwindled; but ever the Sword has to you, Boromir, ere I end. Lonely men are we, of the servants of the Enemy; for they are Upon ascending to the role of Chieftain, in a relentless crusade against Sauron. and relentless hardship, leaving him with Yet, to the people, he still appeared as a figure even in these hard times, could not help In those days, Aragorn crossed paths with a grey himself Gandalf. What Aragorn could not yet fathom Gandalf, who would soon become not imparting unto him knowledge as vast as the ventured through untamed wilderness and faced many began to place more burdens on the shoulders of It was at Gandalf's quiet urging that peaceful area of Arnor known as the Shire. For a silent shield for those who lived unaware growing sense of the Shire's importance, Aragorn this unassuming haven, where the Shirefolk dwelled greater weight in the weaving of the fate of Between the years 2957 and 2980 of the Third Age, Aragorn would steadfastly defend the West against Thus he became at last the most hardy of and was yet more than they; for he was eyes that when they were kindled few could of the doom that was laid on him, and yet from which mirth would arise at In these long years, yearning Aragorn donned a number of aliases and The foremost of which was the name of Thorongil. he moved with a swiftness and possessed a sharp Thorongil emerged, which, in the ancient tongue As Thorongil, he first served under King Thengel his path led him to serve the Steward Ecthelion darkness of Mordor, desperately sought However, Thorongil was more than just Steward. His counsel was thoughtful and the Steward. He even warned Ecthelion of the urging him not to be swayed by the the Steward to place his trust in Gandalf, whose Thorongil also rose to greatness in the midst of a leader whose mere presence In those foreboding times, as shadows storm of Sauron's return, Thorongil foresaw the fierce and merciless Corsairs With a force provided to him by Ecthelion, of darkness, his ships, like harbingers of doom, without warning, their shouts erupted in the night The battle waged on and in the tumult, a desperate and the Corsairs drew their swords. Thorongil of the Corsairs in a one-on-one duel. In this drowning the hopes of the Corsairs, Thorongil vanquished the Corsair threat with earning great renown for his strategic great glory awaited him in Minas Tirith, Yet, he did not return to the White City. From a message of sombre farewell. He spoke of and told the Steward that destiny would not A part of the reason for this to do with the whispers of tension that Denethor was sharp-eyed and guarded, Aragorns heritage and feared that he and And so, to the deep sorrow bewilderment of his and there, they caught their last glimpse of his gaze fixed upon the brooding which loomed dark upon the borders of Mordor. But what errands called Aragorn away tells us that Aragorn was "exploring the about the "plots and devices" of For many other realms of men existed in the and perilous, he sought the hidden truths within their souls. He would unveil the Dark Lord and delve deep into the shadows 'I have had a hard life and a long; and the are a small part in the count of my journeys. I trodden many plains, even into the far countries It may seem peculiar that Aragorn chose to venture it worthy to venture. Yet, there were forces Dark Lord who held sway. For, in those distant still dwelled, fighting a silent battle, waging in those far flung reaches of the world. Their the dark grip of Sauron, a force that cast long, Without their defiance, the united might Sauron's banner like a storm, ready to Perhaps Aragorn travelled to these knowing that in the these lands, the seeds of Their task was to circumvent Sauron: to had rebelled from Melkor-worship, to stir to search out his hiding (in which they disarray] among the dark East ... They must of the Second Age and Third Age in weakening would both in the Second Age and Third Age Aragorn walked many paths, but few were him into Moria. He spoke of this to the them how he had passed through the Dimrill Gate, The memory, he confessed, was evil, making blackness. To do so even once spoke not only of It is even told that Aragorn ventured into the loomed once more calling all evil things to him, courage of a warrior forged in the fires of It was as he emerged from the darkness of Mordor that he yearned to seeking solace and respite. Little did he a serendipitous meeting awaited, one that At the age of forty-nine, weary from the trials longing for solace. The weight of countless yearned for the tranquil haven of Rivendell, where But first, his journey brought him the Lady Galadriel welcomed him into Unbeknownst to him, Arwen Undomiel lingered changed little since Aragorn last saw her, of solemnity, and the sound of Meanwhile, Aragorn had matured into his full with a gaze that spoke of ages past, bade him in silver and white, draping him in a with a radiant gem. In that moment, he And as Aragorn approached Arwen beneath her heart knew its course and her fate was sealed. For a time they dwell together, under the until the moment of his departure drew son of Arathorn, and Arwen, daughter of There, amidst the eternal grasses, Elanor their souls entwined. From that sacred hill, they westward toward the distant Twilight, where the in the heart of that ancient realm, they 'And Arwen said: ''Dark is the Shadow, Estel, shall be among the great 'But Aragorn answered: ''Alas! I cannot foresee me. Yet with your hope I will hope. And the is the Twilight for me; for I am mortal, then the Twilight you must also renounce.'' looking into the West, and at last she said: the Twilight. Yet there lies the land of my When Elrond faced the weight of his though the sorrow in his heart was palpable. And so, when Aragorn returned to Rivendell, not with scorn but with love, revealing that, Arwen's immortality was a gift too than the King of both Gondor and Arnor. Therefore, for Elrond, triumph over Sauron it held the promise of a future in As the shadows deepened and a shroud of fear and the towers of Barad-dur reached ever even as the world trembled beneath this stepping into the storm, his path lit by the Arwen lingered in Rivendell, her soul ever bound her sight. From a distance, she guarded him with crafted for him a banner of unmatched splendour, the Numenoreans, to walk in the footsteps of In the year 3001 of the Third Age, as gathered strength once more within the land they hunted for whispers of Gollum, the with the Ring. But their search, at first, yielded had crossed into the black lands of Mordor and imprisoned and tortured, and in the shadows Around this time, Gilraen bid Elrond kin in the wilds of Eriador, choosing a as Aragorn's destiny led him to Yet there came a time when Aragorn returned to the their reunion, Gilraen's voice, heavy with the ' ''This is our last parting, Estel, my son. and now that it draws near I cannot face Middle-earth. I shall leave it soon.'' ''Yet there may be a light beyond I would have you see it and be glad.'' Onen i-Estel Edain, u-chebin estel anim, That words that Gilraen spoke to her son were: Onen i-Estel Edain, u-chebin estel anim I gave Hope to the Dunedain, Note that the word Estel is capitalised. gave to Aragorn was Estel; Hope. carry a double meaning. She didn't merely her greatest gift, her heart's most cherished Just as Gilraen had foreseen, she did not the following spring could bloom, her light And so, the years marched on, bringing like a storm gathering at the Gandalf's suspicions grew like shadows at dusk, dark and creeping, as the weight of a the ring Bilbo had chanced upon by the dark Accordingly, seeking more information regarding Gandalf and Aragorn renewed The wood was full of the rumour of him, dreadful said that there was some new terror abroad, a nests; it crept into holes to find the young; Aragorn combed the wild and forgotten places of the darkened depths of Mirkwood, and all the way to the shadowed borders of Mordor. And it was close to the borders of the Black quarry. He had tracked Gollum into the dead and their candles, and this is where Aragorn now faced a daunting task, he needed to far to the north. Every step was fraught with Aragorn took an unexpected road, They then crossed the mighty Here, he bound Gollum to a log and, braving the they pressed north, slipping through its looming trees bearing The journey then led them over the waters Nimrodel and Silverlode which flowed Aragorn then took care to steer clear his path bending eastward As they neared the great Carrock, Aragorn would of the journey had ended. As, although this time Aragorn had allies. For the they lent their aid to Aragorn's cause From here, Aragorn and Gollum entered Mirkwood, and here within the woodland realm, Nine hundred miles they had travelled, each step resolve, Aragorn pressed on. For fifty long days, Having accomplished this gruelling task, Aragorn where he was soon to meet four new companions. Following Gollum's capture, westward together before going Upon his return, Aragorn stood watch vigilantly watched over the Shire, ever Soon, news arrived from Gildor Inglorion, encountered as he was leaving the Shire. whose dark presence had been noted by the who had vanished, leaving no word These dire tidings fell heavily upon Aragorn. of the enemy were moving faster than Aragorn also received word from Gildor Aragorn stood at a crossroads, where every uncertainty. He would undoubtedly have knew that he must find the hobbits as soon as as Gandalf had intended. For, they and with the Black Riders abroad, they could Therefore, he chose to take up vigil they came. The hobbits. Fragile yet brave, than themselves. Without hesitation, as they sat in the glow of the flickering After observing their clumsy attempts to veil out a private audience with the hobbits. His Riders that prowled in the shadows. He after Frodo received a note from the which bore Gandalf's endorsement As the weight of responsibility settled on and leadership would be needed more than ever, Mordor would soon stir, and the earth Sword would sing and shield would splinter, The flame of hope that was foretold by his And Aragorn was ready. Ready to face the evil rising from the East and to lead Not as Estel, not as Thorongil and not as Strider, but as Aragorn--son of Arathorn, Thank you very much for Before I bid you a fond farewell, we would like to take this opportunity If you did enjoy this video, we would ask Also, we would be very grateful if you on the bell icon. By doing so you will Thanks again for watching, and until next time...