Just four decades ago, unheard of in China. For most people. In a still don't exist, the flying pigeon bicycle. And there was almost no auto now it is the largest auto Some of the biggest meteoric rise were foreign American ones. They made piles of money. But the good times have future in the country is Detroit is under pressure in reasons they're losing in easily lose globally. Lured by the promise of market of at the time, more global automakers agreed to taught inexperienced making cars. For a long time, it was Foreign companies enjoyed Chinese firms caught up foreign firms are now being The new market isn't quite industry, one might Many top firms are There are fewer competitive. New models can of the time it takes world, and always at lower Increasingly, Chinese Chinese brands, and the have close and direct customers. It's unlikely that once dethroned, that you'll market. Despite the daunting foreign firms, including double down. If you don't compete in going to do when China How do you know how to You haven't even tried. China's automotive industry 1980s. Two Chinese ventures with foreign American firm, another with The industry was tiny at The first vehicle, the 7500 units and dominated The only vehicle buyers and the like. Concept of a family car or a It wasn't. Nobody was even But reforms in the 80s and and created the 21st recognizable today. In 1994, one of China's top the policy for the known as the 1994 Auto This rule allowed foreign 50% share. In a joint venture with any Foreign firms could start ventures for any single Later rules favored foreign producing cars that met from locally sourced parts. General Motors, the biggest the time, entered China in Shanghai Automotive As China's economy auto sales. Demand pretty much tripled 2000 2001, China finished the WTO, and that gave more predictability to foreign took off. Sales grew ten fold in less became the world's largest Gm used to be the poster US-China relationship. At one point, the CEO from China, we're making more Things are great. Chinese people love our We're bringing Cadillac there was going to be a three GM, Ford and Jeep in But that didn't go as A quick look at the market manufacturers in China things have changed. Gm sales in China have mark consistently since In 2023, they fell to 2.1 sales for the first time Equity income from the much it earns in its second 2023 to $446 million. It fell 54% during the Things have been downhill so much so that GM sales Ford's down by more than gone bankrupt in China and So in the last five, six Disastrous, you know, three. It's very abrupt. It's very sudden. But I think it shows the these Chinese competitors. So here is how it happened. First, Chinese cars When Chinese firms first started to soon as the earlier, they didn't have They failed miserably in particularly in Europe. And the internet was full crumpling like tinfoil. 510 years later. They have extremely good you don't hear a word about A lot of that. Improvement was thanks to learned from foreign The whole point of the joint up to speed, to make sure that Shanghai all could where they could compete partners and everybody else coming, that's on them. But Bill Russo, a former runs a consulting firm in differently. Cross border investors and some perhaps even more important creating globally Nanjing Automobile Group brand MG in 2005, and began Geely bought Volvo from billion, and then spun out line as a standalone EV Geely also bought British In 2017, American investor in BYD, although he has Some leading brands are grow out of joint ventures. Government support, of role. The country knew it incumbents. It bet big on Y=200 billion, which comes American dollars. Byd received over $3.6 between 2018 and 2022, most Partly this was to combat quality problems. Decades had left cities like worst air pollution in the But the decision was also The Chinese felt that they with the Western, and companies with internal it would be hard to catch So they decided they would electric vehicles. And this was proficient. In 2008, at the height of Chinese government made transportation worth about investments in a nationwide airports and critically, The following year came tax incentives on vehicle sales A new policy outlined eight years. The plan grow car fund research on EVs, plug vehicles. Those investments considerable leg up. A lot of the supplier base, materials, is local. Chinese firms are really development and battery And there's a tendency in this as all a matter of lousy environmental things have some role to a role in the past. But it which Chinese dominance is Strengths go beyond Chinese firms have become infotainment systems, a rise in the mobile phone Volkswagen, for example, had software trying to hold they've looked to China to And I think that's a really that you don't hear much Recent entrants with technology industry include Huawei, Baidu, Tencent and A little bit like Tesla, They don't have the burden They don't have old old factories to very fast pace of These companies view the car the distribution of collection of service that is simply sold once The concept of the car as a computer is already normal China's younger buyer base products Chinese firms are They now are often saying and the Europeans produce software and don't use the much on the cutting edge. The image many non-Chinese economy is one where the these large state owned That's partly true, but Three of China's major the central government in are owned by provincial or A few are completely It's not all operating market principles, but if producers and the number of most competitive market in You know, they probably will especially given this Right. Of pricing pressure, push these vehicles out lower prices, sacrificing And so the foreign look at this and they have share or do I want The bloodbath Lei Xing is Tesla started in 2023. It began in China, but for cutthroat environment has pace of vehicle development other parts of the world. Normally, a car company vehicle every 2 to 3 years generational change every 5 In China, a refresh can the company will sell it at outgoing model. And this is where kind of of that legacy, they can't In addition, Elon Musk is to customers on social Chinese CEOs do, too, platforms such as Weibo and They also solicit comment use to interact with and This creates tight feedback Michael Dunn, who for the auto industry in China politics are also to blame. We look back at 2017. It was a year in which GM agreement to supply South defense, um, facilities, China didn't like that. And since then, we've seen of both the Detroit three just nosedive. No one made an announcement in trouble. You're going to But it's pretty clear that tide turned, and the three just sort of began to were concerned. At the same time, a lot of government once had in ventures, have since been entirely. The Chinese themselves They grew strong enough. So no, there's no more Let's just have people Let's have the market open I don't want to sound overly realistic when I say that Ford, GM, Hyundai, Kia, will be out of China. Some automakers, such as foreign firm in the retrench and stay in the They are working with local faster from decision to Tesla might be in better rivals, at least for now. It was the first foreign up shop in China without a liberalization of trade Just over one out of every is made in China. But even leaders face In my 27 years of living and seen is a consistent That is, China. Invites in world class as they can the secret companies. And then almost methodically sees And so Tesla one day will You can bank on it. Russo, the former Chrysler will not back out of the more in local design, My fear is most of the the delayed the investment in Americans embracing the He thinks foreign firms can and maybe even chalk up Stay in the game in the next Don't give up, right? Invest and find some way to maybe even build them in If you can't find scale in you at least have the hedge competing with China as