So this is my brother, Allen, and his biggest dream is to become a professional gamer. He loves it so much, he can't talk about anything but that. But the problem is he's only 14 years old and it costs a lot of money to be able to buy all the equipment, and I know he can't afford that. So today we will be transforming his room to create the perfect, most amazing, most epic gaming room on Earth. And we're doing all that with the help of his favorite game, Genshin Impact. And at the end of the day, we'll surprise him and see his reaction. So Genshin Impact, thank you so much for sponsoring this video. Allen, if you're watching this right now, I just want to say I love you so much, and I really hope that this step will kickstart your journey into you achieving all your goals and dreams. I'm going to cry. I'm going to cry now. I really can't wait to see his reaction. I'm going to be excited. Do you think he's going to cry? I don't know. I think he's at that age where he tries to hold back his emotions, but I really know he won't forget this for his whole life. you guys have no clue how much this means to him. The last time we did something even smaller than that, he was crying the whole time. No way! Wait, wait. It's PS5 I swear. Oh, he's crying. Why are you crying? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. It's okay. It's okay. Are you excited? Yeah. He's downstairs. We're going to act like we're not filming anything, so he can't know anything. Don't say anything, okay? Look where he is. He's been waiting for me to take him to the gym. Are you crazy? He's going to see you. Hey, Allen. We're going to the gym. Are you ready? yeah Okay, let's go. Are you good? Yeah. Is he here? Is he here? he's waiting for you where? But then it was time to distract Allen by taking him to the gym. so what's the scene at Target? Well, me and Asala are filming a scene at Target. Yeah, what's the scene? It's for a video that we're doing. I'm going to drop you off at the gym, and then we're going to pick you up. so how long do you going to be there? How long can I be there? The courts are going to be empty today. Huh? I love going early because the basketball courts are all empty so you want to be a basketball player? Yeah. Well, I'm probably just going to play high school and then stop. Then it was time for the big question. Okay, what's cooler? Basketball or streaming? I would like to stream because after basketball, I used to play to play video games. And you think you can go pro? Yeah. Really? You think you're that good at gaming? Yeah, I'm hella good at it. So what's missing for you to be able to stream? I just need a PC. I need a mic. But little does Allen know we're going to surprise him with a lot more than he expects. So after we dropped him off... Bye. Oh. Oh. He's so... We headed to the store to buy all the equipment. Okay, so we just got to Best Buy, and we're about to buy him the best equipment he's ever got in his life. All the computers are right here. As a boy, it's actually crazy. Then it was time to buy the most expensive gaming equipment in the whole store. Wow. That's so cool. Okay, which one are we getting? -which one are we getting? This. This is insane. -this is really cool. This is really cool. I've never seen someone have this. Okay, should we get this one? Dude, this is getting really expensive. How much is this gaming room going to cost? Well, Genshin Impact are helping us with this, honey. We told them that Allen's favorite game is Genshin. They were like, Okay, pay anything. It's like almost an open budget. That's why I think this room is going to look so freaking good. Okay, guys, so this is the PC, this is the mouse. We're going to have, I think, this keyboard, and then we're going to have one of those. And honey, we need big speakers too. Why would you need speakers if you're already listening to me? Honey, are you trying to buy the best setup on Earth or not? Okay, so now we came to the light section. -oh, my God. -look at these lights. Oh, they even have the tiny ones, so you could put them in a lot of places. Can you imagine how good his room is going to look? and expensive And expensive. Please, can we get this? Please, please. let me justify justify why we need it this can keep your coffee hot. And look, it's powered. You click it on and on and it keeps it hot. And then you can control it with your phone. It's so good. This could work for a gamer. You don't want to get up and interrupt your game because your coffee got cold. Are you buying this for yourself or for Allen? For Allen, but then we need two. That's why. It's $141. -what, baby? Can I have this candy or this one? -neither, baby. -no, neither. We're going to have lunch. But, Daddy, when Allen is gaming. he's gonna need some candy. Wow. And after paying for everything, so now we're on our way home and we're going to transform the room and it's going to look sick. Honestly, if this was not for Genshin Impact, we wouldn't even be ableable to do this. It's one of his favorite games to play on his phone. Dude, he is always on it, like literally 24/7. -so we're going to make the whole room Genshin Impact theam. -which is crazy. So we just got home. Everything is getting prepped here. Hello. Hi. And this is Molly, who's one of the best designers in L.A. That will help bring Allen's dream room to life. what do you think his reaction is going to be? If he doesn't cry, I will. Because this is actually- too much blood, sweat, and tear and went for this. We'll stop here, and then we'll show you everything in a bit, okay? Three, two, one. And as the room is being set up, let me tell you about Genshin Impact. Genshin Impact is a role-playing game where you can take on the role of the traveler across a vibrant map to enter a magical world where you start your adventure on the continent of Teyvat, where you can access seven kinds of powers. The Fontaine map looks huge and it includes multiple layers such as the main city, the underground passages, and the underwater map where the characters can dive and swim. There will be many secrets Allen will be excited to uncover. New characters are also now available, Lyney and Lynette that everyone's been waiting for. But I have a special tip. With this 4.0 version, some travelers will be able to automatically unlock a teleport waypoint to quickly arrive at Fontaine, where a lot of stories are yet to be revealed available now on iOS, Android, PC, PS4, and PS5. Finally, there's an exciting Fontaine exhibition. It will have original design, manuscript, true-to-scale replicas of Fontaine's architecture, creatures, and more. With experiential space featuring the underwater world of Fontaine exclusive merchandise the exhibition will be available online, and all the details will be in the description. Finally, we're done. Dude, it's been hours. It's crazy. Guys, once you see it, it's so nice. But look, who we have here. Come here. We have Paimon one of the most favorite characters in the game. So we transformed her. Mimi, turn around. Show me. Oh, my God. And then Anas and his friend went up to pick up Allen without him having a clue of what's happening. okay, he's here yo How was it? It was good. I'm actually kinda like the heat. Hey. Was it busy? Oh, yeah. What's up? Then it was time for the moment of truth, surprising Allen with his dream room. Okay, Allen, wait. I have a surprise for you don't open your eyes. Here we go. Allen, you're good? Are you ready? Close your eyes. This is crazy. Okay, come this way. I know you don't know what's happening or where you're going, but just trust the process. I'm gonna hit the wall trust the process okay so stand right here, okay? My legs are shaking. Are you ready? Yeah. Okay, open your eyes in one, two, three, go. Yeah. No way! wait is this the PC I told- Yeah yeah. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, my God. Guys, you forgot this. This is my favorite. We got the Genshin impact chain symbol the keychain to the rings to the coins. That's actually crazy. His favorite characters are all here. Look at the fish. -they're glowing the dark. Look at that. That's crazy. That's so crazy. Dude, this room is crazy. Dude. Wait, is this mine, too? Everything is yours. Everything in this room is yours. -everything in this room is yours. Every little detail. Is it insane that your favorite game helped you build your gaming room? I know. I play like every day. It's a dream. Thank you, Genshin. -dude, everywhere I look, there's Genshin we love you so much. Listen, but you got to promise me something. Yes. That you're going to stream. I will stream. You're going to work hard. You're going to pursue your passion, and you're going to be the best at what you do. I will. I'm going to do it. Promise? Here we go. This is it. This is it, guys. Make sure to download Genshin Impact from the description below. We might be sending you something if you comment down. Thank you so much! and we'll see you in the next video. Bye. Bye.