In the July 1975 issue of Playboy Magazine, The Godfather Part II and The Conversation, enormous impact The Godfather films have had: now on, I'm determined to give tremendous will have on the public. It may sound wordy, ever really do that" (Directors Interviews The Godfather films play with the theme of structure, but what happens when there is Who's in charge here? Charge? I don't know, man. I'm just the When asked about what would be his next film, is going to be delicate in that context. It's it won't necessarily be political-- it it's dangerous, because I'll be venturing that if I select some aspects and ignore others, I'll be thinking hard about it" (Directors Hello cinephile, Tyler here. You are watching of Francis Ford Coppola's Apocalypse Now. take you through the film from beginning to but this time, we will be making some pit the development, script, casting, editing, about a little bit later. These are the main resources that will carry incredible documentary filmed by Eleanor Coppola of Darkness, with the help of these and many picture of what these artists went through and film history. So, why Apocalypse Now? The story of the making but perhaps more important considering what's Now is about risk. Apocalypse Now is a very budget epic art film done independently without something that was only possible because of an with Coppola's unique circumstances after Click the CC button if you'd like to see Also, I'm just one guy doing this, so I Nicely point them out with sources and Let's get started! Apocalypse Now is loosely based on Joseph following a boat journeying up the Congo River-- with an ivory trader named Kurtz (Wiki). The story was based on Conrad's actual experiences from the jungle for trade (Travers 83). The setting of Apocalypse Now changes the center around the Vietnam War in which the of communist allies like the Soviet Union Vietnam, supported by anti-communist allies and the United States (Wiki). The war happened during the United States' to be a "proxy war" in which the United having to actually go to war with each other The idea to recontextualize the Heart of Darkness by John Milius and George Lucas (Martin 209). for the screen and failed. The most notable that, if it had been made, would have been instead of Citizen Kane (Hearts of Darkness). Welles performed the story with others in 1938 as part of his radio series "The Mercury Theater on the The offing was barred by a black bank of to the uttermost ends of the earth flowed into the heart of an immense darkness. They did screen-tests and designed sets, but that Welles elaborate film would go over-budget" We'll talk about this more in a later episode. legendary for its many difficulties ranging and even military coups (Martin 209). Francis downward spiral of doubt and frustration and Apocalypse Now was released near the end of the Hollywood Renaissance-- in which Hollywood to the directors' vision (Wiki). One of the main traits of New Hollywood movies filmmaking-- shedding the [quote/unquote] in the 1950s (Martin 209). Here, we see a surreal depiction of the Vietnam the war is more of a symbolic backdrop than or contain a realistic view of the events. bizarre nature of the war itself, Apocalypse of the mentality of the war and how insane Our father, who art in heaven, hallowed be --as well as the effect it had on the soldiers, and on our view of human nature. It's important to understand Francis Ford Before Apocalypse Now, people only knew filmmaking, that he won a Best Picture Oscar also won the Best Picture Oscar-- not to Oscar for both. The Godfather Part II-- Francis Ford Coppola, But let's go further back and look at the to what we'll talk about in the rest of Francis Ford Coppola was born in 1939 to Italia and flutist, not a flautist I asked him once, of course, what's the and he said, 'fifty dollars a week.' Carmine would go on to compose and perform The Godfather, The Godfather Part II, Apocalypse When Francis was young, he was diagnosed with Scorsese, he spent a decent chunk of his childhood of storytelling because he would pass the with his homemade puppets (Wiki). And his grandfather Pennino gave him a 16mm film projector (Travers 15). Coppola said, "there was about a year and for a while. And so I basically watched television, a tape recorder, and puppets, and my day was So, I guess if you want to make a legendary during childhood. Coppola majored in theater arts at Hofstra after seeing Sergei Eisenstein's October: he was very taken with the film's editing After getting his degree from Hofstra, he a couple of shorts and then he made a soft-core he just edit it? Either way this got him a nude scenes for an American drive-in audience Coppola: "They were made out of different I didn't honestly every believe-- and I to see my name on the screen because it seemed by someone,' so I just put 'directed by Coppola' because I wanted to see my father I've had to live that down ever since. I was like the third editor." He was then hired by "The Pope of Pop Cinema" dub over a Russian sci-fi movie called Battle to change the story and remove all the anti-American Coppola even directed some footage of "space After seeing his work, Corman hired he was directing (Wiki). Coppola was recommended director who got her start in the late silent and taught at UCLA while Coppola was a student (Travers 20). Roger Corman had a unique way of doing things. movies with sex or violence "every ten minutes" If people thought the movie sucked, no matter, would be coming out. The new "Film School would hire these kids fresh out of University Corman might as well be a cinematic saint as his impact on the industry. He pretty much Ron Howard (as a director), John Sayles, James Coppola who all got their start (or break) Jack Nicholson, Peter Fonda, and Dennis Hopper I'm an American! Corman was kind of an incubator for budding you do a good job on this film, you'll never was actually honored with some cameos in his Godfather Part II, Jonathan Demme's The Corman's philosophy of letting inexperienced of the main seeds that would blossom into many of America's greatest movies were made. Instead of hiring people to make a [quote/unquote] "traditional movie," he hired people who of doing things. The same thing happened with hiring some young and less-experienced artists didn't know the "right" or "wrong" preconceived notion of whether something was Corman's model also gave rise to the blockbuster, and promotion formula... but with money (Wired). were influenced by Corman's formula and we all know what happened after those movies came out... (Wired). I actually made a little video about Corman's if you'd like to know more. One of Coppola's turning points happened a film he was directing with Coppola doing doing anything and everything from being to, in this case, running sound (Martin 202). Roger Corman: "He was the sound-man, the unit all on one picture. Very versatile." Conan: "Okay, and did you know then, this Corman: "Actually, I knew he was good. I heights he did." Coppola said, "About three-quarters through was called back home to direct The Raven with pass up a bargain to make another film while know, I have a script that could be made. wanted a film that was like some hit film. time. I said, 'I have this script...' and I showed him the three pages I wrote that kind of action scene I could come up with. gave me a check for $20,000. He sent me with who was going to be the co-signer -- and I met another producer, and I said I was making buy the English rights for another $20,000. to get his $20,000 back, still make the movie the film for free. But I sort of just duped And I had this young woman sign the to the whole amount, so she basically was movie for $40,000, which was this little black-and-white made in about nine days" (achievement.org). One who walks with silent tread and strikes It was on the set of Dementia 13 that Coppola be married (Wiki). And look who it is! Patrick Shortly after Dementia 13, Coppola won the that would never be produced, but it got Coppola Seven Arts (Martin 202). Let's jump ahead a bit to 1969 when Coppola George Lucas called American Zoetrope as a studio system's control (Wiki). He had made an independent personal film called had used as a soundstage to be the makeshift Making The Rain People proved to Coppola without relying on the studio system (Martin 204). At the same time, three other Corman proteges: had just come out with a super cheap indie George Lucas said, &quot;Francis saw Zoetrope where he could do the same thing: get a lot hope that one of them would be a hit, and Coppola was a little older than many of the and he was the first of them to work in Hollywood. film stock from the supply room for Zoetrope him when he finally "made it" (Travers Patton came out in 1970, which Coppola co-wrote it was a little bizarre-- Coppola said, "the script was very controversial so stylized. It was supposed to be like, sort of interested in the reincarnation. And I up in front of an American flag and gives That's why Americans have never lost and will never lose a war. Ultimately, I wasn't fired, but I was fired, meaning that when the script was done, they said, "Okay, thank you very much," and they went and hired another writer and that script was forgotten. And I remember very vividly this long, kind of being raked George C. Scott, who played Patton in the used Coppola's script and so they did (Wiki). Academy Award for the screenplay (Wiki). I know that Mr. Coppola would join me in thanking This Oscar, made possible by George C. Scott's the mainstream. By the way, Scott won best actor and refused the first one who did that and he said that [quote] "believed that every dramatic performance A couple years later, Marlon Brando the award because of the "poor treatment It's interesting how both of those Best Act or refusals were for movies that Coppola co-wrote. Warner Bothers made a deal with Coppola to The first slate of Zoetrope projects included those would be George Lucas' first feature, They took the film to Seven they had merged with Warner Brothers and became &quot;hated Lucas's film so much that they cited deemed a film to be unsuitable for release, They suddenly called the financing "a loan" So one day, everything is going great with a slate is put on hold and Coppola is "about $300,000" the money or buy back all of their scripts Lucas was quoted saying "There probably in America making as much as $100,000 per that the contract he had with Warner-Seven deal," but who knows how much he was aware 'turn-all-of-your-funding-into-a-loan' clause (Travers 65). Coppola said, &quot;My enthusiasm and my imagination I wasn't associated with anyone who was and I was forging ahead without looking back that" (Travers 66). The only thing keeping success of Patton that was a hit in theaters by Coppola wasn't going to be enough to The stage was now set for one of those cinematic of Italian decent to direct a little mafia Robert Evans, the head of Paramount, knew are directed by non-Italians-- that's why but he was busy making his own mafia movie: most of the mafia movies being made became want to touch them (SiriusXM). Evans said And you fry some garlic, then you throw in it, you make sure it doesn't stick... Robert Evans: "I didn't particularly want and he's operatic and really what makes Coppola originally didn't want to make a heritage and because he wanted to do "art at this point and was really trying to get they were out of money and Coppola's realization capitalism, he agreed (Wiki). I'm tellin' expression and commercial appeal. Lucas said, "For him, it wasn't really, accept the fact that the dream of Zoetrope, we'd been talking about for the last two fell apart. Francis was very disappointed to pay his debt back&quot;(Travers 68). Evans would attempt to fire Coppola from The won the Oscar for writing Patton and Evans The story of making The Godfather deserves to talk about the stuff that will be relevant Marlon Brando for the role of Vito Corleone Even though he won an Academy Award for screenwriting, Coppola didn't have much clout in Hollywood. He went on and on about wanting Brando, but Coppola: "I was told by the president of will not appear in this movie and I forbid name up again' and at which time, I fell and he said, 'what!?' And I said, "Well, kind of a director am I?" And he said, "Okay, Evans finally relented under the conditions test, and put up a one million dollar bond He went to Brando's house and filmed the [quote/unquote] 'screen test' and Gulf and Western, which had acquired Paramount of Brando's screen test. Coppola: "And Charlie Bluhdorn said, 'No, that's incredible!'" And that's how Brando got hired (92nd Street but they only paid him something like $120,000 (92nd So Coppola built his career on taking risks-- Mario Puzo and Francis Ford Coppola for The Francis Ford Coppola and Mario Puzo! The winner is Francis Ford Coppola for The The Godfather won every award and made every Ford Coppola is a household name. Coppola: "Firstly, I'd like to thank Peter job in the first place, which sort of rescued in San Francisco, which still lives." A couple years later, Coppola found himself The Godfather Part II and this lead to him at the Academy Awards-- winning for The Godfather Godfather Part II-- Francis Ford Coppola, By the way, let's look at that clip of Coppola won against his old nemesis Robert Evans who The stage was now set for a low-budget Vietnam George Lucas. If you'd like to support this series, I and get something in return. Or you can join CinemaTyler on Patreon and get access to everything for $5. Thanks for watching!