When I was a lad, I can remember And at some point, someone pulls out a video tape We all gather around and Twister is not a scary movie, But about 40 minutes in, And playing on the screen of the theatre, A different movie. There's this unusual shot of a boy before being confronted by two... Strange looking little girls. And something about this scene like really, really off... I sat there transfixed, feeling afraid I couldn't get that scene out of my head To not get too creeped out, admit defeat, hang my head in shame, The ultimate social disgrace for The film was of course and as since become one of my favourite But the question is : what was it about that scared me so badly ? And more importantly, how did it do it ? In the scene itself we start-off the camera, slowly pushing down a But what immediatly resonates here Because of the very particular composition there's a really strong sense of And this, combined with the slow pan makes it feel like it's not just Danny but us as well. We turn the corner and [spooky cymbal] And we're faced with this scene and I say 'we' because again Rather than watching something the expert staging and shot we're the ones being And not only that, but there's a with what we're being confronted by. While we can identify the they're far enough away from the camera which creates something akin to the And it adds to this weird sense that that's just very very wrong. This coupled with some really that even completely out of context is still frightening on a level that was And Kubrick constantly does this using bizarre subtleties throughout Whether it be : consciously making his actors appear or making use of ridiculous, What strikes me about the hallway is how it takes advantage of so many such as camera movement, sound design, and use them all to build In other words, it leverages the strenght And this in turn always made me wonder : what advantage can other medium such as offer in terms of horror, that perhaps, live action, And that is exactly what we're Draw the curtains, dim the lights, Before we get into specifics I think it might be what we specifically Or, put another way, And what we don't mean is &quot;jumpscares&quot;. If we pull right back let's talk about the nature of art. Art, as I see it, is something for the express purpose of eliciting So good horror then fear, tension, dread, etc... And there's two reasons I want to leave One, as I see it, &quot;jumpscares&quot; are more a physiological It's your body trying to defend itself not an emotionnal response. It's not difficult or complicated in fact if I wanted to, all I'd have to do to let this screen fade to black, slowly trail off my sentence, [silence] Like, I'm not going to, Second, I think what a lot of people, think of horror, is the setup, misdirection, jumpscare. And recent cinema has done nothing Which really sucks, because this is only one particular And reliying solely on this of what makes That's not to say jumpscares or that they're not I actually enjoy the clever of the first &lt;i&gt;Insidious&lt;/i&gt; movie but again, it's not What we are is horror that seeps and stays there The kind of horror that cannot be That needs to be built up strong imagery, Case in point, the hallway scene But there's many other examples that rely on fear and dread, And inevitably, these seem to be years and years after Take for example 1968's fantastic In which a young Mia Farrow occupied and run The fear coming not but just through the feeling that with both the building There's no point in the film that's but the skill that went into that particular feeling of dread It's this kind of situationnal based nowhere does this better Video games present the horror genre the primary one being So no longer is horror but something the player We can't watch the victim anymore, we are the victim. And games like &quot;ClockTower&quot; or If you wanna see a near-perfect marriage then you should seek out Despite the simple visuals, it shows horror gaming constantly creating expections only to subvert those expectations, constantly psyching them out until something as simple as becomes a daunting This isn't the only advantage it also serves the distinct function This might sound obvious, but this really Take the first &quot;Resident Evil&quot; or better yet Despite how they've changed early &quot;Resident Evil&quot; isolation, exploration, A solitary 8 hour adventure only briefly ponctuated by Now imagine that it would be Keeping the audience's attention mean so that dialogue can occur. But because of gameplay, video games don't have We can be by ourself, And this in turn, allows game designers to explore isolated somewhere Animation in horror while the potencial to create after all animation can explain but works of genuinely great horror A certain amount of this comes from how no doubt steming that animation But I think a certain amount of it is also due to the importance What I mean by this to value things on ie the idea that 95% of all animation should either look And this in itself creates a barrier, as true horror needs in order to really get under our skin. Take for example While it's fun enough one thing you'll notice about the visuals All the character designs only offset by the many gruesome And while it's enjoyable in a it seems more than anything was to be seen as a beautiful looking show as opposed to a frightening looking one. And in doing so, trades in the ability to build for the sake Now, take that character esthetic and compare it to the Now there's a guy who looks whether it be standing or chasing you And sure he's never getting but his lack of direct esthetic appeal make him an ideal antagonist for He's creepy on sight alone, and this is specifically what makes him so effective. While we're on the subject, even thought I'd be reluctant I'd be remiss for not mentionning It tells a story of a city plagued with people saying they've been attacked by a young boy on roller skates While not particularly frightening, While I think neither &lt;i&gt;Paranoia Agent&lt;/i&gt; or they are both highly unnerving And even more than that, they're both works of one of the greatest And, this isn't going to be the last time But that aside I'd really struggle genuinely frightening animated horrors, which again is a shame 'cause in a lot If you do know of any decent then please let me know as it's Which brings us to comics and not long ago I would have thought as I do animation. But that's before I discovered the work and that artist, being Junji Ito. Ito's work can be both his illustrations don't seem with being esthetically pleasing And they don't have to. Nothing about the way Ito draws is for the sake of Rather, every line, every pen stroke is intensely focused on making the reader feel as uneasy as physically possible. Even his regular illustrations of humans And something as simple as a house cat can become eerie and bizarre Which if anything shows he has on how to create eerie visuals, after all, it's easy to make a demon but a house cat ? Now that's something else entirely. It's through this we can also see it's rare that any kind of pre-established such as say like vampires or werewolfs. Rather, Ito's illustrations the disorientation of the natural world, or, as he himself puts it : taking something normal And this goes a long way into feel all the more alien and frightening, and completely removes us everyone knows the rules but this fucking thing ? No thank you. Ito's lack of reliance really makes him reach to find horror in places we might not Ito finds horror not in dark castles but in our everyday lives. Like, take the brilliant in which at night a young boy ..something.. that lives a mere ten feet away from him. Ito's first major success was with one of his very few recurring characters : A story about a wicked teenage girl tormenting and corrupting He'd later find international success But it's his dozens that make up the main body of his work. And arguably where we can see him really push Short stories have a lot for one because of their brief lenght there's never a need to which trust me, is for the better. I have literally never seen that was more effective after and the reason for that's simple : explaining why a sinister entity lets us understand its logic, and thus destroying the mystic and with something we don't understand. This is never the case with Ito's work, we never get to peer All we get are brief glimpses. And rather than weakening his stories After all, what's more frightening ? A threat that you can understand, Take for exemple one of my favourites A small town slowly becomes infested with these giant grotesque floating heads. And if that wasn't bad enough, each head has the face And it will track that person down and hang them. All attempts to combat we don't know where they came from but we don't need to. Finding out that the balloons were wouldn't make them any more frightening. There's no possible explanation that could match the murmorings and Ito's aware of that, he's a master information to be frightened and then what it was or where it came from. In a regular narrative But what Ito's going for here And though it might sound odd, or plot driven stories. But it's in discarding these elements focus on horror. And to do this he's developed A regular narrative arc looks like this : this is essentialy the emotional flow But with Ito, his stories and what he really nails, what makes him better than 99% of is his command of this spike right here. This sudden jolt of fear And what he uses to communicate it nearly entirely unique to comics. That of the page turn. When we turn the page of a comic new information is instantly and a good comic artist either meeting our expectations This works entirely differently from which is without visuals or the cut of a movie because it's the reader And into that space created by control a good horror writer can inject which of course Ito does masterfully. Right when something really bad he always gives us this little panel of our character reacting to And then it's up to us to turn the page and ooh christ what the shit is that ?! The best exemple of this I can think of is one of Ito's most famous stories : &lt;i&gt;The Enigma of in which an earthquake reveals a group in the side of a mountain. At first no one can figure out but slowly, people begin to realise is perfectly suited to each and upon this realisation, people start to feel compelled to climb get slowly sucked in no explanation of where they're going, nor what lies beyond. I'm gonna leave this story there as I really think you need to But trust me, when you it's going to stay with you And incidentally if that sounds it's because it was referenced in in the kindergarten episode. &lt;i&gt;Steven Universe&lt;/i&gt; being once again We canno't discuss however the work of the three volume horror masterpiece : in it a small town becomes haunted not by ghosts, werewolves, or zombies, but by the concept of a spiral. And no not the good kind of spiral. Seriously, that's the threat here. An abstract idea of a geometric shape. and it's horrifying. Much in the same way that he can make I think the same is true with the premise. There's nothing frightening about a spiral in the same way there is a ghost And yet still, Ito manages to weave a tale This becomes apparent in which one of the protagonists father's becomes obsessed with the idea at first in a relativaly unobstrusive way he begins collecting things and spends a lot of time examining them. But before long he begins to that's untirely unhinged contorting his body and even life And it ends with one of the best This is just chapter one however and is how it escalates, at first where as the father becomes the mother develops which becomes a problem when are part of our physical make-up. Not gonna say anymore on that but... Yeah it's, it's bad. As things continue to advance though one of Ito's biggest influences and that is, the work of 19th century Lovecraft is the proprietor of what tales of ancient extraterrestrial beings that to even behold them is to accept and suffer madness because of it. Lovecraft always plays on this idea of that there's truths out there, that are so overwhelming and dangerous that the mere discovery of them and thus, us ourselves which is exactly the threat Eventually the entire town under the influence of the spiral and what starts as a man grows into a story of cosmic horror of what is it that lies One aspect that I think's especially is that it's an idea that could only While &lt;i&gt;Uzumaki&lt;/i&gt; has been adapted into film have happened through any media You couldn't pitch &lt;i&gt;Uzumaki&lt;/i&gt; without the manga's prior success it's just too out-there a premise. And this is the final advantage that that they're relatively inexpensive to this not only allows comics to be but allows strange and bizarre and these are the ideas that are These brilliantly unique and And despite the fact that they're created the imagination and creativity canno't be denied. Which incidentally is exactly what I think is missing from and it's through authors like Ito that we begin to see what the horror After all, horror at the end of the day is about eliciting emotion. Not jumpscares, not voyeurism but emotion. And just like good art, good horror and makes us feel things we Friends, Thanks for joining me today. A huge shout out to my buddy Rebecca who did the opening artwork whose tumblr is great and you should and tumblr user for letting me use their amazing I'll be back soon with another video, but in the meantime why not come at @EyePatchWolf or come listen talk about crippling &lt;i&gt;Destiny&lt;/i&gt; addictions, or &lt;i&gt;Love Live! Sunshine!!&lt;/i&gt;. Friends, take care of yourselves and I'll see you next time.