Hello. It is still november. With that out of the way, does your microwave Yeah, mine too. Lots of microwave ovens come with a dedicated yet on nearly every bag of microwave popcorn sold in a store you'll find a rather stern warning making it clear in no uncertain terms that that button is forbidden. Do NOT use the popcorn button. This might make you question "why do we even have that button?" and you know what? That's a great question. But I'm gonna tell you something wild and devious: you should try it and see what happens. Try it. You know you want to. See, I got this question from a patron of the channel recently. Jolly Orville Secret Redenbacher Time II The popcorn producers of the world don't know anything about your microwave, and some microwave oven manufacturers are dirty little liars and put a popcorn button on microwaves that have no business having one. Oftentimes that button doesn't do anything and if you use it your popcorn will be either burnt to a crisp with an approximately zero percent chance of Since nobody likes wasting popcorn, the popcorn people put a purportedly proper popcorn preparation primer listening for a gap of two seconds between pops to signal it's done and don't you EVER use the popcorn button. Not in this family! [voiceover] Of the brands shown here, As you're about to learn, this is actually a nice gesture because it means they trust you to use your brain and experiment. And that's the kind of hard-hitting investigative journalism you can expect As far as the rest of those brands, though - here's the secret they don't want you to know: Some microwaves are smarter than others and have Like popcorn. And how do you know whether your microwave is among those better ones? Try the popcorn button. If you press the popcorn button and your microwave asks you the size of the bag, Danger, Will Robinson! That is probably a bad popcorn button which is sure to disappoint you. But if you press it and the microwave just starts... you might have a good popcorn button. Perhaps you still need to press the start button to make it go, and it might even give a message saying but so long as it doesn't ask you to enter your microwave likely has some sort of sensor with which What sort of sensor, you ask? Broadly, a microwave with proper popcorn popping prowess a moisture sensor and if it's very fancy a microphone. Microphones in microwaves are, I think, not super common so you are more likely to just have a moisture sensor. But don't underestimate the power of moistness! With a bit of logic, that sensor can be used for all sorts of useful things, including automatic reheating of a meal or, if you go back in time to when appliances were actually trying to be smart following specific parameters Sadly, the days of the (at least outside of Japan). But lots of microwaves still have a moisture sensor. One way to tell whether you have that sensor which, if it does, you should give that a try next time you're reheating leftovers. It has worked surprisingly well in my experience. What a microwave oven is doing when using More moisture indicates food is beginning to let off steam, and depending on how quickly that steam is detected, (and how cold it was) If you're lucky enough to have a moisture sensor in your microwave, you may very well have a decent popcorn button. See, unless you're getting it from Uncle Joe's Discount Cornhole, a bag of microwave popcorn will stay sealed when it begins to pop. Since it's sealed, the moisture sensor can't detect anything at first. But once the pressure in the bag builds past a certain point, the bag will either go "boof" or possibly "pfffft" and let out a big ol' cloud of steam. The microwave will easily detect that, and by comparing the time it took between the start and the sudden moisture spike with a lookup table built into its programming, it will pretty accurately guess the size of the bag it's popping If you've got a microwave like this, that popcorn button Notice, though, that I said "might" and "most" - this Samsung microwave oven has a pretty decent popcorn button When you use its popcorn function, it fires up the fans for a few seconds to clear the air around the moisture sensor before switching on the magnetron. After a short delay it begins cooking. And you can clearly see that the display doesn't say anything other than "Popcorn" until shortly after the bag bursts open. Then it picks a time remaining value and stops cooking at the end. This works pretty well... if the opening of the bag is pointing to the right when it bursts open. The sensor is clearly somewhere up in here, and if the steam gets shot right into this area, the microwave only takes a few seconds And once it does, it's usually pretty bang-on. But if the popcorn bag was pointing away from this region, it tends to take just a little too long to detect the moisture spike, so it thinks the bag is bigger than it is, and it cooks just a little bit too long. Generally it just singes a few kernels, A faster-spinning turntable would be one potential solution here, or perhaps the microwave just isn't churning up the air inside of it well enough. But here's the thing - despite not being perfect, I would still happily press that button. Because I've dared to use this microwave's popcorn button and observed its quirks, I learned that it beeps when it determines the remaining time, which is usually somewhere around 20 or 30 seconds. [beep] That gets my attention so I get ready to stop the microwave. Sometimes I don't need to stop it early at all, And if I'm popping one of those small snack bags? I stop it when it beeps. So while its popcorn button isn't perfect enough to just hit and walk away, it does eliminate enough of the guesswork when buying a different brand, And I have indeed used microwaves with a perfect popcorn button. Like the Sharp Carousel sitting in front of me. I made a whole video about this which you can check out if you like, and if you're extremely bored you can also look at the video on my A different microwave from my childhood also had a perfect popcorn button. Sadly that one didn't last long at all but it was great while it lasted. And, wouldn't ya know it, my new microwave oven at home has perhaps but it's got a twist. Actually, two. I suspect that this fella has a microphone listening for popping sounds. That might sound pretty expensive to implement in a consumer device, but remember the video I just made on the Clapper? Yeah it's not exactly groundbreaking technology. Every time I have used the popcorn button on this microwave, it has run the magnetron until just after "ok it's done!" It throws a time remaining on the screen but It has done this and worked perfectly with even a cheesy popcorn which I absolutely regret purchasing. But I don't think I've tried a snack-size bag yet. How'd that work, future me? [munch] Went just fine, past me. Coulda gone a little longer but it's not burned. Not too many kernels, actually. Good job! Unfortunately I couldn't determine concretely The manual doesn't mention it and neither does its marketing copy. It may be that its steam sensor is just... really good, but I mean it's been way too consistent with the whole for me to call that a coincidence. What's that? There's a button that says "feature sheet" Did I write all that before clicking that button? Because it says it features a "Sound-based popcorn function." right there. So it is real. Good to know. The other twist with this microwave, though, It takes noticeably longer than the Samsung machine does, and indeed most microwaves I've ever used. But - it doesn't have an inverter magnetron and I don't hear it cycling so unless it's got some sort of half-wave rectified 50% power mode You don't need to know what any of that means. This microwave is also weirdly slow at melting butter for some reason, That's actually been something of a minor mystery I'm honestly not sure if the slow popcorn popping is intentional but by golly it nails it every time So. I've technically shown you three microwaves in this video: this Sharp from the late '90s. The Samsung from around 2010. And the KitchenAid from just last year. All of them have perfectly functional popcorn buttons that work great, And the only way I found that out was by daring to use the popcorn button. Uncle Orville may not want us to press the button but that's only out of fear of the unknown. Orville can't tell what microwave you've got But you know what kind of microwave you have! Or, if you don't yet, you can surely find out. All it takes is a press of a button! At most you'll waste a bag of popcorn, but even then - if you just watch it as it does its thing, or start it again if it stopped too soon. You're smart enough to figure that out, and you should! Honestly you should check out all the features your microwave has. Sure, many of them are clunky to access (a high-res dot matrix display and actual user interface And while they're often of dubious usefulness, I use the sensor reheat function all the time to take the guesswork out of leftovers. I just wish Samsung wouldn't make me pick between - what does that even mean? And who knows, if you didn't buy the microwave it might have some tricks up its sleeve This over-the-range microwave It's got resistive heating elements and will get its insides up to 450 degrees if you like. Apparently the new model even does air frying. Of course it does. Am I ever going to get around to talking about steamingly smooth jazz Whaddya suppose the difference is between I dunno but I bought this cause I wanna find out. One way to tell whether you have that sensor The moisture sensor doesn't detect anything at first. Ahh... what? See, unless you're getting it from Uncle... why? Hmm. It can pretty accurately guess the size of Popking? Oh boy! Popcorn button might work perfekly for most Why did perfectly get... PAHPCORN Which is usually somewhere around 20 or 30 secods. Why did I say seconds like that? I dunno, but I'm starting over. PAHPCORN