ANDREW HUBERMAN: Welcome to we revisit past episodes for science based tools for mental and performance. [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm Andrew Huberman, of neurobiology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today's podcast episode We're also going to talk about which is wakefulness. Now, these two phases of our govern everything about our And we're not just going to talk We're also going to talk about and that will include at falling asleep, and accessing better In doing so, we're how to get more focused So if you're like most you have some At least every third and maybe even more often. So we're really going and talk about tools that sleep better and emerge from So what determines and the quality of It turns out that's The first force is It's called adenosine. Adenosine is a molecule in that builds up the So if you've just slept for deep restful hours, to be very low in If, however, you've been awake adenosine levels are Adenosine creates a sort of And a good way to remember is to think about caffeine. Caffeine for most It makes them feel more alert. Caffeine acts as an What that means is that when you it's coffee or soda or it binds to the It sort of parks there park in a given parking slot. And therefore adenosine Now, when caffeine parks in nothing really happens The receptor can't engage of making that cell So the reason is because it blocks It blocks the sleepy signal. And this is why when adenosine will bind sometimes with even greater And you feel the crash, Caffeine has a lot It also, for some people, can it can raise blood Caffeine increases this that we call dopamine. We discussed this in tends to make us feel good, because as you may have dopamine is related to epinephrine, which In fact, epinephrine So let's just take a about what we're we're talking about sleepiness. If you've ever pulled you'll noticed As morning rolls feel an increase in your again, even though adenosine for the entire night. Now, why is that? The reason that a second force which is and when you're awake. And that force is a Circadian means about a And inside all of exists in your and the brain of every aware of that determines and when we want to be awake. That block of sleep and when it is governed by a number But the most governing when you and when you want to And in particular, it's Now, I can't emphasize and how actionable this and when you want to sleep. It's quite simple and it's quite But people tend to make a big literature, frankly. So let's just break it of what's going on in as you go through Let's start with waking. So regardless of how or whether or not you most people tend around when the sun rises. When you wake up wake up because a called cortisol is released Your adrenal glands sit and there's a little There's also a pulse which is adrenaline from your And you feel awake. Now, that pulse of cortisol might come from It might come from you But it tends to alert your that it's time to It's time to start It's time to start moving about. It's very important come early in the in your period of wakefulness. When you wake up in the that rise in cortisol, there's and these are cellular dictated by the relation in your body that says that in about 12 to 14 This hormone we're will be released from So there's two mechanisms and a sleepiness signal. And the wakefulness the onset of the timer OK, so the rhythm of is what we call endogenous. It's happening in us all the In fact, if we were in complete with no artificial these rhythms of cortisol So if you were in it would happen once but it would be somewhat Whereas under normal is you wake up. And what happens You open your eyes. When you open your eyes. Light comes into your eyes. Now, the way this that you have a particular They're called retinal When light comes a particular group of or type of retinal that perceives a and communicates that to above the roof of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. And the suprachiasmatic connections with and organ of your body. Now, it's vitally get light communicated to to time the cortisol When I say properly, I can because we know based that if you don't get your right, there are and bad effects on metabolic effects, learning, So let's think when we do this correctly When we wake up, our eyes open. Now, if we're in isn't enough light to of this cortisol These rhythms, you might say, Well, it turns out in our eye that set and then allow our all the clocks of all the of our body, responds best to an amount of light. And those are the qualities that come from sunlight. So these neurons, what although they don't have is the sun at what we The eye and the nervous about sunrises or sunsets. It only knows the that comes in when the This system evolved so that there's a particular contrast that triggers the However, if you after the sunrise, which I you still want to get You don't need the sunlight in the eyes. There's a lot of photons, from sunlight at this time. But the key is to get that light into your eyes. It's critically important to get this light. I had a discussion with a Zeitzer, who's in the Department Sciences at Stanford, And he tells me that it's to view this sunlight through a or through a side than it is to just get outside light early in the day. Once the sun is overhead, shifts so that you miss the cortisol pulse. And that turns out to You really want to time that Because we'll get into this But a late shifted cortisol or 8:00 PM increase in cortisol and maybe one of the causes and depression. So it's kind of a We don't know whether or not the cause or the a signature of depression Bringing that cortisol pulse earlier in your day ranging from blood pressure I'm not going to list them so many of them. But many, many when you are getting the far away from your So how long should Well, this is going because some people live it's very bright. So let's say it's Colorado there's a snow field, And you walk outside, to be so much photon on your retina that 30 to 60 seconds to and set your cortisol rhythms properly and get Whereas if you're in Scandinavia wake up at 5:00 AM and the sun the horizon and then goes back you probably are not getting these rhythms. So many people to use sunlight simulators in that were designed You could say, well, the are really, really bright. Everyone's telling us to because they're really bright. But guess what? It turns out that your retina is not which means you need ideally coming from sunlight So looking at your phone is fine if you wake but it's not going to work to So you want to use sunlight. If you can't see sunlight then you are going to have And in that case, you're going that either simulates sunlight Now, without going off course I've heard blue Actually, blue light is during the day. A lot of people will say I throughout the day. No, that's the That should be reserved Because light Sunlight inhibits the pineal. It prevents it from Darkness allows the pineal So the pineal is not the gland It is the gland of darkness. In fact, melatonin of as a sleepiness signal So get up each morning, I know that can be but anywhere from two to ten is going to work If you can't do it sleep through this period of don't worry about it. The systems in the body, and neurotransmitter make you awake at certain and sleepy at other by averaging when you Some of you, many of what else can help Well, it turns out we call the primary But other things this rhythm of cortisol, 12 to 16 hours later as well. The other things besides light timing of exercise, as well that one might ingest. Not illegal drugs, will impact circadian The other thing is sunset, at low solar angle low By viewing sunlight in the evening or afternoon, it is and where you These melanopsin cells, signal the central that it's the end of the day. There was a really showed that viewing sunlight doesn't have to be just but circa sunset within prevents some of the in preventing melatonin So let me repeat this viewing Viewing light later the sun is setting can help protect these against the negative effects So let me talk about You'd go view the sunset in the late Again, if you want to do this that's fine, but it'll So the best thing to do for a few minutes, anywhere in the afternoon. Having those two to your central your internal world and knows when it's evening There's always a lot of How much How do I know You'll know because start to fall into some You'll start to wake up at more You'll fall asleep Generally, it takes about two to align. So if you've not been it's going to take a few days. But they can have and sometimes rather of different mental and Now let's talk about the Because light is not supposed at any time. And nowadays, because of we have access to light at times we wouldn't. Now, earlier I a lot of light in to set these clock mechanisms. That's true. But there's a kind of all this works, which is the the more sensitive your retina So that if you've been it becomes very easy for even from a screen or from to trigger the activation you feel like you make it harder to fall asleep OK, so the simple way is want as much light early in the day, morning including blue light. And you want as little artificial or sunlight And certainly you do not want to your eyes between And here's why. Light that arrives to the eyes approximately, suppresses This neuromodulator is sort of an endogenous and can inhibit learning of other detrimental effects. It does this through a who want to the neural pathways That's then signaled to a When that habenula it's actually called the because it actually makes disappointed and can lead to in the wakeful state. Now, if you wake up in and you need to use the bathroom and you need to read or Every once in a to be a problem to get bright in the middle of the night. But if you think nowadays and being up even if you dim triggering this activation and the sensitivity has gone up late in the day. For those of you that are with mood, those of you that issues, focusing, the are how can I focus better? One of the best ways you for good mood, mental health, et cetera, is to take control at night and not get much in the middle of the night. These cells in our signal the central not exclusively, but mostly in And because we have a lens and because of the that means that these viewing our upper visual field. This is probably that these cells designed to detect sunlight, So if you want to avoid improper it's better to place use in the evening low in So on desktops or even the that way as opposed So overhead fluorescent That would be the Lights that are a little bit softer of the would be slightly better. But dim lights that are going to be best to activate these neurons and clock. But let's talk do in terms of shifting So the way to think about is you've got depending on how long and it's making you sleepy. And then you've got their that are timing your when you want to through cortisol and melatonin. But there are a that are downstream of like we tend to be hungrier than late at night. Some people like to But if you're finding that person or a morning person, exercise and food intake Jamie Zeitzer and colleagues showing that if you turn on so around 45 minutes to Even if your eyelids you're not under the covers. After doing that increases your total sleep time at which you feel sleepy. It makes you want to go Now, in a kind of they did this with notorious for wanting to wake And what they found was bright on the lights in their because they're trying And that's why they're through the eyelids then made those kids naturally and they ended up So that's something You could put your lights on a before you wake up. You could open your blinds so And again, if you curl then it's not going to But it's remarkable, penetrate the eyelids, and go to the central clock. That study illustrates a of how you're the capacity for what are called And I don't want to So the simplest way to think delays is that if you and in particular in the and body, for understand will think that though it's not sunlight, sensitivity and it will phase It will essentially make and go to sleep later. So the simple way is if you're having and feeling alert you're going to want to try and before waking up because It's sort of like turning Whereas if you are having you definitely don't want to or any light exposure to and in the middle of the night your clock more and more. And what you're trying to You're trying to provide them that your cortisol, your that cascades down from and your ability to learn your dopamine, your is timed regularly. One of the reasons challenge out there with focus There are a lot of But one of the reasons is that aren't anchored to These systems, but if you can provide them in the day and in the evening you will be amazed at of positive effects from that at the level of and just general And this is why whenever people Which is one of the most What supplements should I take? What drugs should I be taking? What things should I be taking? The first question I always And 90% of the time either have trouble falling or they don't feel rested A brief note about naps. Naps provided that they're provided they're 20 or even an hour can be very You don't have to take them, feel a dip in energy and In fact, if we were going we would find is that you get hopefully your cortisol goes and then around 2 or 3 there's a spike in everything to learn. Some metabolic factors drop comes back up. And then it tapers off So for some of you, I love taking naps. Some people, they wake up from That's probably sleeping as well as or as long as they And so they're dropping into REM in the daytime. And then they wake up and Other people feel So that's another case where you sort of have to OK, so naps are going to be good I personally like to take but there's a practice that I've that I've found to be That is sort of like It's a thing that Yoga nidra actually And it's a sort of meditation Meditation and have been immensely in terms of accelerating So they involve taking a few just like you would listening to a script and it has do some particular and some other kind of body help people learn to relax, but get better at thinking in order they want to do that at night. In other words, they're because it's a training train your nervous system to alertness, that you relaxation that you do want. And so it's really teaching And that brings us to an even which is we've all experienced if we want to. If we want to stay up want to push an all-nighter. Some people can do that but we're all capable But it's very hard to make And so there's a sort our autonomic governs this alertness, the sympathetic and there's an asymmetry are more easily able to wakefulness. We can force ourselves than we are able to force And one of the things that and I'm going to continue is it's very hard to control When you have trouble you need to look to involves the body. And all the things I described nidra, all involve breathing certain ways of lying We're going to get into at another time. But all of those involve using rather than trying to wrestle of relaxation. And when we're having I encourage people to look toward sunlight, avoid if that happens to So there's a theme that's which is in order to control the nervous system, to some of the things like sensation, But we have to ask, Well, I'm talking about controlling your non-sleep deep rest we will refer to as NSDR to reset one's after you emerge from NSDR. So to get some more to attend some emotional as well as make it to fall asleep when you want Now, non-sleep deep rest to support it. There's a beautiful study done I will later provide a showed that this meditation meditation allows dopamine in an area of the brain involved in motor planning and In other words, this NSDR to engage in the world in a OK, so what about things should or should to control and access better There are a couple are directly in line related to falling and in line with the There's a whole category of amphetamine and that are the designed for the So things like that are designed to they are all essentially of things that increase Now, of course, I'm that things like are just across the board bad. They have so many addictive In the proper setting prescribed things like modafinil for I know that a lot of people even though they haven't been to increase wakefulness. That is essentially, well, but it's also abusing that you're pushing back slightly differently It will make you There tends to be and they do have an There are also of those that can be quite bad. But there are some that are safer, certainly safer, doing all the right behaviors, correctly and you're with sleep, that can be and staying asleep. Now, I want to be very clear. I am not pushing supplements. I'm just pointing you that have been shown in to have some benefit. The first one is magnesium. There are many but certain forms of magnesium on sleepiness and the mainly by way of increasing There are a lot of forms but one in particular T-H-R-E-O-N-A-T-E, which you right for you. Check with your doctor. The other thing is theanine. T-H-E-A-- 100 to 200 milligrams also helps me turn off Interestingly, theanine to a lot of energy to take away the jitters with drinking too much caffeine are in the energy drinks. So just a consideration. Again, I'm not here to do or not do, but just want The thing about theanine and they do for some people, and sleep so deeply that they in the morning. So you have to play with if you decide to use them again, I would not start by I would start by getting your And then think and then think and then think about whether We already talked about There's another supplement which is apigenin. A-P-I-G-E-N-I-N, which is 50 milligrams of apigenin this kind of creation of a and stay asleep. As an important point, apigenin inhibitor. So women who want to keep or at whatever levels should probably avoid And men take that into Men need estrogen also. You don't want to completely That can create all on libido and So apigenin in some to be a pretty strong So keep that in mind. So thank you so much for And above all, thank you for [MUSIC PLAYING]