On the morning of June 24, 1812, the greatest banks of the Neman river, at the western edge of 20 nations, begins to cross the bridges: rank upon many more, cross amidst the sounds of fluttering and the creak of wagon wheels. But the Russian nowhere to be seen. Napoleon's Downfall has begun. beginning of the Russian Campaign; the Patriotic War. For four days, the men, horses, the Grande Armee stream eastwards across the river June 1812 marks the beginning of one of the just under 6 months, the balance of power in of soldiers and civilians will lose their lives and Europe will come closer to total war than ever across the NEman and Russia holds its breath, and carnage that is to come - or even how Colonel Jean Boulart of the artillery of the Guard there was enthusiasm, a great deal of it. The was such that nobody even dreamed that the The clash between France and its client states very tense peace. Back in November 1806, Napoleon with a continent-wide blockade of trade with and hoped it would damage the British war satellite states and allies in northern Europe France and its allies defeated the Fourth Russia and Britain, with a resounding victory asked for an armistice, and the Treaty of The treaty did not force the Tsar to give up join the Continental System, ally with France, also agreed to recognize French satellite states In the years after Tilsit, the blockade of Great a third, the ruble lost 50% of its Political interests also drove France and Russia problem was the status of a Polish state. In a client state that greatly Russia had gained much of its western territory leaders feared that the Grand Duchy was a step would want those lands back. The Polish question he referred to the 1805-07 war as "The First Armee in 1812, he announced the invasion of Russia a Polish kingdom. The Tsar hoped that he could but insisted that he be crowned king, so Russian and French interests also In 1808-1809 Russia defeated Sweden and Russian satellite. In 1810 Sweden elected French worried about French influence on its northern Empire also fought a war from 1806 to 1812, over One of the political flashpoints was a personal of the German lands by creating the Confederation he dispossessed the Duke of the tiny Duchy of married to the Tsar's sister Catherine, and the this as a grave insult to his honor and viewed Napoleon may have been Emperor of the French and old order and Christian religion that Alexander differences also contributed to the reason saw himself as a man destined for European to spread a rational French-revolution-inspired system of weights and measures, and one rational he wanted to make Paris the capital of the world. of freeing the Polish nation. Tsar Alexander divinely-ordained order, with a mission from God but also viewed as bent on conquest. The two and again at Erfurt in 1808, but came no closer differences in power politics - though they did The peace brought by the Treaty of Tilsit in and ideological tensions between France keep Russia as an ally in the main struggle On New Year's Eve, 1810, the Tsar declared in violation of the Tilsit treaty. By 1811 as inevitable. The Tsar was but Napoleon had no such hesitations. In early pitch. France signed agreements with former their reluctant monarchs to provide a total of The Russians ended their war with Ottomans After unsuccessful diplomatic advances, the French January 1812 to enforce the blockade. Russia even Austrian troops would not be used aggressively The espionage war intensified, with the and sending their own agent to the Grand French presses even printed fake Russian while in Russia, the Tsar's authorities cracked propaganda, and censored the post. The nobility they might liberate the serfs or inspire Russian officer PA DavYdov decided to re-enlist, "According to what is being said and what imminent. As for who will command the army, we will soon inspect it [...] there is no other Both sides also began full-scale They conscripted significantly more men to fill to supply the growing armies. French authorities 1812 units began the long cold march from their or the German lands to East Prussia and the Grand where or whom they would fight - rumors hinted Russia, the Ottomans, or even British India. some Frenchmen feared their Emperor was making experiencing a wheat shortage and had little Even some of Napoleon's advisors tried to warn "No matter what success you achieve, the Russians where you will find nothing to feed the war covering weak lines of communication, interrupted, I implore you, in the name of France, in the name sheathe your sword." (Rey 45) fort-building program to shore up defenses. Forts camp at DrIssa were either renovated or built from Britain, and 100,000 men began to move from Last-minute diplomacy is little more to Napoleon that peace can be maintained if but there is little chance of that, and Napoleon but he has committed to war and the messenger After months of preparation and buildup, the Both the French and Russian High Commands can now put their war plans into action - and The 650,000 men, 150,000 horses, and 1393 cannon a northern wing under Marshal Macdonald, two others under Napoleon's stepson Eugene King of Westphalia. Austrian forces under and two corps stayed in Prussia as a reserve. Russian army are divided in three: the the 2nd Western Army under Prince Piotr BagratYOn, protecting Ukraine. There are more Russian but they are needed to guard its vast borders. and only invades to force Russia back and his military plans are ambivalent: he talks of the Russians quickly in a decisive battle or promises to make war in a way never seen before. whether to adopt an offensive or defensive strategic retreat to draw the Grande Armee Most of the men, however, like Lieutenant "We thought that we would immediately go out and chase them back." (Zamoyski) across the Neman in June 1812, the Tsar gathers Discussions are tense, and there's confusion as most powerful army in the world just a few days' its orders: retreat to the east. Meanwhile crossed the river and makes an entry in his diary: The shining sword which has been drawn from its fine pages are added to the glorious The next day, des Odoards and his French, German, Polish and Italian comrades can see smoke Napoleon's Grande Armee crosses the Neman river not find its Russian enemy. On June 28 French-led a brief cavalry skirmish on the outskirts. are surprised: "In all directions we found advanced without any obstacle, and to our that the Russians would abandon the capital of But the Tsar, the Russian high command and the destroyed the flour mills, warehouses, supplies also fled, but some Polish and Lithuanian notables state. The Countess of Tisenhaus was moved: Polish Uhlans with a charming uniform and banners and they saluted me and laughed. It was the I shed tears of joy and enthusiasm, I felt Napoleon does set up a local administration on but he doesn't want to create a full Polish ally Austria took in the 18th century partitions arrives and tells the French Emperor Alexander Napoleon refuses the offer, and decides Meanwhile, Russian General Barclay's is marching hard towards the fortified camp Bagration's 2nd Western Army and its 60,000 Barclay's retreat is going relatively well - only about 10,000 Russians desert and the cavalry The main difficulty is the chain of command strategic withdrawal. The Tsar told Barclay that keeps interfering with orders of his own and Prince Bagration considers "We were brought to the frontier, scattered along mouths wide open, shitting along the whole length so much it's driving me crazy." (Zamoyski) Napoleon's army group, or west towards would be far too risky given the superior also begins moving east to join up with Barclay. from joining up, so he hatches a plan. Marshal the two Russian armies. If Davout can cut off can then smash the trapped Russian army to pieces. General PlAtov's Cossack corps from Barclay's But Jerome's corps are having trouble. His immediately hampered by lack of food, poor roads, He also hesitates to attack Bagration since he is livid, and orders Jerome to Bagration realizes that Davout is so the Georgian Prince disobeys his orders and Bagration has escaped the French trap for are still hot on his heels. But just who was The Grande Armee of 1812 was massive - over 355,000 French Empire (includes parts of the and the Low Countries) 36,000 Prussia 29,000 Westphalia 20,000 Kingdom of Italy 15,000 Bavaria 8000 Kingdom of Naples 6600 Switzerland 2900 Illyrian Provinces 2200 Portugal smaller German duchies and principalities and actual boots on the ground are fewer. his forces into three main army groups, called including the Guard and the corps of Marshals force under Marshal Murat, the King of Naples; including Marshal Saint-Cyr's and Grouchy's King of Westphalia, with Marshal Reynier's Marshal Macdonald commands the northern Prince von Schwarzenberg cover the south. In Of this total force, about 330,000 infantry, cross into Russia in June 1812 (Rey). but the majority are conscripts from a replacement. Many are experienced veterans, from the expanded French Empire. French light infantry like voltigeurs and chasseurs a The artillery consists of foot and horse and armorers. The horses and drivers of artillery ammunition when not in combat, while the gunners The cavalry is considered the best in the world, lanciers, carabiniers, chasseurs a cheval. but according to General Paul Thiebault, cavalry "With few exceptions, [the cavalry] but not to obtain it. The artillery the infantry must overrun them and break through, [Cavalry] charges must be infrequent, but can only fight in close quarters, cavalry must ne peut combattre que corps a corps, elle Nearly half the Grande Armee is from hesitant allies Prussia and Austria or the Confederation of the Rhine, or the Italian placed in the same larger formations - notably, 3 Some historians argue that non-French units point to widespread respect, admiration and even for non-Frenchmen. There were certainly challenges spoken, and occasional French arrogance. Eugene, General Pino complained about the lack of food: and if you are not happy go back to or the others. Know that I fear neither The quality of the troops also varies, including The Polish cavalry was capable, but many when the campaign begins. They spent much of the Prussia and the Duchy; they'd been poorly fed; and they often aren't paid by the cash-strapped There's also an issue with leadership, as Prince movement, and camp practices (Nieuwazny 89-90). Napoleon's troops did have some things in "The Grande Armee fought hard, seldom The Grande Armee might be the most powerful weaker by the day. French logistics and supply rainstorm kills tens of thousands of draft and sickness and hunger take too much of a toll is escaped for now, but Marshal Davout writes to his "The Emperor's manoeuvres will prevent this We have taken Wilna without a battle and forced such a beginning to the campaign is But not every victory will be without battle, By July 9, 1812, Prince Bagration's 2nd without a rest. He orders a stop at NEsvizh, and advancing French-led army of King Jerome. Jerome's Cossacks at Mir in the first battle of the Russian and the Russian horsemen retreat. Some of the into an ambush - it's the Cossacks' VEnter and force the Poles back across a stream. When the Russians pull back to the village of SimakOvo. and outnumbers the Poles 6000 to 3000. The Platov attacks the Uhlans with everything he's After 6 hours of desperate fighting, more The two-day skirmish costs the Russians suffer 400 killed and wounded and 500 prisoners. for General Ivan PaskEvich: "This action In the cavalry, you either beat the enemy or Everything depends on the first enemy at Mir to stop the boasting and The Russians win a tactical victory at Mir, footsoldiers on their strategic retreat, but Operations Bagration's 2nd Western Army before it can join however, has changed course to avoid being trapped a brief rest helped by the Cossack defense of MogilYOv. Davout's corps reaches Minsk on July 8, Jerome's army is simply too slow. Despite their to cut off the Russians at Mogilev. There's still a third of his men to sickness, exhaustion, and "Beaten by the wind and the rain, after being as well as the men can barely stand." (Rey 101) battle at Minsk has failed because of logistical Emperor's own lack of energy. While Davout and his attention to Barclay de Tolly. Here, Marshal busy at Drissa, while the main French-led force to cut off Russian communications with St. armies will be even farther apart. If he stands But the Russian high command has new plans of forced marches to keep ahead of the Grande the fortified camp at Drissa, which is to be the He visits the fortifications with Prussian forces since he opposed his country's alliance the defenses are very strong in some places, but the French can cut off the camp from behind, just also doubt the position. Even if Barclay's army will have a free hand to catch up with the 2nd but might not escape another. The bulk of the Abandoning the position is politically complicated under pressure to turn and fight and to stop the very next day, the high command issues its and continue east. They will not let Napoleon The Russian army is now retreating of army is it that has so far outrun Napoleon? In June 1812, the Russian Empire boasts an army of can be spared to face the French-led The men in the three Russian social system - the vast majority Saint Petersburg sets annual conscription quotas are recruited to serve for 25 years - which homes again and serve until death. Families as they would a funeral. Pamfil Nazarov's "[My brother] left in the evening He tethered the horse at the gate and went told them that I had been conscripted as mother took the news very badly - she even lost The peasants resented this system, who did not want to lose farm workers. It since Russia's inefficient agriculture meant large manpower shortage in 1812 forces the government trained militia. In theory every able-bodied man and threaten the established order of docile serfs and they play a limited role in combat. but most of these are poor in spite of their salary. Only 15% of Russia's officers in 1812 Many of those who have are from ethnic or foreigners from the German states, Britain, The many Prussian officers serving as some Russian officers do not take kindly "dishonorable" strategic retreat plan of 1812 St. Petersburg diarist VarvAra BakUnina considers "All the army letters are filled with the desire are impatient to get to grips with the enemy spend their time drinking and playing...there The Russian army of 1812 is also the introduced after its defeat by France in unified - corps and divisions were made permanent, and artillery brigades in each division each of which has 4 infantry and 2 cavalry a division has 18-20,000 men. Army staffs were which -- on paper at least -- improves command especially musketry and a softer approach to "The Russian soldier has all he is brave, zealous, obedient, devoted, and not without employing cruelty, to train him Though the re-training program the Russian army of 1812 is far better than the in 1805 and 1807. In fact the artillery is pounders and licorne or edinarOg howitzer are Cavalry is also formed into corps, and includes dragoons. Most of the irregular troops are light and important. Most Cossacks came from the Don, reconnaissance, hit-and-run tactics, and harassing in the form of BashkIrs, KalmYks, or Tatars. The and still used traditional clothing and weapons not trust them with firearms after their The much-improved Russian army has won and avoided a pitched battle with the powerful is suffering from exhaustion and hunger, he's in he refuses a Warsaw delegation's request for a Abbe de Pradt in Warsaw, this is a grave mistake: polonais] etaient partis de [The Polish delegates] left with ice in their souls. The chill and it was not possible to warm Both sides are still confident: the French and end the war; and the Russians that they will The Russian 1st Western Army continues its it has left the fortified camp at with Napoleon's main army group close behind. to stiffen morale and give a chance for Prince Mogilev and join him, but Davout's corps is Bagration gets a little help from French Jerome didn't catch up with Bagration near Minsk, King Jerome finds out from Davout rather than demotion as an insult to his honor, so he abruptly In the north, Marshal Macdonald's X Corps is on entry for British supplies to Russia. On July 16, arrives off the coast to support the Russians, but The 30,000 French-led forces include Bavarians, Hilfskorps, the Prussian Auxiliary Corps Many of its officers and men are they had fought just a few years before, and "We Prussians did not follow we followed far more the irresistible will The 18,000-strong Russian garrison of Riga also fight against Napoleon - but its fortifications can even fire. The first clash occurs at Eckau the Prussian advance, but Prussians defeat On the 22nd, Riga's Commander General I.N. Essen, to deny their use to the enemy, and two days siege of Riga is an unusual chapter of the 1812 cover his assigned 120km front along the Dvina so the Russians are able to bring reinforcements with Sweden on July 17. Russian Army General and they're able to push back the Prussians to danger of being captured, but the Prussians When British ships appear off Dantzig, the French Eventually the Prussians and Russians also come bloodshed, and to treat prisoners well. After the siege devolves into an impasse and the Prussians spend much of their time As the Prussians and French settle down to a the rest of the Grande Armee's men The Achilles' heel of Napoleon's army is logistics and the lack of roads, infrastructure, long in the western Russian empire make the campaign a As the army was gathered in the Grand Duchy simply took it from local peasants, as "Day by day, the privations and hunger increased. Despite its orders, the regiment was and slaughter livestock so the men could have a seasoned with sand [...] bread was rare and The men even harvest unripe rye, and feed their About 60,000 soldiers are sick when the army there are already about 30,000 deserters roaming orders deserters shot, and a Polish cavalry "The guilty man would be completely stripped and whereupon two troopers were ordered out of until the skin peeled off him and he looked like a skeleton [...] but even this did not The army's European horses are not used and summer cold snaps. By some estimates, in the June 30 storm alone (Zamoyski), which leads to even more looting. Polish "The Frenchman came to remove our fetters The Russian scorched earth policy also deprives in the garrison town of BorIsov Colonel as Davout approaches on July 13. He orders 183 quarters of groats, 2345 quarters straw, 100 pounds of gunpowder in the BerezinA river, the BerezinA - an act that will have dramatic The scorched earth policy is just one sign total than those that came before - for the On the Russian side, one issue troubling they would finally fight at Drissa, and Artillery Lieutenant RadozhItsky overhears villain [Napoleon] must be very strong; just almost the whole of Poland." (Lieven 154) especially nobles who own serfs and fear Anna KonovnItsyna writes to her husband "Our serfs are all downcast, they're all afraid of asked if I had news of you; I tried to reassure never let the French through. [...] I am not afraid come out of this alive. May Christ be with you. The Tsar is under pressure from his to deal with the political crisis and Alexander finally agrees, leaves the army, He has printing presses set up to print and Italian-speaking troops to desert will change the very nature of the war his the Tsar calls on Russians of all classes and "Today we call on our loyal subjects, of all and call on them to oppose the designs and general uprising. [...] Nobles! You have always and clergy! With your ardent prayers you have Russian people! Brave descendants of brave Slavs! have attacked you more than once. Unite! With the no human power can defeat you." (Rey 107) he will come to Moscow to collect funds for the in arms, the scorched earth policy, and partisan why the 1812 campaign in Russia is an important Not all peasants patriotically heed the local uprisings across the empire in 1812. in the creation of modern Russian nationalism, and the Patriotic War. The Second World War will Just a few weeks after the campaign has begun, the men of the Grande Armee are ruthless in has called on the Russian nation to rise up, and All eyes are now on the provincial town of Mogilev exhausted men towards it - whoever gets their In late July 1812, the two main Russian armies Grande Armee continues its advance into Russia. is still in mortal danger of being cut off before Vitebsk. After Marshal Davout blocked Bagration's reach Barclay via the town of Mogilev. But once city on July 20, and even though he doesn't he prepares to attack. Mogilev is surrounded by and the Russians also don't know how many men General Nikolai RaEvsky leads 17,000 men 55 guns. Raevsky leads the 26th Division in a while the Russian 12th Division hits the French in FAtovo, but Davout sends in his reserves but it gives rise to a Russian patriotic myth. two sons into battle with him, a story that and becomes a favorite of Stalin's. But the story "It's true I led the attack. When the men other officers. On the left side, everyone was But my children were not there at that made up in St. Petersburg [by] engravers, is how history is written! Et voila The Battle of Mogilev, which the costs the Russians 2500 men and the French 1500. Davout once again prevents Bagration from taking sends his forces across the river south of Barclay de Tolly's 1st Western Army reaches Bagration away at Mogilev. Since he Barclay thinks that if he can delay Bagration can join him and together Barclay orders a spoiling action to slow which leads to three battles in three days General Alexander OstermAnn-TolstOy's IV Corps near the village of OstrovnO, in positions Murat's vanguard of 8000 cavalry and 1000 infantry and artillery, French-led forces struggle to swamps. French cavalry charges again and again, fighting is intense, and Russian officer Alexander "During the battle of VItebsk, an that the left wing was under The count replied: stand and die. graf After action reports criticize Ostermann-Tolstoy but also unquestionably courageous. a tactic the Russians are trying to phase out, Dragoons. The Russians manage to hold the line, and Ostermann-Tolstoy decides to withdraw. French "The [field] was ploughed up and strewn with various ways. Some, all blackened, had been others, who appeared to be as one came up to them one could hear their a kind of sleep of pain, [...] paying no attention nothing of them, probably because they knew Despite the carnage, the Grande Armee hasn't been stand on July 26. The 3rd Russian Division its with a French-led force of 8000 infantry and 7000 flanked by the Western DvinA river and a swamp. the Russian right wing gives under the pressure, Only now does Barclay learn of Bagration's defeat in vain. July 27 brings still more fighting hold out for as long as they but French-led horsemen outflank the Russians Each side has lost about 4000 men over three 5 non-noble NCOs are promoted, a Napoleon now expects that the next day will since June, so his forces break off With the two main Russian armies still decides to strike with its southern army The Tsar orders General Tormasov's 3rd Observation Grande Armee, which is covered by the Austrian Tormasov's advance is dangerously close to state. French command doesn't realise that The two forces clash at the small town of Kobryn, General von Klengel. The Saxons barricade the and half ruined 18th century fortifications. cavalry push the Saxons out of their forward Russian infantry storms Kobryn and a brutal to the ground. Saxon officer Carl Becker later "During this extremely intense fighting, we arrived to reinforce us. There was a loud Long live the Sahr Brigade! [...] Unfortunately wrong [...] it was a Russian light infantry unit The Battle of Kobryn costs the Saxons about including Klengel himself. The Russians lose 4 Saxon regimental standards. Reynier force marches his remaining troops north Volhynia to keep Tormasov in check instead As all three Russian armies fight to stave off wealthy merchants in SmolEnsk and Moscow. They serfs accept forced service in the new militia, Still, Alexander orders the imperial family in St And his armies will continue to retreat. On the it is too dangerous to fight Napoleon at Vitebsk, cavalry officer NadEzhda DUrova remains confident, "We are moving by quick marches into the heart of in all simplicity that we are running to escape whose unprecedented luck has cost him both through the emperor's robes." (Durova 131) shocked that Vitebsk is undefended. The decisive and some historians think he made a serious the day before. Many of his troops are reaching Piedmontese soldier Giuseppe Venturini "Bivouacked in the mud [July 20-23], thanks I was on sentry duty at General Verdier's. I was men died of hunger in our regiment." (Zamoyski) every step deeper into Russia brings more After the Battles of Vitebsk and Mogilev at the the city of Vitebsk. Given the hardships of the and rest his troops - even at the risk that could finally unite. The Grande Armee has and has lost about one third of its men mostly well as half of its draft and cavalry horses. army's supply: he orders hospitals to be set up and for Minsk to provide the army with flour. met near Smolensk. The Russian high command or finally stand and fight. 1st Western Army Chief are tired and losing morale, and Barclay He's also lost contact with the French vanguard But there is not just enormous pressure from to launch an offensive in a letter. Finally, he August 7, but almost immediately cancels it based Grande Armee command is also planning debate stopping the campaign until 1813, but strike before the Russians can organize a proper On August 11, the Grande Armee begins to move and the clash of arms is not long in coming. Murat's cavalry run into Russian General Dmitry far outnumber the 7000 Russian infantrymen, but square to cover their retreat. The French cavalry break it. 15 year old Russian soldier Dmitrii "Everything seemed incomprehensible to saw everything that was going on around me, indescribable chaos was going to end. To this riding around the square every time the cavalry in a voice which seemed to exude confidence [...]: Follow your orders and no cavalry The Russians lost around 1500 men, to pull back in good order. The French but with French artillery held up by a The French have missed anopportunity but will get another chance at the largest battle The town of Smolensk has a population of about important since it houses a sacred Orthodox icon the 17th century wars against the Polish Kingdom. but now he thinks they will fight, so he doesn't The evening of August 16, Marshal Ney and Murat Raevsky's corps beats them off. By the next the town under General Dmitrii DokhturOv, and the a frontal attack. First, the French-led forces By the early afternoon, it's clear to Napoleon him, so he orders his troops to storm the defeat Russian dragoons, and all along the When the French-led troops reach the 10-meter them without specialized equipment. Instead, they fire. French cavalryman Auguste Thirion of "I cannot conceive how a single man or a single from [both sides]. We [saw our] infantry or rather the ravines which made up the moat of trying to storm those rocks with a courage, these brave men tried to scale them by French artillery soon sets the town Russian troops still hold the town, but Barclay decides to give up Smolensk Prince Bagration is furious and calls Barclay commander Prince Constantine gives his opinion "It isn't Russian blood that flows in The Russian army begins a dangerous retreat in the and the Grande Armee enters Smolensk. The 7000 killed and wounded, and the Russians about its residents have been killed or fled. French "[Russian] soldiers [trying] to flee had fire, and had been burned there. Many no formless masses of grilled and carbonised or some shreds of accoutrement lying beside As Smolensk burns and the Russian armies move where Napoleon's reluctant Austrian Austria would have preferred to stay neutral But the Emperor of the French expected Austrian men in exchange for the Illyrian Provinces The Austrian corps is under direct Austrian the Prussian corps. Although Napoleon he still has some concerns about potential agreed with the Russians that they will try to The Austrian corps was meant to advance towards French-led VII Saxon corps at Kobryn, it's Russian General Tormasov's 3rd Observation Army of GorodEchno, which the Austrians and Saxons use of the terrain, occupying the higher ground Russian positions, but the battle lasts all day Later, Saxon Colonel von Bose blames a lack "Die Osterreicher wollen nicht recht beissen. The Austrians just don't want to sink Russian troops manage to hold their but their left wing is in such danger of being behind the safety of the river Styr. The Battle the Saxons about 1000 killed and wounded and the Armee has been stabilized, but the fresh Russian The Grande Armee is now in possession and has won another tactical victory - but some Prussian officer Carl von Clausewitz considers of Smolensk to be the gravest error of the entire men's minds as the Russians struggle to maintain has the upper hand - and the very next day the After the Battle of Smolensk on August 17, the need to retreat along the Moscow road. makes strategic sense, but it The Moscow road runs right along the Dnepr river, the river. If the Russians use that route, So after a day of rest on August 18, Barclay night-time detour along smaller roads running get back on the Moscow road farther east. troops are marching in the dark, and do not Some units are delayed, while others get lost in causing confusion. If the Russians don't move might seize the critical road The Russians would then be trapped The 2nd Western Army army is supposed to guard the join it, but due to miscommunication most of it Meanwhile the French-led corps overcome their Smolensk, and make their move. Marshal Ney corps moves on the Moscow road from the south. the outnumbered Russians desperately resist to General Pavel Tuchkov's 3000 men exit the forest of the 2nd Western Army is not there to protect takes up a defensive position with Count Vasily Still, French-led pressure on the Russians protecting the junction between the forest roads to send some reinforcements to support Tuchkov, Russians only have 30,000 men facing 50,000 from Westphalian corps does not attack the vulnerable and could have turned the battle. Hessian "If we had attacked, the Russians would have were eagerly awaiting the order to attack. wanted to advance, but Junot would not listen, and squad [...] Several officers and soldiers in my Ney is able to force the Russians to give up their but by then their two armies were safely on the GorA are about 9000 killed and wounded on each escaped total destruction. At one point in the and he later says the chances of escaping perished" (Lieven 170) and Russian army admits "The fate of the campaign and of the army As the Russian armies barely escape disaster other battles are taking place to the On the northern front, the Russians have the Corps has broken off from the 1st Western Army at Saint Petersburg, but Wittgenstein has no August 1, Russian troops launch a surprise attack Oudinot is forced to retreat to the town of Bavarian Corps. Wittgenstein decides to press to the French and Bavarian 35,000, he attacks on the junction of the Dvina and PolotA rivers, so at the village of Spass. The Bavarians are able while Russian artillery manages to stop a French wounded in the shoulder and Gouvion St Cyr Russian reinforcements have arrived, but they're French attack, but St Cyr is more aggressive than 8th French Division across the river Polota, but Russian rearguard of cavalry and light infantry French also push the Russians back in the center. charge the French cavalry, and a confused mass of lines. The Russian advance is only stopped when units pour in flanking fire. Swiss officer Salomon "The Russian dragoons arrived at the and they cut down the gunners at their and regiments threw themselves against each This meant our batteries on the walls of Polotsk collapse [...] but the 1st and 2nd Swiss regiments threatened friend and foe alike with death Hirzel exaggerates the danger and the role of moment in the fight: General St Cyr narrowly though he is wounded for The First Battle of Polotsk costs the prisoner, and the Russians 7500. Wittgenstein is flank is secure for the time being, although Napoleon makes Gouvion St Cyr a Marshal of France, Days after the battle, wounded men still lie "With horror, we saw [a Russian dragoon] who had Despite the massive loss of blood and four days to hospital. This I promised to do [...] and the Napoleon's commanders have once again been Valutino-Gora was their best chance so far. French Russians to Moscow in the hopes of a final battle, in 1813. If they stop, they might be able to and deal with the threat to their southern flank could also rally Polish and Lithuanian support have long-term benefits for France. On the other increase the risk of a coup back in Paris, and There's also a food shortage in French-occupied would put the Grande Armee in fertile territory at deal with Russia now, and that the Russians The Russian government is also making the interminable retreat, and many officers - not not only because of his non-Russian face the Grande Armee. Some now refer to all talk and no action. On August 17, the Tsar and announce their decision three days later: the As the Grande Armee pushes deeper into it leaves lands mostly populated by Poles, territory mostly inhabited by ethnic Russians. and now the people's war against French-led invasion force begins in earnest. war against Napoleon are based on partisan Peasant resistance begins to grow in response Around the conquered city of Smolensk, any chance liberator are disappeared with the destruction Meshticha: some villagers are "Along the way residents had and taken with them their food and they destroyed. [...] Some had left the towns, They were armed with pikes and guns to defend At the same time, some Russian commanders to operate behind enemy lines. Prince Bagration agree to detach some irregular cavalry raids. Bagration spells "I order you to harass the enemy and to try to but in the middle and rear. You are to and to destroy ferries. [...] Nobody should know absolute secrecy. You yourself are responsible Other Russian commanders also and gradually more and more Cossacks are foragers looking for food and fodder - with the begin to forage in larger, organized or armed resistance by peasants. Even though the they do take several hundred prisoners a day Hessian Captain Roder observes "Everything was suddenly thrown into ridiculous who were said to have carried off a forager. The had ridden out it was discovered that we were who were dodging about hither and thither. whole garrison to hospital in about fourteen Many Russians accept the scorched earth policy, Grande Armee. This planned destruction worsens the already catastrophic French supply Marshal Oudinot's wife Eugenie de Coucy "The roads were destroyed, choked with Ruined villages consisted of little more than a clothed in rags. [...] but what saddened me the on the top of many of which stood The problem is also troubling Marshal "We are very badly off. [...] You cannot imagine how They leave nothing, absolutely nothing. Ils ne Peasant resistance, Cossack raids, and scorched Russia, but both sides are still focused Napoleon is committed to an advance on Moscow the old capital. On August 24, the Grande 400km from Moscow. It enters the city of 15,000 residents have nearly all left, and French retreating Russians and salvage badly-needed food. to secure his rear and his vulnerable supply and Minsk, and orders a Polish division to cover he needs reinforcements, so the two reserve General Mathieu Dumas has put in charge of medical overwhelmed by the task at hand. There is simply even though the French threaten to shoot local they demand. There is not enough flour, and even it in. Horses continue to starve, and even the from East Prussia are dying off. In the summer so troops drink whatever they can find, which effectiveness of all units - for example, the strength out looking for fodder for the horses. as Sous-lieutenant Jean-Marie-Pierre-Guillaume "Mon cher papa, I am writing to tell you of and live only on meat, like wild animals. [...] We run away from us as quickly as we chase them. that happy moment will come." Boudon 148 their retreat in good order, in spite of The heat is so oppressive officers grant special One of the keys to the withdrawal is a disciplined The vulnerable horse-drawn artillery moves cavalry protects the columns, while light infantry Further afield, Cossack cavalry keeps watch Cavalry officer Nadezhda Durova later writes "When I imagine the dreadful end of our retreat, French are a foe worthy of us, noble and Napoleon is leading them into Russia. Here they be scattered and their bodies rot." (Durova 131) General Mikhail Kutuzov arrives to take overall a symbol of the Russian spirit in Leo Tolstoy's be portrayed as a military genius by Stalinist flawed commander. The Tsar doesn't like him and is popular, skilled at relationship-building, and Lieutenant Radozhitsky sums up the feelings in "The moment of joy was indescribable: this of morale among the soldiers [...] a man from a well-known aristocratic family, Kutuzov's appointment creates a complicated remain under Barclay and Bagration, and his plan. Kutuzov intends to draw the Grande well-chosen defensive battles along the way This task gets a little easier on August 27, when Tsar Alexander meets with Swedish regent The Swedes release Russia from its promise The Grande Armee is still the most powerful and the Russian People's War are wearing it down. is slowly growing in strength and recovering its needed soon, since the largest and bloodiest As the Russian army retreats east its new commanders decide to finally stop and give daily rearguard actions against the advancing General Kutuzov sends his officers Which, in this part of the empire, is von Clausewitz sums up the difficult terrain: is level - without any decided mountain ridges without enclosures, therefore everywhere and ill adapted for defense. [...] If a commander as was Kutuzov's case, it is evident that he Russian army officers Bennigsen and Toll near the confluence of the rivers KolOcha In the first days of September, the Russian army itself along a line running from northeast of The weak link in the Russian defences is the push along the Old Smolensk road and threaten Anchoring the southwestern corner is a hill of pioneers begin to build a redoubt in a hurry, with a 1.5m high wall and shallow ditch around. in front of the Russian line - there's the French could use for their artillery. Kutuzov and plans to protect his left wing further General NeverOvsky's division is ordered to what the Russians actually have planned for the they arrive, delay their advance, disrupt their On September 5, Marshal Murat's cavalry spread out below them - the long-awaited battle situation and decides the Shevardino Redoubt must 30,000 French-led infantry, 10,000 cavalry, and The Russians only have 8000 infantry, 4000 A combined force drawn from the corps an attack on the area around the redoubt Jaegers put up stiff resistance, but French French officer Gourgaud witnesses a clever "[General Compans] made [a battalion] grape[shot] that moved behind it. [...] he unmasked his battery, which caused Compans profiting by the disorder which with his battalion at the point of the There is vicious hand-to-hand fighting as the several times. The French 61st Line Regiment Sibirskii and MalorossIski Grenadiers drive them between the redoubt and Shevardino village, but Saxon cavalry and are cut down. The Red Lancers armored Russian cuirassiers, so they charge into The Russians feed three divisions into the fight, so the Russians finally abandon They leave behind a virtual charnel house on wounded Russians, and 5000 killed and wounded who occupy the position spend the night surrounded The stubborn defence of the Shevardino to work on other field fortifications that will two days' time, and the Russians now suspect that Kutuzov reports a glorious if The corpse-covered Shevardino Redoubt is now for the colossal clash of arms that Along the main Moscow road, several clashes between the French vanguard and the fatefully-named village of Borodino are applying their policy of scorched earth "Coming out of the woods, which were full of we passed through several villages devastated barbarians left in their wake, showed us The scorched earth only worsens the Food is scarce, they are exhausted and they're parched. Captain Girod "The heat was excessive: I had never experienced extremely thirsty [...] [but] water was scarce. lying on their bellies to drink horses' urine While his men are starving and desperate to still personal news from France. The Prefect of Paris Marie-Louise of Austria. It's a painting of title King of Rome. The Emperor is so pleased and writes Marie-Louise to thank On the Russian side, the troops destroy the to deny cover to the enemy. Inexperienced on more field fortifications on the argue about how best to construct the fieldworks in the south - and none of the The militiamen struggle with a lack of tools artillery ricochets. They're not finished 6. Kutuzov also has leaflets printed in "Soldats francais, [...] don't believe the peace [...] you are fighting for the insatiable or he would have had it long with the blood of the brave. Go home On the eve of the great battle, General removed from Smolensk before the to be carried before the troops. Napoleon procession, but Russian officer Fedor Glinka "Never have Russians prayed with the hearts and souls of the Russians were in a French officer Raymond de Fezensac is "Both sides realised they had to win or perish: for them, it meant the loss of Moscow the only hope of Russia." (Zamoyski) will determine whether French hopes are On the morning of September 7, 1812, the Grande armies near the village of Borodino - the biggest The Emperor wakes up at around 2:00AM, He reminds them that they are defending and perhaps more importantly for "Soldats, voila la bataille Soldiers, here is the battle you have so long it is a necessity. Victory will give us and a prompt return to la patrie." (Boudon 215) but others don't hear it, or only get a Meanwhile, the Russian armies have held and this morning brace for the coming storm. The Russian defences stretch from north of westwards in a rough semi-circle ending along of Utitsa and a large wood. The fortifications the French might attack there, against Barclay. however, is open and vulnerable, so they've a large redoubt, known by the French as the Grande and three arrow-shaped field fortifications known mutually supporting gun positions, is surrounded at the rear. Small streams and ravines in front This southern sector is precisely the part the decisive blow. Eugene's troops will fix concentrate on the Grande Redoute and the Fleches. overwhelm the extreme Russian left and push into The Russians hope to bog down the so they pack most of their troops between are between 9 and 16 Russian soldiers per metre of but Napoleon will have very little room to The Russians are also counting on the superior to turn the tide. To discourage unauthorized just behind the southern end of the line to All told, about 135,000 French-led about 114,000 Russian troops, 8000 Cossack At 6:00AM, a battery of the French Imperial Borodino, or la bataille de la Moskova, to begin. against the Russian defenders, and the two massive guns and the whinnying of tens of thousands of the sun begins to shine. Napoleon takes heart that shone at his victory at Austerlitz in 1805. of Austerlitz, and they continue to hold their is of an intensity rarely seen in the Napoleonic "The artillery roared to such an extent day we couldn't even hear the musket fire; the sky was on fire. But we could hardly see The French take first the southern Fleche, and take them back. Marshal Davout is and he falls to the ground, and Russian - no one is in command of the Russian artillery the constant bombardment from Eugene's artillery and relentless pressure of the Grande Armee The huge number of men and immense firepower in than a typical Napoleonic battle, as Russian "He who has not seen it with his own eyes speak of command. Each regiment, as soon as attacked +immediately. [...] In the middle which the officers were trying to reorganize; tearing at his hair and cursing." (Rey 161) the exact timeline of the battle, Bagration's counterattacks, but the lines has been breached. "Our division was annihilated. I couldn't were wounded and mutilated men and horses Describing these horrors is beyond my strength. Even today I cannot think about By noon, Ney is able to consolidate fact that a shell seriously wounds Bagration Kutuzov appoints Alexander von Wuertemberg but in practice Aleksei Yermolov takes over. the village of Borodino despite the fierce fight light cavalry. Eugene sets up more French guns in Grouchy's cavalry and three divisions of infantry Just as Napoleon had planned, Kutuzov has been Raevsky's Redoubt, anchoring the Russian all the more imposing for the attackers because with only limited access from the rear. But from all sides. About 2:00PM, Marshal Murat's breach in the Russian lines to allow the French cuirassiers heavy cavalry smash into the Russian capture the redoubt at heavy cost on both sides. "Most of the [dead] were infantrymen who had charged over them. This mix of iron and brass cavalry helmets formed an incredible sight was increased by the moans of French-led troops can now move south and threaten Russian troops in the ruins of their most important defensive positions and whether to throw in the Imperial Guard to finish the battle will continue the next day, and The Grande Armee has taken all Russian back more than 1km from their original line. both armies begin to pitch camp for the night at a butchery are forever marked by it, as Russian "Pieces of bodies were everywhere, and the dying without hands or legs. I saw a lightly wounded was full of the brains of the man who There is no second day of battle at Borodino. the order to retreat towards Moscow, and the next before it - but it is too exhausted to pursue Borodino is one of the largest and bloodiest it is not decided by maneuver; but waged with In just one day, French guns fire 60,000 French-led infantry fires some 140,000 An average of three cannons are fired lead and fire takes a terrible human toll. The and 15,000 of its already decimated complement wounded and 1000 prisoners. Borodino 10 French generals are dead and 39 wounded; the Tuchkov brothers, and 23 wounded. The Russian Napoleon, who is sick the day of the for his performance at Borodino. Some historians and insist that if he had sent in the Guard he In the end, both sides claim victory: the and the Russians since have badly weakened their also made mistakes including confused orders French-allied King Wilhelm von Wuerttemberg, is relatively reserved about the outcome: "In reality, Kutuzov didn't have any more Petersburg than did Napoleon to send victorious The Battle of Borodino goes on to become THE history. It will be used by poets, novelists, two centuries, to build a powerful mythology today. But all the history books and national at the end of the day on September 7. Despite the war is far from over, and After the Battle of Borodino, Napoleon's eastwards, towards Moscow. Russian leadership another battle with their badly weakened army, or to the very French-led army they have Kutuzov, whom the Tsar makes a Field Marshal on battles west of Moscow. But his generals remind Napoleon, and it's also struggling with morale thousands of wounded from Borodino stream in for meet. Barclay and Yermolov want to retreat, while Rostopshin want to fight. Kutuzov decides that "Napoleon is like a torrent which we are which will suck him in [...] I will see to will eat horse meat!" (Zamoyski and Rey, 169) Residents panic, pack their things, and soon choke leaves the city. Russian soldiers are demotivated plunder on their way out. For many, losing Moscow as they knew it. Lieutenant Alexander "As we passed through the city, it seemed believe that all I saw - the sadness, the fear, and I was surrounded by ghosts. The ancient the cathedral where our Sovereign was blessed, that cannot be explained." (Rey 19) the Grande Armee arrives. In hasty talks, General after the Russian threatens to set fire to units run into and sometimes even mingle with For the Grande Armee, Moscow seems to hold out of unbearable suffering. Sergeant Bourgogne "At that moment, all the suffering, the everything was forgotten and swept from our minds of taking up comfortable winter quarters in for that is the character of the French soldier: from the fight to lovemaking, and Napoleon enters Moscow on September 15 and sets up will make peace. But soon, the streets of The great city into which the Grande Armee marches residents, only about 10,000 remain. Among and their 96 water pumps, ordered out of break out on the evening of the 14th, but French as a result of careless soldiers, Russian and more ominous blazes break out in the Kitai Gorod out and discover torch-bearing arsonists - it's the Governor had ordered the chief of police scorched earth policy. With a rising wind, no matter of time before the conflagration gets out though the French arrest and execute 400 Russians Arbat is burning, and Moscow University library stables next to the Kremlin, and Napoleon Grande Armee units also partially evacuate the on the 20th. When they return, much of the city along with 73% of churches and countless cultural from an oasis, Moscow is now a ruined city now loot and kill with renewed ferocity. and rape an unknown number of women. French "When we became certain the Russians an inhibition spread among the troops. the flames [...] were stopped by soldiers lacking them after robbing them of their precious things and delivered up to the brutality of One captain of the Guard melted them down and sold them. accepts the invitation of a French Russian civilians also loot whatever they can of item the Grande Armee looters do not focus on some Polish units begin smithing winter horse While the Grande Armee plunders conquered to reach out to the Tsar for a peace deal. The The Emperor of the French feels defeated the Russian army at Borodino be ready to make peace. And Russian leadership There is panic in St. Petersburg, and the army is "The soldiers are no longer an army, but a horde commanders. One cannot shoot them: how can one On September 18, Napoleon meets with Russian intermediary and writes to Maria Fyodorovna, On the 22nd, Napoleon convinces an officer close Tsar at St. Petersburg. But he does not answer treason put in prison. Napoleon then asks the but Caulaincourt says there's no point. The and he writes his own letter to Kutuzov which Jacques Lauriston on October 4. Kutuzov has but he agrees to meet Lauriston in secret in and play for time while reinforcements are about partisan peasants, who are ambushing and "[I] cannot civilize in three months worse than a gang of marauding Tatars under Genghis Khan [...] I am only responsible for While Napoleon tries in vain to treat for peace, Moscow. The Russian army, meanwhile, is able to leaving Moscow. Kutuzov's forces head southeast the Cossacks seem to be just ahead of them. But and at first the French don't notice The main army reaches Tarutino on October It also now controls the vital routes south and bases in Kaluga. If the Grande Armee wants to devastated, it will have to fight to get there. ashes of Moscow, the Third Rome and the old adamant that he wants peace, but he cannot make still suffers from desertion and ill-discipline has placed it in a menacing position. The but they can replace them, and the country's will Alexander Turgenev is dismayed at the destruction "The ruins [of Moscow] are for us the wages of of Moscow, of Smolensk, will, sooner or later, words, I am completely certain of it." (Rey 23) Napoleon is now certain that his army must and a few days later on October 13, By mid-October 1812, Napoleon and much of his but the Tsar has refused all offers of peace. Spending the winter in Moscow would keep him far put his armies at risk of being further weakened But he's had a difficult time deciding He could move west along a southern route through the centers of Russian political power, and the decide to move north towards St Petersburg and the massive distances involved and the weakened Another option is a withdrawal to Smolensk (and one the Grande Armee had already taken, or by catastrophic defeat, and expose the army the same devastated route through Belarus. he orders a retreat to Smolensk through Yel'n'a, This means fighting their way through the Russian prepares to leave Moscow on October 18. Russian leaders are also making plans. Kutuzov's and he does so: he had just 40,000 men when he has 88,000 regulars and 28,000 cavalry, Meanwhile irregular Cossack cavalry and peasant isolated units, which cause the French 15,000 The strategic retreat is over, the new Russian the Tsar expects that his armies, which outnumber since the campaign began, will strike at to surround and destroy it. Wittgenstein's from Finland, is to push south against the Admiral Chichagov's Army of the Danube is to Finally, Kutuzov's main army is to close on the objective of trapping the Grande Armee and While Napoleon agonizes in Moscow Kutuzov strikes first at Tarutino. The Russian army's Tarutino maneuver had set up camp between Moscow and Kaluga. French Poniatowski's 5th Polish Corps encamp just Kutuzov is working on rebuilding his forces, Barclay, and British advisor General Wilson So he approves a surprise attack on the French shell of its former self. The entire 3rd Cavalry its original complement of 9700, and the Saxon Polish Lieutenant Henryk Dembinski complains "It was so bad that, even though we had their backs had rotted through completely, so much with the result that when a trooper dismounted, This is the depleted force the Russians catch of Cossacks carefully approach the unsuspecting into their camp. At first, the Allied troops leaving their weapons and supplies behind. "We finally got into battle formation. nothing stopped them. There were too many but did so in good order. Cannon balls were we looked we saw nothing but Cossacks." Boudon 248 to use their momentum and French disorganization Marshal Murat, they stop. A Russian army corps Poles have recovered their wits and they are able corps commander General Baggovut, who is killed. wanted to secure their loot from the French camp, with the limited victory and orders no pursuit. is relatively small scale but important: the to the offensive, and the Grande Armee The Russians triumph at Tarutino, but Kutuzov doesn't press his advantage despite Instead, the Grande Armee will come The Grande Armee that marches out of a burnt-out that crossed the Neman river in June. The Tsar has the army spent in Moscow, Cossack and partisan There are now only about 95,000 men in Napoleon's reduced them to a disorganized and dispirited A massive baggage train of up to 50,000 wagons, the troubled army's columns. Captain Eugene "He who has not seen the French army leave Roman armies as they abandoned the ruins of in ranks of three or four, extended several the soldiers had torn from the flames." Boudon 249 there before the war also leave, along with some Napoleon initially leaves 10,000 men in the but changes his mind soon after They attempt to destroy the Kremlin but fail. strong feeling of resentment in Russia and helps Russian authorities use the fire for propaganda, of the French and genuine attachment to Russia. and civilians into Moscow is more The city is absolutely ruined, as one pre-war "One could barely recognize corpses lay everywhere in the streets and in the carcasses of cows and dogs lay among the bodies been hanged - they were arsonists who had been with an inconceivable indifference." Rey 206 villages around the city organize themselves into to plunder anything of use still left among the "By entire convoys, peasants arrived in Moscow the possibility to take away. They took furniture; in a word, they took everything Russian authorities arrest many of but eventually strike a modus vivendi by of bodies lying in the streets outside the As Napoleon leaves the ruins of Moscow behind safe route to consider his options But a restored Russian army is blocking the way. The much-reduced Grande Armee that left Moscow on and the encamped Russian army. He hopes to take a Russian army. So his forces veer west and head for that would allow the Grande Armee to choose its The Russians know French-led forces are near Napoleon's main army until Russian partisans Meanwhile 6000 men of Eugene's vanguard have decides to attack them with his force of 12,000. push the French units out of the town and across Dokhturov sets up his guns on which gives the Russians a tactical advantage for The fighting rages back and forth throughout the In all some 32,000 Russians and 24,000 Grande fighting on the French side are from the Italian of their role in the campaign. Italian units while the town changes hands up to 5 times. downhill with powerful artillery support from about the vulnerable bridge behind them. The and British General Robert Wilson, who is attached "The crackling flames - the dark shadows of the ring of the grape as it flew from the licornes - traversing and crossing in the atmosphere - the accompaniments of the sanguinary struggle The Russians decide to abandon the town, which and withdraw to the ridges while their cannons By this time Kutuzov's and Napoleon's main but the Emperor hesitates. assess the situation and But while on the south the Emperor's scouting party. The Chasseurs de and one Cossack rider manages to get within 20 of the Imperial Guard is among the troops "We saw the Emperor almost surrounded by generals and staff officers. [...] At several officers were forced to draw their sabers their midst and might have been taken. One of the and wounding several more, lost his hat, and then he rushed at a Cossack and snatched away his lance moment he was spotted by a Horse Grenadier of the of his green cloak and lance, rode him down and Napoleon survives the incident, and determines crossing the bridge within range of Russian tactically it's a draw, and costs both sides though, it is an unintentional Russian but Napoleon never learns his way to Kaluga has been blocked, and the hapless French-led very same region that both armies had plundered The Russians have forced the Grande Armee and disaster looms. To make Russian forces go over to the attack far to On the northern front, Russian army general are militia, to pit against Oudinot and Wrede's General Fabian von Steinheil marching from Riga. force around Polotsk and capture the town's supply centers at Vitebsk, Minsk and Smolensk. capabilities in his corps to build a pontoon he decides to attack head-on and use his and Bavarians back. On October 18, the Russian columns arrive outside the town. In as Wittgenstein tries to advance his lead units French cavalry smashes into the Russian left, until more Russian horsemen arrive and the reserves into the center of their line, and after the Franco-Bavarians have no choice but Swiss Lieutenant Zimmerli recalls "For an hour and a half cannonballs our passive position we expected at any moment We were very happy when news came of a and we were called to defend it. At least Meanwhile, General Prince YashvIl advances on the manage to surround a Croatian regiment and force French artillery in Polotsk opens up. as the French make good use of field which divided the more numerous Russians but Saint-Cyr realises that with Stenheil the 2 and 6 corps make a hasty retreat across the Bavarians trapped on the northern bank and bound the Grande Armee about 4000 killed and wounded and The Bavarian corps is so weakened that Oudinot's 2 corps joins up with Victor's corps The Emperor's Russian campaign is of retreat is in danger of being cut off. In but bad news from Russia has been trickling in With the Emperor thousands of km away in Russia opponents of Napoleon's rule decide to risk had served in the French army before resigning Malet is a fervent republican, and is in a Paris He has connections to some other disgruntled Societe des Philadelphes, and Bourbon royalists in He's in prison with Catholic dissident the Abbe on October 22. Malet immediately puts his plan he presents forged documents declaring Napoleon's who believes him. One of the forgeries is an order France: the end of the empire, a popular vote for immunity for imperial officials, amnesty for and reconciliation with the Pope. two other imprisoned republican generals, who officials. Early on the morning of October 23, Ministry of Police, the local prefecture, The 1st Regiment of the Imperial Guard joins But when Malet confronts the Commander of Genera Hulin has Malet arrested, and the The Malet coup attempt fails, but it reveals of Frenchmen opposed to the Emperor on republican, fragility of Bonaparte's hopes for a dynasty. officials did not immediately call for Napoleon's regent. Regime change is considered possible even a thought that will give Napoleon cause for coup - for now, he has no idea. writes to her brother Eugene about the Malet "You must know by now about our Paris adventure. take it. We all laugh at the police, but we are will not sacrifice people who are devoted to him. those who have spirit, think that you are quite wise. But the rumor mill got a lot of people By the third week of October, is in shambles. His army is depleted, and the tide on the battlefield Tarutino, and Maloyaroslavets. Still, many of his "We could see that we were slowly perishing, in his many years of triumph, was so always ended with the conclusion that he must For the Russians, their strategic retreat, required terrible sacrifices from the army and the They have the enemy where they want him - now On October 26, with cold autumn and frost covering the earth at night, the retreat along the exact same route it had the Emperor of the French now carries a As Napoleon begins his retreat from days ahead of Marshal Kutuzov and pushing his men since his rearguard is struggling with discipline, to pull supply carts and form a cavalry raids. Within a few days, the Grande Armee and thousands of wounded left from the great French-led troops also trudge past the thousands Russian soldier Fyodor Glinka reaches Borodino look. Well before the frosts had arrived, mark. [...] Packs of wolves had come Birds of prey had flown from the nearby fields. cleaned the bones of their flesh." Lieven 261-262 is just east of the town of Vyazma, and Napoleon's troops are in a vulnerable Russian army general Mikhail MilorAdovich wants to so he attacks. The Russians manage to surround rush help Davout, and Kutuzov is once again slow are able to rejoin the main column, but they and wounded and 2000 prisoners, against Russian 4000 shops and warehouses burn to the ground. Even the capture of Vyazma is a boost to Russian "Our superiority was clear: the enemy had almost his artillery was weak and ineffective...we rejoiced superiority over the terrible enemy." Lieven 265 and an angry Napoleon puts Marshal As the Russian army re-takes Vyazma in the east, Russian army general Pyotr Wittgenstein begins line of retreat, and his forces clash near the village of ChAshniki on October clothing and supported by 114 guns advance At first, the French hold off the Russians but when the superior and more numerous Russian Napoleon is furious when he gets word of the is still under threat. General Berthier "Take the offensive--the safety of the whole mean a calamity. The army's cavalry is on foot March at once--it is the order of the Victor then launches the Battle In fierce fighting, the village changes hands to outflank the more numerous Russians. are killed or wounded, and the French The Grande Armee is still in and Wittgenstein is drawing closer to Napoleon's battlefield, there is no rest for weary Grande Tsar Alexander had called for the nation to but the Russians' most intense partisan starts on Napoleon's retreat from Moscow. that the constant and unpredictable will complement his strategy of "Since the autumn time is coming, the movements that's why I decided, avoiding a general battle, enemy's forces and his blunders give me more The Russian guerilla campaign that reaches its first are special detachments of regular troops, Russian partisan units are to block any roads Armee is on, monitor French movements, Sometimes, they cooperate like at the Battle of Vyazma. All this for the surviving men of the Grande Armee. these units, called parties, "The best position for the 'party' is To kill and to flee. [That] is the essence of The very first party created is commanded by famous figures of the war. Since he speaks French, camps in disguise to gather intelligence that His 200 men operated along the MozhAisk road destroying several guns, and earning their leader Tatar." (Troitskii, 371) Figner is also known for On November 9, Davydov, Figner and other operation of the war against an entire More than 3000 Russians surround the entire commanding officer General Jean-Pierre The second element of the guerilla campaign are them. They mostly defend their villages, carry supplies - one notable success occurs earlier in cattle and several flocks of sheep meant to Some peasants also avenge their suffering torturing, and killing prisoners. Kutuzov "It is difficult to stop a people a people who have not seen wars on a people ready to sacrifice themselves for between what is acceptable and what is The story of the peasant partisans will in particular, the case of VasilIsa KOzhina, a French prisoners - and possibly a combat - Moscow Governor Fyodor Rostopshin "Dorodnaia baba! A large woman, hung over her shoulder over a Ironically, at the same time that thousands of invaders, thousands of others take up arms against 60 local peasant uprisings across the Russian Russian military and civilian partisans Grande Armee soldiers - but so are The retreat of the Grande Armee from Moscow is one there's not enough food, and the Russia bringing temperatures as low as -23C. French-led troops are hardly recognizable as back in June - tens of thousands of deserters and making coordinated maneuver even more it is the worst-organized retreat ever and "The enemy army is fleeing like no other army its baggage, its sick and its wounded. It leaves one sees the dying or the dead." Lieven 261 November, and the men don't have proper clothing, officer Colonel von Kerner records the deadly "I have just seen the most appalling sight of campfires just as we left them last night, In a single night, 2500 Italian troops die of an experience they call the note The freezing troops are also starving, and mostly horse meat from the rapidly but also cats, straw, candles, axle the dead bodies of their fellow soldiers. writes of the catastrophe to his wife: I have never suffered this much. The campaigns and we are not at the end of happy to seize a few strips of flesh We cooked them on our campfires and The collapse of discipline makes hunger problems is, and when the first troops arrive in so those who arrive later go hungry. are also suffering from the extreme conditions. and the 850 carts of food they need every day men and 40,000 horses that need them. supplies and begin to go hungry as well - but The men of the Grande Armee have only one goal: they are again called upon to fight. column only has 36,000 men - about a third left Moscow. There are 10,000 fit soldiers in the Ney's, 6000 in Eugene's. 1000 in Junot's and just mounted cavalry remaining. They're accompanied including women and children. (Rey 244) on November 17, it once again faces grave Napoleon waits near the town of Krasny for Russian troops under Miloradovich and Kutuzov are the Russians from blocking the main road ahead of frozen and hungry French-led troops crash into as his men force the Russians back of encirclement. Russian partisan officer Denis "The Guard with Napoleon like a hundred-gun ship through Historians who take a more pro-French view of victory as justification for Napoleon preserving that even in the face of catastrophic conditions, present on the battlefield. The success is however Meanwhile, at the eastern end of the manages to isolate Ney's rearguard of 6000 men the rest of the Grande Armee does not come rushing "That bastard has abandoned us; he sacrificed What will become of us? Everything is fucked! have their balls hung by steel wire!" (Zamoyski) surrender, and launches a desperate blocking the road west. But the French-led troops That night, the Marshal and 1000 survivors Napoleon at Orsha. The escape earns Ney Marshal Ney's corps is destroyed, but there is only one more natural barrier between the Despite the French predicament, Marshal cold, and partisans weaken the French. On a is captured or killed, Britain might become and the Tsar himself want to be more aggressive. and General Wittgenstein will do the bulk and denies its supplies to Napoleon, the only the Berezina river is at the town of Borisov. attempt to move east to distract Chichagov, but stop them - in any case Schwarzenberg has orders will have to run the gauntlet. On November after covering the last 55km in just 24 hours, guarding the town back across the river. river on the 23rd, and quickly pushes back Russian lone bridge at Borisov. Since the weather has so it seems there is no escape. But two days French cavalry unit of a passable stretch of the On November 25, Napoleon and the Imperial Guard have found an alternate crossing, so he issues an he can be identified for capture: the Emperor is neck, strong head, and black hair." (Rey 269) Marshals Murat and Oudinot move their troops engineers brave the icy water to throw two bridges pretend to be preparing to cross at Borisov and the bait and moves troops south, while Napoleon The Grande Armee begins to cross the river learns he's been tricked, his and Wittgenstein's do manage to destroy the last French division most of the Grande Armee has crossed except morning of the 28th 30,000 stragglers, wounded, the bridges at Studienka in a disorganized mass. Borisov, and reposition their forces: Chichagov's vanguard are ready to attack the 19,000 troops On the 28th on the west bank, Russian numbers but Marshal Ney's cavalry manages a The fighting is fierce, as Grande Armee "We dared not look to the right or left our comrades. We closed ranks, shortened our line To get to our bridges they would have to go We shouted "Vive l'Empreur" and did not feel At the same time on the east bank, Wittgenstein's wounded, and civilians surging across the bridges. Wurttemberg officer Christian von "Musket and cannon balls beat down on the compact the thunder of the guns and the whistling of towards the bridge. Around the bridges rose mounds enemy fire; to get onto the bridge one had to the river carried them away from time to time, It's well after dark when the last of Victor's bodies and crossed the river to rejoin the on non-combatants on the east bank, but most or are made prisoner by the Russians. When French desperate figures try one last rush - many who commit suicide by throwing themselves As the Cossacks pillage the abandoned carts, Russian engineering officer "The first thing we saw was a woman One of her arms hung half severed, the other one neck. She was still alive, with her eyes fixed Between them lay another dead child." (Rey 278) In military terms, the Battle of the Berezina Napoleon managed to save the core of his forces, including his marshals, general staff, all For the Russians, it was a missed opportunity, He removes the Admiral from command and sends him Russian failure. The cost was incredibly heavy: 5000 non-combatants have been killed and 15,000 dead and wounded. (Rey 277-8) Armee at the Berezina, Kutuzov devises a new plan off Macdonald's 10th corps in the north at Riga. the Russians too are suffering from cold, hunger, Grande Armee, once 600,000 strong but now reduced is even worse. The road to Vilnius is choked several small-scale attacks along the way. leaving his men to struggle on through the snow 14. Napoleon's gruelling Russian campaign is a final army bulletin in which he admits defeat The same cannot be said for hundreds of thousands about 300,000 Grande Armee soldiers - half the of wounds, hunger, disease or exposure. Russian along with tens of thousands of civilians. harsh Russian winter for his defeat, sparking a "General Winter" certainly contributes to the command mistakes, and fierce Russian resistance the first snow falls. Russian myths also grow leaders like Joseph Stalin - even today's Vladimir for inspiration in forming national identity, In December 1812, the destruction of the most order. The Grande Armee maintained Napoleon's rule now it is gone. The prospect of an independent French allies Prussia and Austria, are now arrives in allied Prussian Koenigsberg, "[Konigsberg] displayed an insolent und Many inns refused to take us, saying 'Go away, The Russian army is intact, the and Britain is still fighting - 1813 promises