Oh my goodness. Ha ha ha ha ha Every time Hello everyone my name is Mackey. This is RC modified. We have a 1969 Chevy Camaro. You see the grille here? It's not as cool as the grille from this one. I bought this finished body that has holes in it already, This look is a lot cooler than this one. The quality is pretty good for a finished body. Wow It comes with a little supercharger. I don't know why Kyosho didn't include This thing will look pretty much just like this one, That's not all. I just worked on a new V8 supercharger blower engine. I just freshly made this thing as you can see. It's still being tested and all. Stay around to see this thing in motion. This body will be Duratrax, Basic Black. we have some wheels, engine sound, motor, and ESC. There will be a bunch of things showing up throughout the video. This is just to get started. And of course, we're using the M-Drift 2 chassis. Let's just get started. I got most of the chassis assembled. Now it's time for the V8 engine to get painted and assembled. The assembling process is pretty much If you're pretty good at assembling things, I cut this on the back here a little bit, so that the bell housing can get over it It's pretty cool :) I got the engine on the chassis. And now, I'm gonna put some wheels on it. Whoa Honestly, this is already cool. Oh, no... I thought the body is 275 millimeters wheelbase. Apparently, not it's 260. In the product description, this one is listed Which is wrong. It's actually 260 mm. Just like this clear one. So I'm gonna make it 260 real quick Okay, it's 260 now. Oh, man. If this body didn't have the body post holes on it, That is insane Of course, we always run into a problem. The front of the chassis is actually too far forward. So I'm gonna design another one that is a little bit shorter. ( Printing 3D design parts ) I just designed it and I'm printing it right now. While waiting I'm gonna work on other things. Okay just to show you guys a little bit. The front end of the chassis is a little bit too long. Also, the wheels are coming out too much. They're hitting the wheel wells. To fix that, I found out that I can trim out Because the wheel hub on the wheel is pretty deep, and it's not supposed to be that deep. At least it can't be deeper than the wheel hub on the chassis here. The hex here is 3 millimeters tall and So, I'm gonna trim it down two millimeters. Somehow? I'm gonna take the wheels and do this somewhere else. Because things are flying everywhere The short front mount is ready. It's about 7.25 millimeters shorter. There's a lot more room in the front now. The cutout for the supercharger here is perfect. I'm basically just gonna measure that I have 1 mm aluminum wires here that might Meow! Okay I got the roll case and a few parts design. I mainly need the roll cage right here to see I got the dash and the exhaust. I'm working on multiple things at the same time, It looks a little messy. While waiting for the paint to dry, Oh my goodness. So I didn't do the wiring correctly at one point. I corrected everything and I thought it would be fine. Turn it on. Well, that's a lot of smoke! I basically just need a new ESC. There is one trick I want to tell you guys. Sometimes the jumper doesn't work, So what I usually do, is to make the terminals This way the terminals will make contact better The rubber band keeps coming off. I'm gonna use superglue to glue it. The paint on the roll cage is dried. VROOM VROOM? I added a spring right here. I got a radiator. I also got some silicone hoses. Okay I haven't got much done today. Let's try to move faster! The chassis wiring is finally done. It's time for the roll cage. All the seats and everything I got some shifters, a handbrake, pedal box. And NOS Can't forget that. Making sure nothing is breaking. Seat belts are next. Last two. I need to order more. They are red for racing. Red for racing. Alright It shouldn't take too long. And then three hours later... Wow Almost 3 hours. I was joking but... the reality is not joking with me I have to use tweezers. I have a regular one and a Tamiya one for the stickers. They're very useful. It is finally done! Forgot the clutch. And now it's time... For the body. The front grille will have to come off from this one. For the side mirrors and windshield wipers, I'm gonna cut this off and then use the screws instead. All the masking tape. I think it's time to paint. Duratrax, Basic Black. Tamiya tweezer. It's been about 15 minutes or so after the last coat. And I'm not gonna touch the paint. But I'm gonna take out the masking tape real quick, just so that it's easier now than later when it's all dried. It's sticker time. I want to mention something. There are some stickers that Just like these reverse light stickers for example. I might have to cut and use the old stickers that I have laying around instead. (3D print reverse light that I made ) I have some very small LED lights. This way I don't have to make a light bucket for it. I'll just use Teflon fiberglass tape to tape it onto the body. Guess what guys? You don't have to buy this completed body Kyosho just released an unfinished version of it. Just now! It even has the marking for the hood cutout. I started all these two months ago. Ahhhh Okay Let's finish this thing. This body came with black stripes sticker. So, I'm using the white ones from Whoa I'm done with the stickers. For real Finally, it's time for the LED lights. I'm installing the fog light and turn signal. It turns out the fog light is too bright. So I'm using a black permanent marker so that it's a little dimmer. I have a new crimping tool because I wanted to make it look cleaner. So I found a common wire which is a positive wire. You can see that I have and one positive wire going to the back. That saves a lot of wires. I'm gonna tape all the wires down I'm gonna show you how this thing works. Let's start with the battery. This is how you take it off. Turn on the remote first. And then the main switch. This one is ride height. This one is the horn. Channel 3 is clutch. Ha ha ha ha Every time. Without clutch. Channel 4 got two positions. In the first position, I used it for the LED lights. The second position for the V8. There you have it guys. This American muscle is finally done. I hope you guys enjoyed it and find this helpful. Don't forget to like, comment, and subscribe. I will see you again next time.