I tested 45 frying pans, and in this video, I give you my honest review of These pans range from $20 to them in order from least to most expensive. At the end, I'll give you my top picks and a comparison table that shows how Before I get started, one quick thing. Throughout each review, you'll and results from heat conduction and I measure heat conduction by to boil 2 cups of water. And I measure water from the heat and measuring the Without further ado, let's get started. The Farberware Classic frying and doesn't hold heat well. The plastic degrees Fahrenheit in the oven. Unless budget is your The Lodge Classic cast iron skillet is one of the holds heat well, it comes pre-seasoned, that the rough surface causes food to Do not buy the Blue Diamond and because of that, it doesn't maintain a and the ceramic non-stick Henckels HXagon is a hybrid pan with coating underneath from scratches. It's a and cooks eggs without sticking. You'll but it's affordable and lasts Ninja is being sued for false advertising 30,000degF during manufacturing, of the sun and defies the laws of but this small egg pan has been good to me and Circulon's big differentiator is the circular NON-STICK SYSTEM. The raised parts are supposed In my experience, all they do is cause food to All-Clad Essentials has a thick hard-anodized a comfortable handle, and steep sides. or grilled cheese. The main downside is that This is the sleeker version of Lodge the sides have a more gradual slope, and like Lodge but the Classic is too heavy, The Calphalon cast iron skillet is and doesn't cost much. However, for the same Lodge skillet that performs the same but has The Golidlocks frying pan has and thickness of brands like All-Clad the price. The flat handle won't rotate when thicker. There's not much to grab onto, I've used the Misen non-stick pan daily for it heats fast and evenly, and the surface got scratched and worn down, Zwilling Motion has thick walls, which warping. And the 2.3-inch sidewalls are food in this pan. The downside is that the and there's no steel base plate, so you Legend Copper Core is listed as a frying pan, sides are almost completely vertical. It's it's the heaviest stainless steel pan I've tested. Caraway pans are beautiful and colorful and, according to Caraway, are safer for you the ceramic non-stick coating doesn't hold It's a nice-looking pan at first, but don't Misen stainless steel offers the same as much more established brands but costs much or delaminate. It has a comfortable handle, All-Clad HA1 cooks evenly, retains heat has a steel plate on the bottom to make The main downside is the cup-shaped but it's uncomfortable, and the The Sardel frying pan has flared rims the edges are sealed. The long 9-inch but it's rounded. When your hand is wet or greasy, The Heritage Steel Eater Series it has a brushed exterior that hides fingerprints, on top and won't rotate in your hand. It's a The Anolon X frying pan has a steel mesh and caramelization, flush rivets for easy and secure. The downside is that the walls are Made In carbon steel has thin walls that make it on my testing, it's the second fastest pan to comfortable and it's angled 4.5 inches high, so NS Pro is the upgraded version of All-Clad HA1. It sloped sidewalls, and a longer-lasting non-stick At 2.2 mm, the walls of the Great Jones stainless it's one of the worst performing pans the looped handle looks nice, it's not Cooksy is almost exactly the same as HexClad surface with raised steel hexagons to prevent is thicker and it's welded instead of riveted. The Made In pan is listed as a 12-inch pan, but a large flared rim. It reminds me of Heritage comfortable and secure handle. But, according The Xtrema pan is made of pure ceramic. It's the slowest heating pan I tested, food sticks, drop it. I want to like this pan because of its I've used the Heritage Steel Titanium frying retains heat well, and the titanium only thing I don't like is that the like the Sardel handle, it can The Made In non-stick pan has the same 5-ply steel pans, but also has a multi-layer it's excellent. But the price is high for a The Our Place Always pan claims to be a it's an overpriced aluminum pan with a and shallow steamer basket. This is on Stargazer cast iron is more expensive longer handles, wider helper handles, appealing to you, it is well worth the investment. The Caraway stainless steel frying pan responds but it has below average heat retention, straight rims, and the handle was HexClad is a polarizing brand with aggressive years and although it's expensive, it sears well, and the steel hexagons keep the coating intact for Demeyere Industry has a beautiful brushed sloped walls and flared rims. The handle has a keeps it cool. It's a well-designed pan with All-Clad D3 is a well-rounded pan that conducts handle. The deep groove locks your hand and pan. But it's not comfortable. Only buy D3 Everyday is the upgraded version making it longer and much more comfortable with All-Clad G5 Graphite Core is one of the lightest it's one of the fastest to heat and respond to heat well and you need to pay close attention Smithy is expensive for a cast iron prevents sticking. It also has a thick which is ideal for searing and that the initial seasoning quickly wears Field is a pricey but well-designed cast iron maneuverability. The surface is smooth, but not handle is long but they removed excess material also made the helper handle small and skipped 360 Cookware is made in the USA, and it doesn't offer any advantages over less expensive and has a goofy-looking helper handle that's All-Clad D5 has the same cup-shaped handles the exterior is brushed instead of polished, core. If you accidentally turn the heat too The Hestan ProBond TITUM non-stick pan heats fast flush rivets are easy to clean, and the handle is and the large hanging loop at the end of the All-Clad Copper Core is similar to All-Clad D5, inches, the exterior is polished, and instead of The copper results in fast even heating, but At 5.5 mm, Demeyere Atlantis is the thickest cast iron but doesn't require the seasoning or it's incredible for searing meat the welded handle can break off. Hestan CopperBond heats fast comfortable handle, a wide cooking surface, it's heavy, doesn't retain heat well, and Hestan NanoBond has thousands of steel. This gives it a blue tint, a silky texture, and makes the steel harder and more resistant to less likely to stick. I love everything The Matfer copper pan heats incredibly there's a space between the pan and bacteria can harbor, and That was a lot of information, side by side. A few things jump out Pans with thin walls, less than 3mm, tend Similarly, pans made with copper heat up Thicker pans tend to heat Stainless steel pans advertised as 5-ply are Both are about 2.9mm thick on average. The flat cooking surface of most pans is 76% Legend, Smithy, Field, and All-Clad The flat part of those pans is Lastly, price doesn't correlate with better So, which of these pans are worth In the non-stick category Hestan ProBond the best but are also much more expensive than I All-Clad Essentials, Zwilling Motion, Avoid Caraway, Our Place Always Symmetry. They're either too expensive, the And, although Smithey, Stargazer, and Field smooth cooking surfaces, you can't beat the Stainless steel is the most challenging many great options. But Demeyere out. Demeyere because of its super thick And Hestan because it has the toughest If you're willing to splurge, those spend a little less and still get excellent Demeyere Industry, and both Heritage Steel budget is your top priority, Goldilocks The only stainless steel pans I would avoid If you want to learn more about these and websites that sell each pan in the so I'll earn a commission if you click If this was helpful, check out the differences between All-Clad and click the logo to subscribe to the channel. Thanks