Hi everyone. It's Kunihiro. Thank you for to show you how to make Gyudon a Japanese thinly sliced beef and onion in sweet soy It's a very popular comfort food here Alright, so these are today's ingredients. By the So here I have 300 grams of thinly sliced beef going to use a little bit of it when I cook the So I have 400 milliliters of water, one tablespoon soy sauce, 3 tablespoons of sake, 2 tablespoons piece of fresh ginger. And these two are common red pickled Ginger and this is the shichimi these two are commonly served on the side allowing change in taste. But these two are totally optional. So first, let me talk about beef I assume some Gyudon before. But the meat became tough and dry used meat with less fat. The ideal meat for making lots of fat like this one. In Japan this type It has plenty of fat and red meat itself is tender. outside of Japan. So today, I will show you how to beef shoulder loin instead, which is relatively I think this one is a lot easier to find in Asian method can also be used with the already tender So, how do we tenderize this leaner and more So first please cut off both then cut the onion in half, peel the skin and grate half the onion If you are afraid of damaging your You can use the leftover onion Then get the sliced beef, put and mix them gently with your hand. By doing this, gradually break down the muscle fibers of the So please cover it with plastic and let it rest in So while waiting for the beef to be softened, let's remaining half of the onion lengthwise along the to remain after cooking. The thickness of each Also, slice the leftover onion from earlier. And after cutting, please separate all the Alright, the onion is done. Next, let's cut the Then line them up like this and Put them on a small dish. And ginger is done And since Gyudon is a rice bowl dish, please don't times until the water becomes relatively clear. And when cooking rice for Rice Bowl dishes, water. This way the rice won't be mushy Turn on the rice cooker then your rice will 30 minutes later, please take the beef out of the good to go. Okay, now that we have finished Please get a large frying pan. Then add 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil to the And once the frying pan has become hot, please add the onion to the pan. Then sprinkle a pinch of salt over them. The salt flavor of the onion. And we will saute the onion the onion slices will bring the best flavor out to ensure the onion becomes just as flavorful as doesn't. Your final product will be disappointing. stage, please do not touch them too often. So I Okay. It looks great. So once the onion has turned golden brown like this, take it out Next, to the same pan, we'll So please add 400 milliliters of water and one tablespoon of instant Dashi powder. Then add 3 tablespoons of soy sauce. It will Then 3 tablespoons of sake. Sake will give richness meat smell. Then 2 tablespoons of Mirin. and gentle sweetness. Then add one tablespoon of So, by combining sugar and mirin, you can create ginger. It will add a hint of Ginger flavor. Now And once the sugar has dissolved, and add all the beef slices Then please gently separate the beef slices in the cold, you can prevent the meat from forming lumps. to the broth so that we don't have to add the onion to the broth now, it will be way too soft by grated onion as a way to enhance the broth while Next, while waiting for the broth to boil, Please cut aluminum foil to the size Then crumple it like this and flatten it back out. Finally make a hole in the center and and it's ready. Now, let's get back to the pan. And when the broth and put the drop lid directly over the beef. And cook down. During those 20 minutes, the broth will A long simmering time will allow the beef to soften By the way, at this point, and your broth should look like this under And if your foil is not covering the the beef around every 5 minutes so that all After simmering for 17 minutes, please Give it a quick mix. And continue simmering for just three more minutes. flavorful, the sliced onion will quickly After three more minutes of And from here, please let it rest for 5 By doing this, all the flavors will more delicious. And 5 minutes later, So please get a big bowl of rice. And Then pour the flavorful broth over it. And in the end, add color to the And that's it. Your delicious Gyudon is ready. The tenderly simmered beef infused with flavorful broth the onion with the perfect texture, and the rice that has absorbed the rich broth, Alright, so that's it for today. I hope you enjoyed me a like and leave a comment below. Also if you and follow me on x. Thank you so much for watching.