In today's chess video, I'll show you The most popular variations from here are e6, the Slav defense c6 &amp; the Albin countergambit. We'll first look at 5 traps for black &amp; then Let's begin with the most beautiful trap. We'll start with the Albin counter gambit. White takes, and then d4. This is all standard stuff. Now here, the most popular, and probably the popular move, which quite a lot of people The idea is that this pawn is restricting to get rid of it and e3 is the best option. But here's where you can start setting up First, bishop b4 check, blocking with the And now we pick up this pawn on e3, enticing If he tries to be greedy and goes for it, First pawn takes. It's a check. The king has to support his partner, so king And look, now if you take the knight and promote the queens first. It's a check so you'll have to take back, If you look at it, the game is almost equal, advantage. Therefore, in this position, the killer move and not a queen. Now this is a check, so white can't exchange So, say for example, rook takes. Then you have the bishop check, and its goodbye In this position, even if he plays king e1, And if king d2, then knight c6, you can activate and just destroy the king. I want to go back to this position. Now here, even if he does not capture the you have queen h4 check, and then you can This is still a better position for black. So even if white doesn't fall for it, you'll Alright, now let's look at another cool After white takes, pawn d4 and then knight Knight c6 defends it. And now instead of e3, white can also think this square is covered by the pawn. Then queen e7 is something I would go for. And here, there are many ways in which white We're putting pressure on this e5 pawn, diagonal. And if white is really concerned about this, In which case, you can capture this pawn, But, that's a big big blunder, its curtains Can you find the crushing move for black? Yes, it is knight to d3, and that's a stunning He just can't take with the pawn, because Moving on, now let's look at one of the declined which starts with e6, Knight c3, center. Then bishop g5 pins the knight. And here, you play this cunning little knight Now it might seem that after takes, takes, this knight is pinned to the queen, but that's the knight. And if bishop takes queen, you first play So, the queen has to sacrifice herself for And ultimately after all the dust has settled, a 3 point advantage. We call this the elephant trap. Anyway, let's move on to the next one. Similar to the previous variation, after the the elephant trap, and he might continue with Here you'll play c6, which is kind of similar Knight f3 is again a standard response and to a5. We call this the Cambridge springs defense. If white continues with his standard development can respond with d takes on c4. If he recaptures, then knight e4 puts a lot time, attacks the bishop. It is very easy for white to focus all his play queen c2, adding a defender, and at the But they miss the fact that after takes, takes, gobble up the knight. I can't even tell you how many people fall Anyway! Going back, the best move here for white is So, takes, takes, then we have a queen check, to protect his bishop. But even if white plays this correctly, you along the queenside. Actually, there's one more beautiful line you. Here, instead of taking this pawn, if you takes, pawn takes. Now since both these pieces are under attack, And here if you decide to take, white will And now many of you might straightaway just BUT. That's a Big, Big blunder. Because white has this stunning move - queen So, be careful about this knight e4 variation. Anyway! Let's move onto our next trap. This time after we decline with e6, knight We both capture towards the center, this is And then white takes on d4, also defending Now, here we'll play knight c6. He can't take because the queen is hanging. So, he goes back to d1, pawn takes, queen Let's play bishop e6. After he takes, we get our rook on this open But here if white is not careful and plays killer move knight to d4, threatening not There's no easy way for him to defend. Even if he tries to make some space for the up the rook. Going back, in this position, even a natural trouble after you play knight to b4. It's the same idea, and you'll still pick Alright, I have 5 more traps to show you. But before that, I would like to thank Blinkist, Blinkist is a wonderful online platform which podcasts in a condensed form. It has an enormous library of over 5000 titles into 15 minute capsules of information, called These Blinks are available in both audio as I've been using this app for a few months ideas to improve my productivity. One book I really enjoyed listening to was It is power-packed with helpful nuggets to habits. Like, the '2 minute rule' - which says you the activity to make it a habit. So, if you want to start studying, make sure paragraph every day... and if you make this a few pages once you've started. That's such a great hack! Blinkist has many other great titles like And even Garry Kasparov's 'Deep Thinking'. So, if you're not into reading, or don't learn &amp; get inspired by the best non-fiction Right now, Blinkist is offering a 7 day free Talk viewers. Just click the link in the description and Alright, now let's look at some traps for This is the queen's gambit &amp; now let's E3 &amp; we're ready to take it back with the Ideally, black should just forget about this But if he is desperate to hold onto this pawn We have a4 attacking the defender. Now there are a couple of ways he can defend A6 doesn't work obviously because after Now what if he plays bishop d7 in this position? Well, then takes, takes &amp; now you can play If he goes back, then you might think black the pawn &amp; this knight is defending the bishop. But white is just crushing it, can you find Yes, its queen f3. Now he can't move his knight because then So, c6 is the only option. But now the knight is overloaded. So, we can play the killer move - rook takes And look at this, knight takes &amp; then it's Believe it or not, queen d7 is the only legal We take the rook. Again, blocking with the queen is the only So we come back &amp; this time we pick up the We've just wiped off the entire queenside This is clearly winning for white. Let's go back. Now in this position, if he defends with c6, queen f3 attacks the rook &amp; you ultimately Now in the queen's gambit accepted line, &amp; he just develops naturally. Knight f6, bishop takes, and then many black castle on the kingside. So g6, and here you play knight f3. Now when he plays bishop g7, you play this Now, there are a variety of ways in which them get him into trouble, apart from one. But let's start with the most common moves. I'm sure many of you are thinking of bishop But then queen b3 - attacks two birds with Even if he castles, you can put serious pressure Anyway! So, bishop d7 - not that good. Now what if he plays knight to c6. Well, then again you have knight e5 attacking If he castles, you just trade off the knights And here if he defends with the bishop, then Okay, let's go back. What else? What if he plays this knight to d7? Well, then you have the stunning bishop sacrifice. And after king takes, then you go knight g5 If king e8, then the sweety is trapped, just If king f8, again, it's a beautiful fork And if king g8, then we have a mate in 4. Can you find it? Here we go, we start with queen c4 check, the threat is queen f7 mate. Therefore, he blocks, we take, he blocks again...and checkmate. Alright, now what if he blocks with this knight? Well, then again you have the bishop sacrifice, If he goes back, you have the same ideas as Eventhough now he also has this option of because the king is out in the open, so just The engine gives white a massive 6-point advantage. Okay, let's go back. How else can he block the check? Queen d7? Well, then again, you have the bishop check. If king takes, then you have the stunning So basically, he will have to move his king to castle, and you can simply play bishop to go. Alright, now the only move which probably Although there are no clear-cut traps here, and that's the good thing about this trap. Basically, there are many ways in which black you will most probably end up with a solid Alright, moving on to our next trap for white. Let's check out some variations where he This is the Slav defense. After a few natural development moves, we the pawns. And now that this central pawn is kind of The point is that you are attacking both these about this. Two of the most popular responses are queen that great. By the way, can you find the best move for Well, believe it or not, the best move actually does not look that great - but that's Anyway, let's look at the popular responses. If queen b6, then don't exchange the queens. Instead, just capture this pawn first. And if he takes the knight, you can take back And if he takes the queen, then don't take is hanging. Therefore, first knight f6 check - an in the queen. Going back, in this position, the second most And can you find the crushing move here? Well, the best move is pawn to e4. You open up this diagonal for the bishop, from both sides. So, for example, if pawn takes, you go knight E6 and bishop e6 are black's only defenses, b5 check. He'll have to block with any of these knights. And then you can play something like bishop because they are pinned and yet they have Eventually, both the knights will fall &amp; then After e4, here even if he captures with the thing. After the exchanges, again we are threatening And this is a variation where he captures First you give a check, then you exchange Moral of the story is that in the Slav defense, probably he will, then you can literally finish Okay, now let's look at another trap in So d4, d5, c4, and here black goes for the In this game, you'll see a series of natural Bishop g5 - pinning the knight, bishop e7, for the bishop. Black castles, we develop the other knight. Knight b to d7. Then we eliminate the central pawn, black Black gets his rook on this semi open file, Then c6 from black. He solidifies the center and prevents the Now this is a very common setup in the Queen's orders to reach this position. Now here's where you set the trap. First, let's castle. And now one of the most common moves black also making some room for the king. So, we go back, and here many players are for that, they play knight h5 trying to exchange But that's a mistake. Can you find the best move for white? Well, the brilliant move is, knight takes He can't even think of taking the knight Therefore, taking the knight is not a good And even if he takes the bishop, you simply a central pawn, which is quite a healthy advantage. Alright, let's check out our next trap. In this game, we'll look at the Albin counter The main line goes as follows. D takes on e5, pawn to d4, knight f3 attacks to fianchetto the bishop. Bishop g4, attacking the knight - also indirectly Bishop g2, then queen d7 is the main move, Now here, castling would seem like a very opponent, you can go for h3. Now here, many black players get confused Going back would seem just a waste of a move. Therefore, taking the knight is the best option. Also, this exchange provides black the opportunity But the problem is that if he takes, then Therefore, a very natural move for black is with the king, and also activate the rook But guess what, black has fallen into your Can you find the winning move here? Well, the crushing move is bishop to g4, pinning But hold on, what if he blocks with f5? Will you take with the bishop? Well, that doesn't work because black can So, what do you do? Yes, you'll capture this pawn en-passant, And this time there's no way for the queen Alright, so it's puzzle time. In this position, it is white's turn, and Do share your answers in the comments section Guys, don't forget to like and subscribe, description box below. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in