It's terrible being trapped in a Scottish accent (audience laughs) I didn't know this was my voice till I moved to In my head, I talk like and then moved down south and people just looked at me So, I've lived there and it's largely great, the But one of the hardest things what my English friends is repeat what in a bad Scottish accent. And they always have &quot;She is gonna love (audience laughs) I've got one friend that her name's Haley. She's always like, &quot;Fern, &quot;this is my impression 'Hello, I'm Fern Brady!'&quot; (chuckles) Thanks, Haley, This is my impression of you, about the time I gave (fakes laughter) Sorry, still not getting you fucking cow. (audience laughs) I never really thought much and then I moved to England And then you realize that to this cartoon version where you're aggressive, allergic to salad, right? Youse all know It's hard for me to live 'cause I'm quite quiet offstage, salad, can't get enough of it. I was considered almost quite Scottish middle class, not Scottish middle class is where and Mum makes you (audience laughs) Don't like drinking either. This is quite a weird thing and a professional comedian, And not because I'm I just don't need to drink to in social situations. Guys, that is a gift that Here's another thing, Never needed alcohol To make me a slut (audience laughs) I seemed to accept I enjoy pumping sea monsters, why bother with the (audience laughs) Big-time stoner, Turns out me, for this job. (audience laughs) Oh man, I love to smoke joints. But I've had to quit it because my memory I had to Google the 'cause I no longer knew (audience laughs) I'd been smoking heavily and I was like, &quot;All that is just government And then I went to say I've been going out with the so I know his name, right, I went to say his name, is this cunt even Who knows? (audience laughs) See, when I was growing up, whenever I saw Scottish it seemed to rely on And it was the kind of &quot;Oh, aren't we all just fat, &quot;eating chips out a bin? Ha, ha, ha.&quot; That's what it was, right, I don't like slagging I'm not comfortable with it, And that is the world of (audience laughs) Which I made the terrible This is a real category of porn, I'm not making it up Don't watch it. But a lot of you are drinking. You seen it? He's cheersing, he's seen it. Scottish porn's the most Comes a close second and at least in that they're &quot;We did this for a piece (audience laughs) I've watched literally every Scottish for the purposes of this show. Some of the clips you're like, &quot;How can I even tell there's not much dialogue?&quot; Let me tell you, I knew. With a depressing inevitability, 'cause it was just pale, smashing against each like water balloons (audience laughs) Every few seconds, a wee voice &quot;Oh, Aye.&quot; (gags) Or, memorably, (audience laughs) I clicked on this PornHub clip, it said, &quot;Scottish girl When I put it on, literally paying PS1,000 a month And I watch amateur stuff, rather than slickly shot, 'cause it's more ethical. That's what a hipster What they lack in muscle tone they make up for with (audience laughs) Youse know what I mean, I've had to stop watching it and go back to the professional Firstly, can't control in people's homemade sex tapes. I had to turn off 'cause they were &quot;Everybody's Changing&quot; Oh, which will come first, (audience laughs) And here's another thing, if you want to make a sex tape, but for the love of God, would you lock up (audience laughs) Do you know the number of times I've just sadly closed 'cause there's been a couple really happy, really oblivious to just the sight sauntering in the background, &quot;Meow, this is my I put one on the other day, it had a couple were American college amateurs. And in the background there was just a sad Dogs are pure innocence just looking at them like, I watch lesbian porn, mostly, is largely made So it will have these that go on for 10 to 15, Well why don't I just watch (audience laughs) Men in the audience, do you are coming after that bit? I have a list of little tasks that I need to get done and the one that and I feel bad I always think about it, I'm at the beginning of a wank, it's another fantastic day I think, it'd take you seconds to put some Blu Tack over the camera of your laptop, And one day someone's going and steal footage of me wanking. That's a thing, yeah. Then it's career over, or the start of a (audience laughs) This is what stops me doing it, I think, Fern, don't Realistically, who's going of a 33-year-old woman sheets pulled up to my chin-- (audience laughs) Don't want Jesus to see. Or my dead grandparents, (audience laughs) Triple chins, just. (audience laughs) Completely dead-eyed Who needs facial Facial expressions are for (audience laughs) There's a market There's a market for dead-eyed I know it. Whenever I get asked I always say it is accessible, suitable for the (audience laughs) Then you start reading over the years. Mine's are always they're always, &quot;Blunt, I don't read reviews, but I, it opened with, (audience laughs) That was a nice review. Who's this scary woman I'm a lovable, nice girl. And I'd always wondered why and then I was doing and a woman came up to me &quot;Just so you know is a description of a you should look into it.&quot; (audience laughs) One guy just laughed then like, &quot;Oh, thank God, she realizes.&quot; It was the tenth person One of them was me into Looked into it, I'll be honest, guys. It's not I've always felt like an alien trapped in a beautiful The rest of the show of the diagnosis and how and then we all have (audience laughs) I'll just tell you where I thought it'd be cracking where people recognize and say they like your stuff. Then it started happening &quot;Oh, I forgot, I don't have any A guy came up to me He was like, &quot;Hey, I've I really like your stuff.&quot; In my head when this happens, &quot;Ah, thank you so much.&quot; The way I responded, was by silently holding and holding both his hands, and just smiling into like Kate Middleton when like Kate Middleton when at the opening of Don't let that put you just know I've been coached by my autism therapist, Jemima. (audience laughs)