This is one of the longest 383 characters long even though the limit This username is so long you can only see about 10% of it. It has to put three dots. And then even when you hover over it and the little grey thing pops you still only see about 50% of it. Most of it is cut off on the left there. In fact, one of the only ways to see this channel in its entirety is to subscribe to the channel and then unsubscribe from the channel. And YouTube will now allow you to scroll through the entire username. It is so long, oh my God. (laughs) I made this channel three years which has since been fixed because I was on a quest to get the longest username ever printed onto a real silver play button. I'd previously made called which was exactly 50 characters long. And when I reached 100K on that channel, I eventually got it thus getting the longest onto a play button. But I wanted to get an printed on a play button, and this was the channel So when this channel reached I applied for my play button, but basically had issues You'll see when I insert my username into my play button order, obviously it did not work. And when I contacted they told me that obviously the I'm not meant to have a username that is 382 characters long. They even had the audacity to suggest I input a shorter name. How dare you? But unfortunately, after a lot of back and forth with YouTube support, I eventually did have to settle of the username that was So sad. But this was still the longest username that a YouTube play button had ever seen. So I received lots of very funny emails while my order was being processed. And when the award finally the username was indeed than my previous longest play button, and I was very excited about that as you'll see from this clip. We're 23 and a half! Now, a quick side note, as well as the longest on a real YouTube play button. I also have the shortest on a real play button. Look, you could barely even see it, teeny tiny little i. Oh cute. But that's a different story. I'm getting distracted. Anyway, I was very happy with my new longest The video I made about it actually became the most viewed video on my entire YouTube channel, and then displayed this silver proudly for the next two years. That was until I was recording a video showing off my YouTube collection. And when I got to the something truly terrible happened. What is on my finger? Oh my God, what the! Wha-! - [Becky] Stop! - It's the letters. Wha-! I've just got... What the! Why the? (laughs) I've just got letters on me finger. Can you see that? You get a good shot of it? Oh my God, look at the YouTube logo. Whoa! Whoa!! What! What!! Yeah, the letters on the play button literally just started peeling off. Presumably it's because slightly differently in order A Y has literally just come off while I've been talking. Watch this. We can literally get the YouTube logo and just pull basically Oh my God! So when this happened, I asking if I could order a replacement. And they told me they'd which is nice, isn't it? Now, when I was sent this first I wasn't exactly friends They kind of had to keep due to a certain diamond But these days, me and YouTube and Society Awards - we're best friends. YouTube comment on my Society Awards helped me fix PewDiePie's diamond play button. So I decided I'd be a bit cheeky and I'd email and say, &quot;Is there any chance you'd print the full username this time? I know it's, you know, but you know, we're best mates now. Go on.&quot; And Society Awards got back to me and said, &quot;No, obviously not. We can print 50 characters and that's it.&quot; Now, I understood and expected that response from Society Awards, but I still had an idea of how I could get a You see, different characters are physically different widths. For example, the than the lowercase T and the widest characters that you can get in the English alphabet and the uppercase M, which is why when YouTube launched YouTube handles last year, I set my long channel username You get it, you get it. (laughs) Because even though the printed on this play button and that YouTube handle are if you were to put them side by side, one would be physically So I emailed Society Awards and I said, &quot;Would you 'Cause you know it is my handle. It's part of my YouTube channel and I could fit the handle on. So that makes sense, right? Yeah, let's put the handle on instead of the abbreviate username.&quot; So Society Awards got back to me again and they said, no. The only thing that we're gonna print is the thing that is already Please stop emailing us.&quot; (laughs) So a couple of weeks later, and inside here should be that is printed on this award, but with a print that and peel off like this does. But it is not over because of how I can break my long I'll get to that in a moment. But first we need to Now it did arrive kind of very beaten up and just hanging out, but I promise I've not looked at it yet. So let's see the fella. (laughs) Anything else in there? We got our letter. Where's me packaged by Rick card? Ah, my YouTube letter's all creased and I'm missing my packaged by Rick card! Either way, let's have That looks absolutely amazing. And as you can see, the when I touch it with my finger, We now have two longest but one is very broken. So now for my genius idea, I think that this play and getting damaged was destiny. There is just so much on my I think I've been given to get the full 383 characters printed onto a real play button. Do you see what I'm getting at yet? I'm gonna remove every single character from this play button and then replace it with a custom vinyl that has the full 383 characters on it, thus creating the new on a real YouTube play button. I reached out to my friend Jason who's helped me out with a few and using the exact dimensions he's created a professional vinyl that should fit onto here perfectly, and it is inside of this envelope, but step one is to entirely from this play button. Now, some bits come but hopefully if I just keep doing this, eventually everything will be gone. I'm gonna try and get a see if that does anything. Okay, we're getting somewhere, more and more is going. (laughs) All right, it's time to get for these tricky bits. Come on, get out of here E! There he goes. Oh my God, the finger is Yeah, that's getting rid of Okay, I think every character's gone. I just need to clean it up now. Spray, spray, spray and wipe, wipe, wipe. Oh my God, I've got This is the first ever blank play button. I almost wanna just leave it like this. I'll give it a wipe with the And now you can see the label is pretty much completely removed. In certain lights, you but when we put the hopefully that will be completely gone. So next, I guess I need which is equally very exciting. Oh, I feel like there's Oh yes. (laughs) Oh, it's a sample. Well, that's nice. Jason, you write like a real font. That is beautiful. Oh! (laughs) Get zoomed in on that, guys. Is it that beautiful? So it looks like I've just in case anything goes So does it line up? All the dimensions should be correct. Oh, it just looks so So let's give it one last real good wipe and then, oh, I'm nervous now 'cause this is the bit Right, I might not be 'cause I need to concentrate. So step one is to peel it. Yeah, you see where That means I have to go back down and give it a good rub to make sure that the letters all stick All right, attempt number two. Look at that. The S isn't sticking. Why is the S staying down? Trying again. Ah, that S is troublesome. Look at him. What a little troublemaker. I'm gonna see if the We'll flip it over. We'll try rubbing it Okay, here we go. Nice. Yes, this is better. This is looking better. Keep it up. Keep it up. Steady. Carefully does it, all the way along. Yeah, we're having no Oh, the E, the E's not coming. Don't do this to me YouTube. We don't want anything rip. There we go. There we go. Gently does it. Gently does it. Nice. No, no, no, no! There we go. There we go. Come on, all the way now. No, the R. (laughs) Yep, yep, yep. No, no, no. God, the I. All right, all right, we've got it. We've done it. We've done it. So now it's just the very stressful part where I have to make sure Oh my God. Oh God, it's already Oh God, well, we may just It's not perfectly in the middle though. It won't lift back up. We're just gonna have to go with it. It is basically centred though, so now I just have to flatten it all down and then peel it back up again. Hopefully that should be flat enough. And now it is time for the peel away. This is the scary bit. Well, some bits are working Oh God, I'm whacking my I'm getting quite stressed. Okay, and now we peel from this corner. Nice. Nah, no. O, come on. Why is the O not peeling? (laughs) Okay, this time I've given Yes, yes, very nice. That's what we like to see. This is beautiful. Okay, don't do this to me, O. Why O? Why? Why must you be like this O? No! My God, O, you really made Everything else is looking okay though. Yes. Yes, this is beautiful. All the way. All the way. Let's have a perfect run now. Oh my God, it looks What do you think? We've got 383 characters here. More than that actually. We've got like over 400 in total with the 'YouTube' and the 'presented to'. Are we gonna have any more issues? I think we're okay. My God, this is looking Here we go. We're nearly there. Don't wanna go too fast, just in case I have to This is it, the final step. It's about to be perfect. Yes... Go on... And... (tense music) No! (laughs) Oh no! The first letter! (laughs) Oh God! This is an emergency. That was outrageous. I can't believe that. Does it look good there? I think so, yes. Now we go for the peel. Beaut... No, no, no. My God, this J, I hate it so much. All right, there. (laughs) Wow! And as easy as that, we now have the new longest created with a real YouTube play button. Oh my God, it actually looks This is incredible. (laughs) I know I haven't put I know there's little imperfections. But I think that looks good enough. I am very, very happy with this. Thank you so, so much Hopefully you did enjoy. Click that like and that subscribe button and I will see you later.