The Seychelles, the end of September 2009. Southeasterly winds blow over the islands. It's the end of the rainy season. A time when tourists and around the fish markets, while at the other end about 30 French and Spanish tuna boats in an atmosphere of tension and stress. Since 2007, the Indian Ocean Fear has a name here, piracy. Every day, to face the dangers of the elements and to attack ships sailing Around 100 such ships have so far No ship is safe, or a tuna boat such as this one, which was attacked with a rocket launcher. Few ships However, the tuna boats still come here. It's the season for tuna fishing. There are just three military frigates We're on the Indian Ocean a tuna boat The only Frenchman aboard At the age of 52, in an ocean that in the past two years We're setting out with fear in our bellies The sea's huge, immense. How is it possible with just three to control a tuna fleet spread out If we put a military ship every 100 miles, a simple rubber dinghy On deck, the men are preparing Each one is equipped with a GPS buoy The fishing here is miraculously abundant when a cold current from the Horn of Africa. The Somali season, off the east coast of Somalia. The whole East African coastal zone and so it attracts Many Spanish tuna boats That's what happens The most reckless That's what happened a few weeks ago All three then changed course to the east We could go to this area here, where we'd be a long way but we wouldn't catch very much, so it's not worth going there. We might as well stay in the harbor, Since the pirate attacks began, Astutely, he's carefully recorded on his computer. All the boats you can see On the southern part of the Seychelles, the western part between the Seychelles from Kenya to Somalia. In the northern part of the Seychelles, There have been three, Are the boats equipped with weapons? Weapons? All the pirates have weapons on board. Up until now, we haven't seen Do you know what kind of weapons? Kalashnikovs and RPG rocket launchers, Systematically, they fired at the boats. Even if the boat is stopped, Arrival in the high-risk area To get on board the target ships, the pirates use towed out to sea a larger vessel At the stern of the Txori Toki, the crew are setting up a fence an illusory protection from taking over their ship. At sea, even the rules We've never seen anything like it, never. There are no other solutions. We're not respecting the regulations Apart from the merchant ships Every ship sailing now like us At least we know that these small boats, and there are quite a few of them, Seeing us on the radar is impossible. They just can't see us. At least on that score, we're all right. I feel a lot safer at night In the early morning we finally reached the buoy We're here, Forty south, 40 minutes south, 50, 30. Always before we cast, When the chief decides we check that there's nothing Then the chief will say cast, -Ready? -Okay, ready. Ready, everyone ready. Cast away! In just a few minutes, the ocean's clear waters We're at the limit Two hundred miles away, the skiffs' point of departure. On the bridge radar, Usually, it's trawlers, because there are several but you can never be sure. It's coming from here It stopped. They're tuna boats. Look, they're moving quicker, As you can see here, For two hours or more, depending upon the quantity it could be more or less. If there's more fish, The more there is, from pirates. If I see an echo I'm entitled to wonder if it's pirates. Am I going to wait and say, right, it's pirates before I do anything? The Atalanta military You need to wait for confirmation. Maybe we have to wait with our arms folded for them to come on board At this point, the Txori Toki descending to 250 meters Their survival the European anti-piracy mission It is in Djibouti, at the entrance to the Gulf of Aden, that Operation Atalanta For the world economy, these shipping channels Every year, more than 20,000 including the supertankers that transport Operation Atalanta involves entrusted with the protection and just three to survey five times as big as France. This morning and the cargo ship so close together, escorted by warships. We're onboard one of three such surveillance aircraft Its mission is to detect that comes too close In the back of the plane, officers Using radar and sonar, Can you transmit your echoes, mate? Once a target is spotted, the plane but keeping out of range Queue the photo. The photo is immediately analyzed by In just a few seconds, Can you confirm from the photo Zoom in a bit to see if there's a motor. Zoom in some more. Okay, there are three skiffs. Shift the image a bit. Three skiffs, Some barrels. Can you confirm No, no motor, no fishing equipment. We'll classify it as suspect. Suspected of holding pirates, the boat is immediately pursued It will be boarded half an hour later. In the Gulf of Aden, because we had a lot This year we've seen four pirate boats Last year, at about the same period, We can consider that the coalition's After the Somali basin, but we're familiar We know exactly where to find them, Obviously, we can't cover but with the knowledge we have I believe we can still be quite effective. The morning's second mission visually once again. To do this, they need to get close. Just off to the sandbank, there's a sandbank. We can see a lagoon. Then there's a village. Okay, I've got a visual. We're now very close to the coast Here, we can see the details We can count the skiffs and estimate because we can also see fishing vessels. There are boats We have the info we're looking for, and we can use that information. In 2009, more than 90 percent of the pirate attacks In the Indian Ocean, Far from the protection the Txori Toki is still fishing. With its net deep in the water, the boat's been immobilized It's at times like this and danger is not far away. The France Ter apparently They managed to drive them off. They think they were pirates. A ship put down three small craft. We're wondering Who will get captured? We've just heard over by Mogadishu, and we're here, fishing for tuna. A strange enemy indeed, these pirates. Invisible yet omnipresent, who can suddenly appear On deck, the men know and nothing is planned The procedure, if we should see a small fast boat the only thing would be to cut the cables, It's always better to cut It's our lives at stake Certain Spanish ship bosses In just a few months, a dozen or so have left the Indian Ocean In the hold, the fish and the catch is weighed. Almost 180 tons this morning, According to the director they will be 40 percent down Since the start of the Somali season, On board, the sailors are taking it hard. Their pay depends on the catches, and in these conditions, They absolutely Absolutely not. I'm telling you they're waiting They're waiting for a tragedy Before then, we'll get nothing. We get the impression The Spanish government and the public They prefer to send soldiers rather than here by our side. They should come here. They'd understand then, thinking about it all the time. At year end, they'll be counting for their profits. The lack of understanding is total. The Spanish government and the shipowners for the crews for months. I think the owner believes aren't competent If something happened on board, the shipowner not the government. What the government does Above all, The shipowner doesn't want that. He says that the flag is Spanish and that the government The government is against this, For the moment The only thing we do have is a frigate We haven't even seen it Nothing else. I don't understand it either. We have sailed more than 2,000 kilometers Our distant protector, Operation Atalanta, There are two more months As Ronan continues his route his French colleagues We returned to the Seychelles. In France, shipowners Since last July, about 60 marines The French have understood I want one guy to stay in position You follow me. Steven is used to such high-sea missions, It's not France's interest at stake here, These are the weapons that will be used and ours too. What does the crew think They'll get used to them little by little. The uncommon presence of the marines and the slightest space The marines are preparing They will share the same cabin, and the weapons will be kept At the age of 40, Christian is one He runs the 80-meter-long Via Mistral The marine reinforcement unit, It might seem odd to go to work but we haven't found As long as the piracy goes on, Everybody feels safer. We're not authorized but we know that on board is a machine gun ready to fire deterring bursts The defence strategy Military secrets, we're told. We won't explain the organization, We're capable of reacting both short and long distance. We're here primarily as a deterrent. Subsequently, if any piracy action we have the necessary resources We leave the Seychelles behind us. With a veritable arsenal to protect him, Christian can now fish The shipowners confirm they are paying According to our estimates, the cost is around 2.5 million euros The protection enables the French boats Less fish means less turnover. The expenses are the same. You leave with a boat you sail for 50 days or so, Your expenses have gone up in smoke. It's a business like any other. We can no longer stay on the Via Mistral. Our presence is no longer desirable. However, the facts are there. France authorizes soldiers An unorthodox war fought We're picked up by the Txori Argi. On board, the crew has just been attacked. At seven o'clock this morning, we were informed As of eleven o'clock, Heading 312 at five knots. The first signal and it was the only transmission was: &quot;We are under attack. Since then, they have not responded That's it. We knew it was going to happen. What we didn't know was where and when, but we knew it would happen. Everyone knew we were exposed. Ultimately, it's happened. I hope it's only about money. I hope there won't be anyone wounded, We have to understand that on this boat, there were 42 crew members, I believe. Forty-two crew members, Imagine how worried they are right now. I talked with the boss of the Alakrana and he said: &quot;I've got one month to go, one month.&quot; &quot;When I get back to port, &quot;Another 20 days and I'll be at home.&quot; Instead of going home, Kalashnikovs, The atmosphere is grim Santi should be heading back to Spain but first, he has to hand over to Norbert, who can barely imagine what lies ahead. Santi, how are you doing? Good, but we have problems Yes, I heard yesterday. Any more news today? No, there's a frigate not far away to help them. The news yesterday People are saying That's important, We'll see with the office on Monday. The office was saying All the boats must fish No possibility of fishing elsewhere except the French boats With the Alakrana problem, the Spanish The Txori Argi wakes up the next morning Norbert and his captain learn that leaving the Seychelles. The sailors immediately try to learn more We're just about to head out to sea. We want to be sure of the position and if we can head out towards the east. Okay, thanks a lot. They've looked. They've checked the Seychelles perimeter and have only detected one boat Did they check east and southeast? Anything else? Very little to the southeast -They think it's all right. -They think? The anger is mounting. Once again, operation Atalanta The pirate boat has not been located He immediately informed his boss in Spain. We don't know where it is today, We don't know how many they are, I can't go to the north or the northeast, Tito, it's just not possible, I won't risk my life It's too serious. It's Norbert's third day in the harbor. Under pressure from the shipowner, but the news is not good. -That's the position of an attack, there. -That's yesterday's position. It's the same position Is it the same attack or another one? Another one. The information is dated today. October 6th. It happened yesterday evening It's a boat of about ten meters The boat is a bit over ten meters to hold out for a long time at sea. Yes, like the photos of the boats before. We don't trust the owners We have no confidence in them. With all the information we're getting, There's total confusion. There's false, mistaken information. It's not right. There's no organization. Absolutely none. Despite the deadlock, Norbert has no other choice. There's nothing to encourage us to go out, There's a lot of pressure We have to go out. They have to leave Seychelles to the east Future events will prove him right. A week later, two French tuna boats, will be attacked north of the Seychelles, less than 30 kilometers For over a year and a half, the Spanish fishermen in Europe's anti-piracy plans. On the Somme, the French army's flagship Rear Admiral Nielly explains that to protect the tuna boats. Obviously, the military resources when fishing boats are attacked. It's part of their mission but it's not a specific mission Despite the presence of three frigates off the Seychelles, Very probably, in the last few days, with mother skiffs and attack skiffs on the fishermen's route and the fishing zones. We try to locate them, If there are gaps we can lose a mothership or the skiffs. Even with the maritime patrol aircraft. If their search zone they won't come into it. The pirate boat's mobility are overwhelming problems and the pirates know it. What happened is that the watchman saw, around midnight, a first skiff. Between 150 and 200 meters, Very quickly, a first shot was heard. Following this attack, the Somme immediately set off Five pirates were arrested Their boat was taken on board the frigate. It should be known they were aboard skiffs with no fishing nets and no weapons. There's no real tangible proof. Without proof, A few days later, the Somali pirates will be handed over a region in northern Somalia. Who are these men? What do they think in the Gulf of Aden in the Indian Ocean? Who hijacked the Alakrana? We decide to head for Somalia A vast majority of the pirates Almost a million people live in Bossaso Regarded as the hub the city is a focus Wood and spices, The five pirates have been transferred Concerned about maintaining cooperative the Puntland authorities The orders are that you film this prison and that the meeting I'll have the prisoners The five men all come from Mogadishu, They're aged between 20 and 30. The French told us It's not possible we were that far out. Fuel supplies were only to cover 50 miles. As we don't have navigation equipment, but not by as much as they say. We haven't done anything illegal. We're suspected of crimes We're not pirates. When they took our boat, and looked everywhere They found nothing, only fishing gear. They told us we were suspected because of the 400 liters of fuel We haven't been tried. When we came here, You are sentenced to five years in prison because of the fuel. That's all we know. We have no more information. We are very surprised Excuse me, sir. There's something They were tried and then sentenced That has to be said. What the pirates don't say is that they systematically as soon as they see a frigate. Almost 80 Somalis, are incarcerated Forty or so are squeezed into a cell with no water and no electricity. The Puntland authorities Jail time can reach 20 years. It's a way for the local government As day breaks, the administrative capital further south. The French since Somali pirates If you're recognized the families of the pirates held in France and use you as a means of exchange who are currently in French prisons. Why are there so many pirates in Garowe? That's because it's the capital and those Our driver has promised to set up who defy the international military forces We meet him that evening in a hotel. His name is Abdi Razak. He is 28 years old and has been working Abdi claims to have hijacked There's no question He believes we are Canadian. We begin the interview by asking him The French, we will kill them We won't have any scruples about that. If they capture you, they either kill you What do you think about the military ships The military ships but they can't do anything unless On the other hand, if you're caught with weapons, Whenever we see them coming, and avoid any trouble with them. Is it not too dangerous? What danger? It's our choice. Life is tough and dangerous here. We're in Africa, there's no work. The truth is, it's less dangerous In reality, it's an easy choice to make. What other future is there apart from the militia and piracy? What can they hope for in a country Somalia in the 21st century ravaged by clan wars, We hear that the Spanish tuna boat, is at anchor a little further south. Ten days have passed To get closer, we head for Galkayo, a town in central Somalia, and an obligatory stop For the Ukrainian pilots who fly us there, What's it like there? Oh my God! Ask the others. It's really bad. Bandits. Pirates and bandits. When we get there, you come back with us. There's nothing you can do there. Nobody works. They only know how to steal and fire guns. Now you're going to land there. You can see for yourselves. They spend their days with machine guns Nobody works. Apart from stealing and shooting, Why, I don't know. We're coming in, you'll see. We're met at the airport by Ali, a freelance journalist on the journey to the Alakrana. At our first briefing, There have been confrontations and the local Puntland police. It went on for several days. The Puntland police tried to destroy The tradespeople from Galmudug refused. The fighting began like that. It was very violent. The death toll has reached 12. We enter Galkayo. It is here that tensions The town is cut in two. The northern sector and the southern zone to the Hawiye, South Galkayo was the beginning and capital Strolling in the streets Every foreign visitor Twenty or so men armed to the teeth The stifling heat in the hotel only adds The soldiers are tense. Since early morning, a meeting has been taking place and a federal police chief from Mogadishu. For several months now, certain Somali tribes to fight their common enemy, the Shababs. These formidable Islamist soldiers, are on the point Children have been conscripted by force, women raped, They say that When we ask them why they act this way, they say that all means As evening comes, Two grenades explode in the hotel, A dozen guards are wounded. Please, listen to me. Please, listen to me, stop the camera! The next day, Armed men patrol while heavy artillery have taken up position on the main street. The militia seemed far from confident. We have a meeting this morning with Awil Roble, We tell him what we intend to do. We want to go on the Spanish boat. They want to get to the Spanish boat. You'll need to get in touch with one I will see. Awil promises to contact responsible for hijacking the Alakrana, a well-known warlord We first have to reach The pirate groups meet here Night has fallen as we leave Galkayo. The journey over rough, sand-swept roads before we reach Hobyo, one of the newer piracy strongholds. When we get to the beach, Until now, no foreigners have come here. On the horizon, we see the bulky outlines These ships Inside, the crews have been held hostage We're in Hobyo now. The town is largely controlled Recently, they came here in large numbers. They come from several tribes The boats off the shore there They brought them together here. On the beach, 20 or so skiffs are waiting to head out We've seen enough. Awil is afraid our presence here We have to present ourselves The tiny sand-trapped village deprived of almost everything, The pirates enjoy relative peace here and the local youngsters They're docile and have nothing to lose. The village elders meet us They want to explain their problems. The problems are out at sea. The fishing by the big foreign boats They plunder our natural resources Our fishermen, with their simple nets, and so they become increasingly poor. In addition, foreigners sometimes The locals are forced by hunger The consequence is that prices go up. Today, only the pirates can buy things. For the others, it's difficult. Life has become too expensive. Suddenly, Careful of this white man. Please, be quiet. Be careful of these people! -Let us talk. -They'll drop bombs on the towns! Tell him to shut up. Beware, he's a spy, The village chiefs We are no longer welcome. Some talk among themselves and try to bribe our interpreter. In just a few seconds, Later, under tight surveillance Awil suggests we meet a young villager, a member of the security team After two weeks on board, The hostages are kept together It is forbidden to talk to them They're locked up and never get out. No one can get in touch with the boat. Only telephone calls are allowed. Either you give us the ransom we demand No contact will be tolerated and you should know As we talk, we realize that our Canadian cover story Tell him that the French How can I be sure that you're journalists? He could have had other jobs before. He can use his press card What proof do I have of what you say? I have nothing more to say to you. At that precise moment, we realize that we're not going to board but Awil had promised The pirate chief We do not choose the boats we capture. Tell me, Aden, it's said How come you captured You should know that this boat, firstly, It was afterward that it left. Even if this boat wasn't there, many other fishing boats These waters belong to the Horn of Africa. There are warships We also have to put up with pollution. Before any discussion, Can you tell us Are they well? They are all very well, Have the hostages No, they are hostages The team of journalists with me Can we have permission? If these people insist, He says that if you go on the boat, They won't leave the boat. That's for sure. Seeing our disappointment Awil explains why no journalists Every pirate believes that a wanted notice They've become very wary. Every pirate believes they'll immediately become a target. As if a GPS device could locate them They think and their pictures Ten days after leaving Hobyo, we learned that the captain and crew in exchange for a ransom paid by the Spanish government, the highest sum The seizing of the Alakrana The Spanish tuna boats accompanied by mercenaries. The French military operation The French marines In 2009, the Indian Ocean The region has never seen