* Click on the &quot;Settings&quot; icon on the video screen, select &quot;Subtitles&quot;, then select &quot;Automatic Translation&quot; and select your subtitle language! Today before going to work I helped my wife cut vegetables to feed the chickens. Dad, are you chopping vegetables for the chickens? Mom tie your hair for your pretty girl Mom tie your daughter's hair, wait a moment, dad go to work, dad take your daughter to school. Today I went to pick kohlrabi. Is it far to pick kohlrabi? I go pick kohlrabi and go to the market. I will pick up the kids in the afternoon. Beautiful girl, be good to school today. Wait a minute, I'll take you to school. Dad take the pretty girl to school by motorbike Yesterday, dad bought a motorbike for his daughter. Mom finished tying the pretty girl's hair. Honey, I'm afraid I'll be late for school. Please take the kids to school. I'll change my clothes, then go to work and take the kids to school. Get dressed and take your daughter to school. Let me finish chopping these vegetables and we're done. Pretty girl, sit here and wait for me, dad. Let mom cut vegetables for dad to change clothes Let me wash my hands and change my clothes, then I will take my daughter to school. Mom chopped another handful and mixed it with corn to feed the chickens. Beautiful girl wait for dad. Dad, are you done changing? Beautiful girl, study well today. Mom will pick you up this afternoon. Dad take your daughter to school I go to work and take my daughter to school. Pretty girl go to school with dad Pretty girl take your school bag Father takes daughter to school Come on girl, get on the motorbike. Dad take the beautiful girl to school Daughter say goodbye to mom and go to school Let's go, bye mom. Come on dad, start the engine and let's go. You and the baby go safely goodbye I mix corn and vegetables for the chickens to eat. Today I went to the kohlrabi garden to buy kohlrabi to sell at the market. These kohlrabi grown in the greenhouse are delicious. I bought these kohlrabi plants for twenty thousand a kilo. I took it to the market and sold it for thirty thousand dong per kilo of kohlrabi. These are new varieties of kohlrabi that are very tasty and crunchy. t started to get sunny and I started cutting the kohlrabi tubers The kohlrabi here is very delicious The kohlrabi tubers here are very big and crunchy I finished cutting the kohlrabi Now I will cut kohlrabi leaves and bundle them I will bundle 5 bulbs per bunch to make it easier to sell I finished tying the kohlrabi and now put it in a basket to sell Please help me weigh it Please help me carry the basket and weigh these kohlrabi tubers There are thirty pounds of kohlrabi I'll send you kohlrabi money, thank you very much Please help me put the basket on my back Hello, thank you very much Now I will go to the market to sell kohlrabi The market was very crowded Thank you very much kohlrabi is very delicious. Please buy it for me Thank you very much Thank you very much Thank you very much Thank you very much Thank you very much Please help me exchange money Thank you very much Thank you very much Thank you very much Please buy kohlrabi Thank you very much Thank you very much I sold all the kohlrabi and had a bunch left to take home to eat My wife hasn't returned from going to the market yet. I came home from work and bought wood to make a motorbike stand. I finished the motorcycle cargo rack, it fits very well and is beautiful. Dad came home from work early today. Dad, I'm home from school. Yes, dad, hello daughter You go to work so early. Yes, I left early today He went to the wood workshop to buy wood to make a motorbike rack Dad, please hug your daughter You make a beautiful motorbike stand It's very suitable, isn't it? When carrying goods, you should have this rack so that the goods do not fall It's so convenient You made a really nice motorbike stand Dad, let me go play with toys Let me put the things away and cook dinner Where are you going? Let's go cut grass for the goats You go cut the grass, I'll go cook Today I will make bun cha I minced meat to make patties Minced lemongrass Chopped garlic and purple onion I chopped kohlrabi and carrots to make delicious pickles that go with bun cha You get grass for the goats so quickly Goats like to eat this grass, right? Please bring grass for the goats to eat You go feed the goats, I'll cook MSG soup powder ground pepper I made fried rolls. Well, let me fry it I put the pan on so I can fry the rolls Good girl, play well and let mom cook soup powder MSG Cane sugar minced garlic lemonade This kohlrabi salad is very delicious Have you finished frying the spring rolls yet? almost completed Today, eating bun cha with kohlrabi salad was delicious mint basil Let's have dinner Dad, please get some noodles for your daughter to eat Let's have dinner, girl Eating bun cha is very delicious This dipping sauce is so delicious The kohlrabi salad is so delicious Have you sold all your kohlrabi today? I sold it all Really delicious