One of the most powerful people in America seems What's the difference and a guy who's making $100,000 a year? They're both at home watching Netflix, and they're both The disparity between how rich people live and how poor people live in Jeff Yass is a mega billionaire. He's the richest man in Pennsylvania, a smaller percentage We're almost at a point in America that No one's hungry, no one's cold. No one doesn't No one doesn't have some basic health Yass makes his money by squeezing a cut of the stock market, profiting off not only his own speculation, And his methods for saving on his tax bill legally questionable. And he uses the money he saves to exert Since last year, The Moderate PAC has raised just over billionaire and co-founder Yass. Yass is a billionaire investor in And Trump is seeking his support He's one of the highest spending political donors over the past few elections And this year, he's donating even more. He's going to be the highest spending Yeah, a guy is exerting more control over our future So we need to look hard got rich, what Yass wants, People often derisively compare But Jeff Yass wouldn't So we think the analogy between the same kind of decision At SUNY Binghamton, where he went to Yass was really into the math truly And he applyed that to his work Bible was a book called Yass liked the book so much that later he offered the author a job at his firm. Sklansky declined, but noted of Yass, Yass and his friends combined gambling One associate said of the similarity That ignores one major difference A poker hand or roulette spin, like a company or a commodity, It doesn't represent access to medicine the winners and losers are only winning In investing, the wins are tied to losses of people The workers at the company is being bet home, and people In 1987, Yass and some of those same friends and trading and found in Susquehanna Susquehanna itself trading, and options trading is all about How did you guys look to recruit out What were the things, For before you become a trader at So we have a couple of months More than regular trading, options traders can make exponentially more money because they can wager betting the stock will go up or down An options trader buying calls isn't but rather the right to buy that stock So if the stock goes down, If it goes up, they can buy it A put is similar, and a certain price, But they can just continue to hold it and They all have. Playing poker. All options trading is making sure you're betting against someone The same years Susquehanna opened, a newly introduced option, one Yass noticed that puts on that option The same year... They called it Black Monday. By 4 p.m., the biggest plummet since the crash of 29. Susquehanna made millions of dollars Of course, many other people suffered on options trading, and Susquehanna beyond their own trades. Susquehanna also works as a market maker, but this is pretty much true, are Market makers and Jane Street Even if you use Robinhood that means they have more information Control the availability of shares to bring back Yass and his company aren't just The house The house always wins. Play long enough. The house takes a little bit and I really felt Yass and Susquehanna's wealth grew ProPublica reporting By 2005, It's not just Yass. For most of the 2010s, the heads of market making firms The people with most control of the market What a coincidence. And then another financial crisis. 2008. Again, And while Susquehanna did lose money Yass himself lost nearly half a billion. Everything turned out all right for him, losses, he was even able to get a $2,000 All of that public assistance, ending up with Yass is ironic deep seated libertarianism, and most of all, a total aversion Yass only pays 19% in income taxes. That's far less than most Americans, Those other guys So how does he do it? I spoke with Jesse Eisinger My colleagues and I obtained his taxes. We found something profoundly newsworthy. So what he's doing, basically, short term capital gains into long term And long term gains. Are taxed at a much, much lower rate. 15% short term market gains are taxed So this casino will, make two bets And then when it's about to become So the one that's down, That obviously makes no money. But they generate two valuable commodities You can see that that always produces losses for him. For a wealthy person, Losses are actually something into much more lucrative kinds of gains Experts have said to us, Jones tries to claim that he shouldn't because income inequality doesn't exist, The left came up with this idea It's like, what are you talking about? It's just the opposite. and, only capitalism will mop up those last billion people And it's not going to be good intentions. It's going to be people It enlightens what Yass does because he does kind of give it away to politicians dedicated He's one of the two biggest funders an extremist, pro-business interest group. Club for growth backs Anti-worker anti-tax politicians across America. And to be clear, when we say anti-tax, we mean anti-tax for billionaires In their ideal plans, this election cycle. Yass is basically the sole funder group focused on donating to Democrats, But let's look closer. They're focused on spending in primaries, and a centrist candidate They focused on attacking representative who has a 100% Pro-worker Summer Lee has a different agenda The defunding the police, attacking She was the only representative to vote against a Republican led debt in a way that made it easier cut corporate environmental regulations, income people to get food. She even voted against raising the debt ceiling so she can become a media And his donations get even more granular Yass hates public schools. He's obsessed with school choice. That's the corporatist idea parents would be given vouchers that they could use He thinks public schools are a huge waste exorbitant public school teacher salaries Instilling healthy with benefits That, by the way, is about 0.001% This would just be funneling money with limited enrollments, Gas and his wife are financially tied too, salary, that number he mentioned includes Wealth would be transferred and rich kids It's so blatantly corrupt that even There's an online petition. A couple of Bart parents started They take our funding, from wealthy donors with ulterior motive. The weird cash swirling around. They'll correct me when it gets out. Oh, you know, could count on attending Abbott Yeah, Abbott Pretty sure. So that is directly about. Yes. And we haven't even gotten A lot of people on TikTok that love it. There are a lot of users. There's a lot of good in ByteDance, The TikTok ban was originally changed his mind after a meeting with, God bless you. Yeah, says companies shouldn't be involved But yes is Susquehanna And Susquehanna itself You know says. One is living almost the same life, and poor people have jobs they don't like. But another difference is that only the rich can game If you want to support more journalism please don't forget to like and subscribe. Send this video to your friends and if there's something throw it in the comments