Welcome to Katastrofa La Cocina. I am Rosy. Today I will prepare Bazlama . Bazlama is a turkish flatbread, that can be I will make in the stove top. Also, as main ingredient we have Yogurt. Yogurt make the bread very soft and fluffy. Is a bread that puff up while heat, creating But better, let's see the recipe. Stay with me. First thing to do is to prepare yeast mixture. Take 3 Tbsp of the 500 gr of AP Flour Do not forget you can also find Mix that 3 Tbsp of Flour Add 150 ml of Warm Water. Start mixing. Add 12 gr or 1 level Tbsp of Sugar. Keep mixing. Let to rest until form This can go from 15 to 30 minutes. I leave it only 15 minutes. The next is to mix the remaining flour While I am doing this, I would like to You can also activate the Bell, Continuing with the recipe, make a We will pour the wet ingredients. Start It has too much foam in surface, and, Here I have 220 gr of Plain Yogurt. Add 3 to 4 Tbsp or just the half. Mix the Wet ingredients. Then, incorporate the flour. Pour the remaining yogurt, little by little. Instead of yogurt you can also use milk. Your dough should feel somewhat If still feels dry, then add little bit Remember that not all flour are same, so This can also happen because of the yogurt. But, continuing with the recipe, I am using Light Olive Oil. Mix in the dough. Remove from bowl. Place in a clean and dry surface. As you can see, is a dough that But, you can also knead by times. You can cover the dough and let After 15 minutes, knead from Repeat same process one more time. Cover for 15 minutes your dough. And, knead from 5 to 10 minutes more. I will continue kneading in this moment. Or, gently hit against the table Kneading process can take Or, until your dough is soft, elastic When dough is ready, shape a ball. Brush a bit of oil in the bowl. Put dough inside. Brush also little bit of oil, Cover and let to rest until This will depend of the weather. Mine was ready after 1 hour and If is hot where you are leaving will take Take from bowl and fold to remove Cut the dough in 4 to 8 portions. I will cut in 8 portions of similar size. You can weigh them. Each portion If you want to make a bigger flatbread Take a portion and slightly press. Fold and shape a ball as showng in video. Roll it. Place them in a floured surface. When all are ready, cover them You can also brush a bit of oil Let them rest from 10 to 15 minutes, 3 minutes before you start to ...I recommend you to put the pan Sprinkle flour in a clean and dry surface, Take one portion and place the dry side Using a floured rolling pin, evenly 2 to 3 mm of thickness. Check to not stick to the table. Also, becareful to not broke or fold If this happens, your bread Keep shaping the circle. If your dough is not stretching ...cover and let to rest for about 5 min. After 5 minutes, stretch again For me, is perfect like this. I made Place them in a floured surface. Cover with a damp cloth and let to rest When pan is hot, reduce to Place the dough in the pan. When start to appear bubbles With one soft spatula or a cloth, Flip again. And after some secons, you will notice Process to make this bread is While one is in Pan. you are If neaded, flip again to brown a bit more. Then, remove. Place them in a cloth. Optionally, you can brush bit of Sprinkle Chili flakes. And, Coriander or Parsley. Fresh or dry. Keep them covered. And, as I told you before you can make Here, while flip I broke a bit my You can cover the hole with the spatula This can also happen if That's why I set temperature And, try to use a Pan with a If you use a pan with a thin bottom, your I will continue decorating, brushing Chili flakes. Coriander or Parsley. As simple as that your Bazlama or Is a very soft, fluffy and delicious bread. You can pair with Hummus. I will leave the recipe of Hummus I will show you how I love to I like to fill with meat or falafel. Salad and Yogurt sauce. Also I use like pizza base. These two ways will be delicious. I hope you like how I prepare this If is like this, do not forget See you in the next video. See you.