Reviewer: Denise RQ War is a nightmare. War is awful. It is indifferent, War is hell. But war is also an incredible teacher, a brutal teacher. And it teaches you lessons In war, you are forced to see humanity at its absolute worst, and you are also blessed to see humanity War teaches you about And it teaches you about the preciousness and the fragility of human life. And in that fragility, war teaches you about death. But war also teaches you about brotherhood, and honor, and humility, and leadership. And unfortunately, war teaches you And for me, one of the most impactful lessons was in the spring of 2006 in the city of Ramadi, Iraq, which at the time, where brutal and determined terrorists with torture and rape and murder. It was in one neighborhood of that city during an operation when all hell broke loose. We had multiple units out We had friendly Iraqi soldiers, we had US Army soldiers and US Marines, along with small elements of my SEAL team. And then the fog of war rolled in with its confusion, and chaos, and mayhem, and with its gunfire, and enemy attacks, and screaming men, and blood, and death; and in that fog of war, through a series of mistakes, and poor judgment, and Murphy's law, a horrendous fire fight broke out. But this fire fight wasn't between us and the enemy; this fire fight, tragically, was between us and us, friendly forces against friendly forces; fratricide - the mortal sin of combat and the most horrific part of war. And when it was over, one friendly Iraqi soldier was dead, one of my men was wounded, the rest of my SEALs were badly shaken, and it was only through a miracle And it was reported up the chain That we had fought, and wounded, And when we got back to base, There was a message waiting for me and it said, &quot;Shut down all operations.&quot; It said that the commanding officer, the master chief, were inbound to my location. And they told me to prepare exactly what had happened on the operation Now, I knew what this meant. It meant that somebody had to pay. It meant that somebody It meant that somebody had to get fired So, I began to prepare my debrief. And in it, I detailed every mistake And I pointed out every failure in the planning, and the preparation, and I pointed out There was plenty of blame to go around. There were so many people But something wasn't right. For some reason, on who was at fault and who specifically I should blame for And I sat, and I went over it again and again, And then, when I was about ten minutes that answer came, and it hit me like a slap in the face. And I realized that there was only one person only one person to blame for and only one person to blame for And I knew exactly who that person was. And with that knowledge, with my commanding officer and the master chief, were sitting there waiting for me, including my SEAL who had been wounded, who was sitting in the back of the room with his head and his face And I stood up before them, &quot;Who's fault was this?&quot; One of my SEALs raised his hand. And he said, &quot;It was my fault. I didn't keep control of And they left their designated sector, and that was the root And I said, &quot;No, it wasn't your fault.&quot; And then another SEAL raised his hand I didn't pass our location so no one knew what building we were in, It was my fault.&quot; And I said, &quot;No, it wasn't And then another SEAL &quot;Boss, this was my fault. I didn't properly identify my target, and I shot and killed This was my fault.&quot; And I said, &quot;No, this wasn't And it wasn't yours, or yours, or yours,&quot; I said as I pointed to the rest And then I told them that there was only one person There was only one person to blame. And that person was me. I am the commander, I am the senior man on the battlefield, and I am responsible for everything. And then I went on to explain to them some new tactics, that we were going to implement to ensure that this kind of travesty And I will tell you something: it hurt. It hurt my ego. It hurt my pride to take the blame. But I also knew, I knew that to maintain my integrity I had to take responsibility. And in order to do that, I had to control my ego And you know what? I didn't get fired. In fact, my commanding officer, who had expected excuses when I took responsibility, he now trusted me even more. And my men didn't lose respect for me. Instead, they realized that I would never shirk responsibility, and I would never pass that heavy burden of command And you know what? They had the same attitude. Unlike a team where no one and therefore, the problems with us, everyone took ownership everyone took ownership of the problems. And when a team the problems get solved. And that is true on the battlefield, it is true in business, So I say, take ownership; take extreme ownership. Don't make excuses, don't blame any other person Get control of your ego. Don't hide your delicate pride Take ownership the good and the bad. Take ownership of your mistakes, take ownership of your problems, and then take ownership of the solutions Take ownership of your mission. Take ownership of your job, and take ownership of your life. And lead. Lead. Lead yourself, and your team, lead them all to victory. Thank you. (Applause)