Imagine a young bosmer fantasizing about the far He consumed every shred of information But it wasn't until Telvanni tower that he With decades of research, going he stepped off the boat, entering the And... he realized it was a bit No amount of book learning It was like he'd been All the skills he had learned, through in Valenwood, But he's nothing A single morsel of He pulled himself off the ground, He would best these lands. Roleplay is fun and all, but I can't What we're doing here is simple. Everything, attributes Except willpower, which starts at 1, ground the entire time. Everything I just said before There's the typical way Do the main quest, get Wraithguard, There's the back path, where you kill then you bonk the heart. Hooray you win. Then there's the less interesting option healing through the damage Hooray you win. But there's another option. It takes more time, but it's a path that I of you haven't either. Basically, instead of becoming Nerevarine fifth trials of the prophecy, if you can reputation with the people of Vvardenfell, and gives you Wraithguard. You can skip the Hortator But getting 50 reputation It requires a fair amount If you watched my &quot;All My then you'd understand that every and you need 30 and higher levels beyond So it's going to take some However, unlike that other video, attributes and They're just going Our job is to fight through Vvardenfell, and prove ourselves We may be an outlander, but We faded in from black to a I wonder what that implies. That's your operating system? Well, it was either this the other one, and that one you breathe autonomously. I got another Into The AM. It's a clothing company made up of as a way to express yourself. Hoodies, bomber jackets, joggers, Let me show you this one. *Sounds of fighting Friggin'-- Why are the buttons *More struggling* Right-handed... What the...? *Even more struggling* You need help? I did it. The Tree of Life. That unbroken bond of heredity Well, 3.7 billion years, Scientists? Those nerds? On this channel, we usually end up getting so this feels kind Also, it's got pretty colors. But if this isn't your liking, and the Don't know why it wouldn't be. I mean, it glows in the dark, Worry not, because Into The AM Maybe an occult Got a very Elder Scrolls That top book actually looks Perhaps that's a Ah, we tied it together. Whatever you decide, you can get or in the pinned comment. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm mOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO Our first goal was getting at least strength attributes. Zero strength means zero carry I can't wear Unsurprisingly, skills level up pretty Getting to 10 athletics while was going to be pretty easy. But as I ran down the road toward Balmora, With zero carry capacity, I obviously With zero hand-to-hand, zero agility, assuming my hit But I had taken the warrior sign grants is added into after all the stat and I should have had at least a 10% this worm was My assumption was that having zero but I think it's more just had an evasion It did smack me around a bit, leveling my so that fight So as we return to Sedya Neen, we take a until we get our first level. 5 to strength, 5 to speed, Okay, I'm probably going to regret doing Oh, just waits for an hour. It defaults to an hour. Oop. With our muscles now rippling, wait until midnight to steal Fargoth's that I'll constantly forget to use, all-important hat, along Those'll be useful. Gold shouldn't be too I won't be using the creature The biggest hurdle we'll be facing isn't attributes up to level 30. It's not so difficult for attributes like trained by running and jumping. Intelligence might not be but willpower is gonna be rough. Restoration, alteration, mysticism, and and even a low-cost training spell at best. Pay for training, With my skill level so low, And you'd be right, but you can't train So we'll need to be a little The most important thing With how inaccurate my punches were, Ra'virr's devil weapons. What a surprise. They're great even The devil spear summons a the equivalent of a Daedric spear My accuracy will still be Before we start leveling the perfect time to take It boosts your highest attribute by 20 But attributes cannot go negative, So drinking from it when some of my attributes I know I was just bemoaning the difficulty but I actually think using the bitter cup We start with 20 health, and every time we endurance level as HP, With zero endurance, we're The sooner we get a couple We're going to be getting at least 20 so I don't want to squander The bitter cup is in Ald Redaynia, in So why am I here Well I took sneak as a major skill, easy way to level it up, if there came a time Pemenie, the NPC you get is wearing the boots So she's speedy, but also blind. An NPC's ability to detect is a lot like the accuracy The NPC in question has a detection If your sneak roll overcomes the NPC's This check is rolled over and over again There are other aspects, like distance What matters is is increased by the magnitude and the NPC's detection chance is That is to say, with 100% So we win every sneak check, getting XP All this to say, we could sneak That's a no-go. Ah! *laughing* Why can't I rest? *mimicking attacking sound* Another level. Not as optimal this Strength, agility, With a few endurance levels, You heal for one-tenth of It takes a few days with only 3 With some booze in our backpack, to make endurance my highest attribute, venture north to Ald Redaynia. Can I make this jump? I don't think I can. *laughing* I don't know why I thought I We'll try from Khuul. Normally, landing in the Just kill the slaughterfish But that only works if you're decently couple fish bites. What we need to do is aim ourselves just falling damage, but close enough to the land Aww... We didn't land exactly so we're gonna fending off mud crabs And then there's I'm gonna have to sneak around. *Whispering* Shh, be quiet. Shh. Hold on. Wait. Goddammit. I'm stuck. Hold on. Here we go. We're being very We're getting Oh, fuck. And the basement. What ended up working was luring stuck swimming around slowly, unable to time to run past them and grab the But how do we get away? Can't jump through the No, I can't fit. That's stupid. I'm a tiny little Oh, the hat's too tall. Serpentine. Serpentine. As much as I'd love to get the I have no delusions about Even if it was one-on-one and there downstairs waiting to rip me Or at least impractical. No, I came here for the We won't drink from We'll steal it and figure out the attribute What the hell are you aiming at? Nyeh! Okay, hold on. Th-There's skeletons So I gotta quickly... Get out of here! *laughing* I should have brought teleports. So now that we're safe, we can drop the endurance to 13, and drink, boosting and lowering my intelligence How dreadful. We'll skip ahead a bit. To summarize, I had to use my last Ikarian of Vvardenfell, and I died Why didn't I try using Beast Tongue I did try, but magic But with all that settled, it's How will we get 30 intelligence and 30 There are plenty of useful rewards hidden importantly, we've got 14 points of reputation My first thought was to steal some then buy a bunch of saltrice and dice are in my favor. With level 1 luck, I should technically brew a potion, but after processing over alchemy level, it probably Unlike my attributes at level 1 video, not but I'm not opposed to using fortify I don't want to go I could down hundreds of Sujamma but that's not fun. But a sip here or there, like when That's totally fine. The temple does say, one glass of shein a I'm sure the data We want the Mentor's Ring. 10 points of intelligence and willpower as Seyda Neen in the Super easy to get to. The problem is, the urn it's kept in is healing ring, I can't A probe would have helped, assuming it's I doubt it. Maybe a telekinesis spell would Rather than continuing this Fought a bunch of college, am I right? And returned to Balmora, ingredients I could College am I right? You get alchemy experience if you eat the food In Balmora, we can buy some skill training joining, and because my skills are It seems to cost 12-ish with a minimum value Of course, I can't buy a ton of and my attributes covering many That's a level 2 alchemy, which means points into intelligence, but we can, at the very least, If telekinesis and probes won't help stock up on some health potions. Why avoid the damage, Another level. I'm not going to point but I will when something This level, we're taking strength, It may not be much, but we can enchant, and conjuration, opening up more intelligence Training spells are so I made a telekinesis We have a 0% chance to cast it, it's because we lack This sounds a bit frenetic and I went into this challenge without a real plan, I'm trying my best to some kind of a to follow my on-stream I literally say what the and I'm still not sure why The inner machinations Because we leveled up, when we return full of skeletons. My arch-nenemy. My arch-enemy. Arch-nemesis. I hate them. Bonewalkers have taken Not ideal. Rather than fighting through all the attacks, grab the ring from the urn, and quickly teleport out with our We did it. The attribute boost from this ring won't but it will give us better chances A very small increase to the spell Now what? That teleport sent us to Pelagiad, which is Let's say we stop by and Not only will skill books break us out of skills, but they sell Clever me, I'll steal a bunch of books Jobasha in the foreign quarter and then The way Morrowind handles If you steal, say, Nalcarya of you sell to her will be Even if it's a diamond you somewhere far away from But I do love that you to any merchant that is The fact that it's How would they know it's stolen? Oblivion has easy access to fences after And Skyrim has a perk that lets But Skyrim's Speech Tree is about so no one's ever seen the perk. No one's ever used it. Another couple books we can steal are We'll need the former later for the Mage's our first Alteration Level, a Willpower Willpower Levels. Now I feel like I can hold my My Spear Level is not 0 anymore, and I'm not stuck in a tomb So we'll sleep for a bit until we die a few times, and Some of it we'll wear, Tanar Llervi while I spent a good couple Mysticism Level, so I Successfully casting spells with very unlikely, but at least it doesn't take To alleviate my low Strength and Agility and Agility Governed Skills, let's There are some Dreamers in here but Dagoth Gares He doesn't spawn until the main quests to the final room without worrying about In this room are the Fists of Randagulf, fortify Strength and Nope. Stay away. There's also Glass Boots Oh, my greed. Hello, Van. Welcome to the stream. Ahh! Eh, hold on, wait. *Ringing the bells* Okay. Shit. There's also a set Could sell them, but I think Next stop, Ebernanit, and I took the long I guess levitating over the mountains Fortunately, the Slaughterfish were and even all the scamps and Dark nightmarishly difficult. And before you I have no fatigue. It's hurting my accuracy. I know. I know. But here's the thing. All having full fatigue would do for But combat wouldn't end fast enough to spend to get gold Not yet, at least. Also, my spear My agility is about level 30, With full fatigue, my plus 10 points from With no fatigue, it's So 33% versus 48%. That is to say, shit regardless. Miss two-thirds of the time It's fine. So why are we here? Well, there are 27 items in the each corresponding Each of these items has a constant fortify A bit more fortification to but that's not what Instead, it's this dark elf He's the one I'm trying He's got the Ring of which fortifies your Five points may not seem like much, double your skill level. So those extra five Took a while, but we got him. And with a few more spell Two more points to willpower. Now we can reliably cast alteration willpower attribute points without So we could get 10 alteration levels, allocate five points to I could have gotten more sanguine but right now I'm just really focused on can buy several levels worth of training willpower attribute points without It's reputation time. There are more ways to get reputation That's where a lot of it is. But there's 22 points of reputation out half of what we need. So we'll get started with that. We'll get some levels while doing these more interesting than sitting around in waterwalking on ourselves We'd have to do these quests Our first job is investigating a murder, With high enough disposition, one of will tell us about the seven killings with slit throats, showing The culprit didn't even take Finally, he says only ordinators so he can't hire nudge-nudge-wink-wink, you know. Five of the victims were *gasp* and two were ordinators, neither of whom so much This must mean the culprit is either Although there were no witnesses to the threatened by a Dunmer The outlander teleported to safety, A Dunmer woman with a dagger, That's all we've got to go on. Asking around in Vivec's foreign quarter happenings down in the Not long into our journey in the sewers do we find the true She must be in cahoots with the Her weapon has an But we overcome her foul she was not only an wielding a Dagoth dagger, A prophet. What intrigue. Returning to Elam Andas, An ordinator helm and cuirass, which ordinators will attack me on sight, a belt that grants 10 points of willpower, shield for 30 seconds. I'll take the belt. With that quest complete, we've 49 more to go. Trust me, it'll start Our next quest takes us to Fort Larrius Varro regales us with a bringing criminals to justice, but because their friends have deep This soldier, tired of these bad people those bad people stopped Will no one rid me of Larrius wants us Five members of the Cammona Tong, Morrowind's We can find these five bad If only House Hlaalu knew committing crime Surely if they knew they'd Because attacking one of them would make employ the tried and true method of at which point we can not but can avoid all Oh, I see they aren't 3-on-1. Those scoundrels. You'd think gang members would carry actual I'm not a gang There's also a woman The bartender, bless his heart, isn't part I'll leave the body's hairframe As a reward, we get the Ring of Surroundings, and one point of reputation. The ring gives 20-30 points The book gets us one level to speechcraft, In Tel Vos, Turedas establishing trade with the If we can learn what the Ashlanders By raising the disposition of any of the that they could use That way, their hunters can heal It's a quick quest, but it's worth Turedas even gives us There's a ghost haunting the Gateway a Dunmer with the strangely Altmer Sadrith Mora's resident nerds might around the Telvanni Council Hall, found no evidence Because the ghost is easily banished conjuration expert is involved. Sadrith Mora actually has two flavors Mages' Guild and are told Uleni When confronted, she calls I assume a friendly and says she only played this brought her up before the Magistrate hospitality papers. She'll end the haunting if we give When we do, we earn another point of choice between three rings. A warrior ring, a mage The thief ring fortifies agility, for 30 seconds, There's a guy in Ald-ruhn who bought paying him 120 but failed to pay the 120 septim so Llether would like us to track down payment of 120 gold. This is how Llether worded it. The shoes, I'm guessing, Sarandas paid half at first, But Llether switched from drakes to so who the hell If we bring a bottle of Cyrodiilic he'll admit to us that he squandered He asks that we return all the items he wardrobe of clothes and jewelry. Checking my stat page, it was all we had to do to but I feel like I should at least Y'know? I tried bringing Bivale Teneran her dismissive of us, so How sad. Palansour is a dungeon outside of dilapidated kwama mine, the perfect But instead, we find and Morrowind's most Ogrim usually don't start spawning pretty high level, so you might But this one is a static spawn. It's always an ogrim. I think this place is supposed Regardless, they don't look They're just so cartoonish looking, I think it's the chin. Their Elder Scrolls Online incarnation but we didn't come here to Instead, we're here to free this *gasp* Is that Chipmunk? Oh my god, it's Chipmunk, Yay! We'll get you out of there, man. Inwald is a sorcerer, and it It killed all his companions, and the They also made him wear Can you change...with Can you ch--Can you change Well no, Chipmunk wouldn't This can't be him. By giving him a rising force potion, this dungeon, and by refusing to reward, we'll earn *giggling* Mat. It is a secret ring... but you must find it first. It is a ring that can tear worlds asunder You must venture forth Mat. There you'll find the ring. The vile sorcerer in the Stephen, is going to...do anything You can get supplies Walmart. Why am I in here? Why am I inside Mat? Level 10. And look at all Boy howdy. 5 to willpower, 4 to There are quite a few reputation points we We said we wanted to avoid the but we'll still need to to the point where getting Moon and Star from But there's actually 15 reputation points after completing the Antabolis Informant puzzle box for Hasphat After this quest, you'll notice when about sleepers waking up Well it turns out you can free So we'll swing by Arkngthand, kill the various smugglers It's pretty easy It's a weak level 10 admittedly, but Once we hand over the puzzle box, we across Vvardenfell. It's pretty simple. Kill the high-ranking member of the 6th with the now-freed former dreamer, Fortunately, there are only four Some of them are Our first target is Dagoth Hlevul, who's in a cave called Assemanu. That alteration training Or feety, since I'm You don't have to deal with a fish That's a weird-ass fish. What a strange This dungeon is full of Corpus monsters as a surprise. But there's also a Environmental storytelling. Vivec was likely aware of this base but the ordinators seem Unless he's just sleeping. I won't wake him. The Ash slaves are They've got something like 100 agility, Their lightning is strong too, so spells until they Their melee attacks If I had to rank enemies by difficulty, but not above Archer Skeletons. It could just be that you encounter Archer say, Ash Vampires. But by the time you run into strong so Ash Vampires don't feel The shrine is locked My alteration level certainly isn't in a open spell, and I But there is a key I missed. There's a second napping ordinator with exactly what we need I've come to learn that most locked doors into a new cell, have a You just gotta find it. And here is Dagoth's Hlevul. Squid faces are up there with but like the Ash slaves, you just And then they're simple. The biggest issue Or their poison-balls. They have a wide area of effect, which is pretty much where Once we kill them, we're free to ransack corpus flesh. Oh, and we can go to each of the dreamers reputation for Neldris Llervu in Suran, who may be to bring to the Ashkhan of the Zainab Huh. There are actually a lot of Llervus Nine in total. They even have Maybe they're not actually related and Daynasa Telandas at Nelmil Hler in the Redoran Canton of priest, Fedris Hler? I dunno. Vivyne Andrano in Eralane Hledas... Hl-Hle--? Iceberg Hledas in Relur Faryon in And lastly, Alvura Othrenim With those seven freed, we're But there are eight more Hassour is a dungeon situated south of running beneath the bridge Our target is Dagoth this place is full of Ash slaves are, of These optional Sixth I think the Fourth and Fifth Trials would and the Ashlanders sent you off to these just, y'know, bribing The Urshilaku ask a lot of you, related to House Dagoth. Perhaps the other houses don't much they've been pestering all of 4, 5, 6, 700 years? Been a while. Dagoth Fovon is just a Mmm, more tasty corpus meat. Understand I'm eating the alchemical Very low. The chance of me successfully brewing eat potentially poisonous, sometimes little bit of XP. The dreamers freed with the Rarayn Radarys, found Llandras Belaal, Dralas Gilu in Pelagiad, and finally Drarayne Girith, proprietor That's 4 more South of Gnisis is another It's filled with what you'd expect, faceless and noodlesnooty. With Dagoth Draven group of dreamers Assi Serimilk in Maar Gan, Endris Dilmyn in Khuul, and Vireveri Darethran One dreamer remains, but this one is not of a squid face, and Instead, if we enter Hanarai and speak with her, With her death, Dravasa Andrethi, his haze, granting us the 15th and final sleepers, bringing We need 29 more That may sound like a lot, but we'll end quest we'll eventually have to do 14 of those points are locked up in intelligence and 30 willpower. Because we were getting some levels during intelligence and willpower to the mid training in our low-level skills that For instance, security for intelligence, And when I want to level up immediately, I meat from Ajira and make 10 alchemy The details don't matter a ton. I bought training, I cast some Simple. We finally have the attributes I also started putting some points I was kind of sick of people being I-I-It's not gonna work. You need like 70 personality before Our first point of from the guild comes We get her some mushrooms, help her play get her a bowl. All trivial stuff, none But when her reports are stolen and Vvardenfell thinks I'm She'll have more reputation to offer Edwinna Elbert is sitting on several got those coveted I've done this series of quests many We bring her the fetch a potion from and head off to Vivec to Oh, did I already Uh-oh. Umm.... Shit. So it's time to hunt down Does Galbedir have it? Nope. Tanar Llervi? Uh-uh. I did get a bounty some time Sleeping in the Mage's Guild And I got caught The Chimarvamidium was a stolen item, so If I paid the bounty off in Balmora, then my stuff should be in But this NPC is Oh no, my presence I must defend myself against Dammit. Maybe I paid the bounty in Vivec Ah, it is here. Excellent. Just gotta figure out how to steal I could self-defense this guy too, but some of those enchanted Thief Ring for a bit of agility, Ring Took a few tries, but book and the Grand So we bring the book to Edwinna, she wants us to check There's a scamp scampin' up free Huleen's apprentice from the and return to Edwinna for the quest that Returning the Chimarvamidium. You better appreciate I went through a lot After I stole it. Along with the reputation, we also Unlimited teleports to Wonderful. Like Ajira, she'll have more With how much training I've been of leveling my willpower, We'll use alchemy as our high skill, buying ingredients from Ajira, and we'll use It doesn't matter. Skink-in-Tree's-Shade has His first two quests don't give any Escort &quot;Temenyemenwe&quot; [sic: Tenyemenwe] from Muriel's and get him a copy of which we can buy His third quest He wants to arrange a meeting with a He suggests speaking Sinnammu isn't willing to meet with Minabibi, in order to show And she's currently in the Favel We gotta help her put it to rest, by extent a ghost may be killed. Once the ghost is double dead, Skink, which earns us Next, he wants us to kill a former Mage's We can find her in Shal, You can tell there's a mage in this cave Stop running! It's just a spear spawned from This quest didn't award any Following the pattern that Ajira and give us those Ranis Athrys has some jobs for us, But some do, so Collect Manwe's guild dues. Convince ex-Telvani Llarar Stop Only-He-Stands-There from And finally, get If we escort him to Pelagiad from But escort quests suck, so... Is there a lore reason why the Argonians Oblivion onward, So one reason is that Bethesda I think...I think dinosaurs Where they were on their front two Or something. It's more like bird feet. So it looks like they have It's just that That's an ankle. That's the knee. They look like they have backwards That's an ankle. Their knees are up here. They always tell me to accept the It's always just files. Itty bitty thigh. Long lower leg. Long shins. Huge feet. And there's their toes. That-That's typically A lot of birds are like that. I don't know why. And this is kind of what Her first reputation-rewarding with the necromancer Regardless of the choices we make during we kill her, we still Ranis' final task is By speaking to the archmage in Vivec, credentials, which clearly since Councilor Ocato's This satisfies Ranis, and we After doing a bit more alchemy with we make it to level 19 with Almost what you'd have Now a warlock, we can return to Ajira The first is fetching the Staff And where do you keep a cosmic Assu. There's scalies in Assu! Daedroth don't have a lot of because they don't cast very many spells But like the squid faces, the spells so they're not the The best approach I the attacks rather than For the fight against Dreveni herself, because I have some scrolls, so The Staff of Magnus is super valuable and but it's actually got a pretty 25 to 50 points of restore one point of That's not bad. I'm For another point of reputation, from Vindamea Drethan in Before heading out into the wilds, I getting the last bit need to continue ranking and getting 30 agility, opening up the I also tried ranking up to wizard, but Either buy it for 5k or liberate one from She's in Sud. We'll think about what we'll See, what'd I tell ya? Crystals means Her Atronachs are and made several Restore Her Daedric Mercenaries are no longer Literally, it's saltrice, It's a straight-up smoothie. We show Ajira the ring, and she quickly off the edge of the desk, earning I have an idea for some First, we'll sell some of these artifacts and then we'll go to Sud to get a mage's Ah, crystals. We're in the right place. Here's Anime. The staff isn't all that great, but it is She's got a glass dagger, too. That's another thing to sell. With staff in hand, we return to Ranis, And we do. But she notices our wizard's staff as well, With this rank, Skink has He would like us to capture the nearest being He even gives us scrolls We've killed noodlesnoots Skink doesn't give any reputation He wants another book on There are a few places to find We can't easily get into the and Galom Daeus is super out Instead, we'll go to It's not the most but it is full of skill In fact, while we're we can kill the optional They're light, and And Dagoth Tureynul has We read all the skill books, get a level Back in Sadrith Mora, we and are given Skink's What arcane enchantments None, but it's worth After doing a bit more training and if we return to Skink, letter from Chancellor This is the letter that will force the And by doing it peacefully, But there's a couple I don't know if you could do other Edwinna Elbert wants She tells us to go to Arkngthunch-Sturdumz steal one from this chest in We go to Nchuleftingth to get a but the report is with He's dead. But the report's right here. Bringing it to Edwinna earns We then get her scarab Ahh! Oh my god. And finally, Dwemer airship plans from reputation we can But that's only 11 out of 12 of the points The final one comes from Archmage Trebonius Find out what By collecting 3 books, Hanging Gardens The Egg of Time from Mzuleft, and all of which I totally remembered places and definitely to each of the ruins and bringing them to He can decipher their contents using since it's written in both Baladas doesn't have The Dwemer used Kagrenac's's tools and the a new god. The books also mention how the Here's a little bit of my The elves, being descendants of the Ehlnofey, Perhaps Kagrenac's didn't intend to affect but it was an Tonal manipulation may be an When you manipulate the earth bones to bore perhaps you aren't manipulating the Perhaps you're manipulating reforming it as a Was Kagrenac's trying to become a god heart of Lorkhan, but didn't foresee much like the earth bones? My speculation is no more concrete and I hope it stays that way. Regardless, Trebonius is earning us that one Now we can hand over Ocato's letter, archmage, and earning But by going about this peacefully, That Necromancer's We're at 35 reputation now. As I've already said, there's 11 points quest we have to do. You get 5 just for entering the Cavern of so really we just How can we get those? Become an assassin, Morrowind's Tucked away in the arena canton of Vivec, storage area, is the Why they're so secretive It's not like they're Legitimate writs of execution It keeps the Keeps them from We get a point of reputation every time have to perform Our initiation kill He's in the Elven Nations Corner What's great about the Morag Tong is I and then have it erased completely by My paperwork is all I interpret it as the person who So technically, it's still a crime, Eno Hlaalu has two Odashah Yasalmibaal The former is in The latter is in the To make getting around easier, Sadrith Mora, we'll go back to Elbert points of feather and It costs 24k. But I can get that cash back by selling those various Dagoth Look at that jump. But how will we Well, with all the alteration training fall spell has a pretty If it fails before I land, To avoid doing more than necessary, assassinations for the Morag Tong, where we need 50 reputation. Then we'll clean things How apropos. Although our skills and attributes character, we are kitted out in pretty to cause a lot of problems. We already got the Dwemer Puzzle Box getting a skull for Sharn. Trivial. That's worth one reputation. Next is speaking to the Mehra Milo, Huleeya, And that's another Let's jump ahead He didn't ask for it yet, but Sul-Matuul Kogoruhn, so we'll hop on the Corprus Weepings, and the Shadow Shield, all while, of course, collecting some of Like this guy's Ebony Sword Or this Ash Vampire's... His belt. Or this Ash Vampire's belt. Since we're in the area, we gotta go to the Get the bow. The Bonebiter Bow of Sul-Senipul, father of Sul-Matuul, Ashkhan Then there's some housekeeping. Going back to Caius, talking to Hassour Gotta check off I do wonder what Hassour means. Remember when we It was a cavern, Now we can officially meet with Sul-Matuul, &quot;Dude, how'd you know?&quot; And I'm all like, &quot;because you're a &quot;You honor me, outlander.&quot; And I leave to return to Caius. We return to Ilunibi because And we gotta kill him. But upon his death, he Ooh! Curing it is easy. We just gotta leap across the But I wanna sidetrack During this whole run, I've It's faster than running. As a result, my acrobatics High enough that I enchantment might be Here's what we're gonna do. First, make a 100 The cast chance will Then we head to Dagon Fel and Daedric Ruin of Onnissiralis. Within Onnissiralis are a bunch of... And if you've played even five minutes cultists are always the The only difference is their We clear out the I don't have enough magicka. Okay, so we cast some spells for a bit, intelligence so our enough magicka so we When it finally casts the Adamantium Helm of Tohan, a medium armor helmet with By soul trapping a golden saint, you could buy from Folms Mirel in rank, but we're the archmage so You could place a constant effect In our case, fortify acrobatics Also, if we're quick enough, we can loot The enchantment we want to make is pretty unreasonable amount of expensive Run so long that my voice We're almost done. We can sell a bunch of our weapons and enchanted clothing we gather from Dagoth But it's still not enough. Damn. Let's come back The corpus is lowering my personality, I'll get slightly better We jump to Tel Fyr, from his very own and drink his corpus begone A potion that cures corpus, It kills everyone else, I guess. Returning to Balmora, we see if 96k to enchant this helmet with 1 to I can afford that. It seems not having boils and And I can get all that money back by In fact, she gets it Our acrobatics is 76, meaning we I want at least 125, and I can get that by and over again until the Max roll, nice. So why did I do this? Well, with 125 acrobatics, Doesn't matter how far you fall from, Your knees might be shit in a It's like a hundred Even without the jump spell, we're Probably unnecessary, Back on track. For more information about the Nerevarine, We've fulfilled the second part of beginning to suspect there's something to In a land with three living gods, I'm He's been recalled to the Imperial City, to go down, and he doesn't So we're off to the Temple But she's actually in Baar Dau right now, enemies of the state. We break out by smuggling a which she says was unnecessary because her in the first place. We'll meet up at Holamayan. When we take all of Gilvas Barelo's point of reputation. To learn about the Third Trial, we But Sul, my man, I've Are you surprised a prophesied This is worth The Third Trial is visiting Nereva-- Nere-- Nerevar! Getting this ring is And there's another two waiting Being named Nerevarine We're not going to bother with the other the Urshilaku, so we might as well go The last four points we need We kill Odaishah Yasalmibaal. Toris Saren. Ethal Seloth and Idroso Vendu. Sarayn Sadus. Guril Retheran. And Galasa Uvayn. Lastly, we'll do a He would like to know who the We bribe Miun-Gei, the and he gives us Eno will handle it from there. With that final duty, and those final granting us the final few reputation By speaking with any of the one of the Ashkhan's, we'll be told that Tholer would like to meet with us. For some reason, we still Normally, it's because Saryoni doesn't they publicly labeled as a But I'm not really leaning into the whole know why we gotta do this If anything, the act of preemptively make people think that It's like announcing there absolutely Like, now we know there Anyway, he sends us to no Nerevarine or What a time save. We've made such a name for ourselves the God-King of Morrowind, thinks Prophecy be damned, we did a bunch cleared up after a while. Let's go kill a god. First, Dagoth Odros for his key. Not required to kill him, And that's Keening. On the one hand, I love the restore Super useful. On the other hand, I feel like even is super overpowered I heal so much that I can even eat their spells And that's Sunder. Dagoth Ur: &quot;Come, Nerevar. &quot;Come and look upon &quot;And bring Wraithguard... &quot;Come to the Heart Chamber.&quot; &quot;I wait for you there, where we &quot;Come to me, through fire &quot;Is this how you honor the Sixth &quot;Welcome, Moon-and-Star, to All this work across We slay Dagoth Ur, but To truly put him down, enchantments binding severing his connection Divine or not, he's Now we can kill him for real. And that's that. We began as the outlanderiest Certainly got easier but it was nice to save all Thanks again to Into the Get 10% off sitewide when you use my link