Rachid: Hey there, and thank you for podcast episode. My name is Rachid Finge. And this is an episode that to personally because I've for about nine years that it was announced that Fitbit That made a lot of sense to me. Fitbit's expertise in would be great if it were Fast forward to today, and the is now a reality with the Pixel Watch, by Fitbit. So today, we're talking and mostly about the health What's the work that goes Our guest knows everything about But before I introduce you that subscribing to the &quot;Made by We still have some great episodes coming just make sure you subscribe your podcast platform calls it. All right, then, let's get into it. My guest today is intimately familiar In fact he's the group and Pixel Watch, DeCarlos Love. DeCarlos, great to have you on DECARLOS&quot; Thank you for having me. It's an honor to be here and chat to Rachid: Yeah, definitely about that, but also about yourself. So could you describe What do you do in the Pixel Watch team? DECARLOS&quot; Yeah. I'm a product manager within our And so my team has two major missions. One is really around how do we build on devices, and so everything that The other core part of my team is So what are the sensors, the make high-quality algorithms of the health and fitness experiences on our wearables. Rachid: So I'm guessing you need a passion for algorithms It's probably helpful if you Do you have any background in in health and fitness, for example? DECARLOS&quot; Yeah. I think it's definitely but for me especially it's been So health and fitness is the first thing that I a really big part of my life. My mom was a two-sport Rachid: Wow. DECARLOS&quot; So she played basketball And so I got a chance to actually go both basketball and along with her throughout that journey. I played a lot of sports from running track to wrestling to A little stint in tennis as well. So it's always been a part. And I was also fortunate enough to be in football at Drake University. And after football, I out for different professional teams Then myself, I went into coaching high So yeah, I guess you can say of my background that shows up. Rachid: Wonderful. But then that's only because then you actually need is what you have at university. So how did that interest for came along while you were also DECARLOS&quot; Yeah. So that's also another I just remember having a high interest. And probably I felt but it was something that I was when it came to math and science. And quickly, in my era growing It started to become a And I think pretty much from I knew that I was going to go and engineering, and so much so that when for football in sports, I always made department folks as a and learn what it was like to go to there. So ended up graduating, studied computer And it definitely plays a Rachid: Today's guest combines two As a product manager for DeCarlos Love gets to work on himself would have loved Pixel Watch comes packed with sensors. And while the green light on the there are quite a few It's up to DeCarlos and But that's just for starters. As DeCarlos will explain, those sensor readings to in your fitness and health. DeCarlos worked on the Wear OS so he'll tell you what it was passionate new colleagues come in. And I'm also thankful for of my rather remarkable as we were recording our conversation. Find out all about Fitbit and Pixel of the &quot;Made by Google&quot; podcast. So you end up at Google. And correct me if I'm up in the Wear OS team that Fitbit becomes a part of Google. So what was it like to see a come in who are experts in fields Decarlos: Yeah. So I joined Google first. I joined a part of the Wear OS team. It was a great time to come in. I was really bought in to the idea and investment and high And so things that were happening in And so definitely started there. Great start. After Fitbit joined in it was actually nice to but also be really close with Fitbit. At the time, I wasn't a part but we were working on some And it was just really nice to be able that they had. Fitbit's not a small company so they come with a culture and People over there for decade plus thinking about health and that is so nimble, fast, and moving. And so bringing that that with the renowned expertise that and those types of things, seeing those And it was just nice to really see both like to live in both of those worlds. Rachid: Amazing. And now you work on Pixel Watch What kind of sensors are we talk about sensors for Pixel Watch? Decarlos: Yeah. So if you think about the everything from IMU is the way we look So it's inertial. And so we looked at using that. So if you think about or if you think about the sensors and your screen automatically are powering those things, distance from a GPs, GNSS standpoint. And so those things are really core. I think the other portion that really Those are used to help And then, one that's been super development is how we're is a sensor that helps us ultimately Metrics like heart rate Rachid: And that PPG one, if is the green one that I see on the Decarlos: Yeah, yeah. So PPG is responsible for the green. It's also responsible for You oftentimes don't but that's also a part of what Rachid: Now, I couldn't possibly ask years to understand of how these you have that green light blinking and then at the end of that many heartbeats per minute I have. So how does it see my heart rate? Decarlos: Yeah. So what PPG is able to do is and flash the green light onto blood. Because it's green and blood is and use that as an opportunity to It's a lot more detailed than that, is we shine some light, light and from there, we can turn that-- using algorithms can turn that Rachid: And then what is the largest or Because you make it sound really Decarlos: Yeah. There's a lot of things you think about getting a especially at the wrist. I think one of the biggest challenges And so if you think of it's probably a little bit easier to-- not even probably. It is easier to make of what a heart rate is based off of But when you start adding in people you think about running, moving your moving them in different directions or in the gym, that motion causes And so both when you're but then also trying to movement really creates a And so the algorithms have to be smart what is actually the get rid of that noise And that becomes a key part of and where you need some expertise. In our case, that was a good candidate for machine we got to with the Pixel Watch. Rachid: So how do you use How do you teach a computer what is Decarlos: Yeah. So I think the general premise you want to feed it a bunch of inputs. And so you're going to feed You're going to feed it PPG. You're going to feed of who the person is, what exercises they may be doing. You take a bunch of inputs and and then magic happens and And that's just what we had to is really spending tens of thousands with people in all kinds of different whether that's at home, whether whether that's coming into our labs. We have a great research great at collecting this type of data. And we worked with a We really tapped into the to help collect these data. Again, we really wanted in the gym doing everyday some more intense type of workouts. And so a lot of that was to feed those inputs into the to learn what was actually and how to get that accurate Rachid: Excellent. And for those listening and thinking, that are Googlers who get to try and help you test stuff, basically. Decarlos: Yeah. They're going to be really great for extremely critical of but ultimately that a better chance of being successful. Rachid: Yeah, that's what I always hear. The dogfood community, they to serve from what I heard. Now, one other thing I heard, and is that the Pixel Watch checks it does a measurement, which of other health trackers out there. Could you tell us a And maybe more importantly, Decarlos: Yeah. So I think if you look at what this is not uncommon It is a little bit uncommon for some But for us, we really wanted to lean tracking every second every second that a person really understand their And we really think about it is With the Pixel Watch, you you understand how you're doing. And we want to give you and for that activity that's And so even if you're at rest, we that are really high accuracy. We want to be able to capture so that when you look at your was happening every second of the day. You look back at your time. Maybe you want to make sure that if the stairs and you gave a little we want to capture that movement. And we want to make sure at your day or your to really assess your that you have the full And that's something that's to give you the data but also that Fitbit is really known for. And so we have a lot of that are actual insights that can do you need to pick it Or maybe you need to take a rest. And so we have things that are powered by that heart rate Rachid: I just wanted to mention I don't mind revealing that It's been a tough night yesterday. So how do you measure let's start with, could It's a number between 1 and 100. So what does it mean you're on the other side of the scale? And how do you get to that number? What do I learn from it? Decarlos: Yeah. So the idea is helping you gauge So a lot of times we talk about and maybe people don't And so what we wanted to do is a lot of the data that we're And readiness is one And like you mentioned, a 100 means that you're just ready. You probably should go and do something. Your body is ready to take on that well you slept, looking at your HRV, and really pulling that into that So someone with 100 score, out and get those active zone minutes. Someone like yourself to assume that means that you've been Rachid: Yep. Decarlos: And maybe you probably And so it just gives you that you want to do in that what's going on with my body? Have a time, a moment of Am I stressed at work? Because all of those things show If you're not sleeping well, it's your physical, but also your mental. And then also how you show There's good studies out there that and how that actually impacts them So it's really interesting. These metrics in these things that standpoint also carry weight your everyday going to school, and close to you, even at home and family. So readiness is an indicator. It gives you a nudge on And we also within there offer-- those types of recommendations where the areas-- like or you had a hard workout, If you're really ready, to get those active zone minutes up. Rachid: You mentioned fascinating, which is HRV, which I right? Decarlos: Correct, correct. Rachid: So a person might and then from that what then the insight would be. So how do you know as OS team what kind of recommendation How do you gauge that? Decarlos: Yeah. So when we think about HRV, that it's a good place what your personal range is. Every number for every Rachid: And maybe we what is Heart Rate Variability? That is, not everyone's heartbeat Is that a way to look at it? Decarlos: Yeah. You might have a heartbeat but it doesn't mean that exactly at that pace every second. And so we can really drill down to understand what the variability is what's happening HRV is that indication of, are and flight system actually kicked in? And so it helps you And the higher your HRV, it means that you're able more things that are thrown at you from The lower it is, it might mean In a way, the way that I think about You can't really make You don't have that high variability. Rachid: I'd like to talk about but first I want to get to a section podcast episode, which is our guests to bring a number or may be important during development, So DeCarlos, I'm really wondering, Decarlos: Yeah. So the number that I brought is 200 BPM. And 200 BPM represents if I'm having a really tough workout, How close is this workout going That's something that, when I was it was a norm for me. I can say that as a non-full-time I don't see that number as often, And throughout a lot of myself and everyone on the team is multiple times throughout the week. And so I measure that 200 BPM. That was my personal-- like, did Rachid: That's amazing. All right, so that's Made By Numbers And maybe we should say there try and get to 200 a minute, right? Decarlos: Absolutely. That is a great call out. Heart rate-- your ability and so everybody's target And it can mean different things in to 200 BPM, depending on not necessarily a good or a bad thing. But it's just a number that think about what's right for them. Rachid: So let's talk about Did you ever get a 100 And if so, how do you do it? Because I'd love to know. Decarlos: I personally have not So if I figure that figure out how to let you know that. Rachid: Definitely. So how do you do sleep What are the things that are factored Decarlos: We look at everything. Heart rate is a part Obviously, we're pulling in what we call And we're looking at that information We obviously look at movement. Again, we talk about those IMU units. So we're looking at all of those and those measurements into ultimately tracking when stages, and their sleep score. So everything from how much movement compared to what a good Again, the Inter Beat Intervals, is a factor in sleep stages. And then, again, heart rate Rachid: Now, if we Zoom were focused so much on Pixel Watch and is important that a Pixel Watch but still helpfulness in general? Decarlos: Yeah. I think having access to is really important for the Pixel Watch. And everything from being able to being able to maybe at times leave your and locker room, and go out on a run to full GPS and things like that. To being able to have messages, and keep that conversation when your phone might not be as Those are some of the things that Everything also from the full and the suite of other app developers Things like Google is something that I use whether that's unlocking my door. Maybe turning off the and being able to do that quickly Or using YouTube Music So you have that whole are helpful from a Google standpoint. And then I think there's an that we saw again with the is that Google is known for that. And so those things are weaved within the Pixel Watch and we talked about, machine learning But that also shows up in all the Rachid: Now, we've had some more podcast, of course, is that no one's ever really satisfied. There's always something some grand vision that in the next device or the device after. So when it comes to health and you look forward to What else should it be able to Decarlos: That's a really good question. I think just thinking really specific features, but I think want to create helpful experiences. And so from a smartwatch, can proactively do to help a user out? From a health and fitness think it comes down to, again, doubling It's not enough to just give you data. We need to give you insights to But even take it a step forward to help journey and giving you whether that is something like, or maybe we need to help you or what type of workouts to achieve your actual fitness goals. Things like that I think are And again, just from a user to the place to live to really create that And that's something that we look Rachid: Now DeCarlos, had Isabel Olson on, who is responsible and then also design of Pixel Watch. I imagine you work closely with her and you need it to be maybe a certain So how does that process work Decarlos: Yeah. Absolutely right. We work really closely and pulling together the Pixel Watch. But I think across all of our teams, is really putting the And what are those things that are but also add a feeling to the user the watch and good from on their body, how it other people are looking at it? All of those things are really And I think through our process is and how do we start with the How do we quickly get that into testing? And then how do we get that and just testing and working with That's something that is depending on what the different sweating every detail going over that. And that's really a big part of whether that's weekly, daily, to understand where we are there, what things aren't landing. And it really drove a big were going to be ready to launch. It was really centered able to respond to those things that we were receiving. So it was definitely a really big And one for me personally is really important is just making sure continue to iterate, make those and listen to the feedback Rachid: That's great. Just out of curiosity, difficult to work on a product Would you actually 2x bigger, make your life easier maybe? Is there any truth in that? Decarlos: In general, hardware is hard. You hear that, and Working on hardware it is definitely add to that difficulty. You might be able to have if the watch was bigger size, We embrace the fact that this is that someone's going to wear multiple days throughout the week. And so I think, given it actually allows us to do more. And so actually, I think people And at least that's is put an optimism spin on it, because it can be worn all the that a person is going to have on them. Their phone is great and the but we truly believe that a And actually, the size and And so for me and I think our teams, We like the fact that it's small, So that's something Rachid: I'm glad you to see what's down the line for the Now, before we let you go DeCarlos, we podcast a Top Tips for the Road is a top tip in your field or maybe or maybe it's even it's just general life advice-- that Decarlos: I think there's probably two about. I think one is really In this world where you're designer, engineer, it's always And I think when you work it's full of extremely have all the best ideas in the world. And I think the thing that is how well you can obsess How can you state the problem? How can you put it in a way that other just by understanding your So I think that's one thing I think the second thing go after making something that you love, Strive to make that thing that is and good things will come from and you really say I want to be proud enjoy it. And so those are the two things that and make something that Rachid: Those are great and it definitely looks to me that in the Wear OS team and helping and fitness through Pixel Watch. DeCarlos, thank you so much for It was great talking to you. Decarlos: Thank you very much. An honor of mine, for sure. Rachid: Obsessing over problems and embracing tough challenges. Hearing DeCarlos say things like both an athlete and an engineer. Thanks so much for your time, DeCarlos. Can't wait to see what's next We'll be back next week for another podcast, and that one matters. See what I did there? Think the team behind the new is probably sick and tired of so I'll be careful next week. If you haven't yet, subscribe Take care. Keep those sleep scores high,