Hey everyone! It's Corissa from Resume Genius, and today, I'm going to show you how you can use And if you stay till the end, I'll share where you can find some free, to make your application more Before we dive in, let's quickly go over and why you should use it. ChatGPT is a chatbot trained to understand and generate human-like responses. What's great about ChatGPT is that it learns about context So, you can ask follow-up questions or That means you can use it for everything, from or --you guessed it-- writing your resume. If you already have an existing you can jump in at step 2 and Or stay tuned for our upcoming video on So, are you ready to create Step 1: Introduce yourself Before getting started, log in or set up Today, we'll be using the which has everything you The first step in crafting your ChatGPT resume is to provide some basic information about yourself. This includes a brief summary of your as well as your key skills and qualifications. After giving ChatGPT some basic information, provide it with a sample Using an example helps ChatGPT understand and create the kind of output you're looking for. And luckily, we have over 400 profession-specific I'll leave the link in the description. Find one that matches your title, or target title, and use the &quot;Copy to clipboard&quot; * option Here's our first prompt: &quot;You are an experienced resume writer who Help me write a resume for a Here is some information about me. Ask me questions if you need to know Then, you fill in the details using this format... I recommend writing out your so you can just copy and &quot;Here's an example of a Digital Marketing Specialist resume:&quot; Paste your resume example text here... Now you should have a basic resume filled out. But consider this a rough draft. ChatGPT doesn't know your and it'll take some fine-tuning to get your resume to the level of Step 2: Add more specifics We're going to use our second prompt to fill out our resume with some more in-depth experience. So, make a list of all the additional and show employers you're a good fit. When I say additional qualifications, I mean details like your professional certifications or licenses, awards, professional development or continuing education, and technical skills. Be sure to use specific examples to For example, if you're applying you might want to tell ChatGPT and the results you achieved. To protect your privacy like your contact information, out of your ChatGPT dialogue. You can easily add them to your resume later. Once you've got your list handy, use prompt 2: &quot;I will provide you with additional As an expert resume writer, incorporate each achievement into the Include more achievements here, specifying As long as you're specific enough, ChatGPT should But check to make sure that Step 3: Prompt ChatGPT to make improvements What you should have now is a basic resume But instead of agonizing over how to improve ChatGPT can help you polish your resume. In our third step, we'll use a two-part prompt to ask ChatGPT and then to re-write your resume Breaking this step into two because ChatGPT can use its own response from the first prompt to inform the Prompt 3 - Part 1: &quot;Please provide a list of suggestions for how to improve any of the resume sections For example, by including strong action verbs, highlighting more of my skills, and any Part two: &quot;Please rewrite the resume to ChatGPT is still far from perfect. It often fabricates details, makes mistakes, So double-check everything on your resume to make sure it's accurate and Once that's done, you can leave it as is and skip ahead or you can follow our next irresistible by tailoring it to a specific job. Step 4: Examine the job The best way to get a hiring is to customize your resume Doing this will show how your qualifications and The only problem with it can be quite time-consuming, if you're - but that's where ChatGPT comes in! ChatGPT can help you quickly swap out key skills - you just need to make sure it's accurate. So here's your fourth prompt, in two parts: Part One: &quot;You are a senior hiring manager with years Please take a look over this Digital and identify the 10 most important qualifications Here is the job listing: &quot; Paste in the job description and requirements. Part 2: &quot;You are a recent graduate with for this Digital Marketing Specialist position. Please rewrite the following resume to target these 10 qualifications and And paste in your resume. Based on this prompt, ChatGPT should generate a and uses an appropriate tone and style. As an optional addition, if you'd like to see what changes ChatGPT made to you can use a simple prompt like this one: &quot;Please list out all the changes to target the qualifications and Step 5: Edit your new resume for accuracy The last step is to carefully proofread the resume to make sure there aren't any mistakes and and truthfully represents your experience. Spend some time updating any swapping out overused like &quot;utilized&quot;, for words with more of a personal touch. Employers are becoming increasingly familiar with what an AI-generated resume looks like, and what they'd really rather see is Once you've got your resume content and format set, it's time to put it into a template. This is how you download our free templates: Use the link in the description box below, scroll down to choose the one you'd like Then you'll see options for Decide which one you'd like to use, and then And voila! Your professional resume is ready to go! We put all of the prompts and examples into a document for your reference. Just look for the link in the description below. And there you have it! Let us know how your ChatGPT resume share any amazing prompts you come up with, and feel free to reach out Best of luck from the Resume Genius