Welcome to the last Mathologer video of these videos knows that root 2, pi and e numbers cannot be written as ratios of familiar with proofs of these facts in hand, my guess is that very few of you everybody's favorite number pi. mathematicians have not seen a proof just taking someone else's word for it sorry state of affairs is that all the are very technical and for the most part make one of these proofs accessible to with the sort of animated algebra that proof I have in mind was published in Lambert and that was actually the very Lambert's prove and not any of the it is quite easy to motivate Lambert's calling out to me to be animated. I just started. As a little warm-up let me show irrationality proof, a proof of the actually a fraction u/v that would to the power of u/v then I v's power we get this equation here. But the left side is odd and the right side assumption that log 3 is rational leads to this false statement. And since nothing false can conclude that our assumption has to be fraction. That means it is irrational. puzzles and so here are some one-glance irrational? Leave your answers in the kidding! I really really, really hate strange. So hopefully that was all fun challenge, Lambert's proof that pi is of the main ingredients. In step 1 for the circle function tangent. So tan x is equal to x over 1 minus x squared over 3 minus x squared over 5, and so on. In step 2 Lambert shows that if you plug 0, you always get an irrational number. 1/2, tan of 3/4, all these numbers are step is really, really easy. You all know or 45 degrees is equal to 1. But, of and this implies that pi/4 cannot other words, pi/4 is irrational. But is 4 times an irrational number which is irrational. Now that's a really beautiful and the main part of the beauty of the all the hardcore fans among you will ask details, right? (Burkard commenting on Marty giggling) He's just laughing! Well first let me put Lambert's proof and which will give you an idea of how proof. Lambert was a contemporary of the fact, when Lambert came up with his proof Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin. like the one discovered by Lambert were mathematicians. These continued fractions as they are usually called were made popular by Euler who had succeeded in using them. For example, he showed that especially simple infinite fraction in and all the denominators are positive irrational. For example this infinite fraction here with the simple periodic pattern of must be irrational. In fact, this fraction turns out to be root 3 which is not too attempt in the comments. Should they attempt it? (Marty) I thinks so. (Mathologer) I think so, too, it's a nice one. So Euler's result leads to a very pretty proof that root 3 is irrational. Even better, all Euler used the same irrationality of that the number e is irrational and he did written as this amazing infinite denominators continuing in the infinite 10 1 1, and so on. I already talked check that one out too, that's an Okay, anyway, Lambert was undoubtedly with a great idea to turn tan X into the basic fact that tan x is equal to uses another well-known fact that the as these pretty infinite sums. upon you many many times in other videos are okay with. (Marty) What if they are not okay with it? (Mathologer) Let's see what is equal to this beautiful monster here. monster ratio into Lambert's infinite this transformation is an absolute Well hopefully the animations, which only FOR YOU, will make it all a lot easier to really good time to fasten your First, let's write all those powers of x it? Pull out a common factor in the product of x and a fraction. At this fraction trick that we'll be using over The product over there is the same as the fraction. Just think about it for a You're ok with that, great! Now, the like this big nested fraction here. All school algebra but we'll be using this yellow expressions both monster sums so that we're on the same page. Now let's unleash the reciprocal trick for the first time. Just watch it. Here we've got our product as I'm concerned. So we're off to a good great. Now if this 1 here was not there, x squared out in front of the fraction at trick, right? But since the 1 is there we'll first get rid of it using another fraction same-stuff-from-the-numerator trick. (Marty) Catchy title :) For the moment don't worry too much about following every detail, okay. We add and subtract the green denominator to and scary, but really isn't. (Marty) Yes, it is. (Mathologer) Isn't! Just think the same thing to and from the numerator numerator. Now swap the top two sums and do some housekeeping. First in the pink box pull the minus into the brackets. zero, so we're about to get rid of the Also, for later, note that we get rid of which is the constant of the sum in the just got rid of the 1 we wanted to get but just wait for it. Now some quick Okay that's minus two thirds put it again. At this point we spot a pattern boxes contain the same stuff and so the plus pink / blue but blue / blue is 1 again some easy housekeeping in the numerator. Pull out the minus, there you go, the common factors that I've highlighted Very nice, now we are ready to unleash just watch it - magic again. Magic, magic well perhaps there was a little too much own so lets us go through the whole we'll get rid of the constant in the constant in the denominator now the blue this time we add and subtract three numerator. Okay, now just follow our nose point where the numbers at the front get housekeeping again and we're back to the bottom is now three times blue / / blue is three and so we get three plus time I promise quick. quick, quick, quick, trick again. And what's next? Well we need to kill the five times the pink is equal to the blue the five out in front, and so on, pretty Phew, that was a hundred slides since I told you to fasten your seat belts :) Anyway all these manipulations are definitely quite natural and something that a lot of you doing if I had challenged you with Especially those of you who know how to experienced an eerie feeling of deja one of you can explain the connection in to Lambert and to us that somehow this going to get anywhere with making sense you how mathematicians actually assign a motivate our rule for doing this let's denominator. Okay, so we end up with a function x. Let's graph both tan x and function x approximates the orange tan x very well close to 0. Let's chop the infinite fraction at the second Amazing right? spectacularly well. Let's keep going: fraction, fifths, and so on. Overall these is in this sense that tan x really appears However here's a little bit of bad news. with a valid formula for tan x and ends up what our graphing suggests, we cannot be between tan x and the infinite fraction is let's just quickly switch back to the see at any stage of the calculation fractions at the bottom. When we say, etc. effectively hope for the best. Well so is a bullet proof proof tan x and the infinite fraction in the the proof involves looking very partial fractions. Lambert actually does laborious but in the end pretty much as out the infinite fraction in the first but link to an article that has the nicely I can also put a supplementary some more details. Anyway for our formula under control. Okay, hands up if you're still here! Okay, fantastic, merit badge but there's a little bit highlight to look forward to: an infinite let's plug in a nonzero fraction u/v for x and let's see how Lambert concludes that the tangent of this finishes the proof one for root 3 or for e I that I showed you all the numerators were 1 and all the integers and pluses and being of this infinite fractions always represent fractions are obviously not so simple so apply to prove the irrationality of just the technicality but in fact there rational numbers. For example, as a puzzle infinite fraction down there equals 1. As infinitely many infinite fractions that Anyway to get somewhere with the we can massage Lambert's infinite rid of the fractions in the numerators time. This animation of the self-explanatory. Okay now let's show why, as long as both infinite fraction is always equal to an Lambert's proof. Now, apart from the very numerators are equal to u squared, all get larger and larger. This means that all going to be a lot larger than the which says that any infinite fraction of However, waving that magic wand now to don't you think. Wouldn't be good, right? ourselves of this directly. Just so that let's suppose that 5 times v is at this point on the denominators are all Okay, alright now it's a bit fiddly but the denominators it's now not too hard five v is a positive number less than 1, I've highlighted in blue is also equal than 1. And the same is true for this following ones. What we'll show is that of all these nested infinite fractions fraction is an irrational number which really interested in namely this one three times an integer minus an irrational divided by an irrational number is blue infinite fraction irrational. Well to the fraction B over A. Remember the is positive and less than 1. But that note this down somewhere. Now let's fraction. To do this we just solve it. magic and all the bits in the numerator whole numerator is an integer, let's call special in that it is positive and less than B. Let's also note that down and now infinite fraction which will generate a go. And now repeating this infinitely ever-decreasing positive integers and now for the punchline: There is no such thing as an positive integers. Why? Well suppose A was 1,000. Then we could count down for a while but not forever. and the same is true no matter how large finitely many steps, each ending on so, because our assumption that the blue this impossible infinite descent of assumption has to be false itself that and so must be irrational. finish of things, don't you think? Lovely. Anyway, this was the last piece of our puzzle so I hope you enjoyed my take let me know in the comments what did and the way to here you earned yourself a Merry Christmas, frohliche Weihnachten and I'll see you in the new year :)