Get ready to shoot arrows , shoot arrows , run, run, run, run , run, run , run , kill and report that our grain, grass and heavy machinery have been robbed , come back to the rear troops from left and right, why don't you open the city quickly and dedicate it to us? Ah, rush for me , kill and line up for defense , how come I haven't found you? I haven't found you either. Report, Sir, General Chu has not been found in the city. Sir , you will not abandon us . You didn't abandon us in Chang'an City at the beginning, and you won't be sure now. The fire will never leave us alone. She won't sneak away on her own . What should we do if the adults really leave? Yeah, what should we do? What should we do? Yeah, what should the public do ? Just shut up. If you let me hear anyone who is making false accusations and spreading rumors behind Master Chu's back to ruin Master Chu's reputation , I will deal with it according to the military law by disturbing the morale of the army . Listen to me. Follow Master Chu's arrangements and go up to the tower to defend against the enemy. Come back, brothers . Your Highness's army has come for reinforcements. Reinforcements will arrive in less than two days. Cheer up, fight, fight, fight. We see fire ahead. The enemy is outside our range . Pay attention to defense. Hurry , hurry, hurry . Is everything okay? Hurry , come quickly. Hurry, hurry , carry it over there . No. Go over there, Nono, go over there, Nono, Master Chu, please be safe soon . I'm giving you a difficult task. You will represent me when I'm not around . You have to do your best to escort the people who have not yet been evacuated. Escape from Hongchuan through the secret passage. As long as you reach Blue City, you will be safe. Master Nuo, take care and make sure you come back alive. Hurry, hurry , hurry, hurry , run over there , run, run, run, run, run, hurry , hurry, go. Over there, hurry up, princess , Chu Qiao, they are already there. If they want to persuade me to stop , then there is no need to have this time . It is better to think of a way , how to get this small town to me as soon as possible. If so, go back After Chang'an , I will die more happily . Who can kill Chu Qiao if I pass the order? This princess will reward you with gold square taels. You promise to kill me , kill and let go . Archer Hei He , commander of Hongchuan, may not be able to hold on, so I'll take you with me. The people are preparing for street fighting . Even if we fight to the last soldier, we must defend the people in the city . Leave it to me at the last moment . Come on , Wei Shuye takes advantage of the victory to pursue kill . Protect the people. Escape quickly. Escape quickly . Kill Ge . Odd , I didn't expect that you would have this day, right? For this moment today , I endured all the humiliation and torture for so long just to see you fall with my own eyes . It was you who ruined my life . I will make you come back a thousand times, how can you hate me? Do you regret it so much now ? Regret that you saved me in the first place . Now you wish you could almost hit the wall, right ? But what's the use? You're not going to die today. Under my sword, why don't you and Yanpao be okay ? Don't worry, I will throw your head on Yanpao's body and let him worship you. Aren't you kind? Aren't you brave? Do Well, then Go die today, Yanpao is back, retreat, retreat, retreat , retreat , princess , catch her , don't let her run away, princess, are you okay? Get up , princess , let go , stop, I'm going to kill her. Let go , princess, let go of Achu. What are you doing here ? Achu , I just want to ask if you let go of the gang that burned the granary . You don't believe me, do you? If you say no, I will I believe it's good. Then I tell you, isn't it good ? The people of Yanxun and Yanbei are eagerly awaiting your return . Are we going to use war to repay them? Everything has a price, and true peace is Come and get through the way of war . Come and drink, drink up, and get up . Hurry up and hurry up and hurry up. Hurry up and put the wine . At most, we just patrol around . Nothing unusual. Since Mr. Yue wants us to secretly monitor him , he must have his reasons. Please be more patient. Hei , he will send us to Xiuli Mountain. Why have I never heard the girl mention it? Hey , what's the matter? Hey, can you see clearly that this is His Highness's order ? Your Xiuli army only listens to Chu Qiao and not His Highness. Isn't that what General Cheng meant? It's just Xiuli. The army is all equipped with elite soldiers and strong generals. It's true. Back then, Hongchuan City, Beishuo City , and later Chang'an City were almost destroyed by your hands. You are really shrewd and capable, and your strength is extraordinary. General Cheng, what do you say? What do you mean by this ? Just tell the truth. I think you are here to cause trouble . I am talking to He Xiao. It is your turn to interrupt. General Cheng . Since it is His Highness's order , we must abide by it. But can we say goodbye until Miss Chu comes back? There is no need to leave again. His Highness's order is that you leave immediately. Because your personnel shortage is so serious that Xiuli Mountain has been directly integrated into the local garrison . Stop, stop , stop , what are you doing , what are you doing, stand back, I will fight with you , go back , let me go, calm down , you can't be killed, look at me , you must not do the following. If you are really shameless people, you should understand. The most shameful thing for the whole Xiuli Army is this military flag. Back then, you betrayed the old marquis and caused Yanbei to be defeated by the Wei army . The people of Hongchuan and Beishuo were also harmed by you. Now you can no longer survive in Chang'an and you have other ideas. Hit Your Highness , and you are taking refuge in a woman in order to survive in the world . I, Cheng Yuan, stand upright to be with you, I feel disgusted . Cheng Yuan , our Xiuli army is loyal or traitorous, it is not your turn to judge when the Japanese army of Qi comes. You abandoned the city and fled without distinguishing between ourselves and the enemy. Afterwards, you asked your brothers to sacrifice their lives for you . You think highly of yourself too much . You are ashamed to be with us and we don't bother to stand with you. Now His Highness only says to let us . Withdrawing to Xiuli Mountain , I I advise you to return the military flag to me. You'd better not touch my bottom line. If you are really shameless people, you should understand that the most shameful thing about your Xiuli Army is this. The military flag , Cheng Yuan , I advise you to return the military flag to me . You'd better not touch my bottom line and kill him. Your Highness has rebelled completely. His Highness , I'll take your warrant and go to their camp. They were ordered to go to Xiuli Mountain to consolidate the rear . They were extremely arrogant and refused to obey His Highness's orders . They even asked to see Chu Qiao by name and said they only listened to Chu Qiao . I reasoned with them and said that Yanbei is governed by you. Since they are The soldiers of Yanbei should obey your orders. Even she, Chu Qiao, is one of yours. Didn't they end up fighting ? I have already arrested these rebels. Your Highness obeyed your orders . You deliberately let them go, but you went so far as to send them away. On the way , Sir Nuo, Sir, a sister just gave me a letter , saying that it was a young master who asked me to forward it to you . Look , Xing'er Xiuli Army, is it difficult to rescue Sir ? What happened? Are the troops who have experienced hundreds of battles planning to rebel again? Your Highness Xiuli's army has absolutely no intention of rebellion. All those who clashed with General Cheng Yuan were actually the soldiers who were eager to protect the flag. They also hope that General Cheng will forgive me. I cannot forgive you. Back then , you betrayed Yanbei. At that time, the name Xiuli Army no longer existed, so what use is the military flag ? Now you are just doing this with this piece of rag and taking action with His Highness's personal guards. If you don't study this matter carefully, where will the military law of Yanbei belong to Your Highness? The matter is not as simple as General Cheng said . I hope the palace and the city will find out what is going on. I have ordered that all those who have done anything with the Black Eagle Army be dealt with by military law. Anyone who disobeys will be punished with the same crime . Your Highness , Your Highness , if you must, you must be punished. Yu , Na, He Xiao is willing to pay for it with his life . Commander He, you are considered a meritorious person . Naturally, you cannot compare with these rebels . Your Highness He knows . The Xiuli Army did make big mistakes in the past , but the Battle of Chang'an and the Battle of Hongchuan. We have proved with our blood that we are loyal. The heaven and the earth can shine, the sun and the moon can be seen . Your Highness, why do you still have a grudge against our Xiuli Army ? You are so impudent that a small commander dares to talk to His Highness like this. You are not strict with me, Your Highness. Without being held accountable, do you still dare to commit such a crime ? Your Highness, if you insist on doing so , aren't you afraid of chilling the hearts of the brothers? Are you chilling the hearts of the people in the world? Pull him down. General , Your Highness, even the surrender of the Wei Dynasty Why do you have to fight against our Xiuli Army when you have a foothold? We still have to kill all His Highnesses . I, He Xiao, are not convinced . Hey, he said, you are not going to rebel . Stop it. He Xiao , what we are dealing with today are rebels . They have nothing to do with the rest of the Xiuli Army . I suggest you not to get involved. Otherwise, don't blame me. You are guilty of disturbing the morale of the army. We are not rebellious . We are just protecting the military flag . His Highness He Xiao is willing to pledge his head to guarantee it. Everyone here has no intention of rebellion. If Cheng Yuan hadn't gone too far in bullying, how could this incident have happened? Military orders are military. I don't listen to explanations . I only look at the results. If everyone has an excuse, how should I, Yanpao, run the army? His Highness orders that all those who have had contact with the Black Eagle Army will be dealt with according to military law. Anyone who refuses will be guilty of the same crime . Your Highness, stop it, Mr. Chu. Is this how you lead the troops? The military flag and number are the honor and life of the soldiers. The flag bearer is the soldier, and the flag should be there. I asked you to keep the number and the military flag, but did I ask you to fight against your own people? Not only did you not I don't dare to admit my mistake and speak rudely in front of His Highness. What do you want to do ? I know you are wrong. Your Majesty is not strict . How can you be so ignorant of how to adapt to His Highness? Your Highness, what happened today is all my fault. I gave the order to He Xiao and the others . I just followed orders and my subordinates have been feeling unwell recently and failed to supervise them , so that they made such a big mistake . My subordinates voluntarily requested military justice. If I remember correctly , you have no actual duty in the military now. When did Xiulijun become you? My subordinates, shut up while I talk to His Highness. How can you interrupt, Your Highness ? The Xiuli Army acted wantonly and deserved to be punished. However, as General Hongchuan, I was their direct superior . I have orders from above and I dare not refuse to ask Your Highness to punish me. The subordinates were lax and punished them lightly in view of their merits in defending Hongchuan City. The subordinates are willing to shoulder the full responsibility for the mistakes they committed . Xiuli Army Xiuli Army What else is Xiuli Army? The designation of Xiuli Army has been cancelled. Come on , Yanbei cannot tolerate the traitor Xiuli Army's return to Yanbei. Your Highness personally promised it. Your Highness is our King Jinkouyu of Yanbei. The previous affairs have been written off long ago. You still scream like a rebel. You are trying to make His Highness unkind. Is it a place of injustice? The letter is abominable. You are deliberately back-testing. I think you are a fine girl from the Wei Dynasty. You are so smart and articulate. The military flag and number are the honor of an army . The beautiful army is the old marquis. How can it be so easy to build it with your own hands? He was abolished and led the army to follow the palace from Chang'an to Yanbei. He went through several life-and-death battles and made great achievements. He defeated the Wei army many times under Hongchuan City and beheaded Yuan Qi . How can such an army easily abolish its designation and destroy its military flag ? Your Highness is busy with affairs. There must be some ignorant villain who is obstructing and conspiring to drive a wedge between our Yanbei army. You are evil and shameless and can be punished. You are spitting blood at me. Cheng Yuan , do you dare to come forward again ? I have a dream with you. You bastard, I will chop you down and take it. How dare you? Drawing a sword in front of His Highness is what you call loyalty. Let me go. Ah Chu, who asked you to come here? No one called me. I came here on my own . Go back. It's none of your business here . Yan Bei's business is my business. I am a member of the army , and I am a general of the Xiuli Army. I should be responsible for the mistakes of my subordinates. Do you know what you are doing ? I know very well that you are going against me . Your Highness is serious in your words . I am only responsible for my own army. Ah, your army . Mr. Chu resigned due to illness and is no longer the general of the Xiuli Army. The crime committed by the Xiuli Army has nothing to do with others. Execution , Your Highness , Mr. Chu , please get up. Don't worry about what I am waiting for. You can go back. The Xiuli Army is not guilty. They have followed His Highness all the way and have been loyal and loyal to you. Ah Chu , you can tell me in all fairness. Who is the Xiuli Army loyal to now? I am willing to guarantee with my life that the Xiuli Army will be loyal and loyal to you from top to bottom. If they dare to rebel against me, Chu Qiao is willing to die under random arrows without a complete body. Are you willing to vouch for it with your life ? Yes, I am willing to vouch for it . Who else is willing to vouch for them besides you? No one here believes in them except you. The Xiuli Army asks Your Highness to take back his life, Mr. Chu. You go back, one person works and the other treats me as Wu Danyu. I am not afraid of death for a long time . Your Highness, please do not want the execution . Yan Xun , please do not congratulate Xiao Yu. Your Majesty is lax and punishes you with eighty sticks. Take him away. Ah Chu , have you slept? Are you so happy when you come back? It's been a long time since we had a chance to sit down and have a good chat . I've suddenly missed it very much these days . How funny our days in Chang'an were . I used to hate that place so much , but now I always think of it . I think of the first time I saw you . You who are desperately protecting me on the Nine Nether Platform think of the Tianlao Prison Ah Chu , who has always been with me in Yingge courtyard, I'm sorry to make you sad , but I can't help it. I swear to give you the best life, so I want to give you Chang'an and the whole world . Maybe this It's not what you want , but it's the best I can give you. Xiulijun , letting them go is my greatest mercy , but they, Ah Chu, the last thing I want to see is you being hurt, but I still made you sad. But anyone can leave me. You can't. Anyone can betray me . You can't. Ah Chu, I only have you. Yan Xun. It's a pity that you and I are no longer on the same path. The doctor said that you can't drink anymore after taking the medicine . A wound as big as a bowl in the stomach can kill it. It lasted two days and one night. Now I have some skin trauma and can't drink anymore. The more I live, the more money I get. This time we framed Xiulijun . Let her know about it and she ran away. I came back to protect those damned ones . Fortunately, I have His Highness' support . But as long as this woman is here in the future, sooner or later we will become fish meat on the felt board and let her slaughter it . But Your Highness won't allow it . She touches our general. This shows that His Highness It's still our fault . If His Highness hadn't hated Xiuli Che, this would have made our heroes since ancient times miserable. After a few days, they reconcile and let her seize the opportunity. That would be our death. In fact, we are all our own people. If we talk about it properly. Mr. Chu is not unreasonable when he says that there may be a chance for a change , right? Let's not say such nonsense . This kind of nonsense that makes others' ambitions destroy one's own prestige. How big is she ? She is a woman who can't give birth to children at home and goes out to show her face. Beat and kill our Highness , what kind of person is he ? Why would he fall in love with a woman like her? Please speak politely . If someone hears this, the first thing His Highness wants is that your head won't survive anyway. It doesn't matter if you grow up . If you die, you will die in the underworld. I still have my brother Sun He accompanying me. Shut up and get out of here. Your Highness, please get up. Thank you, Your Highness Cheng Yuan. Although I am protecting you today , it does not mean what you have done. I don't know. I'm warning you again . The conflict between Achu and I is between the two of us. Don't get involved anymore. Do you understand? I understand. Rest, Your Highness . You know that all officers and soldiers in the army are What did they say about you? They said that for the sake of a woman, you ignored your great cause and gave up the country you had at your fingertips to others. Sooner or later, you will repeat the same mistakes of the old Marquis. You will not have a good death, nor will you live a good life . Why do you care about whether you want to die or not ? It seems that General Cheng just wants them to die . He said that there is an enemy situation. I think he just tricked them into going to the woods to silence them, right? Since they are not loyal to His Highness, there is no point in keeping them. Shut up , don't talk nonsense to me , Chu Tian. Jiu Chu Tianren Lord Jiang, why is there no trace of the Xiuli Army in the army? He Xiaoren? Lord Chu, now that Bao Jing is not a general of the Xiuli Army, it is inconvenient for Jiang Teng to reveal it. Do you think you can escape the first grade of junior high school? Fifteen? Let them sit down. Sit down. Let me ask you again . Where did the Xiuli Army go ? He Hexiao led the Xiuli Army out of the camp . What are they doing out of the camp? There is an enemy situation near the ice lake . General Cheng Yuan gave the order. The Xiuli Army is out of the city to fight. General , General , what you have asked me to do has been completed. She believes it. She has already gone after the Xiuli Army. Well done . When they get to Ice Lake , use the people at Meilin Pass to capture them. They got rid of the general's subordinates for unknown reasons . You don't understand why I did this, right? Of course, the subordinates know about the rift between the general and Chu Qiao. It's just that His Highness likes her very much . Will His Highness be unhappy if we do this ? At this time, I don't care whether he is happy or not . As long as Chu Qiao is with His Highness , there is no way to avenge the people who died in vain in Yanbei. This is why as a general, Chu Qiao is not suitable for Yanbei. She will only smooth out our Highness. The sharp edge prevents His Highness from becoming king and dominating. As a woman , her heart is not with His Highness at all. If His Highness finds out, he knows , he knows, and he will die. Only His Highness, Chu Qiao , can take the path he should take. I understand you. Go down first, No , Lord Chu, Master Chu is here , Master Chu, Master Chu , are you okay , okay ? We were sent to patrol , why are you here too ? Yeah, I'm worried that you encountered an ambush . Yes, we did encounter an ambush . The young master seems to have reason to ambush Yu Wenyue . What's wrong, sir ? I think there is a problem . What is the problem ? Yan Xun, he is crazy and his target is not me at all. It's Yu Wenyue. What should we do now ? Let's split up. You take the Xiuli Army to the direction of Meilin Pass and we'll meet there . Okay, everyone, follow me to Yanpao. Do you know what you are doing ? What do you think about Yu Wenyue? He has been shot dead by me. Why did you kill him ? An officer from the Wei Dynasty secretly sneaked into my heartland in Yanbei. What's wrong with me killing an officer from the Wei Dynasty? Ah Chu, in your heart, the whole Yanbei and I are not as good as him. Yu Wenyue, you can kill him , you can kill him openly on the battlefield, but how can you use me, use his feelings for me , I have a pre-existing relationship with him , we don't have to hold back when we meet on the battlefield, Ah Chu , I am from Yanbei. King, I have to do many things . Do you know that everything I do is for you ? Killing my comrades and the army, forcing me to abandon our ideals, driving me away from the center , doubting me, using me, distrusting me, spying on me. These are all It's good for me. I just want to protect you. This is what you call protecting Ah Chu. I just want to ask you, have you loved me over the years ? I don't know if my feelings for you are considered love. I only know that I care about you and care about you. I cannot tolerate others hurting you. I regard your dream as my dream. I regard your home as my own . Your position, your safety, and your gains and losses have been the most important thing in my heart these past few years . My biggest dream is to be able to I will go back to Yanbei with you . Seeing you come home safely has fulfilled my wish . I have lost my loved ones . You have been the most important thing to me over the years . You are the meaning of my existence . But now I wonder if all this I have done is worth it. Have I seen you clearly, Yanpao? You have been suspicious since you returned to Yanbei. You doubt Miss Yu, doubt Mr. Wu, doubt me. You are suspicious of anyone who threatens you in terms of rights. You have become a slave of rights. Your hatred is just for your selfishness Yanpao . I don't blame you for killing Yu Wenyue. I just blame your means for being too mean. You shouldn't trample on my loyalty to you like this . You shouldn't trample on me like this. The relationship between us is now as you wish . I'm going to find Yu Wenyue. I'm warning you for the last time if Yu Wenyue dies in Yanbei. I will never forgive you . If you don't get out of the way, you're late. Please help. Master , he is in Binghu. Sir, you go first. I will stop you . . Yu Wenyue Black, Yu Wenyue Xing'er, I'm here . Come on , hurry up. No, I'm not going anywhere. Xing'er, be obedient and sorry . I will never leave you again. Hold on, hold on, hold on , get up , Yu Wenyue, get up , get up, Yu Wenyue , get up , walk quickly, no , no, no, no, no , wake up, Yuwen Yue, Achu, you said I have changed. In fact, I have never changed. It's just that you never know what I really want . But now I have to tell you my beliefs and ambitions in this way. Your Highness, the ice is too fragile and no one can climb on it. Wait for me. No , no, Yu Wenyue , stay alive with me. I want you to stay alive with me, Yu Wenyue.