(gentle music) - [Ardie] At the end of they have no meaning without It's all about their that perhaps they could be at their best. - [Enes] Today we're visiting Arya Group's newest a home that pushes the boundaries and is truly unlike - The objective is not The objective is to create whatever you do with the intention of being perfect. - [Enes] Its contemporary integration of technology and automation is a feast for the senses. And we got to sit down Ardie Tavangarian. - My biggest expectation and they're not intimidated They feel that the building (majestic music) - [Enes] Every room offers while harmonizing with nature. - The objective is to and whatever it costs, it costs. - [Enes] This is a once in a learn, and experience a home with this kind of intentionality. There's so much to see, to share it with all of you. (majestic music continues) - This place clearly has a identity. (gentle music) (lighthearted music) (water pattering) - Welcome to Villa Siena, everyone. We have a really, really So many different architectural amenities, and rooms to cover, and we are just beyond excited. Now, come on in to this grand motor court. The arrival experience to We have the gates opening lined with trees. And that driveway first takes where we have the garage. And then the same driveway reveals this amazing property, and you arrive to your grand motor court. Now, as soon as you come up to this level, the first thing you how it surrounds the property It almost sets this calm zen feeling before you step into the home. You have oak trees, olive trees, and they also have natural elements throughout the entry of this home, like this water feature, fire And the same motor court also seamlessly flows to your backyard. Now, I wanna bring so we can talk about the house itself. It features this striking architecture. I love the use of silver travertine, cantilevered roof lines, And we have the two corners here seamlessly opening up to the outdoors thanks to the 12-foot And they also have blinds on These blinds reflect the sun and they also work with the sun, open up and close throughout the day. And we will talk about these Now, the remaining details I love the brass panel these sculptures, fire And then on this side, with all these fins. And these fins are teak-wrapped. And believe it or not, we actually have the But first, I wanna take This section of the wall and with a push of a button, you can open up the entire section here and reveal the room which is a Japanese tea room. I mean, how cool is this? The entire wall effortlessly opens up and reveals the space. - [Cody] I don't think we've seen that big of a moving door - Unbelievable. And there you go, you can just walk straight into your Japanese tea room, which is an elegant space. We have travertine walls this gorgeous seating area double-sided fireplace. And then we have these two glass doors opening up to the office Now, in Japanese culture, they to welcome their guests, to have conversations So it's nice to have a space like this right off the entry of your home. And if you wanna take your you can simply flow to the office as well. Now, I wanna go back out for a second because I wanna showcase everyone how cool this front door design is. To my left, we have the biometric reader. So that's your additional security. And you can simply open up this massive door. Please, come on in. And this door opens up The entry of this property, really sets the tone for what's to come. I mean, look at this space. We have 16-inch wide plank flowing you to the formal Behind that, we have the family room, and it actually takes you all the way to the other side of the property. And we have a lot of details, finishes, and features to cover here. But before we do that, I actually of this gorgeous home. We have 8 bedrooms, 24 bathrooms, over 35,000 square feet of interior space built on an approximately 1.5 acre lot. And this property is an off market listing with an asking price of $177 million. I wanna give big thanks and the visionary behind this and his team at Arya Group And as always, you can find in the description of this video. Make sure to check it out. Now, let's come back to the foyer. I actually wanna bring Through this opening, you can look down to which is an exquisite space. I love the volume here. You can see the digital which is super cool, wood plank ceiling, plaster walls. And I also really like the railing detail here with a wide top. That way, you can place your drinks as you are hanging around the property, interacting with it, which is super cool. And if we go this way, flows to this corner section And they designed these custom and create additional moments relax, enjoy the property, And it doesn't hurt that you also have a reflection pool here to bring that additional zen energy. Now, coming back to the entry, on the other side, we have In fact, this travertine-clad And next to that, we have this fabric wall with this beautiful art This is actually a pocketing wall, and it goes in to open up which is incredible. I mean, there are so many in this property, and this is another one. And let's go right in. This office truly has it all. We have a conference table, your desk, library that So we got a lot to cover here. First, I wanna talk about In fact, Cody, let's get a closeup. Look at all the gears here as you move the glass top. Super cool. And you can also see the on the ceiling here as well, where we have the cove lighting. Then we have the bringing additional warmth. And then we have this beautiful bar with a book-matched marble back wall. This marble is Afyon Violet. It actually comes from Turkiye. It has this rich vein structure. Your bar is leather-wrapped, your bar stools. And then on the other side, we have this elegant seating area. And of course, no office is that is situated on this side. But more importantly, my is the fact that we have You can see all these floating And then your wall mount staircase takes you up to the second floor. And look at that picture window, how it brings the nature, the outdoors straight into the space. And this is one of the important At any given moment, it tries and bring the outdoor as much as possible. So I wanted to mention that. That picture window is beautiful. Now, coming back to the desk, we have the TV with a camera on top. And I also like that, as you walk around the space. So you can just be free, walk and participate in your meeting. Around that, we have I love these geometric lines. And these are functioning cabinets. I wanted to mention that. - [Cody] Those are cool. - Super cool. And behind this pocketing wall, of the art piece that we mentioned. You have more of a Super cool with some LED lighting. And like we said earlier, you can close off this section if you want or simply open it and Now, Cody, can we pan to this side? On this plaster wall, we Look at this solid wood seating bench that brings that organic And then on the other side, we It's another elegant space, that has a onyx insert right All these chairs are with diamond stitching detail. And then we have two gorgeous a fireplace that cozies up the space. And obviously, this room, just seamlessly opens up to the outdoors. And we have an additional that we will cover later. But the coolest aspect of this dining area is the fact that we that's carved and chiseled That's a ceiling mount faucet right there. And that way, you can just wash your hands before you enjoy your meal or you can simply plug the and you can serve your How cool is this? - [Cody] It's really cool between these two spaces - Absolutely. And it's just a nice strong touch, you know, having a piece of natural stone right in the center of your home. And just like you said, it between the formal dining area which is the area that I love these different seating sections. Double-sided sofas, beautiful books, accessories, candles. Every little thing is so well It's exquisite, it's warm. And then we have this nearly 30-foot high ceilings. You can see the landing Beautiful light fixture And the pendants that are actually within those are your additional Because we have such vast volume here, they didn't want you to compromise when it comes to your so they brought additional And then you'll have this cozy fireplace to warm up this room. But even more importantly, this And when you're sitting down here, interacting with your friends and family, you can actually see the individuals that are on the other side. You can make eye contact. And we have the family room right there, which is a very clever touch. And look at these onyx walls how it goes up all the way to the ceiling where we have a skylight. This is a very impressive space. And even more importantly, the entire room opens up to the outdoors thanks to these true floor And we're gonna show how these But now, Cody, let's take so we can talk about this grand staircase, which is so impressive. You can hear the water. See all these different And the fact that this is a and connecting all four levels is amazing. I love this minimalist railing design. Then you have your handrails that are leather-wrapped Each one of your steps You have a gorgeous light fixture that is attached all and flowing right in the And then, on the other side, you can see the travertine wall. And then they also have these brass panels that mimic the texture of giving additional dimension to the space. And to bring the nature they have placed a massive screen here. And to amplify the viewing experience, they also surrounded the which is absolutely insane. Look at my backdrop. - [Cody] This is one of the I think I've ever seen. - And lastly, before I love the sculptures here. Just like me, they're just observing and admiring the staircase, Now, I wanna bring everybody because we're gonna flow Again, we have these opening up the formal travertine floors throughout, with the planters on the back. I really like the screen detail here that provides additional And then we have two with brass tops. And it's just a great And the fact that your formal dining room is right next to you, that section can be your People can go in, grab their food, come over to this side, enjoy. And they can also just flow where we have this antique fire This is such a cool, fun And then we have the family All these spaces are And the scale of this terrace, motorized louvers that are above us. And of course, right behind me, that open up to the grand living room. Now, these doors also that we talked about earlier. So with a push of a button, you can actually close these blinds and provide additional privacy, not to mention these blinds which is super cool. Let's open them back up. And then on top of that, we opening up the grand living which is absolutely insane. I mean, look at the size of these doors and the fact that they're motorized. And they quietly open up This is insane. - [Cody] That is insane. Have you ever seen doors that - Never. This was custom done for this project. And the scale of these doors And the fact that they I'm out of words. I don't know what to say. Just like the rest of the opens up to the outdoors and into the nature that (meditative music) - The initial design came out of, how do we almost build a And what makes this unique, and which I can't get any credit for it, is the nature around it. The fact that there is no Everything, it has a organic shape to it, organic form to it. And what the land is, essentially a place that is a gift to us. And we are basically We wanna make it better and respected, and that's how we start our design. (meditative music continues) The gardens that you see on the backyard, a big part of it, they're And without building retaining walls, you're able to essentially Our goal has been to create spaces that really have a great marriage between outside and inside. (meditative music continues) - Now let's go see the lush You have this vast grass And you have so much Right in front of us is You get a view of the city. And we're only a few minutes from the iconic Sunset Boulevard, which is really convenient. And this outdoor space for you to hang out with And I really like how is designed in a way for In fact, right behind me, we have this sunken seating section that's framed by these built-in planters. They called that area the Nest. In fact, the entry is actually a keyhole. And you have outdoor seating with a fire pit right in the center. It's a cozy area for you to enjoy. And I really like the sculpture Now, if you look around or look at the perimeter of this backyard, you can also see this Just like what we talked you have a generous countertop space and all these bar stools. That way, you can even and have a little moment to yourself. Now, if you wanna take to the next level, we have But with a push of a And that's your outdoor screen. It's 9-feet tall, 21-feet wide. And it is crazy to have a screen like this right in the center of your backyard. Isn't this wild? - [Cody] It's so cool. And the fact that all the plants on top are actual live plants, it just makes it all so and it's a really cool party trick. - It is a cool party trick. And the way they incorporated technology throughout this property I mean, push of a button, and you're just looking which is fantastic. And when you turn to the other side, this is a great angle for us to enjoy and appreciate the architectural I mean, this is absolutely wild, the scale, curved lines, those metal screens that the ceiling height. and how you have these all these interactive pieces as you enjoy your day in this property. You have sliding glass truly opening up the indoors to outdoors and creating that harmony And I'm simply out of words. I don't think I've ever looked at a This is fantastic, and we Follow me this way. Now, that wraps our tour We have the rest of the another small seating area to our left. Back on the travertine, you have this really with a linear fire pit Above us is a motorized awning, so you can have this section shaded or open up and bring And when you're ready, you So this is the first It is definitely generous. Look at this sectional These exquisite ottomans bring And then we have a What I like about this space to these different outdoor sections. That way, it makes it really easy for you to go in and out of the space, interact with all these different areas. And then on the back, we have So there's an opening here that where we have the wellness center. And what we're looking at that fell over from the And Ardie's team basically placed it here, and planted a bunch of and made it a live art piece. But I also really like how they brought the with LED lighting. And they placed seating sections around it and turned this into a cool I thought this was a really clever touch. Now, going to the other side, the family room is And they accomplished that with which is really nice and modern, and it just gives additional And then we flow to the where we have this exquisite seating area. And then you have your a beautiful bar on the back. And to compliment this section, we have the other side that we talked about earlier. Again, this design allows you to see the other side of And then going this way, I wanna cover this section. It gives access to your chef's kitchen. And to our right, we have And the door on our left opens up to two powder rooms for this level. Now, let's talk about this beautiful bar. I love how all these different come together in this space. We have travertine, back-lit countertops, steel frame glass shelves for all of your glassware and accessories, all your spirits with And then we have the island design here. Cody, can we get a closeup? This wood here is called Purple Heart. It has this really nice And I also really like and cut the glass countertop accordingly. Then you have these leather-stitched, But the focal point of is the marble sink here, how it's incorporated into the countertop. Instead of a regular faucet, they placed a floor mount tub filler here. - [Cody] That's really cool. - Super cool, such a creative touch. And it just anchors this Now, let's take everybody I'll meet you right there. There are two details I wanna talk about. Number one, we have an that compliments the And number two, I wanna talk about these If we can get a closeup right here, these sliding glass doors Essentially, the glass itself and that's how they can get which makes your experience You can see the outdoors and they operate very quickly. Now, another detail I wanna cover. Cody, can you step outside for a second? - [Cody] I sure can. - We have this hangar And with a push of a button, you can hydraulically close this door. How cool is this? - [Cody] That's pretty cool. And the stained glass - I know. It's such a nice touch. And there you go. I mean, the way this property how it interacts, I've And we still have so much more to cover. And throughout the tour, to cover all of its features. But there are so many different rooms and areas in this house that we might have to skip so I wanna give everybody a heads up. Now, welcome to the side of the property where we have the main pool. This pool is incredible. Before we talk about it, that's - [Cody] Oh, I didn't know that. - So clever. They placed this art piece on the bottom. Yeah, that is a rain chain. Such a clever touch. - [Cody] That makes sense. - And then on the other side, we have the first section of the pool. You have your raised hot tub. The mosaic work throughout the And then the parameter of the pool has this brown natural stone. And the idea here was for It's like the edge of the river, where you have the soil and the landscape. And the pool itself has How clever is that? Again, tying that natural And then you have all these bamboos that are providing additional privacy. Then in the center, we have that's sunk in, super cozy. You have your built-in motorized awning above, and a And continuing this way, we And before I come back to the pool, I wanna talk about the that takes you down to the lower level. So on this side, we have with their own bathrooms. Now, to save some time, we're But also, on the lower level, we have a putting green where we have two more And we also have a really with a fire feature in front of it. Now, let's go check out I mean, look at my backdrop here. We have the bamboo for privacy. I really like their design aesthetic and their reason behind why they wanted to have and finish it with all these materials to give it that river and natural element. And then you have beautiful I mean, this is fantastic. I would love to spend some time here. - [Cody] I would too. The contrast between the darker edges, and the blue mosaics, it's literally an oasis. - Without a doubt. It looks stunning. Alright, let's continue, Cody. We have some lounging beds here, more outdoor seating Let's talk about the This outdoor dining table is so cool, two massive slabs that are right in the center. Then we have the outdoor kitchen here. Cody, I have to mention this. Can we pan to this side? Perfect place for a DJ booth. - [Cody] Oh it is. It's just a nice touch. Look at the landscaping around us. And then you have this built-in seating with a fire pit. And then it gets better. You go this way, your gas and you have access to your grounds from this section as well. And then when you're ready, you go in to the dining area here. But before we do that, can we tilt up? Look at that rustic balcony That actually opens up to And we're gonna see that But for now, let's go to check out the family dining room. We have two tables here. And we've seen these tables earlier on at the other outdoor dining area. And, Cody, can we actually get a closeup? They have this brass surface here, but the way they installed the surface with these pin nails is Then you have your comfortable seating. It's a really nice cozy space And it makes it really easy get some shade, or just walk back outside, or you can just come over to this side and flow to this amazing show kitchen. Take it all in. We have a cozy seating marble countertops. I also really like how this space opens back up to the pool And then we have a floating fireplace here with an open corner. Really cozy space. And then on the other side, book-matched countertops. And this is the same marble that we saw by the office, Afyon Violet. And it has a really rich vein structure. And then cabinetry features bar seating. And then we have the rest Check this out. We have a coffee station here. And look at these drawers, with all these additional your glassware. And then you have an ice I know Cody would like this. - [Cody] Oh, that's cool. - That is super cool, right? And continuing our tour, It's actually fabricated We have a TV here. And behind this wall, we that we'll talk about in a second. But first, I wanna actually The island also features another sink. We have the rest of the appliances, fridge and freezer, here. But what I like about this countertop is the fact that it that's below the marble countertop. In fact, controls are There you go, these are your controls. And you just place your pan, - [Cody] That's super cool. And I like that there's below the control system for the stove. - It's really cool, and you gotta love the You don't see anything. It just looks like a and that's it. - [Cody] Now, I have a question. Without that rubber really where to put - That's a good question. I'm assuming it detects and it just heats that section up. - [Cody] Ah, okay, that's cool. - It's a nice minimalist touch. - [Cody] Yeah. - And then on the other But above that, we have And with a push of a button, you can switch the screen to a camera that shows your chef's kitchen, which is a really cool interactive touch. But instead of showing it on this TV here, we'll actually take all of you inside. Come on in. This has to be the best chef's kitchen we have ever seen in any home. Look at this massive island design that's right in the center, with multiple gas cooktops and ovens. We have the grills on the other side, sink, stainless steel And then you have a commercial vent above. And when you look around, you see so many different materials and finishes coming together. You have shaker cabinets, I really like this giving you that warmth. And you have pretty much everything you could possibly need here, fridge space, two dishwashers, two sinks. And the fact that a space like this exists in a residential home, - [Cody] If I was a private and I would dream to be, 'cause it's just like a real restaurant. - I mean, the thought the flow, the functionalities, amenities, and features you have. There's a walk-in fridge And next to that is a glass door that opens up to the rest area. When you work at a property like this, there's a good chance So it's nice that the gets a dedicated space Now, next to us is this And look at all the details, these metal drawers. And these doors are so They're like G-Class doors. - [Cody] Literally. - Super cool and great appliance that compliments your chef's kitchen. Now, I wanna take everybody and I wanna mention something. We have a little surprise for all of you. We've actually toured the second part of the chef's kitchen later in the afternoon so we can show this property at night. And it looks phenomenal. I mean, look at the setup here. We have the interior lights at 30% and the mood lighting at 15%. So you get this really And obviously, we saw the And with the screen on the all the materials throughout, it really embodies a That's why we wanted to share it. And on the other side, we And look at all the mood lighting throughout. And we have these massive pivot doors just flowing you to the backyard. In fact, let's go check it out. Now, we have the family room to our right. And obviously, even at night, we left the sliding glass doors all open so we can get this immersive experience. And these fire features play by connecting all these spaces to this property. And you combine that with outdoor lighting and indoor lighting, it really accentuates the architectural feel of this home. I mean, look at the This home sits so and it's just an experience to be here. When you think about the the material selection, it really provides a unique experience, and that's why we wanna When I look at this property, understand its features and details and the material selection, it really is a design that speaks for me and the intentionality that we experience throughout the entire home. (rhythmic music) You have what I would like where you mix not only so but also styles. And you merge 'em in a way that I quite haven't where you can really exude these styles or cultures but you create very seamless harmony between these spaces as well. Easy example is your Japanese tea room leading to a very stark to a grand living room like this, where you have so many that ground you and And as we go along, each even though they cohesively work together, they offer something a It's like every room has a - Our concept of design is from By doing that, what is the when you get to the hundred, - Your material selection is also heavily influenced by nature. A lot of the materials I see try to steer away from manmade products. Why you value so much using this many different in your properties? - Every element of this - It comes from Mother Earth. - Right. Use of materials is very specific to us. We use traditional materials in a context of modern architecture. (meditative music) It's not a replica, it's not a surface. It is what it is. And, you know, it's very - Intentionality in this in every space, every designed, and how they You just feel the intention. You feel the purpose, which And how do you accomplish - The objective is not The objective is to create whatever you do with the intention of being perfect. And how do I create a space that people, somehow they feel good about themselves? - And that level of thinking, and true execution shows It's one thing to say it, but it's really something and deliver it. And I see that delivery on this house. And I find that very impressive. (lighthearted music) Now, what an arrival to the Spiral staircase, travertine floors, board form concrete walls. And I also really like how they brought the natural elements of water and fire to this level as well. Now, before we see I actually wanna take everybody this way. We have these floating steps taking you to this circular section. This is where you can see the water feature a little that massive screen that we And from this angle, the spiral staircase looks so striking. You can really get a feel of its scale and how it's floating right in the center of Now, I wanna bring everybody To my left, we have the elevator. And then space flows to And right in front of us, This bar has a very strong Brass-wrapped columns, And the screen detail that we've been seeing is also incorporated to this bar. And then we have these elegant bar stools that are leather-wrapped. And on the back, you can see recessed in TVs, mood lighting, This is a really elegant space. I love the light fixtures. And, Cody, can we take More back-lit countertops. And this brass sink is I love the thin frame. Again, you have your spirits here. This is a really nice space. And currently, on the lower level, we have the bright But obviously you can dim them a little bit more, and have the space a little Now, on the other side of the bar, we have this open seating Next to that, we have a leading us to this This is a fantastic space for you to hang out with your And it also happens to be a cigar lounge because we have a built-in specifically for this room. I also really like the giving that rustic feel. And you also have a double-sided fireplace warming up the space as well. Now, next, we're gonna where we have a door that Next to that is this really cool art piece that is situated on this solid tree trunk. We have layers of glass and they're stacked back to back to create this really Never seen a piece like this before. - [Cody] I haven't seen and it's really cool, and it - It fits the space well. It gives it a nice And lower level of this property is all about these surprises. In fact, look at this It is so modern and sleek. I love the hardware. And even your net is suede. And then you have this pattern wall design with these linear mirror insets. And continuing this way, this glass-enclosed section But before we go in there, I actually wanna talk about a detail. In the gym, we have this structural steel column. And on the back, you can and information about the because they wanted to leave this structural element exposed, which I thought was a And in fact, Cody, let's go this way. We have the wellness center there that we're gonna check out in a second. But first, let's see this gym. This is a really nice, intimate space, and we have so much equipment here. Your stationary bike, Pilates reformer. There's also a powder bathroom And then you have more gym equipment here, your dumbbells, TVs, wood-paneled walls. This is an InBody570, which is a body composition analyzer. You can measure muscle, within your body, which is super cool. And then behind, Cody, with LED lighting, your punching And this is the exposed steel column that I was talking about earlier, again, giving this space Now, let's go back out so we can check out the wellness center, which is absolutely incredible. But before we go in there, I We saw this tree in the family room. And this was the tree that fell over from the neighbor's property and turned into this really cool feature. Essentially, they wrapped this dead tree with real and full plants and created this colorful, interactive, I'm gonna say art piece. And it looks crazy. It compliments this area so well. Never seen anything like it. - [Cody] I haven't either. And it really just to preserving nature. Instead of just throwing this tree away, he made it into an art piece. - Without a doubt. I mean, who looks at a massive dead tree, and they're like, &quot;I'm gonna preserve it. I'm gonna turn it into to compliment a home that I'm designing.&quot; - [Cody] Exactly, it's really cool. - It's super cool. And then we have this glass door leading us to the wellness center. Please, come on in. I don't think I've ever seen I mean, where do I begin with the details? Look at the ceiling treatment We have rain heads, indoor pool, steps taking you to the other side, misters, interactive digital screens, beautiful, natural stone slabs mood lighting throughout. I mean, there are so many Just look at how you're being welcomed to this wellness center. It is just so cool. We have this flagstone And then these steps take In fact, Cody, let's go this way. Same mosaic tile that They also have it here. And then your natural Behind that, you can see And again, we have misters, rain heads, shower heads, built-in benches. And you can actually go all where we have a covered If you want, you can because we have motorized And I'm just in awe. The fact that a space like is incredible. Now, Cody, why don't we take because we have a few other sections. You can also see the lounging beds here. And on the other side, we have which is a really nice touch. Next to that, we have a massage room. And I wanna specifically go in here because Ardie and his team setting the mood, setting the energy for each one of these spaces. When you walk into this room, You have scents, you have padded walls. It just has a nice softer feel with these two massage tables. And it's just a sensory experience to walk around this property and interact with each Now, next, we're gonna go this way. I'm actually gonna take these steps here. We have a glass door that Next to that is your open walk-in shower with a steam feature. The book-matching in there is stunning. And then you have the This is unbelievable. Again, I have never seen a spa, a wellness center like this before. But when you look at this property, analyze its features and details, it doesn't come with a surprise that it has a space like this. Now, I wanna take everybody so we can continue our tour Now we have a gallery space here that takes you all the way to the garage. But before we go there, I actually wanna take everybody this way, to the landing of the movie theater. To my left, we have a popcorn And to my right, we have They call this piece &quot;Clockwork.&quot; And you basically have and a digital image of this girl who is trying to avoid this hammer, which is so cool and different. - [Cody] It really is. It's a really cool juxtaposition between physical and digital art. Like, the girl is basically a hologram, but the hammer is physical. So when it passes through, And it's a really cool right in front of the movie theater. - Absolutely. It captivates your attention. You just wanna look at - [Cody] Yep. - And it's just a nice touch In fact, let's go in. Without a doubt, one of within this property. We have a four-tier seating movie theater with a Dolby Atmos surround sound. And, Cody, can we get a closeup? We have cup holders that Then you have your USB chargers. Obviously, these are so they're super comfortable. And check this out. I wanna show everybody on a movie setting. There we go. It is so immersive. We have a massive screen And I'm gonna turn the lights back on so we can tour the rest of the room. Again, you have your four-tier seating so you can enjoy the space I love the volume and how taper towards the screen so it pulls your attention And then on the lower level, we have this more casual So you can use this space And in fact, a few days ago, one of the flight scenes from &quot;Top Gun.&quot; (jet rumbling) (apprehensive music) (jet roaring) And it was sensational. The bass, sound effects, visuals, it was just phenomenal. I mean, you have a real - [Cody] It was insane. The bass you could feel And like you said, you have There's no reason to leave. - There is absolutely no reason to leave. And yeah, lower level is And we have this fantastic space here. Now, let's go back to the gallery so we can continue our tour. The gallery space here features this really nice seating area, all these portraits, art lighting. And all the furnishings and comes as part of the offering. I know I've been so passionate trying to cover every and detail in this house, but obviously the way it's It compliments the overall That's why I wanted to mention that. Now, to my right, we have this I love the entry frame. And these doors were I love all the details. And as we open 'em up, it leads us to this where we can store up to 3,000 bottles. It's also temperature-controlled. Nice and cool in here. And check this out. The bottles that we have in They are harvested in Pacific Palisades, bottled in Napa, and they're not for sale. So you either have to be friends or you have to be their which I thought was a nice, clever touch. And obviously, it fills And then we have this rustic Now, let's go back to the gallery space. Next up, we have this lounge area. Sectional couch, solid wood And this is the section that we talked about off of the foyer because we have the ceiling all the way to the main level, so you get great natural light. You can hear the water features, benefit from the natural air And we have more digital art here. I feel like these art or these areas, so much more interactive. It's fascinating to look at. It's just so interesting. - [Cody] It really is. We also had one of these So it's a theme around the entire house, and it's just very, very unique. - And also one in the massage room. - [Cody] Yes. - They have it throughout the property. And yeah, you have an Now, next, I'm gonna keep as we still have so many Foosball table. And then we have a glass Sliding glass door here We have two seating areas here. I love this rustic rug And then, on the other side, we have a massive screen It's just a great spot relax, watch something here. And on the other side of this This level is perfect for entertainment. You have your piano around There's also a powder room And you may be wondering why we have so many of these seating and entertainment sections here. And we'll explain that Now follow me this way so we can check out this exquisite garage. I know we talked about this The same driveway that also arrives to this section. In fact, behind the curtains This is a great space. You can easily park I love the mood lighting throughout. And to my right, we have this stunning black Mercedes SLS. Iconic car. And I believe, I forgot to mention, when we were on the motor court, we also had a really And then to our right, we I cannot believe the fact and it still looks so beautiful, especially with the lighting here. And, Cody, I'm gonna open up the door so we can check out the interior. What a stunning vehicle. And it compliments the space so well. Now, there's actually one more detail here that I would like to cover As you all can see, we have And this garage has a With a push of a button, turn on the music. Cody, can we hit it? - [Cody] We can. - And turn this garage (upbeat music) And there you go. I think this is the best second use case for any space I've ever seen. What a great idea to turn your garage into a nice, intimate nightclub, and have all these and make the best of your lower level, and yeah, and just enjoy - I think this building, even it probably has about a hundred And we try very hard to define what the end in each one of these spaces, and build and design rather than designing and into that design. We always try to create these moments. Everywhere, there's places to sit. Everywhere, there's places to congregate. Everywhere, there's places to sit around, and have a conversation, In a very different those kind of connections provide the platform, a - You wanna almost facilitate - Well, completely. The objective is to and whatever it costs, it costs. (meditative music) Privacy and security in these particular homes. We go out of our way that very little or no part of the house And we wanna make sure This is their place. - Some would argue this is I've seen in any home, in regards to motorization aspects, in regards to technology, But behind this humble approach, you and your team managed and technical aspects of And it ties into that - Our thoughts over the how do we create these things This home has a very exquisite way of combining technologies that they're behind the scene by creating menus that you choose. It's there to serve you. And we definitely have pushed at many different levels, and My biggest expectation they're comfortable, and they're not intimidated They feel that the building (meditative music) - Now, the second floor of this property is where we have the including the primary bedroom. But before we talk about these spaces, I actually wanna bring back to the staircase. I know we talk about this but on this floor we have Now, behind the staircase, we have this steel case bi-folding door that opens up and connects to the outdoors, which I have never seen a And the fact that this vast open space opens up to the outdoors, this is crazy. - [Cody] The projection on all of the walls looks so cool. And it's just a massive door - It is a cool party trick. And I just love how you can bring nature back into the property Now, the next space I wanna cover is this open seating area Love the coffee table. This has to be the coolest chess set ever. And it's just a cozy and family to get together. And in fact, on the other side, where you can see your grand living room and those massive pivot doors to that amazing backyard. And, Cody, can we get a close up? This is a really cool art piece. It's a Vespa motorcycle by a Turkish artist. It compliments this corner really well. And next to this art piece, we have a really cool coffee station. Can we get a closeup? I feel like a kid in a candy store looking at these spaces. - But it is organized so meticulously. And it's tempting. - It really is. we have to continue our tour. Next up on the other side, we have this really cool lounge area with a double-sided fireplace You also have this massive door opening up to your grounds on the back. Love this cabinetry here. And we're gonna see pieces that I'll point out. Now follow me this way. We talked about the In fact, we have this and the door here opens of the library. I really, really like the And then we have this showcasing the landscaping that's on the backside of the property, bringing that nature And you can also see Look at all these floating accessories, books. This is such an exquisite space. And going back to the hallway, we have three guest suites on this wing, primary bedroom on the other side. That's why we're gonna flow this way and continue our tour with I really like how cozy this room is. We have the same white plank king-sized bed. And every little detail in this room is so well-thought-out, between the sheets, And then we have the sliding glass doors opening up to this balcony, where you can see your motor court. And also really like how they tucked behind the bed, And also, with a push of a button, you can close your sliding glass doors and truly seal off this which is a really nice touch. And not to mention, we also This is definitely a very cozy space. Now, behind Cody, we And then around the corner, coming back to the entry of this room, we have this glass door The natural stone used in We have marble countertops, brass fixtures, details. And even more importantly, when Ardie and his team for the people who are they think of everything, and the things they may need How cool is this? - [Cody] It's so smart the entire experience right - This is beautiful. And then look at this marble with a brass tub filler, You have amazing views. Super private. And then on the other side, we have this glass-enclosed And look at the details here. They use the same marble We have the shower unit, shampoo niche. This is a beautiful walk-in shower. Now, let's go back to so we can go to the other side. We have two more bedroom suites here that are pretty similar to each other. So we will tour the one As soon as we walk in, the first detail that catches how it frames the view on the outside and brings the landscaping We also have this seamless transition to the outdoor balcony. We have some nice planters here. And we talked about these blinds earlier. They have it throughout the property. And right now, we have 50% open, so you can still see the view, but control the light that comes in. Or with a push of a button, and provide additional privacy. You can open 'em back up again. It allows you to control the natural light that comes into the room. And when you're done, they can simply tuck and open up this space to Now, going back into the room, we have the fireplace Obviously these bedroom We have this really cool curved wall that opens up to your bathroom. And just like the other guest suites, we have a king-sized blackout curtains, again And this is just a fantastic You have a desk around the corner, individual temperature controlled settings for each one of these suites. And when you're ready, you to your bathroom. Same white plank hardwood Then we have this freestanding tub that's carved out of marble. The opening that I just That way, from your tub, you And then around the corner, we have this glass-enclosed walk-in shower that is great sized. It's marble clad throughout And then we have the water closet here. Two details I would like to cover. Number one, do not And then we have the glass enclosure here that's frosted on the lower to allow natural light Next to that, we have the vanity. They use the same natural with brass light accessories, toiletries, candles. And lastly, we have another that opens up to your walk-in closet. And this space has the shoe built-in cabinetry, your drawers, pretty much everything you need. Gorgeous guest suite. But now, I want to take so we can check out the right wing, where we have the pajama lounge and the entire primary bedroom suite, which is gonna take us a Now, welcome to this cozy space. This is a room that's very the way it's designed and its purpose. Around the corner, we have all these open shelves, And it is a room for families to gather, for kids to hang out, have a little private, That's why there are no But we actually have a to bring some natural light. Then we have this fabric back And they also custom designed this couch to accommodate this section. And the seating here is super comfortable. I feel like this room really that we have on this level. Now, I wanna take everybody because on the other side, And the door here opens And before you walk in, you also see the biometric reader here making sure that you are the person that is supposed to be In fact, let's go inside. The entry of this room takes you to the different sections of To my right, we have the elevator landing. The door here opens up to the back section of the walk-in closet. And this walk-in closet is phenomenal. We're gonna see that later. If you go straight, you but we wanna take everybody this way so we can check out the bedroom We have the entire corner opening up, seamless transition to the outdoors, where we have the terrace Bed is anchored right in And before we cover this section, I actually wanna bring everybody this way. We got a gorgeous linear fireplace here with a natural stone surround Now, it may seem interesting on the backside of the bed, but when you understand the it makes perfect sense. We have the built-in seating here that can easily turn into a daybed. Now you have the fireplace to compliment your experience. It's like having a campfire. And to take that experience furthermore, you can also open up this that is above us. In fact, Cody, let's hit it. Now you're truly immersing and you can simply look up and have a room that is Isn't this insane? - [Cody] Everyone always dreams of being able to see but in this bedroom, - It is actually possible, not to mention we also have blackout if you wanted to, and obviously you can And now we actually wanna so we can check out the custom bed. Obviously the built-in seating on the back really helps this bed to be anchored to the center of the room, between your sheets, pillows, bedside tables that are floating. It looks very exquisite. And let's not forget That's why they have a pop-up TV here. But if you want take it a step further, we have a dropdown screen that's above us, your surround sound, blackouts. And just like the other bedroom suites, the blackout shades come so it's not obstructing any of your views. You can just simply have this space open, flowing to the outdoors. In fact, I actually wanna so we can check out this cozy seating area for the primary bedroom. Floating fireplace with an open corner. Love this antique cabinet. And this section is also and it flows to this outdoor terrace. Now, to my left, we have a And this is the section that and the wellness center, where And this is technically the skylight that is above that opening. Now, continuing this way, we This is a great size outdoor terrace with multiple different You can look down to your grounds, enjoy the views of the city. And we have additional Just a great outdoor space. Now, I wanna take everybody this way. Just like the rest of this floor, we also have the outdoor blinds here. And, Cody, can we frame Again, this king-sized I love the fact that we have opening up this entire space. And every single detail, the overall energy is in this bedroom suite. Now, I wanna take everybody this way. We have a really exciting Behind this pocket door, we have the primary bathroom. And let me tell you, we have It's a room on its own. We have a seating area in And then you have all these features for you to indulge yourself in. Now, to my right, we have taking advantage of this corner. And we also have the And with a push of a button, and have the ultimate privacy In fact, the next space is the walk-in shower. And the moment you turn on these blinds automatically close to provide you that privacy. You don't even have to think about it, which is a nice synchronization that's planned into the home automation. Now this shower truly has it all. We have handheld, steam your shampoo niche, which is this really your regular shower head, and then we have two rain heads above us. And if that's not enough for you, there's also glass door here opening up to an outdoor shower. But my favorite detail within the shower are these stone benches bringing that organic natural element into the walk-in shower as well. And obviously, the size here is fantastic. Now, Cody, let's take everybody because I wanna quickly We have two glass-enclosed water closets. And the first closet is actually situated on this side. Let's go right in. Gorgeous island that's stone-clad with back-lighting. And this is where we have And the rest of the room with glass fronts, so you can in these spaces. Built-in LED lighting, thin frame doors. And this is a fantastic closet, but wait till you see the on the other side. That one is on another level. And before we leave this space, I also wanna talk about this detail. It's super fun. Look at these leather-wrapped hangers. They're so exquisite. I love good craftsmanship, and I just thought this - [Cody] Love it. - Now, let's put this hanger back here and continue our tour. We have so much more to see. Now, on the other side, we with these two columns. And on the back of the columns, they have these open Now I wanna acknowledge these columns because these are really nice and I just love the and the fabrication here. And then you step up to and we have two onyx These vanities are so elegant, timeless. And I just love the You can barely tell the lines and how the sink section was fabricated. Beautiful brass fixtures. Look at your medicine cabinet. It is fully stocked with Again, attention to detail. There's also a really And you have another vanity on the other side of this section. This is fantastic. And also, the floors here are heated. Wanted to mention that. Now, the doors behind me open up to the main closet of this bedroom, and it is absolutely stunning. Let me take everybody in. This space is a show of its own. I mean, where do I begin with the details? Look at this oversized island and the vein structure. Then we have this gorgeous light fixture, wood plank ceilings, modern I mean, this is not a walk-in closet. This is a full blown boutique, and I just love the scale here. Now, before I go into more details, Cody, can we actually - [Cody] Yep. - Remember that quaint by the upper kitchen? - It's actually right here. You just have this cool moment straight from your primary closet. And again, going back into the space, look at the cabinetry here. In fact, I'm gonna open that are suede-wrapped And obviously, the cabinetry There you go. And the overall scale of the space, how wide these walkways And then you look around, the how everything compliments each other, it really is an experience and utilize it. Now, you have this curved wall design that we've been seeing And they placed these that are lined with And it's just a great place You have the LED lighting. What a closet. - [Cody] It really is. And it's crazy that this closet almost rivals some of the that you would see in - I was gonna say, I feel like - [Cody] Exactly. And you have that in the which is really incredible. - Yes. And then, when you're ready, it's like a little seating nook. You have a three-sided mirror that I'm gonna show in a second. But first, I wanna take because we have a really cool surprise. There's an additional closet here that actually opens up And they call this space It's a great area for you that you're currently wearing that you may not be actively So it can create a nice And I mean, who doesn't want more storage and cabinetry space? And on top of that, you got this gorgeous island in the center with this stunning stone, Now, let's walk back in because we gotta talk about I must admit, it's been because there are so many different areas and features to cover. And I wanna do justice, obviously. And then you have a three-sided You get to see yourself from And when you're done, you And, Cody, let's continue our tour because we have more to see. Welcome to the glam room. I know, this is really exciting. I mean, what a fantastic space for you to try some clothes on, get ready for your day or your night. And it's designed really efficiently where you have some open shelving here where you can hang your clothes. The cabinetry looks stunning. And then on the other side, And I must say, this the cabinetry, it is stunning. And then you have your gorgeous light fixture above. There's even a hair washing station here. But before we go into the why don't I take everybody so we can take a look This is that little Juliet balcony that we've been seeing It just gives you this really cool view straight from your primary And I'm gonna quickly close the doors here and continue to the next section. I mean, how nice that your glam room comes with a hair washing station as well. This is where you can have And going this way, we also have a really I love Arya Group's enthusiasm, their attention to detail and curating each one of these I mean, look at the coffee bar here. You have your open shelf, glasswares, LED lighting, the moody feel. And I love how they filled with coffee pods, all I mean, this looks very and I just love it. I mean, even their Nespresso This is fantastic. And in case you're wondering where the door behind me opens up, this actually takes you that we toured earlier. And lastly, if you open up this door, you arrive back to the entry Full circle. Now I'm gonna open up the elevator here because the next space is really exciting. It is the rooftop deck. And without a doubt, it's one of the most within this property. (rhythmic music) Welcome to the top floor of this property, where we have an amazing rooftop deck. But before we go outside, some of the details here at the landing. We have a glass roof above And the same curved lines that we've been seeing is also featured here. And I really like the That's wood panel. Then on the back you can see bringing additional light to the landing. And what makes this space so fun is the fact that we have opening up this enclosed I mean, the span is fantastic. These doors are all steel frame, custom-designed for this property, and it opens up this landing area to this over 12,000 square which is absolutely phenomenal. And we're gonna see so moments for you to enjoy. Now, the first space is the dance floor. And the floor design here is which makes your experience Now, above us, you can see with a motorized awning. That way, you can bring to this space if you need to. Now, we have this elevated and there's a nice with a fire pit. And the views you get from We have the Bel-Air Country all this greenery and And within the top floor, we still have over 12,000 It's so impressive. In fact, Cody, follow me this way so we can check out the left Now, we have the first I'm gonna keep our tour Elevated section here lounging beds, seating area on the back, and beautiful olive tree Then on the back, we with a gas grill, pizza oven, bar seating. And this is your outdoor dining area. They also brought the water And then you have a motorized awning here. They call these sunshade sails. And with a push of a button, and bring additional light if you need to. And we also have a space Now follow me this way. We have more built-in And at night, these trees And then you have another This same feature pool This is the outdoor seating area that we talked about And we still have so much more to see. Now, on this level, there I'm gonna quickly skip them so And the same theme where we have multiple different areas, moments for you to enjoy. Another outdoor lounging And I really like these built-in planters, bringing additional life And then we have this elevated section with this antique glass enclosure. Ardie and his team took the enclosed it, so they cozy, quaint seating area. And California nights can get cold, so it's nice to have a space And how cool is this space? You would never assume a moment like this would exist on a rooftop, And that's what makes You have so many different and experiences throughout. Now, Cody, why don't you stay there so we can continue our tour because you have a fantastic perspective. Another outdoor screen. Then we have a really nice bar area here with additional seating. And around the corner, we have a full bathroom And then on the other side, we have another spacious I mean, there are so many fire And then you step up to this section where we have the shallow pool I really like the design of this jacuzzi, how it sits above the surface. And then we have another that are motorized. And to complement the you have this water feature, which might be a little bit loud on our microphones right now. You have the rocks, to the shallow pool, how I mean, what an incredible within the rooftop of your home. And if that wasn't enough, I actually wanna take And we have different areas First, you get this cozy I really like how they with some landscaping. And then going this way, you cold plunge, sauna. But before we check out the sauna, I wanna actually bring everybody this way. We have an Endless Pool here. This pool was designed by Michael Phelps. And you have built-in swim-against jets. That way, you can train here. And then you have the I mean, it's incredible. This home, within every single provides you a feature or an experience unlike any other property I've ever seen. It's quite impressive. And lastly, we have the outdoor sauna. Now, I'm gonna open up the door here because this sauna gets phenomenal And look how cozy this space is. You have a sauna within your rooftop. Amazing. Now, I love the intentionality how every single room, every single space is curated to perfection, curated And it's been an honor touring a property that was designed by Ardie and his team. I mean, seeing how every seeing how you interact with this property has been an experience. And there's only one and that is to see how throughout the night. (meditative music) - When the sun starts going down, there's this really starts to happen. (dramatic music) It's the time that all the amazing colors start showing up in the sky. (dramatic music continues) Night is about, again, contrast, duality between light and dark. We look at essentially the lighting as a very important element. And we're able to play in a way that works with (dramatic music continues) And the warmth of the fire, the warmth of the light I think it's magical. (majestic music) (majestic music continues) (meditative music) - How do you feel now that it's all done and you're seeing the end result, you're walking around and how does it make you feel? - I have a sort of mixed feeling. One is that, okay, what else can we do to make it even better? The other one is that one day will come that it's no longer belongs to us. It belongs to someone else. - It's a bit bittersweet. - Definitely bittersweet. I feel that this building And that identity is very personal. It's about individuality. It's about something for no good reason. It just does. (majestic music) I am so fortunate to have the privilege of doing what I love to do. This is a journey. It's not an outcome. It's not a destination. And every day, I want to And that's what drives me, that gives me a sense of purpose, and that's what makes these (majestic music continues) (wind howling) - All right, everyone, Hope you'll enjoy this episode. It's been an incredible and sharing it with all of you. Without a doubt one of the We've enjoyed every minute we spent here. And for that, I wanna give a and his team at Arya Group Now, you can find more in the description of this video. Make sure to check it out. And lastly, if you enjoyed our tour, give us a like, subscribe. And we'll see you on the next one. (calm music)