Alright here we are, the book of Jude, part 2. We're going to cover verses 17 all the So let's do a little bit of review, shall we? What we've learned so far. First of all in the salutation Jude, the early brother of James and Jesus, &quot;the called out,&quot; &quot;the beloved of God,&quot; And he recognizes the high regard and value of the church, which is God's most valuable creation. When you think about it, God's created a billion stars and the church is worth more to Him There is a great value we see Jude placing on the church in God's eyes. And of course he refers to the and no other organism, no other unit, has God sacrificed in order to save. Stars flame out and God doesn't stop that. in order to save man's soul. Then he talks about the danger, verses 3 and 4. He was going to write a general type of epistle, a general epistle on encouraging the brothers to remain faithful. But instead, he chose to write about a certain There was a form of gnostic teaching. Gnostic, from gnosis, which means knowledge. A form of gnostic teaching that promoted the idea that the body and the spirit were actually separate, so that what was done in one did not affect the other. And, as I mentioned in our last lesson, it led to, among other things, immoral would think that whatever they did in the body There were two major (or main) 1. It would give excuse to sin without guilt or fear and this would lead to an immoral lifestyle. Let's face it sinners like sin. The flesh is easily drawn to sin. And what holds an unsaved person back which causes guilt and threatens punishment and so on and so forth. And what holds the saved back from sin is the power of grace working in our lives, moving us to obey God out of love So if there is no connection between then the unsaved will give themselves may be seduced into returning to the leading them to condemnation in the first place. Think about it, if Eve, who had no sin at all could be seduced into sin, then imagine Christians can be seduced into rather easily because we are sinners. Eve was created perfect. She had no sin in her. seduced into disobeying God. So imagine us, if that happened to her, imagine us. Our flesh is full of sin. If we see no consequence in it, And then the other danger of this doctrine, the saving work of Jesus Christ on the cross. If there's no connection between the body then what Jesus did in His body The cross is for nothing. So by providing this teaching they were denying And of course this is the danger If there is no connection between the body Then the offering up of Jesus' body pays for sins because no one is condemned. So His cross was for nothing. So this is why in verse 3 he tells them (the Christians) to maintain the faith, or the set of teachings concerning Jesus and His Word already given to them by the Apostles or additional teaching. We're to stick the same gospel as was taught to them many years ago. And then he talks about dangerous men in verses 5 to 16. So after summarizing the danger, Jude warns his readers that those who disobey God will be punished, no matter who they are. And he gives examples of those The nation of Israel was punished The angels were punished for disobeying in the spiritual world, and even the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah were He describes how these false teachers operate. - They have immoral behavior. - They use false spirituality. One reason that he compares is that their attitude was proud. And they saw themselves as superior to the Apostles Jude reasons that if God punished His own when they disobeyed, He could and He will punish No matter how highly they thought of themselves. And then he finishes he review by comparing that destroy or waterless clouds that promise fruitless trees and so on. And he says of time such people never escape the and they will not escape in And so in the final section that we're Jude will explain to his readers A lesson that applies not only to that congregation (those people) but certainly applies to us today in the modern world as well. So how do you avoid the danger? But you, beloved, ought to remember the words that were spoken beforehand by the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ, that they were saying to you, "In the last time there will be mockers, following after their own ungodly lusts." These are the ones who cause divisions, The first thing he says to them is Heed the warnings of your teachers. Here he is saying, Jesus' Apostles warned of Paul warned the elders in Acts 20, And Peter warned in II Peter 3, again the leaders. There was a warning given to the church, to be on guard against this type of thing. Then he goes on to say in verses 20 and 21, But you, beloved, building yourselves up on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting anxiously for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to eternal life. So what does he say? How do you protect against false Well, heed the warning of your teachers and build yourself up spiritually. How? He mentions through prayer and through and by persevering in waiting for the Lord. Be assured that the Lord will come You know, false teachers and false teaching sometimes it's just laziness, sometimes through the church and there is no one to check Usually when the brethren are making an effort to love one another. Usually when there is a strong prayer life in a congregation bad ideas (false teachings) don't get very far. It's when a When a congregation becomes lazy spiritually. When there starts to be division in the church that's a congregation that becomes ripe for attack. Whether it's done inadvertently or on purpose the church that is not pre-warned, they are the ones that become And then he goes on to say in verses 22 and 23, And have mercy on some, who are doubting; save others, snatching them out of the fire; hating even the garment polluted by the flesh. So, what's the message here? How do you avoid the danger? 1. Heed the warning 3. Help those who are weak Weak in wha t? Because if the church was strong in the faith the one doctrine that he talked about, of the Word, strong in the idea of preserving In any congregation, there are those so he says &quot;help those who are weak in the faith.&quot; and supporting them and so on and so forth. And try to bring those who are being But there is the warning, &quot;don't get to close Some people say, &quot;well you know I go to bars and and the publicans.&quot; Yes, Jesus to the sinners and publicans for what reason? To teach them. To bring them to the understanding But He didn't hang around with them to share that we're not hanging around with people to encourage them to be faithful So there is danger, obviously, but you can and for others as well. So we read in verse 24 and 25 how he Now to Him who is able to keep and to make you stand in the presence to the only God our Savior, be glory, majesty, dominion and authority, before all time and now and forever. Amen.&quot; So that's doxology. A doxology And Jude ends his letter with praise for God He hasn't been talking about that subject. and how wonderful Jesus is and the wonderful He has been talking about trouble in the church, warning to the brethren to be That's what he has been talking about &quot;boom&quot; - this expression of praise. A sudden burst of praise and glory to God. So what's he saying in this doxology? to keep us from stumbling. In order words, from And He does this by providing His Word In the modern church we have the same thing, We have the same strength given to us. living within us and we also have (the Apostles We have the Elders that are leading us that are teaching us the Word, helping us to helping us to pass that body of doctrine helping us to take that, learn it today and pass it on to our children, to the next generation. So this is how God is helping us today and he he praises God for His work Without Christ we come before God simply as condemned sinners. That's our status. But Jesus sheds His blood and brings us into God's presence as people who are forgiven. As people who are holy. There is no fear for us to come before God over us, right? We've been found holy, we've been found acceptable, why? Because our sins are forgiven, not because we're not guilty of sin, And so He brings us in this state to Jesus can do this thing. Jude says that Jesus, who accomplishes this, and God the Father who offers it, deserve glory, deserve praise, and They we acknowledge of Them. They deserve dominion, rulership. They are God. They are in charge. And we're in submission to Them. They're the ones that will do the judgment And we will accept Their judgment. And They deserve all of these things, right? and so on an so forth, They've always had it and That is the sense of his praise, He closes with the word &quot;Amen&quot; ('let it be so', 'this is the way it should be') So Jude points out the false teachers, he reveals and then he encourages the saints to continue faithfully following the teachings given to them by the Apostles. And he says if they do, they will receive the false teachers will receive the So basically, in some form, that's pretty much So in closing this brief series, I'd want to appeals to his readers to follow the set body of doctrine that was already present and distributed throughout the church and considered "authoritative" by the Apostles and the church leaders at that time. In other words, all the information about Christ, all the teaching about the church, everything we needed to know about salvation and God and the future and the return of Christ, etc. all of that has already been given, it's already contained. There's no new information. There was no new information. At that end of the at the end of the writing of the New Testament, has decided to give us about Himself, Jude's appeal in this letter was to hold on to that standard of teaching which Even today, 2,000 years later, we in the churches of Christ hold to this idea that the entire body of basic doctrine concerning Christianity was recorded and preserved in the 1st century. We know they gathered them together in book form several centuries later, but the actual production of it was complete back then. This is why we emphasize the idea that our task in teaching the Scriptures is not to change, add, or subtract from this body of doctrine but rather it is to: 1. Understand. That's our job. Our job is not to change this. We study to understand precisely what the writers were saying to their readers, the 1st century church. This is why there is emphasis on the meaning of the original languages and context of what was being said. We want to understand in English in our day what was being said in Hebrew and Greek thousands of years ago. And we can. It's not beyond us. There are some religious groups that promote the idea that Bible is too complicated, an ordinary person can't [understand it] Paul never said that we could. Paul said to Timothy (in II Timothy 3:15), he says to Timothy, &quot;From an early age you have known the Holy Writings which are able to make you wise unto salvation.&quot; What was Paul saying? He was saying as a young person you already knew what the Scripture (what the Bible) was saying Scriptures, led you to what? To Salvation? too young to read the Bible. You as an individual, As an ordinary person you couldn't understand He says from an early age You knew. You were taught and you understood. So if Timothy, young man back then, could understand, we can understand today. And our job, today, our task in the is to understand what the Scriptures mean. We want to understand. That's why there is such an emphasis in the &quot;Churches of Christ&quot; on Bible Teaching. We have Bible class on Sunday mornings. a sermon. We have an evening service where We have usually a mid-week service And we have retreats, seminars, lectureships and so on. All of these things are based on the idea more perfectly what the Scriptures are teaching. And then secondly: Once we have understood in context the teaching of Scripture, we want to apply accurately what was being taught then (to those people) we want to be able to bring that and make a proper application to ourselves in our own lives today. The Scriptures were given by but it requires some effort to make sure that we apply correctly today the instructions and concepts communicated several thousand years ago. It's possible. We just have to understand the context (the point that was being made) Like in Jude, is there anything that Jude was saying that can't be applied today? Right? 1. Watch out for false teaching. 2. False teachers better be careful cause they will be judged. Is there anything there that we can't do today? No. We can be careful of false teachers. We can do that. We can try to understand the Scriptures. We can do that. We can hang on to the body of teaching. We can do that. There is nothing in Jude, that Jude was saying to the church at that time which cannot be applied today in the same way in our church today some 1000s of years ago. The Scriptures were given by God for people of every age including this one. However, once we do grasp the meaning, we want to obey the things God has given us in His word. In Matthew 28 for example, Jesus said: baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you; and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.&quot; Is there anything there that we cannot obey today? They went into all the world. Preach the gospel. They preached the gospel. To who? To all the nations. OK. Make disciples How? By baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit. Can we do that today? Sure, water is water. The name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, right? And then what does he say? Teaching them to do what? Teaching them to obey. Yes. All the things He has commanded and taught. Sure, we can do that today. See what I'm saying? We understand the context so that we properly grasp what the point it. The spirit of the thing. And then we apply it to our situation today. And the third things that we try to do. 3. Pass it on. Once we have understood and begun to apply these things in our lives as Christians, we begin not only teaching others this "body of doctrine," we also teach them to pass on this cycle of learning, obeying, passing on to the next generation. Again, Paul says in II Timothy 2:2: &quot;The things which you have heard from me entrust these to faithful men Short form: Whatever I've taught you from the Word, you understand and you obey and then teach others. And you also teach others to pass it on Can we do today? Absolutely. As a matter of fact, the whole BibleTalk.tv To accurately teach the Scriptures in such a way where the information is preserved and can be easily passed on, one to This is why we have training classes. why we take a long time to select elders and preachers, teachers and deacons. Why? Because they must be ones who are able not only to understand and themselves put into practice; they must also be able to instill in others the desire and ability to pass this treasure (the Word) on to the next generation. Our congregation here has been in existence for over 75 years. Now whether or not we continue to exist for another 10 or 100 years, will not depend on getting just more people to attend this building. Or to expand this building. Our future depends on whether or not we can teach the church to understand God's Word, to obey God's Word, to preserve and That's our goal. And that's the goal that's been given to us by the Bible. That's not something that the elders came up with Somebody said, &quot;you know what would be a good idea, that we kind of teach the church, and we try to give them the information that's in the Bible, and you know I have a good idea! Why don't we just make sure that they pass that along to the next generation.&quot; That idea (that command) is in the Scriptures The idea that there's one body of doctrine is not something we came up with. That's not a &quot;Church of Christ&quot; thing. That's what Jude says. And so we in the modern era, we try to understand, we try to obey, and then we try to find ways to preserve and to pass on to the next generation, the teachings that were given to us. pass it to the next generation and so on and so forth. So my hope for us here listening to this class. Those hearing it on video or in book form. My hope and my prayer is that you will be found faithful if the Lord comes during our lifetime. And if not, I pray that our children will be faithful on to them the teachings of Christ and the body of doctrine that Jude talks about and that they in turn will understand it, obey it, pass on to the next generation. If we do that, we have done what God has asked us to do in this particular field of endeavor. That's the end of our short 2-lesson series on the Book of Jude. I appreciate your attention. I pray that God bless you in your study of God's Word. Thank you.