News of the Chinese Long March 5 rocket burning up on re-entry has made waves through the world- in some cases, quite literally, as the debris from the rocket burned up over Saudi Arabia and splashed down in the Indian Ocean near the Maldives. And while it made a lot of people very nervous to know a 22 ton rocket was going to fall out the sky, this sort of thing happens all the time. Boosters, dead satellites, and sometimes even old space stations get dropped out of the sky fairly often. While the litter seems a little inconsiderate, leaving junk in orbit. Just last month a hole was found in a robotic arm on the international space station - punctured clean through by a fast-moving piece of shrapnel. The accumulation of space junk poses a huge risk to all human operations in space especially if we cross the threshold into the chain reaction of exponentially growing collisions known as Kessler Syndrome. The launch of Sputnik in 1957 kicked off a space has grown ever since, and in recent There are more than 3300 operational satellites But they aren't alone. They orbit in the midst of a giant cloud of old broken satellites and more, around 10,000 objects that are large enough to be tracked by radar. They are uncontrolled and they are moving The quickest low-altitude orbits circle the A collision with one of these means instant And speaking of shards, there may be over 100 million pieces of debris so small they can't be tracked And while a loose screw or paint chip may not be all that scary on earth, at orbital speeds of 7 km/s they can carry as much energy as a cannonball. Right now there are probably over 3 million our operational satellites and nearby natural meteoroids combined. - forming a giant space-tornado of death above our heads. The main thing protecting satellites from Space is, as the name implies, spacious, and so collisions are relatively rare, or at least for the moment they're rare. But as the number of satellites increases, And collisions produce more space junk that produces more collisions. This sort of collision cascade is known as who pointed out the danger in 1978. The movie Gravity depicted this domino-chain of destruction as unfolding over minutes to hours. That's not how it would actually play out. In fact the Kessler Syndrome is already playing out - albeit a lot more slowly. But it may soon speed up. To understand the risk we face, let's think The Kessler Syndrome is due to what we call a positive feedback cycle - that's any process whose outcome tends to increase the rate of the process, leading to exponential increase. The more space junk we have, the more space junk we make. But a positive feedback process can be prevented from entering that exponential mode if it's suppressed in some way. In the case of satellite collisions, exponential increase is inevitable unless debris is removed from orbit or the risk of collision is mitigated. And that needs to happen faster and better Let's talk about mitigation first. Large pieces of space junk can be tracked optical and lidar methods. And their future trajectories can be calculated to predict possible future collisions. A functional satellite in harm's way can then steer itself into a safe orbit. The international space station has to dodge tracked space junk roughly once a year. But this method is far from perfect. Below around 1000 km, Earth's atmosphere is incredibly diffuse but still present. It produces a drag that causes orbits to slowly decay. That's ultimately a good thing, as I'll But it also means we can lose track of space junk because the amount of drag can change - in particular, during times of high solar activity when more energy is pumped into the atmosphere, causing it to puff up and cause increased drag to higher altitudes. The smaller the space junk the more susceptible it is to atmospheric drag. That gives us a sweet spot for 'lethal' of 1 to 10 cm are the hardest to track, and And yet are still large enough to cause 'lethal' collisions- the kind that can obliterate a satellite if they hit right in the main body. And there are something like half a million around up there. Improved tracking facilities can help here - better, faster observations will help us survive this game of cosmic dodgeball a little longer. But tracking only goes so far. Junk smaller than around a centimeter can't be tracked at all - your paint flecks and rocket exhaust and shards from prior collisions. The only way this stuff gets cleaned up is I already mentioned that orbits decay due atmosphere. Below around 1000 km, that drag slows satellites, causing them to fall into lower orbits where the drag is even greater. This is another positive feedback loop - orbital decay accelerates until the satellite finally burns in a glorious blaze of re-entry. Satellites in low earth orbit may need to inspiral. During a maximum of solar activity when our atmosphere extends further out, the lowest satellites need to be boosted every 2-3 weeks. That's annoying, but orbital decay is the orbit of defunct satellites and debris. Ultimately, the Kessler Syndrome can be avoided if orbital decay cleans up low-earth orbit faster than new launches and new collisions fill it. OK, let's look a bit harder at the sources have any hope of saving us. Over 40% of the catalogued space junk is debris from the upper stages of a handful of US rockets that exploded after releasing their payloads. These plus few other catastrophic events are responsible for most of the fragmentary space junk. Notably we have the 2009 collision between the Iridium 33 communication satellite and Kosmos 2251, a deactivated Soviet military satellite. With a collision velocity of 11.6km/s, it of fragments large enough to destroy other cause damage or deactivate satellites. Relatively few events have produced as much of our most dangerous space junk. For example, we have the times that nations deliberately destroyed their own satellites. The US did this in 1985 with an air-to-space missile, and China demonstrated their capability in 2007 with a ground-launched "kinetic The US followed a year later with operation of reentry of a tank of toxic hydrazine - and very bad. But the timing after the Chinese launch does make you wonder. The issue with destroying satellites is that as the progenitor satellite. They quickly smear out in a ring around the much more difficult. John Gabbard, who was working at NORAD tracking missile test debris in 1960, noticed that debris also spreads out up and down. This increases the altitude range of the risk, and can also mean that collisions in fast-decaying orbits can still generate long-lasting debris. So bringing this all together we can paint a picture of our trashed orbital space. Each collision tends to populate a wide swath of low-earth-orbit with dangerous debris. That debris then decays in orbit. Very slowly for the highest orbits, quite But those lowest orbits are continuously repopulated as debris rains down from higher up. For example, even though the International below where the Iridium-Kosmos collision happened, on multiple occasions it's had to perform collision avoidance maneuvers to avoid debris that's sinking through its orbit. As long as the self-cleaning of the lowest orbits outpaces the introduction of new debris, we avoid exponential buildup. But these lowest orbits are the most useful most densely populated. Add to that the rain of debris from above, Syndrome. So how long until the collision cascade? Actually, it's already happening. More debris is produced than is removed. Exponential buildup doesn't have to happen over the course of a 90 minute Hollywood movie to be dangerous. In 1978, Donald Kessler estimated that the some time in the next two to three decades, which was pretty spot on with the Iridium-Kosmos destruction just over a decade ago. But the time to the next collision should now, although thankfully none as cataclysmic as the first. We're currently in the slow part of the of useful space ahead of us. But that can change if we change our launching habits for the worse. This is where StarLink deserves a mention. SpaceX plans to launch constellation of over This will increase the number of satellites Now SpaceX insists that they have collision mitigation systems planned, even if they haven't told us exactly what those are. But even the best collision dodger can't shard of debris. One hit can turn your agile, debris-dodging debris. I should add that StarLink will be in very 5 years. That might be enough to mitigate the dangers in this case. But StarLink isn't going to be the last it's sure to inspire other companies and Presumably, at some point, some of them without the same care that SpaceX claims to be taking. OK, let's take the worst case scenario. The Kessler syndrome accelerates, churning up low earth orbit into a cloud of shrapnel. What comes next? Some sci-fi writers like to present Kessler space blender, effectively imprisoning us That's a bit dramatic. The danger is for objects spending any lengthy period of time in those zones. For a rocket passing straight through on its way to higher obits, or to more distant parts, the risk will probably will be tolerablely low. Higher orbits, like medium earth orbit where the GPS satellites live, will probably also be okay due to the relative low density up Still, there are rocket boosters left over could be destroyed in collisions in low earth orbit, creating a train of debris that wreaks havoc higher up. But the real risk is for anything trying to At the late stages of the Kessler Syndrome, be largely unusable - at least for a while. At the very least, the cost of maintaining expensive with satellite lifetimes dropping drastically. We'll have to curb our appetite for global years while we wait for the junk field to After about a decade, very low earth orbit Or we could start taking more care right now. It's possible to plan to deorbit booster into safer graveyard orbits. And all sorts of new technology are being sails which increase drag and cause trash which push on earth's magnetic field to The key will be better organization and cooperation between nations and between companies to maintain our cosmic front yard, and continue our safe use of Earth's orbital space time. This show would be much, much harder to do without the help of the Space Time community on Patreon. Don't worry, we'll keep doing this no to the Patreon crew - you guys really help And today's extra-extra-special shoutout us at the big bang level. Tiffany, we've used your contributions to junk problem. Our plan is to de-orbit all of the smaller house, where they'll burn up on reentry of your awesomeness. Obviously we can't do that for the bigger stuff because that'll hit the ground, so please let us know where you'd like us to deliver, i mean de-orbit all of that. Last episode was on Planck Relics, those subatomic scale black holes that could be literally everywhere and even explain dark matter. Let's see what you guys had to say. Matt Kelly asks what happens to normal matter when it interacts with one of these tiny black holes. Well first of all, Planck relics would be like empty space to them. Give them any velocity at all and they stream right through matter as though it isn't there. The gravitational interaction is weak except right next to the relic - on the scale of Planck lenfths. If you could somehow get an elementary particle like an electron within that range then perhaps it would be absorbed and the relic would start to grow. The problem then is that the black hole will Planck relic. That will happen long before the next particle is likely to hit it. So Planck relics will stay Planck relics unless you can force feed them at an enormous rate. Johanna Mueller never realized that the Planck mass is such a huge thing. I know right? Two hundredths of a milligram is giant compared to the 1.6x10^-35 meters of the Planck length or the 5x10^-44 seconds of the Planck time. But the planck mass defines the mass of a black hole one Planck length in radius, and remember, black holes are massive! Bleedingleaderq asked whether a region dense in Planck relics would emit high-energy radiation as the relics merged and then Hawking-radiated again This is the sort of extremely cool thought that astrophysicists love because it's something we can look for Unfortunately these suckers are so small that they would never, ever merge - even if they got within an atomic nucleus width apart. They'd just fly by each other. This is what makes them the perfect candidate for WIMPS - the weakly interacting massive objects that may explain dark matter. Several of you hypothesized that there being tiny black holes everywhere perfectly explains one of the most vexing paradoxes in the field of domestic mechanics - as in it explains what happened to your lost socks or screws or the money in your wallet. It's also a great excuse for why you didn't self-respecting physics professor can confidently say that a planck relic didn't eat your homework. It also explains why I don't have a funnier joke to end this episode. I swear, I wrote one down and it just vanished.