The state of Florida is under assault tonight, and the damage is likely to be catastrophic. Hurricane Ian blasted ashore today near fourth Myers on the Gulf Coast and began a slow track toward the Atlantic. It packs sustained winds of 150 miles an hour and knocked out power to more than a million homes and businesses. John Yang is in Jacksonville, Florida and begins our coverage. Early this morning, Hurricane Ian quickly escalated into a near Category five storm across Florida's Gulf Coast residents braced for a brutal impact, boarding up businesses and stocking up on supplies and gas. Bruce Henry, a longtime resident of Port Charlotte, had a message for his fellow Floridians. Panic. Usually common common sense and level head. You just do what you gotta do. Hurricane slammed on shore this afternoon north of Fort Myers, avoiding a direct hit on the much larger city of Tampa. Forecasters warned that storm surges could reach up to 18 ft. Across more than 200 miles of the Gulf Coast. The storm is expected to track across the state dumping as much as 18 inches of rain on areas like Orlando in central Florida and Jacksonville on The Atlantic Coast. E in outer bands brought flooding even before landfall. More than 2.5 million residents were revised to evacuate. Florida governor Ron DeSantis. And while most people did leave, they had a small number of people that just wanted to hunker down and at the end of the day, that's a decision they made, knowing that they had the ability to evacuate and knowing what the stakes were, Um, nevertheless, uh, safety life safety operations will commence as soon as it's safe to be able to identify people who may be in harm's way and who are need of assistance. Tampa resident Rene Correa took the warnings to heart in here. 45 years, and this is the first time I left first Storm. The water just really scared me as well as the path. It was very confusing, and I didn't want to risk it. Washington President Biden pledged federal assistance made it clear to the governor and the mayors that the federal government is ready to help in every single way possible will be there to help you clean up and rebuild to help you get Florida get moving again, and we'll be there at every step of the way. That's my absolute commitment to the people and the state of Florida. As Ian battered southwest Florida Cuba struggled to recover after the storm wiped out power across the entire island on Tuesday. Electricity was restored in some areas. But by this afternoon, much of western Cuba was still in the dark, relying on small generators informed I have no charge on my phone. I have nothing. They took away the electricity and so far it has not come back. In Florida residents haven't seen a hurricane this strong in decades. Across Florida. Shelters like this one in Jacksonville are ready for visitors stocked with water and snacks. Fans to keep things cool and cots for sleeping. Resident Brenda Kinsey and her husband, James, arrived at this shelter more than five hours before it was too open. Ever get used to the Hurricanes? No. No, they're all unpredictable. You never get used to let's say it might be this might be there, but to be honest, says everybody should come to a center. For the millions of people in the storm's path. The impact could be catastrophic and life changing. PBS news Hour. I'm John Yang and Jacksonville, Florida. For more on Hurricane Ian's trajectory and the risks ahead. Let's turn now to Jamie Rome, acting director of the National Hurricane Center in Miami. Jamie Room. Welcome back to the news hour, So let's just start with what we know. Where is the storm. Now? What do we know about its impact? And where is it headed next? You know, Ian made landfall earlier today here over southwest Florida. So to kind of orient you here is Boko, Grand Santa Belfour, Myers, Venice, Sarasota and Naples. And unfortunately, the early reports that we've gotten which are limited are the devastating storm surge that we predicted did in fact unfold. And tell me a little bit more about that storm surge. Who is seeing it now? How long do you expect it to last? So we're hearing so Naples here, which was sort of on the edge of the eye wall. We've got a lot of reports of significant storm surge that pushed several miles inland. They're probably not out of the woods yet, but they've probably sort of hit the top here And now this area is a Santa Bell and Fort Myers so you can almost envision where the strongest winds are still pushing, pushing towards land. They're probably still rising and still expected to experience the worst in the next coming hours. And when you say significant storm surge, what are we talking We've seen. We haven't seen reports up here in Fort Myers and Sanibel yet, which would have probably gotten the worst surge based off the forecast, but based off what we've seen from Naples devastating storm surge Even your well removed from the center, so that probably means that it's going to be worse here in Fort Myers once the sun comes up tomorrow, so we know there's been a lot of focus on that western coast of Florida. What can you tell us about what folks should anticipate seeing in the hours ahead further inland or even on the East Coast? Yeah, That's a great question and let me shift square. She screens here. I'm sorry. So as a center moves inland, um you can see that. Let's get to it. Center moves inland, it will sweep across the central portion of the state. Right here and now we got red as hurricane warnings. Blue is tropical storm warning, so you can see this large area of tropical storm force winds impacting almost the entire state of Florida and then moving off an impacting Georgia and coastal South Carolina. So I mean, this is going to be a big event, not just for Florida but also Georgia and South Carolina in the coming days. Could anything change the storms? Trajectory? Now? I mean, is there any chance that ends up weakening or moving faster, not causing the level of damage? Some are predicting, you know, I think the cake is largely baked on this one in a sense that it is going to impact Central Florida tonight and tomorrow we are going to have historic rainfall and flooding over central Florida. And then it's going to emerge out into the Gulf of, um, sorry. The Atlanta Sick and turned back into the Southeast. I would say the only uncertainty left is in this phase of the forecast whether or not it could regenerate as it moves back over water. We're keeping all the folks in Florida in our thoughts, of course. Jamie Rome acting director of the National Hurricane Center in Miami,