Imagine there's a feather falling down in front of to grab that feather so bad. And so you reach out, but you miss it, and it swishes away. And now you And as you're running after this feather, it because you are pushing it away with the force if you just let that feather fall, and you and you trust that gravity is going to lead That's what the law of detachment is. The law of manifestation and the law of attraction because about their desire and their goal, and they end away from them, that push their desire further in the universe that shouldn't be there, such as into chasing mode, and that's the exact opposite Law of attraction runs on trust--trust in yourself of higher power, and in this case, gravity--trust you. So in this video, we're going to talk about how releasing the how is actually the ultimate but how to balance that with taking inspired Also, if I come off looking kind it's because I am. I have horrible cramps right is one of my favorite topics. Releasing the can do. Law of detachment is a crucial get this video out and make this for you guys So this is what I'm figuring out. I hope it I'm squished in the corner with my knees up facsimile of pressure on my abdomen. So that's What does it mean to detach? The law of detachment want what they want, and they obsess about it, is not gonna get you what you want. I frequently nothing, get everything,&quot; and I don't think that Detaching does not mean not wanting it. You're a good thing that you want things because it means And I do believe in a higher power, and I believe in our lives in order to guide us on a path. &quot;don't want it&quot;--that's not going to serve you. Law of detachment is about releasing the also wholeheartedly believing that they're releasing frantic feelings. It's about not feeling want is just an extension of who you're meant and you know that you have the tools, and you This desire you have is not going to make you of feeling whatever feeling you need to in desire. What the desire will do is lead you in the of you fulfilling your ultimate desires in the of becoming your higher self. That's what your higher self, but in order to get obsessed feeling that you have about to release it is because you could be The way you deal with this obsessive, is to have faith that it's already on you had faith because you understood how a matter of time--that feather was going to had to move your hand over ever so slightly to was going to land in your hand no matter what. In my original video on manifestation, I did not that because I didn't really want to preach to I can't tell you what to believe. But it is an law of attraction requires trust that there is a can think of this force however you want. You the universe. It could be a deceased loved one spiritual if you don't believe in that. It could shifts and patterns. It could be trusting your to what you need. It could be in a self-fulfilling Even if you're not spiritual, I believe you can there guiding you through this world. It could be But there has to be trust. You have to believe That's why Lucky Girl Syndrome was years ago. It was basically a reframing I'm so lucky. Everything always works out So how do you actually detach? How do you thing that you want? Remember that you are to want the thing. Don't be obsessed about the in the end, whatever it is you want is a means you stop obsessing over what you want is to is where the practice of visualization comes into A very popular thought experiment is: let's say right now. You truly, wholeheartedly believe that on anything you want. How would you feel? How would you think? What would you do? You wouldn't pay rent this month. You wouldn't be walking to decline. You would feel at peace. You would to have enough to cover all of your needs. You and you think, &quot;I wish I could have I can have that if I want it. Huh.&quot; right? Like, &quot;Oh, I can treat myself. That And the trick is to embody that feeling and that's where a lot of the manifestation doing scripting, where you write down a day like your dream life or whatever, the yourself to feel as if you live that Before I continue, let me just quickly and I'm on a journey to becoming the most have been learning a lot over my lifetime, and create a community on here. So if that's something self-development content--please consider so I know you exist. And thank you so much A crucial step in attracting rather than chasing out how your manifestations will come to you. your higher power's job. It is not your job. action. It's about going with the flow. You don't Hyper-focusing on the how will backfire on you create forces that push what you want further away If you're constantly thinking, &quot;How will out?&quot; you're introducing doubt into this runs on trust. If you don't truly believe you want is going to happen--you are going to and you are going to sabotage it. Overanalyzing specific steps that you're going something is going to come to fruition can make timing, and that's going to introduce friction make your manifestation flow less natural. So Your subconscious handles the how. Once and you truly believe that they're on their way and your higher power is going to take over, is going to lead you to what you want. That's why or effortless. It's because their subconscious without them doing anything, towards the Even if you can't see the process unfolding will find the easiest way. The universe to getting you what you want. That's why attracting what you want to you with When you try to micromanage the how, you're to force it. You might be creating like the feather. Remember the Your only job is to focus on the end result. Focus on what it is you want. Imagine you already have to embody it, and then you allow inspired &quot;What's she talking about?&quot; So how does it actually happen if I'm is a frustrating part for me, and this is in a lot of ways. And I know it. I see it. you have to do things in your life in have 100,000 subscribers on YouTube. I need I believe this term, the &quot;bridge of incidents,&quot; the godfathers of law of attraction. And series of events that unfolds naturally in life. to play out, but once you have impressed your it's all going to unfold in front of And I know that's so frustrating to hear to keep track of my planners. I want a know a 50,000-foot view of everything ever beginning. I want to know everything because affect my own change in life, and I want Your subconscious is what tells you what Inspired action is instinct. It's going It's doing things that make sense to with what you want. They're decisions that and you really have to trust yourself and If you're truly embodying the your instincts are going to be aligned with if you have an example of a bridge of incidents did something so random end up happening for you? When I started in 2016 at a big company, I was these contract positions is that you cannot be knew that I was going to have to find a new job I started looking for a new job because and I spoke to a recruiter about a potential That was 2016. It didn't pan out back Fast forward to 2018. I am looking for a job at on a whim, reach out to this recruiter and say, We had coffee in 2016.&quot; And she's like, &quot;Oh my &quot;Yes, I'm hiring for three different positions. in.&quot; I interviewed for all three positions still my job today, almost six years later. bridge of incidents. I just had the instinct, the and lo and behold, there you go. It was a very at that point in the job search, and it wasn't getting me anywhere. It was just to say I did something that day. Writing that one Some other examples of inspired action could of people believe in angel numbers or have or whatever it is that remind them of things &quot;Oh, I'm on the right track.&quot; So pay I never remember my dreams, but a lot dreams or your nightmares, pay attention to to tell you something. I think writing Sometimes you feel inspired to read a a YouTube video, and that will lead life. You were inspired to gain that and that led you to an outcome that you You may feel inspired to change up your routine. street, but you want to try a different one, life. Who knows? Go with it. Like, &quot;What? Reaching out for help is also an inspired The last thing I want to touch on is balancing you have to do things when you don't feel of thumb that I follow is: discipline What do I mean by that? There are basic things your teeth and get through it because you are child in us that's like, &quot;I don't want to I don't want to get up,&quot; or &quot;I don't want to you have to go do those things. and sometimes you just need to be When it comes to creativity and creation, space for inspired action. For example, one video a week on this YouTube channel, and and I've realized that my resistance to making the I ask myself, &quot;Okay, what is your resistance Am I afraid of failing? Am I afraid I why am I fearful of sitting down and doing this I probably need discipline. I But if I'm not resistant because of fear, if I'm have the answer for this YouTube video yet. I don't think this is going to be the best video the drawing board, and I sit down. I'm like, I need to think about this more. Maybe I need that is not technically related to making the through what I want to say in the video.&quot; That is And knowing the difference is the hardest part if I'm like, &quot;Is this an inspired action, or &quot;Will I regret this decision in the future?&quot; I'm not feeling well, all that stuff. But I have and I really need to stay on it, and if I'm and it will not serve me. Like, I don't think to a different outcome in the future. and then it'll be okay. It's just going to be It's all about being in alignment with yourself for you, even if you're not feeling super even if there are sirens going on outside you know what's best for you. Deep down, you do, I'm gonna call it there, guys. Thank you it. I cannot tell you how amazing it's been of your comments. Please leave them. Please future videos. I'm keeping a list, and