Edward Hopper's world was New York and he He understood that even though you may live in it is still possible to feel entirely alone. Just weeks after the bombing of Pearl That's not to say the war was a direct influence, surely infused the painting. Afraid of air raid in public spaces. Streets emptied out, [Newsreel] &quot;The route was past miles of tenements, giving all the tenement dwellers got in return, was a Edward Hopper took the elevated El-train to work couldn't sell a painting. He hated his job as His paintings were pretty much ignored by critics. But hopper was convinced of his talent, and even work three days a week. Hopper's voice: &quot;Illustration really didn't to make some money that's all&quot;. The rest of the He spent his entire adult life in New York City. Most of it Eventually his wife Jo would move in. it was explosive, at times violent and extremely other for days, and spent much of their marriage in and unhappy couples he portrays time and again space, but inhabit different worlds. Then in 1924 promptly gave up his illustration, and He married Jo in 1924 the same year he got his married, and they would stay together for 43 successful artist, and it was her who introduced one of his paintings and launched his career. a fact he never thanked her for. Jo Hopper: &quot;it seems to me In fact Edward, a gloomy and silent figure would denigrating his wife and her artistic talents. She was possessive and jealous and refused She was the model for every single one of his paintings, Their unhappy marriage almost certainly who seem emotionally unresolved. In Hopper's touching or displaying any affection. do not interact with each other. They are Jo and Edward Hopper loved the theatre a scene on an illuminated stage, as if His compositions were often influenced by set cropping and angles we see in cinema. With Hopper's Finding the right subject matter crippled him of research, preparation, and mostly sketching. but he would have done many more. Hopper would use and then relied on his subconscious to refine We know from Jo's notes on the painting, that she posed He dismissed his years spent illustrating picked up, it also helped to hone his storytelling director. Storyboarding the painting ahead of its the distance of the couple, the clothes. Then he worked out the angle of the diner's window, Hopper uses strong diagonal lines for the diner, outside the painting. But also lead the eye to the look at first, the clever use of perspective, pulls He uses colour to achieve this too. Darker tones of the bright yellow interior. Causing our gaze to outside the diner and what details there are, are an otherwise deserted store. We see an ad above the This is a world shut down. The large window, not the characters, but also emphasises the silence The characters are trapped, like specimens feature in so many of Hopper's works. And we are grouped with the &quot;American realist painters&quot;, he The ideas of one artist in particular Gustav discussed. His works often feature the window Hopper's loose brush work, his use of saturated Like the Impressionists, Hopper was obsessed by &quot;Cafe terrace at Nigh&quot;t by Vincent van Gogh Hopper saw and admired. Both scenes are lit by In hopper's diner, the light source is neon which gives it an eerie glow, like a beacon on melancholic and enhances the emotional content Hopper often portrayed a specific time of day in time of anxiety for him, from early on in his career. there just isn't one - to go in or out - the diner is at bay. We can only stare in from the outside. What really interested Hopper was emotions to the lives of people, he'd seen in offices and in restaurants and apartments. usual with Hopper, there is no sign of conversa tion He specialised in these open-ended narratives, in completing the story. He plays with This unrelated image, painted two years before But there is still a sense of foreboding. A feeling Couples and their lack of emotional interaction, increase as he got older and his relationship with yet psychologically miles apart. Are they even a but they are not. Her coffee cup is steaming, his is a while for her. The title of the painting came from Jo, who described this character He is holding an unlit cigarette, which in The isolation of the solitary man with his back shows us that he is holding a glass with his right The front page, no doubt full of news of Maybe it's for us? Along with everyone or even making eye contact with anyone Ever since he painted Nighthawks, people have tried Following hints the artist People spent months trudging around New diner never was in New York. It was always in Hopper was a fan of Ernest Hemingway's short an inspiration for Nighthawks. It tells the story next victim. The classic 1946 movie version, The quintessentially American artist loved cinema, loved Hopper. He often went to the cinema Film-noir was a primary influence and we can film-noir, released one year before he completed &quot;Force of Evil&quot;, the director took the cinematographer and said, that he wanted the picture to look his early works, may have been influenced by When it comes to the filmmakers themselves, Hopper A new generation of filmmakers would pay his American settings of anonymous apartments and decentralized framing. But in particular, they Characters, waiting for their stories to recreated for the movies. With the diner Nighthawks, like the best movie, is not just about a single frame can suggest to us a narrative, Hopper: &quot;It's probably a reflection of my own - I may Edward Hopper captures a world of loneliness, an immediate success, was bought by the Art Hopper, the quiet man of American painting, a complicated and troubled man. He was an and grappled with meaning. His works took months about five paintings a year. Sometimes less. At six foot five, he was an exceptionally tall man, A fact that certainly contributed to his Painfully shy, he was a loner from an early age. This continued into adulthood, and he was deeply When he married Jo, it would seem But as many people discover, you can be in Hopper's paintings demonstrate to us, that these of isolation are commonplace. Ironically his