(electronic music) - [Falcon] 'Tis the that can bring us all Screw peace on earth, I want savings. Good for all men. Nay, gamers, just gamers. Thank you. Hi, folks, it's Falcon, today on Gameranx, Black Friday Gaming Deals for 2024. You know the story though at this point. We're doing deals but on North America sales right now. Mostly US-based, and things So certain deals I might mention here may be sold out by the time you find it. Stuff can change really suddenly. Issues can happen, it's annoying. It's just part of the game though. And just so you're aware, we are not sponsored on any of this. We're not given any We're not trying to sell you on anything that doesn't actually This is just a holiday shopping guide by a bird on the internet. So enough preamble, First thing we're talking They are brutally overpriced regularly, but there's a pretty decent sale going on over at QVC actually. You can get a PS5 Now there is a discount and you have to get a new I don't use QVC for anything. I highly doubt a lot of you do, so just open a new account, get the code, and save on a PS5 controller if that's something you're buying. If that doesn't work, there It's not quite as solid but decent. On Amazon, currently, you can So it's $54. Not quite as good as a QVC Speaking of Amazon, they've got some pretty These things have been in the past few years, so they're a lot more They're also handy, or a PS5 and need more storage, just don't get one of Those require proprietary storage. So it's just a waste of unless you also have the other things. Anyway, this Amazon-sold SSD is the cheapest I could It's only $119 for two terabytes. Two terabytes. The only downside is the brand. It's not one of the big ones, but it does have a decent If you want an external SSD that's got a better rating go with the Samsung two terabyte. It's a little more expensive at 139, but that's 20 bucks more, and and best-rated SSD I've seen, and it's still got a pretty Now, as far as the Xbox external SSDs, they're super overpriced in general, but they're finally starting to get some decent discounts, like this WD_Black officially licensed one is currently selling Granted it's only one terabyte, it's still one of the better prices I've seen on an officially And if you're in the market for one, now is the right time to get I know I got a lot of but they're honestly out there right now. If you're looking for an internal PS5 Pro, Amazon's got a great deal on it. They have, again, WD_Black one terabyte. It's only 85 bucks for the PS5. That's a 34% discount, And if you're willing to you can get a two terabyte at The Nintendo Switch is a and even though the system it's still got a massive library of games, and Nintendo were still Honestly, I love the Switch. I'm gonna continue to love the Switch even when the Switch 2 comes out. In fact, Switch 2's probably so, eh, anyways, out of all for the system this year, well, like the buy that is the best one. The standard bundle is marked down at 225. That's 75 bucks off the regular price, and the OLED models Pretty good. Target is matching price on the OLED too. So if it gets sold out at Best Buy, that's probably the way to go. Another console getting is the PS5 Slim on Amazon. It's not incredible, I'm not gonna lie, it's only 15% off, but when the original was just basically near impossible to get less than a thousand bucks. I guess we have to count our blessings even when they're small. If you're in a handheld PC gaming, probably one of the is the ASUS ROG Ally. I don't know how to and the more time like I know how to say them. But I do know how to find a good deal. It's a nice beefy handheld, That's about 19% off the which is a pretty solid discount when you're getting up Another solid handhold is the much more pronounceable which is $200 off on Newegg for $500. Now, that's a little but also, Lenovo are one PC builders out there. And any discount on a Lenovo thing, it's good 'cause they're and this is easily one of the best offers you can get on Legion Go. If handhelds are too much to The Amazon Fire TV stick which is on sale on and off on Amazon, can be gotten for $75. The deal is a little spotty. Sometimes it's up, sometimes it's not. But if you wanna dip your it's the best deal I've seen. I do have one of these and You get a free month of So you're pretty much set. Keep an eye on this one. It is up and down, and I we've seen it up and down. Now, most of the PlayStation aren't anything to get too excited about, but there is one decent that's a 30% discount off a 12-month PlayStation plus premium subscription. It's currently $112, which And you get all these premium extras that you may not necessarily want, but if you are interested this is about as good of a discount as you're gonna get ever. Now, along with the the other major PlayStation deal I have seen thus far is the PS VR2. It's not exactly setting the world on fire in terms of sales, but if you're into VR. It's comfortable and in terms of how it feels. It works very well. Normally, it sells for 550, but it's currently on sale So near 40%, it's a 30% off discount. That's pretty damn good. But if you're into PCVR more so, there is a very good deal going on for the Meta Quest 3D, It's 299, which isn't a great deal, but you also get &quot;Batman:Arkham Shadow,&quot; a three month trial of Meta Quest+, and a $75 gift voucher for Target's doing it and so is Amazon. So spending that 75 bucks Those are actually pretty good stores to have 75 bucks of free money at. Now, the next deal is not I just wanted to highlight currently running 'cause it's awesome. It's a sci-fi shooters game bundle, and for just 19 bucks, you the &quot;Star Wars Dark Forces Remaster,&quot; crisis one, two, and three, the Arcane Classic Prey They're all great games and but who really cares? If you don't have some of 'em on PC, this is an amazing bargain. Hell, if you have one or it's an amazing bargain. And if you're playing a bunch of games, you gotta worry about that setup, and no setup is complete without a hideous oversized gamer chair. And Corsair has come to the rescue with an actually pretty They're sold out at various retailers, but you can still get this It's a $70 discount, it's still not cheap, but at $180, it's a lot better and that's actually a pretty good chair. Speaking of setups, how about a gaming PC? Everyone wants one, and there are some decent For example, this Yeyian GeForce RTX 4080 with an Intel i7, 32 gigabytes It's on sale for 1899 on Newegg, which is pretty impressive for that spec. It's prebuilt, so you'll probably wanna do a little customizing when you get it. A new power supply, maybe maybe a better SSD. But for this price, that's And with the extended remember to send it back if you run any problems like at all. That is the golden rule of prebuilts. When in doubt, send it back. So enough hardware, let's In general, actual game discounts that are exclusively Black Not a whole lot to get excited about, but there are a few standouts, like &quot;Final Fantasy Rebirth&quot; has gone for 40 bucks on Amazon, which is the lowest price Dragon's Dogma 2 has a similar discount. It's 40 bucks on Amazon, and the slightly more Not bad. This is another historic Now, this isn't the best price on Tears of the Kingdom of all Multiple places are You can get it at Walmart, Target, or Best Buy all for that same price. So it's one deal that should Armored Core VI, which is not Elden ring, but depending on who you It's definitely cheap. It's only 20 bucks right You can get it at GameStop And I will tell you, as the person who did it's absolutely worth it. 20 bucks, come on. Another game I wanna highlight which is on sale, 50% off on Amazon, Best Buy, and GameStop. Fantastic tactical RPG. Easily one of the best games of the year. Don't pass it up. And I got one last game for you. &quot;Like A Dragon Infinite Wealth,&quot; it's selling on Amazon for just $24. That's 64% off a game that I mean, more than worth It's a massive game. It's really good, really fun. I love the hell out of it. So $24, I can't help but recommend. If you've been following deals lately, you probably have noticed at Best Buy for microSD cards. Well, I'm not talking about that 'cause they pulled those deals, but Amazon has a pretty okay follow up with a 256 gigabyte It's 22 bucks, which is not nearly as good as the Best Buy deals, but It's not pricing error good, but it's a good price And I know this isn't exactly the target demographic but one of the better offers is they're doing a buy one, get one 50% off deal on stuffed animals. So if you've got kids or a girlfriend or somebody that you might buy gifts for or you just happen to like no judgment, this is the There's some funny stuff, there's a sonic ice cream bar It's a little expensive but if you gotta have it or you wanna make someone's I don't really know. There's no price too or, depending on who Have you ever seen these grid displays? They're these mounted displays and they're on sale for They're not cheap, like this is selling for 179 bucks. The Game Boy one is similarly priced, but they are really cool or maybe if you're a total I don't know, it's not cheap, but they do make for a great gift. And these are probably the And I'm gonna end it off They're usually the best The games tend to be but on Black Friday, you can Black Friday 24 to save an extra 10%. Now, they do sell what but every time I order, the The boxes look brand new, and the codes and the packing material, You're essentially buying And with the extra 10%, one of these, it's gonna be one of the best gaming deals you're gonna get this year. The code only works once per account, so you have to buy everything I've been using GameFly to buy and I've never run into so easily the best and they are usually above what I would consider used quality. So also keep that in mind. It's a great deal, and I hope these end up working out for you guys. We obviously wanna save And with that in mind, for you this Black Friday. Let us know what you think. Leave us a comment. If you like this video, click Like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand new videos Best way to see 'em first so click Subscribe. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. You can follow me on Twitter and book me on cameo @FalconTheHero. We'll see you next time