We're gonna look at 6 weird apps and After that, I'll share 3 takeaways that you Basically, how you can make money Of course, 'weird' is subjective. We all know at least one person But they're the human So 'weird' for me might be Monday night' for you. Just means you're a weirdo, When I say these apps are If you'd pitched me just the idea as your technical co-founder, I would have said Oh, I'm terribly sorry but I'm fully Then as you turn around I'd whisper. It's the equivalent of people back in the Now who's laughing? Not me. I didn't believe in Bitcoin either - let's get to the first app. Maybe it's a cultural thing, but bachelorette People usually splurge on the So I was pretty shocked when a US-based bachelor and bachelorette party How it works is they let you plan, set up, pay for, and split the bill for a crazy It's easier to see the full scope where they've got all sorts of party book experiences from 19 different Not only is Batch earning great monthly revenue, I did a quick Google and they The starter story article saying their users held 40,000 parties in a month. I mean, partying is not weird. But it's weird to me that Maybe it's just the introvert in me. Next one. This one is like a complete And it's 100% cultural because it's I'm talking about Betterhalf.ai, an AI-powered for urban Indians, wish to 'take the charge' of finding a life As far back as 2021, Betterhalf was and as I read about it, I According to this article, traditional Indian need to get the families involved At the same time, dating apps like Tinder looks - and that's helpful for hookups, So Betterhalf uses AI to predict match users language, salary, community, partner I using an app to get married is just bizarre, but USD8.5 million last year. This one isn't just weird, but I think it would have been a good entry for my video on Weird and boring is usually not a good combo. But I'll make an exception for From it's homepage, it uses Generate spreadsheet formulas and code Analyze spreadsheet content and provide And it does this all within a Microsoft So you don't have to go back and forth between And David says his model has had some I found a Reddit post that claims it's made but the link it cites is not working. But an indiehackers piece which was posted in September 2023 reports it's made over Because the app has very little overhead costs, And the best part is that I know I give Bubble a hard time, and I absolutely but I have nothing but love for anyone Next. When we die and meet God, some people I just want to ask how the hell the Cause it works really well. But what kind of galaxy brain They're a geocoding app that divides And each square is named with a That's a What3Words address. And app users can use this address to pinpoint deliver and pick up parcels, save memorable spots 10 million downloads on Play Store alone! If you're a normal user this app and map are And what3words makes their money from API Licensing: what3words charges their own platforms, like Google Maps. ride-hailing apps, courier companies, and to convert addresses into GPS coordinates. charges a small fee per transaction when into GPS coordinates. Larger businesses that require thousands It's a cool, nerdy kind of weird, once It's not yet profitable, but has been on an upward slope since launching in 2015 from You're not building this on Bubble. Yesss I got to shit on them. Next. A list of weird apps making lots of money wouldn't Because there's just so many. So I went eeny meeny money mo, Launched in 2012, Draw Something Pictionary where Two players take turns after which their partner guesses The person drawing will always have a choice The words given are random, and the harder Everything from whatever the hell this Why is it weird, you ask? Draw Something was reportedly making six figures But what is certain is that the app was ultimately acquired the same year it was All these mobile games man. They come, But not before turning their Ok, last entry. Let me do some preemptive damage control. When my scriptwriter pitched it to me, I was like, No way I'm talking about that. But he was like, I was like He was like, I was like, And he goes, I think he's forgotten whose channel this is.. But he's got a point.. Everything else on this list is weird, This last one is weird. The hide in the corner and sniff your The last entry is. To me, Mr Skin defines, and personifies. Weird solution to weird problem for weird people. And this kind of weird will get me So I'm going to exercise some creative Or just pause this video, google it, delete Mr. Skin is a database of curated scenes from I don't think we show any screenshots - Imagine if you wanted to watch a TV show. But not for the plot. Or the character development. Or the cinematography.. You just want the watermelons. The jigglypuffs.. That sweet sweet phospolipid bilayer. With Mr Skin, you skip right to them Da milk jugs. Those hakuna matatas. I'm sorry, my scriptwriter is 8 years old. I don't find it weird that people But I heard from a friend that there's an And I heard from this same friend So I find it weird and fascinating I don't want to see just any watermelons. I want THEEESE watermelons. And I'll pay for it. Mr Skin started in 1999, and even as far back as 2007 it was In a 2014 interview with Entrepreneur, they Which gives me an idea. Guys. Subscribe? 1. Embrace the Weird You can test out niche and odd and Especially when it caters to cultures and Apps like Batch and Betterhalf.ai One helps you plan crazy one-time party and You can find success by addressing preferences that might seem unusual to 2. Diverse Monetization Strategies What3Words identified multiplied So just because you're already doing can't explore white labelling, some premium Nothing should come in the way of your user line you'd have to cross to mess it up. Draw Something gained huge popularity and The idea is to provide a simple resonates with an audience, without And, the less complicated your app or SaaS using a no-code app builder like David And the thing about no-code app builders So it can get pretty hard IF you want to go down this route, I recommend I rank 19 no code web app builders to help you Please subscribe and leave a like, will be enough to afford a Mr Skin subscription. Now let's find you a no code app builder.