I'm too thirsty. I want you to help me to drink cold water. Monty must travel further and further Even myself, This time, He was forced to make My car has stopped, Now, if you see me carrying it's petrol. Monty is a farmer. He has 1000 liters of water of his old pickup truck for his cattle. Once again, Do you see how it's clean? No grazing. Not even leaves. No grass. No water. Nothing. It's the first time We have a problem. That's why I'm feeling tired, The farmer is determined to find water. He travels back and forth between his farm but the country's resources are drying up I have to have 10 liters so it costs me 100 dollars per day. One hundred dollars per day! The riverbed can be seen from a distance, The river water has gone down. It's dry, and it's finished. This waterhole is all that remains The water has disappeared, in the first place. Over the last five years, has been subject to severe drought. The seasonal flooding no longer provides enough water Wild animals are left without food, Travelers do that. Elephants are just there, The elephants are ready to mate. Traveling the desert by car This old sand bushman is already regretting it. I hope that we will set off again soon, This rope is made from elk skin. I want to use this rope to tie this. A difficult journey awaits from the major highways, It's extremely hot. It's unbearable. The blazing sun It's dead out here. If you don't go into the lake, It's a battle between you and the fish. In Botswana, but no one is giving up Chidi works for a company as a janitor. He goes home every other weekend. Nineteen kilometers stand between him It's not far, to get home. Accidents are common on this road, to put Chidi at ease. It's bouncing around a lot! Yes, it's annoying. You mustn't go too fast! We want to get there fast. We're going too slow. We're making too many stops. That's why we're not getting anywhere! If I go too fast, we'll crash. Yes, the car would get smashed to pieces. The road is poorly maintained. The wrecked cars strewn across the side This road was built by the devil. It keeps going up and down. Yes, and it's like that the whole way. Does that not break your dampers? Yes, it ruins them! Everything gives out eventually. Chidi gets out after five kilometers. He can't afford to cross As for the rest of the journey, Chidi is not going to arrive The inhabitants of the Kalahari Desert and live wherever they wish. The Bushmen or San in Africa. In Botswana, they are banned We used to live off hunting. We respected the animals. We found ways to survive. After a hunt, we would sleep on site. Sometimes lions would find us, and the lions would devour We were free to do whatever we wanted. Today, Sakari and his wife The San Bushmen were banished that the government discovered it hid one in the world. The government built this house for me. The problem is that it's very hot inside. My hut is much better because it's cool. I've lost my culture. The recently opened bar Sakari can't bear to see young people Behave like responsible adults and stop drinking alcohol. Why drink so young? Why smoke at your age? Explain why! The old hunter knows that alcohol the memory of their people. In order to keep their culture alive, are urging young people The couple is taking their nephew, for the first time. We want to stop where we came from. We want to retrace our roots. The culture and we want to teach this culture There's just one small setback, that stand between them is not kind to old I lived there when I was young. I went to school there. It's a long trip to go there. This road is difficult to drive on That's why it's very heavy. The car must drive with power, which overheats the vehicle. Let's see here. The engine is now overheating, If we open it a little, so let's cool it down outside. The old hunter and his wife searching for something to eat. Patience has certainly become a virtue, and they're going to need it by the looks If the San Bushmen Botswana will lose and that's not The Okavango River is unique but instead flows out It therefore makes up the Thousands of animals gather That's not the only miracle. In July, at the peak of summer, and the flooding The water brings life to the whole region. We are people of the water. To work, we need water. To build, we need water. To swim, We drink it, and so do the animals. Every living thing on earth It's the most precious thing to us. The July floods often fill Lake Ngami, Before, there was plenty of water, All of this was once part of the lake, The water went up to here. Yes, up to here. Back when the lake was full, because there was water everywhere. Since the beginning of the 20th century, The stream that fed it has evaporated, are no longer substantial to think that in 2011, and 11 kilometers wide. These days, this shrinking lake and its shores have become a death trap It's too late for this herd for several days. These five are patiently waiting However, for this cow, Mariko is going to try and save it. He's already lost several cows in the mud. If we don't keep a close eye on them, What will become of us in life? Will we still be able to keep our cows? Come on, keep pulling! Stop! She's going to get up! It's a miracle. Lake Ngami is not completely dead. Incredibly, Mariko and his brother In the middle of the mire, for thousands of catfish to survive. There are so many catfish, We do this to make money for my children. If you don't go into the lake, We must fight to eat. It's a battle between the fish and us. God has given us a lot of hard work. It's difficult and tiring My shoulders really hurt, Right now, I'm numb all over. I'm hungry and thirsty, Fishing doesn't come without its risks. Of the 100 or so hippopotamuses only two adults and a baby The others managed to reach Hippos are dangerous You can stay all day There's nothing we can do about it, It's problematic This is a hippopotamus. It died because there was nothing to eat. Also, because there was nothing to drink, so he drank this mud and died. We've caught 32 fish. Let's go. Let's push. Their work here is not yet done. Their camp is situated Lake Ngami was the source of work and food Mariko, his brother, how they're going to survive now. I cut up the fish. After, we put it in water, wash, Give me some more salt. I'll add more. You can put some here. Here, where there are gaps. Tomorrow we'll dry it. We're going to sell which will give us a small profit. However, salt is very expensive, Yes, in fact, In a matter of weeks or even days, and will mark the end Mariko does not want to accept this If it still hasn't rained, and dig under the dried mud At the gateway to the Kalahari Desert, this now dried-up river to fill these water holes. Once they have evaporated, for tankers to come In the meantime, I don't want to let them go down there. Crocodiles catch and kill them. This is not good water. It's contaminated or polluted. Dead water, this one. This is because it's stagnant water. The weakest animals can't resist it. My life is difficult without having cattle. You can see how the area looks. No grass, no grazing. We are in trouble Animals will die. They will die! The situation is very bad. We are in trouble. There is certainly a lot It didn't go straight here. It's gone out. There's too much sand, The cattle are going down here, Monti hurriedly digs away at the sand. Getting out of the car The country has one Especially in the dry season the animals converge Monti farms around 30 goats and 70 cows. This is my daily job. It's my daily work. Every now and then, The farmer does not have enough money Since the beginning of the year, This one is dying just because of hunger Up! Maybe it'll survive. I don't know. These are tanks keeping water. Yes, this is a reservoir for me. They drink 5000 liters per day. I need to go down to the river five times to make this tank full just for one day. Monti survives, on the main highway. However, there too, This is my stock, drinks, and beers. Thanks to this, I can survive! Unfortunately, customers are scarce. The problem is that so because of this drought, Thanks to income from our cows, our children could go to school, Her husband is completely exhausted, Monti tirelessly returns to the river, have got a very unpleasant surprise On his return, frolicking outside of their enclosure. Do you see this? This is from an elephant. Look down here. It's an elephant's print. An elephant came here, This stuff is for last night. These were in a crowd. You see, this stuff is still wet. It's not food that attracted these giants. Monti does not stock any food These trees stood in their way. The elephants broke down these trees. They broke these down. Elephants come and stand here, put them into the water tank, You hear it's shouting too much, Now they know That's the problem. What do you do when the elephants come? When you go out? I have a rifle. I just shoot up. Did you kill a wild animal already? I didn't kill. We are not allowed to kill, then there we can shoot it to kill it. Monti hopes he never has to do it. He relies on his do-it-yourself alarm Unfortunately, threatening his herd. Dogs are here looking after this. When the hyenas or jaguars come here, The old man has to spend his nights out It's really heavy because I'm alone. I have to fetch water from the river, come here and let the cattle, sheep, Man, I'm tired. Encounters between man and elephant The country is home making that a third of Africa's elephants. The world's largest population plays a vital role However, in these episodes so these giant creatures The farmers no longer think twice This elephant was the big boss. After I killed this one, They don't come again. The conflict between the villages is reaching an alarming level, The ever-increasing human population In Botswana, travelers are very likely and sometimes, things get nasty. These are members of an organization that campaigns with the government Today, they're visiting the scene A man has been killed by an elephant. They want to find out what has happened, is proving difficult. We're stuck, so let's push. We need to move. Otherwise, we get stuck, When I get rid of the sand, I can attach it. I think we can put a branch since it's rolling on its side. I'll tie it. We'll surround the wheel with branches. They're stuck in the sand A man passing by gives them a heads-up. Yes, the elephants come They have no choice but to come to us We are trying to go to a place where there was an incident Are there lots of elephants around here? Yes, there are loads. Even before coming here, The elephants are just there, Even though it's not safe. What you need to do is work it's going to be late. Now it's almost five o'clock, like elephants, they'll start moving. There's no help here. Sometimes you get to the elephants, and they get angry over nothing. With small things, they get angry, they don't know you or what's going on. They might charge at you We can take it, lift it, Yes, I think it will move if we lift it. We don't want to be here till late. We need to start going and set off again. Are you ready? Hey, man, push. Let's go. It's no use, but luck is on their side. Maybe with numbers, we can push it. With the help of four more men, Once back in the village, the man tells us that he was present He takes us to the place There are still elephants in the area. He was just here a few moments ago. That's the back leg, He's going in this direction. Now I am going to the place We were on the road They told us: &quot;We don't know where he is Yes, it was here. The person died here. They were crushed! The villages are being terrorized, to see their crops being destroyed. Elephant sightings in the area Yesterday, there were seven. Look, there they are! Today, there were eight of them We can't plant anything anymore. We've had to abandon our fields They can no longer be used We are starving to death. You go looking for your goat. You walk for just two minutes, you come across an elephant. It comes after you, They scare us off, They can easily trap you and kill you. You can't escape them. Poaching, lack of food and water, unsettles these large creatures. They completely lose their bearings Even on this road, Unable to afford a taxi, He's already walked six kilometers but there are The ferry that crosses the Okavango River at least as long as it doesn't break down. The ferry is very old. It dates back to 1988. This year, The propellers scrape along the bottom, to take their last breath. The boat has gone adrift. On the banks, Chidi isn't surprised. It's not the first time this has happened. The problem is that the ferry is stuck. Maybe the engine has fallen on its side. Maybe the other engine Yes. The ferry has washed up. Hours go by, and anger is brewing. What are you waiting for? We can't stay here all night! Back on dry land, a long queue is forming. At this time, I'm supposed to be back home some other jobs like fetching water You see, just because of the ferry. We can queue for almost half a day, It's an inconvenience at your job. Once again, the travelers Early the next morning, and a new one carries out the job. Chidi is happy. It could have been worse. If you have faith everything will be fine! Sadly, faith in long-held beliefs for the final eight kilometers I am going to hitchhike. There are taxis, It costs 1.8 dollars to go to Ngarange! I don't have much money. I can't afford to spend I'm waiting for a car to pick me up, It could be four or six hours However, it will all work out. They're all full up at the moment. It's extremely hot. It's unbearable. I've got a headache. I don't have any water. It's deserted out here. God knows what state I'll be in In the Kalahari Desert, the San Bushmen The old four-by-four that's taking them is constantly overheating. The driver must cool the engine However, for the old hunter, his wife, it doesn't matter how long it takes I am very happy because I am going back to the place where I buried my parents. I left such a long time ago. We were forcibly evicted Our people wanted to reclaim our land, The Bushmen were abused and beaten. Even now, we are still oppressed. The government of Botswana by stating that had become incompatible The people of the Savanna know in the discovery Today, they're confined and hunting is prohibited. Before today, we were hunter-gatherers. We used to go outside and find food. We only eat when we have money. If you don't have money, This is the case for Sakari. He still does not understand The government which quickly gets eaten. By returning to their land, the San people and they are yet After two hours on the road, no further than 35 kilometers and to make matters worse, The rope is made from the skin of an elk. We're losing the bolt. The bolt is out, The car sets off once more, have been compromised. After almost 29 hours of walking, Divorced from his wife, Hello, hello. -Yes, hi, yes. Grandma, look at what I bought. There's oil. Look at what he brought for us. I brought you sugar. You've brought us live, too. This is my son, I have two children, They came home from school, I have nothing to give them Yes. There's nothing to cook with. In a week's time, all over again Over with the San Bushmen, for the worse. The vehicle has now become weak. I've got a problem now. There's a sound coming from the engine, I hope that we'll set off again soon, so we arrive before nightfall. This time it's not a problem This breakdown is much worse. You can't find where the sound is from. The problem is the engine. I don't know what to do. The car has broken down. It can't take us to where we want to go. We have failed. There's nothing we can do. We can only head back. Everyone agrees. The four-by-four has enough power left The old hunter doesn't give up easily. The following morning, to pass on the secrets of their culture, How do you know if there are animals You have to look at the tracks. Look! A few minutes ago, Sakari is teaching him without having to hunt it down. Within just a few minutes, The San people are fighting This is not the only challenge Another battle has begun In this country, on the Okavango River, the locals struggle each day finding between each other the resources