All right this one's definitely a little about weird kids videos and gaming the if you don't have kids you quite understandably probably don't watch many YouTube videos intended for kids and when I say kids really I mean the YouTube equivalent of Teletubbies preschool audience. I bring that up first it's helpful to keep in mind that the coherent viewing decisions. Preschool watching whatever is put in front of there's a lot of content on YouTube for you would expect. pretty much any popular Peppa Pig also has a substantial argument could be made that Peppa Pig is broadcast television. there is an attendant flood of Much of it is exactly what you would couldn't find online or just re there's the YouTube-specific genres, such Nursery Rhymes; things that are more or YouTube but for kids. You know, YouTube without all the cussing. but there's also a lot that's decidedly off just something about it yeah. So you may already be familiar with media. If you delve into it now in 2017 of popular characters being run through wheels on the bus, monkeys on the bed, color and shape matching, and skits adults randomly kicking the crap out of Bridle titled &quot;something is wrong on the this subject, focusing on the generally youtuber h3h3 has done a popular video genre with adult content. has done a video on the history of the play channel Retsupuray has done a videos with titles like &quot;Mickey and Lethal Injection Mickey Mouse Clubhouse don't murder children I guess? I mean here are muddled, starting in India in rhyming video sold on cheap video CDs. with the animation companies basically but it doesn't really break into the 2014 with the proliferation of family dedicated to posting minute variants of a styles of children's videos gain into the mix. The wordless superhero new addition, exploding almost out of in popular character costumes (almost Elsa) acting out low-quality absurdist comprehensible: the material barriers to of Halloween costumes some friends and lack of dignity; and the standards for lower than average for YouTube. As with subgenres this too has metastasized animation hellscape. A lot of the this culturally disconnected history. cranked out by South Asian animation reasons, don't share the American ideoform of what acceptable children's entertainment looks like, or maybe they interplay of memetics, here where someone will make something with the express purpose of trolling people; animation for example; that will gain into the meme-body of these channels Bridal's article in particular spends a algorithmic structure of these videos: of videos all operating off the same generation, Bridal making a direct stores that place stock images on a cell phone covers. These children's test as whether they are made by min-maxing their search engine smashing elements together from a word the difference. though they were assembled by machines. For example this video titled spinner Spider Man Joker Hulk cartoon of semi-coherent, however surreal, Hulk and spider-man magical fidget the supermarket; and a bunch of Now that last one is actually repeated two segments can also be found in other also be found in this video titled colors gummy fidget spinner Joker prank and spider-man at the supermarket is the pregnant colors superhero spider-man colors for kids. The point is that the generated from a library of component from stock assets, motion capture that four-year-olds find fascinating. The metadata slurry. The animated videos are surreal originals down to unsettling outdoor playground finger family song learning video is clearly a Markov alive spider-man vs. frozen elsa baby superhero movie. One of our previous the supermarket is an eerily specific giving birth and joker attack spider-man And yeah it's wild that the stuff made you need to keep in mind that the target irrelevant beyond its function as search something troublesome about the Young children particularly preschoolers over and over and over. A kid may watch of times. As a result many of these with what would in other corners of corresponding likes and comments. This, consider that most four-year-olds can at write their own name. Now that foundation of chain-viewing you consider that it's a perfect The standards for the content are distinguish what is the product of a randomly and what is the product of patterns of kids chain watching videos easily replicated by bots, and while channels botting, it would be almost And here's where it really goes off the Ao as I've already mentioned these across multiple channels. The specific as an example shows up in videos on lyrics, cartoon rhymes, animals for kids, others. In case you're wondering if this of these channels belong to the same USR n6 h wh o kz jsq. It's case sensitive odds of them all ending up on that same channels attached to that MCN, almost all of them posting nearly identical content based off the screams minimal human interaction. The with the illusion of diversity. A single day will quickly trip YouTube spam channels uploading one video each per and recommended videos try to give you just watched, but they're also designed single channel from totally dominating a technique works around this, meaning the from many different channels while point back to the same core entity. But story. You might notice that I've examples that I've used here and there's interesting experiment that I've already videos and watch the copyright claims to a burner channel and within half an which had the attached policy of a hit with 13 separate claims. That video familiar with if you read James Bridal's and that's buried alive outdoor rhymes animation education learning that video is taken from the channel that's part of the multi channel network all of the copyright claims point to the wacked-out affiliate, and Mobiwalkers-2, with the mango kids being the overwhelming source of copyright claims. disconnect. All of these videos contain separate networks, each with a standard But the content is demonstrably networks than the claiming network, claims are either being released or compelling and I feel it's fair to say networks are in fact all the same root wacked-out, and three Huo X are all the meaning that whichever one is in fact operating at least 400 separate YouTube children's content, programmatically recommended videos. Now if you think that YouTube is unaware of this I would point out that the process of getting a management privileges through YouTube is application form, they are all handled management teams. These networks are exist purely to manipulate YouTube's Well because as long as advertisers are are coming from four-year-olds sitting value of advertising on YouTube will YouTube will continue making money. The crack down on egregious examples of bots don't like the fact that they're paying we're honest and if we use the 1980s as advertisers who are ultimately ok with and plenty of creators willing to churn Man, that's a downer ending.