(music throughout) I remember it was a Saturday morning when the first images arrived We all got up early and we downloaded these images. First we just saw black and white images. And later on, we were able to piece them And they were much more dramatic Titan was discovered in 1655 by a Dutch scientist Very famous polymath scientist. and he found Titan looking close to Saturn. He was also the first to observe And he named it Titan because it was thought to be the largest at that time, partly because of its dense It took some time before it was realized that Ganymede is actually Yeah, so Titan's a slowly rotating moon. It takes about 16 Earth days Because of that, its atmosphere overturns It's also has 30 Earth years to make One year on Titan. Don't tell Jupiter, but Saturn might be because it's so but also because it has such It has Titan, which is so strange. It's almost like an Earth, with its thick atmosphere And it's got rain and lakes and rivers, of liquid hydrocarbon, I fell in love with Titan years with the first image of Titan, around Saturn, because we were all interested that we could see We had several flybys, Pioneer and Voyager to finally get us some of the information You know, let us know that this was such My interest in Titan began in 1980, in the fall of 1980. I was but information was much more limited So I didn't really know what it took What what it was like In the early 1970s, Carl Sagan published You could not order the book on Amazon. There was no such thing I ordered it in the mail I fell in love with that book. I read that book not only to myself, but there were so many passages in that book that I was reading them out loud, My mother, my sister, my mother finally said, You're so enthralled with this book. And I thought he wouldn't answer back. But my mother insisted. And so I wrote a letter as a junior becoming an astronomer. And, not too long after and it contained a two page along with a couple of reprints of papers And Carl told me He encouraged my interest in it, to some additional correspondence until Carl passed away, We were, in fact, Good morning. I want to welcome all of you to JPL and to the beginning of what is going We're going to have to operate one that is imposed by Congress I was then a student, and the instrument, the payload on what exactly we wanted to explore. So we had, on the one hand, the NASA spacecraft And on the other hand, actually, a 300 kilos weight. So we had Huygens that was going to be inside Titan's atmosphere And we started looking at we wanted for our mission, And we looked at all the different adventure and mission that became the Cassini-Huygens The first time I saw the spacecraft without the blankets, I must have stood and it's I don't know how to describe it. It's it's it's not yours anymore. You know, even though I had been intimate with each piece and put it together to watch it come together We were without words standing out there. Every now and then we'll be working in here and you'll think, And this and this is going somewhere where And you get goosebumps from it. (radio chatter) The Air Force launch controllers Go from the range launch sequence started T-minus ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three two, one And liftoff of the Cassini spacecraft on a billion mile trek to Saturn. (radio chatter) (radio chatter) We have cleared the tower, and the Cassini spacecraft So with Cassini and Huygen's, of what the surface of Titan looks like, The Cassini orbiter orbiting Saturn using different wavelengths as well as radar was really able of some of the diversity of the surface And you're watching live coverage from the Jet Propulsion Laboratory tonight, the Cassini spacecraft with Saturn's largest This is the closest we have ever been we hope to see the best images And here on NASA's TV, just minutes Cassini was really, for 30 years Anything stand out in your mind Yeah, it's been a very strange evening. You put me against a wall and said, I really couldn't tell you. I assume that much of this is surface Cassini was a remarkable mission amazing things, discoveries So some of the most spectacular has methane lakes and seas on its surface, for example, on the Earth, with methane That's how we could discover some of the mountainous features. And where you saw some of the stuff coming to be seen there. On that surface, We knew Titan was a tough target, And so we designed this mission to hit it with We got our most close up view it would be like The moment I'm speaking, the probe is When I was waiting for Huygens to land (gasps in wonder) It's as if you're you know, it was like, oh, I hope that it And we had a little glitch that wasn't transmitting the data And with Jean-Pierre Lebreton, who was We were so anxious because for a scientist, And we start observations And then in Christmas, we launched the Huygens probe into Titan's The probe The probe team is also ready to go. So we are green for tomorrow. So let's go. I was a graduate student Titan when Huygens made its descent. I even remember, you know, What was Huygens going to find? (radio chatter) 14 minutes away he came for when we'd see the signal That's the important part. When will be acquiring signal? (radio chatter) That's right on the money (cheering) Released! because I was there when Cassini arrived You know, in 2005, It has held on and has protected the Huygens And this is the carrier signal between Huygens and Cassini. When we saw the first images on board Huygens, we saw immediately none of our predictions, had prepared us for the diversity I was there, so this was one of the most I would say, assuming that all goes I think Titan is such a fascinating world, to study it that we will remember this I was and when the data finally came it was in the form of hundreds The parachute open from the Huygens And then it was able to descend, to side under its parachute, and actually as it descended and determined some of the constituents And then it took images, especially as I got closer to the surface not only icy mountains, where there appears to be an ancient On Titan's surface. There were river channels on this cold, distant, icy moon. It was it was really dramatic. We didn't quite know what to expect. In fact, the Huygens probe was designed of surface landing. It was designed even to float But as it turned out, thought but covered in a hazy material And those channels evidently because the temperature and I remember because that was the kind of thing But it was for a while, for about an hour, who were the only human beings to have seen the surface other people started coming into the port-a-cabin and, sharing our joy. So that was really, for the very first time, the surface of an alien world So we couldn't get a good view And finally, to know what was there an active meteorology and geology, And when Huygens anded on the surface, of the surface strewn around the surface, The lakes and the mountains all of those regions and areas that remind us of what we have on Earth, but with completely different materials. And we were all like, is this Titan? Is this really Titan? Because we had imagined it for so long, as much detail as that. So that was the moment the probe came together and sent us that we first began to comprehend the complexity of Titan's system. So Titan is a really exciting place. And just because there does not mean In fact, there are many questions that we still need to answer. Some of those pertain to the chemical Does it create chemicals There's also many questions And why is it that there are lakes and not on the Southern hemisphere? There's also questions Does it harbor a vast interior could there even be a life inside So really, many outstanding mysteries. So what James Webb Space is to continue the observations JWST now, only looks at galaxies and stars, but JWST is going to get us and this kind of small bodies we need big telescopes, about the composition of the atmosphere helping so much. The giant planets, some of which turns out So this makes for a very, rich system there might be environments where life So one of the outstanding questions, is whether there are habitable solar system, in the moons of the outer close It's been wonderful to And also equally wonderful to try to figure out what it means, Okay, great. well, again, at this exciting JWST first year workshop Congratulations to the whole team. It was a work of many, many people to to help with all these integration Since I think 2016, Yeah, it seems like Everyone logged in their computers It's, almost like being back on Cassini data and it's just like, whoa, And have, you know, watching them kind of argue over things Well, I think it might be. It's it's really fun to And that's been happening So the Webb telescope, unlike the Hubble That's what we call the infrared or getting into the heat And because of those longer wavelengths, to different depths in the atmosphere And that reveals different layers So using the Webb telescope, we've seen clouds We believe convecting, seeing really fantastic detail from these processed Webb Our very first look at Titan there's this vast dune field here, called Belet, which is a hydrocarbon sand dune field on Titan's lower latitudes, And then in the northern regions here, cloud events that are really going off the lakes are located, the methane, We've also been able to use our Webb's instrument that can split apart light as being able to tell us a lot of the atmosphere that we didn't know Titan's methane actually breaking apart We've been observing Titan with Webb now We're expecting to get new observations which should reveal if there are are If the clouds are moving in the mid northern latitudes and moving we're very excited for next year such as we're seeing with the Cassini mission around, 15 years ago So it will be a really exciting time these From space with JWST, we detect new things. We find new molecules but there is absolutely nothing in my mind that would compensate or be a substitute for further exploration of Titan. After we've submitted all of the material and the review panel going to be a successful mission, associate administrator, all of To review all of the materials, And they were choosing So we were semifinalists. We found out a few days ahead of time when And I remember very distinctly and it was the Astrobiology big TVs in one of the in the largest, And everybody at the conference you know, didn't know what the answer And up on the TV, And then it was very dramatic. And the next New And the full rooms, like it felt like everybody jumped and cheering and so excited and hugging And then I get to go up on stage you know, make a little bit of a speech just talking about how excited It was like my own version As a scientist, that's but it was like, to learn that the mission was selected. So Dragonfly is the size of a Mars rover. It stands, you know, about this So, we're used to drones that are, in our backyards. Dragonfly is really a Mars rover that will be able to fly from place The atmosphere is dense. It's about 1.5 times There's a low gravity. The gravity of Earth And so that actually makes it really favorable that you get with, you know, a drone And so the mission is designed on the surface of interest. That includes the equatorial dunes, organic sand particles, where there had been liquid water But it's since frozen over. But we want to know, you know, in that location for the time But this drone idea with dragonfly, and it's going to look and other components Because the Huygens probe but this time we're landing we need What is there exactly on the surface, into the features About hopefully for its landing and figuring out how to navigate So when we get the first images back (exhales) Okay, we did it. we landed, and then I think it's And what's that? And what do we think that is? I know to expect the unexpected. I keep telling everyone on our team No matter what we plan for, we're going to get there and it's and we're going to find something that we You know, pivot But again, that's the fun of it. And that's why, you know, you want to go and you want to go and then you have to be ready