Do you feel good, Utah? (audience cheering) Nice, I love it. They ask me, &quot;what backdrop &quot;do you want?&quot; I'm like, can you make it look like my uncle's garage from 1987? So-- (audience laughing) --perfect. (audience laughing) It's good times, man. Yeah, the fact that I can reference 1987 lets you know that I'm over 40. - Yeah. - Yeah, oh, yes, some enthusiasm for that. Dude, I'm jealous of the kids today. Like, they got the internet to shame their parents into paying attention to them. (audience laughing) Yeah, something we didn't have. I realize this a couple of years ago when I was having anxiety attacks. I'm at the doctor's office, and she goes, &quot;all right.&quot; She goes, &quot;before I give you &quot;any medication,&quot; she goes, &quot;I want to know &quot;what do you take for your ADHD?&quot; I was like, this is the first time anyone's ever told me that I have that. (audience laughing) She's like, &quot;wow, anxiety and ADHD? &quot;You had to be bouncing off the walls &quot;when you were a kid. &quot;How did your parents handle that?&quot; I'm like, they hit me? (audience laughing) Which I do not condone hitting kids. Don't take-- but ADHD and anxiety, like I could not stand still, right? Like what you going to do? A time out? I can't stand still. Now, I got to go stand in the corner and look at a wall for an hour? Right? Forget that. Just smack me. Let me go run around in a yard. (audience laughing) Trying to fix ADHD and anxiety with a time out be like trying to stop someone's asthma attack by having them do jumping jacks. (audience laughing) I got nieces and nephews, and yeah, like my sister, she's changed over the years with like my niece. When my niece was eight, I got her Barbie, a Barbie for an eight-year-old girl. I thought that was nice. My sister gave me grief. She goes, a Barbie is not appropriate because she is going to grow up and expect to look like Barbie. Yeah, I think that's ridiculous because when I was a kid, I had toys. I never expected to turn into Chewbacca. (audience laughing) And besides, you need toys to be fantasy, right? You do. If they're realistic, they'd be depressing. (audience laughing) It's like &quot;hey, what do you got &quot;there? &quot;Some Transformers?&quot; The kid's like, no, I got a Steve and his cubicle. (audience laughing) He's complete with 30 grand of student loan debt, a bunch of anti-depressant medications, but he's got a bunch of staplers he can just get from a supply closet whenever he wants. (audience laughing) It's different, man. For some, everything happened, somehow Disney is skating through all this. Do you remember like Disney when we were kids? Every fairy tale was horrifying. Every one of them, Cinderella, Snow White, Sleeping Beauty, just some young girl who ends up unconscious. (audience laughing) Yeah, and then one day, some guy she doesn't know kisses her in the middle of the night. Yeah, in real life, that story ends in a court of law. (audience laughing) Yeah, a lot of ladies get upset you can't find Prince Charming. You should be thankful. Hopefully, he's in jail. (audience laughing) I don't know. One thing, I live in New York, and I'm from Cleveland, Ohio. Yeah, that's why I look like this. This is Ohio right here. (audience laughing) That is accurate, just missing a Bob Seger poster back there. (audience laughing) You're right at home. But my niece got cyber bullied. My sister told me my 14-year-old niece got cyber bullied. I asked her, I go home. I go, what happened? She goes, &quot;someone said something &quot;mean on her Instagram.&quot; I go, OK, I go, and then what? And my sister goes, &quot;um, that's it.&quot; All right, if you cannot handle someone being mean on social media, then don't go on there, right? Then don't. For two years, I had a popular web series. If it wasn't for people saying mean things, no one would have interacted with me. (audience laughing) That is the entire internet. I take it back. My video's three types of people would interact with me, cyber bullies, the people that would attack cyber bullies, and then my Aunt Judy to say that I'm handsome. (audience laughing) This is my favorite thing. After one of my videos, someone goes, &quot;hey, this guy looks &quot;like Ben Affleck &quot;if Ben Affleck had &quot;extra chromosomes.&quot; That's what they said about me. (audience laughing) I'm fine with it, but then people immediately attack this guy doing nothing but defending Ben Affleck, (audience laughing) just calling him all kinds of names. Like, hey, obviously, someone never saw Good Will Hunting. It's like, hey, how about you go back and watch some Kevin Smith films? And then my Aunt Judy chimes in. She goes, hey, everyone, Ben Affleck is very talented, but I am very proud of my handsome nephew, Raymond. (audience laughing) And then all the comments stopped (audience laughing) because when an aunt leaves that comment, everyone's like, I think this Raymond might have special needs. (audience laughing) That is the exact comment an aunt that will leave if she was proud of her nephew. (audience laughing) I don't know. Do we got parents here? - Yeah. - Yeah, there we go. Yeah, it's expensive. - Yeah. - That's why I don't have any. It's expensive. I live in New York, and I saw an article in The New York Times. It said the cost of having a kid in New York City is $45 a day. 45, that's, I mean, I know you love your children, but that's like waking up every morning and seeing a parking ticket. (audience laughing) And what happened when we were kids? Like, remember when we were kids? Those Sally Struthers commercials. It was $0.75 a day. Remember that? It was 75-- that was it. So I think if I have a kid, I think I might outsource them. That's what I think. I think I'll send them overseas, and I'm not a-- I'll give them like $100 a week. I'll give $100 a week. He can adopt his five best friends. He'll be like the most popular kid in Guatemala, and then we both look like heroes. People like, hey, how's your kid doing? I'm like, &quot;he's overseas helping &quot;other children.&quot; (audience laughing) It's like, so how old is he? &quot;He's nine. &quot;He's nine. &quot;We're very &quot;progressive in this family.&quot; I don't know. Yeah, I have had some good financial years. I don't want to brag, but a couple of years ago, Utah, I made eight student loan payments one year. (audience cheering) That's a big deal because a year before, I made zero. This is my favorite thing. I remember making the student loan payment and then my bank immediately calling me and asking if I authorized that transaction. (audience laughing) Yeah, that means that my bank thinks it's more likely that a thief would pay off my debt. (audience laughing) I'm like, no, thank you so much for checking. That was me. (audience laughing) And if you do the college, you got to make it. If you go to college, that's my advice to the youngins in here. If you go to college, you got to make it. Student loan people, they're not going to leave you alone. They won't. They still call them up. They go, Mr. DeVito, when we gave you that money, we thought you'd pay us back. I'm like, &quot;I thought I was going &quot;to graduate.&quot; (audience laughing) Right? Like don't get mad at me because you gambled on the wrong guy. (audience laughing) It's like, you should learn to live with your mistakes. (audience laughing) If you want to yell at someone, let's call my high school guidance counselor. She got us all into this mess. (audience laughing) I don't know though. I don't blame myself for my financial problems. I do not. Most of it's my fault, but not all of it. Here's why I say that. I'm from Ohio, but my grandparents are from Italy. And when I was 12, my grandfather died. My grandma gave me a shoe box full of pictures from his childhood, and they were poor. Like they lived in this little sod house. My grandfather had to sleep on a cot with his other five siblings. It looks brutal, yet as bad as it was for them financially, for some reason in 1912, my great grandfather owned a camera. (audience laughing) That said a lot about me. I thought I was bad with money. It turns out, no, I'm genetically inclined to make horrible financial decisions. Like I was doing a show in New York City, and we're walking-- me and another comic are walking through Washington Square Park. And we saw a homeless guy with a telescope, (audience laughing) and the other comedian immediately started making jokes. And I'm like, wait, hang on. Leave this guy alone. I think, I might be related to him. (audience laughing) I live in Queens, Astoria, Queens. We can get dogs, yeah. We can get dogs now in my apartment building. We get dogs. My buddy Gary got a dog, and I was like, hey, man. I go, where'd you get that dog? And he goes, &quot;oh, I rescued it. &quot;I rescued it.&quot; Just say it's a rescue, right? To say you rescued it, that's a grandiose way to say you got something for free. (audience laughing) If that's the case, these pants I'm wearing, I rescued them from JCPenney. (audience laughing) Also, for a while, I was dating a girl that lived in my apartment building. I liked her more than she liked me. She was young though. She was too young. She's 10 years younger than me. She's into horoscopes. - Oh. - Yeah, that's for young people, right? Like you're young. Now's the time, horoscopes. I'm just saying, you never hear successful people reference them. (audience laughing) No one's like, listen, I know that I am a doctor, but I am also an Aries. (audience laughing) And we make quick decisions. (audience laughing) And that's why I amputated your wrong foot. (audience laughing) But I knew you would overreact because you are a Scorpio, and that's what Scorpios do. (audience laughing) I don't know. Have you guys have been to New York City? A round of applause, some of you. (audience cheering) The cool thing about New York City, like especially, if you're on a budget, the museums are either half price or free on Fridays. So me and this girl, we went to the MoMA, the Museum of Modern Art. It's fantastic. It's amazing. I don't know that much about art, but it's all these amazing paintings. And then I saw the three paintings that I thought were the best, and I was excited. I go over and I recognize the name, Picasso, which got me excited because I heard of this dude. Like, I know who this dude is, which is impressive to me because I only know the name of like eight artists and four of them are Ninja Turtles. (audience laughing) I mean, I know Rembrandt, too, but if he was so great, eh, he wouldn't have to sell toothpaste. (audience laughing) But these were the best. I was like, I'm like these paintings are great. And she's like, &quot;let's go check out &quot;some others.&quot; I'm just going to hang here with the Picassos, and she's like, &quot;well, which one's your favorite?&quot; And I go, I don't know. The texture on this one feels different than the two over here. - Oh. - And she's like, &quot;what are you &quot;talking about?&quot; And then I took her hand and try to show her, and she freaked out, which is what you should do if someone tries to get you to touch a priceless painting. Like, you can't touch them. I know that now. I wouldn't go back in time and touch them, but I did. To make an example out of me, she asked a security guard, she goes, &quot;hey, &quot;what happens if you touch &quot;a painting.&quot; The guy goes, oh, you go to jail. We have surveillance cameras. Why? Did you see something? It's like, all right, we should go back to Planet Hollywood. (audience laughing) Yes, I get it now. If I was there, I would never touch another painting. I know that now, and I was talking about this in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania at a show, and some guy with like five teeth after the show comes up. He's like, &quot;hey, man. &quot;I thought I was white trash, &quot;but then you're out there touching &quot;all those Picassos.&quot; And you know what's a shame? I hate to admit this. I do think it's pretty cool I touched three Picassos. I do. I can't take it back. I mean, I wouldn't do it again, but I don't know. Does that make me white trash? I don't know. I went to one WrestleMania. I saw Lynyrd Skynyrd twice, and I touched three Picassos. That might be the Triple Crown of white trash right there. (audience laughing) - Woo. - Yeah, thank you. I wasn't the most popular kid growing up. My mom was worried about my social life. Tell you guys about the first date I ever went on. I was 14 years old. This girl Sarah, she was a big Pauly Shore fan. So I loved Pauly Shore because she's like, yeah, he's amazing. So she goes, &quot;oh, let's &quot;go see the movie Friday, &quot;the new Paul--&quot; I was like, yeah, I'm down. I wore my best bugle boy pants. I bought flowers. Kids that I went to school with, they're showing up. Like, hey, man, what you got the flowers for? I'm like, &quot;I'm on a date with Sarah.&quot; It's like, really? You're dating here, and I'm like, &quot;yeah, that's &quot;my girlfriend.&quot; Like, when'd you guys start dating? Like &quot;we could go on the clock &quot;as soon as she gets here.&quot; That's-- she never shows. - Aw. - She never shows, and in my head, I'm like, maybe she got here really early. So I'm like, I'm in the movie theater. I never saw her. So I'm just sitting there with me and my flowers watching a Pauly Shore movie. It turns out those movies aren't that great, just not that great. And like, I wanted to sneak out because I didn't want kids to see me. So I like left the flowers, and I bailed. And then some lady grabs the flowers and follows me out in the lobby. It's like, &quot;sir, sir, you forgot these.&quot; I'm like, no, no. I got them for a girl. She didn't show. It's like, &quot;you should give them &quot;to your mother.&quot; I'm like, no, my mom already thinks I'm a loser. I don't need to confirm that. (audience laughing) So I take the flowers. I go next door to the Burger King because that's where kids go after the movie, and I didn't want to just throw them away because I knew kids would see them and put two and two together. So what I did is I went in the bathroom, and-- I didn't want to lay them on top. So I started taking garbage out of the garbage can, and I laid the flowers on the bottom like I was just burying them like I was burying my dignity, just getting it down there. And the whole time in my head, I'm like, thinking this is dating? Dating sucks. Like I could have stayed home, and played video games, and not felt this horrible about myself. Anyways, I get a Facebook friend request from Sarah a couple of years ago. I accepted. I'm an adult. You know what she's doing? You know how some people put their jobs? She is the manager of that exact same Burger King. (audience laughing) It's like, wow, karma does exist, and it's in a trash can in Cleveland, Ohio. (audience laughing) When I saw that, went like, yeah, go in the bathroom. Get your flowers, lady. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) Ah, some applause, no. Oh, you're too kind. (audience laughing) I also met Dr. Pimple Popper. I don't know if you guys are into that show. Oh, it hurts me because I had horrible acne when I was a kid. I had horrible-- I was on Accutane. You guys probably know, they quit making it. It was linked to depression and teenage suicide. I knew something was up with that medication because when the doctor prescribed it, he called my mom in the room to let her know the side effects. But then to make me feel better, he started showing me the scars on his face. (audience laughing) Yeah, like that was supposed to magically cheer me up. I'm like, dude, I'm self-conscious about going to school tomorrow because of my acne. Now, you're letting me know it's going to scar me for the next 50 years? It's like, what exactly causes the depression? Are you sure it's the medication because it could be these pep talks. (audience laughing) This is my worst acne story. In high school, you got to take an art class, and I waited 'til I was a senior. Everyone else is in ninth grade. I was a senior, and we had to do an assignment. We had to draw someone in the class, and the kid that drew me just drew me with all my acne, just this brutal drawing, Like all the white heads I tried to pop that didn't quite make it. But he just happened to be the most talented kid in the class. - Oh no. - So he's drawing ended up getting submitted to a bunch of student art shows, and then when the art shows were over, my teacher took that drawing and hung it in the hallway for the last three months of my high school life. So I had to like walk by my own shame every day. And that kid was always weird around me, but I was never mad at him. I was more mad at my art teacher. Like if I go back in time, I'd like to give him $20. Like, hey, man, can you draw a picture of our art teacher, and let's point out all of her insecurities. Like how about you draw a picture of her holding up her left hand pointing out that she's 47 and has never been married. Can we get that drawing? (audience laughing) Or how about a drawing of all the grandchildren her parents will never see. Put that right in her living room. (audience laughing) Thank you. All right, some applaud. (audience applauding) Oh, some more applause. Oh, Utah, here's the deal. Around the holidays, as a comedian, we do a lot of corporate shows. And they pay well, but you've got to be clean, politically correct. So I show up for this gig for a fiber optics company. I ask a little lady who hired me and like, hey, any rules, anything you want me to say and not say? She goes, &quot;no, you can just &quot;do your jokes, but if you can, &quot;can you please say the C word.&quot; I was like wow, I really don't use that word at all. I thought she was joking, so I joke back. And I go, you know what? I'll say it five times in the first 10 minutes. She grabbed my arm and goes, &quot;that would be great because we got &quot;a lot of Catholics, and they'll love it.&quot; That is very confusing. (audience laughing) So now, I have to ask, oh, hey, by the way, what is the C word you're talking about? And she says, &quot;Christmas.&quot; (audience laughing) Yeah, I'm glad that I asked-- (audience applauding) --because there is a whole other C word out there just floating around. And anyone who thinks the word Christmas is too edgy, then they are probably not ready for the real C word. (audience laughing) So then she says to me when she sees, I'm like, oh, OK. She goes, &quot;oh, hey, by the way, what &quot;is the C word you thought I meant?&quot; And I go-- Cleveland. (audience laughing) She goes, &quot;oh no, you could talk &quot;about that.&quot; I was like, all right, great. So an inside joke I started the show for her to just like, hey, Merry Christmas, Cleveland. (audience laughing) And some guy's like, &quot;this is Saint Louis.&quot; And I'm like, hang on. If you don't like it, I've got to bring up Anna. She insisted that I say that four more times. All right, you guys have been awesome. My name's Ray DeVito. Thank you, guys. (audience cheering)