I've had the real fortune for the last 17 years. It's the largest nonprofit biomedical And I've watched some of my colleagues, who have spent two to three years to define the crystal Well, now that can be done And that's because which is a derivative of DeepMind, recognized by the American What's interesting, this work, which is taking the amino acid and predicting the three-dimensional [has] now inspired many other of these as well as RNA and antibodies, and even being able to pick up and even being able that have never been invented before, Now, the only thing I think about this we'll talk about that in a moment, in this award, since Demis and John and their team of 30 scientists don't understand how shouldn't the AI get an asterisk I'm going to switch from life science, which has been the singular biggest to medicine. And in the medical community, the thing that we don't talk much about And according to the National all of us will experience And we know from a recent that these errors have led or seriously disabled each year. So this is a big problem. And the question is, can AI help us? And you keep hearing Well, if you keep making the same mistake (Laughter) We don't need that, we need accuracy and precision medicine. So can we get there? Well, this is a picture of the retina. And this was the first major hint, training 100,000 images Could the machine see things And so the question was, is this from a man or a woman? And the chance of getting it (Laughter) But the AI got it right, 97 percent. So that training, the features are not even fully defined Well that gets then This is just representative, And in fact with the chest X-ray, the ability here for the AI to pick up, the radiologists, expert radiologists which turned out to be picked up and this is, of course, whether it's CT scans, MRI, ultrasound. That through supervised learning we can see AI do than expert physicians. And 21 randomized trials machine vision during that polyps are picked up better with the aid of machine vision especially as the day goes on, We don't know whether picking up changes the natural history of cancers, but it tells you about machine eyes, the power of machine eyes. Now that was interesting. But now still with deep learning models, we've seen and learned that the ability for computer vision to pick up things is quite remarkable. Here's the retina. Picking up the control of diabetes Kidney disease. Liver and gallbladder disease. The heart calcium score, which you would normally get Alzheimer's disease before any Predicting heart attacks and strokes. Hyperlipidemia. And seven years before to pick that up. Now this is interesting we'll be taking pictures This is the gateway to almost It's really striking. And we'll come back to this was done with tens or hundreds [of] with supervised learning, and they're all separate studies Now, as a cardiologist, I've been doing it for over 30 years. But I couldn't see these things. Like, the age and the sex of the patient, or the ejection fraction of the heart, making difficult diagnoses The anemia of the patient, that is, Predicting whether a person, who's never had from the ECG, whether that's going to likely occur. Diabetes, a diagnosis of diabetes The filling pressure of the heart. Hypothyroidism and kidney disease. Imagine getting an electrocardiogram not really so much about the heart. Then there's the chest X-ray. Who would have guessed the race of the patient, no less the ethical implications of that, from a chest X-ray through machine eyes? And interestingly, picking up as well as how well through the chest X-ray. And of course, so many different which we could never, radiologists or cardiologists, with what machine vision can do. Pathologists often argue about a slide, about what does it really show? But with this ability of machine eyes, the driver genomic mutations no less the structural that are accounting Also, where is that tumor coming from? For many patients, we don't know. But it can be determined through AI. And also the prognosis of the patient, just from the slide, by all of the training. Again, this is all just not transformer models. So when we go from the deep neural this classic pre-print, one of the most cited pre-prints ever, &quot;Attention is All You Need,&quot; the ability to now be able whether it be language or images, and be able to put this in context, setting up a transformational The prototype is, With over a trillion connections. Our human brain has 100 trillion But one trillion, just think of all that's packed into those one trillion. And interestingly, this is now multimodal with speech. And it involves a massive amount And it's with self-supervised learning, which is a big bottleneck in medicine because we can't get experts This can be done So what does this set up in medicine? It sets up, for example, The one thing that both and patients would like to see. Everyone hates being and patients would like when they finally have the visit So the ability to change is just one step along the way. By having the liberation from that are driven, and then all the downstream normal often off-hours. Now we're seeing in health systems where people, physicians and heading towards ultimately We recently published, with the group led by Pearse Keane, the first foundation model And remember those eight different things This was all done with one model. This is with 1.6 million retinal images predicting all these different And this is all open-source, which is of course really important Now I just want to review a couple Andrew, who is now six years old. He had three years of relentlessly His gait suffered with a dragging he had severe headaches. He went to 17 doctors over three years. His mother then entered all It made the diagnosis which meant he had a tethered spinal cord over three years. He had surgery to release the cord. He's now perfectly healthy. (Applause) This is a patient that was sent to me, who was suffering with, She saw many different and her sister entered all her symptoms no treatment for long COVID, there is no treatment validated, and her sister put all It found out it actually she had limbic encephalitis, She was treated, and now But these are not just anecdotes anymore. 70 very difficult cases that are the clinical at the New England Journal of Medicine were compared to GPT-4, and the chatbot did as well or better than the expert in making the diagnosis. So I just want to close Medicine is still an apprenticeship, and Andrew Cho is 30 years old, in his second year We see all patients And at the end of clinic the other day, I sat down and said to him, &quot;Andrew, you are so lucky. You're going to be practicing medicine You're going to be the way we haven't done for decades.&quot; That is the ability to have the note and the work from the conversation to derive things like pre-authorization, billing, prescriptions, all the things that we do, including nudges to the patient. For example, did you get and what did they show and all that coming back to you. But much more than that, to help with making diagnoses. And the gift of time that having all the data of a patient that's all teed up before And all this support changes the future bringing in the gift of time. So this is really exciting. I said to Andrew, everything that the benefit greatly But it is really a remarkable time it's so damn exciting. Thank you. (Applause)