AMY GALLO: Have you heard Always be looking but stay in your job It's not worth it to stay but don't leave your got another one lined up. There is a lot of advice on and a lot of it is conflicting. On top of that, the pandemic we work, and that So in today's world, do when it comes I'm here to unpack some of from facts. [UPBEAT MUSIC] Fact or myth? You should always be Let's start by cracking We've all seen the around the Great Resignation and at this moment, to have the upper But that's likely to Should you perpetually be this on the hunt for The answer differs depending or what's going on but research suggests it's One poll found that one in five wished they had stayed and only a quarter said they were satisfied enough Another study found reported that they found was very different were led to believe to get their old jobs back. So there's no guarantee that than your current one. Also, you want to be happy, So if you're not on the like your current in spite of a few imperfections that's actually a great It's important you keep Get outside your comfort in whatever ways you can. But if you can do all of those or within your don't worry about always being As the research shows, But let's say you truly and you do want to switch jobs. That brings us to another Fact or myth? You should stay at your because moving around a So you want to switch worried because you've only for a short time. If you don't stay for just wrecking your resume? [PAPER RIPS] The short answer-- no. Short stints don't always hurt According to author and employers have accepted of employment are just In fact, people are most after their first, second, Millennials are especially prone quitting within two years. And hiring managers realize there are a people might leave their especially with what's market in the past few years. That being said, you if you can, not because prospects but because of It can be hard to keep your way in a new making new work friends, to a new boss. It's exhausting, but if you are ready to jump, won't hurt your resume. Fact or myth? You should never leave have the next one lined up. This is a tricky one. Part of the logic is hate seeing unexplained Apparently, you're without a break for Yikes. Is this good advice? Not really. It's just not always realistic. For example, you may of your partner's job or quit Or you may just need a break According to career there are two should leave even if you don't when you believe something is going on at work or when your physical or mental health. Of course, financial come into play here, too. You may not be able to leave down another source of income. The good news here is just aren't the sticking This was the case but it's even more true now A lot of people whether it's because of or other life circumstances. So if you can swing a and you believe leaving your go for it. Fact or myth? You should never I'm sure you've heard A job switch just doesn't come with more responsibility, Think again. This may have been the model but given how flat these days with fewer there's often nowhere for you or a new one. Instead, focus on work even if it's Research proves that above more money and a better title So instead of more money, more try swapping in more important mastery, more A job that gives may be worth switching for. Fact or myth? You shouldn't quit your job gives you a counteroffer. If you're a valuable will try to convince Counteroffers from often come with flattery conditions, but be careful. This can backfire for Author and talent expert Claudio there was a reason for a job in the first is unlikely to change even with He says that recruiters at least pre-pandemic, who accept counteroffers search within 90 days, and 80% within six to 12 months. That should tell you something. Of course, be willing to if they want to make a the reasons you wanted to You want to make and analyze both alternatives. Which one, staying or what you want in the future? OK, let's review. Here are pieces of advice Are they helpful, As we've seen, it's First, always be looking Actually, if you're happy in that's a good situation. There's no guarantee that Second, stay at your job The truth is a short stint but do consider the emotional Third, never leave have the next one lined up. These days, gaps aren't the In fact, there are where you should leave you have another lined up. Fourth, never make A more nuanced piece be to focus on jobs that mastery, purpose, or balance and pay. And fifth, don't quit your job makes a counteroffer. Not a bad idea, if you do end up sticking that made you look for a hasn't gone away. Thanks for watching. All of these strategies are based on HBR linked in the description. Do you have a great piece of or is there a topic you want Comment below. Bye for now. [UPBEAT MUSIC]