Mexico is a very interesting country. It is one of the most populated countries in the world. There is in its center, Mexico City, its homonymous capital. One of the largest metropolises on Earth. At the same time, the country has a capricious geography, its capital is poorly placed, although centered, it suffers from other problems. The country is divided into several unequal areas and we will see that in the video. Some areas are dependent on the industry of the United States, others are very tourist areas. And speaking of tourism, let me tell you a story. -Hello, I am from France and I would like to spend a few holidays in Mexico. Just to do a little expedition. -Hello, I'm Benito Juarez and I'm going to stop you! We don't want imperialist invaders in our country! -But thanks to NordVPN, everything I do goes through a tunnel that guarantees online security, privacy and anonymity. NordVPN hides your IP and can locate you in 59 countries. It's usable on six devices at once with any operating system. On computer, tablet, phone, etc. -Oh no ! I have lost track of the French invaders! -In addition, I found that hotel prices were too expensive when I looked at a site from France. How am I going to comfortably accommodate my dear Maximilian I? -I don't know, but I want a nice palace! -Thanks to NordVPN, I can change my virtual location and see the prices displayed for example from Mexico. It's much cheaper! With NordVPN I can even watch videos that are not accessible when I'm abroad. By going on Youtube or on video-on-demand platforms. So go to https://nordvpn.com/telecrayon. To get an exclusive discount on all NordVPN subscriptions. Click on the link in the description to support Telecrayon and get a 30-day money-back guarantee! Anyway, back to Mexico. The first thing to do to understand how the territory of a country works is to see where the population is distributed. And we'll see it piece by piece. Reminder: Mexico has almost 130 million inhabitants and is divided into 32 federated states. Nerve center I decided to divide Mexico into three major regions. Including this one which is the central region. Taking all these states in the center, we get more than 60% of the country's population. If I take the 6 most central states, we get a total of 40 million inhabitants over an area of 90,000 km2. A third of the population of Mexico lives in these 5% of the territory. Mexico City is the country's capital and largest city. Its agglomeration has about 20 million inhabitants. Or half of the central zone that I described just before. 15% of the country's population lives in this city. Mexico City is a city that has a problem with water. The city is gigantic but in an area that was not planned to receive so many inhabitants. The second largest agglomeration is Guadalajara which has 5 million inhabitants. There is therefore a major axis that goes from Mexico City to Guadalajara. Around Mexico City, there is a kind of densely populated peripheral zone with cities like Cuernavaca, 1 million inhabitants, Toluca, 2 million and Puebla, 3 million. These last two are the fourth and fifth largest agglomerations in the country. At road level, we can form a triangle with an axis that goes to Leon, 2 million inhabitants and Santiago de Queretaro, 1.5 million. Seventh and eighth agglomerations of the country. I cannot name all the cities. What must be remembered is that it is the nerve center of the country, we find the densest area there and that it goes as far north as San Luis Potosi and east, up to in Veracruz, the historic port. The coastline of Veracruz has a fairly high density too, exceeding 100 inhabitants per km2. To go from Veracruz to Guadalajara, you can do almost everything by highway if you go through Mexico City. But what about the Pacific coast? The coastline to the south is sparsely populated. It is totally dependent on the cities of the interior. There are two major ports: Manzanillo and Lazaro Cardenas. But they are still rather secondary cities in Mexico. In the southern coast, the largest city will allow us to turn to a new angle of Mexico. Indeed, the largest coastal city is Acapulco. Just south of Mexico City. Acapulco has a metropolitan area of 800,000 inhabitants. This city is well known because it is a large seaside resort. It is part of the Triangle of the Sun, a major international tourist area. In reality, Acapulco is mainly a destination for tourists from the United States. Mexico's problem is before your eyes. The country has a huge coastline, on the two most important oceans. And yet, all cities are located in the interior. As if the population did not dare to live near the sea. The reason is obviously historical, the coast is only interesting since there have been major inter-oceanic commercial exchanges. The population therefore had no reason to live near the sea before. And that is why cities have taken so much trouble to develop on the coast. But the other problem is Mexico's dependence on the United States. The ports are mainly turned on the export of oil and the largest coastal cities are tourist cities such as Acapulco. Tourism Acapulco grew in the 1950s to become the most famous tropical destination for Americans. To the east of the city, there are large hotels with sea views. All these hotels are near the international airport and well away from the city. The town itself has seen its reputation decline, becoming a haven for crime. There is, in particular, the Hotel Princess Mundo Imperial, one of the largest complexes of the seaside resort. Built in 1971 for the oldest buildings. It symbolizes this golden age of Mexican tourism. But since then other cities have grown and surpassed ancient Acapulco. This is the case of the coastline between Cancun and the Riviera Maya. And here we are in a very different place, since we are in the Yucatan peninsula. I haven't talked much about this whole eastern part of Mexico yet. But this is the opportunity. As said previously, I had made it one of the three regions: In this one, there are 13 million inhabitants. Merida is the main agglomeration in this area. The eleventh in the country with 1.3 million inhabitants. Then after Cancun, follow Villahermosa and Tuxtla Gutierrez which each have 800,000 inhabitants. But as you can see, these three major cities are all off the coast. We don't like the sea in Mexico! The busiest airport in Mexico is obviously that of its capital and largest city, Mexico City. But the second is that of Cancun. It is therefore a truly international destination. And this city, unlike Acapulco, is very isolated from the nerve center of the country. It's as if she was part of a world apart. Cancun has several advantages for tourism. It is first isolated from the rest of Mexico, as I said. Mexico has indeed developed a tourism of isolation. American tourists who go to Mexico go there to stay among themselves in resorts. Again, in Cancun, there are plenty of hotels away from the city so that tourists can stay together and take advantage of the climate. Cancun is a very good example of a place that has undergone disneylandization. That is to say that the city has been transformed to serve tourists and everything is done to make tourists feel comfortable. Then, several small resorts developed to decentralize Cancun. It's called the Riviera Maya. The other advantage of Cancun is its proximity to the United States. The city is really on the point to the north and east to target all the tourist potential that is the eastern United States. It almost looks like the Yucatan Peninsula is trying to reach Florida. Finally, the third advantage is cultural heritage. Cancun is not far from the archaeological site of Chichen Itza. Frontier I have spoken of the nerve center of Mexico. I also spoke of Mexico in Central America, towards the Yucatan. Now, we must speak of a new Mexico, that of the north. Before arriving in the North, we have a sort of transition with the states of Zacatecas and San Luis Potosi. These two already have a fairly low density even though their main cities, located to the south, are linked to the central zone of Mexico. The other 9 states north of Mexico are as follows. They still have about thirty million inhabitants. But the states are empty with a few very populated cities. For example, in the state of Nuevo Leon. There are 5.7 million inhabitants. The capital is Monterrey, second or third agglomeration of the country with 5 million inhabitants. That's almost the entire population of the state. Monterrey, located further inland, is a historic city that has managed to become the symbolic capital of northern Mexico. It is now the richest city in the country. Why is this city so rich? Well because it serves as a base for many US companies that need to relocate to Mexico. It is in Monterrey that we find the Obispado Tower. The tallest skyscraper in Mexico but also in all of Latin America. But what is even more striking, in northern Mexico, are the border towns. Take for example, the state of Tamaulipas. The state has 3.5 million inhabitants in this large territory. But all the population is distributed in the 5 largest cities. The largest city is Tampico, which is the main northern port. One million inhabitants. There is also Ciudad Victoria, the state capital, which has half a million inhabitants. Finally, there are above all three large cities located on the border with the United States. Reynosa, 1 million inhabitants, Matamoros, half a million inhabitants and Nuevo Laredo with 400,000 inhabitants. The north of Mexico is therefore a country apart, separated by mountains and the desert from the rest of the country. It is a country entirely turned towards the United States by becoming its giant factory. Also in the interior, we find the city of Torreon. Founded in 1907 to develop Metallurgy there. Today, the tenth agglomeration of the country. Here, we saw 8 of the ten largest cities in the country. The other two are border towns. There are plenty of border towns that have developed in Mexico. We have already seen some of them. Ciudad Juarez has 1.5 million inhabitants. 9th agglomeration of the country. On the other side of the Rio Grande, there is the city of El Paso in the United States, with its suburbs, the two border towns form an agglomeration straddling two countries of 2 million inhabitants. But the biggest border town is the very famous Tijuana. 2 million inhabitants for the agglomeration on the Mexican side. On the other side, there is San Diego. Together, they form a cross-border agglomeration of 5 million people. And we see in the satellite images the dependence that there is between Tijuana and San Diego. The suburbs of San Diego are self-contained and circular around the city center. On the other hand, that of Tijuana is really turned towards the border. As if the border were a coastline. The border between the United States and Mexico is one of the most emblematic. Presenting two radically different countries from an economic point of view. Tijuana is also a tourist destination for Americans. It makes it possible to offer certain services at lower costs. For example to go shopping or to go to the hospital. Tijuana has also become a major center of medical tourism. Many Americans go there to benefit from treatments half the price. And of course, there are factories there called Maquiladora. This is the raison d'etre for all Mexican border towns. These factories have a special status because they benefit from reduced taxes. But they have to build products to be exported out of Mexico afterwards. Mexico manages to attract many American companies thanks to this policy with its very cheap labor. At the same time, it avoids emigration and unemployment. In 1950, there were 25 million inhabitants in Mexico. In 2020, we are at 130 million. The population of the country has been multiplied by 5, which is a lot compared to the United States. In 1950, the municipality of Tijuana had 50,000 inhabitants. In 2020, we are at 1.8 million. Its population has multiplied by 36. You see how much there has been a transformation of Mexico via its border. Conclusion Mexico has made a choice to turn fully towards the United States. The various international organizations in North America have made it possible to accentuate this direction since the 1990s. In any case, this is the country's major problem. a dependence on another richer and more powerful country. From now on, the future of Mexico must be played out on the entire American continent. Being the first Spanish-speaking power on the continent, it can have a great influence on other Hispanic countries. That's all I had to say about Mexico. If you liked the video, subscribe, give a thumbs up. The NordVPN link is in the description and in the pinned comment!