Hey Everyone Ali Mattu here and I am with Tristan welcome back. We just did an episode about the top myths you back here to do an episode about how to Sure yeah that makes sense. The first one is sobriety and this is one disorder myself included have struggled with. I've been about two years sober which is and And it was a real pain to start. Yeah but it is one of those things that like if you're putting street drugs in your system good. It's just like you're just going to exacerbate And so that's if you're not sober. That's where I would start. For a lot of people when they're moving faster. Yeah they might want to slow down and they Or when they're down or slower they might It's like trying to do that stuff yourself. Yeah. The other thing I want to add to that is gambling. A lot of people might not think about that hands of chance yeah which is what happens It is. It is a really risky thing. That makes sense. And for me I know when I was heavily drinking like I was going to feel terrible in the morning You had to control. Yeah. Number one no one has control you have to chaos chaos theory. You can get that with professional help. You can also. Which is the second thing I have with you. Go find a therapist find a therapist that and really decide to work with that person That brings me to my first one which is understand Really understand it inside and out. What are the kind of things that might make to hypomania or a manic episode. What are things that might make you more vulnerable Sleep is a big one that a lot of people I So the more you know your own pattern of bipolar and also deal with unexpected problems when One of the ones that I have is maintaining your symptoms manifest themselves. Yes! Know like oh I'm doing this that means I'm up. Yes. And you just got to do checks and balances. Totally. All the time. Sometimes people like like to write things you like. Find whatever way of figuring that stuff out There's a bunch of really good mood chart There's one I can't remember the name of it chart you can just get the kind of stuff. The next one I have is telling your friends kinda the same thing. Spoilers Tristan! I'm sorry but hey hey it's cool it's spoilers Making sure that your friends know what's Maria Bamford talks about like if I'm talking really good ideas call the purple van because So like just so you know so you're aware and that she was she has bipolar disorder because time. And so her friends were like &quot;Hey you're not You should see somebody.&quot; Sometimes you just want to talk to someone Yeah. So that might mean like a support group or other folks who also have bipolar disorder explain what it is and all that and they get So I think knowing who is helpful for what Yeah it's super helpful like who's a good Who's a great person who's going to help you depressed and you need someone to just push Another really great thing is that resources Oh totally message boards and like Twitter mental health. Oh yeah. But one of the nice things about it is there illness. There are some great YouTubers there's some Sub Reddit groups? Just subreddits I think. See this is what separates the older millenial The next one I have is meditation actually. And that's really helped me at a few points. If you can afford it headspace is a great to get relaxed and then also the whole kind I think I couldn't Stephen Fry last time like because there's clouds doesn't mean there's Totally and you can just accept it totally. My next one is I can't remember oh this is Yeah. I'm very excited to share this consume awesome Yes that is super important to find stories My favorite is Marbles by Ellen Forney. It's a graphic memoir. You haven't read it? I haven't but I've heard of it and I want She's amazing and she just came out with a like a it's a book about how to cope with It's amazing. And then I talked last time about Next to You mentioned Maria Bamford there's Kay Redford There are so many books that will give you you to better understand it to contextualize Stephen Fry's documentary The Secret Life seen it five times maybe more. It's really good and it's really succinct. One other reason it's important to find a you can give that story to someone else. Yes. Like a friend someone you're dating a family Watch this. Listen to this. This is what I'm going through. Yeah even like music it's really great. Totally like anything from Nirvana kind of To be honest some music will pull you down And so it's also about knowing what music to other people. And also knowing what music helps you when Yep. And what music will help you when you going Absolutely. And the next one I have is writing you should things for other people yeah share. So a journal might be just for you and you're This is how I feel or might be an application or you might start a blog and go &quot;this is on with me&quot; or you might start a podcast or is my other thing is like that's how a lot schmaltzy like I like schmaltzy and I do like I miss the 90s. I love it. I love the 90s I'm a 90s kid. I miss I miss sincerity. But it is love and it is the biggest coping to love yourself and like you said. Learning to love people stories and seeing because specifically I think we mentioned Bipolar people are very sensitive and I think you tap into that and you let yourself experience And don't get so wrapped up with everything let yourself love yourself and love the people and empathize. I think that's the most helpful thing to cope That's a great place for us to tie this up. What are your favorite ways to cope with bipolar Let us know in the comments below. Where can people go to check out more of your I have a website TristanJMiller.com has all I do a podcast called positive and negative And then I have a YouTube channel which here Probably they're probably here. Yeah. All the links will be in the doo ba de doo And thanks so much for being on my friend This was a blast and a half.