Let's work three examples related to three-phase single phase-to-neutral is 120 volts rms. and, in this problem, let's arrange the each at 120 volts, are distributed to the the top wire will be neutral. We've been told in so let's go ahead and draw those connections in the bushing on one transformer, one phase will and likewise for the third transformer. Our point and the neutral wire. If we look over here that we have 240 volts across the secondaries between the center tap and either of the other side of our wye connection first. We now have but which secondary are we going to use? Well, these three secondaries to our neutral. If we were all the three phases to neutral. What we should We'll let that third connection float, because and now measure the voltage difference in rms I would get 120 volts rms. On the other hand, the three phases, then I would measure 208 volts Now I've not drawn the grounding connections be grounded at the pole. Let's take a look we're going to look at something called a in rural installations in North America. If the we're going to calculate the voltages from each our voltages. These are all in rms. If I were this is what I would read. I hope you can a wild leg delta configuration using transformers the center tap becomes the neutral wire and I've used in North America. One of our phases is and then our high leg, or the wild leg, is colored we're told to calculate the voltages from each leg the voltage from Leg 1 to neutral is just on our circuit. Likewise, the voltage from we can't just subtract in order to get the the 240 volts across this leg is out of phase to have to use phasors in order to find the rms as 0 volts and if we want to then calculate we can use KVL. It's the voltage from 2 to neutral we can't add them in rms values. We're going to the fact that these voltages are out of phase Leg 2 is 120 volts at an angle of zero degrees, of phase with the voltage at Leg 2. Remember that of phase with one another by 120 degrees. It's from polar to rectangular. This is just 120 and that our voltage from high to neutral is nearly or rather the rms value, is just 208 volts. The rural installation is that you can still serve from either Leg 1 to neutral or Leg 2 to neutral, at 240 volts between the phases. There's one more want to discuss here in example three, and that if one of the three coils were to fail, or one of then that phase would go offline. However, it still works if one of the three transformers at here in this particular example. Let's assume fails and becomes open. Let's then calculate what be delivered to the load. First, let's consider these coils before the failure takes place. When be delivered to the load, we're actually asking that any of these particular transformers the transformer can handle is not going to not having a failure. Let's label some voltages of zero degrees. We'll call the voltage over degrees and we'll call the voltage over here Let's now label the currents passing through each current. So, this is the phase current between A and this is the phase current between B and currents and, let's start with CA. So, we have We'll assume it's connected to a given load, but go ahead and convert polar to rectangular, combine polar form. Let's now consider the current flowing have a particular voltage drop divided by R. We We can then convert them into rectangular form, polar form. At this point, we have expressions transformer. I'm going to define the current here the line current. I'm also going to assume that all of the phases. What ultimately determines the current here I_L, that's passing out through currents through phase B and phase C should be the node of phase A, we know that the line current We can substitute in from what we found before then we quickly find that the imaginary parts consider what happens after the failure. If one of the advantages of the delta configuration by with just two out of the three transformers. little bit. The phase current between A and B is voltage between phase A and phase B is exactly is going to be zero because it's not flowing at change. If I again apply the Kirchhoff Current now just -I_ph(AB). The magnitude of the line magnitude of the line current after the failure the failure, which means that the maximum power reduced accordingly. This transformer can deliver so we could say that the transformer is operating transformers here in the bank were to fail. We and edited videos in order to help students liked watching this particular video, then you