(mellow smooth jazz music) - Hello, I'm Bob Ross you to the 29th Joy of Painting series. If this is your first time with us, allow me to extend a personal invitation for you to get your and paint along with us each show. And if you've been with us before, please allow me to thank back for another series of painting shows. We'll use about a dozen colors, some unorthodox brushes, and each show I'll show you how to put some of nature's masterpieces right here on the canvas. So, I'll tell you what, let's get started. Today, we'll have 'em run all the colors across the screen, right there, that you need to paint along with us. While they're doing that, let me tell you what I've got going on up here. Today, I'm using an 18 by 24 inch, double-primed, pre-stretched canvas, but you use whatever size you'd like. And I've just covered the entire canvas with a very thin coat of liquid white. Liquid white is designed just to make the canvas wet, and to make it slick. It allows us to actually blend color right here on the canvas. Makes your whole painting So, let's get started. Thought today we'd just do a very simple little scene that hope you'll enjoy. Let's start with a little two inch brush and a touch of the alizarin crimson. And we just load a little Pull a little paint out, to assure nice even distribution of paint all the way through the bristles. And let's go right up here. And we'll take this old brush and just making little X's, little We'll just very quickly warm part in the sky, here. Maybe we'll have a little pink in the sky. I sorta like that. And in our world, we can do anything that we want to do here, any old thing. There. Doesn't take too long when you're using a brush that's two inches wide. Okay, without even cleaning the brush, we'll go right into, right (chuckles) I like phthalo blue. It's a very warm blue, very nice. Once again, just tap and let's go back up here and still using our little criss-cross strokes, X's. That's all they are, little X's. We'll just apply a little Somethin' about like so. Then we'll come back after we clean the brush and blend that together. Now, the blue is many many times stronger than this little pink area. It'll just eat it up, so be careful. Be careful, all go away. If you wanted to make the indication of a happy little cloud, all Little stringy cloud in the brush and that easy. We'll blend him out, have a Let's see, while we have that on there, let's have some water in this painting. I love water and it's very Still water is always level. And I think today we'll have still water. So, pull from the outside in, outside in. Somethin' about like so. Alright. While I have that old brush going, I wanna darken the corners a little bit. I'ma take a little Prussian blue and just add in the Little bit up there, and we'll go over to the other side and add a little more and then down toward the bottom, and we'll put a little down here too. I'm just putting a little Prussian blue in each corner to darken it. And then, the most fun part of this whole technique is washing the brushes. Since these are oil paints, we're washing our brushes with odorless paint thinner. Shake off the excess, (giggles) and just beat That's really the most fun part of it. Now, with a clean brush, dry from just beating it, we'll start in the light area, which is the pink, and we'll blend it all together. Somethin' about like so. Okay, and down here, we'll There. But it's that easy, that easy. What's so fantastic about anybody can put a little with just a little bit of practice, a vision in your mind, and off you go. Alright, that's working so well. Take a little white, grab a little more of the titanium white. I wanna make a light blue color here, mostly phthalo blue, and let's just tap a little color into the bristles. This old two inch brush'll Watch here, watch here, watch here. It's fun. Take the corner of the brush and just pull down, Straight down, straight down. I wanna make it look live far back in the distance. Little more color, and we'll just have it, we'll go, I don't know, right there. In your world, you create There, but I wanna keep the bottom light, so it looks like mist. You could even take another two inch brush, I have several, and tap it. Really get in there and tap It'll help create that illusion of mist, right down at the bottom. And sometimes, sometimes it's a lot of fun to put several layers. It helps create depth in your painting and for that, we'll add a little more blue but we make it a little darker. Add a little Prussian blue to it, make it a little darker, And we'll come back and just put another little layer and pulling downward, That's really all we're doing. Somethin' about like that. There. And we don't know where that goes. It doesn't matter at this point. And back to our other two inch I wanna create mist again. It's caused because of difference in value, and that misty area turns out to be your very best friend. Take care of it, treasure it. There. Okay, let's have some more fun. (chuckles) Let's see, gonna take some black, some Prussian blue, and It doesn't matter, we'll Crimson too, what the I'm gonna put a little It's getting close enough we should begin seeing some color. Little bit of white. Don't want it totally dark yet. There, perfect. 'Kay I'm And let's get us fan brush, Load it full of color, 'Kay, let's go up in here there lives, does now, some Now, these are a little a little more detail, a And we just drop 'em in. We don't know where they That's exactly, exactly Don't put too much detail in here. It's too far away, you're not You see detail when When things are far away, you make out form, shape, basic color, that's all. Save the detail till the foreground. The lack of detail helps also create that illusion of distance It's very very important, very important. M'kay, I'm gonna tap a little of that. That'll help create that There. Lift slightly upward, lightly. Just a little bit, see? Now then. You know, when I was a traditional painter one of the hardest things to make effectively was reflections. Watch how easy, I'll take we'll take a two inch Just pull straight down. It's most important that Somethin' like so, straight down. (clicks tongue) make those little noises. Then, very lightly, go across. There. And instantly, we have some Now, here somethin' is funny. Take a little, I just use a little white. If you wanna create another take a little white and lift upward, and it'll make little areas back here that looks like a whole different plane and the white will look like There, that easy. Let's put a little water line. For that we use liquid white. Pull it out very flat, cut across, 'kay? And we can go right up in here and we can just drop in Just a happy little water line lives back in here somewhere, we Don't know that we even imagination take you Lotta times I start a in mind but the time of And from that, you can paint Don't worry about it, you don't always have to have a perfect vision in your mind of what it is you're gonna paint. Imagination is, it's like any or lack of muscle in your body. The more you practice, Take some black, Prussian blue, I'ma put some phthalo green in there. I like phthalo green, There we go. Alright, let me wipe off the knife. I just wipe the knife on a I would just use that Load some color into it, Both side, let's go up in here. Let's have, let's have He lives right here, see? Just make a line, take the corner of your brush, make a and just sort of work from the center out. There it goes. (clicks tongue) It's easier to do 'em fast Here they come. (clicks tongue) Just sorta back and forth. I had a lady in class one time tell me it was like makin' Z's, the letter Z. She called 'em Z trees, so I guess that's as good of analogy as any. From the center out, should be the thickest, darkest, 'cause you have leaves on the back, you have a trunk in the middle, and you have leaves on this side. We'll have one more in there. There we go. Have a little family of trees. You know if you've painted with me before, I think everybody should Even a tree needs a friend. Now, if you wanted to reflect those, just pop in some general indications of where they are, no big deal. 'Cause we don't make mistakes here, we have happy accidents. Very quickly, you learn to work Take the big brush, pull Straight down, once and we have instant reflections. I'ma just use that same fan brush. It has that color we and I'll go through cad yellow Immediately, we have green. There we are. Let's go up in here. And we can take that green, let's go back and put some highlights on our little evergreen trees, there Alright, this little tree here he's sayin, &quot;Don't leave me out. I need some too.&quot; There we are, there we are, there we are. Alright, now, gonna put right on that same brush, 'cause I wanna lighten the color and A thin paint will stick to a thick paint. We mix 'em back up again, And we can just take this brush and let's just pop in the indication of some little bushes that live down here, right down in these little foots. Somethin' about like that. How's that? That looks like a little island. Let's put some dirt there. Let's take some white, little dark sienna, mix 'em together, cut off Let's go up in here and we'll take this and we just put the indication here, a little bit of soil, Gotta have a little place, if this is a little island, for all this to sit on. Alright. See there? That's all there is to it. M'kay, (sucks teeth), somethin' to do on the other side now. Let's have some fun, let's have some fun. You know if you've painted with me before, I like old big trees. Let's take a little bit let's go right up in here. This is your bravery test, take the corner of the old two inch brush and let's just begin laying in a basic shape here. Tree it lives right there, right there. Big old tree, but he's a nice tree. There he is. Alright, while I got that brush going, I tell you what, maybe let's do somethin' about like this. (clicks tongue) And we just tap in all kinds of little, little bushy lookin' areas. You have to decide what lives here, how far it goes, how tall it's fat, skinny, in And in your world, you All the decisions. There we are. See, we're just puttin' some dark in here so later on, our light color will show. We'll just grab a-- Oops, grab another one. There's a fan brush right there. Take a little white, a little just wanna make the indication here. Maybe a little tree trunk, (exhales quickly) That's nice. 'Kay, right here. (exhales) Just want some indications. I'ma put some happy so we're gonna cover most of those up. Most of 'em won't show, Need a little sap green, We'll just put it right on this two inch brush, give a little push. Good shot there, you can see that well. 'Kay, let's go up in here. Now, I wanna put some leaves on here. Use just the corner of the brush, just the corner of the brush. There we go. See? That's all there is Think about shape and form, drop these little rascals in wherever you want 'em. Wherever. You really are the creator on this piece of canvas. You can do anything! You can move rivers, mountains, create any illusion that you want here. When I go home, the only power I can take it to the street all by myself, but here I can do anything, I decided I wanted a bush right there. And, tell you what, let's get crazy. You know me, if you've I like big trees and we have one living in our world right there. There he comes. We should've done this it'd been a lot faster. There we go. Just drop it in wherever Alright. Boy, that's a big tree, I wasn't kiddin', this is a monster tree. Huge tree and you could've done it with a two inch brush just I like the old fan brush, it Here we go with a smaller tree, 'cause I think he needs a friend. There. 'Kay, just drop it in. All we're doing, once again, is putting in the background color. You could put this in with a paint roller, it doesn't matter, long We'll come back and separate all of this with some nice highlights. Here's a little brown and white. We're gonna put the of a trunk, just what you There. You don't see leaves on this side. We can go back to our little fan brush, go right through the cad We'll load some color into it. Let's go back up in here. Let's put a highlight or two on here. Evergreens are normally so don't kill all the dark It happens sometime, and you don't know when to stop. There. And the base of the tree should be darker than the top, big And those shadow areas are where In previous shows we've had, like Peapod the pocket squirrel, my little We've had him on the show. But this is kinda the Let's take a little bit of color, let's use the, let's We'll go through some, get some sap green, some yellow, load a lotta More sap green. (sharply Alright, then we can go up here, and we can begin picking one at a time, one at a time. There's a happy little You knew he was there, didn't you? And he's got a little friend named Clyde, lives right over here, there he is. So you can give all these things names, personalities, it's okay. We'll take the little oval brush, dipped in some paint thinner. We'll go through some on one, wanna load it full of color again. Then I'ma take, and with the other side, I got some light brown I made earlier. I'm just gonna go through, see? Like that, put a little black in it, make it a little dark, ooh that's nice. Now, with that I guess we'll come up here and make the indication, we can't see too much of 'em, of some Just some happy little rocks. Maybe there's one Wherever, just some indications. Then we'll come back with our brush we were making the bushes with and we'll settle those right There, now see? Now they become part of the painting. There we go, just like so. And we'll make all kinds and happy little things Alright. Okay. Shoot, if we had I'd have to go fishin' there. I like to fish but I'm I catch a little fish and out of his mouth and little CPR, pat him on the toot toot, and put him back in the water, go back, catch him again another day. But we'd have to have a way to get up here if we're gonna catch that fish. We'll take a little of the van dyke brown and let's have us a little path. We had to walk all through maskeeters would get us, so let's have us a little path that we catch a big old trout or bass, whatever it is that lives in here. There. Take a little bit, let's find some white, little dark sienna, mix it together, make a little highlight color. Just barely touching, barely. Let it graze, let it graze. That easy, that easy. 'Bout like so. M'kay. There. Now then, let's put Ya have somethin' on now let's go on this side. Once again, I'ma take a one inch brush and I'm just settin' it straight down and I'm pulling it in one direction. It's most, most important. That loads a lot of paint, You wanna turn it, put that It's most important. Then we take that, we go right up in here, no pressure hardly, just enough to get the brush to touch the canvas, and we begin working on shape and form and we create a bush or That's all there is to it. And there's another one, I know, I know. Sometimes it Do one at a time, one at a time. I'ma put a little bright red on there. Maybe here's one right here. Oh, yeah. It's got little, I don't I got little red flowers on the tip. (chuckles) Sneaky. There. Then we can go back over in here, and we can begin adding in just little things that come about here on the path. 'Bout like that. Alright, alright. You got your brushes warmed up yet and you're ready, you can do this! You can do this, I know you can. I get letters every day from people all over the country believed they could paint Their friends and when they look at their There. I'ma put a little stick lives right there, little old tree. Maybe, maybe, maybe this little tree died and he's naked now, just a And that happens in nature. There. So, we can put little arms on him that are still hangin' out. Alright. All kinds of little dooders. Maybe over in here, and are what'll make your painting Take your time when you're doing these and just drop 'em in here and Take a little light brown and when you mix this, get it very thin. This should be almost like, Turn the bristles, that'll There you see it good And where it's very dark, then Where it's light, we make dark trees because they both exist in nature. So you can put little, see now there's a little tree lives back looks out over the That's all there is to it. Another way of making take your knife, just a clean knife and you can reach up in here and just scrape right through the paint, see? And that'll make all kinda little sticks. And let's come down here, we'll make a few more in here, wherever. You decide where they live. Sometimes, these old evergreens here have old dead limbs hangin' off of 'em and you can do that, just with And shoot, with that I think we 'bout have a finished painting. It's that easy. Let's take a little bit little bright red, and we'll Really hope you've enjoyed it. It's a very simple and if you try it, I'd love to see some photographs of what you're doing. So if you have time, take a photograph, send it to us, let us hear from you. Until then, from all of us here, I'd like to wish you happy painting and God bless, my friend. (mellow smooth jazz music)