Transcriber: Tien Nguyen Good morning, good evening, May these sharings bring benefit Some of us are still lucky, having parents, a teacher, or a mentor, who are sharing with us and give us guidance. But there will be the moment when the only person left It is, therefore, my first suggestion to question and ask yourself: "How can I learn to properly navigate In the previous talk, to spend some time investigating that your mind can find itself in. With the proper methods you would be able to develop that your mind regains the ability to discover and realize things that you haven't been able to see before. Now just take a moment to imagine. You are a captain on a ship What you are facing is stormy weather, dark and heavy clouds, and the ship is carried along In such a situation, I strongly trust that it is not enough to purely base your actions It is a great asset if you are able and be able to see the chances that are beyond any learned knowledge. Sharpening the senses and being able to see possibilities beyond what the eyes are able to see, this truly is a sign of right knowledge. Now, not everyone and not everyone is facing the same circumstances but there are methods that can make to safely find our way. In order to shed light on the world, "There is one Earth but billions of different worlds Before we continue to go deeper into the possibilities, let me introduce you to the world (Music) (Video) (Practitioners) Huh! (Gong) Shi Heng Yi: When is the time that I can influence my life? When is the time It is exactly now. The greatest challenge, that would bring out is to cultivate and master yourself. To regain control, we must train the mind to be more present, to live in the here and now, and to find the answers within ourselves. To perceive every moment as they are and to feel the most subtle changes within and continuously work on it, that is the essential practice. What does my body, what do my feelings The martial art is an instrument, an instrument able to teach us and about the way of life. All practices have one single goal: to regain balance - starting step by step and to implement these principles with the purpose of bringing out The master guides the way, but the student walks it. [There're two mistakes [not starting it There are many ways for the expression It can be calligraphy. It can be the Buddhist practices. But the most well-known expression Regardless of their appearance, It is to explore and discover the potential that lies and especially the mind. Our body is regarded as the vehicle that transports us from place to place. Therefore, a great amount to the practice When you're starting your first it is often also known as walking because to some extent and at some point, depending on your level of practice, it is impossible to ignore that your body and mind are going through. We think we know our body. But, being perfectly honest, we don't. There is so much more to learn, Ever since, we are looking for answers. Now, please apologize if you're misunderstanding But, despite the common opinion that the Shaolin teachings are derived they are not. Let's assume you're asking me, I could answer: "The newspaper said it's cloudy." "My mother told me it is stormy." If I rely on the forecast, I am wrong. If I rely on the newspaper, I'm wrong. There can only be one real answer, which is not based upon belief or any conceptualized idea. It is by watching up the sky answering. So, therefore, the next suggestion derive answers from action and experience, and don't rely on intellectual knowledge Now, talking about conceptualized ideas, I would like to share Who would have guessed In ancient times, it was a great honor to be able with the only obligation to not talk. So the story goes that Master Lao Tsu took one of his disciples on a walk to take a glimpse When they arrived just on time, the student was filled with such "This is so beautiful!" When they returned back, Master Lap Tsu never took because no matter no matter how many sentences experience can't be replaced by words. Words are limited, sentences are limited, books and stories are limited. Their only purpose is to guide But these findings must come Now as a result of such teachings the amount of words used because ultimately, it is your actions, it is your behavior, it is the small and subtle movements that serve as the ultimate expression [Summary] To summarize this talk and as a guideline these are the three points Take full responsibility in your hands and learn how to properly navigate. Observe more, free from judgment, free from discrimination. Lessen the ignorance and try to create immersive And lastly, practice to see and also hear beyond the obvious things. This world is not going to remember you by your personal achievements. It is going to remember you by the contribution May all of us be blessed Thank you.