Let me tell you a story about the invisible thing going to teach you some skills to stop letting I was super pregnant, super tired, exhausted, growing a human inside of me, I had to go to Home into the closest parking spot I could find, but the stall in front of me was sticking out into my in. And twisting around to like back out find a with my huge stomach. So I just checked to make into the store. I got what I needed, came back had left a business card on my window. But it at parking.&quot; It said, &quot;F you. Learn to drive, you I would have laughed this off, but not today. Not thought. &quot;Poor me. I'm having a bad day, and this &quot;What's their stupid problem?&quot; I thought. &quot;They business cards.&quot; Okay. I definitely cried a little on the pregnancy hormones. So why was I so upset? someone put a mean card on my window, but that situation; they come from how we think about the of paper; I was upset because I interpreted that I was surrounded by a mean and dangerous world, the stress response, the fear response. Without as threatening. And this was thanks to automatic think that the situation, the trigger is what hundreds of possible ways I could have interpreted they're probably just an unhappy human being with wouldn't have cared much. Maybe I would have maybe they're working on their anger management. my tires,&quot; then I would have felt relieved. And people pleaser who is doing therapy homework to learning and practicing,&quot; I would have left accomplishments. How we think about a situation thoughts are involuntary, habitual thoughts. They or they predict disaster. the impact of automatic your perspective, trigger strong emotions, and example, you might not go to a social activity you'll have a terrible time, and that can lead and a cycle of feeling worse and worse. in this thoughts that fuel the anxiety cycle and lead aren't even aware of the types of thoughts and then we'll talk about both a CBT and Most people don't know that when you have your brain actually shrink. But most people also you can actually change the physical structure of into the brain to show us that the brain has you think and how you act. Now, most people have mental health, so that's why I made the course Anxiety and Depression. In this course you'll connected. You'll learn what to eat to combat actually changes the serotonin levels in your than anti-depressants for mild to moderate your sleep, 87% of people see their depression by research, and many of them only take a few check out the link below. The course is backed just curious about what the research says about improve your depression or anxiety, check it out. the other day. My top three assumptions when the police telling me that everyone is dead. Number Isn't this how anxiety works? But usually it's swimming in automatic thoughts that we don't even thoughts a day. I don't know many people who only about what others think about us, about some about the catastrophic outcomes that are sure to because of your genes; you're anxious because And you perceive the world as a dangerous place thoughts. When we look at the anxiety cycle, as being dangerous, and that's what triggers the So the vast majority of the time it's the in danger. But most of the time we don't realize feel a certain way. Victor Frankl said, &quot;Between in that space lies our freedom and power to choose our freedom.&quot; And he would know - he survived didn't. He survived the horrors of World War meaning and goodness in life. When we feel fear looking through the lens of our automatic negative These thoughts are like we're walking down the stuff. Right? &quot;Hey, you need a new phone.&quot; &quot;You &quot;You definitely need to see this show.&quot; &quot;Hey, It's a normal experience to run across people have random thoughts pop into your head. But most thoughts. It's like we don't have any skills to talk with each salesperson, listen to what they called buying your thoughts. It's when you believe if you want what they're selling. And you don't reason we're feeling the way we are is because of are just like the air we breathe. Let me share their automatic negative thoughts are, and here's of everything going wrong, and then I shame I'm not lovable. I'm broken.&quot; &quot;I won't be able to at all in my life.&quot; &quot;It's too much. I can't handle episode is never going to go away.&quot; &quot;Something is about to happen next.&quot; &quot;Why am I like this? Why around me are relaxed and don't seem to anticipate sound nice&quot; (about any praise or compliments). about me.&quot; &quot;I'm never going to be good enough.&quot; feel in your body after hearing those. Honestly, heavy, a little discouraged, a little anxious. thoughts? Step one is getting super clear on in this um section of the course, we're going to for now we just have to take these thoughts from thingies. Right? You've got to catch yourself section in your workbook where you wrote down Now we've got to explore the thoughts that are in to give you some examples. Okay. So my sister once was hanging out with a brand-new friend. And they all their kids. And then she gets home. And this afraid-of-germs type person. They get home, and her daughter's hair after playing with the clean &quot;Oh my gosh, she's going to hate me. She's going to hang out with me again. No one will.&quot; And then, would our body have an anxiety response around a species completely depend on our community for if I get rejected I'll die of starvation. and I'll die.&quot; So when we notice these thought, we from them and realize, you know what, we're reject me. She might not even be mad. She might challenge those thoughts. We separate ourselves one. You're laying in bed, got a big day ahead start having thoughts like, &quot;I'm never going to tomorrow. I'm going to snap at my kids all day or be awful to get back to sleep.&quot; Um and that leads I'll ruin my relationship with my kids, and that's that rejection fear, like now I'll die pain. I'm afraid of pain.&quot; These are the core death, failure, loss of identity. These are the one: your boss gives you some negative feedback failure. I never do anything right. He's such a to &quot;I'm going to get fired.&quot; Yeah. That's that's to kick off the anxiety response. &quot;My husband is going to run out of money and die of starvation&quot; what would happen if instead of those thoughts we this is an opportunity to learn. I can learn development if he's willing to give me feedback.&quot; situation, right? Or you could just say, &quot;Oh, I'm story. Man, you sure come up a lot. I don't really later though. Okay. Uh here's another example: &quot;This anxiety is never going to go away.&quot; &quot;This that thought leads to the belief, &quot;I will feel So how are these automatic negative thoughts feel? Okay. Step two: thoughts aren't facts. Your spend your day with these thoughts swirling around the crazy thing is, you don't even realize it. stopping the anxiety cycle? The second step is literally just makes a ton of thoughts all the So your job is to create a little space between managing automatic negative thoughts: CBT and ACT. them to you. The classic approach to negative therapy. With CBT it's like mental Judo. You learn them out with thoughts that are more balanced and the thought in order to choose something more gave me negative feedback at work,&quot; the classic accurate?&quot; and then replace them with thoughts right. Last week I did a great job with that to mind these alternate facts. Right? Say like, going to learn new skills to solve this. I can get a really simple but a powerful way to stop buying something more accurate and helpful. And there's this process. And just as a reminder, during this it's not like you can just do them one time and that you're going to want to practice over and easier for you to do throughout your day. Okay. ACT calls cognitive defusion. With acceptance and negative thoughts. Instead, you learn to sit around. Um you're also encouraged to take actions give your life a sense of meaning and purpose, is believing the salesman, you know, um believing awful, freedom isn't arguing with the salesman; argue with our thoughts or we spend a lot of we just end up overthinking and feeling more cognitive fusion, right, where we might buy the arguing with them and debating them, that we don't We just keep going in circles. Like, it's like if we aren't buying what they're selling, if we're with them we aren't going where we were going. We we're going. We're just stuck there arguing with pattern with anxiety and depression. Freedom down the street, knowing what we do and we don't salesman only if it helps us. Right? So to do this and this is called cognitive defusion. So instead notice these thoughts, separate ourselves from the to be helpful for us to live the life we dream of. don't want to see that show in Las Vegas. Right? from the salesman so that we can evaluate what's can learn and you can practice a lot, but you &quot;I'm such a loser&quot; to saying &quot;I'm having the &quot;I hate feeling anxious&quot; you could say &quot;I'm having you're doing is creating a degree of separation there are some really practical ways to learn to too long, so we're we're going to practice more I just wanted to give you an overview. So from be quite helpful. I'll often try the CBT first, vacuum cleaner.&quot; Um or to your negative thoughts, then if that thought is super persistent I'll just essentially ignoring the salesman and walking but it's not super helpful. Okay. Now, back to to be there and redirecting your attention back So just to summarize: automatic negative thoughts word machine of a brain pops out all the time. contribute to anxiety because that perception is dangerous or threatening triggers the fear for what they are - just thoughts - challenge helpful to you, whether that's a more realistic matters to you. Automatic negative thoughts don't for the next week: sit down with your workbook you to feeling anxious. See if you can explore feel feel like you're in danger. Do this at least to just schedule in a time to do this instead and you can print extra copies of the worksheet here. Thanks for watching. In the next video [Music]