Between the sixteenth and the eighteenth centuries, conquered the American continent, establishing Spain, Portugal, France, England, the Netherlands, Denmark and Scotland, managed to set up colonies of the region. But one of the major powers of the time, which to venture into the New World, did not partake In this video, we will learn why the Ottoman states in the colonization of the Americas. In our opinion learning new stuff and developing In our fast-paced world it is often difficult social lives and hobbies take most of our It is natural to think that you don't have of this video - Blinkist is here to help This is a unique app that takes the most important thousands of nonfiction books, condensing As we have to work almost 24/7 to produce personal growth. If you are interested in the history of the Discovery, by Ian Goldin and Chris Kutarna, century and our era and The Silk Roads by of the trade network across Asia. The first 100 people to go to blinkist.com/kingsandgenerals to try it out. You'll also get 25% off if you want the To understand why the Ottoman Empire did not analyze the causes that drove the European Americas, and that brought the knowledge of At the fall of Constantinople in 1453, the over the Spice trade coming from Asia through They imposed heavy taxes on all the exports the Republic of Venice were allowed to trade goods in the rest of Europe as a monopoly. Many European states were frustrated with the Italian city, and one of those states Portugal already had a tradition of expanding by a desire to spread the Christian faith place in the Iberian peninsula in the Late In 1415, King Joao had occupied the Moroccan North African coast at the southern mouth His son, Henry the Navigator, would continue the Atlantic Ocean. His contemporary and biographer Gomez Eanes fueled by the zeal of God, by the desire for the east, to know how powerful the Muslim and to fight the Moors of North Africa. While gold, ivory, and slaves are not mentioned that the Portuguese were eager for those, that traveled through the Sahara desert and Also, the input of the Prince might have been by modern historians, as after his death in south. The efforts of the deeply Christian Prince of the Azores and Madeira islands, where sugar Atlantic coast of Africa, where outposts, to trade with the locals Africans and to attract In the second half of the fifteenth century, Sao Tome and Principe, and the Congo river. In 1488, the explorer Bartolomeu Dia rounded Atlantic and Indian Oceans were connected. At the same time, two agents sent by king de Paiva, entered the Indian Ocean through Ethiopia. These travels made Pero advise the king to it seemed the most secure of the options. The return of Dias was followed by the news who was hired by the Kings of Castile and Indian markets, had encountered land to the As Columbus had not brought back any spices, a different landmass from Asia, the Portuguese African route, as the Treaty of Tordesillas, In 1497, the Portuguese explorer Vasco da of Africa, and sailed all the way to Calicut the Indian spices to the newly established Bases were set up along the way, and it would with the Arab merchants that populated the At the start of the fifteen hundreds, various of them all the Mamluks, and the Portuguese Red Sea, starving the Egyptian state of spices. This caused the finances of the Mamluks to the Ottoman conquest of Egypt and Syria in into Arabia and the Red Sea. This brought the Ottoman Empire to the coast the expanding Turk state. In 1555, the Ottomans would consolidate their the expense of the Safavids, and by taking to the Persian Gulf. All this propelled the Ottomans to become With access to both the Mediterranean Sea have started to venture into the New World, of doing so. In 1517, the Turkish captain Ahmed Muhiddin map to Sultan Selim, which he had produced one from Columbus. On this map the New World is marked as "Vilayet The term Vilayet usually applied to an administrative that the Ottomans had some interests in America. In his diary, Piri Reis writes that a Spanish seven Spanish ships, seizure of which has This Spanish captive revealed that he had same number of voyages Columbus had partaken This is also confirmed by the names on the Columbus used, such as Wadluk for Guadeloupe Other pieces of information could have come during those years, and it's very possible in Spain and Portugal who kept the Islamic kingdoms. This would confirm that the Ottoman Sultans Atlantic Ocean. Sometimes it is said that the Ottomans did the high seas with Portugal and Spain. This is, however, a myth, as we have already the Christian kingdoms in the Mediterranean Portugal with a similar course in the Indian states for Muslim merchants, and protecting from the Portuguese in 1564. In 1627 Barbary corsairs managed to reach with them. It has to be remembered in fact that some such as the caravel and the compass, took discoveries. One glaring problem, however, was the geographic On the other side of the African continent, Sea by Spain, the Ottomans found themselves to reach the Americas. This was certainly not impossible, but it rest of the European colonial powers. Also, they would have had to compete with numerous bases. One way to overcome this problem was expanding It's not unlikely that one of the reasons to reach the Moroccan Atlantic coast, and In the beginning, the Ottomans were quite their wing the rulers of Algiers, most prominent at the expense of Spain into modern-day Algeria The main roadblock was the staunchly independent Morocco had been ruled from 1472 by the Wattasid The Wattasids never managed to establish full northern city of Fez, they lost various cities they lost the city of Marrakesh to the rulers dynasty. The Saadi would continue to expand from the by their leader, Mohammed Al-Sheikh, and he Seeing an opportunity, the Ottomans attempted 1554, but they were expelled and the prince They also tried to leverage their diplomatic as their overlords, but to no avail, and instead, Oran in Algeria. In the end, the frustrated Ottoman sultan Al-Sheikh assassinated in 1557, and have his themselves with the European powers and blocked the Ottomans. In the end, though, the main reason for why to challenge the territories in the New World of the new continent was still greatly unknown us who can attest to this in hindsight. Conversely, trade in the Indian Ocean was before the times of the Roman Empire, and trade had become even richer, funneling the Silk Road. Columbus had sailed east to reach the Indies, a voyage to the Indian Ocean. Interest in the Indian Ocean was quite simply Silks were imported from the Chinese Empires, and ginger were harvested and bought in India Attesting to the wealth that the spice trade The Ottoman empire focused instead on securing by expanding into modern-day Yemen and Eritrea, Muslim princes in the Indian Ocean. More advanced gunpowder weapons and ships, of the Holy Cities inherited from the Mamluks, Muslim powers, and they would for years battle the trade routes in the region. At the end of the sixteenth century, the Ottoman of the century, and their expansion halted that would continue into the seventeenth century. Suleiman the Magnificent supervised the Ottoman in 1566, cracks that had already appeared Corruption, factionalism, and infighting paralyzed states ability to expand and partake in overseas The influx of precious metals into Europe in the Ottoman Sultanate, which led to poverty, This is not to say that the Ottoman Empire for three centuries, but it did put a dent power. Externally, the many foes of the House of Following the annihilation of the Turkish still managed to rebuild their fleet in a that could not easily be replaced. It showed that they could not just force the against the Iberians would be hard and costly. The defence of the Habsburgian border, and also kept the resources of the Ottoman empire To conclude, the lack of a Turkish presence geographic limits, their competitors on the of the trade in the Indian Ocean. We always have more stories to tell, so make have pressed the bell button. We would like to express our gratitude to who make the creation of our videos possible. Now, you can also support us by buying our This is the Kings and Generals channel, and