This video has been Ever since I started this channel, I've been making stinky chemicals, and some of my favorites have been which are supposed I've also made some other fun ones like and I've even recreated a horrible mixture All of these, though, are apparently nothing compared which is supposed to be Everything that I've read about it and according to Wikipedia, it's actually considered due to its extremely foul odor and its ability to render people What's also concerning is that the smell and it apparently has the ability This was unfortunately when some scientists accidentally The horrible smell was then able to quickly spread out and it caused people to faint and vomit, There are even some claims and that it's possible to smell even at a quarter mile away. Based on all of this, it really does sound like but I honestly just Even though all of these claims are coming from it just doesn't seem possible All of this made me and I just felt that I had to know and to experience the horror myself. Sadly, though, and it doesn't seem like If I wanted to see if it was actually it was unfortunately looking and I was going to have to make it myself. But anyway, to get started, the first thing that I had to do I went online, and it seemed to be From what I found, the typical method convert that into something and then split that apart to release The only problem was that I couldn't find any real details and I guess this makes sense because I don't think anyone However, I then noticed on Wikipedia that it mentioned the people These were actually the same scientists and I figured it would probably be them. I just went back to Google, and their original paper I was honestly shocked except it took me way too long With Google Translate, though, I was hopeful that this and I just copy-pasted The result that I got and I felt that it was more Now, with a decent idea of what to do, Based on the procedure, it seemed relatively simple, was get some regular acetone and bubble some This alone normally but I apparently had to do it This is because hydrogen sulfide is almost meant that I was going The only somewhat good part is that making it is relatively easy, and to get started, I just needed a bunch What I had to do next so I dumped a bunch along with some of the powdered iron. I then quickly sealed it and I started shaking it around. I had to do this and after a few minutes, I went and got a lid of a paint can, I then did my best Now, it was time for the fun part. To get things going, all I had to do and then carefully touch the mixture. Normally, this would almost except for some reason, This made me a bit worried were bad or something, They finally started reacting together and combining and it was also letting off a lot of heat. Over the years, I've actually and it has always The last time I did it was when I made and I don't think It's just mesmerizing, After a while, though, but it was still extremely hot, When I came back to it it was looking pretty good. Now, all I had to do was separate and it was surprisingly easy. I then started crushing it and that was about it. What I had now which is a stored form To actually turn this I'd have to put together so I dumped it all into a flask. After that, I took away the funnel, cleaned up the joints and started putting To do this, I added a stopper, for the hydrogen sulfide At this point, the scary generator and it was time I went and got another little flask I had no idea how much and I just randomly Then on top of this, I added which was an equal amount Now, with the flask fully loaded, and I slid in some glass tubing that was connected I then sealed and into the one on the right, This one would lead to something called which would hopefully destroy that made it through the system. The fume hood that I was doing this in should have been but I just wanted to be extra careful. So I just filled this beaker and at this point, I then went back to the reaction flask, added a bowl under it, It was going to take a few minutes so while I waited, The last thing that I had to do was fill the addition funnel and I just poured in a bunch I then sealed it with a stopper, but for safety reasons, This way, this stopper would just pop out But anyway, at this point, it was pretty much good to go, I was honestly a little bit nervous, for a potential disaster, The moment that the acid it started reacting All of this scary gas and through the tubing It was then bubbling through the acetone and honestly, it really didn't look In theory, though, it was supposed and turning it into the trithioacetone. This form of it but it was supposed to be The only part that made me a bit paranoid was that technically, thioacetone It was just an intermediate, though, and it was supposed to almost immediately but still, this meant that if I bubbled it was possible that some thioacetone This could then potentially and get pulled away by my fume hood, and if it were as bad it could be a big problem. The amount of hydrogen sulfide had to be very carefully controlled. Besides that, though, things were actually looking pretty good, until it was done, The only sad part and I had to watch it For the next hour, though, it still looked like and I started thinking However, it then suddenly turned cloudy and I was really happy to see this. I then kept it going, and I definitely felt that it was It was only when it hit that I really started to get excited. It wasn't super obvious, but it looked like there was a bit of oil This was a really good sign is supposed to be an oily liquid. Around the same time, though, was running out of iron sulfide, To continue, I was going to have that was full of new iron sulfide. I was also going and it was far With the fresh sulfide, though, About an hour later, when I slowed down the stirring, At first, it was hard to see, but there were actually some small Then, after another couple of hours, I was really trying but at this point, It was, of course, right at this moment and told me that he smelled something. Yo, it kind of smells bad outside. This made me panic. I quickly ran outside to investigate, and it did smell, but I couldn't figure out and I figured it was But anyway, and adjusting the bubbling rate, which was honestly In the paper, though, it said that it was either 10-12 hours When I started this reaction, I was really hoping but I never saw any real difference. I just ended up going When it was eventually done, though, and the first thing that I had to do I was a bit nervous and unleashing some terror, I was able to just pop it out and I didn't smell anything. However, I wasn't sure if this was just because my fume hood or that I hadn't actually But either way, the next step, was to add a bunch of water to it. I pulled out the middle stopper, and I started pouring in This was supposed to knock out and it definitely I figured this would so I resealed the flask As it sat there, it seemed to be working, and I was really happy to see However, I was also because the paper made it It claimed that there should be as much oil but that definitely wasn't the case. It looked like there was a decent amount, but it was nowhere Either way, and I also got rid What I was left with and now, assuming I had to figure out how to get it out. According to the paper, all I had to do was steam distill it, This is because steam distilling is exactly how Even though this still made me I didn't really have so I decided to just go for it. However, at this point, so I had to leave it overnight. The next day, I actually woke up but that was almost immediately destroyed I was hit with a really and I panicked that there When I checked on the flask everything looked totally fine. It was nothing catastrophic, was where was Well, apparently, an almost invisibly small I'd then thrown that glove and just that speck This actually scared me, that all the stories might be true and that I should However, there was also So I started setting it up this meant that I was going I wasn't super excited to do this, but I figured if I just left my glove in the fume hood. But either way, now in place, I then added a thermometer, I also added the water cooling and I set up a vial At this point, but I still wasn't I guess I'm ready There was nothing so I just switched on the heating It actually ended up going and within a few minutes, and I started collecting When I looked at the thermometer, though, and this told me that it This made sense because and I assumed However, as I kept collecting it, It just didn't seem to stop, and it was slowly creeping towards The reaction clearly didn't go but I still had hope. Thankfully, and the temperature started rising. It then gradually crept up and this was the beginning This was when the trithioacetone and I quickly swapped out the vial. I then waited for something and I was eventually greeted This was actually mostly water, but it was cloudy because the water vapor In theory, and this process of distilling it from boiling water It's basically allowing me to distill it which reduces the risk and ruining my life. But anyway, I then covered the flask to help the water come over, I also opened the addition funnel at roughly the same rate Now, going back to the vial, I saw that everything was just a hazy liquid. As I collected more, though, and I started seeing What I also really liked was that unlike this one was sitting at the bottom, This was a very good sign is supposed to be Eventually, it looked like I was basically just distilling pure water, Just to be absolutely sure I took away this vial and replaced it with a fresh one. I then kept collecting the water, but it didn't look like At this point, I considered it done, and I was honestly shocked It ended up being way more tame and at least as far as I knew, I then went and checked on all the oil and it had combined It was nowhere near the 15 mills but if this were trithioacetone, It was also probably pretty stinky, and I was really curious However, I was also scared so I tried just smelling it It actually doesn't smell bad at all. It just smells like grape, fruit, candy. I was honestly extremely surprised about how something so I looked up what and I was actually This is because it can apparently smell tropical But anyway, what I had to do next was separate this I went and got a pipette and I I was doing my best to only get the oil, but I also did end up getting I then shot it into a much smaller vial and I attempted to get It ended up being a bit of a struggle but I was able to get rid At this point, and the only issue was that because there was To clear it up, I added some calcium About 10 minutes later, but just for good measure, Then after another 30 minutes of waiting, What I had now was and according to the paper, it should freeze when it's cooled down. To test this out, I put it into some ice Then when I came back to it I was really happy with what I saw. It had completely solidified, and it had formed The moment that I saw this, I was basically 99.5% sure that this To be absolutely sure, though, I quickly ran it on my machine and this was what it gave me. It was basically a fingerprint and all I had to do next was find I then did the super complicated of just comparing their shapes, and I saw that they Then just for good measure, and I again got exactly Now, I was 100% sure that I had However, before trying to turn this I felt that I had to know what It's supposed to only be but I had to get at least some I already smell it from here. It's like just sulfury. It reminds me a bit of It just has a nasty, It's not that bad. But now I'll open it and see Still not that bad. What's worse is just and just leaves a weird That's actually worse than its pure form. But it's still not that bad. Yeah, it's not that bad. Are you done? It's so bad. -Can you smell it from there? Dude, your nose. I smell it. That's the nastiest thing I'm about to throw up. No. Yeah. In general, I'm pretty resistant to But having my friend react like this This is because the thioacetone is There was no way I was going to be in my fume hood or anywhere near and in my mind, I rented an entire island, so I'd be far away The only downside was it would be way harder to get away. But I figured I'd deal with that later. When I eventually got to the island, and I tried to find what I felt When I eventually found| I went back and got all my supplies, This was thankfully, really easy, and the biggest and most complicated Besides this, the other main thing with a small flask attached to it. With all this in place, and the first thing that I had to do This wasn't so much for safety, though, and it was just because on my hands or my clothes. With all my protection in place, I was able to pull out which I thought transporting would However, by sealing it in a Neogene bottle I was actually able to completely block That wasn't the case now, though, and I was immediately blessed Yeah, it still smells terrible. I then got a glass pipette and I carefully I don't think we need I ended up getting a bit more than I went back and pulled out most of it Now, with it all loaded, and there was just one It was a vacuum pump, and all I had to do To do this, I just spun around the adapter to make sure that the grease made I then turned it on After about a minute, so I carefully turned I then turned off the pump and at this point, It was now finally time and in theory, I was honestly a bit scared that Lots of confidence. But again, there was When I felt that I was ready, The goal here was to just heat it up It's boiling. This is because at that temperature, the trithioacetone was supposed to crack The vacuum was important and it should also But anyway, after blasting it for a while, I eventually felt that it That's definitely a 500 C. Okay. There's a nice vapor in there. I feel scared. At this point, I felt that but the flask was still really hot, When I came back to it it was only slightly warm, Now, I guess this was and I really didn't know what to expect. I guess all we need to do is and open it. I really thought that the moment that it was opened, but even when I didn't notice anything crazy. It smelled pretty much the same and considering how much I smell something. I was disappointed. It was possible that I just had a broken so I asked my poor friend Yeah, it does stink. But is it different than before? No, it smells like before. It smells the same. Nothing's changed. It didn't seem like and I figured that it was because To properly split it apart, I was going to have so that it for sure got What was nice was that it still looked like there was a bunch so I didn't have to reload it. All I had to do was reattach Then, about 30 seconds later, I turned I was now ready to blast it, and this time I decided and I would go until I was Okay, I think that that was hot enough, and it's starting to like, What I started noticing was that From what I read online, this was actually a very good sign This is because thioacetone so it tends to start polymerizing I was now very confident and I was getting pretty excited. What I had to do now but I was worried that all Instead, I just pulled and I did a quick No. Then after that, and I was mentally preparing Oh. Unlike last time, it actually smelled almost immediately, But it also wasn't nearly I don't know if it's worse. I then tried smelling the flask directly, but I just didn't feel This whole time, though, I could hear -Do you smell it? It reeks. It smells so bad. I felt bad for him, because he was not only far away, However, I then remembered that thioacetone actually smelled so, I decided to try holding to see if it would make a difference. When it was up close, and it was a slightly rancid Further away, though, mixed with sewage, However, I still didn't think it was that this was the chemical I then started thinking, though, that maybe I was just working All of the stories make it sound like this but at the end of the day, To get a big result, it would and when I went back and read they were apparently working with which is absolutely insane. I didn't have anything but I put in most of what I had left, I also felt that with a lot more, I didn't need to use a vacuum, Just like before, as I heated it, and then it eventually Unlike last time, though, all of the vapor started slowly turning At this point, though, I still didn't smell anything because However, considering I was getting a bit concerned. But anyway, I eventually felt and it was time to test it out. But let's go down to wind a little bit. Oh, yeah. It was definitely a lot stronger but it was also the same thing, and I just One thing that I hadn't tested yet, I'm going to go deeper in the forest. This was something that so I tried going a bit further away. However, I quickly realized that I was probably the worst person because I clearly Yeah, I think I can still smell it, I asked my friend behind Up until now, the wind had been strong but that unfortunately changed for him It stinks. What on 10, what is it now? Like 10 on 10. He was clearly a lot more Oh, disgusting. And it seemed to get even worse Oh, where does it stop? Oh, no. I honestly thought this was funny, but then it looked like Dude, it still stinks. It then continued to get worse. It gets stronger right here. I still wasn't really concerned It's going to travel across the... I had honestly rented this island mostly because I thought and I didn't actually However, we weren't exactly There were still a bunch of houses, and I was genuinely Kind of concerned that Besides its horrible I was also starting to realize one It doesn't smell like No, it's 360-degree smell. There was no clear direction and I could see how Also, without knowing the source, I could see how someone could interpret it It also seemed to really stick around, and even after several minutes, Shut it down. Shut it down. He's angry, too. Eventually, though, and at this point, However, I was still somewhat concerned and I really didn't want to have So I quickly dismantled and I packed it all in my car. I then transported all of the horribly, and it was a somewhat But anyway, in the end, I had successfully made and I'm very happy that I got It wasn't quite as overwhelmingly bad but it made up for that and I was genuinely I can totally see how could terrorize an entire town. On that scale, I wouldn't be surprised if at least For the most part, I think that it's pretty much and it's almost definitely one In the future, I might try making some I think I'm going to take Instead, I'm going to try and focus like turning paint thinner Before I go, though, named Lab Coats, who technically I only realized this after and was putting the video together. But either way, I think he deserves credit and I definitely recommend checking Also, I want to give a big thanks for making projects like this possible, and to brilliant.org If you haven't ever heard of Brilliant, it's a website with in things like math, I think they teach them This is because all and I think it makes it What I also like is that and I don't ever feel On top of that, each lesson and course is so there isn't even I'm actually working on a few courses even when I just randomly In particular, though, I've been and I've been With all that being said, though, and if you're interested in learning I definitely recommend checking them out. You can also get started for free or by clicking The first 200 people will also get 20% off But yeah, that's about it. I'm going to go vomit. Actually? Probably not, As usual, a big thanks goes out Everyone who supports me can before I post them to YouTube. You'll also get access to all and if you support me you'll get your name