(mystical gong music) - [Narrator] Across the on the Giza Plateau, in is one of the true wonders of the world. For nearly 5,000 years, its in mystery, controversy, and uncertainty. How long has it been there? Who built it, and when? Why was it built? Whose face is on it? Are there secret chambers underneath? These questions have and experts for centuries. But after all the theories, excavations, and disputes, are we finally able to solve the mysteries of the Sphinx? (dramatic music) (distant thudding) July 1798, Napoleon invaded Egypt. In a dust storm, with the Battle of Pyramids Shortly after achieving one Napoleon came across something unexpected, a bizarre object few The 29-year-old conqueror was in awe of the colossal head What is it? What does it represent? He had to know more about this bruised and battered creation, and - Napoleon came with a whole team, not only a military expedition, which was the main purpose of his visit, but he came with a engineers, scholars, and artists. - And for the next three years or so, they proceeded to record what they saw. In fact, in virtually record time, they documented a great number of the monuments of Egypt, including the Sphinx. In fact, there's a wonderful drawing that shows people on with a plumb line measuring it. (tense music) - [Narrator] Many of examined by Napoleon's with what may be the oldest After the fall of Ancient the meaning of hieroglyphics remained a complete mystery for In 1799, an officer in stumbled across a slab of granite near a city called Rosetta. The stone contained the same message inscribed in three different languages. When fully translated, the Rosetta Stone would prove to be the key to unlocking the secrets of Ancient Egypt. When the French were driven out of Egypt by the British in 1801, they left with countless treasures, but without learning any It would be another 18 years before the strange and ruined head would give up any of its secrets. 1816, the first known modern was carried out by a Giovanni Caviglia. - Caviglia came in a time, he can do anything. He could excavate and drill in any place. No one will stop him. - [Narrator] Having heard local rumors and legends of secret Caviglia searched for a He cleared sand from the neck, and was astonished to was attached to the 240 feet long and 66 feet high. Between the paws, he found an altar that showed traces of fire. Perhaps, the Sphinx was a temple, and the altar had been used for burnt offerings, purposefully and in constant danger of being crushed by shifting sand. Caviglia kept digging. - Caviglia came and he The theory, he thought there from the paw of the Sphinx This was his theory. He was really one of the new ages of thinking about this big tunnel. He excavated everywhere. He found nothing. - [Narrator] Caviglia, however, did make a major discovery, the Dream Stele, an upright stone slab The Rosetta Stone its tantalizing inscription, dated back to the 14th century B.C., and recounted the exploits of - And he indicates that he slept in the shadow of the Sphinx's head, and that the Sphinx was The sphinx came to him in a dream. - The sphinx talked to &quot;My son Thutmose, I'm dying. &quot;The sand is killing me. &quot;If you remove the sand away, &quot;I will make you the king And we found there is something because he killed his elder brother, who was supposed to be the king of Egypt, and therefore, he was telling everyone that they should forget because the god, it chose - Well, I would view it You know, whether it happened or not, how can you tell, you Something is a bit difficult to say, but it is certainly also to say that the god decided would become king, so it's - The guys was so thrilled. He's a nobleman, he's had money. He got some troops, cleaned up the sand, fixed it up, and he became pharaoh. So, (chuckles) when the Sphinx - [Narrator] The Dream Stele contained what appeared to be a partial reference to a king of a thousand years before, named Khafre, who built Thutmosis seemed, in some way, to be connecting Khafre to the Sphinx, but the inscription was eroded, and the intent unclear. The Dream Stele would become a benchmark for all future controversies Thutmosis was the first to clear the sand away from the Sphinx, but he was not the last. - The sand that is brought in by the wind, that comes in actually from and veers by this rock finds a hole in the ground as far as nature is concerned. It silts, so every time the that moat is filled with sand. And that happened repeatedly. (clicking) - [Narrator] With the invention of film, the Sphinx became a favorite This photo taken by Maxine du Camp in 1849 was the first ever shot at the monument. (clicking) Thousands more followed. (mystical gong music) The first moving pictures of the Sphinx, rarely seen, were made in 1902 by the pioneering French filmmakers, the Lumiere brothers. Mostly, the Sphinx was and photo opportunity, not as the subject for serious scientific study, (swooshing) until 1922, when a startling discovery brought international obsession with Egyptian antiquities to an all-time high. - [Announcer] An English headed by a man named Howard Carter sought to uncover the tomb of an ancient Egyptian The world had been given a glimpse of its earliest civilization. The tomb's priceless objects added their story to the jigsaw puzzle of antiquities' mysteries. - [Narrator] Interest in the mysteries of the Sphinx was also revived. In 1925, Engineer Emil Baraize supervised the first full clearing He also undertook a highly - Baraize started his excavation for the Egyptian antiquities suaves, and he did also the restoration of the nemes, cloth of the Sphinx, a restoration which would - There was a serious thought that a bad desert storm and concrete was fitted under the head in a sort of vague approximation of what the original wig coming down to the shoulders, not a very good approximation, completely altered the look of the thing. I mean, you look at it now, you look at modern pictures of it, you know, modern filming of it, then you look at this It's almost a different thing. Its character was changed terrifically by those restorations, which I believe, and some Egyptologists We should get it back throughout most of its history. (tense music) - [Narrator] One of the more appeared during World War II. For the first time, men actually covered the Sphinx in sand, erecting a beard of sandbags to protect the monument from Nazi bombs. (suspenseful music) Ever since Napoleon first modern man has struggled No written history of the No details of its creation seem to have been inscribed in stone or on papyrus. Who made it, and when? For what purpose? The answer to these compelling questions can only be revealed by moving forward into the past. (suspenseful music) The Great Sphinx is a cut from limestone bedrock. It rests in a moat-like enclosure, quarried out, most experts believe, for blocks to build the pyramids and nearby temples. If this is true, then the Sphinx will have been carved sometime between 2520 and 2494 B.C. The monument was a brilliant creation of the most sophisticated But just how did that It is but one more mystery - It was fashionable at one point to say Egyptian culture Or, there was a foreign invasion that brought new ideas to Egypt. Some very interesting, fairly recent work in pre-dynastic and has shown obviously that - If we go back just before 5,000 years, just before the initiation the whole scene would be In the land west of the Nile, from 5,000 years ago to 11,000 years ago, there were, numerously, the there was vegetation, - It was a very rich environment. There were fish in the river to be fished. There were game that were attracted to the waters of the Nile. - They really had developed a very advanced river technology that does not translate into civilization. Therefore, something must have happened 5,000 years ago, to ignite civilization. (suspenseful music) - [Narrator] A massive in the fourth millennium B.C. The lakes dried up, and there was no longer grass for animals. (suspenseful music) For centuries, this part of the country had been inhabited by desert people, Bedouin-type bands that roamed the land. To save their lives, and the desert people migrated of water they knew, the Nile. - They had desert wisdom. They knew how to deal They knew how to deal with rocks. So, we have this whole bunch of people that had desert wisdom, mix with very sedentary people that had river technology. And I believe it was interesting mix between the two cultures and the cross fertilization of ideas, that ignited Egyptian civilization. - This is when we begin to see evidence of more complex societies. Burials become more complex about the middle of the And at the end of the there were certainly rulers and finally a king that emerged. (tense music) - [Narrator] Upper and by King Menes around 3,000 B.C. Under his rule, Egypt experienced an astonishing rate of social and political growth. A mere 500 years later, by the reign of King Khufu, the Egyptians had developed the knowledge and skills to embark on building one of the Seven - This was a time of experimentation, a time of bombasity. The culture had found itself, and was expressing itself in huge, megalithic projects, foremost, the pyramids. - If we leave it up to Hollywood, we think that the pyramids were built by a tyrant who enslaved his people and had them cut the rocks under the threat of the whip. - There were truly no slaves connected with the building. On the contrary, we know that this was a very specialized force of, we would call it pioneer force. - The plain fact is that here was Egypt with a large and highly organized workforce, organized in the first place for agricultural reasons. It was just as well to find in the slacker period of the, you know, political stability poorly depended on it. - If I am king, I would say, &quot;Okay, we collect taxes &quot;all throughout the year. &quot;I'm gonna get them to work on a project, &quot;including this dead month.&quot; - I don't think it was in the sense of, you know, a WPA project, or a wage labor project I think it was more a turning out of the natural communities They didn't have a choice. But it was considered the for the father who ruled you all, which was the pharaoh, to contribute to these - And therefore, in Khufu may have also built (mellow music) - [Narrator] It took 23 years for Khufu to construct the Great Pyramid. Some experts suggest he also built the Sphinx. But was it really Khufu, Four kings reigned during Khufu, Djedefre, Khafre, and Menkaure. Which king put his face on the Sphinx? - Most people believe that Khafre, the king who built the Second Pyramid, also carved the Sphinx. - The Sphinx is carved from a rock within the quarries of Khufu. - So I think it's possible It's possible, but I think that Khafre made the Sphinx. - Now we are completely convinced that it is Khufu who has built it because when you see it in the evening, the light on the face, you'll see this is the face of Khufu. - The Egyptians will never write a paper and say, &quot;The Sphinx built by Khafra,&quot; and give you a proof that They will never do that. But we, as archaeologists excavating for the last 30 we write in books and articles the proof that the Sphinx is dated to Dynasty Four. - One day, I hope when they approve the examinations around the Sphinx, one would discover something or offerings given to the Sphinx with the name of the one - [Narrator] Egyptologists are when it comes to determining which has proven to be as a desert breeze. What was the Sphinx? A representation of the Sun god? An object of cult worship? The powerful guardian In the absence of any old kingdom texts, there can be no certainty However, a key clue is that the Sphinx faces due east into the rising Sun. - A sphinx is the statue of a divinity, and a divinity related to the Sun god. Sphinxes are related to the Sun god. - When the king die, Therefore, I believe that Khufu is the first king in Ancient Egypt, that he made a religious revolution. Khufu was the first king in Ancient Egypt to say in his lifetime, &quot;I'm the Sun god. &quot;I am Ra.&quot; - Khufu was the culmination - And therefore, I who followed him is his son, Khafra, the builder of the Second Pyramid at Giza. Then Khafra actually made to worship with his two paws his father. - [Narrator] Many Egyptologists believe that the Sphinx was designed to play a specific role within the Giza complex. But was its inclusion Or is it possible that there was already something on the plateau, something older than the pyramids, something older than Egypt itself, something that inspired the (mystical gong music) (tense music) When the Fourth Dynasty kings to build their pyramids they found a limestone There, workers quarried to construct the new with a large lump of Many experts believe the Sphinx started life as this rocky remnant, that the shape of the leftover stone suggested monumental possibilities. - In the desert west of the Nile, there are many, many of which we call in geology yardangs, from a Turkic word meaning steep bank. (mellow flute music) One of them, near the was a dead ringer to the Sphinx. When I saw this one and photographed it, I knew that I'm ready my theory and write it up (laughs). And the theory is that in the eastern part there are all kinds of hillocks that have been shaped, first by water erosion, And water erosion makes gullies and makes these hillocks stick out from the ground. Then the wind comes to reshape these. The Ancient Egyptians while they were building the pyramid. But they didn't, because they A clamp, and then aerodynamic back to it. And they decided, &quot;My God, &quot;this we can modify it a little bit &quot;to make it like the shapes in - They just embellished They just shaped what was already there into what they wanted. - [Narrator] In the absence we may never know exactly how the idea for the Sphinx originated. What is definitely known is heavily eroded and decaying, the body, more so than the head. Many explanations have been put forth, but the truth may lie in the rock itself. - The Sphinx was quarried like Mount Rushmore in although there, it's the top of a big mountain, in granite. Here it's limestone. - The Sphinx is carved of some different layers of limestone, and some of those limestone layers weather much better than others. - It's also clear that they know the layering in the rock already, and they knew that the was a very good building stone. And that's why you see detail on the head so well-preserved. We call it member three. You see the eyebrows and the eyes in sculpture that's original, I believe, to the Fourth Dynasty. And then you have member two, which is the body ravaged by weathering. It's a series of layers that but in general, the layers of the body are quite soft and they flake. The bottom layer member one is a good crystalline hard limestone, rather brittle, because it was a coral, and then a shore reef underneath the seafloor. - [Narrator] And what they carved out of the limestone layers was an amazing creature like none other, a half-man, half-lion. The Ancient Egyptians were fascinated by the idea of mixing species, and this was displayed in their art. - The Egyptians were fond of making their own combinations of things. They identify the salient aspects of different things, and combine them in identifying animals for their power, like the lion and the bull, for example, and combining them or some of so that that power would specifically the king, of course. - In Ancient Egypt, the king always wants to show his power. He wants to defeat his enemies. And as always, you can look that the king always hit in a shape of a lion, is a shape of power. - And it was that all-powerful element, that fearsome aspect, that and combined with their monarch. - You know, in Arabic, the meaning father of terror. Father, not in the sense but in Arabic, when you say abu alhawl, that is to say that he is impressing. He conveys terror. (mystical gong music) - [Narrator] Today, and weather-beaten. No one knows exactly what it looked like when it was new. But experts have speculated that its headdress was full, with flaps curling over the shoulders. A spitting cobra, a divinity protecting whoever wore it, graced its forehead, A long sloping divine beard, a symbol of the god-king, As the finishing touch, may have added something surprising to the raw limestone. - Based on my studies of the Sphinx, it looks like it has been painted, maybe more than once at various times. - The Sphinx was a sculpture, and Egyptian sculpture, particularly sculpture made of soft stone was always painted. - The skin, the face would Elements like the beard, the eyebrows would have been in blue. - There were traces of red paint along his eyes and eyebrows, cosmetic lines beautifully outlining the eyes and continuing up to the temples. - And the yellow probably the bands on the headdress, so that you had blue, like the Lapis Lazuli and the gold at Tutankhamun's golden mask. (mellow music) - [Narrator] The Sphinx almost as soon as the workmen departed. There were at least of the Sphinx over the next 1,000 years. The appearance of the when both the divine beard possibly during the new kingdom Fragments of each were and can be seen today in the Cairo Museum and British Museum in London. For nearly 5,000 years, the Sphinx has remained perched on the Giza Plateau, testimony to the fine craftsmanship of the men that carved it. Surprisingly, in spite of all the work and attention lavished on the monument, it is likely that it was never finished. - As a shelf, the (mumbles) This is a common Egyptian thing. The lower chamber in the The vast complex of that's unfinished. I think this was part of you know, the public works. You labored during a king's lifetime on monuments associated with him. When he died, his successor did a hasty sort of tidy up job, and said, &quot;Move the &quot;on the next part of this - Well, it could be that never got cranked up with a living cult during the time that the Sphinx was made. From hundreds, if not we have whole lists of titles, including priests and priestesses, of the gods and goddesses of the time. There's nothing we can recognize as referring to the Sphinx. Now that may ring bells for the new agers, but you see, for Egyptologists, it fits with the evidence that the temple never was completed, and so it didn't have (mysterious music) - [Narrator] Of all the rumors and speculation swirling about the Sphinx, the most popular concerns Who was responsible for When did it happen? How did it happen? To this day, the general public continues to blame the wrong man. (plaintive flute music) Looking at the face of the Sphinx today, one is impressed by the and its faint, inscrutable smile. The limestone has weathered that moving even a few feet causes its expression What one doesn't notice at first, because the Sphinx image is that the nose is missing. - If you will stand in that place, where you see the (mumbles) for one hour, you will hear at least 10 stories. Everyone has an opinion. - [Tour Guide] Now this is the Sphinx, the guardian of the sacred enclosure of the Second Pyramid. - [Woman] And how did the nose get broken? - [Tour Guide] When his artillery men used it as a target and blew the nose off with a cannonball. - Oh! - But I don't think The man that took with him he took them right along with I don't think they will go around an archaeological feature like that and begin to shoot at it with cannons. - Some people will say and they did knock and Others will say no. The Arabs, when they came here, they came right away and they - If you look at the face carefully, there's a deep wedge mark right down the top of the nose here, And there's another deep groove right on the Sphinx's actually left side, and for all the world, that looks to me as though somebody took two big wedges and pounded them in there. And then the nose looks like it was purposefully - (foreign name) visited the Sphinx and (mumbles) from Baghdad. He was there in about 1200 A.D. And he was bawled over It was in good form when he was there. - In the 14th century A.D., it's written by the Arab historian called el-Maqrizi, he wrote that there was a religious man, a Sufi, and he came here. He sounded, the people who lives around still look at the Sphinx He did not like this as a Sufi. And he came with a metal and he damaged the Sphinx's nose to show the people that this - Working here at the Sphinx, I thought it would have been a marvelous discovery to find a big hole in the floor and there would be the nose. But that didn't happen, of course, and nobody knows where (mellow flute music) - [Narrator] The old kingdom and the Giza Plateau Gradually, all knowledge of the monument, its body, purpose, and were lost in the shifting sands of time. (plaintive flute music) The Arabs conquered Egypt in 640 A.D. and brought with them a newfound interest in the lost wealth of the pharaohs. Stories circulated wildly beneath the Sphinx. Arab adventurers found nothing. But their efforts inspired of treasure hunters, - People who think that there and treasures under the Sphinx, or not necessarily gold, But a lot of investigation has been done and nothing was really found. - When I began to be mystery unmeasured. I was really looking for And I was the one who really wanted to find that out of the new age, or true, we are true as scholars. And this why I and Mark Lehner (dramatic music) - [Narrator] The first of these tunnels is located between the paws, and goes less than 15 (suspenseful music) The second is located behind the head, and by early treasure hunters. But the largest of the tunnels is located at the rear of the Sphinx. - We knew about this tunnel from this old man, Sheik Muhammad, who was working for us, and he said that his grandfather told him, &quot;If you remove that stone, &quot;you'll find the tunnel But (foreign name) said that everyone who tried to remove this stone, there's always a curse happen to him. And I told them, &quot;Don't really And we came and we opened these tunnels and we entered inside. But before I and Mark we sent an American friend of us to take the curse first. And we found the tunnel goes for about 45 feet inside the Sphinx body. We found nothing except an old shoes. But what's important that we found out, that the tunnels was cut in the Sphinx was not new tunnels. The method of cutting, and how it was cut, it proved to us that this and not modern tunnels. How? Because people from the late period are very interested in the Sphinx, like we do today. Then all of them, they underneath the Sphinx, there is tunnels, there is secret rooms, and they dig. - When we did the seismic we not only looked at but we looked for other features also. There's a void or cavity or chamber, there's something down there. - The Stanford Research Institute in 1977, and they came and they did make drilling. They went down more than 60 feet in the right paw of the Sphinx. And they found nothing. They found that the or a loving rock, and there is nothing - [Narrator] And yet, the legends persist. Every year, requests are and by academic institutions wanting to employ the latest technology to search for hidden tunnels or chambers. It seems this is one that, for some, will never die. (wind humming) In the early 1990s, a new challenged every accepted Heated debate broke out among experts. - My work on reading been somewhat controversial, One thing that I was struck by is that there are apparently on the Sphinx, in the Sphinx enclosure, and elsewhere on the Giza Plateau. What I'm convinced is that on the body of the Sphinx which was constructed the you find weathering that was clearly the result of rainfall. I feel very confidently that the Sphinx is, yes, older than 2500 B.C., older than dynastic time. Then the big question is, how much older? - That was their vision. It's based on the fact of water erosion on the Sphinx, particularly the upper And that is true. There is more water erosion because that part of was exposed to the the Ancient Egyptians ever existed, before Ancient Egypt, before but for hundreds of thousands of years. - The softer layers are more clay-like. And the are so soft, in fact, and this is true of the Sphinx itself before it was covered with restoration, they're so soft that you can literally just crumble the stone with your hands, because it's so clay-like. That's what's causing not rainwater washing over And the harder layers, and rounded-like, you have this flaking, flaking that's so severe the size of giant potato chips, sometimes almost a And it's the salt, probably, that are pushing these flakes off and crumbling as we speak. You don't need thousands to make this weathering pattern. It's happening right now - I can't argue scientifically about the weathering patterns or anything like that, but I can tell you that there was nothing that we know of, that a monument like that, that early on. It would simply be in a vacuum and that makes no sense. - [Narrator] The water erosion theory remains a controversial notion. The vast majority of experts believe there is little or no If the Sphinx did not emerge from the mist of prehistory, then who did carve it, and when? Recent excavations on the Giza Plateau have uncovered important new evidence about the people who (suspenseful music) A short distance to the Mark Lehner and Zahi Hawass that has helped solve - This is where we found And I believe there workmen who worked it in the construction of the lived actually above this area. They lived in the camp here. They eat their beer and bread, and they take their tools, and they go underneath to work from the sunrise to the sunset. - Our excavations that we're doing now, we're refining a vast production complex the size of several football fields for turning out bread and meat. We have scores of bakeries. We have collected more - And this area, we And this skull looks like because his forehead looks small. And the doctors who checked the skeleton said that most of them between 35 and 45 like this. - All the skeleton of men and women that we found in the lone cemetery, they have a stress on their back. They were involved in moving heavy stuff. The discovery of the tombs also tell us two important things. Number one, that the were Egyptians. And number two, that the and the Sphinx were not slaves. (mellow ethic music) - We have names, family relationships, there's a whole context to It is this very human context that I find missing in the new age literature. If it wasn't these people, who was it? Where is the evidence? Because you can't make human culture disappear without a trace, leaving only an enigmatic monument, standing like some kind of an iceberg, floating alone. (wind humming) - [Narrator] For nearly 5,000 years, the Sphinx has occupied a prime position on the Giza Plateau. Much has it seen, much has it endured, but nothing in its long, could have prepared the monument for what would be a remarkable rebirth. - It was at 1:30 in the A shank from the Sphinx's - And the whole country was in uproar. How could this happen to the Sphinx? - And I went to buy cucumbers from a man in the streets of Cairo. And the man recognized m, a poor man who doesn't And when he recognized my face, he said, &quot;Sir, how is the Sphinx?&quot; That is most embrasive and wonderful word or a sentence I ever heard in my life. - The media, the television shows, the talk shows, radio, everybody in Egypt was in an uproar, &quot;How could &quot;Let us fix it, let us have - And this why we decided to start a very important campaign to restore this statue And not only we have to decide the method of restoration, but we have to take the because the Sphinx do It belonged to everyone (clinking) - [Narrator] Beginning in 1990, the Sphinx underwent the most ambitious and comprehensive 3,000 days and 12,478 stones later, in January of 1998, the restored and preserved Sphinx was unveiled to the world. - When they took the scuffling and we began to make the celebration, I looked at the Sphinx. I saw the Sphinx was a smile. (thumping gongs music) It was maybe the best For the 5,000 years He saw Napoleon. He saw people come from everywhere. He saw new age people. He saw people talking about him. But he never had a good that everyone was looking at his face. - In modern-day Egypt, the Sphinx plays a very significant role. I don't really fully understand it but it's very significant role. - Definitely one of the to everyone, and it's the - For us, it represents the the things that the - So our very concern that because it's not only to the - The Egyptians of today on par with the pyramids, - And I would wonder if some of the people don't still, in some way, in a very benevolent way, (mellow piano music) - [Narrator] Will Egypt's ever give up all its secrets? - I don't expect that we're ever going to know everything. I think there's always mysteries, there are always theories that may replace other theories. - If we do know too much, we shall lose our interest. I think it's better not to know too much. We know enough. - I think, you know, like so many modern we have to be comfortable with the level of probability, rather than certitude, rather than certainty. As a matter of fact, I think we'd rebel against it (chuckles). - I like to say about the Sphinx that this is a monument with a very long and colorful history, most - I could say to people that He's a stone, but he's not a stone. He's a stone in the eyes of everyone, but I feel that inside the Sphinx, he's looking at us, keeping the secrets of our past. He's really telling us that we should learn from these secrets to understand our future. (mysterious music)