Everyone likes to joke about the Mmm. Still fresh. But the truth is, these guys aren't that special, because a lot of the products have similarly long shelf lives. And that's because science has developed some amazing food preservatives to keep Whether it's keeping your crisps crisp research has given us all kinds of tools to So let's talk about some of you might find in your groceries, how they work, and whether you need to keep an eye [ INTRO] Let's start with one of the bigger categories of food preservative that's all about texture. There's a group of substances called a fight against dry bread and And there are a bunch of them that all But for this video, we're The word humectant comes from the and like the name suggests, to help it keep its moisture. Oddly enough, they're mostly used cheese, candy, and cured meats like jerky. See, these foods are dry on the outside, but they do have some moisture on the inside. And if that water escapes, too much or become a bacterial breeding ground. Humectants bind to the moisture existing which keeps your favorite snack nice and chewy, or soft, or whatever texture you want it to be. Some of the humectants that are used that you have them in your pantry. The original humectants are plain old also more processed ones like high So the rules for safety with eating for stuff like sugar and salt, Enjoy your sweet or salty Moving on, let's talk about keeping You probably hear a lot of talk about but it turns out that they're Some of the more common synthetic butylated hydroxytoluene, also called BHT, and butylated hydroxyanisole, While they do help keep foods from going stale, they have a bigger purpose than Antioxidants... work against oxidants. A shocking revelation, I know. But a slightly better way to say that is they help prevent the chemical reaction called oxidation. Oxidation is just what happens and it happens to a lot of stuff. It's why iron gets rusty, and why the copper And yep, this can happen to our food as well. When the food touches air, the what are known as free radicals, that go around stealing This reaction degrades those And when we eat foods that have gone rancid, it's not just the flavor that gets messed up. Free radicals in rancid food can in certain tissues in our bodies when But thankfully, we have antioxidants to BHA and BHT catch free meaning they can no longer steal So antioxidants are our main line And not only are they totally safe to Antioxidants occur naturally For instance, tomatoes are chock full which also has some potent health benefits, like lowering the risk of certain cancers. But the antioxidants that we cook seem to be a little more controversial Several big organizations, including on Cancer and The European have listed these substances or at least as substances to watch. Mice and hamsters that were developed tumors in their that consumed BHA developed liver cancer. Which sounds scary at first! But those rodents were getting mega-doses of BHA. The maximum amount of BHA that manufacturers are allowed to add is 0.005% of the Meanwhile, the rodents were being fed as much as 1-2% every day, for up to two years. And the fish were getting It's also worth mentioning are neither a mangrove rivulus Unless you are, in which Just because BHA and BHT are toxic doesn't automatically mean they're toxic to you. Not a single study on these substances has found any direct link between BHA So not only do we not think these things you'd have to really work hard to ingest As long as you're not literally chugging While plenty of us like the occasional bleu cheese on our salads, there that are very bad for us to eat. Thankfully, we have these to stop the molds that we don't Some common ones you might find or benzoic acid, sorbate or sorbic acid, And these things are super from getting moldy is harder than it seems. Mold spreads to your piece of bread that could come from an already infected Once these food spores land on they produce long root threads then grow stalks with even more spores on them. Those stalks and spores are the fuzzy that have been in the back or that blue lump hiding in your These bad molds can give you allergies, which can make you super sick if you eat them. And those of you who just cut off the from the package, ya know, I see you. But unfortunately, although it might or cheese is perfectly fine, that fuzz means those little fungal roots have gotten all This is where antifungals come in. Some fungi like yeasts have a lot of trouble So when antifungals like benzoic or they lower the pH and slow the mold's growth, keeping your food mold-free for longer. And a lot of them like benzoic and except in the rare case Nitrates and nitrites are a bit more But there's no reason to fear these additives that keep the fun in your food, Unfortunately, mold isn't the only There's also bacteria, which we can help prevent using good old fashioned antibiotics. People first started using antibiotics as The ones they ended up focusing which are also used in medication. Tetracyclines kill bacteria by going They attach there and prevent the that it needs to function, so the bacteria dies. This prevents bacteria from and extends the shelf life of the food item. However, there's been a push to in packaged foods because of the The more often a bacteria the more likely it is that the bacteria Antibiotic-resistant bacteria are one of to global health, and were responsible So to try and avoid making more using substances called These bacteria-fighting molecules are Bacteria generally don't like to compete so they'll release bacteriocins And scientists can use these bacteriocins making sure you don't get sick. While we have good evidence that harm to our human cells, they on the little guys we have living in our guts. See, bacteriocins can't discriminate so bacteriocins, like antibiotics, have Still, researchers agree that having some in our food is kind of important, so the better ways to keep our food bacteria-free. But for now, bacteriocins are This last one isn't actually but rather keeps your food Some food producers will in order to give it a nice pink color. Now, to be clear, this isn't a way of It's more about making sure that your deli Without colorants, your pretty much immediately when they hit the air. If your lunch meat looks brown instead of pink, you might think it's bad and So colorants help stop the making your ham sandwich all the more appetizing. And this is where those nitrates because they're some of the oldest Like, we've been using them since 3000 BC. They react with myoglobin and metmyoglobin, in muscles, to maintain that pink color. And because they're also antioxidants, they really do keep your food Nitrates and nitrites are found and can even have some health like reducing blood pressure. However, there is evidence that Some of the nitrates and nitrites in nitrosamines, which have been linked To be at risk for that, though, you need The safe amount suggested by 3.7 milligrams of nitrate and between 0.06 and 0.07 milligrams For the average 60 kg adult, And there's plenty of evidence are eating way less than that. Like, I don't think I've ever eaten 24 hot dogs. Some studies also show that vitamin so a lot of cured meat producers So there's no need to worry about So whether they're stopping those hard-to-pronounce preservatives your food stays safe and As with just about everything at the grocery, you can have too much of a good thing. But these food preservation savor every snack for that much longer. So go ahead, enjoy the fruits of I know I will! [ OUTRO]