Integers are numbers that have no Look at that beauty. Oh but what about a Yikes! Problem here is we have a but don't worry! .8 may not be an integer but it is rational which means it can be expressed this case 0.8 is equal to 8 over 10. 8 integers which means that since point 8 It can be expressed as a ratio between numbers are beautiful. Ancient problem. There were some things we could think of that didn't appear to be either For instance think of a square with side length of 1. What is the length of this C. Well the Pythagorean theorem tells us the length of this side squared plus the 1 squared plus 1 squared is just 2 so C equals the square root of 2. Perfect alright so the length of this diagonal is square root of 2. What's the square root It could be rational. Well one thing you diagonal of a perfectly drawn square of and better so that you've got more and accumulate new digits for your answer to the way you could find a the problem will you ever be done? Will reached the last digit in the decimal you do then it's a rational number. The really big numbers but who cares at If it is how do you prove it? It is seems like calculating for some unknown possible completely infinitely precise But here's what is so fantastic about that the square root of 2 is not an we're gonna do just that but we need to proof is nice and complete. The first number. What is an even number? We all are very familiar with even numbers 2 4 6 8 negative 2 negative 4 negative 68 these in common? Well they are divisible by two. That is a definition of evenness which by the way means that 0 is even because there's no fractional piece left over so side are odd and that's how numbers go pattern. Let's look at this definition: an can be evenly divided by 2 whole number there's nothing left over is that eight is equal to some number in a nice generalized definition of an even expressed as two times some integer. I'll pattern of even odd even odd is what it being equal to two times any integer negative 12 can be expressed as two but negative 13 well negative 13 is odd negative seven plus one. These are odd. The next thing we need to do is show square it the result will also be even it the result will always be odd. Now number which as we know is expressed by it. Now 2C squared equals two times C itself. This is equal to four C squared. can pull a 2 out of there and wind up uh-oh look what we've got. This is 2 times an integer is even so this is an even. Now let's square an odd number. An times any integer you like plus one. Now if favorite thing, binomial multiplication. Let's take a look at this. We've got two C plus one and it's squared so we're c plus 1 times 2c plus 1. Let's use foil to we will find the product of the first squared we actually already knew that. product of the outer terms 2C times 1. product of the inner terms 1 times 2 C add the product of the last terms 1 4 C squared 2 C plus 2 C is just 4 C and Now how about this? Let's pull a 2 out of this thing 2 times 2 C squared + 2 C and we've got Yowza! Look at this result. We have this which is some integer and we're adding 1. This is the form of an odd squared is odd and even numbers squared talk about squaring rational numbers. Now before but I want to prove it. When we over B and we want to multiply it by B. This is pretty easy to do. You numerators, A squared, and divide them by squared. Boom. Pretty simple but how can we be sure that is true because after all fractions can be a little bit weird A over B I don't just add up the instead I add up the numerators, 2A, and same. This is very different than this. what's going on? How can we be sure that we're doing this fraction multiplication correctly? Well my favorite way to do idea that this is right unless our entire lives is to just take advantage division are inverse operations so let's over B and I will multiply it by another product going to look like? Well here is ahead and multiply their product by B multiplication and division are inverse I multiply by some number and then changed the thing I started with so all trying to study; the product of A over B associating and commuting all of these multiplication so I can take this B here product of AB times CD or I can take then bring in C over D. So let's do that multiply it by B and then I multiply C sure I don't forget that I'm also this. Multiplication and division are multiply by B that's the same as just Same over here. Dividing by D and we're left with is A times C divided by A over B times A over B equals the of the denominator. Wonderful we are now ready to really take a big bite out of rational numbers. reduced to lowest terms. In fact if you cannot be reduced to lowest terms then this all the time when we're working like 4/6. That's beautiful. That is a it's not in lowest terms because there By a factor I mean a number that evenly divided into 4? Well 1 2 and 4. What numbers evenly divide into 6? Well 1 does so does 2 so does 3 and so does 6. Yowzas. divide both of them by 2. Now dividing by this ratio won't change, it'll just be in divided by 2 is 3 and boom 2/3. This is a to 4/6 but the neat thing about it is it's a ratio between two integers that numbers do not share any factors except the factors of 3 are 1 and 3. They share co-prime. Every single ratio between two between co-prime integers. There's 14/15. This one doesn't feel as pretty factors of 14 are 1, 2, 7, and 14. The factors of 15 are 1, 3, 5, and 15. The only factor they share in common is once they are co-prime. 14/15 is in love it. The key here is that every single ratio of integers can be reduced to a ratio root of 2 is indeed rational it should square root of 2 is in fact irrational. start off by assuming that the square really does equal the ratio between two don't know what they are but we're just A over B squared should equal 2. That's also shown that a fraction squared means when you multiply fractions you numerators, A times A is A squared and B is B squared so A squared over B root of 2 is rational. Now we can by B squared. This gives us A squared gracious. Look at that. Look at that. Now B squared is some integer we don't know what it is but it's being multiplied by It's divisible by 2. This is the even page look an even number as we said some integer so 2 B squared is clearly to A squared then A squared must also be number squared is even so if A squared that's pretty interesting. It means that integer. Let's call it...let's call it C. I let's take this representation of A and if A is 2 C then we have A squared so squared. Now this 2 C squared is just 2 equals 2 B squared. Good. Oh we can divide both sides by 2 so that 2 goes away and this 4 becomes a 2. have. Now we have 2 times C squared which is some integer well this is divisible by 2 so this is to B squared then B squared must also be creates an even number B must be even even and B must be even but if both of because they both share 2 as a common every ratio of integers must be co-prime integers and this one can't. The This result is beautiful because what discover something about our universe our own minds without looking at the always thanks for watching