Hey there guys, Paul here from theengineeringmindset.com. In this video we are going to work in HVAC systems. Now to become an HVAC engineer you understand how the refrigerant works, how it changes phases and how around the system. Guys, I'd just like to take our sponsor for today's episode. Danfoss is your go to source that can help you through the to natural and climate They have a deep understanding and their effects, and they're ready to share their knowledge and solutions with you. They've also made helpful tools like their refrigerant retro-fit and also the Coolselector(r)2 app which is available for You can visit them now by All right, so jumping into the video, now it doesn't matter what type of system you look at all the way from the refrigerator in your home, to simple split units and even essentially they all work the same. And that's because they the main components of the the condenser and the expansion device. When we say refrigerant what easily boiled from a liquid into a vapor, and also be condensed from And this needs to be able to without failure. So, what is used as a refrigerant? Well, we could use water that will work and it is used in absorption chillers. Now if you haven't watched our I highly recommend you do so. We've also got a lot of other air cooled chillers and just general HVAC building services videos. So do check these out But the reason we don't refrigeration units is because refrigerants designed and so they are able On the screen you'll see refrigerants that are used currently and that is R22, R134A and R410A. If you don't know what then don't worry, we are different types of along with the pros and cons of them, especially their potential As you can see on the screen, extremely low boiling So they need very little and evaporate into a can extract heat more rapidly. You can see that at atmospheric point of water is 100degC or 212degF, but R134A has a boiling point of just - 26.3degC or -15.34degF. So we can use room and take the heat away from the room and disburse that out to the atmosphere. But for now lets see how the refrigerants actually move around the system. So we'll start with the the driving force of the refrigerant, pushing it around the system. And there's a lot of but in this video we're piston type, just make it very clear and easy to understand how it works. So the refrigerant is as a saturated vapor, and it's at a low The compressor pulls the refrigerant in and rapidly compresses it. This forces the molecules together so the same amount of molecules This increases the collision because they are all As they collide they convert their kinetic energy into heat. At the same time all the the compressor is converted within the refrigerant, this increasing in internal energy, enthalpy, temperature and pressure. And you'll know this if the pump gets very hot as The refrigerant now around into the condenser. The condenser is where all out into the atmosphere. This will include all of as well as the heat from the compressor. When the refrigerant enters the condenser it needs to be at a higher temperature than the air around it in The greater the temperature difference, the easier the heat transfer will be. The refrigerant enters at high pressure and high temperature. And it passes along the Fans will blow air across the just like you might blow to cool it down. As the air blows across thermal energy from the refrigerant. As the refrigerant gives up this heat, it will condense into a liquid. So by the time the refrigerant it will be a completely saturated liquid, still at the higher pressure although it's enthalpy and Now you'll see this if you pour you'll see all the steam and also the steam as it comes which is at a cooler temperature, it will condense and that And that will then, as it and make it's way into the back into a liquid. Next the refrigerant makes around and into the expansion devise. In this case we've got a The expansion valve meters the flow of refrigerant into the evaporator, and in this example we're which uses a capillary through the valve, depending on the temperature at the The valve is a bit like a spray nozzle. It has a high pressure on and there's a low pressure When the trigger is squeezed and this will be a mixture So as the refrigerant passes it will do just this and it will expand because the pipework after is at a lower pressure so the refrigerant will be able to expand to fill this. As it expands it reduces in just like if you hold a deodorant can or a spray paint can you'll feel it get colder and will become less pressurized as you do so. So the refrigerant will at a low pressure and temperature and it'll head straight The evaporator receives the refrigerant and the fan blows the The temperature of the air must be higher than the temperature and this allows it to absorb more energy and to boil the refrigerant Much like heating a pan of water. The heat will cause the water and the vapor will carry away the heat. If you place your hand then you will find it is really hot. So, please don't do that at home. Remember the refrigerants so the room temperature air is enough to boil it into a vapor. The refrigerant leaves at a low pressure and temperature. The temperature only changes slightly, which confuses many people, but the reason it does not increase is because it's undergoing a phase change from a liquid to a vapor. So the thermal energy is being used to break the bonds between the molecules, but their enthalpy and and this is where the energy is going. The temperature will only is no longer undergoing a phase change. All right, guys, that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you enjoyed that and it helped you. Just before we go, I'd like to Danfoss for sponsoring this episode. And remind you to check out their free refrigerant resources available at refrigerants.danfoss.com