Here's a question we've been How did Harvard University get so rich? Take a look at these two data points. In 1978, Harvard University had a $1.4 billion pool of money. They admitted 2200 students This year, they have $50.7 billion and they only admitted 1,942 students. That's a 3500% and a 12% decrease The same is true of the rest of the Ivy But it's not true for public universities, funding over the same time period Public universities The University of California, Berkeley, enrolls more low income students In the wake of affirmative action two tracks of organizing for equity One is making admissions by removing legacy admissions, something that Biden's Department But it's not enough to just end that only benefit We need to structurally reform We're supposed to be We ignore what these schools Schools like Harvard, They should be building If we taxed the top we could get a trillion dollars It's not impossible. We'll show you by the end of this video we can actually do all of these things And as a bonus, if you watch till the end, one thing that Donald Trump did that you watching And it has to do with Harvard. So let's get into it. This is The Class Room, And today we're talking about how Harvard A financial portfolio designed to grow a pool of money The Bill and Melinda Gates endowment in America at $67 billion. Endowments for universities date Money and education Harvard isn't just the oldest institute of higher learning in America. It's also the oldest corporation Harvard defines its endowment donated since Harvard's early history, to support specific aspects of Harvard's Legal scholar Henry Hansmann writes came in the 1700s as a way to free Harvard that came with state Endowments, quote, served to protect these institutions from the vicissitudes It did not, however, but rather served to shift But it was only recently If you go back to the '60s they were mainly managed Charlie Eaton is the author of Bankers In the book, you have a very important there's this report that the Ford Foundation Yeah, in that they say, should be invested And that lays the groundwork in endowment management The 1980s. The decade that transforms One thing that astonishes me when American intellectual society transformative new technologies and instead starts Two of these schemes are hedge They're both just very high methods that appeal to very wealthy Yale University's endowment manager saw an opportunity in these new investment David Swensen develops this Yale putting large shares of the endowment fund investments that could yield higher The catch was They often also are What are you looking at? You're laborers, you're supposed to be laboring. That's what you get By 2019, consisted of investments in hedge funds, Hedge fund billionaire and 2020 Steyer was a huge fan of Swensen, saying, he pioneered new ways He did it with absolute And he did it for a bigger It just so happens that Swenson's pioneering ways Both Tom Steyer and David Swensen were alumni of Yale University. And at a Yale Tom Steyer says he heard that David the Yale Endowment, meeting with David Swensen to say, I think I can earn really big returns David Swensen said, Well, you know, How do we know if your hedge fund doesn't And Steyer said, No, you can trust me. I won't shut down. And basically as former Yalies And as a result, David Swensen, on that in investment, which was about a third And that was a secret to Swensen's Embracing people like Steyer, he would when he took over in 1985 to $31 billion The same sort of transaction was happening at Harvard. Another of the first major hedge funds is the Baupost Group founded by Seth who are hanging around the Harvard They developed their own hedge fund model that has since earned And oddly enough, folks to sit on the Harvard Board of Managers Okay. This is a really important point Seth Klarman went to Harvard then he graduated and other folks from his hedge fund at Harvard, and their endowment Fun fact, He was a Yale graduate who went to work on Wall Street then went back to Yale This country club-like revolving door was mutually beneficial. It helped secure with massive early capital And it also led to an endowment boom. Those schools that have added the most private equity they tend to have higher rates So let's just recap. At one point, just to maintain their size, Then David Swensen and the Yale investing in riskier assets At the same time, people like Seth Klarman work on Wall Street, and start populating They apply the lessons they learned on Wall Street That's how Harvard and Yale universities got rich. But what's so bad about colleges Isn't that good for the students Well, for one thing, recent studies have shown that class mobility for their graduates In fact, which have far less resources. The Ivy League was founded by the rich and is operated This is Jane Chung, a Harvard alumni it's like coming from a working class and getting admitted I found myself in a place where I was encountering I did not know how to navigate a system Universities like Harvard, have massive amounts of wealth, and yet students coming out of school are mired in hundreds So where's the disconnect here? The story of public colleges If you take an example like UC Berkeley, they have 45,000 students They only have $3 billion to operate. The elite private universities very, very small to remain elite. By definition, an elite If you admit too many students, because you're not being as exclusive. That pursuit of elite status was exacerbated by another innovation News and World Reports Authors Sahaj Sharda writes about how the magazine got so powerful and influential, U.S. News and World It is seen as the de majority of high school students. Okay. So I just want to understand this U.S. How does it actually work? There was this clear idea the schools everyone intuitively thought or else your ranking wouldn't The aspect of this, well enough, is Zuckerman made with the colleges we're the most credible And in exchange, we're going to continue and we're going to develop our methodology And so the essential logic of the U.S. News and World Report college rankings is spend as much money The natural logic of this system rejecting more and more students You end up with this massive scarcity That scarcity of seats another way that the Ivy League The billionaire who owns the magazine universities and sits These close ties between U.S. News and the elite college when there was a possibility News rankings model. You know, in the Obama administration, there was an effort to try and do this, in the rankings market and to tie it to government to make it a real player. But the elite college presidents were able to not make the College Scorecard but instead just sort of an aggregation Part of the reason it's is that despite the fact like a hedge fund and boast about being the oldest corporation they're actually legally considered Basically what this means is and I raise $100 in a year, And tax exemption isn't the only benefit They also get access to compound their wealth. Here's one example You've probably heard news alumni that is meant for a building Well, the colleges don't They take it and they put it into the endowment fund And then they borrow the money through markets The reason they enjoy 501 (c)(3) status operating for educational benefit Are they doing that? That's arguable. With legacy admissions ties with investors, really is gated communities And that's not a public good. Remember how I said I'd show you something Well, here it is. In 2017, Trump signed into law a 1.4% tax on net investment Yes, Donald Trump has set the blueprint for how progressives And it's not just Trump. So AOC talks about taxing the wealthy. But the Harvard University endowment pays Harvard has 40 plus billion dollars - billion - in their endowment. Excessively large private university Senator Tom Cotton posting a 6% top ten universities Why are we subsidizing this insanity? These are the richest institutions They don't pay any taxes. The right wing has co-opted, it is, ideas about making public education And that's a real problem. Because the one thing have as a common experience is education. And as Democrats, how to make education more affordable, I talked to two Massachusetts Democrats Representative Peter Cataldo and Senator legislators who introduced a bill The bill addresses policies that we found to be pernicious. Those are early binding decision, legacy Rather than banning these practices, if an elite school that's highly selective to use them, then we are going to place that's equivalent to a very, In most cases, it would probably be less that are earned on the endowment itself. And so the school can make a choice Either they stop using practices or they pay a public service fee that goes into a trust fund for community I live in Lawrence, which is one of where attainment of a four year degree And one of the biggest obstacle When we talk about making community in the Commonwealth, That's less than 1% of Harvard's Now imagine what we could do if we taxed States across the country have proposed The total sum of the Ivy League's the cost of making community college free We started off this video but the real mystery left to me is why have been cut out of the benefits Harvard and other Ivies could be building They could quadruple their enrollment But they won't because their prestige millions of working class Americans That won't change unless we get serious