Diversity, Equity and you've probably heard quite a DEI. DEI. DEI. DEI. DEI. DEI is representation. It's the number of people organization that mirror the Change this system. The police killing of George protests, became a tipping America. Fortune 1000 acknowledged the importance $340 billion to promote But that is starting to The commitment to DEI appears Deere is pulling back from DEI Technology companies made big Lowe's is the latest company Major players have pulled back conservative pressures, and a politicization of the Harley joins Tractor Supply back or changing DEI by activist Robby Starbuck. Well, there's a new player in the conservative consumer who many companies have divorced are king. But DEI advocates argue that overstated. Is it the normal initiatives, or is there a DEI is diversity is It's the number of people organization that mirror the When we're challenged with often told to think bigger. You've got to think bigger. and your existing team, and think bigger without new leading bigger is, is including others. Despite challenges, a 2024 study found 75% of U.S. executives highly prioritize being more vocal about their In a letter to shareholders, said that the initiatives are innovation and stronger Mastercard's chief acknowledged the company's equality and fairness. Diversity among CEOs is also black, Asian and Latino since 2019. Over 70% of leaders, choose race and gender. We like comfortable. But what we have and tomorrow's future, It means a lack of change, a So if you look around the room and is a white male, and you're multiracial world have anybody who represents probably not going to do very DEI advocates point to several innovation, recruitment and We say we don't want to have in. We want to help people In 2023, more than 75% of DEI metrics in the pay of executives. Still, less than corporate employees say their diversity of their employees One of the problems with getting shareholders on hard to translate to dollars. Everything doesn't have to be So we live in a society where can't quantify it, then it And these are some of the power of inclusion and You've got over 70% more from innovation revenue, services revenue. You have new markets. You have a performance, you have a And importantly, given how have a much lower risk of In recent years, DEI efforts pushback, and more than 100 30 states aimed at And some executives are public stances on social risk to businesses. 9 in 10 executives believe social issue is riskier than one study. It's a broader swath of all the divisive, woke stuff. They just want to be able to Recently, several major household names, including Harley-Davidson, Ford and policies. As we look down that list of conservatives in America, we policies, and they were all values, and tenets, and consumers. Robby Starbuck has over a social media platforms and conservative consumers. So there's a real financial look and take very seriously back where it's appropriate More people now have anti-DEI. And I think that probably were already only was the socially acceptable So they really weren't doing critical aspect of their U.S. companies spend an on DEI. Training can be of thousand dollars, to well company size. The DEI departments at large and have borne very little The budgets are definitely We do find that in this era backlash, we do find that know, have been cut. Although, business leaders are shareholders and board prioritize it. The board has a fiduciary shareholders. These boards reach out to their company, the marketplace that we move And I don't want to destroy I want to help restore these America, which is the idea One study found that while companies plan to cut or 2024, the landscape is Many organizations continue business success. There are many, many doing Diversity, Equity, out and said this is not know that it is a business This work goes in waves, And so there's a time when you can just work the system Nobody's really talking about now. DEI pullback is a bit are largely doubling down on apparent, particularly to stances on social issues. I think there's no question won by companies that choose political and social issues. There's no reason that we position of a diaper company. Our values of liberty and equality. You know, should to create a world that works The better off I am, the