While the French and German armies are locked army is on the march in the East to help its General Alexei Brusilov's new tactics and are ready to strike the unsuspecting Austro-Hungarians. In just a few weeks, thousands of square km thousands of men will be killed or wounded, to its core. It's the Brusilov Offensive. By 1916, the Eastern Front was facing a stalemate The deadlock was not as rigid and the east developed into the familiar combination of and strategic impasse. But that had not been the case in the first The front line had dramatically swung back the Austro-Hungarians in Galicia, but the Prussia. In 1915, the combined armies of the Central became known as The Great Retreat. Both sides then consolidated their gains and In March 1916, the Russians launched an offensive request to relieve pressure in the west. Although the Russians far outnumbered the 78,000 Russians were killed or wounded in hit. The Central Powers' confidence in the East, Some German and Austrian commanders believed But Chief of the German General Staff Erich Russia in 1916 was impossible. The Central Powers were still outnumbered goal in range that would guarantee Russian So the Russians started 1916 with a defeat began to fall out amongst themselves. Austria-Hungary and Germany were allies, but Both sides understood that without German earlier in the war - but that didn't mean Success in the east and on the Italian Front debates raged about where they should focus Falkenhayn wanted to push more resources against decisive battle was only possible in the West. This meant the Germans would have to move Austro-Hungarians would have to pick up the Austrian Chief of Staff Franz Conrad von Hotzendorf, Conrad wanted to use Austro-Hungarian troops troops to shoulder the burden in the east. Both the Central Powers flatly refused to efforts. One bright spot was the addition of the Ottoman the Central Powers' defences. The growing animosity between Germany and the east as well. German staff officers like General Linsingen colleagues appointed through their dynastic Archduke Joseph Ferdinand. Meanwhile, German General Hans von Seeckt - or sloppiness. Despite German criticism, by 1916 the Austro-Hungarians' The incredible ease in which the Russians had fought the Germans, not the Austro-Hungarians Colonel Rudolf Kundmann of their superiority: "They attack stupidly, in thick masses. They can do no more because they have no training." (Dowling 48) The Austrian 2nd Army diarist shared this "[The Russian reserves] are weak momma's sharply." (Dowling 51) Austro-Hungarian morale had improved, but The Lake Naroch debacle had also convinced enemies were superior - but the country In December 1915, Britain, France, Italy, a new formal policy of cooperation for 1916. The Allies all agreed that if one of them offensives to distract and drain the resources Generals like Russian Western Front commander Aleksei Kuropatkin were uneasy with the arrangements. Their Lake Naroch failure had been the result were equally pessimistic about future offensives. Instead, they advocated going on the defensive Some historians have suggested they often to avoid attacking and potentially damaging However, Chief of Staff Mikhail Alekseyev Chantilly accords. That's when Southwestern Front commander Unlike his colleagues, Brusilov was confident were properly led, prepared, and trained. The intellectually-inclined Brusilov also regardless of social standing. Although Brusilov accepted that Russia still commanders into agreeing to an offensive. So he and Alekseyev created a new plan for Evert would attack the Germans opposite his advantage over the defenders. The primary Russian objective was German-occupied Brusilov's Southwestern Front would strike Although the Russians only outnumbered the hoped to draw German reinforcements away from Brusilov's main effort would be made by would be along a 450-kilometre front to mask for additional breakthroughs. Furthermore, if his Ninth Army could make Romanians enough confidence to enter the war Alekseyev approved the plan but made it clear troops or resources. According to Brusilov's memoirs another him after the meeting with some advice: "I was approached by one of the senior generals that I sought permission to attack, and [...] said: and though you would be unhappy not to attack, very high. Are you courting disaster, seeking dismissal you have earned to date? In your place, I would be distancing myself current state of affairs you will just do (Buttar 125) Brusilov had volunteered for an offensive, way as his less optimistic colleagues. He felt he had learned valuable lessons from of the Entente and the enemy. Traditionally, Russian commanders tried to possible. A lack of training among the infantry meant would advance on narrow fronts. Russian artillery use was sometimes unsystematic. This meant the defenders could concentrate created in their wire, resulting in massive Brusilov, however, reformed these assault an attacking front. Instead of concentrating on a single narrow identify sectors up to 25 kilometres wide By attacking numerous locations, the enemy or recognize the true objective of the attack. When Russian troops achieved local breakthroughs, the breach and roll it up the flanks. Brusilov understood that his approach carried "This means of action had, obviously, its at the main point of attack the men and artillery one strike force." (Dowling 239) Since Brusilov himself wouldn't know in a larger strategic goal was tougher to develop of the enemy forces as possible. To achieve this, Russian troops would use The first, armed with hand grenades, would The second similarly armed wave would follow enemy line. Once the second line was breached, troops machine guns up to prepare the area for a Artillery would also play a greater role in Applying tactics he observed from the French, fire missions backed up by aerial reconnaissance. Once the guns had blasted holes in the Austrian trenches to cut off the frontline. After each fire mission, observers would conduct Russian guns would no longer direct unaimed Brusilov also noted the Russian infantry started up to two kilometres from the enemy's first Instead, the infantry would now dig hidden 60 metres of Austro-Hungarian positions. To keep these measures secret, the Russians deception, including fake radio messages. Assault troops close to the front would wait going over the top. The Russians even used the spoil produced and supplies. The new approach required rigorous training Staff officers created replicas of Austro-Hungarian by both infantry and artillery working together. For artillery officer Alexander Winogradsky, "The infantry practised and adapted methods prepared for this purpose. We too had the opportunity to study the most realities of time and terrain, instead of This mode of work, where nothing was left new for us." (Buttar 131) Not all Russian commanders believed in the Alexei KaledIn, but by and large Russian morale So, by summer 1916, Brusilov's Southwestern Meanwhile, it remained business as usual in The experience of 1915 had convinced Conrad could beat off any Russian attack. In May 1916, he wrote a report in which he frontline defences, machine guns and artillery In particular, he emphasized that the first . Generally, the Austro-Hungarian frontline of deep trenches featuring overhead cover, nearby shelters. Lines were spaced out about 50 to 100 metres heavily reinforced, those further back were In some places, Austro-Hungarian rear lines comfort trumped defensibility: "Many [shelters] had been designed for comfort: or planks [...] and where possible, glazed Some had portable iron stoves and there were Officers had 'suites' of three for four walls." (Buttar pp, 129/130) The Austro-Hungarians also prioritised firepower The infantry now had more firepower, with as well as 90mm light mortars. The Austrians positioned their artillery just range. Despite their strong positions, the passivity Hardly any thought was given to active defences, had been replaced with digging and snow clearing. The frontlines also became crowded. With two-thirds of their strength in the first to prevent a breakthrough if the line was The Austro-Hungarian General Staff failed concerning Russian troop build-ups, sapping Conrad remained convinced Russia lacked the Vienna even transferred four veteran divisions Italian front, where they began an offensive So the Austrians were vulnerable in the East requested assistance from their Allies. Among the Russian General Staff, only Brusilov At the dawn of the offensive, Brusilov sent "It is time to drive out the dishonorable All armies on our front are attacking at the I am convinced that our iron armies will win (Dowling 62) The Russian summer offensive of 1916 began followed by Evert's Front on June 14. The first Russian artillery barrages hit the Their impact appeared minimal, and soon after steps to receive the expected Russian attack. But no mass attack came. Instead, smaller Russian groups moved forward Among them were Russian artillery observers with more accuracy. Once again, the Austro-Hungarians ran for to fend off an attack which didn't come. This cycle repeated several times on the first Soon fewer and fewer Austro-Hungarian troops Only in the evening did the main Russian assault Russian troops emerged from their sap trenches line, often entering before the defenders The attackers captured huge numbers of Austro-Hungarians, "...it was already five seconds after [the trench. In the sixth second perhaps a spirited defender In the seventh second he ran into someone balcony that was splintered and torn to pieces And in the eighth second a voice from above they should give themselves up. All resistance was useless. Machineguns already stood in front of every The trenches had been taken." (Dowling 79) By the end of June 6th, the Russians had taken Austro-Hungarian units did hold off the Russians Army broke through towards Lutsk, while the The Austro-Hungarians withdrew to poorly prepared out by the Russians. With much of the Austrian artillery ammunition support was sporadic and uncoordinated. Austrian requests to withdraw flooded into Joseph Ferdinand. By the time he responded, units had already Neighbouring units who had not even been attacked Ferdinand's Fourth Army fell back to the position. But it was now in a state of disrepair and The Russians destroyed the position, sending Austro-Hungarian command blew the bridges cross, and 59,000 out of 61,000 were trapped On June 7th, the Russians took Lutsk and by salient into the Austro-Hungarian line. In the south, Czernovitz fell on the 18th, into Hungary. The offensive appeared to be an unprecedented The Austro-Hungarian Army lost 54 percent Ferdinand's Fourth Army was reduced from Russian casualties were high, but acceptable Kaledin's Eighth Army lost 32,000 in the Conrad desperately called on the Germans assistance, Brusilov's armies were on the march with the scene was now set for Evert to strike As June 14th approached, Evert complained weather and a lack of artillery. He requested a delay until June 18th, and Rumours began to swirl that Evert was afraid of Brusilov, which would make Evert look bad. With Evert delaying, the Tsar shifted priority What started as a diversionary attack would Brusilov was outraged, and later blamed Evert, "I was well aware that the Tsar himself in military affairs. Alekseev grasped very well though, how the Evert and Kuropatkin conducted themselves. [. . .] Had another military man stood at Evert would have been dismissed without delay never would have found a place in the active (Dowling 91/92) Brusilov now hastily added a strategic dimension Russian forces would attempt to exploit the junction at Kovel and push north to Baranowicze. However, when they renewed their attack in more organised, and German troops were arriving Although Russian units continued to advance and German counterattacks stunted their assaults. Still, the Germans were surprised at the tenacity Historian Rudolf Jerabek wrote. "Just to show the Pickelhaube over the top fear and horror into the Russians." (Dowling 95) German commanders now gained increased control Archduke Joseph Ferdinand was relieved of von Seeckt took over the Austrian Seventh The fighting went back and forth, as reserves When Evert's attack finally went ahead on Attacking using the old Russian tactics, he all of which the Central Powers recaptured. And Brusilov's commanders were abandoning The new tactics required lengthy preparation In the push against Kovel they ordered mass lower morale. By late July, the battle entered a desperate troops smashed against the Stochod line near Although they did advance, there was no breakthrough. The Germans took advantage of Russian caution, With the men exhausted and far from their consolidate their gains. In the south, progress was better, but there would benefit the whole front. When Romania finally entered the war on August requiring him to divert troops away from his Fighting continued until October, but it was passages to Hungary were out of Russian reach. BLOCK 8: OUTCOME/ANALYSIS the most successful Russian offensive of the of any belligerent. 400,000 Austro-Hungarian troops were taken threatened. But did the offensive actually have a significant The Brusilov offensive did have some tangible The attack succeeded in terms of its stated Italian fronts. The Russian attack forced the Central Powers This likely contributed to the French victory Conrad's offensive by the time Brusilov Some historians have suggested Brusilov was strategist. His offensive lacked an overall strategic Historian David Stone suggests Brusilov's to breakthrough in the least strategically "[Brusilov] had prepared the rupture of easily effected, [but this was the result points selected, and for this reason they prepared for defense." (Stone 257) In any case, the centre of gravity on the army. Brusilov's offensive did little to change in the critical north. In fact, by bringing the Austro-Hungarian offensive arguably made the Central Powers unity and competence of command. Russian General Mikhail Belyaev appeared to "The Emperor is as firm as ever in his determination Germany is compelled to accept our terms - all But if our military position has greatly improved to attack the German forces. Putting things in their best light, we must (Buttar 169) But of course, it should also be stated Brusilov be strategically decisive - that was supposed Even so, killing and capturing large numbers impact. Morale certainly plummeted among the Austro-Hungarian "All [Austrian] officers without exception own defeat and confirm complete confusion They also do not believe in the success of Allies are however slowly, but methodically (Stone 249) However, this came at a huge price. Estimates greatly vary, but to inflict 850,000 may have lost around 1.5 million killed, wounded The Brusilov Offensive was one of the most in fall 1916, the First World War was far against the Tsar and his generals. SPONSORSHIP military history documentaries such as this Did you know we also produced the most detailed 1945? 16 Days in Berlin is a 4,5 hour 18-part series It features original film footage from Soviet battle, detailed maps and animations and expert Museum, Ian from Forgotten Weapons and more. Unfortunately, we can't upload this series of the 2nd World War - and that would get So resolution? On Nebula, a streaming service we built together As usual, you can find all our sources for I'm Jesse Alexander and this is The Great the only Youtube history channel that still