We reflect what's going on in the country. Right? That's the nature of this. And I think we're seeing communities, within our states. There's some interesting moving to areas because they feel there's political home there. So they're leaving places, you know, they may be a fourth Right. because you don't feel welcome in your own community anymore. So you leave to Idaho, or wherever. And then what you have is areas that are just more Right. that reflected here. I gotta go in and do It's 1:20 p.m. Okay. Good luck. Alright. Senator Lisa Murkowski showed up to her office today wearing running shoes. It felt appropriate because for more than a decade she has been trying to stay one step ahead of an increasingly right wing devouring everything to its left. In 2010, after losing her primary to a Tea Party candidate, to running as a write-in. We made history. Alaska's made history. She was successful and returned for her second term in Washington solo. Her relationship to the let's just say it got complicated, and though she continues to her refusal to fall in line with the party's far right identity ever since. So I went to Washington to meet by a central question - how does it feel to operate in a political of compromise has become I am a little bit of a pack rat, but I work at this desk. I don't have a sit down desk. As you see, I don't You don't seem to like to sit at all. No, I'm not. I'm not a very good sitter. I can't, I swear I cannot talk on a telephone if I'm sitting down. Yeah, people talk about of this dying breed of people idiosyncratic views that do not tow whatever of a party line is, or not follow a cult of personality and have that dictate their votes, do you feel like you're Oh, you know, sometimes I feel a bit like a In 2010 when I lost a primary, I think most people thought And Alaskans thought differently. We ran a write-in campaign and I was returned to the Senate, but I was not returned by my party. I was not my party's nominee. And so I came back with a level of support that was so and so unique that it put me in a place where I felt freed up to just put party politics aside. Doesn't make any difference who you have lunch with on Tuesday. And I think maybe because I did have that near I know the worst thing is I can lose an election and be sent back home where I am absolutely What I would like is who are really open, truly and honestly open to understanding so that we might be able I am not afraid of compromise. It seems like the polarization to think that representing of their side is good politics. And it's often not the case. Not the case. Yeah. And so I'm curious with or with abortion, how do you feel those issues I feel that my position with the vast majority of Americans, and certainly the vast majority that a woman should have the right to control her own healthcare decisions. Abortion is not anything would want to have to go through. I believe that there for a woman to receive an abortion, but I am not afraid to say that there should be limitations to that. I do not think that you should and then say, &quot;I've changed my mind.&quot; That basically doesn't Right, I mean, in cases where it's typically when the life or the life of the child's at stake. Correct, and I think this that are cranking down so much and saying that six weeks. Six weeks, well, six weeks, most women don't even know You have not given them that opportunity to again, control their And so how we ensure that a woman has those rights, how we ensure that our policies are fair and humane, this is what But instead, I think you have those that are on to of both sides. So you have some on the &quot;No, never at all, under any circumstance, not rape, not incest, not life And those on the other extreme she should be able to make Absolutely. Positively without question.&quot; And I don't think most are in this bucket and this bucket. They're in this swath in the middle, and yet we can't have conversations because we get so emotionally caught up in what is being directed by both extremes. In 2010, when you lost that primary and you won as a write-in, of the Tea Party, that was an of the right becoming even more extreme. In 2015, we had the rise of Trump, something pretty similar of the politics of the Tea Party. Did you feel like you had and that you knew how to deal with it? Or, did it feel like I think it felt like it My race in Alaska was one of the early indicators, I think, of how impactful the Tea Party could be in terms of elections. Murkowski wasn't the only politician threatened by the rise of the Tea Party in 2010. As establishment Republican Colorado, Nevada, and Utah were swept away by A shift that was triggered in large part by the election of America's first Black president, Barack Obama. The influence of the Tea Party politics waned for a little while, but elements of the movement survived, evolved and eventually dovetailed with the anti-establishment sentiments that supported the rise of Donald Trump. Politicians are all talk, no action, nothing's gonna get done. They will not bring us, believe I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I tell you that. Did you feel like you understood how to handle the Trump Or was that something that took a while? No, no, I don't feel like I fully understood it. I'll tell you, I was one of the ones who saw the replay when Trump made that It's the audio recording sending shock waves across Wait wait. I'm automatically attracted to beautiful- I just start kissing I just kiss. I don't even, and when you're You can do anything, you can do anything. And I was just so struck by just what I considered to be as open vulgarity, and it was like, well, this guy's not gonna become president. That was pretty late in that election process. We had been through a lot of vulgarity by the time we got to October. And so maybe, maybe, maybe But I really thought, I honestly thought that people would not accept that. They accepted it and he became president. I now look at where we are today. And I see that the public is again, open to accepting so inherently flawed am I not tapping into what it is that they are identifying Is this what the American Is somebody who is very and one who in my view That's not something that I, as an individual can accept. Walk with me and I just wanna show you because this is, this is important to see. So this is our capital. None of this area here, none Wow. about our marine highway system, it connects all of these communities. I like this. I could be a weather person. Into Seward, out to Kodiak, I was up outside of Nome and Golovin. $99 for a case of a 24 pack of water that you would get at Costco. Wow. excited about the map because it demonstrates the challenge that we have with infrastructure. It's what makes my job what I think is the most because it is so hard. It's so hard. I have I was the PTA president that had 56 different It's just this mixing bowl of extraordinary individuals. What's the story with this guy? Walter is a magnificent king salmon from the Kenai River. I brought him out of the river in 2006. He weighs 63 pounds. Unfortunately, beautiful fish like Walter, are not seen in the Kenai very much. We're seeing with warming temperatures, with challenges to habitat. It's been harder for great Do you think they're going extinct because people are mounting I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. Right now, over 90% of our food comes up by barge, by ship, from the Seattle area. That's not sustainable. And the prices are crazy. Right? If you have no roads, how How do you get your fuel there? How do you get your refrigerator there, You fly it. Very stupid question, but how is there no regulations about inflation on necessary goods like that? I wish, I wish that we can control the What we do do is we try to of energy in rural areas by what we call power cost equalization. It's an effectively a state subsidy to help offset the cost. You have some communities where you will be paying over Wow. the average is 8 cents. How can you afford to turn your lights on? How can you afford to stay warm? So these are some real world issues. Yeah. just have to deal with I'm gonna go in and talk nuclear. Thank you. Good luck in there. It's probably not surprising that a lot of an Alaskan senator's time roads, airplanes, and energy. If there are two things that of the state, it's getting around and keeping the heat on. That made the $1.2 trillion especially significant to Murkowski, not only in its substance, but in its process, which of old school bipartisan I worked really hard on and I'm very proud of There was a lot of give and take, and I'll give it a specific example. I was making the case for funding for what I was calling essential ferry service and Mark Warner, finally, you're pressing so hard for ferry money. I mean, that's ridiculous.&quot; In his head, ferries are like those nice you know, to some cute I'm like, no, this is medical. This is your basketball team. This is going to the to get your groceries. And he says, &quot;I don't get it.&quot; And I said, &quot;So you don't but I know you know your and I'm gonna ask you to trust me knowing my And so we built an infrastructure bill that really helped America, and particularly rural America, which was so deficient in infrastructure. There's still about three of Alaska that have no running They operate on what is And basically it's a five gallon bucket. It sits in the corner, if it's fancy, they've bought a toilet seat And when the bucket it's usually the pre-teen of hauling the bucket of to the sewage lagoon and And we wonder why we have the and conditions related It strikes me, this is but like the work of legislating and governing seems still and running for office. Yes. those two different modes that you have to be in? The politicking side of things? My view is the worst part of the job. Yeah. it's what you have to do in order to be allowed a seat at the and then implement policy. And the practice of Yeah. to hear you talk for a half an hour about the benefits of advanced nuclear. They just wanna know whether They don't wanna know the details. I wanna talk to you about the details. This is why people should run for office because you want to help create good policies that are gonna benefit our entire country. And it shouldn't be I have some colleagues that and they're less enthusiastic about the policy making. I'm exactly the opposite. I, put me in the policy let's make it happen. And more and more I'm seeing with every new Congress, it seems that we, people are coming into Congress with a focus on which what problems are we gonna solve today? Why do you think that is? It's changed in the 20 it has definitely, definitely changed. How do you feel? I mean, is it possible You have to, I have to be It's not perfect, but it has sustained us and it has sustained us through good times and in bad times. And it's been a little bit rocky at times, and many will say it's Would you say that? It's different. It's very different. I worry about political divisions in our society. And how that might impact and public safety. We cannot be a divided nation. We can be a very unique but we've got to figure there's something common with all of us, but you just gotta find it. I gotta go in and do It's 1:20 p.m. Alright. Good luck. Polarization in modern American politics didn't start with Trump and it didn't start with the Tea Party. Instead, the key inflection Newt Gingrich became Gingrich normalized a provocative politics that characterized and compromise as surrender. The electoral success of that strategy embedded and pushed politicians like We try to come together as much as we can, but you know, in fairness, No family that I know of is perfect. Everybody loving one another You might love one another, but you might not necessarily all get along all at the same time. And so it's important that or different disagreements to share them. We're kind of like a big family and sometimes the family's not but we're all brought Why do you think lawmakers disregard norms around civility? Maybe, again, that's that we're seeing in society. You know, people are seemingly angrier. When I was growing up, I'd never heard of anything called road rage. When you think about how we are able to use social media to call them bullies, call whatever it is. When did we get to a place where somehow or other it was acceptable personally when we don't know them? I think we see that reflected with government. We can argue, we can but we don't need to Do you think it's salvageable? I have to be an optimist about where I am and what I'm doing and why I'm doing it. I don't think I would get and come here if I didn't or other make a difference. I'm a mom of two boys, You see how the power of example is so important with your own children. And so I think that it's part of our job, our responsibility as lawmakers to model good behavior. Have you considered calling or something to re-parent them? There's an idea. I kind of love that. I kind of like- I'm gonna call your mother if you don't. I'm curious, do you think the more like the House? Yeah, I say that with 'cause I don't think that's good for us. The Senate was by design meant to be more deliberative, slower. I mean, you've got longer to the kinda the whims of Now it gets frustrating because there's built in inefficiencies. And I get that. It does allow for I think a more tempered to really thinking through what and hopefully stronger outcomes. Have you ever had a moment where you thought about quitting your job? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. serious moments? Well, the most serious was I came back as part of an appointment. People will recall or maybe they don't. When my father appointed Yeah. to make that ask. It was crazier for me to accept. And I left them at home and do the craziest wild thing possible. And it was hard. And there were times when I literally, you know, went to bed what have I done? And then, you know, you kind and say what you've done is you've made a commitment that you're gonna serve. I get on that crazy when we've crossed over Alaska airspace, it's just of opens up and the air is clearer and your head just kind of opens up and you can breathe. And it's like, ah, this This is why I do what I do. That's how you get filled up again.