This video was made possible by CuriosityStream. Watch thousands of documentaries free for In 1973, a new kind of jet lands in America. It's called... an Airbus, and it's more airliner before it. "Well I think it's a very big improvement, comfortable for passengers... In an effort to impress airlines, Airbus sends But few believe this plane has a future. The odd European airliner and Airbus itself will even survive the next few years. Because it's one thing to build a new airliner, giants like Boeing. In the 1950s, Europe introduced jet travel But whatever lead they may have had in civil Because by the mid-1960s, the world was flying As global demand for long range jets skyrocketed, Douglas seemed virtually unstoppable. By the 1960s, the Americans were building In Europe, once iconic aircraft builders struggled. Because none had the scale or resources to each to more or less build aircraft for their And that meant Europe's manufacturers simply But the solution to Europe's problems was Not the plane, but the way it was being developed; Concorde was the most ambitious civil aviation French and British achieved what neither could But Concorde was largely a politically-motivated aviation industry. Because by the end of the 1960s, cheaper, And with air travel booming, what airlines passengers on shorter routes. A large 'people mover', which was already Europe's aircraft builders had already sketched But none had ever built a large airliner. Te risks were huge and resources thin. So like the Concorde program, the only way But this time, on a much larger scale. In 1967, France, Britain and West Germany And they were soon joined by other European Manufacturers in each country would leverage The Germans would build the fuselage. The French would engineer the cockpit and The wings would be developed by the British Spain would handle the tailplane. It was cooperation on an unprecedented scale. But to compete, the newly formed consortium More efficient and versatile than anything The first ever Airbus would be a plane that Because the A300 would simultaneously haul configuration and raised cabin floor. A supercritical wing would improve efficiency And the A300 would use composite materials The first ever on an airliner. And feature a host of new automation and safety But what really set the Airbus apart were There were just two of them, when every other It meant the A300 would be inherently more And to get the A300 built, Airbus pulled off With Europe's manufacturers scattered across shipped by land, sea and air. Often from more than a thousand kilometers But by the time the first Airbus debuted, it was getting airlines to buy it. Because, Airbus had only sold a handful of The new company and its twin engine widebody And nowhere was the skepticism more intense not only seen as bad investments, but bad So, in a bold move, Airbus decided that the the plane prove itself. In 1973, Airbus sent an A300 directly to the On board were a slick sales team, engineers Over the next six weeks the plane embarked Performing nearly forty demonstration flights "Well I think it's a very big improvement, comfortable for passengers. And we are offering now to the medium-range reach in the long-range wide-body" And if there were any doubts that Airbus was , the A300 had been designed using imperial The operating language wasn't French or German, And powering the A300 were American built In fact, one third of the aircraft's value This plane should've impressed American Airline It didn't. All the demonstration flights in the world Airbus's future. A Boeing Vice president dismissed the A300 that Airbus would only sell a dozen or so And it wasn't a far fetched prediction. Between December 1975 and May of 1977, Airbus A global recession and oil crisis ground the Completed A300s sat unsold and there were It was starting to look like the entire Airbus "The A300 is our biggest new investment. It's quiet, fuel-efficient, and specious. But if our crew doesn't make you feel comfortable, In probably the sweetest deal in airline history, In 1977, America's Eastern Airlines was allowed The move... was nothing short of genius. Because the A300 quickly proved to be more twenty percent more efficient than anything Thoroughly impressed with the A300's performance, Airlines ordered 23 jets at a cost of $778 The single largest American order for foreign Airbus's gamble paid off. With a major American Airline operating the earned a reputation for it's high performance And in 1977, the A300 became the first twin-engine decades-old 60 minute ETOPs rule. The extension increased the A300's versatility, longer range versions of the jet. And with an improving global economy in the caught on. By the 1980s, hundreds of orders had been The A300's innovations would go on to influence twin-engine configuration would soon become But for Airbus, the A300 was more than just With multinational partnerships, a sophisticated philosophy in place, the groundwork was now Airbus changed the landscape of aviation forever, what comes next. What transportation might look like in the An incredible nineteen-part series examining You can watch it exclusively on CuriosityStream, four hundred documentaries and non-fiction From history and nature to engineering and dive into fascinating topics. Unlimited access, is just $2.99 a month. But you can get started with the first 31 and use the promocode 'mustard' when you