Nanxing Don't be late for the blind date tonight. Yamei Hotel, Room 1208. Don't screw this up for me. Auntie Xiang I'm on my way. Fan I'll go check it out. Hop in. Share a ride. Mister Take me to the Yamei Hotel. About hitting me... Forget it. Let go. No. I'll fall. Trying to die? I'm not freeloading. I'll pay you. Ah! Jerk! Bullying a woman? What kind of man are you? If I ever run into another shameless woman who tries to extort money by faking an accident... Don't hold back. It's Fan. Hey. Mister. What's she doing here? Following me ? It's so fated that we meet again, Mister. Three of us. Who is this? I get it. Here, this is for you. You're welcome. Size small. A perfect match for you, Mister. Bye-bye! That darn woman. Fan Come in. Hello? I'd like to report illegal activity at the Yamei Hotel. Room 1003. There's prostitution going on. Come and arrest him! That's what you get for messing with me. Humph! Hahahaha! Trying to drug me? Hehe. Well, little Nanxing, I may be almost 50, but I take good care of myself. And, well, my body... isn't bad, huh? Most importantly, I'm rich! If you marry me, you'll have more money than you can spend. Hahahaha! You're so great! The Nan family's billions in debt... It all depends on you. What? I paid five million for you! How did it become billions? Auntie Xiang said we need to find a son-in-law for the Nan family to pay off the debt. Ah! This Shi Zhenxiang She dares to dig a pit for me to jump in I want to break off the engagement Brother , don't! Ah, brother! A moment of spring night is worth a thousand gold Brother, come on! Come, come, come! You're wasting my wine Go away, go away Get out! Get out of here! Brother ! Hmph, trying to compete with me Aunt Xiang, Brother wants to break off the engagement with me Hurry and come! Ah, ah! 1997 Yao Yao! That jerk is trying to bully me Come save me, Yao Yao! Mhm! Yo! Little cutie You're back! Wang Youcai! Let me go! What are you doing? You! Let me go, Wang Youcai! Make sure you film clearly! I want to ruin this little cutie Nanxing! Go away, stop filming! Get out! Mom! What are you doing here? Where's Nanxing? I'm going! The most beautiful designer Shi Zhenxiang Adulteress with the wealthy Wang Youcai Hot news! Aunt Xiang! Nanxing took it with care! Nanxing! What are you doing here? Give me the phone! I won't give it to you! Hurry, hurry, hurry! What are you still filming for? Get lost! Are you okay, Mom? Oh! No sound ... Could it be that they've been taken away? Uncle, haven't you been taken away yet? Taken away? That... Hey! Hey, beautiful sister, left? So short of time... Could it be kidney deficient? What? Trying to provoke me? You want to try? I don't want to! Uncle! Please, I beg you, Let me go! Not letting go! Then, I'm sorry! Say who sent you here! Say! Who sent you here? No one sent me here. Uncle, why are you harassing me? I'll give you one more chance. Who sent you? Uh. Shi Zhenxiang. Shit, so fragrant. Uh-huh. What did she send you for? She's my stepmother. Sent me to seduce men. Seducing me? No, no, not you. It's to seduce other men. Uncle, I'm still a college student. Please, just let me go. You. Speak. Fan Ye. Checked it out. She's the second miss of the Nan family. Heard she's not too bright. She's a fool. She went to 1208 today for a blind date . Fool. I see you're just pretending to be a fool. Don't let me see you again. Otherwise, I won't go easy on you. Get lost. Hey, don't move. Show your ID. Someone reported you for illicit activities. Uncle. Aren't you getting arrested? The report call was made by her. No way. You shot yourself in the foot. Officer. You've misunderstood. I have no relationship with him at all. You can ask him. Fan Ye, you've been troubled. I've already taken care of it for you. It's all a misunderstanding. I'll take you home now. I'll take you. Uncle. You can't leave me here. If you can report it, then can you solve it? How does he know the report call was made by me? Uncle. Uncle, the child is innocent. This woman. What trick is she playing again? You cheat on me behind my back, and that's one thing. You still want to force me to have an abortion. Why do you treat us two like this? You hit me too. Ah. Don't you love me anymore? Ah. Crazy. Bail her out. Yes. Baby, don't cry. Daddy doesn't want you. Mommy wants you. Miss, you should go home and take care of the baby. Fan Ye will figure it out. Woman! You've completely embarrassed me ! I was almost assaulted! You hit me without even asking! Hit you? Hitting you is getting off easy! Five million, right there! Gone! Just like that! You even dare to cheat on me?! I'm telling you, I'm divorcing you! I only went there because I got a call from Nanxing. That's why I went! I'm a victim too! Go on. Yes, Dad. It's all that Nanxing woman! She set me up! She framed Mom and me! You can't blame Mom for this! If you hadn't brought the reporters, would the Nan family have suffered this humiliation? You caused all this! I thought it was Nanxing. Shut up! Useless good-for- nothing! You're nothing but trouble! I'm telling you, I'm drafting the divorce papers right now! You better pack your things and get out of the Nan house! Chenggong, please let me explain! Explain what?! Chenggong , please let me explain, Mom! Yaoyao! You're hurt! Does your hand hurt? Let me blow on it. Nanxing, you! You dared to push me on purpose! Believe me, I'll kill you! Ow! I told you not to hit me! Yesterday it was all threats and violence, and today they're showing off their love. Something's fishy. Yin Yuan is here today to pick up his bride. Yaoyao has someone she likes. She definitely can't marry him. Nanxing, you'll marry him. Well, well, Shi Zhenxiang. You've been holding back, haven't you? Aunt Xiang, I heard there's a monster living in Yin Yuan. He's killed three wives in one year. I don't want to go. You have to marry him. Being able to marry into Yin Yuan in place of your sister is a blessing you've earned over several lifetimes. Ah! Dad, I don't want to go! Nanxing, sit down, sit down. Let's talk. Let me tell you something. With your intelligence, being able to get married is good enough. Master, Madam, the people from Yin Yuan are here. Yaoyao Take her to change. Ah Aunt Xiang You really want to marry me off to that monster ? Humph Hidden Garden is the most mysterious place in Jincheng. No one knows who the owner is. They only know he's disfigured and crippled. Anyone who marries him is doomed. Nanxing, don't be afraid. There's no monster in Hidden Garden. Don't you like cake? The place is full of them. I want cake. Since you want to use me as a pawn, I'll play along. Let's see who can outsmart whom. Nanxing, get in the car. Sir, the bank said the 100 million dowry has arrived. Oh, honey, you're so amazing. Carjacking at South Suburban Bridge. I can't marry into Hidden Garden. After this is done, you'll be off the hook for the favor you owe me. This time, Nanxing is definitely going to die. Hello? Is Nanxing dead? What? She's barely breathing. I'm on my way. Mom, let's not go. I have to go. Finish off that little darling's last breath. Aunt Xiang, I'm in so much pain. Am I dying? Ten years ago, Yaoyao pushed you off the cliff. You should have died then. Looks like I have to help you along. Aunt Xiang, what are you doing ? Besides not wanting Yaoyao to marry into Hidden Garden, what I wanted most was to kill you. Why? Why? Because you're that woman's daughter. Of course I couldn't tolerate you. But my mom was your best friend. Hahaha . If I wasn't her best friend, how could I steal her husband and take her fortune? Oh, I forgot to tell you. Your mother's ashes... I tossed it into the sewers south of the city. But don't worry, when you die, I'll let you and your mother be reunited. Oh! Your mother, on her deathbed, begged me to spare your life. Hahaha! Shi Zhenxiang! You've finally revealed your true colors. Nan Xing. You're playing dumb. Even if you weren't dumb, what could you do? You're going to die anyway. Young Master, it seems they didn't come to assassinate the Young Madam. It's more like they came to kidnap her. Young Master, we found out the SUV belongs to Lei Bao's men. The Young Madam is Lei Bao's woman. Send a message to Lei Bao. Yin Yuan won't harm her. Young Master, what if Lei Bao insists on having her ? Then there's no need to be polite. Wen Yuan, back to Yin Yuan. Yes, sir. She actually knows people from the Thunder Organization. Have someone take good care of her. Warn her that if she wants to live, she better stay at Yin Yuan. Yes, Young Master. Four of a kind. Grandpa, I'm almost out of cards. These cards aren't right. These cards aren't right! Hey! Grandpa, you can't do this. You're cheating! Hahaha! Oh dear! Mo'er's first three brides didn't survive entering my Fan family home. But Nan Yaoyao is different. What doesn't kill you makes you stronger. I believe Nan Yaoyao will definitely give my Fan family a big, fat great-grandson. Grandpa, I've said that I'll never marry. What kind of talk is that? How can one live a life without descendants? If you don't have children, it's like you've lived in this world for nothing. Grandpa, yesterday, people from the World Medical Organization came to see me, and said that this strange illness of mine... There's no cure. I don't have much time left. What are you saying? You' re forcing me to get married and have children. What will happen to them then? That's none of your concern. I'll take care of it. Grandpa. I'm not cursed. But three lives are on my conscience. Clearly someone in the Fan family doesn't want me to marry and have children. You should know who it is. This assassination attempt, I won't hold it against you. But after we return, I will break off my engagement with Nan Yaoyao. I will never marry. You brat! I'll never allow you to divorce my granddaughter-in-law! Young Madam! Your mother's ashes... I scattered them in the sewer in South City. Young Madam! In the end... everyone dies. Young Madam! Mom! Young Madam, you're finally awake! Where am I? This is Hidden Garden. I need to go out. Huh? Young Madam, you can't leave. The Young Master gave orders. You need to rest. I'm sorry. When I get back, I'll explain to your Young Master. Young Master. We've found out it was your third uncle who sent people to assassinate you. Are we just going to let this go? My third uncle is obsessed with getting rid of me so he can have the Fan family fortune all to himself. But what Grandpa hates most is infighting. Forget it. Speak. Young Master, it's bad! The Young Madam has run away! Back to Hidden Garden! Yes, sir! Mom! Ten years... I've endured it for ten years. I finally found you. Mom... Wait for me. I'll avenge you. Nan Chenggong, Shi Zhenxiang. Your good days are over. Chenggong, the master said idiots can't be buried in the ancestral graveyard. Just find somewhere to take care of it. Nan Xing, you idiot! You dared to scare us! I'm gonna beat you to death! How dare you hit me! That's right, I hit you! You're not stupid. Of course. Woman, how dare you challenge us! Mom! Dad! Nanxing hit me! You little brat! You're out of control ! Hey! Ah! Stop hitting me, you little cutie! Ah! Nanxing! Stop it! You ungrateful daughter! What are you doing? What? Beating the dog, of course. You would even hit your own father? Would you? You 're worse than an animal! You think you're worthy? You feel sorry for Nan Yaoyao, right? Well, she'll pay for it! She'll pay your dues. If it weren't for you... My mom wouldn't have died in childbirth! What does that have to do with me? This slap... is for my... unborn little brother and sister. If you want to hit someone, hit your dad! Why are you hitting my daughter?! From today onwards... I, Nanxing... am cutting all ties with you! We're done! Young Master? Where is she? Miss came back on her own. Xiaodie. Spread the word. Yin Yuan has decided to call off... the engagement with the Nan family's eldest daughter. I will never marry. Yes, Young Master. Come in. Mister! Please, I beg you, let me go! That voice... sounds so familiar. That voice ... sounds so familiar . Oh no. I love to take a bath, I love bath time! Waaah! You pervert! You... You deliberately left the bathroom door open! You were trying to play hard to get, weren't you?! You! Ah, yes? Yes, Young Master? Keep an eye on that woman. If she escapes again... I'll hold you responsible. Yes, yes, Young Master. Took advantage and now you want to run? Do you think I'm a pushover? Miss, your face... Oh, I was born this way. You don't think I'm ugly, do you? No, no, no, no. Don't all men hate ugliness? If I don't make myself uglier, how can I divorce the owner of Hidden Garden sooner? Right. Where is that jerk? Miss, you' re talking about the Young Master. Uh, not your crippled Young Master. It's a masked pervert. When I find him, I'll skin him alive. But besides the Young Master, there's no one else here. Come to Nanxing, I' m singing at Allure tonight. You must come, okay? Love you, Fatty Sweet. I'm sleepy. I'm going back to my room to sleep. Without my permission, no one is allowed to disturb me. Hey, Miss, you're not going to run away again, are you? I swear I won't run away. Two fingers doesn't really count as swearing, does it? Why am I running into this plague again? Ouch! Amo, my head really hurts. Drop it. Don't test my limits. I'm not interested in women. Not interested in women? Does that mean he likes men? Aha! I've caught you red-handed! Hello, In that case, have a drink with us first. Sorry, I can't drink. I really can't drink. Gu Tiantian, you dare refuse my drink? Who do you think you are? Bullying my friend? Who do *you* think you are? What? It's her. What is she doing here? I have to get her number. Stop. Don't go. Why? You dare bully my friend? Today I'll show you why the flowers are so red. So young, yet so feisty. Hey, Amo, on your wedding night, instead of being with your wife, you're making me drink with you, and you won't even let a woman sit next to you. You can't just make me stay single with you, right? Shut up and watch the show. Enough. I see you're just here to make trouble. What? You guys can bully the weak, but I can' t stand up for my friend? You better think it through. The thing you just smashed is worth six figures. Have you thought about how to pay for it? You guys started this. Why should I pay? Not paying. Don't even think about leaving. How are you threatening me? Should I call the police? Let the cops decide. See who's right and who's wrong. Let the cops decide. See who's right and who's wrong. Do we need the police? That's quite troublesome. I have a simple method. What is it? Let's have a competition. If you win, I'll let you and your friends leave. If you lose, I'll do as I please. What can we compete in? Drinking! I'm telling you this Gu Lin, isn't that bullying? Her family runs a winery. Who can outdrink her? Hey, I'm betting on this . This little beauty will lose. 500,000. I'm betting she'll win. Nanxing, just give it up. Let's just back down and leave. I won't lose. Miss Gu, why not make it bigger? How about a liquor challenge? Sure! It's your turn. Drink up, drink up, drink up. Wow, can't even finish a bottle of liquor? What kind of physique is this? Hmph, this is interesting. Women daring to bluff. A wager is a wager. Don't talk recklessly about things without evidence. Otherwise, be careful I tear your mouth apart. Pour the drink. No way, I absolutely can't lose. I can't let A Mo look down on me. Nanxing, are you okay? I'm a bit full. In the future, if anyone dares to bully you again, just call Fan Ye. Just say you're Fan Ye's woman. Do you know Fan Ye? Just a little tempted by his body. She says she's tempted by your body. Your ears aren't deaf. Take these two women out. Beat me up! The esteemed Miss Gu, can't even accept a bet. Shameful. If you kneel and beg, I might consider sparing you. Never! Drag her out! I'll take responsibility if she dies. Nanxing! Mister! We meet again. Yeah. Get out! Amo! You have to stand up for me! I don't want to repeat myself. Get out! I don't want to repeat myself. Get out! Fine. I'll get out right now. Stop! Mister? Talking to me? Who are you calling &quot;Mister,&quot; woman? Onlookers, get out! Let's go. Are you treating my words like they're nothing? What are you talking about? Let me think... Next time I see you, I won't go easy on you. Mister! I didn't mean to show up in front of you. I'm here to see a friend. If I knew you were here, I definitely wouldn't have come. Mister, I swear, if I'm lying, I'll be hit by a car! Struck by lightning! Marry a jerk and be abused to death! You're hurt. I'm fine, Mister. If you're okay, I'll be going now. You look pale, your steps are unsteady. You're practically possessed by a terminal illness. Mister! Your pulse is erratic. I'm afraid you're about to spontaneously combust. You know medicine? If you can stabilize my condition, from today onwards, you're mine, Fan Jingmo's. Who wants to be yours? As long as you don't bother me, that's fine. Master Fan. Gorgeous Fan. Don't tell me he actually fell asleep. Time and time again, you unscrupulously try to get my attention. What's your motive ? Mister! You're awake. Master, it's bad! The young mistress ran away again! I'll be right back. Hey. Just leaving like this? It's nine o'clock. It's over. I have to hurry back to Inyuan. If I'm found out, it's over. Who sent you here? Blame it on your bad choice in marriage. Tell your master when you go back. No matter what grudges you have with Inyuan, don't come looking for me. Get lost. This bride is not ordinary. Hurry up and leave. Can't even keep an eye on a woman. What use is Inyuan raising you? Please spare me, sir. Go find her. If you can't find her, don 't come back. Yes, sir. Miss. The young master and young mistress are back. She's sleeping in the bedroom. Shameless. Get up. Don't wake her, she's sleeping. Nanyao Yao. Get up. You feed her. Don't wake her, be good. Mommy loves you. What a mystery. Since you dared to peek at the lady, I'll beat you to death. Miss, don't hit me. This, this is the young master. Oh. Everyone out. I want to sleep now. Yes. Damn woman. No sleeping. Get up for me. Hey, it's bad, young master. The master is angry with the second master. Now, now at the old residence. Returning to the Fan family is-- Wait. If she gets up, just give her the divorce agreement directly. If she doesn't sign it, throw her out. Yes, sir. Hey. Little Die. So that masked man is your young master , huh? Yes, miss. Look, you have angered the young master. Now he wants to divorce you. Divorce? That's quite a feeling. Dad. What about the factory in the south of the city? What should we do? If grandpa wakes up, he's definitely going to kill me. How about-- We just give up. And move on. What nonsense are you talking? Oh. Jingmo is here. Fan Jingmo! Didn't you hear me? My father is talking to you ! Are you deaf?! Third Uncle. You and Second Uncle better pray that Grandpa will be alright. Young Master Jingmo. The old master won't be waking up anytime soon. You should get some rest. Why did Grandpa collapse? Oh. The Second Young Master embezzled funds and pocketed the money for wastewater treatment. It caused serious pollution at the South City factory. The Fan family's stock has been greatly affected. It made the old master faint. Grandpa, you're awake! Oh! Mo 'er, you're here. Help me sit up. Grandpa. You should go to the hospital and get a full checkup. I'll take care of the South City incident. Aren't you staying out of the company's affairs? Are you going or not? I'm going, I'm going. Oh! Why didn't my granddaughter-in-law come? Your young master was kicked out. How can they get divorced now? Our young master went back to the family estate for something. Oh, right, Miss. This is from the young master. The divorce agreement and compensation terms. Amo. Grandpa Fan has mid-stage liver cancer. What? Grandpa Fan is weak now. If he gets upset again like yesterday, he might not wake up again. A villa in the suburbs, 40 million in cash. Your young master is pretty generous. Hello? Don't let her sign it. Huh? Oh! Don't sign yet. Our young master called. What? Having second thoughts? Tell your young master this divorce must happen. Wants a divorce? Return the 100 million betrothal gift. Wh-what? What? Return 100 million to get divorced? They hid this from me! They asked for a 100 million betrothal gift! Damn it! Wh-what are you doing? You ungrateful girl! You dare come to the hospital?! Nan Yaoyao! Get your dad to hurry up And give me back the 100 million dowry Otherwise, I'll break your legs Dad You better not This is the Chu family's hospital Nobody from Jincheng Dares to make trouble here My daughter Let me go Aunt Xiang, the moment we meet It's such a big gift I feel a bit embarrassed Well, you little cutie Dare to hit my daughter Just wait until I scratch you to death You unfilial daughter Let go of your Aunt Xiang Success Dad Come on! Someone is making trouble in the ward Murder! Don't be too anxious Grandpa Fan's liver cancer still has a chance I've asked the world's top doctors to save him If I don't get the 100 million today I won't leave Let go of my hand! Unfilial daughter Let go of me, it hurts! Let go! Grandpa Fan, Young Master Chu What are you doing here? Ah Hey, uncle, nice to see you again Making trouble in the hospital? Feeling lucky, huh? We're just having some fun here Right, step -mom? Hahaha Hey, look at my dad Jumping for joy! Come out! Hahaha! Me? What, how much? I sell my talent, not my body The people from the World Medical Organization said My condition is untreatable But you can stabilize it? Name your price The Nan family definitely blew through the dowry Now we can only think of ways to make money Divorce that big fool from Yinyuan One hundred million Uncle If you think one hundred million is too much Ten million is fine too You're Fan Ye after all Can you really care about that little money? Uncle, uncle Uncle, one acupuncture session costs 1 million It can't be any less You're not worth 1 million Barely acceptable Fan Ye The prize money for the architectural design competition in the south of the city Has been raised to 10 million Are you going to tomorrow's meeting? Do rich people act this arrogant? Don't know when in a blue moon I'll be able to afford a divorce. Hello? What? The prize money for the architectural design competition is actually up to 10 million. A classmate reported you for skipping class and dating. You're only a sophomore. You should spend more energy on your studies. That way you'll find a better man in the future, right? Seriously? Talk about a small world. Professor Lin, I'm here for the architectural design competition meeting. Professor Lin, can I leave now? No. Fan-ge, I'll go talk to the principal. Mm-hmm. Wait for me at the gate after school. I refuse. One million. I'm really good at acupuncture. See you at the gate after school. Get away from me. Go sit in the front. Wen Yuan, to Tian Ge. Yes. If they knew there was a super hot guy in the car, they'd be totally blinded by his handsomeness. Get here for acupuncture in 30 seconds. I'll endure it for my one million. Gorgeous Fan, were you having a nightmare? Don't go. Fan Jingmo, let me go! Please! Please don't leave me. Don't leave me. Why are you in my bed? Shameless woman! What did you do to me? It hurts! Let go! You were the one who dragged me into bed. You're the one who threw me out of bed! Are you even a man? After sleeping. .. we've already... Hey, don't talk nonsense! Nothing happened between us. This awful place... I can't stand to be here another second. I don't want the million. Come back if you want it. About last night... don't tell anyone. I'm the one who should be worried about my reputation. Hey. You're a married man, bringing a woman here for a rendezvous. If this gets out , aren't you afraid the one at Yin Yuan will be jealous? She's treating my illness. That's all there is to it. Are you serious? Don't you feel anything at all? No. Hey. You say you aren't into women. Then that old man Fan has to give up on the idea of having great-grandchildren. Tell me, how can a woman willingly have children? What? Who are you going to have kids with? Nan Xing. Chu Liuchuan. Ah , that person from Yinyuan, right? Isn't it? Hey. I don't like her. But she's the only one who can have this child. What did you say? Your young master wants to have a child with me? Miss , please don't get agitated. Our young master said as long as you're willing to have his child, you can set any conditions. Let him have his own uncle! He can have his own kids. I'm not going to have his child. Once I save up a hundred million, I'll divorce him. Little Miss, Miss. What kind of people are these? I don't even know what they look like. And they want me to have their children? And I can set any conditions? Teacher Chen Hui is really nice, but I have someone I like. Her. She's from our school. Professor Lin. Nan Xing. You came! Professor Lin, what do you want with me? I came to find you to tell you some good news. You made it to the finals for the architectural design competition. So does that mean I can go for the ten million prize now? Ten million. That's still eighty-eight million away from a hundred million. When will I ever have enough to pay the bride price? Nan Xing, what bride price? Bride price? It's nothing. Nan Xing, this is a gift for your advancement. Professor Lin. It's not very valuable. Just a pen. Uncle, where did you pop up from? Why are you throwing things at me? Teacher-student romance. Light punishment is losing your job Severe punishment is going to prison Professor Lin wouldn't break the law, would he? Nanxing is my student. She has been promoted. As her teacher, it's not excessive to send her a congratulatory gift. I don't send gifts to other students, just her. Even if I like Nanxing, I will wait for her to grow up. I advise Professor Lin to stay away from my people. Hey! Wow, Fan Ye looks so handsome! Let go of me! You climbed into my bed yesterday, today you're trying to crawl into Lin Youqian's? You dare to hit me? You were the one who spoke rudely first. I'm innocent with Professor Lin. I respect him. If you dare to talk nonsense again, don't blame me for being rude. I want to see how you will be rude to me. Let go of me, or I'll scream! Help! Disturbance! He's so close, is he trying to kiss me? Hey, Professor Lin! Fan Jingmo, why did you throw my phone? If you keep making noise, you'll lose your person. You 're not mine anyway. Who are you to control me? Interacting with Professor Lin, he has ulterior motives. Ah! EAR Uncle! You don't actually like me, do you? Are you jealous? Hey, Uncle! You're blushing. Are you shy? Boring. Uncle can't be actually liking me, right? Impossible. Grandpa, you're awake! Mo'er. I heard from the butler that you brought a girl to Tiange the other day. Is she the one from your hidden garden? Your wife? No. Do you like her? Ah! EAR Uncle! You don't actually like me, do you? I don't like her , but I admire her greatly. What a pity. If she were your hidden garden's wife, how wonderful it would be. Nanxing and the bride of the hidden garden, how could they possibly be the same person? Happy birthday, Mom! Xiao Die ! Miss. Is there a car in the hidden courtyard? Yes. Yeah. What about this one? This is the car from our garage. And this one? This was bought by the young master last year. Oh. This one, this one ... If I don't have kids, being a wealthy lady wouldn't be bad either. Oh, and this one. What are you thinking? Nanxing. Money can't buy your dignity. But the young master seems to say he wants to give it to the second master. Yeah, and this one... This one is the young master's favorite car to drive. And this one. The young master also said it seems like the horsepower isn't very good. But this car, this car is really beautiful. When will I be able to afford one? Well, isn't the young master's yours? Happy birthday, mom! I bought you your favorite, lilies. And I took care of that jerk dad and stepmother. Little brat. Your dad reported the Fan family's factory. I'll take it out on you today. Get lost. Don't be scared. Are you okay? Dad is dead. He was literally suffocated to death. What on earth happened here? The Fan family's factory pollution is too severe. Dad wanted to shut down the factory. They disagreed. They literally beat my dad to death. They've gone too far. I'll take you to find them. Thank you, sister. You don't need to thank me. My mom is also buried here. I also want the Fan family factory to close. Let's go. The factory in the south of the city cost the Fan family billions in stock. You should voluntarily withdraw from the board. Grandpa is still alive. Who do you think you are? How dare you order me around? How can you even mention grandpa? If it weren't for you provoking him, he wouldn't be in the hospital. If you don't get lost, I'll have someone carry you out. Do you dare? Fan, it's bad! There's a woman at the company causing a scene with a child, saying she wants to find the person in charge of the factory in the south. Fan Jingmo, I'm only now before I came back Get out of Fan's You're the one in charge of the Chengnan factory. You're the one causing trouble at Fan's. I have one request. Shut down the Chengnan factory. The factory can't be shut down. Do you know how many families are suffering from serious illnesses because of the factory's wastewater discharge? Is your conscience eaten by a dog? In her heart, I'm the kind of person who would do this. I understand now. All the losses will be borne by Fan's. I guarantee the factory will no longer discharge wastewater. You guarantee it? If I had known you were so heartless, I shouldn't have treated you back then. Nang Xing. Fan Jingmo. I'll give you one day to think it over. If you don't close the door, just wait to be exposed. I don't believe Fan's can cover up everything. What is this woman's background? She dares to slam the table at Fan Jingmo. Wants to stand up for the villagers of Chengnan? We'll see how many lives you have. Fan Ye. What is her relationship with the villagers of Chengnan? I checked, but found nothing. No one has ties to Miss Nan. Then keep investigating. You actually used a drug to confuse me. Otherwise, how would you listen obediently? Did Fan Jingmo send you? Yes. Fan Jingmo sent me. Sent me to ruin your reputation. You even dare to provoke the infamous Fan Ye. You must be tired of living. But, well, if you can serve me well tonight, maybe I'll spare your life. Fan Ye , this-- Miss Nan. How did she end up here? Nang Xing. Take her back to school first. What about the factory's pollution investigation? Pause it for now. Not for now. My eyes... You rotten woman, I won 't let you go. Professor Lin, what are you doing here? You're finally awake. Last night you... Lying in front of the infirmary. The school faculty almost freaked out. Yeah. Fan Jingmo sent me here. Sent me to ruin your reputation. Professor Lin. Did you bring your laptop? Yes. The infirmary staff said Miss Nan is alright now. Look into what happened last night. Mr. Fan, it's bad. Someone planted a virus in the company's system. All confidential files are all gone. The hacker's IP address, did you find it? Not yet. What's wrong, Nanxing? Nothing much. Just met a formidable opponent. Hacked Professor Lin's computer. Hacked it. Oh. Okay, I fixed it for you. And I also did a good deed for the people. The CEO's office said the PR department has an emergency. The top 20 trending topics are all negative news about the Fan Group. Mr. Fan, the person who posted the news has been found. It's Nanxing. Miss Nan. Nanxing. Jingmo. Old Man Fan coughed up blood. To the hospital. Yes. Mo'er. Grandpa. Mo'er. Grandpa was wrong. Wrong in that I trusted your third uncle too much. Look at what our Fan family has become. It's all because of this father and son. Grandpa. About the Chengnan factory, I'll handle it. The Fan Group will be fine. After this is over, you don't have to worry about my reputation. And you don't have to keep putting up with them. Grandpa. You rest well. I' m going out for a bit. Find a villager from Chengnan Village and have them clarify the Chengnan factory incident. Not answering the phone. Good. Did you have a fight with Mr. Fan? Yeah. Nanxing, do you like him? I know . Mr. Fan is great in every way. But for you, he's not suitable. Professor Lin, what do you mean? Being with him will only hurt you. If you're willing, I can protect you always. I only see you as a teacher, Professor. Professor Lin, if I see you harassing students again, your career as a professor will be over. Mr. Fan, why do you keep monopolizing Nanxing? What do you like about her? Even if you like her, you won't marry her. You're a teacher, having inappropriate feelings for a student. You're not qualified to ask me. Let go of me! Let go! Enough! Both of you, get out of my way! Nanxing ! Let go! Why did you sabotage Fan Group's network and spread negative comments about Fan Group? 97. I thought Mr. Fan was a decent man. Until you threatened me with dirty, despicable tactics. So you attacked Fan Group? What else? Good. You've successfully angered me. So what if you're angry? Go ahead, kill me! Don't think I won't touch you. Hmph, my fate is my own. It's not certain who will die first. Fan Jingmo, are you even a man? Bullying a woman! If you have the guts, fight fair and square. Fan Jingmo, are you a dog?! This is just a lesson. You stay out of the Chengnan factory issue. You' re not allowed to interfere anymore. I'll take care of the factory pollution issue. I will. I won't! So naive. Think you're so great because you're rich and powerful? Behave yourself. If you want to live. Jerk! Still threatening me? Believe it or not, I'll bankrupt Fan Group. Last month, she went back to the Nan family home and injured my whole family. Valuable things, and she smashed everything in the house. Ugh. If it weren't for Nan Xing's schemes, our Nan family wouldn't have gone bankrupt. I disowned her. Let me tell you netizens a secret. Nan Xing at school was kept by a 90-year-old man. Everyone knows it . Thank you, Second Young Master Fan. Humph. Nan Xing, don't you love doing good deeds? Then I'll ruin your reputation. Hitting her father, insulting her mother, and stealing things at school. Oh my god. There are such people in this world? Yeah, yeah. This woman deserves to die. The Fan family's PR is really something. I underestimated you, Fan Jingmo. Nan Chenggong and Shi Zhenxiang are lying in the hospital ward, and they're not being honest. Find someone to take good care of them. They shouldn't come out for two months. Yes, Mr. Fan, I'll arrange it right away. But, I heard from Miss Nan's friend that Miss Nan's mother seems to be buried in South City. Young Master, you care so much about Miss Nan, do you like her? Say another word and you'll go to South Africa. I don't like her. Take down all of Nan Xing's online messages. Mom, it's my fault. You were bullied when you were alive, and after you died, you were cyberbullied because of me . It's going to rain. Let's go back. Why do you have a fever? Okay, I understand. Mr. Fan, Miss Nan was taken home by Professor Lin. Go to the Lin residence. Yes. Mr. Fan, what are you doing here? Just felt like coming. I know you're here for Nan Xing. But do you know why Nan Xing was cyberbullied? Do you know, Mr. Fan? So what? Nan Xing won't see you. Have her come down and say it herself. She has a high fever and is unconscious. Mr. Fan, if you have nothing else to do, please leave. Fan Jingmo, what are you trying to do? Fan Jingmo, stop! Fan Jingmo! When Nan Xing wakes up, she'll hate you. Our business... None of your business. She's still sick. Fan Jingmo. Why hasn't she woken up yet? The doctor said it was because she was caught in the rain, coupled with emotional distress, that caused her to faint. You can leave now. Yes. Don't spit it out. Fan Jingmo! You pervert! I'm giving you medicine. Who gives medicine mouth-to-mouth? Take your medicine. Who knows if you poisoned it. You had someone humiliate me, and then ruined my reputation. And now you're pretending to be the good guy. You think I'd believe you? In your heart, am I really that underhanded? Despicable and insidious, you're a villain. Get out! Get out of here right now! Young Master! Young Master! What's wrong? Young Master! Someone! Young Master, wake up! Ghost Nine. A wealthy client from the capital placed an order. Offering ten million. A cure is priceless. What kind of person is so arrogant? Priceless, huh? The patient is anonymous, but funds have been verified. He owns hundreds of gold mines, and that's just the tip of the iceberg of his fortune. This must be some hidden tycoon. If we cure him, we'll have the dowry money. Master Fan, the thing you asked me to look into has a lead. Miss Nan being drugged and cyberbullied was all done by the second young master Fan. Break his legs. The Fan family doesn't mind raising another cripple. Yes, sir. Will the people from Ghost Medical Hall still come? Yes. Even without that woman, there are others who can treat me. My disguise skills are too good. Is anyone there? I'm Ghost Nine from Ghost Medical Hall. I'm here to see the patient. A ghost! Stop! Running away as soon as you see me? Do you know me? I don' t know you. Why are you running? I... Where did you hide my sugar daddy? I am your wealthy sponsor. Why do you run when you see me? Speak. I can't cure your illness. Seek someone more capable . You said that before even looking. Anyway, I won't treat you. If there's nothing else, I'll take my leave. Take the payment and fulfill your duties. Just adhere to medical ethics. You've got guts. Hmph . Aren't you quite bold? Then I'll ruin your happy life. You have ahead of you. The fever finally broke. Nan Xing, oh Nan Xing. To earn the divorce money, you risked your life. Disguise techniques. Fine then. The people from Ghost Doctor Hall are always mysterious. You're awake. Do you want me to sleep forever? This man, does he have to be so venomous? The prescription from Ghost Doctor Hall is worth a fortune. You should keep this safe. This character looks very much like Nan Xing's handwriting. Got something to say? Yes. If you have something to say, say it. If not, leave. Wen Yuan. Go to school and compare Nan Xing's handwriting. Got it. The handwriting is exactly the same. Could it really be Nan Xing? No way. Gui Jiu is a man. Maybe it's just a coincidence. Yang Yang, what are you doing here? Who is she? Wang Bo. This is the person who used the village head's death to threaten the Fan family, causing your entire family to be shattered. You're quite brave. To deal with me, you even dare to use the Fan family. You don't deserve to mention the Fan family. The matters of Chengnan villagers, believe it or not, I avenged the village head for you. Fan Jingmo. A Mo. Get lost! Fan Jingmo. Uncle, why did you save me? What to do, what to do? If the old man finds out, he'll definitely send me to South Africa. Why is it still so hot? This can 't even be fed to you. Hey You beast Let go of my young master I'm saving someone If it weren't for you My young master wouldn't be stabbed You ungrateful woman I shouldn't have saved you back then I don't know why Fan Jingmo saved me The one who wanted to kill me was him Let me tell you The one who drugged you and bullied you online is Fan Jingkun The second young master of the Fan family If it weren't for the incident at the factory in the south of the city Young Master Fan wouldn't have taken over the Fan Group Did I really misunderstand him? But why didn't he explain? My young master just doesn't like to explain Those who understand him will naturally understand Keep your distance from my young master Wen Yuan, let me go Uncle is injured and needs treatment Get out of my way Don't push me Don't push me Hmm Fan Jingmo, Fan Jingmo Saying a word of explanation wouldn't kill you, right? It's making me feel guilty to death now I can't, I still have to find him Otherwise, what if he dies? Hmph, if you won't let me in Then I'll climb in There's no room in this world for a lady that I can't get into What's going on, didn't I climb in? Why is there a wall here? Ah Uncle, what a coincidence We meet again You have quite the hobby Very unique Uncle, I 'm sorry It's my fault I made you hurt and angry I thought I would never see you again What? I already know everything The one who harmed me is Fan Jingkun I have been misunderstanding you all along Who told you this? Um, that Alright , you Wen Yuan Dared to betray me Since you've followed me for ten years Pack your things and go to South Africa Even if you let me go to South Africa, I still want to say This woman has betrayed your feelings and even hurt you She is not worthy of you at all Shut up Uncle Wenyuan is right It's my fault you got hurt I'll take responsibility How are you gonna take responsibility? Go away Uncle Take a deep breath Are you feeling better? Uncle, your illness I can help treat it Can you cure my illness? Hmm Go ahead What's the payment? From today on You are my friend Nanxing Helping a friend with illness is free In her eyes, I'm just a friend It's also my way of repaying you What if I don't want to be friends? Uncle Let's keep our distance, okay? Because I'm married She's married Go back, I'm telling you to go back This guy is like a chameleon His expressions change on a whim I see you're just stubborn Saying you don't like her But still taking the knife for her She's married Seriously, no way Who is it, hey It couldn't be that Lin Youqian, right? A teacher-student romance This Nanxing Really opens my eyes So I can't like her Hey, you and that girl from Yinyuan It's just for show Just get a divorce If not Why don't you try digging up some dirt? If you succeed, you'll win the beauty Do you want to die? Can I just stay quiet, Fan Ye? I can't cheat during marriage So what should I do? First, get a divorce from that girl in Yinyuan No more kids Xiaodie, what's wrong? You 're in such a hurry Miss, you finally came back Young master is inside He's been waiting for you for an hour What happened? He said he wants a divorce Divorce? Last week he had a baby, this week he wants a divorce I haven't 't even earned my one hundred million yet This disabled young master Is too anxious, right? Tell your young master I can't divorce right now If she dares to run away I'll send someone to bring her back I must get this divorce today I'll be waiting right here Let me see who it is talking so big. Mo'er, you decided to get a divorce without even considering me, your grandpa? Sir. Grandpa, I won't marry someone I don't like. You're being ridiculous! I went through so much trouble to get you a wife, and you just want a divorce? You actually... you actually fell in love with a married woman? Grandpa... You investigated me? I care about you. I have to get this divorce today. You... Are you trying to kill me? Grandpa. If you want a great-grandchild, fine, but I will never marry someone I don't like. You. .. You little rascal! Sir, even though the young master doesn't really like the young mistress, at least he likes a woman, right? You know, what you said, I think it makes sense. Pang Tian, when do you think I'll be able to save a hundred million? You're the second Miss Nan. If you don't know, how would I? The Nan family? Nan Xing? Are you having some kind of trouble? No, Professor Lin . We have something to do, so we'll go now. Why have you been avoiding me lately? Professor Lin... I'm sorry, I... Pang Tian, what are you doing? Uncle! What are you doing here? I'm a sponsor of the architectural design competition. Why can't I be here? Professor Lin, if word gets out about you marrying a student, it might not be good for your career. Professor Lin, you're married? Nan Xing, I swear I'm still single. Don't listen to Fan Jingmo's nonsense. Was I wrong? They're not husband and wife? Professor Lin has unusual tastes. He likes married women? What do you mean? Exactly what I said. Professor Lin, I appreciate your feelings, but I'm married. Impossible. I don't believe it. Professor Lin rejected you? I don't mind your marital status. What nonsense are you talking about? I want to compete fairly with your husband. What? I must have misheard you. You're such a prestigious figure. Since you want to be the other woman, pursuing someone you like doesn't count as being the other woman. You came to school just to tell me this? No. The first place in the architectural design competition, I'm determined to have you. Money can't buy everything, old man. And I don't like cheating. I will wait for you to accept my feelings. By the way, your work has received unanimous praise. No cheating. Am I hearing things ? Such a prestigious figure actually likes me, a married person. Why? Is her mysterious husband better than me? Liuchuan. Help me find out who Nanxing's husband really is. Aji. You wouldn't really go after someone else's man, would you ? Pursuing someone you like doesn't count as stealing. Prestigious figure, you're being quite hypocritical. Nanxing. Stay calm. Don't let that handsome guy tempt you. You need to make a billion before you can divorce. Little brat . You're completely out of control. What a nice villa, and she's turned it into this mess. This cute Nanxing, don't let me catch you. Aunt Xiang. Talking bad about others behind their back isn't a good habit , you know. You little cutie, dare to come back. If I remember correctly, this house was bought by my mom. Your mom is already dead. This house is mine now. Get out of here quickly. Nan Cheng, open your eyes wide. See clearly. I am the inheritor of the Nan family's property. Today I will take back everything that belongs to me. You little brat. How dare you forge a will? Whether you believe it or not, get out of my house right now. You little cutie, it's you who should be leaving. It's been one night, and you're already causing trouble again. Old man. You're following me? Su Tiantian said you want to steal the inheritance. That Su Tiantian, is just so rude. Don't listen to Nanxing. That nasty girl is manipulating you. This villa was bought by me. Shut up. Using my mom's money. Are you even a man? Nan family inheritance rights. Lawyers will handle it. Before that, move out. Ah. Ban Ye, this... Shut your mouth. Messing with Ban Ye could cost you your life. Leave. Uncle, why did you stop? Ban family banquet. I need a dance partner, come with me. I'm not going. I invited Su Tiantian. The socialite's soiree. If I don't go, what if Su Tiantian gets bullied? I'll go. You wait for me here. I'll go find grandpa. Nanxing . I advise you not to. A toad wanting to eat swan meat. The Fan family won't allow someone from your background to enter their door. What do you mean? Miss Gu wants to say, only you deserve to enter the Fan family? That's right. Only I deserve to be with Amo. I advise you to get lost as far as possible. What if I refuse to leave? Then don't blame me for being rude. You actually dared to splash me. Not only do I dare to splash you, but I also dare to hit you. Are you scared now? Nanxing, I'm kindly offering you water, why are you hitting me? What trick are you playing this time? Whose young lady is this that dares to cause trouble on my Fan family's territory? This old man is Old Master Fan. I'm finished, I'm finished. I'm definitely dead meat. Grandpa. She is coming with me to the banquet tonight. She is someone I like too. Is this a public confession? You're the woman that Mo Er likes. Doesn't look that great though. Grandpa, my feelings are enough. Grandpa. Nanxing has bewitched Amo. A woman like her, with a bad reputation, getting close to Amo is for money. Gu Lin. For the sake of Gu Ye, I won't hold it against you. Leave the Fan family now. Amo, I'm the real one. People who like you What does she have that I don't? A woman with such a bad reputation Who knows how many men she's slept with And is kept by a 90-year-old man That's enough Whether Nan Xing is good or bad You have no right to judge Whether Nan Xing is good or bad You have no right to judge A Mo, how could you like her? Gu girl So many people don't mind her looks You should go back first Fan Ye Okay I'll go back Nan Xing, we're not done Mo Er Come upstairs with me Mo Er Listen carefully As long as I'm alive Don't think about getting a divorce Being with that woman Grandpa This matter I absolutely won't agree to it Then it won't be up to you If you don't like the one from Yin Yuan Then let it be What kind of medicine have you taken? That you must be with that Notorious woman Grandpa Back then, did you Force my dad to leave my mom? Your mom was notoriously promiscuous Otherwise Could your father have died ? I won't be as weak as my dad Not even able to hold onto The woman he loves You're getting brave, huh? Daring to defy me now Get out and kneel Come back when you've thought it through Get out Go out Young master, did I really do something wrong? But I'm also doing this for your own good For the good of our Fan family You Uncle, I'll kneel with you Mo Er Grandpa can only help you this much Kneel for a night, then go to sleep Inform the young mistress I want a divorce Divorce Is your young master going crazy? Rushing to reincarnate for that billion? Tell him I want a divorce Wait for the young lady to notify him I want to sleep until the end of time Really said that What does this woman really want? Uncle Fan Jing Mo Where has everyone gone? What's going on? The phone is still off. Young master. Where is she? Ever since the young lady found out that she's getting a divorce from you, she hasn't returned to the Hidden Garden. Don't think that by not coming back she can escape. I've been staying at the Hidden Garden waiting for her to come back. I've been waiting for you for a long time. Why didn't you knock before coming in? You are the young mistress of the Hidden Garden. Is that Nanxing, or am I seeing things? I clearly married Nan Yaoyao. How could it be Nanxing? Yeah. What do you want? The last time I saw you, your face wasn't like this. Why are you purposely disguising yourself to trick me? Why is it that you can wear a mask but I can't disguise myself? Don't be so double-standard. Okay? Let go of me, stay away from me. Heaven is still favoring me. The woman I've been thinking about turns out to be my wife. How am I so lucky? You actually are my wife. You're such a pervert. I am not your wife. Once I save up a hundred million, I' ll divorce you. I don't agree to the divorce. One moment you want to divorce, the next you don't. Do you think I'm a fool? Get out! Out, out, out! Fine. Let's wait until she calms down to talk. This crippled young master, is it because he admires my beauty that he wants to have children with me? No, I need to take the order. The starting price is ten million. Fan Jingmo. I'll let you taste the feeling of being crippled. Ah Mo, Ah Mo, Ah Mo. Ah Mo, Ah Mo, wake up! Young Master Chu, Master Fan is in critical condition. External injuries and internal injuries, I'm afraid... Go on. Injuries to the lungs, might not survive for three months. What three months? If you can't save him, all of you get out! We really have no way to help him. If not... Hey.. . If not... you can seek help from the Ghost Doctor Hall. The people of the Ghost Doctor Hall are always mysterious. Looks like only Wenyuan knows. Wenyuan. Quickly, find someone from Ghost Doctor Hall. Something happened to Amo. Saving him is possible, but it'll cost 20 million upfront. Transfer it to the card within three days. Sell the house. The money is almost saved up. I want a divorce. My condition must not be revealed. Especially not to Nanxing. Then what about your wife at Hidden Garden? You can't just not have kids, right? Hidden Garden's young mistress is Nanxing. What? This old guy won't answer the phone. I have an awards ceremony today. He's not coming either ? Ugh! Nanxing is your wife. With three months left to live, that's enough time to have a kid with her. You can't die without even having an heir, right? You're covered in injuries, what are you doing? Going back to the Fan residence. Third Brother, this is the good son you raised. You, for the Fan family fortune, assassinated Jingmo's three brides. I can overlook that, but you even dared to murder your own nephew. I was wrong! Spare me this time! I won't ever touch a single hair on Jingmo's head again. How can I trust you? No, I will not go easy on you this time. Grandpa! Jingmo, you arrived just in time. How do you plan to deal with your third uncle and your cousin? The coal mines in South Africa seem short-staffed. Why don't we send them there? Fan Jingmo, how dare you! Why do you get to live the good life in Jin City while I have to go dig coal in South Africa? Fan Jingkun, don't test my limits. Grandpa, you're so biased! Why does he, Fan Jingmo, get to inherit the Fan family business while I can't? Because you're a hopeless case. Get out! Dad! We'll get out right now. Hurry up. I'm not giving up! Fan Jingmo, just you wait! Grandpa. If something happens to me, I want to leave my inheritance to my ex-wife. How to bring up the inheritance I'm not dead yet What are you in a hurry for? Young Master Jingmo Miss Nan is waiting for you outside Where's Fan Jingmo? Miss Nan Master Fan doesn't want to see you Let him come out to see me I need to talk to him Grandpa Butler It hurts so much You're at it again I'm getting a divorce Uncle Aren't you happy? I'm about to be free Then we can be together openly You're getting a divorce What does that have to do with me? AR BOOK Uncle , you, OOK Nanxing Do you really lack men? What do you mean by that? I just pointed a finger to show you some kindness and you betray your marriage? Don't you think you're cheap? You say I'm cheap ? I'm just playing with you and you took it seriously? Nanxing You need to recognize your own identity Fan Jingmo You really think too highly of yourself I really don't care about you Nanxing I'm sorry I can only let go No man is good Nanxing, don't drink anymore Why drink so much? Miss, your drink Don't drink anymore Mm I want to drink Don't drink anymore Why is it so hard to get drunk? Little brother, I'm a nobody a secondhand woman. Do you mind that I'm orphaned, divorced, and childless? Nanxing, come on, let's go home I'm not going back Come on, Professor Lin, lend a hand Are you jealous? Then go get her back! Actually, I think this Nanxing is well-matched with Lin Youqian believe it or not. I just don't believe you can give up on Nanxing. No car? Let go. I won't let go. What gives you the right to take Nanxing away? Just because I am her old man. She got divorced. Does that mean I can continue to pursue her? But Nanxing likes Fan Ye. Don't go. Uncle. I can't be dreaming, right? Last night wasn't a dream, right? Hmm. It can't be. I dreamed of that jerk Fan Jingmo. Does he know I was mentally unfaithful that's why he wants a divorce? I knew that fickle young master would divorce eventually. This is the 100 million you gave me back then. Now I'm returning the 100 million to you. We're even now. Young master, see you in the future. Stop! Live well. You're really strange. Since you insist on giving me this, I'll graciously accept it. After the divorce, what do you plan to do? There was once someone who treated me very well. She was also someone I liked. Uncle, I'm here to kneel with you. I was naive and clueless until he gave up on me. That's when I realized I liked him. So I'm going to pursue him. I wish you happiness. Young master. Although you're rumored to be ugly and disabled, I still hope you find peace and happiness. Come in. Uncle. Starting today, I will be your intern secretary. You aren't welcome here. Leave quickly. Uncle, life is short. We should enjoy it. So I'm going to pursue you. So I'm going to pursue him. The person she likes is me. Oh no. Last time, I knew I was wrong. I swear I'll go through the front door next time. Don't get carried away. I don't like you. You said you liked me back then. You can't go back on your word. Anyway, I'll stick to you. The coffee is cold. I'll get you a new cup. Nanxing hasn't been served yet. How can I give up? If it doesn't work, I'll be aggressive. I don't believe I can't win over that old man Fan Jingmo. I said, what's with this sour taste? It just won't go away. I said, what's with this sour taste? It just won't go away. Nan Xing, you woman, let go of my foot! Miss Gu. I don't have such a good temper. Just kidding with you. If you provoke me again, Watch out for me. I advise you to hurry up and get out of the Fan Group. Ah Mo will eventually drive you out. A house dog barking when the owner is away, what's that all about? You. Ah ! Nan Xing, why did you push me? Apologize! What? Pushed me and spilled coffee. Apologize! She fell down on her own. She spilled the coffee herself. Nan Xing, you made a mistake, you should apologize. You should apologize for the mistake. Fine. I'm sorry, Miss Gu. Miss Gu. I'm sorry, please forgive me. Ah Mo, help me! On my turf, hurting my fiancee, do you want to die? Gu Lin. Gu Lin is your fiancee. Yes. Ah Mo. It hurts so much. The Fan family and the Gu family are family friends. Gu Lin comes from a noble family. And you should know your place. All those confessions, the pursuit, they are all fake. At first, I deceived myself, thinking if I were nicer to you, you would reconcile with me. I never expected that I would be seen as just a plaything to you. Is the game fun? Is it interesting to deceive me ? Do you feel accomplished? You're right. I'm the one making mistakes. Ah Mo, I told you long ago, she's just here to seduce you. If you don't want the Gu family to go bankrupt, just play your role well. Ah Mo, Nan Xing, what's so good about you that makes Ah Mo love you so much? Mom, when Nan succeeded, was it as painful for you when he betrayed you? I'm so tired. Nan Xing. Professor Lin My first love Just ended like this. Nanxing, Nanxing Mr. Fan, be careful, abusing your wife is fun for a while, but chasing after her will be a living hell. Haven't you found Ghost Nine yet? Ghost Nine is very secretive. It'll probably take a while to find her. But I recently heard that she seems to have taken a job and is going to Hecheng. Hecheng? If even Ghost Nine can't cure your illness, I'm afraid no one can. Go to Hecheng. Sigh... Hello? Ghost Nine, your last client is investigating your whereabouts. What does Fan Jingmo want with me? To cure his illness. I'm not treating him. I'm going to Hecheng. Humph. That jerk played with my feelings. And he has a fiancee. I'm not saving him. 103, the presidential suite. How are we going to find her? According to the information, Ghost Nine is on the 8th floor of this hotel. Looks like we have to do a thorough search. Hello sir, do you need any services? Hey! Go after her! Professor Lin? Nanxing? What are you doing here? What's with the fake mustache? What is all over your face? I'm role-playing. Amo , the surveillance room says Ghost Nine is hiding in this room. This is the room. Let's go. Old man, do you have a screw loose? Believe it or not, I'll call security and have you thrown out. What are you doing with Lin Kanqian? Doing what? A man and a woman alone, sparks flying, what do you think we're doing? Professor Lin, I advise you not to ruin Mr. Fan's good thing. Are you just this lacking in self- respect and self-love? You have no right to judge me. Is your fiancee not enough for you that you have to find another woman? Nanxing! Fan Jingmo, I'm telling you, I will definitely get married before you do! You dare! What am I afraid of? Ah Mo. Are you still looking for Ghost Nine? Just go back. I owe you. To get revenge on me. You sacrificed your whole life. It's not worth it. Nan Xing, you're really disappointing. No way. What's wrong? Ghost Nine disappeared in Lin Youqian's room. But what about her clothes? I don't understand. Nan Xing is Ghost Nine. The recipe from the Ghost Doctor's Hall is priceless. You should take this. Ghost Nine is you. The ruthless hacker is also you. The bride of the Hidden Courtyard is you too. Nan Xing. How many things have you hidden from me? Fan Jingmo, why are you here? Just sitting here to share a ride. Driver, to the airport. Don't move around. If you keep moving, do you believe I'll take you down? Should I call you Nan Xing? Ghost Nine. Ruthless, or you, you. I know all your identities. Fan Jingmo, I won't treat you anymore. You're jealous. No, I'm not. So stubborn. Fan Jingmo, don't be so narcissistic. I, Nan Xing, have people chasing after me all the way to France. So I wouldn't settle for someone like you, a men with weak kidneys. That night you were drunk, you didn't say that. What do you mean? If you want me to help you with your illness, that's possible . All you have to do is kneel and beg me. Then I'll reluctantly agree. My illness is incurable. External injuries can affect the lungs, causing old ailments to resurface. Leading to internal organ problems. Why didn't you tell me ? Driver, stop the car. It's because of your illness that you purposely made me leave, right? Is that right? If you don't want to die, why look for Ghost Nine for treatment? I want to hear her say it . I will die. The one who is going to die is me. Why are you crying? I didn't expect you to be a better actor than me. I really thought you were deceiving my feelings. Going to find Gu Lin, huh ? Seeing you sad, I wanted to hold you, but I didn't dare. Uncle, I can actually save you. But I haven't tried. If I fail, dying by your side would be my regret. Uncle, then let's get married tomorrow. How about that? What? What if you die? Then I can inherit your fortune. And carry on the Ghost Doctor Hall. Benefit more people. Uncle, don't you have a bit of the spirit of medical contribution? Uncle, I will definitely use my lifetime skills to cure you. Uncle, if the surgery fails, I trust you. This surgery absolutely can't be performed. Grandpa, in three months, all my organs will fail. So just replace my body. I can't wait. I believe in Nan Xing. It's her. If even Ghost Nine can't cure me, then I'm really done for. Ghost Doctor Hall, Ghost Nine. Grandpa, she's still the young mistress of Hidden Courtyard. What? Grandpa, keep this secret for me until I survive. Uncle, I'm going to prepare for the surgery . Not good, oxygen levels are dropping. Heart rate is plummeting. Liuchuan, prepare the defibrillator. Heaven help us. Jing'er, you must wake up. Grandpa Fan, I'm sorry. The surgery failed. Ah. I told you , this surgery can't be done. Mo'er shouldn't have listened to you. It's all your fault. You owe me my grandson! Grandpa Fan, don't be impulsive. Grandpa, this isn't his fault. It's Ah Mo. The surgery's over, right? What happened? The virus is acutely infecting brain cells. Resulting in a severe coma. He could become a vegetable. Until brain death. You probably don't like me, right? Uncle, I' ll kneel with you. Uncle, I'm sorry. It's all my fault. As a doctor, I can't even save the one I love. From now on, I won't hold a scalpel again. Is there anyone in the world more unlucky than me? Divorced at such a young age, and I jinxed the man I loved to death. Nan Xing's sister, right? Yeah. Oh, so you're gonna stick up for her? My stepsister and I have never gotten along. Ten years ago, she pushed me off a cliff. If I could, I'd just punch her to death. So? But, I'm a possessive person. Only I can bully Nan Yaoyao. If anyone else bullies her. .. What do you want? I'm Amo's... I'll hit... Calling him Amo so intimately. Don't you know lovers' quarrels are especially fierce? Nan Yaoyao, put away your pathetic pride. When you bullied me, you were pretty proud, weren't you? So, seeing our family homeless and bullied, you're happy, aren't you? I thought I would be happy, but I'm not. This outcome is all your own doing. Nan Xing, you think you're any better? You think you're the only victim? The cold stares I received back then were hardly any less than yours. Just because my mom was a mistress so I deserved to be looked down upon? So I hate you. I was pretending to be stupid. And you, are really stupid. I've let go of the grudge with the Nan family. And I hope you won't punish yourself anymore. Sister, on behalf of of Mom and Dad, I apologize to you. I'm sorry. Nan Xing. Nan Xing, how could you... I've been dry heaving for over a week. Could I be pregnant? Nonsense, how is that possible? I haven't been with a man. How could I be pregnant? Do you think I'm an earthworm? Reproducing asexually? Who knows what happened between you and Mr. Fan. Absolutely impossible. What's wrong? I'm carrying a demon baby. Don't tell me you've become a player. Don 't even know who the father is. Counting the men I know... Fan Jingmo, Lin Youqian... Six... Seven, eight, nine... Was I ever drunk? That night, you and Professor Lin. .. Lin Youqian... That night at Charm... I was going to... Take you back to school... But Mr. Fan showed up... And snatched you away. You're saying Fan Jingmo? Yeah. Hmm. Could I be carrying... His child? Honey, I'm unwanted... Secondhand goods. Do you mind that I'm an orphan... Divorced, no kids? Poor child... Born without a father. Nanxing, the test results are back. The baby is indeed Amo's. When did this happen? I don't know. Liuchuan, are you serious? Nanxing, Nanxing! She's really pregnant with Mo'er's child? Heaven has eyes ! Heaven has eyes! I'll go to the hospital right now. Bring my granddaughter-in-law back. Good, good! Honey, wake up! We haven't gotten our marriage license yet. I don't want to. .. Have an illegitimate child. I don't want my child to be born... Without a father. Hahaha. Oh, great! Wonderful! The Fan family finally has an heir! Nanxing... After Fan Jingmo's death.. . My child... Will be the first in line to inherit... The entire Fan Group. And all of Fan Jingmo's... Assets. How about that, granddaughter-in-law? Enough? Grandpa Fan... He's in a vegetative state. He's not dead. Talking about this now... How to inherit the estate? Isn't it a bit much? Well, everything... ...needs to be planned in advance. I'm definitely ... ...going to raise this little guy... ...to be my Fan family's... ...heir. Unlike that Mo'er... ...having him inherit the Fan family.. . ...is worse than taking his life. Don't worry, Uncle. I will definitely raise... ...our child well. This year's financial profits... ...have doubled compared to last year. Looks like I'm pretty good at business. As expected, I'm a natural. Ouch, my stomach! Liuchuan! Quickly inform the board... ...the meeting is suspended. Wait until I give birth and then continue. Great -grandson! The Fan family has an heir! Grandpa Fan! You're making me dizzy! I'm going to hold my great-grandson! Mo'er! Our Fan family has an heir! I'm going to hold my great -grandson! Who's crying? I need to wake up! Why can't I move? Sis, I heard you had a baby. Mom and Dad specifically said they wanted to see you. Aunt Xiang. This meek and obedient look of yours. .. ...I'm really not used to it. Why don't you be arrogant and domineering again? You little rascal! Only you can talk. Nanxing... ...it's all Dad's fault. All these years. .. ...I've been letting you and your mother down. I'm sorry. Stop. I can't listen to sentimental talk. Nanxing! Ah Mo is awake. I thought I was cursed with widowhood. My child's father died before he was even born. Alright, don't cry. I'm still alive, aren't I? I told you I'm a genius. Although you were in a coma for eight months... ...you're no different from a normal person. As a disciple of the Ghost Doctor Hall... ... how could... ...I make a medical error? Master! Young Master, Young Madam, you're back! Xiao Die, what are you doing here? I've always been Young Master's maid. Ah, Uncle... . ...you poached the maids from Hidden Court... ...aren't you afraid that crippled Young Master... ...will retaliate against you? Look! Do I look like that crippled young master from Yinyuan? That one who's killed three wives in a row? That's you. Back then, the internal strife in the Fan family led to the deaths of three brides. It's my fault. So you are the master of Yinyuan. Why didn't you tell me ? And you still want a divorce? I wanted to be honest with you, but you were upset at the time, so that's why you ended our marriage. Nanxing, actually, I knew you were my wife. I was really happy. But I couldn't accompany you until old age, so I signed the divorce agreement. It says how our two kids came about, not knowing anything. I was drunk that night. I took you to Yinyuan. It was that night that we got together. After that night, so it was I see. Nanxing, let's get married again. Okay? Proposing like this is so dismissive. Nanxing, Where is Pantian? Why isn't she here yet? She's here. Nanxing, marry me. Okay? Even if I marry you ten times, I'm willing. To be able to marry you, is my great fortune in this life. Marrying you, I fear I've used up all my luck. In this life. Are you two here to take wedding photos? We want to remarry. Then let me get you two a couple of photos. Honey. You two, hurry and bring the kid back home. Grandpa. The future heir of the Fan family, I'll be counting on you to take care of him. You.