I want to speak to you this morning, afternoon and how to stop attracting wrong relationships. single people or people that are not married, but does send people to distract us, and I have this book, a while ago. This was my second book pastor for 14 years, being single myself and have relationship with the same person that did not end also some lessons that I wish you know I didn't this book. How I met my wife, how I knew she was a big issue with people which I'm going to share book in the chat right now. You can download it It's very simply written. A lot of Revelation who are like, I just don't have time to read it the books where I actually read the book to you. this is one of them. So if you're a single person get it on my store or just go to audible or go website. No strings attached. I just want you to doesn't come from this book. This book goes way share today with you, I meet a lot of people married. And then I meet a lot of people who keep They're hurting, they're suffering. Sometimes lonely. They want to get married but they seem to And I want to share with you these 10 thoughts people. I'm not as concerned for those people who My concern concern is for those who keep going a wrong decision. And sometimes they make a wrong they ignored what I'm about to share with you. trying to defeat you through this distraction. defeat you through a distraction of a wrong he can either disarm you or he can distract you. you by disarming you and sometimes he'll defeat you must understand is not only to guard against by causing us to doubt God's Word. Now how does we through lack of discernment perceive as God's Satan's bait, not God's blessing. Many people, comes into their life because they, they feel in but you know they're hot, but they're, man it just later, you're like man, that yes this person is they're set on, set on fire from hell. They're, Because of desperation, lack of discernment, we as God's blessing. Look at Proverbs 5:3-5, her mouth is smoother than oil.&quot; So you see relationship? Now this is not just referring to a mouth is smoother than oil. So we &quot;but at the end she is bitter as wormwood, sharp her steps lay hold of hell.&quot; So distraction of quickly it to your eyes as dripping honey. Oh this mouth is smoother, there's smooth talk. They got a there is this attraction that is there. But see distractions is the end, meaning 2 months later, there's no more honey. Wormwood, a two-edged don't need that. So Satan will try to defeat you disobey God's Word, or distract you by having you bait but you perceived it as God's blessing, you were distracted with the immediate feelings without paying attention to the rest of the things spiritual warfare. If you think that romance relationships don't have spiritual warfare in talk to people who are in relationships where the You'll realize, spiritual warfare, marriage can be on this earth. So as a single person, don't think your night sleep, in your thoughts and everything. lack discernment you're going to receive them as a at the end, meaning when all of the feelings fade, all of that fades and that will. That person is no They're wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. So deeper. Somebody dropped this in the chat, highlight and that is this. Don't go swimming if go swimming if you are bleeding. What I mean by relationships. Somebody put that in the chat as relationships. A person with an inferiority is a person that is bleeding. If you go swimming you become an immediate target. You become a healthy relationships because healthy people they are repulsed, they push away, they're needs a rehab not romance. This person needs not a relationship, like I would love to pray for relationship with them, why? They're, they're not, a doctor, not a mate right now. Not, not that none view of a relationship is this, it will make me make me new, it will change me. You're looking for a boyfriend. You need deliverance, you need to process. So one of the things that I've seen is person to make them whole. And at first because get showered with attention, you get showered with your mama maybe didn't give you, and you become this is so incredible, this is healing me, this much. And that is dangerous, because if a got into that relationship with a lot of holes, that just made you whole is going to expose every us romantic relationships to make us whole. We us whole. Your self-esteem should not be based should be based, it's usually based on the parents a Godly Community, the Word of God speaking life you're not bleeding when you're swimming. If is the recipe, go swimming when you're bleeding. experienced abuse, so you will quickly gravitate you. But that becomes a trap. It's a bait. Because you need to get healed. You know if you look &quot;Are you loosed from a wife? Do not seek a wife.&quot; rebound. Drop this in the chat. Paul taught people you don't jump into another relationship when you when you're still hurting. Why? Because you King Ahab of Israel had a very low self-esteem. the story of Naboth's vineyard. Naboth who and start feeling bad for himself. So guess murderous Jezebel who ruled over him when he was that happen? Because when you're not healthy, when self-esteem and I'm not talking about you walking I'm talking about godly, healthy self-esteem, sharks who hurt you because Jezebel is attracted myself Ahab. Jezebel is not attracted to Elijah. destroy, rule. So if you keep attracting what have I been putting out as a bait? Has while I am swimming? And if you are, pull breaks, the holy Scripture, submit yourself to a community you don't need a woman so you can feel fulfilled. it's my second book that I wrote, I spend a whole in my book, I talk about identity, why? Because attract unhealthy relationships, and people with make them whole. They don't realize relationships you're broken, not healed, insecure. Relationships who heals? Jesus. His name is the Healer. Romance a band-aid on you and you feel better, but it's Book of Proverbs? Smooth, oil dripping from her but at the end the Bible says that band-aid Ahabs who have low self-esteem, passive, poor somebody to fix them. And at first you get that but it just doesn't last. Jezebel preyed on Ahab's you never want the enemy to use bad relationships, relationship with God is strong, until your own healthy heart, healthy self-esteem, healthy sense bleeding insecurity everywhere you walk, okay. I say Satan will use by preying on people who are this Jezebel into your life. That's why Paul says, there, hold on, pause, ponder, get healed first, take some break. Love is patient. If you're patient, lust is not. Now the third thing that I spiritual warfare works like this. Satan will Word. Or Satan can cause you to be defeated by bait from Satan but you perceive it as a blessing you're looking at how smooth the lips are, and how but the end of that is death. We also have swimming. Meaning, when you have low self esteem at Ahab and Jezebel. You know Ahab was drawn was very insecure, very solemn, displeased, attracted? Jezebel. If you're bleeding you they will hurt you. So don't bleed if you go don't heal you. Singleness will not kill you. Take you've been through abuse, especially if you grew they did not give you the right affirmation. to all kinds of relationships who will quickly but with the left hand they'll take what your life Pay attention to the red flags early. Pay biggest red flag? Now of course the biggest red biggest red flag. If this person is not in Jesus, what do they believe about, they could believe That's why Paul says, you can marry whoever you in the chat, in the Lord. Not around the Lord. Oh, but they got baptized. Oh, but they're a church sign of being in the Lord. That's not always in the Lord? Are they in the Lord because they are join team Jesus. Or are they in the Lord because pay attention to the red signs right away, and the that there are times when a person comes to church I've heard so many testimonies like that. But for hoping that I will get him converted. It's not the first biggest thing is are they in the Lord? carefully. Are you praying for them to change change already. Drop this in the chat. Red flag, this mean? That means there are things in their you just been dating for a few months. Maybe chronic, terrible attitude that you're already because this is, this is huge. Abusive tendencies. you're like this is, this is wrong, and you're not married yet. That's a red flag. You should because Satan will send somebody your way to peace and letting you see the red flags early. If go blind and not see those red flags, or you don't your life. These flags were there, you just passed red light by going on the red light, you will In Proverbs 29:1 it says this. &quot;He who will suddenly be destroyed, and that without going into a relationship and there are red flags. times He sends people in your life that right away And people that you trust, people that love you, They don't see the infatuation that you have colors. They just see the facts. You're already a rebuke that is happening. Hey this might not good idea. But if you harden your neck and you're really, I mean look he's 6'2, look he's so buff. that's a red flag. But man he talks smooth. He That's a red flag. Your mentors and other people hey this is, this is not right. If you harden your you will suddenly be destroyed, and there will be to reap the benefits, excuse me, the consequences flag. It's a red flag warning. If you keep you're headed for, not distraction, you're headed early. If you're bleeding, don't go swimming. relationships. If you're praying for them to like you know punctuality or some other things, that's a red flag. Pay attention to that. I Drop this in the chat. Pay attention pay attention to that. If there's no peace, pay don't ignore that. If there are red flags, and I'm talking about there's just no peace and there's if you harden your neck when the red flags are from people you trust, you are headed not just for be destroyed because of those bad relationships. four. Set up healthy boundaries. If people do not have any standards with you. If they do not have any standards, and you sacrifice your standards in distraction. When they do not honor distraction. If you lose your standards when you in the chat. If you lose your standards when you person God sends into your life will help to That's why you need to have healthy standards. standards when it comes to your purity. Hey we're standards where the Bible says you know not to woman who is not married. But a lot of times we to kiss until I get married. I don't want to move God. We're not husband and wife, we're not going you can't find rent, but you're not going to live be merging our credit cards together, and nor am not going to be co-signing for your apartment. got to have, and I'm just speaking about common boundaries. They date somebody and then this girl goes and cos signs for this guy's apartment. the guy stops paying for the apartment and the Where are your boundaries? And this is how you violate your boundaries, the moment they push That tells you they don't have same standards. Jesus. They're not walking the walk. Because any boundaries. They don't have any borders in if they're not willing to step up their mine is slightly different but yours are so much which is our sanctification, that we should Thessalonians 4:3-6. Your boundaries are so much our own vessels in sanctification and honor, not know God. We should not take advantage of and Lord is the avenger of such. That boundary let's commit both of us to honor these boundaries. should have. One is that you don't get physical get emotionally super attached, especially with I and all of that stuff. Until you guys are engaged. hey babe. And they're not even sure if they spend the rest of their life with each other. with each other is the ring. It's the proposal. I'm pretty serious about this relationship. It super emotionally so deep because the problem super glue. You get so attached and if there is no and they're going to pull away, you're going to it's easier to fall into sin sexually if you are call me old fashioned. Call me all you want to one thing. Your emotions play a huge role on your and the person is not sure if they want to together, walking holding hands together, and out. So you're already getting taking steps to stuff. You posted everywhere online that this is doing is this, is you're lowering your boundaries. relationships with, the serious people will look serious. they're dating anything that moves. they healthy. again this is pastoral advice. I'm not some boundaries. in my personal thing I didn't girlfriend, Lana, until we were engaged. And if we hands until we were engaged because I did not is holding hands. Didn't want to get something my emotions and my physical connection should your emotions should be guarded and so should be goal, hey, we're going to have our physical driving this relationship. I'm not test driving And this sexual intimacy that we're going to have, with each other, spiritually, emotionally and in to cosign on each other's loans, credit cards no co-signing. Now if you want to bless the other fine. But make sure you invest as much into that in the chat. Invest as much in a relationship as For those people who are investing their heart lose and you're like, man I'm so heart broken, I Invest as much as you're willing to lose. That's until you're married because it's a super glue. that person pushes a bound just and says unless sent from hell. Send them back to where they came them to mess somebody else but you're not going to to be with somebody, that somebody is the devil we're like we're not going to cosign, we're not Now my wife did move into Tri- Cities, I think lived in the apartment that we were going to live up. But all of the merging of finances, merging I see people today cosign on trailers, trucks, going to get married. Dumb. Dumb. Unwise. You know because wise people don't do that. Wise people relationship and this person doesn't honor your and you don't have any boundaries, you're the red you become super self-righteous. I'm talking about yesterday to somebody and you know they're living so why aren't you guys married? Well you know to somebody to visit us and then we're going to in sin, you already have children. You're telling living together like husband and wife. You're fancy wedding for 14 years. I was like, and let's mature up. Where are the boundaries here. how could you sign up for that? As Christians we dropped this in the chat. Some boundaries. If they don't honor your boundaries, get out of because if they don't honor your boundaries today, tomorrow. Number five. You got to heal patterns. If you don't, you are going for the past hurt. So you got to heal from the where you got betrayed, if you've been in a in a relationship and you've been cheated on. took advantage of your trust. Maybe you have don't rush into a relationship. Like I but this contributes to it and I'm going to go one you go into the next. Drop this in the chat. You next. Before you go to the promised land, you have to leave the earth. Before a man should cleave The Bible has this principle, you cannot cleave exit. When you drag the past with you into the present, what becomes with this relationship and enjoy. This is a relationship that is an This relationship is just I'm just trying to get heal me. So it's a needy relationship, and sooner like they're being taken advantage of because did, being punished for what your dad did, being punished for everything. They're being expected to of what somebody else did. They're not allowed else did, and what begins to happen is this. We pain. We're being punished, penalized for somebody get healed, forgive those people, get professional you to walk the journey of health. Some people go into the next if you have not properly exited the future. So, other few things that I wanted to the boundaries. Let me just expound on that. core values. Define what you stand for and what are your core values? What do you stand for? So purity, that relates to my finances. But my values what I stand for is I stand for serving Jesus with when I was meeting my wife, my question wasn't part of a local church? But I'm like, do you willing to die for that? Are you willing to be Are you willing to to be killed for Jesus? Are Jesus? The other part was for me was very huge Because most likely the rest of my life is going church, I'm not going to sacrifice my family for local church for my family. No my family is going which is the local church. So for me, my value was to be given in full surrender to the mission of and say, you know what, I just want to be rich. you know wealthy and famous. My answer would be not my values. You want to drive a fancy car, live just not my value. Now if that ever happens to me, not my pursuit, why? Because my values and what I me that was non-negotiable is that I'm not moving This is where I have built my ministry. This is this is where God called me. So the person that Remember when Abraham told his oldest servant, he that's Abraham's oldest son. He said that woman don't take Isaac there. That was a core value. So you are in a place where you're serving God but a ministry, you have to be willing to follow. deeply planted, and you have such an incredible, going to follow you in regards to where you live. because maybe of the ministry and that is okay. was doing, God was doing through Mary and Joseph that Joseph was submitted to Mary. No, this simply came alongside because it was very valuable. Mary see see what I'm saying. She couldn't just give I want to keep Joseph, let me go to Planned what God is doing. I'm not going to stop that just at first like, man Vlad but that's kind of harsh. doing in your life, where He's taking you. So it's then what you stand for. There are certain things, negotiable, but there are certain things are your life and they violate those values that are they might not be God's blessing. They might be they might be a distraction. So not only I value value my boundaries when it comes to my finances. personal, emotional, spiritual, mental health. I a chica, I don't need an incredible hulk so that comfortable by myself. I want to be married, but I to be healed. I don't need to be in love so I can to a relationship to be more happy, but I'm happy married, but I'm pretty happy myself right now. you're not going to be happy when you get is like a mirror. It will just show more of what can choose to be happy. So stop attracting wrong to distract you. By recognizing when you have low you're bleeding and swimming, you attract sharks. and Ahab is attracted to to Jezebel. When inferiority complex and everything. They tend said you got to exit the past traumas, hurts and also have mentioned if somebody comes into your do not honor them, that's a distraction. If you You have to have boundaries. If you have red flags praying for them to change. Like we're not talking sweat the small things, but we're talking about They're not in the Lord. They're around the Lord the enemy that you need to avoid. Now let's just and loneliness. Trust in God's timing. Drop this trust in God's timing. You are more likely to and desperate. Can I say this again? You're emotionally needy and desperate. Can somebody drop Because they're emotionally needy and desperate. discernment. So that's where the Bible says love patient. True love waits on God's timing. fear of missing out, man by biological clock. I'm just marry anything that's out there. That blurs and happy than to be married and miserable. Don't of love, but love is kind and love is patient. If doesn't love you, meaning they're not kind to you're getting into lust. So avoid desperation and in, I do want to highlight, I was a youth pastor a book called &quot;Single, Ready To Mingle.&quot; Now this books I actually read it on Audible myself for and you're like you know what, this is helpful. I get this book and start listening to it. Or just And just take a week, a month, educate yourself on that are going to not only blow your mind, but are be a great blessing to you. Eighth thing I want If you cannot say no to something you don't you. So if you cannot say no to something you you. Drop this in the chat. If you cannot say the enemy will distract you. I mentioned if you're clouded discernment. We mentioned already, if you you're constantly changing them, the enemy can the Scripture. If you haven't gotten over your ex can trap you. If you don't have any standards the enemy can trap you. If you're already praying to change because of red flags, the enemy probably relationships to make you whole, healed and cure going to distract you. So learn to say no when you Learn to draw the line and say hey, we need This is not about super, duper being spiritual. man is the lamp of the Lord. How God sometimes hearts and minds. Now sometimes is just what we it goes away. When you don't have peace about you take some time to fast and pray, you surround and you sit and you listen to the Lord. Now when some people don't know but actually I mention broke up with my wife the next day. I freaked out. going to mention here but you can read it in the a 21-day fasting. I didn't do all 21 days. I think interesting peace that was surprising, and just and a half later I reached out again, we started me because she was afraid that I'm going to quit city, so it was a long distance relationship, I went there quite a few times and then shortly is just my, my thing. I'm not saying I'm right dating. I think a lot of long dating is just a after we've been talking, I knew already this is with, you know why wait? So I proposed, and then together was I think about from the day that we done it again I would have done it way faster. But She knew. We both felt right, both of our parents, just, just it felt right and it wasn't just And so at first I did freak out, and I called it wasn't necessarily just getting to know you know, dreams and Inspirations? I kind of went the rough I asked her everything about her future, and I thing to do, but it definitely helped me you know for her to get to the bottom of things. And so it probably I wouldn't do that again, but I'm not person that I'm going to be with for the rest of out, the answers that I heard from her. The next versus God's peace, or tension or red flags. I resumed that relationship a month and a half we celebrated 14 years and honestly she's a a great blessing to her life and I couldn't have again. So I do know there's a difference between intrusive thoughts. It just it doesn't give you panic could be just a red flag. But sometimes you you give three weeks, two weeks. You let the kind of look at all the facts again. You look at based on God's peace. Now I am not one of those God to tell you, thus says the Lord, this is your In my &quot;Single, Ready To Mingle&quot; book, I spend the thing that God plays lottery, and you have only and you have to hear God say, this is the right approach to how people, especially men need to all the time. And so I have a whole chapter that present, He gives us peace, He gives the counsel life. And sometimes people have a Word from God, against that, but most of us will not get that. the morning to eat your breakfast and go use a that you have to follow and so is with this. God's the opposite gender and they are in the Lord. So preferences. All other things are secondary you need to consider with the Holy Spirit, and boundaries as the Lord revealed them to the two requirements in the Bible for marriage the Lord. So those are two requirements. So oh but I love them. Uh no. It's Adam and Eve, one requirement. The second requirement is they not just in the church, in the Lord. Because there the Lord, you know. Church is a hospital and not way. So some people in the church are pretty sick, and they're not responding to treatment really oh but they're in the church. You know Satan comes to date Satan, and so they need to be in the Lord. you is that learn to say no when you don't have that you don't have peace about it. The other where Satan can trick us is if we don't listen to this in the chat. Satan can trick you if you don't I found this to be a huge deal breaker and huge people are rebellious, and this is how rebellious with us. If somebody disagrees slightly with we switch spiritual fathers and that is not that. We all have blind spots, all of us. Like if right? So you have to turn your head like this in car that kind of gives you a little light, or some what is happening in your blind spot. Or you have and say hey, there is a car here, don't turn. We you have blind spots. You're blind to the person's in their life. You, you're blind to them, why? that they're able ever to hurt you. You don't want you like they cheated on like six other people in the fact that there's a potential of them a week ago. You don't want to believe the fact porn because they've been addicted to porn for the You know I remember counseling this person who was to porn. It was obvious because his social media young lady was like, oh but he's changing. I was before? Well you know, I'm praying for him. I'm she was so insecure in herself. She didn't believe guy liked her, and he was drawn to the fact that and he took advantage of her. He took her dumped her. And so very, very devastating end. because we're not listening to anybody else's decisions. And we think we don't have blind think our feelings are the truest indicators of have nothing to do with blurring the facts about our mentors, our spiritual guides that we have just don't want us to have happiness. They you us back. When in reality sometimes those people there's a semi-truck in there. You're about to you don't want me to be happy. And then we get So just acknowledge the fact when you're in love to rely on the Holy Spirit and people you trust tell you things that you might not like to hear, grace. And they'll point to your blind spots. If Don't silence them, don't muzzle them. Don't kick there are some people, they're critics. They different. But we have people that love us, father you kind of want to, you know sometimes I have you know sometimes meet for coffee and say kind of have red flags. I'm not certain. And I throw it out. Meaning don't go further if enough that you're voicing them out to me, in the don't have peace. An absence of peace is a huge Just hang in there a little bit longer. Wait, Let me pray for you and let's go from there. Then like you know what, more stuff came out. I'm so things just got sorted out and they're proceeding and they're in such a better place. Lean into wise counsel. And the last thing I want to highlight, in the pursuit of someone else instead of growing yourself in pursuit of someone else instead say one of the dangerous signs that the enemy yourself in that relation relationship. Yes to We don't lose our sense of identity, our gifts, yourself to be with that person, you might be in lose yourself is in your relationship with Jesus different, better and new. We deny ourselves in power to bring out the best of Him in us. So lost person. No, we were lost before Jesus. you go into a dating relationship and the person so you don't flourish as a person, you fail It's not about you, or everything is about us. your gifts. All of that is gone, all of that has lost because they're either insecure about you about themselves they need you to build them up, them up, build them up. They don't care about you're not an image of God. They want to make you not worth it. It's a trap. Godly relationships, we in Jesus. And when we pursue someone we don't ever stop growing as an individual. The other person try to cancel who we are. Can somebody say, amen. Not cancel who you are. If they cancel who you says, deny yourself for Me. And you know why Jesus says deny yourself for me, He's saying, because I My Spirit will live in you. Your boyfriend die for you. Your girlfriend cannot do that. They relationship, you're lost. That relationship was a you. It doesn't cancel you, amen. I believe you in the chat. I do want to highlight one more time, get this book &quot;Single, Ready To Mingle.&quot; Or go to you a signed copy tomorrow or today. Or go to my My goal is for you to grow in knowledge of God's I would love to but I just have so much things to it. Go to Audible and you can actually get the of weird. I don't do that anymore, but my first it will, it will bless you. My voice is a little and I don't get all fired up and so amen. Let's the people that are single. If you are single and ready to mingle? if you are single and ready to Maybe you are not married, so just drop number one single ready to mingle or if you are unmarried. married or don't desire to be married. Just drop you. I would like to ask the Holy Spirit to number want to ask the the Lord to give you discernment right now that the dear Holy Spirit will guide where everything I talked about, I described a to have a very hard decision facing you in the exit that relationship and get healed, get whole right person. Don't rush. God's grace is on your of life is to serve Jesus. It's a great blessing His assignment being single. Paul fulfilled his don't belittle your season right now and postpone you get married. Take advantage of this season. It distractions. Focus on God. Let's pray. Dear every person that is watching this, re-watching down the road. I pray for all of my single ladies, an exciting season that they are in, but it's also pray that they will not be desperate because when pray for those that are very insecure that nobody in the love of Jesus, and they will find their relationship to find love, but they go into a don't have boundaries. Would you help them to have in their finances. I pray for those right now who are at stake. In the name of Jesus Christ, come wise counsel. Holy Spirit I pray that You will help them to know that you are not in that. Help be whole in You. Help their life to reflect months that you begin to bring right people into happen so naturally as they focus their eyes on Let pleasant surprises come along the way where person at the church gathering, a picnic, or they Holy Spirit guide them. Father send your angels Your way and we trust in Your timing. We trust in Enough to spot the fake. Give them discernment are not for them, things that are demonic baits. for those that are already in a relationship and they lost their relationship with You. And even They felt so, so guilty, convicted, condemned. give them a strategy. Lord, make it clear that moms that are believing for marriage. Would love them but love their children. Would you Mary but embrace Jesus the Son that wasn't his in the name of Jesus. We trust in You, may their relationships be full of your grace and the chat. If you believe in that prayer, if this these we offer online for free, in book formats, dating without fornicating, on how to break up, you know if he's the one or she's the one. All of a blessing to you, could I in return invite you to or partnering monthly. We also do humanitarian Aid print books and send them overseas and distribute able to do that because of your help. So if this blessing, if what we do connects with your one-time gift or become a partner. And I believe and helping to reach many people for Jesus. Thank