What is your English level? Beginner, Today we're going to have an English level Hello, guys! I'm Kate and in this lesson we are There will be 3 parts - Beginner, Intermediate each part of the test. I show you the to think about the answer. You can pause I'm going to explain the grammar and vocabulary The first ten questions are for the to count the number of correct answers you have. 1 Which sentence is correct? B) Which school are you go to? The correct option is A) When we ask a question in we use the auxiliary verb DO + subject + base 2 Which sentence is correct? B) These house has five bedrooms. The correct option is A) We have demonstrative pronouns: This and that are used for singular Those and these are used for plural In this sentence we have 1 house, 3 Which sentence is correct? B) It often snows in winter The correct option is B) It often snows in winter. We should use the Present Simple tense. The or a regular action. With 'IT' we add an -s to 4 Which sentence is correct? B) There are some clouds in the sky. The correct option is B) There The word &quot;clouds&quot; is a plural noun, meaning than one thing, we use &quot;are&quot; instead of 5 Which sentence is correct? B) Did you found your keys yet? The correct option is C) Use the present perfect tense to in the past that explains or affects the we use have or has plus the past participle of participle. The word YET shows us up to the current point in time, but 6 Which sentence is correct? he jumped over the drain. he jumped over the drain. when he jumped over the drain. hurt his foot when he jumped over the drain. adding -ed to the verb. But there are The simple past form of these verbs does not verbs. The simple past tense of some beat beat burst burst hit hit hurt hurt put put read read (spelling doesn't For example, in the present simple door. I often put some sugar in my we say - He shut the door. I put some sugar 7 Which sentence is correct? B) The books fell off the shelf The correct option is B) Some prepositions tell us about position or You might fall off a bike. You might fall off the We can also say fall from. The man fell off 8 Which sentence is correct? B) He don't get to the station in time. The correct option is A) He We use do not, does not and did not to make other happened in the past, we use didn't + base form 9 Which sentence is correct? B) She speaks clear and correctly. The correct option is C) She Clearly and correctly are adverbs of manner. It tells you about an action, or the way They laughed loudly. The parcel An adjective usually describes Her voice is clear. But she speaks 10 Which sentence is correct? B) I didn't see nobody in the park. The correct option is A) I When we want to say &quot;no one&quot; in a sentence We can't use two negative words in the same times. If we have don't, aren't, isn't, didn't, Look at this example. We can say - There isn't anything left in the fridge. When Great job, guys! Now we have finished all many correct answers do you have? If you have higher than beginner, you should go ahead And if you have less than eight correct not bad. Just keep practicing and you Welcome to the Intermediate Section. 1 Which sentence is correct? B) I was walking home when I met him. The correct option is B) I was In this sentence we use the Past Continuous middle of doing it at a certain time. The action 2 Which sentence is correct? B) These are nice jeans. The correct option is B) These are nice jeans. that has two parts. For example, trousers (two These words are plural, so they take a Although it is one thing, it is plural. for example - This is a nice pair of jeans. We 3 Which sentence is correct? B) Did you hear anything from Bob recently? The correct option is A) Have you In this sentence we use the Present Perfect that continues from the past until now, we use the Here, we are talking about a period in the last few days, so 4 Which sentence is correct? A) He has been painting his bedroom. C) He has painted his bedroom. has been painting his bedroom. perfect continuous tense. We are thinking of the finished or not. In this example, the activity Now look at this example - He has painted is green. He has painted his bedroom. 'has the important thing is that something a completed action. We are thinking about the not the activity itself. When we got home last night, we found A) had broken C) have broken In this sentence we use the Past Perfect tense had + past participle (gone/seen/finished etc.). in the past: We got home last night. This if we want to talk about things that past perfect (had ...): When we got home last night, 6 Your friend is going to a A) What will you wearing? C) What do you wear? is B) What are you going to wear? we use the structure 'to be going to'. already decided to do it. I'm going to wear a 7. Fill in the blank. Three hours from now, the finished. Everyone ___________. B) will have gone home The correct option is B) will have gone I will have done something MEANS it will For example: Jenna always leaves for work at 7.30 in the morning. She won't be at home at 8. Sarah has quite a good job. A) She has a very good job C) Her job is not good enough job is good, but not the best but more than 'a little'. In this sentence but not the best'. Probably there quite good. It is pretty good. The words 9. Which sentence is correct? time in the same house. the same house for a long time. The correct option is B) They have The correct word order is Subject In this sentence They - is a then we have a place - in the same house and It's important to know how to make sentences in I recommend that you watch my grammar 10. Which sentence is correct? B) Sorry, I sent this email on mistake The correct option is C - by mistake. by mistake / by accident / by chance. - I didn't do it on purpose. I did it by mistake. let me know how many correct answers do eight correct answers, then your level amazing! Keep going with the rest of the Advanced move on to the advanced section. In this part so get ready. Let's start with the first question. 1. Choose the correct answer There are no it's difficult to get there. A) Unless you have a car, B) Providing you have a car, C) As long as you have a car, The correct option is A. Unless you have a car, it's difficult to get there. Unless it's difficult to get there. except if you have a car. Or You can 2 Which sentence is correct? B) The thief admitted to have taken the money. The correct option is A) The The following verbs always need a avoid, consider, enjoy, escape, finish, 3 Which sentence is correct? A) Alex deserves receiving B) Alex deserves to receive C) Alex deserves to have received The correct option is B) Alex deserves The verb 'deserve' needs the infinitive We can also use a noun - Alex deserves the to receive the award for his hard work. infinitive (to + base form of the verb) expect, fail, hesitate, hope, 4 Which option is correct? they _________ B) go on strike The correct option is B) go on strike. they go on strike, or refuse to 5. Which sentence is correct? until I find my dream apartment. I find my dream apartment. studio until I find my dream apartment. small studio until I find my dream apartment. situations (things that I'm renting a small studio In this sentence, the speaker is in a while looking for a more permanent 6. Replace the bolded phrase with a synonym. to hear more about your perspective on them. B) I'm informed about The correct answer is B) I'm informed about aware of something, that means you 7. Choose the correct answer. when the car suddenly stopped B) were driving The correct option is A) had been driving that went on before a particular past time we should use the PAST Perfect Continuous. something that was in progress recently 8. Fill in the blank with the correct word. complete darkness. B) went down The correct option is C - went off. it turns off and stops working. the ball, ____________ B) you are very attentive The correct answer is B. You are very the ball' is an idiom which means to stay I have an amazing lesson on idioms, I'll leave a 10. Which sentence is correct? she would have arrived before the storm. she would have arrived before the storm. she would arrive before the storm. had taken the earlier flight, she Here we have an example of a third conditional situation that did not happen and its possible typically follows the pattern: &quot;If + past It describes a hypothetical situation Well done! This is the end of an Advanced in the Advanced section, then your I hope you enjoyed this lesson. Don't forget answers you've had in the comments below.