Hey there guys, Paul here from theengineeringmindset.com. In this video we're going their uses, and how they work Coming up, first of all between alternating and direct current. Then we'll look at the and where they are used. And we'll move on and have of how they work. And finally we'll look pulse width modulation example. Guys, I just want to take a our sponsor for today's video. If you find inverters interesting, then you'll definitely want to check out the the Danfoss Optyma Plus The Optyma Plus inverter to increase efficiency, and meet F-Gas and Ecodesign requirements. And it's a great fit for restaurants, et cetera. You can find out more at optymaplusinverter.danfoss.com. So what is an inverter? Well let's start at the So you probably know of electrical power in use. Which are direct current, or DC for short. Which is supplied by batteries, Now this type of power is goods with circuit boards et cetera. The other type of power is Now this is supplied from the and this will typically be used Both of these types of power have their uses and limitations. So we'll often need to to maximize their use. An inverter is a device between direct current, DC, If you use an oscilloscope to look at the signal of these two types of power, you will see that direct voltage and continues in a straight line. That's because it's current flows directly in only one direction, which is why it's called direct current. Think of it a bit like a river or a canal. It's always at it's peak, and it flows in just one direction. If you looked at alternating current you'll see a wave like pattern, where the voltage alternates in both the positive half, and then through to the This is because the current It's a bit like the tide of the ocean, where it reaches it's maximum hight tide, and then transitions through And in-between, the current of the sea water So an inverter simply DC to alternating current, AC. And this is a very useful invention. You can also convert from and it's common to find both And we'll actually look at If you want to learn more then start from the basics, with our previous video There's a link on the screen now, and there's also a link in So where are inverters used. Well a common, fairly simple is within solar panels, As these generate DC power, but the appliances in your So this needs to be converted You can also buy portable which allow you to use the cars battery, to power small household appliances. A slightly more complex way they are used, is when integrated into of variable speed drives, to control the speed, the torque, and the direction of AC motors, in order achieve very precise You'll find these on fans, and basically any equipment which rotates. They are used in all industries, but extensively within HVAC systems, for industrial and commercial properties. In this application the inverter is coupled with a rectifier, and the AC power which comes in, is converted to DC, and then back to AC. But the controllers will of the sine wave pattern. And by manipulating this, we can precisely control And when you join this to a then you can precisely control This is partly how the Danfoss Optyma Plus It has a very clever control loop which is measuring the cooling load, and then changes the speed of the motor, which changes the speed and that increases or to match the load. Which results in precise as well as energy savings. So, how do they work? Well let's consider a simplified circuit, where the DC source is being represented by the lamp. To convert the DC to the AC We will pair the switches together, so that switches two and three, only open when one and This will allow us to force the current through the AC load, in an alternating direction, so that the lamp will experience even though it's from a DC source. So let's give that a try. If we leave switches two and three closed, and then open switches one and four, this will cause the the right-hand side of the lamp. If we then close switches one and four, and open switch two and three, this will force the current to flow through the left-hand side of the lamp. So you can see that there that the lamp experiences The lamp will not see this as the sudden switching will The sharp corners on the to electrical equipment. So we need a way to The switching is also far You can see that the in the power socket of your home. This will be supplied at 50 or 60 Hertz, depending on where in the world you are. This means that the current needs to reverse direction So to achieve this we'll use some special such as diodes, IGBTs MOSFETs et cetera. Now if you don't know how don't worry about that for now, we'll cover this is another For now, just understand the circuits, and how the current is controlled. Let's look at a three-phase You can see the circuit has and to convert the direct there are bunch of these IGBTs which are connected to a controller. The controller will send telling it when to open and close. These IGBTs are paired together. So when the circuit is powered up you can see that the controller is switching pairs of IGBTs, to allow current to pass through them for a set amount of time. So that the motor will experience In this example the alternating So this is used to power the motor. But how is it used to control the speed? Well, if we take a we'll see that they in a pulsating manner, This is known as pulse width modulation. What's happening is the into multiple smaller segments, and the controller tells the IGBTs, how long to close for during each segment. I'm showing how this for one phase of the three-phase circuit, just to keep it as simple as possible. By opening and closing the switches of varying lengths of time, during each segment, of each cycle, the IGBTs can allow to flow through the The result of this, is that the average will result in a sine wave pattern The more segments the the smother the sine wave will be, and the closer it will So the motor will see the average value, and will therefore experience a sine wave alternating current. The controller can then change the amount of time the IGTs are open, to increase or decrease the to control the motor's And with a few additional control loops, it can be used to exactly to provide precise control of a system and unlock energy savings. Okay that's it for today. Before I go, I just want to thank Danfoss one last time for sponsoring this video. Don't forget to check out by heading over to Thanks for watching, I hope this has helped you If you have then please Don't forget to check out our Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, as well as our website Once again, thanks for watching.