My name is Kate Rainwater. I grew up as sort of a theater kid, community theaters I'll be a creative person and in my adult and live kind of all over the country Met my husband doing theater. also did some professional baking. And so that's one of my other hobbies. You know, we we both really enjoy, being on stage together And then recently, moved to Omaha. Looking back now, I'm realizing there were symptoms that I. I didn't ignore, but that I guess I didn't So, you know, since probably about six years ago I would spot during or after sex, and I always just attributed it to having an unreliable, cycle. You know, I never really knew it was. It was always kind of strange. Sometimes it was three weeks, Sometimes there was random and it never hurt, so I just Looking back now, I know it probably was, I had that, that I paid attention to were pains in my abdomen. And they were really sort of like, So initially, my first trip to the doctor for gall bladder because that's that's I was having pains We just moved here, like, I hadn't established a primary care so I thought, well, let's Do that. Tell them about the pains I'm having he immediately was like, My boss, who has a background in emergency yeah, absolutely. Gall bladder 100%. So they referred me to a surgeon, and he was the first person that, and giving him the rundown of all of my symptoms, said, there's also a couple of things in there And I'd like to figure out So he had scheduled a CT. but we had to wait I wasn't going to be able to get that done On the 19th of March. or, I'm sorry, the 19th of February. And, by I think it was like February 13th or 14th, I was in the emergency room with severe pain doubling over, just it was awful. so they ended up doing the CT then, rather than waiting for insurance And they didn't but in the bottom corner they saw a shadow and thought, Maybe it's just on the machine. Maybe we need to get it looked at. But let's do an ultrasound in that area And so then they ordered the ultrasound I, just kind of waiting around for, They did the ultrasound was, you know, jovial and kind And then she got very, very quiet, But I work in healthcare, And she stopped talking. And then, afterwards said, I'm just going to go give your results I'll be right back and. Within two minutes, there was, the doctor on call, The doctor on call was in my room a mass, and, It could be a million things. But of course, you know, everybody's and about ten minutes after that, there was a gynecologist, in my room, and she was saying the same thing, to make an appointment within the next, like 48 hours, so that possibly do a biopsy so they could make sure they She had had a chance to look at the ultrasound And I'm a person who, whether it's good or bad, I have about something, the the easier So I just told her up front, like, too much, I just need information. And I asked her point blank, and looking at my pictures, do you think that this is. And she didn't She said, I do, yes. And I'm so sorry. After my meeting with her, and she did take a couple biopsies my cervix and we thought, just based on the fact right before moving to Omaha. But I did the, you know, the treatment you know, they're like, in almost all cases, like most cases, So that was also another reason like a primary care physician was to just And this all happened So, yeah. So she did an exam, but then also set me up for a biopsy. the, the mass, I had two masses. There was one just appeared to sort of It was very large. It was pushing my uterus they couldn't really It was completely covering my left ovary They couldn't get to my ovary. So they did a biopsy of that And then I also had that was further back. And it was in amongst my lymph nodes. And it was actually touching, the iliac veins that basically control the operation of, you know, your left leg It was pushing on those veins as well. So both tumors were large enough to do those biopsies if they were benign, and snipped them in a couple of pieces But because they were both malignant, then that's where the and make sure that, you know, we weren't hurting the surrounding so that's But initially because the tumors, malignant, they just assumed, well, it must be So it must have just metastasized It wasn't until they did and then they got the biopsies back Then it turns out they were benign. So then they did and they were benign. So at that point, We decided not to do radiation because of the location of the tumors, There the radiation at the tumors without the real possibility and maybe I wouldn't be able that I would lose the use of my left You know, if they damage those iliac, it could have damaged, like, the bladder and kidney and, you know, But the tumors were literally pushing So we did chemotherapy first. But then at that point, I think I was, it was my second round of chemo and they changed my diagnosis but because my, the main the tumor upfront was completely covering they couldn't take a biopsy, So we were just presuming that was it. Initially, because it was a squamous cell carcinoma. And squamous tumors account for less than 1% of all ovarian cancers. There's so few documented worldwide, I believe. So the chances of it being that even go there until all of the biopsies So that was scary to you have cancer, that she has only treated And so she started reaching out to the that specializes in rare she was talking to tumor boards I mean, she just went really above the best way to treat me and to make sure that I would come out of it to plan for treatment. because we couldn't safely and to see how the tumors and hopefully they would shrink enough that the surgeons could So that was really diagnosis, the tumors were so big, it was not going to be safe for me at all They were just taking up too much space, that they were touching, so it was just kind of So we did the first round of chemo a week later, I had a rash show up, and I ended up in the emergency room that night. they didn't really know what was going and some anti-itch stuff, And, sent me home. And it was a smaller hospital, at now. but it was just a smaller hospital That's only a couple of blocks So by the next afternoon, because I was covered head to toe it was it was really, really bad. And so I sent a photo and she told me to go at the main Methodist Immediately. And so I got there. They worked really, really quickly. and they admitted me and doctor after doctor and nurse coming in and saying like, wow, This is the worst chemo But which for myself and my husband But, within 24 hours, you could tell that it was starting to go away I still look terrible. It took a fall, five days in the hospital go away enough But I'd say it stuck around a little bit and I was still on steroids following until my next chemo treatments. So then when I went in for my second chemo treatment, they really had no choice know what chemo drug caused it. so they had no choice immunotherapy that I had qualified for. and they gave me the same chemo drugs They just did it one by one, And that was really scary. But it was the only way that they could figure out because the only other option and that was not an option So they gave me, the drug that's called paclitaxel And I didn't even get like 3 or 4 minutes in before I noticed a bump on my arm And I called the nurse in They gave me and then they ended up having to do a super, super low dose that if they had continued to that dose, nine hours But, they were able So every half hour they would start, by a little bit more and a little bit but I was in the, cancer center that day for, I think, about 9.5 hours So after that I was still on steroids. And so then the concern became the other if you're on steroids too much, you know, totally apart from everything that the cancer is doing. So the goal then became like, How do we get you off of these steroids? my glucose numbers were through the roof, and start on insulin So we just added that were, you know, coming up and then through doing that, one diabetes and that I had been so now I have cancer They are having trouble I want insulin, and I have a lifelong that about a week later, autoimmune disorder. So it was just and it was it was hard. Like it was really, really difficult to believe that there was still a light You know, it just it felt like it felt like God was really testing me and was like, okay, and we're going to see how strong you are And so thank God for my husband, who just sat by my side and cooked for me I literally had a little bell and he'd come right in and ask what Other times it was a sandwich or a snack, But having that support system, I could have gotten through all of that So after the third, we did an MRI to see, you know, what size, and how all of my organs and my tumors had shrunk by 50%, which I think was somewhat of a surprise, like, obviously and the nurses and everybody So we actually so well to the chemo, you know, in size, and they're still touching So let's do a few more rounds of chemo. Now that we've kind of figured out and see if we can get them to shrink So we did two more rounds of chemo and then did another, scan, and they had shrunk by another 25%. So at that point, my oncologist spoke just because of the location She had to make sure and a vascular surgeon as well just in case, you know, If they were fuzed together, which you know, the tumors can fuze to organs and so she had all that lined up So I had surgery three weeks ago today. I went in for the surgery and the, my oncologist had told my husband that they should plan for about six hours She was going to try to do everything Just sort of spread out And she got in there and got the tumors, including fallopian tubes and ovaries. You know, cervix, She wasn't really sure exactly what organs were concerned, beyond just what So luckily they all looked good. and my blood tests were good on them, I met with my, ecologist, and, you know, She told me that everything is looked pink and healthy. And the pathologist said They tested everything, the tumors themselves. The plan was to send them off so that we could figure out once it was, in fact ovarian or something else Unfortunately, But the good news is they're not able They weren't even live tissue They were just dead, So, the good news is that from basically that all results in me As of yesterday. I still, I'm just obviously, you know, You know, cancer is enough. But dealing with everything else it just felt like So, yeah, we had talked about like, okay, Do we need to do the two rounds of chemo And ultimately we decided, yes, because there's always that chance little cells in there that I'm not able to test, around, you know, where all of that stuff what we're not doing, though, is the vaccine. So we are basically paring down I really want to be able to continue So what we've decided to do which was sort of the workhorse chemo to have any reaction to at all, you know, being lethargic, after chemo treatments and maybe but it didn't really seem to affect me And then we'll also do So I start that again So, Monday and then three weeks after that I will do And that again will just be the cisplatin And I'll get to ring the bell, And then moving forward after that, as long as my body these next two rounds of chemo, so that my immune system And it's to my understanding, something that I can do to really just ensure that the cancer does You have to allow yourself I think I'm kind of lucky that is finally coming to the forefront, so those resources are there like they haven't been ever before the cancer center where I get treatment actually lined me up with a therapist. and, you know, they're they're a part of the cancer center team, so they're used to talking to people who have all different kinds of cancer who has cancer, that they're able to outline, you know, It really feels like it's based on who I am. You know, I'm I'm not I'm not a type I wouldn't say, but I definitely like I'm a planner for sure, and love me attention to detail So when something like this happens and nothing you did and all you can really do healthy and, you know, hope Just. Yeah, I mean, the best piece of advice feel the feelings because you need to, Cancer is a big deal. So surrounding yourself who don't try to, Like that has its time and its place. But in this situation, there are days you know, today is going to be And that's okay. As long as I let myself have that day and understand that tomorrow is a new day, and tomorrow doesn't have to be that way. I just married my husband three years ago and it's a second marriage for both of us, and I don't know how to explain that. It just it feels so different than any relationship And I know he would say And we've been together for nine years. That's just not enough, you know? And we have two girls. they just started college. They're both, and I want to see them what happens in their careers and, So I just I'm not even 40 yet. I'm not done. So the thought of, I mean, it it was so hard to get through. But giving up never, Not an option. Life is just worth it. The advice would be listen to your body. I can't help you know, during intercourse years ago. As a sign of something, or if those couple of periods that I had the cramping was so severe, This must just be a really rough month. Would they have caught it sooner? Would it have been so bad? So I think as women we are so often taught to just, you grin and bear it and women are We are so strong. But it's also okay to not be. And it's okay to admit So go to your doctor, get the test done. And if you are like me you were too old to get the HPV vaccine when it came out, they don't typically test for them during your annual screening. And I've had I didn't know that. I had no idea. The only reason they test for that time is if your results from your pap smear come back abnormal, So ask every year to have that done. And even though they tell you, you can, Now don't do that. You're worth so much more. Go every year. It's uncomfortable, but it's a half hour of being