But tonight, we're delighted to have Kristoffer Zetterstrand, whose paintings and works can be seen in a little game called Minecraft that you might have heard of. Kristoffer is a visual artist and painter whose works are often influenced by both traditional art history, pixelated old-school computer graphics, and 3D worlds. He studied at Royal University College of Fine Arts in Stockholm, Sweden, and his paintings are often based on virtual still lifes and scenography sculpted in 3D software. For example, his debut exhibition in 2002 consisted of paintings based on the online computer game Counter-Strike. Kristoffer truly represents the intersection of art and video games, so please help me welcome him to the podium to explore that further. Thank you. - applause - Thanks a lot. It's really great to be here. Now, let's start. Coming here to the Smithsonian to talk also gave me the opportunity to see the great exhibition that you have here. I was really impressed by it. I've never seen anything like it before. - laughs - It's a neat thing to put all the representations of the video games like that scattered through the exhibition. It was really good. Coming here has also given me the opportunity to visit the National Gallery here in this town for the first time. Even though I haven't seen the works there in real life before, I know many of the works quite intimately because as a young art student I had a book from which I copied a lot of the works there and studied the composition and such, so it's really good being here. Some of the paintings in this city actually helped me become an artist. This is Frans Hals, by the way. Now I call this little talk &quot;Pixels and Painting,&quot; but I experimented with the idea of naming it &quot;Stuff I Couldn't Have Done Were It Not for Computer Games.&quot; But it was too long. But the fact is that the computer games and computer graphics have put my painting on a track that it would never have gotten otherwise. Now... As an art student, I started out in a quite classical way by studying all the painting and doing a lot of marble drawing, croquis, and still lifes, and I was very determined to try to learn the techniques of painting and the craft itself. I didn't really have a finished idea of what I wanted to express, you know, in my painting, but I figured a good start would be to just learn how to do it--the technical aspects of painting. I'm going to take you through my painterly evolution, as it were. I figured out that learning to see was more important than having a finished idea or a theory in advance, so I decided to just focus on trying to get the technical skills up to scratch. It was quite naive and immature in a way, but I think was a good start. This one was called &quot;The Self Portrait in Warm Clothes.&quot; I remember having to open the windows of my apartment in the middle of Swedish winter to manage to do this because it really got too hot. At the same time as I was starting to, you know, learn to paint, I also, of course, was interested in computer games, but I hadn't connected the two interests yet. But this is a beautiful, pixel landscape from Sierra's King's Quest. I found that in early computer graphics, where the creators only had a few colors to work with and the limited resolution, they had to be very creative, often using color and form in innovative ways, and I found that they often produced stunning results. I also liked the idea of the pixel being the sort of smallest image part but still being visibly an object, you know, a rectangle. I think this is from kind of a Boulder Dash game. I'm not sure why the resolution here has--it's gone in widescreen again--but never mind. Anyway, when I got accepted to the Royal College of Art in Stockholm, I found that they had pretty advanced computer equipment, and I started experimenting a bit with the stuff they had. They had, among other things, a 3D scanner. This was in '96, and I hadn't seen anything like that before. I remember walking into the computer room at the Royal College and seeing a guy on a rotating table, his face being scanned by laser beams. I didn't really know where I was. It looked like sort of the command bridge of the Starship Enterprise or something. But I had to try that, so this is a scan of my face in '96, and you can see it rotating. The scanner apparently didn't catch my ears. Anyway, this is the image that actually was produced by the scanner if you flatten it out and don't use the 3D model beneath it. Well, of course, I had to do a painting of that texture file. Horrible painting, but I dressed the 3D model again with the painting, so this is a 3D painting, as it were. It was sort of an experiment, but it was fun. During my time there at the Royal College, I also had the opportunity to study in Madrid for a while as an exchange student, but I found that they mainly did model painting, and I already had done that for a couple of years, so I got a bit bored. Being a bit bored in Madrid, I spent my days almost sort of equally divided between drawing at the Prado Museum and playing Half-Life: Deathmatch at an internet cafe. So I would be at the Prado painting from Murillo and Velazquez, and then eating something, and then going to this internet cafe and fragging people. It was great fun. When I got back to Stockholm again, a friend of mine introduced me to this game Counter-Strike, and it really, in a way, had a great influence on the direction of my art. Okay, I'm hoping now to be at least among the first artists at the Smithsonian to show a fragmovie. Let's see if it runs. Okay, this is me playing Counter-Strike in 2002. Check out the headshots. [indiscernible] ...slow motion - laughs - Scout... boom. Ah, it's not bad. Anyway. Counter-Strike--for those of you who don't know what Counter-Strike is--it's an online team-based game, and you sort of have these rounds and you have to play two teams against each other and if you die in the game, you have to wait until either team wins, of course. What you do in the meantime... Well, there was this mode of following the players called free-look mode, and it was simply an option to allow the users to keep following the ongoing action by flying through the game map. You weren't hindered by whether there were any walls or anything there, and I found that when you flew through the walls, you saw parts of the image being quite realistic landscapes and part of the image just abstract void. I found it was a quite interesting reinterpretation of the classical notion of the spirit world, really. I mean, you were this entity looking through the logical construction of the world, and you could chat with the other players that were dead. You couldn't, of course, influence the game. You couldn't talk to the still-living players. So I made an exhibition, actually, based on images from Counter-Strike called &quot;Free-look mode,&quot; and this was in 2002. Trying to get the screenshots from the game also meant that sometimes when I was playing the game, I tried to get killed as quickly as possible to get good screenshots, you know. I remember getting kicked out of quite a few servers because they thought it was weird. They had no idea I was trying to get good, interesting images. Here's a couple of pictures. You have to use the pixel aspect ratio corrector in your head since the big screen doesn't want to follow my instructions, but you get the colors. Anyway, here I was trying to actually take a picture of this Aztec map in Counter-Strike, where the game designer had put a da Vinci painting on the wall. So I was standing there, pressing for a screenshot, and someone shot me in the head, so this is pixelated blood flowing. I wasn't really content with trying to get good pictures from someone else's game world, so I downloaded the free, available tools that they actually used to make Counter-Strike, and I made my own map for Counter-Strike called &quot;Priori,&quot; which I made in order to learn the tools, really, and because it was fun, you know. As you can see, I actually made about two hundred textures myself for this map and made everything, and, actually, the objective was to protect these Piero della Francesca frescoes from being blown up. I actually saw that this map is still being played in China, which I'm really proud of. Of course, making a computer game map like this involves a lot of tools, you know, and one of the softwares that I was using making this was called Terragen, and that's a landscape generator that was used to make the backdrops here. This is an image made in Terragen, and, as you can see, it's quite realistic. Basically, you sculpt the landscape in 3D, you decide, you know, cloud density, angle of the Sun, and everything, and then you press render, and it starts to render the scene. I was more interested in what would happen if it broke, so I made a couple of paintings where I actually crashed the software before it could finish, which resulted in these unfinished images of just landscapes being in the process of being created or destroyed. Well, created. These are all paintings. So that was for the second show I had in 2003. This isn't mine, unfortunately, but by using all these tools I really got the feeling that anything is possible, and I saw this Spanish still-life painter who wasn't content with just placing the objects in the window. He hung them up in strings as well just because he could and just to make an interesting image, and I was really inspired by that, so I thought, &quot;I can do anything.&quot; I'll just pick up stuff that I like, then I'll just mix it, and see what happens. I tried not to censor myself, so many of the images contained imagery from from antiquity or older paintings that I liked and, of course, computer games because I really liked the aesthetics, and I also found it quite an interesting challenge to try to render, you know, to make pixels come alive in paint. This is a piece by--I think it's Pierrot... You know, the invention of linear perspective during the Renaissance transformed the imagery of the Western world, and we're now so used to it that we don't think about it, but, I mean, even our 3D softwares are based on the linear perspective, which essentially is a construction. I recognized how similar that construction was to the 3D programs, and I started to wonder what would happen if I started studying old Renaissance paintings using a 3D program. I've also been interested in the theories of the golden ratio and the Fibonacci numbers, so that was a really easy thing to do in the computer, I noticed. So I made a painting series called &quot;Levels&quot; in 2006, which depicted the main character from King's Quest, Graham, walking through different scenarios, each canvas being sort of a level in his adventure through the exhibition. So every painting was a level, but all these paintings were composed extremely methodically on the golden ratio, and I'll show you what I mean. I started out by having a basic compositional idea. I wouldn't call it an idea--a framework. These are process pics. Just seeing what would happen--you see I'm moving about all these objects like actors on a stage, in a way, you know, and trying to make them fit into my idea--my silly, mathematical idea there. I was interested in what would happen when it clashed with this-- I mean, the story that always evolves when you start sketching and thinking about something, you know-- but I decided to always try to keep also to this mathematical idea. So anyway, I think I made twelve of these silly, strange pictures, and this is the final result. This is oil on canvas. This is another one... &quot;The golden apple.&quot; Of course, the golden apple in the painting is located in the golden *tongue click* point there. I think this was the last painting in that series... of course, named &quot;End boss.&quot; So, as you see, I made a lot of paintings like that, and when making these, I find that the blending of different imagery in the pictures--I mean, that comes partly from my wish to give the different pictorial elements sort of equal importance in the image. Sort of to maintain a level playing field, as it were. For example, I perhaps like to give the 8-bit owl up there the same respect as a cutout from a 15th century oil painting by, you know, [indiscernible] or something and also treat them in the same way by keeping the sampled imagery projected on a flat surface, even though the the flat surfaces are placed in a 3D world, you know, and by contrasting the flatness of the cutout images with the shadows that they cast from the virtual lighting. Their flatness is sort of exaggerated and, at the same time, the 3D space is rendered more illusory. You get what I mean? By also contrasting the pixelated elements from all games with more naturalistic parts, it kind of creates a new story where I don't really need to adhere to the conventions of a specific reality level. It's like the new painting creates its own reality. I also started making very small paintings. This one's called &quot;Dante and the three beasts,&quot; and it's only 15 x 15 centimeters. That's about 6 inches. It's tiny. So why not see a few close-ups of this tiny thing? I think his hand is smaller than the head of a match. I made a couple of those. This one's called &quot;Pergola.&quot; &quot;Patio.&quot; &quot;Actors.&quot; Of course, you see that I'm using the different image parts as actors, so I became this crazy director, you know, being the boss of all these image parts. - laughs - &quot;Bathers.&quot; The bathers are from, you know, &quot;The Baptism&quot; by Piero della Francesca, and the sort of pixelated cliff there is from King's Quest. That guy's from a fresco. I don't recall which one. In this one, the basis was a painting by Courbet, Gustave Courbet, and in the original, of course, he meets two men bowing before the great artist, so I placed him and I let him meet himself there. Actually, there's a tiny hair of beard going between them. I might be weird. Okay, this is a close-up. I mean, it's really important for me that the final result of all this quite tedious, long process is painting because I find that the physical aspect of painting and the translation from a digital image to painting is really important to me. For me at least, it comes alive, and I'm not content with the flat, digital image that I start out with. That may be a prejudice of mine, but I need to make a painting out of it. This one's called &quot;Change Of Set.&quot; &quot;Dresses.&quot; &quot;Drummerboy.&quot; &quot;Fighters.&quot; If there's anybody who's played Minecraft, you might recognize these guys if you put up paintings on the walls of Minecraft. I'll get to Minecraft later as well. &quot;Monologue.&quot; This one is sort of a self-portrait. Now, being the artist, I'm both the creator and the spectator in relation to the painting, of course. In some of my pictures I've included a figure that interacts or contemplates the scene and who could be interpreted as the creator of it but perhaps also someone merely exposed to it. By also treating this figure as an object in the painting, the border between the figure and the rest of the scene gets blurred, and the creator gets incorporated in the world she's created. I kind of like that idea, so a lot of my paintings include something of that element. Now here's a couple of process pics again. I'll try to make this fast, but it gives you an idea of how it can look when I'm sketching because this is how I sketch. I use this 3D program and I just rearrange the image parts, move them about, redirect the lighting, change the camera angle, and everything. I mean, in this picture you have elements from computer games, old master paintings, and Philip Guston up there in the corner. So it's really a mix. I'm kind of bummed that I didn't actually choose one of these images as the final result for the painting. I chose this one instead, but, you know, in retrospect, I should have chosen stuff like this. Anyway, this is the final painting. Here's a detail. It was called &quot;Stageworkers.&quot; &quot;Luteplayer.&quot; &quot;The Master.&quot; The image part of the woman there was taken from a 19th century French painting called &quot;The Copyist,&quot; where this woman was copying old masterpieces. Apparently, that was almost always women who did that, and I thought that was unfair, so I call this one &quot;The Master.&quot; Here's &quot;The Rest.&quot; &quot;Box Of Ornaments.&quot; &quot;The Wanderer.&quot; Of course, the wanderer here is taken from Caspar David Friedrich's &quot;Wanderer Above the Sea of Fog.&quot; I've included too many paintings. This one's called &quot;The Pool,&quot; and, as you can see, I've tried to mix different ways of painting as well. In 2009, I got the this great studio grant, so I suddenly had a huge studio in Stockholm where I could make bigger paintings, so this is one of them. &quot;Construction site.&quot; This is another one called &quot;The Game.&quot; Well, you really should check out my website if you want to see the pictures with the correct ratio. - laughs - Anyway, you know, you work for months to make the painting, and then it looks like that--anyway. You can imagine, okay. Because this actually took about three months to sculpt virtually in the computer, and then I painted it, and that took a while as well. Here's a close-up. Okay, so I think it works. This isn't meant to be a fancy video. It's just to show what it looks like when I'm sketching. So this is actually grabbed directly from the viewport of the 3D program I'm using, so that's why there's no anti-aliasing or anything. So that's why the edges are jagged and there's motion blur, but, as you can see, I can move the scene around, I can change the lighting. Here's a couple of extras that's outside outside the set, as it were, which I can just drag in if I find that I need them. Here's a closeup. Sketching the painting this way really makes the sketching process go very quickly, and when you learn all the tools, it's really kind of intuitive. If I decide that I need to include, say, a bird or something, I can just find the picture of a bird, cut it out, there it is--just takes five minutes. When people ask me, &quot;Isn't it cumbersome? Isn't it just hard work to try to do this in 3D before you paint it?&quot; It doesn't become that for me. It's just a great way to visualize everything, and some things are almost impossible to find. I mean, I'm so into this work process now that it would be hard for me to to leave it. Okay, so I made this one as well. Remember, I told you I made the paintings with this size. Well, this one is almost two hundred inches. A huge painting--5 meters. This one's called &quot;Drawing.&quot; I told you I was interested in the golden ratio and the compositional ideas, and I found this online tool where you could upload your pictures and it would check for-- you know, it could overlay a compositional image, like this golden spiral, and I was shocked to see this. I mean, I didn't actually plan this, so it's almost spooky. I must have damaged my brain in some way. It's hard-wired to Piero della Francesca's compositional techniques now, Jesus. &quot;Deer.&quot; Of course, it's a skeleton dear, but it's a deer. &quot;The gate.&quot; &quot;Moonlight installation.&quot; These are paintings from 2009, I think. &quot;Set on fire,&quot; which of course has double meaning here. She's setting it on fire, and it is a set that's on fire. Weird... &quot;Geology.&quot; Close-up. This was actually a guy I saw sleeping in the Berlin subway, and he was so cute. I had to take a picture, and he woke up and he stared at me. - laughs - &quot;Pwned Landscape.&quot; This is a huge painting. Two meters. This one's called &quot;Intelligent Design.&quot; &quot;Fog.&quot; &quot;Cutter.&quot; You see, in many of these paintings I've included black and white photography as well, sort of replacing the painting that I used earlier. These are from the last couple of years. I wanted to make the paintings a bit more monochrome, and I found a lot of interesting black and white photos-- actually, many of them from the states--that I just needed to use them. Yeah, that's why this weird mix comes in. Once again, the pixelated graphics and some kind of different kind of realism. &quot;The Wild Plant.&quot; &quot;Weeping Lighthouse.&quot; &quot;Broken Painting Machine.&quot; &quot;The Box.&quot; Am I going too fast? Yes? I'll back up. - laughs - I have too many pictures. Now, I've also made a couple of commissions, where I've used influences from computer games. Of course, doing glass mosaics is like a perfect translation of pixel graphics. I made them, for example, at the school outside of Stockholm. I made seven large, glass mosaics, I mean, this is an ancient material used for thousands of years, but I'm using it like just pixels-- so very influenced by, of course, the early computer games. Also, at another school, this is something I did last year--no, this spring. I made a couple of smaller glass mosaics for this school called &quot;Bricks in the Wall&quot; because they all had in common that they had this brick background, and I tried to place them in a way that, even though they are actually mounted on the wall, I tried to place and make the forms in such a way that you would get the feeling that they were actually behind the paint, you know. This is not a commission that's actually being constructed right now, where I'm using, you know, traditionalist church glass--lead glass-- antique, glass pieces that mounted with lead, and I gave them the pixel treatment. So this is actually being constructed right now. It should be opened in late autumn, but you see that it's kind of a big window. Of course, next year I'm planning another commission at the new Karolinska University Hospital in Stockholm. It's actually, right now, the largest building site in Europe someone told me because it's such a huge hospital, and I'm planning to make a large, tile mosaic there. Here every pixel is this big--ten centimeters--so it's eighty meters of wall times 5 meters, so it's it's really huge, and you won't be able to see the image if you don't back up quite far. Also, of course, I made a couple of things for a game called Minecraft, and the creator of Minecraft, Markus Persson-- Markus Persson--why am I saying it in English? Markus Persson is his name--has been a friend of mine since long before he started making Minecraft, and early on in the development of the game, actually, before it was really popular, he kind of decided that it would be fun to have my paintings as part of decorations for the game. So I just shrunk down a couple of paintings, and he programmed them into the game, and then later on when Minecraft became really popular--I mean, that's an understatement--it's really popular. Of course, I got quite a few visitors interested in Minecraft to my webpage. This is the day after he mentioned my website on Twitter. Okay, so it went from 393 to 13,557. That's kind of an increase. Of course, since Minecraft is such a popular game, there was actually a journalist who talked to me, and he said he had calculated that I was probably the most exposed artist in the world right now because I have 24 paintings in the game, and he said Minecraft has sold this many copies--can you imagine? Yeah... maybe. Anyway, as a homage to Minecraft and those interested in Minecraft, I'm going to show you what the paintings actually look like--the original paintings. This is, of course, the Minecraft version and here's the real version. But it's square. Here's another one. It looks like this. Another one looks like this. &quot;Match,&quot; it's called. Weird. Here's a close-up. I don't think you can guess what is this It's a kebab. I remember I was at the Royal College, and I got the urge to paint flowers, but I didn't dare to so I started painting kebabs. Graham, of course, is from Graham. So a lot of meta stuff going on. Donkey Kong, of course. Oh, does anybody recognize this one? Okay, who's this? - It's from... I can't remember the name... - Yeah? Anybody else? Yeah? - Venus de Milo? - No. No, it's from one of my favorite games, actually, Grim Fandango. Yeah, so this is Manny Calavera. The pig here is actually from a painting where the pig isn't there. It's called &quot;RGB,&quot; this one. It's called &quot;RGB.&quot; This abstract thingy is actually a painting from de_aztec in Counter-Strike. This one is from this painting. So a lot of levels here. I mean, in order not to break the illusion in the game, the game designer needs to stay out of the picture, but I sometimes find that the traces of the creation of the game to be an interesting addition, you know, like in a Brechtian Verfremdungseffekt. So, I mean, encountering bugs in a game is an example of such a moment when the immersion in the game is shattered and instead of being scared of that monster, you laugh at it being sort of stuck halfway through the ceiling or something, you know. The imperfections remind us of the creator, the artist, or the game designer, and sometimes it brings us closer to the intentions of the artwork, and the hand in this painting, &quot;Pointer,&quot; was meant as a hand belonging to another realm of realism than the karate fighter. Of course, the backdrop there from Caspar David Friedrich--yet another one. But I didn't actually think of Michelangelo's painting &quot;The Creation of Adam,&quot; but someone pointed it out. I mean, of course, but I didn't see it. I didn't think about it when I made the painting. It was only afterwards when someone pointed it out that I saw the obvious connection. So, in a way, I had a bug in my painting. This is a close-up. This is one of my recent images called &quot;Final Touch,&quot; and this is a painting from a show that's currently ongoing in Stockholm, and the title of the show is &quot;Uncanny Valley.&quot; That's a term used to describe the effect that occurs when the representation of something is perceived as almost but not quite real. That's used particularly in the development of humanoid robots, where one barrier to the interaction with the robot is that the robot is perceived as creepy instead of, you know, a convincing representation of a human. Also in computer graphics, of course, computer game developers have found that their game characters fall into the uncanny valley, and they sometimes discover that when the computer graphics were, in a sense, worse, it was easier to identify with the characters. So, at least in some cases, the solution has been to make the graphics less real. I think that was the case, actually, with Half-Life 2. They could make the personas, the characters even more photorealistic, but when they did, it just got creepy, you know. I was going to say the term &quot;uncanny valley&quot; is also used as a term for the confusion that can arise when different reality levels collide in a sense. Since I find the juxtaposition of different imagery interesting--as you can see through all my paintings-- and I think it all boils down to the pleasure of seeing something in a new light, whether it's uncanny or not. I'm reminded by the opening lines of &quot;Metaphysics&quot; by Aristotle, which are, &quot;All men by nature desire to know. An indication of this is the delight we take in our senses; for even apart from their usefulness they are loved for themselves; and above all others the sense of sight.&quot; That's quite a statement in defense of painting if there ever was one. Thank you. - applause - So, any questions? Yeah. - Hello. - Hi. - It's gonna seem like a dumb question, but I'll just go ahead and ask it. I always feel like I'm sort of art illiterate, like I just sort of don't get it-- - Yeah. - --you, know, and even you described a lot of your work as weird as you were showing it. - Yeah. - I mean, what would you say to somebody who sees art, sees like the Andy Warhol bit with the soup cans and goes, &quot;Okay, well what am I supposed to take from that? I mean, what's the meaning of it? So if you could speak to kind of that... It's hard to answer because sometimes there is nothing to &quot;get,&quot; in a way. It's all about, you know, what you make of it, in a way. Of course a lot of art has this barrier, in a sense, that you sort of feel that there's something you should know and that makes you feel, you know-- and you don't know it, so you feel a bit like you're not included in the context. That can be a barrier itself, so when you have this idea and when you persuade yourself you're not supposed to get it, then you can't get it, and perhaps in many cases, there isn't a finished solution to the answer of the artwork or the question. - &quot;The Game&quot; piece you had--I saw the man was older. Is that by design? Is he wearing the sweater he's wearing by design, or is it all just sort of you doing free flow? - It was kind of just free-flowing in the sense that I just asked my uncle to go there--come in-- and I took some photos of him, and whatever he happened to decide to dress for that day was what happened and then what got into the painting, of course. Yeah? - I've noticed that a lot of art--you've shown some of the installations that you've made-- and if you look at the history of art, a lot of the styles of art have already been explored, from hyperrealism, to pointillism, to abstract art, to soup cans, right? Do you find that a lot of the people are making commissions or asking for artists to put installations in public areas are really gravitating towards artists like you, who can relate or bring elements back from what is called &quot;popular culture&quot;? A lot of your elements come from 1980s, 1990s video games. Do you see that as a driver for that kind of commissions? - I'm not sure. Of course, there's always an element of, you know, people who commission art-- I mean, they're also sort of victims of their own nostalgia in a way. If they happen to be about my age and they remember playing computer games, I suppose it affects their decision on whether they want to have a pixelated thing on the town square. So, I mean, there's always this recurring thing that you want the right kind of popular culture to influence the art that you see, and who's to say what the right kind of popular culture is? Well, you. If you happen to be deciding what's going to be put on the walls of a school, well, that's what's going to happen. - A lot of your pieces use really old-school video games--like 8-bit--and I'm wondering now that, you know, the technology of video games is creating such more realistic imagery, is that changing how you use video games in your work? Is that sort of changing how you look at it? - Well, of course, the unique thing about the early computer graphics was, I mean, the pixel, and the flatness that the pixel represents is really what interests me. When I'm not using pixels, I'm using flat planes or objects like these to experiment with the 3D space and so on. So it doesn't have to be these old computer games that sort of make it into my paintings. It could be, of course, new ones as well, but I found that more and more, I'm actually using the tools that the new games bring and not so much the aesthetics because as soon as the the imagery and the aesthetics of the games is hardly-- you know, you can't really tell them apart from a movie--I mean, then there is no point. So you have to use it in a different way, and I suppose I do. Yeah. - You seem to use a lot of the same stuff like over and over in your artwork. Is there like some reason why you do that? Because it seemed you use like King's Quest a lot and like other stuff that seem to be repetitive... - Yeah. - Why is that? - Just as I'm reusing the same pixelated element from King's Quest, I might use a favorite piece of painting from Piero della Francesca. I have all these sort of actors that are my favorites, and I find that when I'm constructing a scene, I find myself thinking, &quot;Wow, that's a great place where the pixelated hill to come in.&quot; &quot;That would look great there.&quot; So I just liked them, and that's why I used them again and again. In the case of the pixelated hill from King's Quest, I just got the idea that this was the flattest object I could find. I haven't found a flatter object. I mean, it would, of course, be just a monochrome--just gray or just black-- but the pixelated hill actually tries to be in 3D because it has this lit side and the shadow side, you know, and I think it's adorable. - laughs - I just need to use that image part. So that's why; I like them. That's the short answer. - laughs - - Relating back to the Minecraft experience--your paintings ended up in Minecraft. Minecraft became a commercial success. Not necessarily in your personal experience in that did you make any money off of that but if you look at artists currently in school today, is there a market for them to make a living, or at least some money on the side, in video games, and is it a per cost basis upfront or are they able to ask for royalties if the game became a great success? You know, is there a market evolving in this arena generally? I mean that because I see video games as being sort of the new public space, especially if you look at the-- - Now, are you asking about computer games and video games? - Correct, I mean if you look, it could be not necessarily so much of a game. I mean, somebody earlier mentioned a game called Second Life, which is not so much a game as a public space, right? - Yeah, yeah. Yeah, of course. I think it's just now, in the latest years, opening up--the indie scene-- where one person can make a game and it sells really well. I mean, I don't think it was possible in the same way, like 5-10 years ago. Maybe it was, but I'm no expert on the subject, but I find that I'm seeing more and more of these smaller startups, and they're actually getting noticed with crowdsourcing opportunities, like in Kickstarter or something. I think there's opening up a whole range of new possibilities in that way, yeah. - I just wanted to ask what video games you like to play now and what you think about the art in the current video games. I'm really impressed by like Uncharted and LittleBigPlanet. I think it's pretty amazing. I just wanted to get your feeling on what's out there now. - Yeah, I play mostly, exclusively actually, a PC game, so I haven't played a LittleBigPlanet yet, but I'm really impressed by the aesthetics, and I like the look of it. I haven't played a lot of the latest games because my graphic card isn't up to scratch, but when Valve is releasing a new game, I take that as an opportunity to spend a fortune on my computer equipment. Listen now, Gabe Newell, when Half-Life 3 comes, I'm going to upgrade my entire computer area. Actually right now, I'm playing with my daughter--she's eight years old-- and she said that she wanted to play Portal again with me. We already played through both Portal, but she wanted to do it again, and I couldn't be happier. - laughs - I mean, it's wonderful. Sometimes I find myself jumping out of airplanes in Just Cause 2 as well. What more? Of course, the occasional Total War episode. - I remember the point you made about Half-Life 2 and the uncanny valley-- - Yeah. I mean, I think they're getting to the point pretty soon where it's going to be movie quality imagery they have. - Yeah, absolutely. - Probably by the time Half-Life 3 comes. - Yeah, I think so. It's going to be perhaps creepy. - laughs - - I was wondering if you could speak a little bit to the idea of your works as games and showing your process and your discussions about how interested you are in like golden ratios and those issues. It seems like you sort of have a set of rules for yourself within which you play. - Yeah, it's a good question. Well, there's always this duality between, you know, setting rules and following them and then also accepting chaos, and in order to surprise yourself, you have to let some kind of chaos into the process. All artists do it in different ways. In order to tell the difference between chaos and sort of the boundaries in which you've decided is to have boundaries and to have a certain kind of rules because otherwise you couldn't tell, right? So, I guess my work process involves some steps that keep it locked in, in a way, but at the same time gives me the opportunity to just free flow and let chaos in, in a way. I have constructed a game for myself, a game of creativity, if you will, where I just made up the rules, of course, and I'm the only player, but I enjoy it. - Would you ever want to work in video games? - Work in video games? - As a video game artist? - I'm not sure. I mean, right now I'm sort of interested in what I'm doing, and it would be kind of a big break to just focus on a completely sort of different aspect, but it would be interesting, of course, and I wouldn't mind it, but right now I sort of couldn't. - Hi there. I have a question about your sketching--your digital compositions. Do you use clip art from all over the place? You said there was a picture that you took of a man in Berlin. The photographs that you've taken and then your uncle in the sweater and bits like that-- and do you keep libraries of it, or do you search at the moment? - Both. I have vast libraries of clipart and illustrations and things I've scanned, you know, into digital libraries and things I've found. When I'm sketching and I'm thinking of something, I, of course, go online and search frantically on Flickr or something like that. - Pulling people's images off of their photo streams-- - Yeah, I'm stealing all your stuff. Anything I can, I'm stealing. But it's so much imagery, you know, of course, so you never know what might pop up, but I also have a huge digital painting library with over 70,000 paintings sorted by artist. - Of the masters' works? - Yeah, so sometimes I remember, &quot;Oh yeah, this painting of Bellini. I got to find it.&quot; Then I look in the folder and there it is, and I cut it out and put it in the 3D program. But the different image parts come from all different available sources. I mean, it could be my own drawing sometimes. I remember, for example, trying to find the perfect tree that was drawn. I needed a black and white drawn tree, and I was looking all over the web. I was searching my database, and then I remembered something important. Hey, I'm a painter. I'm an artist. I can draw a tree. So I took a piece of paper and I drew a tree, and it was good. I took a picture of that and put it in the game. - That's great. Then do you do screenshots for some of the stuff from the games? - Oh yeah, yeah. - Because that's really fascinating, especially that video you had. I don't remember the name of the painting that had your uncle in the sweater, or the man in the sweater... As you pivot it--the view in the 3D software--is it that you choose a particular perspective, and then you say, &quot;Oh, that's the painting. That's what I want&quot;? - Exactly. Yeah, so I'm looking for a good shot and often, of course, I'm constructing the scene from my viewpoint. So I'm not as much, you know, scanning back and forth and trying to find a good picture. Sometimes, I just fix the camera, and then I move everything else about. That was also something I found with the the central perspective as devised in the 15th century. You know, that you choose a point and every other line is just going through to the horizon, and it all depends on one point, and that's your eye. Just one eye, you know. But in the 3D software, you can instead let that point be a fixed point and then construct the entire world according to that. So it's a sort of juxtapositioning of use there. - That's great, thank you. - Silence. - Thank you very much, Kristoffer, for helping. - Thank you. - applause -