Translator: Jessica Lee So how do we learn? And why does some of us learn things So, as I just mentioned, I am a brain researcher here These are the questions that fascinate me. (Cheers) (Applause) So brain research in the understanding of human physiology, and also in the consideration It's an amazing time and I would argue to you that I have the most interesting job What we know about the brain And much of what we thought we knew turns out to be not true or incomplete. Some of these misconceptions For example, we used to think that after childhood the brain did not, And it turns out that nothing Another misconception about the brain is that you only use parts of it and it's silent when you do nothing. Well, this is also untrue. It turns out and thinking of nothing, So it's been advances that's allowed us to make these And perhaps the most exciting, the most interesting is that, every time you learn you change your brain. It's something we call neuroplasticity. So as little as 25 years ago, the only changes that took place the loss of brain cells with aging, the result of damage, like a stroke. And then, studies began of reorganization in the adult brain. And the ensuing research has shown us that all of our behaviors That these changes are not limited by age, it's a good news right? And in fact, And very importantly, brain reorganization helps after you damage your brain. The key to each of these changes So what does it look like? So your brain can change to support learning. And the first is chemical. So your brain actually functions between brain cells, and this triggered a series So to support learning, or the concentrations that's taking place between neurons. Because this change can happen rapidly, this supports short-term memory or the short-term improvement The second way that the brain is by altering its structure. So during learning, the brain can change Here, the physical structure so this takes a bit more time. These type of changes are related the long-term improvement These processes interact, We've all tried to learn maybe playing the piano, maybe learning to juggle. You've had the experience within a single session of practice, and thinking &quot;I have got it.&quot; And then, maybe you return the next day, and all those improvements What happened? Well, in the short-term, the chemical signaling But for some reason, those changes that are necessary Remember that And what you see in the short term It's these physical changes that are now going to support and chemical changes Structural changes also can lead that function together And they can also lead that are important to change your structure or to enlarge. So here's some examples of that. People who read Braille have larger hand sensory areas Your dominant hand motor region, if you are right-handed, And research shows who actually have to memorize a map they have larger brain regions devoted The last way that your brain is by altering its function. As you use a brain region, It becomes more and more excitable And as your brain has these areas the brain shifts With learning, we see that whole networks of brain activity So neuroplasticity is supported by chemical, by structural, and these are happening They can occur in isolation but most often, Together, they support learning. And they're taking place all the time. I just told you really Why can't you learn anything Why do our kids sometimes fail in school? Why as we age And why don't people fully recover That is: what is it that limits And so this is what I study. I study specifically how it relates Recently, stroke dropped from being the third leading cause to be the forth leading cause Great news, right? But actually, it turns out that the number of people We are just better at keeping It turns out to be very difficult And frankly, we have failed to develop The net result of this of long-term disability individuals with stroke are younger and tending to live longer and research from my group actually shows that the health-related quality of life So clearly we need to be better at helping people recover from stroke. This is an enormous societal problem, and it's one that we are not solving. So what can be done? One thing is absolutely clear: the best driver of neuroplastic change The problem is that the dose that's required to learn is very large. And how to effectively deliver is a very difficult problem; So the approach is to develop therapies that prime And these have included brain simulation, But through my research, to the development of therapies is that patterns of neuroplasticity As a researcher, It makes it very difficult to test your data and your ideas. And because of this, specifically designed But in my research, that the most important, is showing this variability. So by studying the brain and I think these lessons The first lesson is that the primary driver of change so there is no neuroplasticity drug Nothing is more effective than practice and the bottom line And in fact, my research has shown increased difficulty, increased struggle actually leads to both more learning, and greater structural change The problem here is that neuroplastcity It can be positive, and you refine a motor skill. And it also can be negative though, you become addicted to drugs, maybe you have chronic pain. So your brain is tremendously plastic, and it's been shaped both structurally but also by everything that you don't do. The second lesson is that there is So there is no recipe for learning. Consider the popular belief to learn and to master a new motor skill. I can assure you For some of us, it's going to take a lot more practice, So the shaping of our plastic brains for there to be any single intervention This realization has forced us to consider This is the idea that to optimize outcomes each individual requires And the idea actually comes And here it turns out that genetics certain types of chemotherapy My research is showing that this There're certain characteristics we called biomarkers. And these biomarkers and helping us to match specific therapies The data from my lab suggests that best predicts neuroplastic change And that's not surprising, given But I also think we can consider Given the unique structure what we've learned about neuroplasticity Behaviors that you employ Each of them is changing your brain. And I believe we have to consider not just personalized medicine The uniqueness both as a learner and also as a teacher. This idea helps us to understand why some children can thrive and others don't; why some of us can learn languages easily and yet, others can pick up So when you leave this room today, your brain will not be the same And I think that's pretty amazing. But each of you is going to have changed Understanding these differences, these individual patterns, is going to enable it's going to allow us to develop and allow for matches and patients and interventions. And this does not just apply it applies to each of us, as a parent, and also because you are Study how and what you learn best. Repeat those behaviors and break those behaviors Practice. Learning is about doing the work So the best strategies You know what, they're even going So for you, learning music but learning to snowboard, much harder. I hope that you leave today with a new appreciation You and your plastic brain are constantly Understand that everything you do, everything you encounter, and everything And that can be for better, So when you leave today, Thank you very much. (Applause)