Ok so I've never really been a big fan of change. If I like something, I'll stick Especially with my choice of tech. For example, my first smartphone then a Note 5, then to my current Note 9. But a year ago today, I made the switch to an Well because of this. Look I was pretty set to hate every aspect 20 years but it's actually been an it's kinda changed my life. Of course I did really screws up from here, I don't think "Oh mate but did you try the ASUS G14", "the My last laptop was a Razer Blade 15 so I guess you could say I experienced the best "Oh mate but Razer is a bit []" Shh - I know. I just wish It's the age old question. Windows vs mac, really no clear answer, except that if you might want to click off this video right now. And I'll admit it, when I was younger, I was were a bit technologically challenged and very always thought that Macs were bit of a dumbed down Now, workflows are highly personal things, so your use case. I do alot of creative work more smoothly and so much faster you might find Windows more useful and if you've For me, I've always been a big fan of Windows. lying around which I eventually bricked with on to a slightly newer XP system which I also the way to a Windows 11 Razer Blade 15. Now this it on. The battery lasted 3 hours max with panel constantly made me want to jump out of my The laptop only ever ran at full performance when could never really take it around with me, because way too heavy to be considered anything close to computer. It could be just a Razer thing, but all The point is, I was just used to it, it was the only thing I've ever used and there was really no other option. But eventually the fan noises got to me. issues and that constant need to troubleshoot Now around this time, the M1 Macbook Pro watching probably a hundred reviews my bias to the side and bought And I was surprised. The ProMotion display no joke. It's clear that MacOS is trying to the fluid animations, bright and vibrant the Finder icon is literally a smiley face. something that I've never really felt while worked - well like 95% of the time - and it works It was pretty easy to get used Now, as many of you probably heard before, laptop out there. Ok Apple fanboys, let's a bit [] - it was just way too expensive for did some magic with this one. The thin bezels on I don't even mind the notch anymore. The machine just feels enjoyable. The typing experience is to any Windows laptop. The speakers are For the first time in my life, I feel like or earphones. It's sort of a liberating absolutely silent. When I dock it, sometimes and at this point I don't think I'll Also, apparently it integrates pretty well with really in the Apple ecosystem, I can't really MacOS sorta feels like I'm using a big phone with sense. I can imagine that the experience would be It's been quite an eye opening realise how closed-minded and how But as good as Mac is, there are still some things that I struggled with or didn't really Apple's interaction design philosophy is experiences people already have on a day to which mimic a real life switch. And sometimes, Windows management is wack. By default, sort of. You can snap windows by doing some found out about yesterday. But if you want some third party software - which by the way going to cost you. Without it, I find Another thing that I struggled with was people seem to like this process simply because so much easier. To uninstall, you just drag the drag it into a folder - well at least for the dmg I'm not a huge fan. It just feels so wrong. Like a png file into a folder? Like on Windows, I wish steps to know exactly what's happening to my files that install directly onto the hard drive, Also when you click to close, the application as if to mock your entire existence. And you have to right click and click "Oh mate, RAM usage works Please stop coping. And by the way, I still can't seem to find the ever used it except accidentally pressing it and And let's talk about the dock. It's very pretty - The dots below app icons indicate the the app it opens every window of that app instead of "Oh but that's by design mate" But y tho. And application previews aren't And don't get me started on scrolling but as soon as I use an external mouse, change the settings to fix this, then Yes, third party apps can fix this but why should I be getting 50 different "Oh that's cos MacOS isn't Look I get this argument. But there don't make any sense. And I'm not sure why But overall that's really it (so far). It's and I've never seen Adobe products work so wake up time is virtually instant. I feel like I'm not saying that Mac is better than Windows. now, I don't think there's really any competition I realised that I let my stubborn [] and my biases Now it truly feels like there's one There's less stress, and so much more time can And who knows, if the upcoming Windows I might have to try that out too. I don't love MacOS, not yet anyway. But I'm pretty used to it now and I'm really glad that I had the chance to try it out. If sick of your Windows device like It might just be the start of