Hello Son, It's me Close the door. Lot of leakers out there. Let me give you some sugar first Open your mouth Little more Let it be any good news. You have to start with sweets What? Where is Pearle darling? She is in the bathroom I want to put some sugar into her mouth She is a naughty girl What is the matter? You shouldnt have done this to me. What? Cant you be open to me Why do you have to hide if there is something like this Didnt I tell you about my husband's constipation? Yesterday I had told you about his piles operation too We didnt hide anything from you Aunty first have a seat Isn't Pearle pregnant? Yes I saw that I saw it on her face You first sit down Ask me what did I see What did you see? PREGNANCY GLOW She does facial daily Dont fool me I am very happy. I will see a baby soon Nilu darling It is me, Sumalathaunty I have brought sugar for you She is showing off when she is going to become a big sister You dont love me the way the baby does You shouldnt have hid this from me Nilu, go call your mother Where is your mother? Where is she? Where is she? Call her soon Aren't you Kumari? Srinis mother. I am meeting her for the first time. Sit down I got to know the good news When I see you, it reminds me of a song Dont press a lot.. You would have come knowing Pearle's good news Actually who are you? Didnt get you You havent understood me? Oh my God! I am like Pearle's mother We have been living as neighbours for years If tomatoes are over at my house, I come here. If ginger is over here at her house, she comes there We live like a family Just that I couldnt meet you. You would have come knowing Pearle is pregnant and feels nausea and so You might be here to help her You are so pretty If you are sitting bored, you can join our kitty party We are a bunch of posh girls in the kitty group I shall come now. Dear Pearle! Hello Aunty When did you come? Around 60yrs back. But that is not the matter now Arent you pregnant? How did you know? Dont you read the comments that come under your You Tube channel? Not only comments. This is the discussion in our kitty party too Moreover I too had put a comment below those Pearle is 8 months pregnant for sure I too had put such a comment In sumucrush2023 We have prepared a nice concept for this. We are planning a photo shoot too We are planning to reveal it as a surprise on Instagram, You Tube and Facebook I feel a bit shy too Who has time for all that? How many months now? 3 months. ie 12-13 weeks I shall do that for you. Dont worry No need. Srini.. tell her. I was waiting to meet you You are youngsters and would feel shy to disclose I shall take care of this I am standing at Pearle's house Can you see her standing here showing her tummy Sreeni is hiding from here I am fed up guys All of you were asking me when would I come Now I got inside their house I am standing inside Pearle's house now. All of you should subscribe to my channel now itself I am going to break a suspense at the end. I shall come later Dont forget to subscribe All of you should comment following the link All my plans are a flop now. Could you smile It is for the thumbnail Move that side What all plans we had! Pregnancy photoshoot, reveal.. Lot of surprises etc.. You dont have to worry. She is simply boasting. She doesnt have any You Tube channel Isnt it? I think she doesnt even have wifi Anyways, we shall do it tomorrow itself Hello guys. I am standing at Pearle's house Peale Maaney is Pregnant! You will be surprised if you see this Sumalatha live from Pearlish family Look at my photo in her thumbnail She has put it so shabby But nice comments How about watching it on tv Come. Once again hello guys! That was our special pregnancy reveal video Both of us are very happy Many have been asking for a while whether I am pregnant Yes. I have completed 3 months 12 weeks That is why we didnt have any videos Nilu has gone We will be regular now. It was a bit difficult the first 3 months. She needed some rest. She had good rest And now she is back to form Thank you so much. Pray for us and we need your blessings Thank you so much. Love you all. Bye bye