[MUSIC PLAYING] [HORSE HOOVES CLOPPING] ALYSSA GOODMAN: In 1854, cholera Over 600 people died Physician John Snow is often that cholera is a waterborne epidemic by removing the handle from The full story is much more interesting. [MUSIC PLAYING] So I've been reading about There it is. Look at that. Right here, on what used to be Broad There's this very inauspicious sign. It says here, &quot;The Red Granite &quot;marks the site of the Pump associated with Dr. that Cholera is conveyed by water.&quot; So that's a really simple summary And to give you just an So it's 1854. It's really hot and the end We're here is Soho, which was a of tenements with people And there were a lot of people many, many people to an apartment. And it's hot, and it's sweaty. And the part that you can't imagine, pretty crowded; it's not that hot, the street now is completely clean. We see street sweeping vehicles. We see drainage in the streets. We have sewers. None of that was true in 1854. Instead, the people who lived had cesspools in these And they would take their and just kind of throw it out or bring it down to the cesspool. And then it would drain And the street-- whoa-- that you could easily walk Wow, that's slippery and disgusting. And so people were used to this kind And people thought that when there especially cholera, that it was at this miasma, that they called it. And the smell from all the poo and all And it was a pretty that that could be causing disease. But John Snow, who lived we'll go there later-- who was convinced that cholera, in It was not carried in this smelly air. And what happened here was that there was a baby who lived would have been just about with some sort of terrible disease And I think pretty quickly, people and that there was going to be another And people started dying. So what happens? What happened was the waste who became ill with the cholera-- mixed with the water supply that I think it was about 20 feet And then the cholera And then people would provides the human intestines a place They need a host like that. So anyway, when people ingest they come down with cholera from And John Snow, who really where he could, unfortunate have a very concentrated where he could study the was interested in helping the people in collecting information about what So he would have come over and started canvassing all the people and who needed help and what they from the various water And right here, at a location was a source of what was apparently actually, water for drinking. Right here, it's called And it turned out, as he started that he realized that most of and who were continuing to fall ill had So there were other water And one of the things is that, in the end, when he put all he had to show that this pump by of the people who eventually in the epidemic. So even though there are other potentially nearer to those and was close to the So in epidemiology today, it's known is to have exceptions who should have died, who didn't die for no apparent reason. And so John Snow, in both of those kinds of exceptions. And so one case is what people were saved by the beer. And so these were the brewery workers and drank mostly beer, and so had And the other case was the And these were the most in poorest of health. And so why did they live? They systematically And part of the reason-- the main is that the workhouse had a well, had So there are the exceptions of people And then what happened about a family who would bring had moved far, a couple miles, And they brought her some And she and her niece drank it. And those people both died. So to us, looking at modern John Snow had plenty of evidence to contained the contaminant But it still took actually many years And another thing that we should collect all this data himself. If you look around the see that this is a with lots and lots of people. And I think it was even busier in 1854. But it was a small contained community. And there were people, for example a local, who kind of knew everybody. And so John Snow worked with Whitehead to really canvas the the kind of sociological that he needed to know who lived where, got their water, who they talked all kinds of other details And so that kind of in this tightly knit community, [MUSIC PLAYING]