Transcriber: Maria Constanza Cuevas (Referee whistle sound) Good evening! Good evening. How are you? Are you good? Great! Welcome, welcome, welcome to this match. This match will take exactly 18 minutes. OK? And you're all part of the same team: Mechelen. OK? Hey guys, I would like to see respect and positivity. Is that OK for everyone? Cool. Good luck! One year ago, I decided Not because of the money, though. I only get paid 20 euros per match. So I won't really get rich by it, will I? No. I decided to become a referee One - to stay in good shape. Two - because I wanted to learn [How not to take things personally?] I can see some people nodding. You are probably thinking, &quot;Being a referee to learn how not to take Because the spectators hardly ever No. What do they shout? Come on, come on. [Audience:] &quot;Loser! Are you blind?&quot; Yeah, yeah, good! As a referee, I am the scapegoat. Apparently, I'm always wrong. It's always my fault. And I wanted to learn Because I really struggle with this. For example, when I drive slowly because I'm trying to find and somebody is just I feel hunted. Especially when they start honking I take it personally. I know I shouldn't, but it just happens. Do you see what I mean? Or when somebody cancels I get the feeling Again, I take it personally. Even professionally. I'm a public speaker, like tonight. This is what I do. I give keynote speeches, as long as I can draw Because the very moment for example, when somebody (snap) it just happens: I take it personally. Relax! You are safe tonight. Don't worry. Feel free to take your smartphones, and you can even start talking I will not take it personally. Why not? Because now, here and now, And more importantly, So tonight, I would like to share Are you interested? Cool. Because, I guess, I'm not who sometimes takes Imagine - imagine you invite a friend &quot;Oh, sorry, I have to work.&quot; But you see a picture on social media of her having dinner Or imagine you really have worked You're really proud of the end result, but the only thing you get is criticism. So you come home, and you would like to wind down But while you're telling your story, the other one walks away Now, who would take Show me hands, come on. Lots of you. Why? Why do we take things personally? Somebody says We feel hurt, neglected, offended, That's what we believe, though. It's the other person's fault. He's responsible for what we feel. He's the one to blame. Now, hang on, hang on. Who says that? Which part of us is speaking? [Why?] [Ego] It's our ego. Our ego thinks that others Our ego doesn't want Our ego wants to be acknowledged: &quot;I'm right!&quot; Is this what you want? Do you want to be right? [Do you want to be right?] (Sigh) That's exhausting. When my ego takes over, I'm in a constant struggle And it drains my energy. Wouldn't it be so much easier Because then no one has power over you. You're free. You experience much more between you and other people. Of course! Because your energy instead of endlessly battling So the question is do you want to be right I know what some of you are thinking: &quot;I will make sure Well, how do you do it? How to become happy You are standing at the kickoff the match by which you will learn So as a referee, And every coin has two sides: And they stand for two strategies, two strategies to no longer Sir, sir, good evening. You're the captain of this huge team. You can choose: heads or tails? (&quot;Captain&quot;) Heads. Okay. You're lucky. It's heads! Are you ready for the first strategy? OK, here it comes. First strategy - It's not about me. What do you mean it's not about me? This sounds weird, doesn't it? Because when I take things personally, When I see someone is looking I think, &quot;Hey, I've put so much effort I want respect.&quot; I think, &quot;Me, myself and I.&quot; Sounds familiar, no? Yeah. But in fact, it isn't about me. What if I try to look at it asking myself, &quot;Why? Why is he or she Maybe he has just received an important Or the topic of my presentation Could be! Or, on the contrary, and he wants to take notes Very smart to do that, by the way. I simply need to shift my focus and I won't take it personally. If I try to see the intention I make space for understanding Does this ring a bell with you? When you put your son to bed he throws himself on the floor, Do you take that personally? No! No, you don't because you know It's about what he wants, what he needs. He's angry because he just wants So the first strategy it's not about me. Look at the other person's intention. When a driver is tailgating he probably does it It's not about me, you see? It's as simple as that. In theory. Because in real life, Do you have any idea, how many thoughts 50,000! And guess how many of them are positive? Only 10,000. So this means that 80% of what we think That's a lot, isn't it? When you see two colleagues and just then, they look at you do you think, &quot;Oh, they must have noticed my new shoes No! Or do you think, &quot;Darn, they're laughing at me. They are gossiping about me.&quot; So it takes a lot of effort &quot;Hang on. I have no clue! They might be laughing about something So seeing the positive intention requires a lot of discipline and training. And that's why I became a referee: to train my brain I train my brain the entire period of a match. I say this for the football dummies. Now, before the match, I'm warming up. Not only physically, but also mentally. I give myself some pep talk &quot;Frederik, watch out. Lots of things will trigger you You're going to make decisions and they will shout So I tell myself, &quot;Frederik, don't take it personally. It's not about me. They just want to be right. They simply want their team to win.&quot; You see? When I focus on the intention there's no need to take it personally. When I apply this strategy I admit it, I feel much more When the coach, do not agree with my decisions, I'm less easily thrown off balance. This strategy, But not always, unfortunately. Because some words they shout at me, &quot;You're a loser. Choose another hobby! You know what? Go fishing!&quot; Ouch! Maybe they are right. Perhaps I took the wrong decision. Maybe I am a loser. Honestly, that's how I feel sometimes. Do you see this? Every coin has a flip side. When this first strategy - it simply means &quot;It is about me!&quot; [It is about me.] I have to look in the mirror As a beginning referee, Especially me. I never played soccer. It is about me because it has something to do I doubt about myself. Or a part of myself Do you see my point, ladies and gentlemen? Even if I know that a driver is only tailgating I still take it personally when he honks So I must question myself. Probably I was driving too slowly. I'm aware of it. I just don't like Why else would I When I say, &quot;Ladies and gentlemen, who would take this personally? No one, right? Why not? Because nothing in you believes An orange? Unless, of course, that you're a ginger Which is luckily not the case with me. But - but when someone says, Ouch! I do take it personally. And it only happens because I know If I'm honest, I'm aware of the fact that I do not always When you are being criticized and it hurts, chances are big that this Maybe as a child When you came home with a 9 out of 10, they said, &quot;Hey, and why not a 10?&quot; You see? We can only take things personally And that's the moment Ooh, this hurts. Darn! I'm longing so hard for recognition, and I feel sad if I don't get it. You see? And you can also - why not? - speak up. Just tell the other one &quot;Hey, I'm in the middle of my story here, and you just walk away It feels as if you don't care It's not nice.&quot; By opening up, by being vulnerable, by telling what you feel you increase the chance and take your needs into account. Do you see what I mean? To conclude - how not to take things personally. One - it is not about me! Look at the other person's intention. If that doesn't work: two - it is about me. Give yourself empathy and speak up. Ladies and gentlemen, please, pretty please, but I really do hope that you will take within the next hours and days. Only if you do, you can test out Imagine, just imagine Wouldn't that enhance Together we could create a better world. Wouldn't that be great? And as a referee, Who doesn't like 20 euros to learn Show me hands. Show me hands. Oh, so many. Who still wants the 20 euros now? Who still wants the 20 euros now? Who still wants the 20 euros now? And who still wants them now? Why do you still want these 20 euros? (Audience member) People may attack you, They can crumple you up with their words, But remember: whatever they do or say, you will always keep your value. Thank you. (Applause)