Shalom and good evening, this is TV7 Israel And in today's top stories; vs Hezbollah that does not guarantee the IDF's Qatar confirms that it has asked Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to prevent Iran's nuclear ambitions. with the IDF deepening its achievements on the lowering the number of projectiles which it fires recent days - Hezbollah has lowered the number of from its daily average of 150 projectiles - to 80 munitions fired at Israeli communities, alert and adhere to the IDF Home Front Command's does not provide for hermetic defense. A reminder of merely five rockets toward Central Israel direct hit by a rocket in the vicinity of the we received reports about rockets that struck, in contrast to what you see here, are small casualties. At this scene, I can confirm that rather a direct strike by a rocket with a heavy part of the building is part of the engine (of consequently sparking an electric pole ablaze. From this location, six casualties were evacuated to MDA (paramedics), there is one casualty in light condition. Meanwhile in Jerusalem; Prime Parliament plenum yesterday, during the course ingredient for victory in the multi-front in contrast to various allegations, that the all efforts to reach a negotiated solution to include the release of the remaining 101 hostages it is not pleasant to hear it, but hear it: what is said here in this hall today, Hamas - Now everyone knows it. The Americans, who are say this. This is what Kirby, the spokesman for the US special envoy for the Middle East says The obstacle,&quot; the deputy head of the CIA says, the US Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, beginning of the war&quot;. &quot;It would be good to see&quot; - on Hamas.&quot; And the National Security Advisor, Jake that stands in the way of the hostage deal, but Jake Sullivan - &quot;What they tell the mediators all note that in light of Hamas' continued rejection demands of an Israeli surrender - Qatar, under of Hamas to leave Doha. Leaders of Hamas that Doha and as you know they move between different of what that means, but what I can tell you very created for the sake of the mediation process, office itself doesn't have any function other the moment I can confirm that they are not in Doha means. It is important to note that the remarks accurate, since the Hamas office was opened in to have been in response to a request by the the Qatari Foreign Ministry stressed that U.S., Israel have reached a dead-end. When it comes to unless we take a decision to reverse that which willingness to come into the negotiations with will hold any reason for being here in Doha, but office permanently, is a decision that you will be part of media speculations. Meanwhile - amid member of NATO, had welcomed the Hamas leadership Ankara to extradite the terrorists to the United that has murdered a number of Americans, continues hostage. And of course, that's not even to speak murdered and that is held hostage. So to the any country, look, a number of these individuals indictment for some time and we believe that they to Jerusalem, where; Prime Minister Benjamin war which Israel is embroiled in - emphasizing Evil that is led by the Islamic Republic of Iran. This factor is Iran, whose regime has engraved our three things: On the axis, on the missiles and is what Iran is. That's the threat. Regarding and a day later Hezbollah, and then the Houthis the militias in Iraq, Syria and Iran itself. battle against the Iranian-proxy Hezbollah, in terror towers in Beirut. We continue to eliminate important, with ground action to eradicate which is huge. Every day we discover another it is huge in weapons, in the means of warfare and if Hezbollah had carried out its plot, we been several times greater than the disaster we are systematically eliminating it. There is also we are coming to remove this (subtarranean) strip it may not be sufficient, but it is a necessary the north to their homes. Netanyahu also in an attempt to reach an acceptable cessation of that Israel would accept a deal that would 'an Israeli right to enforce the deal if Hezbollah Council Resolution 1701. We are currently talking settlement. The Americans are leading it. I say - out with a lot of fire. We demand the removal additional demands that I will not list here, but if there is a paper and its importance shouldn't security in the north with systematic action, not even if there is a ceasefire, no one is saying a preventive reaction, a retaliation to an strengthening of Hezbollah, and for this we are that prevents the arming (of Hezbollah) via Syria. targets in Syria. We are committed to not allowing October 6th, and it is no longer there. But we and create a security reality that allows our Beirut; U.S. Special Envoy Amos Hochstein met with which the American emisary voiced urgency for very constructive talks with (Parliament) speaker through the discussions over the last few to significantly narrow the gaps. This is a to facilitate that decision, but it's ultimately to this conflict. It is now within our grasp. capitulate to Israeli demands, Jerusalem is to Israel's existence, namely: Iran's nuclear Benjamin Netanyahu asserted to Israel's Parliament to prevent the Ayatollah Regime's pursuit of ability to thwart (Iran's) nuclear (program). It's component of their nuclear program that was the program itself, its ability to operate it under our leadership for about a decade. Iran if it weren't for the actions we took both in However, it has made progress. It progressed in areas. Nevertheless, the test is on us, on the our friend - the United States. I had quite a few Biden and with President-elect Trump just deal with the nuclear program, then all the other the so-called Axis (of Evil), and in relation to and that is why we are obliged to do it. would like to encourage you to Pray for the peace if you're blessed by our productions, which broadcast free of charge - please consider at www.tv7israelnews.com. I'm Jonathan Hessen, and God willing, we will see you during our next