Hello, dear friends, I am Brother Hu San. Today we came to Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China, and took pictures of the suburban market here. This market is very large, with many kinds of street food. Among them is pea jelly, which costs two yuan a serving. People like this kind of jelly very much. It sells very fast. The seller here is &quot;Old Sugar&quot; stall owner: This kind of sugar is difficult to buy. Is maltose a mixture of various sugars? No, it's wheat germ, barley malt, and corn germ. The sugar produced by corn sprouts is called &quot;sesame sugar&quot; , also called dingtang sugar. Its real name is white sesame sugar. It has a history of more than 5,000 years. This is maltose. Buy it and sell it here. It is medicinal wine, a traditional Chinese medicine herbal formula that can relieve rheumatism and internal rheumatism . It can relieve pain. Chongqing's &quot;Saliva Chicken&quot; is 15 yuan for a plate and free tasting for 20 yuan per pound. After purchasing the chicken, the stall owner can mix it for customers. It costs 23 yuan to add seasoning. This place processes gold and silver jewelry. The ham sausage is processed on site . The shop processes ham sausage. The processing fee for a pound of meat is 6 to 7 yuan. These are steamed and cooled here. Many customers buy them from the market. The fresh meat is brought here to be made into ham sausage. These are not steamed. If the customer wants to take it home and cook it, put cold water in the pot and cook it for 15 minutes. This is the exquisite craftsmanship of repairing watches. This is a machine. The owner of the watch stall has been repairing watches for more than 30 years. The stall owner: There is no future in doing this . It is very good. There are fewer and fewer craftsmen like you. Braised pork is made on site. Braised intestines, pork head and pork knuckles are freshly cooked and sold. , there is also chicken, depending on the variety, the price is between 20 and 30 yuan. Chengdu locals like this braised food very much. The business of this restaurant is very good, many customers here are &quot;pedicures&quot;, such as corns and calluses. This kind of craftsman can handle them Silver carp can only be seen for sale at private markets. Silver carp is very popular. A pound of silver carp is 8 yuan. This is artificially bred sweet eel . Pomelo can be tasted. Two stall owners can help peel it for 15 yuan. The price is cheap and the taste is delicious. There are too many customers buying. The stall owner said that his hands are sore and he can't peel the green bamboo shoots. They cost one yuan a pound and are very popular. Customers pick their own from the car for 8 yuan, 6 yuan, 5 yuan, 9.5 yuan. This is five-spice dried tofu for 3 yuan, WeChat payment is 5 yuan. Fresh corn is always very popular. There are three to 4 corns per pound for 4 yuan. Fresh corn is grinded on site for 5 yuan. Pancakes, WeChat payment is 42 yuan. Small yellow croaker 10 yuan for a pound of various mushrooms. 5 yuan for a plate of newly produced peanuts. You can choose from any . Goose meat is very cheap. It's only 10 yuan for a pound. This one is 29.2 yuan. 17 yuan. It's 10 o'clock in the morning. The people in the market are getting more and more popular. There are more and more bright red peppers. 2.5 yuan per pound. Chinese cabbage. 2 yuan per pound. Grapes. 4 yuan . That's all the pig's trotters are left at RMB 58. Ginger is also sold cheaply at RMB 3.5 per pound . How much does 4 pounds of freshly squeezed sesame oil cost at RMB 10? 4 yuan, which is half a catty. They sell various kinds of bread and honey steamed buns. Six loaves of bread for 3 yuan . Pomegranate for 10 yuan. 3 catties of various glutinous rice cakes, glutinous rice balls, sweet wine fermented angelica. 10 yuan for a pack of salt-baked chicken and braised goose, Guangzhou and Sichuan. Corn tortillas with a combination of flavors are very popular in Chengdu. You can see yam fragrant rice cakes in almost every market. Freshly made tortillas cost 6 yuan per pound. Every market day, many farmers come to sell the local specialty Sichuan peppercorns. Grinding flour, 7.5 yuan for a tael, 15.3 yuan for big winter melons, various flowers and green plants, 10 yuan for a pot of yellow beef from Guizhou, 31 yuan for a pound for a smaller one, 20 yuan for 12 noon, it started to rain. , we came to Chengdu West Street to eat the famous &quot;Xiaotan Douhua&quot;. I ordered a bowl of brown sugar tofu pudding and a bowl of sweet water noodles. It was the first time to eat brown sugar tofu pudding. I didn't know whether to stir it or not. I tasted the slightly sweetness along the edge of the bowl. The aroma is very strong. The noodles are quite thick, a bit like a mixture of sweet noodle sauce and chili. They are delicious and chewy.