I made respond to their comments I did it in three days You can sign up for beta testing So go ahead and click the link down below But how did I make the app? You're going to get the whole process jam back and forth with an AI in English, So let me show you that process. And first of all, I'm pulling out my smartphone Oh. Hey there. I'm building an app to help YouTubers Will you listen to everything Please? Absolutely. I'm all ears. so the app will have And then when you get to the dashboard, you will essentially Got it. Your app will have a straightforward Users will see their ten most recent could you give me Maybe speak to me in a French accent, using the English language just to get me up Please. My friend, you are about to embark on a magnifique journey You are constructing a bridge to a world YouTubers can relax and. Let your app do some magic. So allons-y and create something truly marvelous. Voila! Okay. Brainstorming with AI. Using voice but let me show you some more techniques of action before you start coding So here I am in ChatGPT and I've got the transcript The prompt I'm going to give named file, in markdown to simply lay out Okay. all in markdown, I'm going to copy that code And this is where it gets interesting, to the most advanced reasoning model from So with the roadmap pasted in above and said please give me the ultimate tech I'll need to know what to use and break the process down building one part of the app This is important that I can feed to my Okay. As you can see here, it's giving me All the tools I might need to get started. And a step by step development guide. Now that I've got a complete step by step guide to build this app, What Replit allows me to do is store so I can quickly test my app Here you simply create a Repl, which essentially is like creating You can choose a template, or for me, you'll want to do to get going with It's an excellent app, to make my app and basically build it So download this for free. Now I can go ahead and connect this SSH and then clicking Launch Cursor. Now there is a tutorial on and I'll link it down below and also on the screen, so you can go It's a little bit but once you've got it set up, that's sitting up in the cloud, that lives in the cloud And then can be pushed out and deployed so Now, the first thing I've done is copied Created a new file called roadmap.md. And pasted all of that information in so I can give Cursor I'm trying to build. Okay. The best news is this is all we need And if I hit command or control And you'll notice, because I've got the file open, it's So I can do the first prompt. And I've found in my experience rather than just simply say, to respond to their comments Way too much information So start by building step by step using So I know, for instance, the first thing Okay, so I've said using a basic design and login The app is called Comment Genie. You get Cursor Composer to work And it's going to start creating the pages right there in front of your eyes You can see it's actually adding in all I just click Accept All Now, after three days of coding back I found an absolutely awesome By the way, way more advanced for me. I basically have a front end, back I need to run this app. I've also got the setup instructions, I asked the Composer to generate for me so I'd know the commands So here and run these commands This is the back end. And then we click Paste those commands in and boom You can see the back end is working. You can see the front end is working. And if I command click Oh, and look at that. Okay, there's no formatting whatsoever. This looks absolutely rough as heck. But don't worry, to introduce styling and awesome But first let's let's just check it works. Okay. That's good. When I click continue, I get logged in I can see everything's here. But it doesn't look great. Yeah, And this is where my next tool comes Again, I'm going to link down below in the description. And if you're enjoying what you see so that more people will hopefully see it in coding, because I'm always doing tutorials Okay, v0 is brilliant ship ideas, products This is essentially your front end graphic designer I'd like a nice comments, all in their own charts, And it's going to go ahead and create a And look at this. It's Pretty cool stuff. So I gave the AI more context This. Use a great video. This is kind of what I'm looking for, you can get exactly what you want. It's even giving me a regenerate button. So this is the bare bones I love the design. So in order to get this into Cursor and I copy everything from v0. Now, in order to get this beautiful design Style my. And then at tag dashboard, that I want to style correctly, And then paste in the code from v0. okay. Cursor Hit enter generating a brilliant style Okay. And within moments it's created a beautiful looking style And it's actually in real time and here to make it all And when this process is finished, And all it requires A beautiful dashboard has been created and those replies and the whole dashboard than it did before. This app is now fully working, Now before I was ready to fully ship And that's where Midjourney comes in. Now you can use any AI image generator, And look at this. After a few prompts inside Midjourney, I just said logo comment Genie. Also logo vector, comment Genie. And eventually it landed on this rather I was really happy with this, and download the image here, And then over here will refresh There is my logo, nicely inserted to get it in there. A nice looking log in with Google button This is taking me just three days and a bunch of AI tools below to show you how to do this, You can use Replit and testing it on your local machine If you wish, you can use cursor with cursor Composer Essentially, you simply go ahead and jam back It does the heavy lifting with you That can give you beautiful design ideas look absolutely incredible. Midjourney help me generate an app logo in no time at all And also a mysterious looking wizard Very nice. couple of extra tips to make I was using the YouTube data API a lot to do the calling of comments You can actually copy And then go to Composer and type at docs, and you can add a new doc So Cursor is bang up to date Now I can just say something using at YouTube Data API, as I wish, but it'll always be up to date And that is a killer feature of Cursor. Another final thing that I did Composer at Codebase, the whole of the code Make a nice, easy to understand, README.md file. A readme file is generally what developers just to explain what it does, and also what technology it's using, So this is a really helpful command just to create something And then for deployment so beta testers can sign up and use it, link is down below. I just typed in codebase, make a docker compose yaml file and Dockerfiles to build this app easily. Now if you don't know what Docker It helps you to build apps so they can run on any machine. Either your local machine So you can actually host this app. Now I create a Linode to host the app. It's essentially a machine in the cloud It's really easy to use and I've mentioned this in previous videos Link will be down If you want to try Linode so you can choose your OS distribution I like to go for a select a region wherever you want in the world. And then I choose the basic plan, a machine where I can essentially upload Now, doing that is a little bit ask AI. It'll tell you exactly how to do it. Linode, otherwise known as Akamai. Absolutely brilliant for hosting websites I've shown you in this video. So once I had everything built. And it took me about three days As I was trying to do That thing is complex, I then log in to my Comment Genie app As you can see right here and I can simply check this So what about this one? Love you! Now I can either go with the suggested It's going to make me a new comment. Yeah, that'll do very nicely. I can click post reply This is all very good. But what about when you start such as a big shout out to Michael Wagner, supporter of the app And Michael says, I can already tell you that this is going and he's actually got back in touch because he replied to a comment YouTube interface, and it would be good I'd already replied, well, of course, using Cursor Composer, I know that's called mai.py. Make it so that the API checks If a YouTube channel owner before displaying it, look at that file, generate a new update to that file It really is as easy as that If you're building and testing an app, that's live and deployed, And it does all the work for you This kind of stuff is super powerful. I'm not going to say it's easy, and it'll just take a few hours It certainly won't. Well, for now, and we're already And there's also Replit agent that I did try out, by the way, but it fell over It just just wouldn't do it. So I had to work through step by step with Cursor Composer I hope you found the ideas I know it's been a rather technical one, this one, do let me know in the comments down below Maybe if you think of a better way to build the app than what Because I'm all ears and I'm actively making this app right that I can optimize either And also sign up. There is a link down below It is completely free Enjoy.