The 2001 holiday season was a very special That was when the Gamecube launched, along be timeless Nintendo classics, all in the And let me tell ya, it made for one legendary I spent many-an-hour playing Luigi's Mansion imagine. Then one week we all went on a trip to see on the way so I could pick up the third piece a weird little game called Pikmin. See, I had read all about Pikmin in Nintendo I was really interested in all the new, experimental So I brought my Gamecube along with me on doing something and I was alone in the empty I had no idea that the moment I hit that power love affair. Now, I love a good movie. Or a good book, or a song. But to me, nothing matches that fuzzy warm really clicks. That quiet sort of elation. It's the feeling of embarking on an important And suffice it to say, on that day I connected Even from these earliest moments I could tell Over 20 years later I frequently call upon I was alone in the quiet house, which was The sky was dark with storm clouds and the and snug. The glow of Christmas was still resting on Everything was good. In retrospect, it was one of the happiest Rarely have I ever felt so content. The opening hour or so of Pikmin-and especially instills within me a deep sense of nostalgia It brings back the sights and smells of that of wonder and rightness. The funny thing is though, despite that experience, important the Pikmin series would be to me. For a while I didn't pay it much heed at I was so busy with school and friends and 2 when it came out. I didn't grab a copy until a few years later store. But that game ended up blowing me away. And over the years, I found myself returning The more I played them, the more my enjoyment and finally complete bliss. I mean I'm serious, since then I've grown Pikmin is one of my happiest happy places. When I'm in a terrible mood, I can boot feel loads better. I did make a video detailing why I love Pikmin To REALLY tell you what I love about the formula, And I'm talkin' DEEP. And what better way to dig deep than with game? In a sense, I'm starting a new series right My first Big Fat Review was on Breath of the to break open a game and examine every piece It was an exhausting and difficult experience, I was done, I realized there was no reason ANY game that I truly adore. There are so many Nintendo games I hold close to analyze and critique in great detail. So why not dig into my gaming past and start Breath of the Wild may have technically come since I decided to make Big Fat Reviews a good fit. There are few games I love more. Few games I'm more intimately acquainted Few games that hit me quite so hard in the A couple notes before we begin. We will be working our way through the game, at, but don't think of this video as a strategy I'll be talking about enemy strategies, and more for the purposes of studying how Also, very experienced players might be tempted enemies, citing the perfect no-death tricks I mention some tricks, but for the most part will experience them. I look at them with their intended design Also, there are a million different ways to in the end I've only got my own experiences Basically what I'm trying to say is, I don't people yelling at me about how I'm doing There's always a better way, and finding In some cases I've found those ways and this isn't a guide), and I'm sure in plenty As you'll see especially in the footage Consider this an EXPLORATION. A deep dive into the experience as a whole. How it's designed, how it makes me feel, Well, we've got a heck of a lot of ground My wonderful friends, I'm extremely pleased Meet Captain Olimar, from the planet Hocotate. One day he's flying through space, presumably sort of errand, when he passes a liiiiittle And suddenly...KABLAMMERS! The S.S. Dolphin is smacked by an asteroid and sent The ship breaks apart, its pieces scattering When Olimar comes to, he finds his beloved Thirty parts of his ship have broken off and of them back if there's to be any hope of Problem is, his Hocotatian body can't handle and his environmental suit only has thirty Fortunately for him, right next to the Dolphin out a curious little sprout. And when he plucks that sprout, suddenly he's part plant and part creature. Because of its similarity to the pikpik carrots He comes to learn that there are different and instructed to carry objects, which of parts. So he's got thirty days to harness this can get off the planet before asphyxiating. Seeing one colorful Nintendo character run enough, thank you very much. It's a relatively simple story, very much games with. Bowser kidnaps Peach and Mario's got to The Kremlings steal DK's banana hoard and Olimar crashes his spaceship on an unknown to repair it. But despite being simple I feel like it manages stories. The stakes are much higher. Is Peach ever in any real danger? Doesn't seem like it. What will happen if DK doesn't get his bananas Well, he'll probably have to go out and I mean don't get me wrong, that'd be a Pikmin is a colorful game about cute little Olimar is a silly looking little guy with spaceship straight out of The Jetsons. And he has been stranded somewhere far away no hope of being rescued. And if he doesn't accomplish his goal in to him, in no uncertain terms. This silly little man, surrounded by these and die on this bright, beautiful planet. It's not going to win any awards for poignancy, of Pikmin is a surprisingly personal one. Olimar is the sole character, so everything That includes all of his observations, which Whenever you come upon or collect a ship part Some of these blurbs offer insight into his mention his children and how much he misses Then at the end of every day he blasts up retiring. These entries also serve to inform the player. It's actually very clever how the entries If your red Pikmin encounter fire, he talks If you accidentally kill a bunch of your Pikmin of the event. This is a really nice little detail because of the game's mechanics, but it's given of the character's own observations. That's extremely clever, if you ask me. And the dynamic nature of these entries makes At the end of the game your log book might Back to the main point though, Olimar's like his chances of survival and how he misses It's extremely humanizing to know that at back up into orbit for the night, he spends thoughts before resting up for the next difficult In his effort to avoid hostile nocturnal creatures, exact edge of space. We don't ever see him in his ship, but it's stares up at the stars, longing to be among All he wants in the entire world is to go The funny thing is, since I tend to blast of log entries I never read until it came And I gotta tell ya, some of these entries And it's so interesting-you're playing guys and collectin' all the stuff, and all living through absolute hell. Pushing himself to the edge of his capabilities. Constantly worrying about his oxygen supply. Coming closer and closer to losing hope entirely. Olimar's world may seem fantastical to us, a spaceship and all that, but through his your average working man, trying to support He's not a chosen hero, or an awesome bounty have any kind of special powers... He's just a husband, and a father. He's not fighting for the safety of the He's fighting for himself, and his family. His motivation is purely personal. And I think that makes Pikmin a pretty special And it makes Olimar one of the deepest and non-RPG games. It's true, this isn't the only Nintendo Link and Samus always find themselves in genuinely where the lives of countless people are on But even when Ganon or Mother Brain or whoever universe, et cetera, what that might actually I feel like it's a little easier to detach even though the danger and death and all that Destroying the WORLD? Yeah, that's a pretty big deal. But to me, it's the personal stories that It's the small scale struggles that really So it's funny that even though Pikmin isn't other Nintendo games have been QUITE serious story sticks with me more than most of them. Maybe even all of them. Even beyond the actual story as it's told and interesting. Nintendo has a few other sci-fi series, but It's SORT OF sci-fi because it's about doesn't exist, though its setting is almost All of the gameplay takes place among rocks to the planet. It creates a sort of juxtaposition that I Over the years I've taken great interest the natural world, because they feel so separate Thematically you can't get more opposite the cold, empty dark of space, and bugs crawling sunlight. And yet exploring strange alien planets is Anyway, that's a tangent I don't have Pikmin's sci-fi-but-not-really-sci-fi theme. Over the years I've ALSO grown to really very well may be in some part BECAUSE of Pikmin. It's one of the reasons Minish Cap might It's the reason movies like The Secret World me. Really I just love seeing the world up close--both a certain extent. It highlights the simple beauty that we often it is also just very peaceful and elegant. Pikmin clearly works hard to capture the more it to us from the perspective of a much smaller I'll talk more about the visuals as a whole environments were built with realism in mind, Not only is this a space man walking around and cartoon creatures walking around a stunning place. They could have easily made the environment Pikmin and all the other creatures and it But aiming for the actual, realistic beauty and makes it fun to imagine that these weird your backyard, just out of sight. And you know what else I love about Pikmin's Just how weird and creative it is. If Olimar were a human on a planet that happened don't know if I would like it nearly as Or if the Pikmin were little helper robots, on real world animals. Just about anything a game can do to differentiate Olimar is an alien, and he's tiny. The Pikmin are weird little plant-creature There are some animal influences but most alien themselves. And that's despite the fact that--and here's I mean it's never explicitly stated in any Earth. Its continents are the same and it's filled and bottles and such. But if it's Earth, then where are all the Well it seems to be some sort of post-apocalyptic But even if that's so, why are there so Giant beetles that shoot rocks? Snake birds? Weird, round, bipedal little spotty things? Where did they come from? Has it been so long that they've simply That doesn't seem very likely for a number The whole thing is just bizarre, and really It's exactly the kind of creativity that Even when I know there's probably no good just thought it would be fun to make it that And it makes the scenario that much more interesting more traditional. Back to the way the game looks, though. After this many years, graphics in ANY 3D that's especially the case with graphics It's just the way of things. It is true that to a degree at least, Pikmin as a result feeling a little dated down the The texture resolution in particular does on the original Gamecube hardware. Clearly the devs were very limited by that But all the footage you're seeing is being and lighting improvements, it's easy to visual style are simply SUPERB. Details that were a little hard to catch on is at times even breathtaking. The world has been beautifully crafted with It's obvious that the dev team spent a lot photographs of plants and rocks and such and The leaves have a realistic shine to them. The ground is covered in grass and leaf litter. If you angle the camera right you can see And beyond realistic modeling and texturing, effects that imbue the game with an extra At the beginning of each day there's a morning The shadows of the trees high above you cover I'm willing to bet that even if you don't still have a huge impact on how the game feels It's true that even at its best, this is Compared to titles that would come later-even some visual elements of Pikmin a little plain. Especially going back to it after playing which lends to the occasional feeling that demo" for the Gamecube. I used to hold the relative plainness against it all is running on an emulator, I've come No matter how you look at it, the game's And you know the devs accurately imitated when it all starts looking more and more like It's as rough around the edges as you'd expect it, it still manages to nail what it's going And what it's going for is the beauty and world. More visual details to cover. There aren't nearly as many man-made objects later games, but the ones we do get are rendered This adds a ton to the realism aspect, which post apocalyptic world and the juxtaposition such a realistic backdrop. Then by today's standards the water doesn't sort of active physics, but I remember being day. The surface of the water has this shimmering It gave me one of those "Wow, now THIS is moments. Also really nice are the lighting and atmospheric They give the different environments their about the visual styles of each area later Individual creature designs are also a topic models are solid, if not groundbreaking. On a technical level it's once more clear However the DESIGNS are simply terrific in Generally the larger enemy creatures are the more to them. Olimar and the Pikmin don't have a ton of they're very small. When designing them it was important to make recognizable enough to see at a distance. In fact that brings up a good point about the theme is small creatures trying to survive Olimar and the most extreme setting zooms Obviously there's a functional purpose to very reminiscent of a real time strategy game, Most of the action is done with a cursor, around you. The great thing about Pikmin though is that top-down camera, but it's not completely You've got full 360 degree movement and in and out. This wide, downward viewpoint is obviously the game thematically by making Olimar and The game really is from Olimar's perspective, at his level could make sense. But instead we're never allowed to forget Zooming in the camera is fine if you want you're going to be zoomed out to the second see what's going on around you. So the perspective is almost always that of bug man moves around a garden that to him very small. The scope of the game is simultaneously grand And here is where we start to see that the runs through the whole Pikmin experience. Speaking of Olimar and smallness and moving Speaking of PIKMIN. Let's talk about playing the game of Pikmin. What IS Pikmin, for the person watching this but this video auto-played after my Breath able to change it to something else yet? Well I'll tell you. As I said, real time strategy games used to the game, because you could say that it was But even today I think we take for granted Instead of commanding your units from an omniscient wherever you like to control as much of the a character, and narratively HE is the one You've got a map you can bring up with info itself is locked to Olimar. Unless they're idle or engaged in some task, are then locked to Olimar as well. They follow him around, and this itself was With a model such as this, acting as something 3D action game, an issue for the devs, obviously, A mouse controlling a cursor offers the most a thing isn't exactly practical on a traditional So as with the units, the answer was to lock He's the one giving the commands. Controlling the movement of a character AND should be complicated and tricky, yet it works If you push the stick just a little, only its position. Push the stick all the way and both the cursor It sounds like it would be awkward controlling a little practice when I first got the game, me. Even all these years later and without playing it feels pretty natural. Instead of selecting and issuing orders to units onto tasks is throwing them. The purpose of the cursor is to allow you This is yet another clever twist on the RTS The act of throwing Pikmin very well might of the controller limitations and the character-locked opportunities. It does limit how far you can send a unit but it allows for placement with speed and You throw a Pikmin, it lands where you threw and release while running, which gives you Of course the space between Olimar and the anything in the way a Pikmin's trajectory Naturally a throw involves height, which means of verticality in its level design. Pikmin can be thrown up onto ledges or across In the same way that the game is something game and an RTS, you might even say it's Unaided, Olimar can only fall, but you'll Pikmin up and over and across and onto and The Pikmin do what you can't, so it's A real time strategy action adventure platformer I mean, those are all the rage these days, One other way to control the Pikmin at your By using the C-stick you can move your whole This is extremely useful when you need to take the time to throw individual Pikmin, everyone after an enemy. It's also just good when you're navigating a little bit so they don't fall off a ledge It's another thing that just makes the controls for a pseudo RTS played on a regular controller. There are a few issues with the controls however. Throwing Pikmin in this game can feel a little later games. It seems that in order to be thrown, a Pikmin when you're on a slope or moving around as you might like. I haven't confirmed this but sometimes it "storage," where you'll hit the button, available it will THEN throw, and of course at the same spot anymore. It just feels a little inconsistent at times. One issue is with the design itself. Considering how important it is to use the it's strange that there's no good way any given time. The game tells you what color will be thrown your Pikmin will kind of sort themselves temporarily It's a little useful, but awkwardly trying pain, especially when you've only got a Really the best way to do it is to dismiss This sorts them out so you can grab who you It certainly works, but it's an extra step like combat. And when you don't have a lot of sorting off ledges or into water or make them start you don't want them to or just make them It's not too fun. Trouble managing colors just might be one Now, before moving on from the controls, I Gamecube controller is only one way to play The Wii version introduced pointer controls. Personally, I've almost exclusively played a ton to say about the pointer controls. They detach Olimar and the cursor, allowing from much further away. Really, they make combat--and as a result, For the sake of conversation though, the two I've heard of some small changes, but nothing this review doesn't match the experience Fortunately, regardless of which version you controls work most of the time, and the gameplay And one thing that REALLY makes the game and do is the concept of... (this is a really design pillars) ...AUTOMATION. Automation is what allows this twist on RTSes omniscient viewpoint of most if not all RTSes. If you throw a Pikmin near an object that that object automatically until that interaction The same goes for pushing a Pikmin INTO an a Pikmin is idle and a compatible object comes If this is something moveable, Pikmin will carry the object as denoted by the numbers the way back to either their onions or the or a ship part. If the object is a breakable wall, they'll If it's a bridge, they'll build it. If it's a box, they'll push it. And of course if it's an enemy, they'll Sure, it's nice that in a traditional RTS you want, but there are upsides to this more You're not required to constantly scroll is going. There's pretty much just the one destination just throw and they go. If you throw at an enemy and they down it, it back. This is nice and simple, and only really requires is open, which is actually a great system Sometimes getting a ship part back is a challenge clock. Sure, every once in a while it can feel SLIGHTLY they're doing a task, and if they finish nothing to carry back to base you've got the end of the day. But for the most part the automation does they do it all on their own. And the combination of automation and your the whole Pikmin concept. (Automation of control limitations... Sounds like a rap, that's pretty cool. *laughs*) UNIQUE this style of gameplay is. Olimar is the character you control, yet he He can punch to do a tiny bit of damage to It's not going to get him out of any real really worth doing. Therefore we must rely on making the Pikmin This means that you're managing tasks more But the fact that everything is tied to Olimar entity means this is something of a middle the units." It's "the player AND OLIMAR and the units." To help a Pikmin or give it new orders you and throwing mean everything. And of course it's not just your units you bar, so protecting yourself is also key. These are a lot of elements you just wouldn't wonderful immediacy to the gameplay as well It's much easier to connect with a little The MOST important thing about Pikmin's THEM. Forget the game design philosophy and all a Pikmin at a thing and having it do whatever Pikmin so much, I think. It just feels good. In PARTICULAR I love how they carry things If everything just automatically went into any old game. Needing to carry things back to base is so But carrying everything myself would be tedious, their weird little ant trail way makes them If I take out a bunch of enemies and find spoils, it's a very victorious and accomplished And I think one really important thing to because it satisfies on a few levels; it's I can be pleased that I've earned these whisked away back to base, and I can also they're carrying all this stuff. Watching them gather up your rewards is a It's one of the things that makes even the I've got like this deep, soul connection with There's a really important moment early On the first day your job is to start with to at least twenty so you can grab your ship's I'll talk about the area in depth later, and you learn about how the whole Pikmin thing You make a Pikmin carry a pellet. You find a five pellet, which naturally requires feels nice. It feels like you're making progress. But then, once you get at least twenty Pikmin and pick it up and start making their way The first time I played the game, there was Something about seeing all the little leaves Something about seeing the final result of It was both visually satisfying and mechanically that would eventually grow into my absolute And the funny thing is, I've played the I remember at least one or two of them having well. It's kind of this "woah" moment. And while nothing will ever be quite like Pikmin carry stuff never goes away. It runs through the entire experience, even To make one final and very important point As with an RTS, the entire point of being something else is to open up and encourage When looking at the design philosophy behind the games up. In an RTS you're usually fighting against why you need to be efficient. But that's not the case in Pikmin, so why Enter the day system. You're allowed to explore the planet one You begin in the morning, and thirteen minutes versions at least) the day ends. Dangerous nocturnal creatures all come out launch into space and hang there until morning. Additionally, as I mentioned already, the thirty days or Olimar will run out of air Narratively this is all terrific because it None of it is arbitrary, it doesn't just you to deal with it. These limitations were set by the designers, Oh, well of course each day is limited, the Right, nocturnal creatures at night, got to He's running out of air, limited days, better It makes me so much more willing to work within of perfect narrative and mechanical cohesion. Naturally, these limitations encourage you You've got thirty ship parts to get, and poor captain is to meet an early demise. So like I said, multitasking and time management Because of Pikmin's automated processes, is a particularly good one for casual speedrunning. Maximizing your efficiency requires fully and enemies and Pikmin behaviors and whatnot, your strategies. Fortunately for us, whenever Pikmin finish a little chime to let you know. It doesn't matter where you are in the level it, and I think that's very good design. It's one small way to keep track of what's everywhere at once. Even with that bit of help though, so much in your head as possible. You've got to be aware of what needs to each thing is going to take. You've got to keep track of where your Pikmin with some task or other so you can plan when whatever they opened up. There are so many different ways to go about One very exciting aspect of playing Pikmin quickly, but without too many casualties. Because it's easy enough to just plunge but lose too many Pikmin and you'll have you time. And of course plenty of people prefer to do For them, efficiency MUST be combined with (We'll of course be talking more about combat Now, funny enough, I must admit that basically Unless it's your very first time with a the slower side when you play, there's almost day mark. I FREQUENTLY criticise games for putting systems don't require as much engagement as they Take Luigi's Mansion 3 for example. Collecting money in that game is a ton of to do with that money, the collecting lost I no longer felt that it was worth trying In theory, Pikmin SHOULD be the same way. I SHOULD feel that hurrying at all is simply I SHOULD feel that this is a great example After all, I've never been much of a score I don't often enjoy coming up with my own challenged by a game that's properly balanced. And yet, Pikmin is different. Somehow, my friends, my precious Pikmin is And this is one of the things I love most It doesn't REQUIRE super efficient playing, It doesn't necessarily reward it, but being This is because the game gives you the tools It provides a relaxed environment where there's you're encouraged to be fast you're not The atmosphere is a weird combination of chill example of extreme opposites working together, just meshes with me--that makes Pikmin one The levels are beautiful and serene, and I the world, so sometimes I'll just take my But other times I'll be darting through place, savagely attacking the local creatures. Nothing is more thrilling than trying to get timer is counting down, especially if it's know you could easily come back down and grab I really mean it, there are fewer things more seat, cold sweat pouring from your brow, watching part inches closer and closer... Getting that last piece before the end of No one sets that goal for you. Using up an extra day isn't a problem. And yet, when it comes down to it, completing When you start setting little goals for yourself, game. It feels so rewarding to finish a day with or to pull off a particularly tricky part to beat your personal record for number of Even if you don't go into the game expecting of fall into them. You look at the map and you go, "You know... this area today..." And boom, suddenly you've got a goal. They just happen naturally, all these little what I find so fun about it. I feel like it's a good example of emergent laid out by the developers, but comes about together. I've spent a lot of time wondering why I in Pikmin. I mean I understand why it's less stressful time limits. It's like I said, I'm not really at risk But why do I want to go quickly anyway? Why do I set all these little micro-challenges Well I found my answer playing Stardew Valley. That game uses a day system as well; and actually, Sound familiar? The overall serene atmosphere in Stardew Valley chill to the Nth degree. And yet by breaking the gameplay up into these to get as much done as possible during each Every individual thirteen minute chunk of Feeling like I accomplished an absolute boatload If I don't get to do one or two things I out there's no massive penalty, so there's to motivate me to do better. On top of that, your farm is critiqued after Two years is a long time and there's no you can get critiqued as many times as you back of my mind as I play. It's another thing that ENCOURAGES faster doesn't DEMAND anything of me. So that of course creates a desire to pack This is probably one of the reasons Stardew This perfectly mirrors my experience with find so enjoyable about it. It's the low stress environment that makes it's the fact that the gameplay is broken peaceful atmosphere that puts me in the right If you took away any of these elements, I strongly. And I will admit it's a little weird how Normally I HATE that kind of structure in Yanking you back to base every time you accomplish was one of the things that seriously brought I usually hate missions, I hate being interrupted. So why is Pikmin--or Stardew Valley for that Well I think it comes down to all those elements like I said. But I think it might also have to do with day. I'm not tasked with accomplishing one thing, If that were the case, I would NOT be a happy That feels like it takes too much control You are indeed playing on the game's terms, done. But like I said earlier, the day system feels There's a REASON the day is about to end, time. More importantly though, what happens during If I want to wander around at a leisurely up, I can do it. If I want to just sit on my tuchas and spend the music, I've got that right! And of course if I want to see how much I there you go. Whether it's going after this ship part in the area or bringing down one big boss mine. The level is my playground. And because what happens is up to me, that to base" thing. The day system and the non-linear levels create my final goal of the day, whatever it may If a day or a level or a mission or whatever get any of that fun nail-biting stuff. Another way the game encourages you to perform of each day. This is a simple thing, and maybe even an Most games that use similar reports are much To keep using Luigi's Mansion as an example--by are not similar in the slightest--Luigi's section, and afterward you get a big summary you collected. Luigi's Mansion 2 is broken up into even you something similar, even adding a ranking Luigi's Mansion 3 is the longest game in structure it also encourages exploration and so there are naturally no summaries to speak It just doesn't make as much sense to include Since you're not completing concrete missions, you reports. But since the game is broken up into so many We would survive without them, since you're like that, but it's yet another thing that own goals and challenging yourself. It makes it easy to see exactly how well you for future days and track your own increasing As for hard data, mainly this report tells many died and how these numbers affect your Which reminds me of yet another thing that of ties in with this whole efficiency thing. The process of killing enemies and using them In theory this is a really interesting idea to do well in battle, and I SHOULD have a Thing is, I can't speak for everyone, but a lack of Pikmin has EVER been an issue. I've simply never lost so many that I had If I did experience some catastrophe that easy to just head to the Impact Site and sprout So really, this is a missed opportunity to it. The process of raising my numbers when I play And yet...it is. This is very likely just a me thing, but I stops being satisfying to add to my numbers. Even if I don't NEED those extra Pikmin, something with every body I collect. And when I defeat a boss or a large group to the onions before the end of the day and It's a weird mental thing that I can't about, because it just adds another layer Seeing how many Pikmin I can sprout becomes it gives me something to do even when my official Now even when I've grabbed the last part extra Pikmin I can sprout before the sun goes And because of that end-of-day report, it's little spike when my troop brings something And aiding in this whole system is how even you exactly how many Pikmin you have at your Right there in the HUD you can see how many the field, and how many you have in total. This last number is terrific, because it doesn't when the Pikmin bring a creature to their up. As long as you're paying attention, your that one tiny way. Before we leave the subject of numbers, even I sprout, AND I don't end up using most at the end of the game feels like a big deal. It gives you all of your totals and this acts Compare the number of days you spent to the are your bragging rights. The game even has a little leaderboard across can compare your different runs. Again, I'm not generally much of a score is a ton of fun. You can take a bunch of extra time to sprout your total days. You can try to burn through the game, but casualties and then picking up all the bodies It's a total balancing act. And all of this combined--the process of collecting day system, the reports, EVERYTHING. It creates this wonderful balance of relaxation It breeds motivation without pressure. It makes for an experience that I just can't It's a gameplay hook that has hooked me if it's EVER gonna let go. There is one more aspect of the time management yet. It's the fact that at the end of the day, not in your party are left behind and eaten If you forget where some Pikmin are, or they or if they're carrying something back to gone. You even have to watch a little cutscene of This leads to some frantic last-minute sprints the game offers an exciting experience based through any real visual excitement. It's just a little space man running and calling range of a little plant thing before Pikmin are infinitely replaceable. On paper, it's not the most exciting thing And yet somehow nothing in the game feels Nothing feels more important than saving those Nothing fills me with horror and dread more there's a group still standing in front But why? I've talked about how the numbers don't Even if you're going for a quote unquote stray Pikmin? Why is leaving a Pikmin behind so much worse They're both functionally the same! Well, in order to explore this further, first This, right here, is a Pikmin. It is adorable and I love it. When your Pikmin bring spoils back to one than 100 Pikmin on the field, the onion will on the creature or pellet. This process is a little slow. It takes a good few seconds for a sprout to few seconds more before you're able to pluck Thus, it is beneficial to consider this timing You pluck a Pikmin by pressing A, and if you around and plucking until there are none left. Even when I first played this back in 2001, feature. It seems exactly like the kind of thing that the sequel. Very small annoyance though, the camera zooms takes too long to zoom back out again. Kind of a pain when you're trying to get You can have up to one hundred Pikmin on the stored in their respective onions. And it's funny, you can kind of cheese the you just keep your number at a hundred. Let's say for example you need more yellow yellow onion. You can just pull out a bunch of reds, wait then put the reds away and pull out your brand It kind of calls into question the necessity But we'll be digging into that whole concept So it's great to pluck new Pikmin and have patience. People unfamiliar with the series will notice head. If these were simply aesthetic, I could definitely But even beyond firmly establishing that your these serve a very clever mechanical purpose. After a few minutes of being in the ground a bud. A few minutes more, and it will turn into Waiting too long after that will turn it back Bud Pikmin are faster than leaf Pikmin, and all. This means they can easily keep up with you they'll carry things back to base more quickly The higher its maturity the better a Pikmin For the record, I think each of these stages I feel like I should probably have a favorite, I love them all. So much. Now, while this system of gradual, in-ground noting that in all of my time with Pikmin I'm sure if I were very deliberate in sprouting I would have lots and lots of flowered Pikmin. But for some reason I just never seem to find Maybe it's the fact that you have to check go back to being leaves. Most likely though, it's because there is Throughout the world you'll find these globs Pikmin that drink this nectar will instantly This isn't necessarily a free lunch though. Once a Pikmin begins drinking a glob of nectar, This happens very quickly, and it doesn't from it. Also the window for a Pikmin to begin drinking no more can drink even though the glob hasn't Therefore, the best strategy is to use your a glob at once. It's almost a guarantee that some Pikmin will Most often many will miss it. Fortunately though, it's not very difficult this system. It turns each glob of nectar into something This nectar makes the gradual maturity system that we have both options at our disposal. The ground thing is an interesting idea, at a Pikmin's plantlike nature. Ah, here's one thing about flowers though. Even when a Pikmin is plucked, a flower won't Naturally, if your flower Pikmin dies, then Pikmin into a flower Pikmin to take its place. Even beyond that though, anytime a Pikmin chance of losing one maturity level--either I like this because it does encourage the back Pikmin before an enemy has a chance to Like I said from the get go though, this whole mechanic had never been invented I don't think Yet for some reason, despite the relatively I appreciate the mechanic a disproportionate I don't know, something about it is so fun. It's just another thing to consider while Just one more little tool to help you feel stronger. And, more importantly than ANYTHING, it gives enjoy. If I don't know which maturity level is more all three options available at all times. Speaking of different types of Pikmin though, color. This game offers three colors of Pikmin, and The first and most basic you'll find is the Red Pikmin have the highest attack when fighting While other Pikmin have a base attack stat Maybe this doesn't seem like it would make Again, I'll talk more about combat later, of Pikmin to defeat an enemy can mean the Pikmin. And a 50% boost really is perfect; any less you'd never want to fight anything without In addition to higher attack, and perhaps being hurt at all. Fire will ignite any other kind of Pikmin, with the whistle. If you take even just a tiny bit too long, Naturally then, when moving through an area useful. Fun fact though, reds are the only Pikmin required to beat the game. There are tons of workarounds you can do, and can be avoided, enemies can be taken down FURTHERMORE, it's kind of funny how reds are don't have to contend with any fire until It's weird, right? However I've never been so bold as to do makes them useful enough to use regularly. These little guys may not be required but The next kind of Pikmin you'll find is yellow. In the context of just this game, yellows almost arbitrary in a narrative sense. The main draw of a yellow Pikmin is that it's high ledges. While it makes perfect video gamey sense for a blue Pikmin to be immune to water, as you it), I don't feel like there is anything about or an ability to travel further when thrown. It's an extremely minor gripe, considering reach high ledges and even tall enemies, but and mechanical cohesion, so I figure it's And the lack of cohesion here becomes even Pikmin's second ability. Yellow Pikmin are the only ones that can pick It's at this point that yellow really does They got all of the less obvious abilities I mean, why wouldn't ANY Pikmin be able to If reds are the strongest, shouldn't THEY Again, it's really not a problem, because it's nice that each Pikmin color gets its You need SOMETHING to make each color unique, one&quot;. I just think it's interesting to ponder. Though I will say, one thing yellows have ability-flying higher when thrown-isn't There aren't really THAT many times you I wonder if the designers felt it would be Not sure, but I feel like a couple more high useful. Fortunately the ability does help with some small when compared to future titles. They're cute though, so who cares. Finally, we've got blue Pikmin. The only thing that makes blue Pikmin unique drowning. As is the case with fire, when a Pikmin is it. If it's close enough to land, it will swim But after a set amount of time in the water Yellow Pikmin may be the weird ones and have probably have the least going for them. They have no secondary ability, and even their a game design standpoint. I'm very much okay with having an obstacle go inside. In fact, yellow Pikmin and ledges are the The designer puts a ledge or puts a body of of Pikmin, you're out of luck. It's kind of just a barrier to entry more It's fine, though I must admit it's not extremely When you're walking through water with a different from walking with them on land. Olimar and the Pikmin all move at the same There are some enemies that can only live The mechanic just isn't used in any particularly It's just sort of a reason to have another If there is one semi-interesting thing about entirely exclusive of other Pikmin colors. An area full of fire can still be navigated careful and ready with that whistle. Tall ledges are technically exclusive, but and usually all you've got to do is grab a done. But blues are the only Pikmin that can enter This means that no matter how many enemies you, nor can you bring along any bomb rocks So in its own small kind of way, the mechanic When you're wandering through a large body and that's it. It's not incredibly interesting, and future I certainly wouldn't call it bad game design, Though I will say, there is technically ONE do. If their yellow and red brethren fall into by throwing them back up onto dry land. This is an ability I forget about constantly, really come up naturally, like at all. But again, I do appreciate the mechanic, and useful if I were to try harder to utilize Not sure. Though if you want another narrative nitpick, another Pikmin but they just sort of choose interesting questions about their potential... Now, once more an extremely difficult question Which Pikmin type is my favorite? I couldn't pick between leaf, bud, and flower, Well I am sad to say that no, I have struggled Reds are cute, and they've got those little But I'm not really sure WHY they have noses, And I'm really not a fan of the color red. I kind of want to say yellow is my favorite far and it's positively adorable how they But I go back and forth on the ears. Sometimes I think they're cute, sometimes And again, why do they have ears? They don't use them to hear stuff or anything, not gonna make you fly higher. If I absolutely had to choose I MIGHT choose They don't have any ears or noses to get in But then the water mechanic doesn't necessarily And they've got these kind of derpy little It's like I'm torn on all of their facial but I also can't seem to choose one clear, I just sort of like them all equally. You hear that, my children? I love you ALL. One thing that sets Pikmin apart from basic finicky and hard to predict at first. Obviously they are still little digital units do, but it's particularly important with this quirks. For instance, you've got to learn how close Pikmin to interact with it. This is another one of a million things that Finding this exact distance seems like it quickly out of necessity and it becomes second So if you throw a Pikmin and it lands close Pikmin will engage. If a Pikmin is thrown and doesn't land within idle and sit put. If a moving object or enemy passes close enough engage. This invisible radius around a Pikmin that the "attention radius." Nothing better illustrates the attention radius This thing right here is basically a tutorial And it's pretty smart, because these are everywhere. They're the very first thing you interact all the basics--and that includes combat knowledge being combat! Awesome, right? With pellet poseys you learn how close to they'll engage. You learn that a Pikmin will automatically something has been "killed" usually it And once a pellet is on the move, if it passes those Pikmin will all attempt to grab it as Each item has a minimum carrying number and max, so once a second Pikmin grabs on, any become idle once they realize there's nothing There's also a very clear speed difference so now you know that more Pikmin equals more That's a lot to learn from one little flower. This whole system can probably be summed up close enough to the stuff,&quot; but honestly there's and lots to slowly figure out as you play. When a Pikmin would become idle, if it's him instead. And even further, sometimes a Pikmin will it can either grab on or realize there are This can string the Pikmin along lengthy distances very large object and Pikmin are getting stuck All of these things have to be considered it makes for a really interesting experience. Sometimes it can be frustrating when these nighttime abandonment when a Pikmin or group you have no idea until it's too late. Sometimes it can even feel like crummy game But I'm of the opinion that sometimes these Pikmin already exhibit a ton of personality supposed to. They have these squeaky little voices and do together when they carry stuff? It's messed up. But these extra quirks do even more to make Sure, every once in a while I might yell at But more often than not I yell at the Pikmin I treat them like they're individually responsible A red Pikmin will be carrying a pellet back it got a little too close, and the red will all I'll say is "You stupid, stupid Pikmin." This illustrates a fairly unusual concept become more emotionally attached to an AI own, even when you're talking about quirks It's very debatable whether or not this of factors to consider. In my opinion an example of a game going a which frequently had me yelling at the screen or do what I wanted. This made the game something of a slog at Trico feel much more like a real creature. Fortunately Pikmin never quite takes it so when quirks get in the way, so I feel like It requires that you're knowledgeable of but pretty much no matter what you do a few because they're so dumb. And this makes it feel more like they're There are many examples of this concept in Throughout the world you'll find these patches Pikmin can pluck the grass, revealing globs But for some reason, Pikmin will start plucking even if they're in your party and you didn't And they're so obsessed with the grass that get them back on track. This can cause Pikmin to fall behind without abandoned, or just as bad, eating all the You little piggies, you're supposed to share! You don't need all that for yourself! Silly Pikmin. Uh, anyway, similarly, in some cases Pikmin you telling them to. There's a creature called the Iridescent Pikmin are attracted to its shiny shell and They can't even put a scratch on the thing, In the cases of both grass and flint beetles, call your Pikmin back. They'll keep going after these things again mess things up and spread your Pikmin out This is the most uncontrollable your Pikmin that even though they're very obedient, shell are too much to ignore. Additionally there are a few other cases like You keep trying to pull them back, but even Pikmin start attacking fruitlessly. Then there are pellet poseys. Your Pikmin just LOVE to bring them down. Sometimes they'll even kill the sprouts they like to, I guess. It can be annoying, and yet I can't say It's another narrative thing that makes statistics. Don't get me wrong though; there are PLENTY as fun. Like whenever you try to bring your Pikmin Your troop spreads out behind you, so Pikmin and a pretty big annoyance. You can SORT OF control them with the swarm when you've got a hundred little toddlers Some will inevitably spill over the sides them up in groups. This doesn't feel like a behavioral quirk, know how to fix before the game went to print. I mean these Pikmin are pretty dumb when it Like I said if they're idle and no one comes sit there until the sun goes down. If they're carrying an item and their path wait for someone to open the way. But when it comes to carrying out a task they've If the way is open, they can always find their is... So if Olimar is walking along a ledge or up to make minor adjustments to their formation I mean it only makes sense. There are other annoying quirks as well. (Quite a lot of them, actually...) Often after completing a task, if you're you. But this means that when trying to grab a for it to kill the flower, and another time This is something that would be fixed in later it's a little silly this way. It's missing a great opportunity to teach an activity to produce a product, then being base. What we've got is close to representing the one throw and in the span of a few seconds. Anyway, another quirk is that the attention a Pikmin will return to you or engage with Sometimes they'll return to you after failing up one of the several other objects right This means that sometimes you'll plunge they'll very awkwardly fail to pick up many Sometimes you'll want to withdraw a lot coming out, but THAT radius for whatever reason to follow you to the ends of the earth. And another one, when a lot of Pikmin are a few of them off, often your whistle will they'll even try to return to you and you There are just a lot of little kinks like work out. One Pikmin quirk that kind of skirts the line on that's only annoying" is when they Sometimes they'll just topple over and it resume following you. This can obviously lead to abandonment, or catch up. It does give them some personality, but it with at least a little confidence. I think swarming causes them to trip more trying to control the group and Pikmin will But this final quirk is perhaps the most annoying And it's a quirk we've already talked because it's just THAT annoying. Dismissing Pikmin to sort them by color leaves The process can be incredibly annoying. Your Pikmin will sort themselves right off next to a wall they'll just mash together them all back and try again. Heck, sometimes they'll just fail to sort Like one of the colors will just NOT group Seeing as dismissing is the only surefire it's a very poorly implemented system, and by it. A feature you have to use this often should Barring the admittedly long list of examples the game works to make you feel like the Pikmin They're dumb and you have to babysit them, you need them to if you're a good enough For me, all of this personality is KEY to big reason. The visual cuteness and behavioral quirkiness very important thing: YOU NEVER WANT YOUR The statement I made at the end of the previous concepts in the entire game and certainly in this Big Fat Review, and yet I must once I assure you though, it's all related. I've spoken at length about Pikmin's general now I'd like to talk a little more about Combat in Pikmin is way more tricky and nuanced played these games realize. Combat certainly CAN be simple and easy in If you've got one hundred red Pikmin, you'll swarming them. However, you're not always going to have Part of the genius of the game is that your the more Pikmin out doing jobs, the fewer The more you've got fighting, the less you're Plus you need to use a variety of different but reds with you isn't super efficient start collecting. Reds won't even be able to fight baddies right there. As I mentioned earlier, a Pikmin will attack top of it, as is the case with performing But every enemy is different, and this is With some enemies it's all about throwing right time, and both the aim and the timing Pikmin can attack creatures on the ground, latch on, keeping them out of harm's way And when they are shaken off they can be attacked you want to call them back BEFORE they're Pikmin attacking on the ground can be stunned you'll think they're safe but they're actually This whole system of throwing and latching Pikmin from units in a traditional RTS. It's that pseudo-platforming verticality Where Pikmin land can make all the difference Sometimes there are a number of different you've just got to experiment to find what As I've mentioned, thinking on your feet You've got to be aware of where Olimar is, Pikmin are, and where you're swarming or It's a lot to keep track of, and my early There's a lot of trial and error involved like I said, every enemy is different. But even when you know the game like the back you'll still lose plenty of Pikmin from That's because Pikmin is a game of RISKS. There are some enemies that can be rushed you've got enough Pikmin to take them down, their health hits zero it can be DISASTROUS. In these cases you've got to decide if you way. Therein lies another bit of genius. Sometimes an enemy isn't too tricky to bring It's another thing to think about when managing And the more you play, the more you're going done fast. Sometimes your reward for such a strategy of extra time in your day. And other times your reward is dozens and I'll talk more about combat with specific but first I want to talk about Pikmin's Or rather, the game's SENSE of difficulty. Imagine, if you would, you are playing a shooter It uses a timed mission system. At the center of the map there's an ammo box, into it before the mission ends. If there's any ammo left in your inventory So one day you're playing and you've got a but the final 10 seconds start counting down back to your base in time. In this scenario, what do you do and how do This game provides ample ammo. In fact, you've got six or seven hundred bullets So do you make a frantic dash back to your there in time? Personally, that one bullet would not feel I would probably just let the clock run out In fact, can I just end the mission early Yeah, I'll do that. If I've got more than enough ammo, that one certainly nothing to get worked up over. To swing back around to the concept of Pikmin this is the exact same thing. In a sense, Pikmin are your ammunition. They allow you to progress through the world, Their numbers can be depleted and replenished And yet, for players like me at least, there's That difference is even clearer when I imagine are little drones. Like, imagine that they're simple little or otherwise personifying features. Then, would I make that frantic dash to save I can't know for sure, I guess, but I'm I'm sure there are plenty of people out there but I myself am a very empathetic and even And from what I've observed at least, there From here on out just know that I'm speaking For us, the emotional connection we form with the game. It can even change the gameplay itself. Pikmin is a challenging game. The combat is incredibly tricky to master, can kill your Pikmin by the boatload. But, it's a challenging game that also happens Like I said, Pikmin are easy to produce. Beyond the threat of running out of days (which only real threat to your well being is running yourself without any ammo in a shooter game. But since enemies respawn after three days never a shortage of fodder and it will never even after some sort of Pikmin extinction Even if you run out of a color of Pikmin entirely, to work with, which can be multiplied in no And yet because of how easily and constantly more whenever you want and absolute failure increases how difficult the game FEELS, especially And this is thanks in very large part to that It's impossible to see Pikmin simply as ammunition--a with. You feel that you have a responsibility to Maybe you even feel a little guilt about using Why are they so obedient? Why will they march right off a cliff if you You're grateful for their help, and you NEED Pikmin lives are you willing to sacrifice Even Olimar himself struggles with this concept, and relatable protagonist than most. In his logs he talks about being a leader, fails his troops. Their deaths clearly impact him, and this by day, wearing down his resolve... It's all silliness, it's just a video game, Unlike Olimar, I have the benefit of knowing pretend. And yet the emotional impact of their deaths I know I still feel a pang of guilt when I Pikmin are killed or left behind. It's not real guilt, I know it's just a game. But games are all about tapping into and eliciting That's what immersion is, and it's one of In my Big Fat Reviews you'll find that I frequently versus feel.&quot; There's how a game mechanic works, how you controls, how a video game PLAYS even when Then there's how a mechanic or a scenario The emotions it musters, the different senses imagination. Naturally, many people tend to lean to one But as I've said in other videos, I'm I entirely admit that FUNCTIONALLY, losing Absolutely NONE. But I FEEL bad when they die, I FEEL like to keep them safe. So even if I'm at no risk of losing the Pikmin, again and again and again if I need An enemy that won't stop killing my Pikmin If I take down a large boss enemy but lose feels like I didn't really win at all. It can take patience or practice or skill an enemy or overcome an obstacle without losing This is why zero death runs are so popular. The game's easy enough to beat, but doing a whole new level of challenge. And I can't stress enough how much I love I love how even if I know I've got hundreds I'll never even need, and even if I'm not combat strategies will still be based on losing I just love how that emotional connection I mean you could argue that losing Pikmin more does indeed cost time, and I've talked That is true, that's a real, mechanical But honestly, for me, that's such a small It's more about that emotional connection That connection dictates so much of how I And the end result of this whole concept is of different player types. Nintendo often has a hard time making games accessible enough for casual ones, but Pikmin The concept is weird and the combat can be But it's also very forgiving when it comes keep trying. And even when the casual player becomes a feeling like there's always at least some and work hard to avoid deaths. Now, I will admit, I've been playing Pikmin not as strong as it once was. Back in the day I remember restarting days in a battle. Even if I only stood to lose one or two Pikmin map was irrationally frantic, and my dismay Nowadays when playing casually I'll take shortcuts I'll be a little less careful when attacking than anything. I never restart days after disasters anymore, behind a good chunk of Pikmin without giving But believe me when I say that this has come into the series as a whole. Most of my time with this game has been spent though I may be calloused on occasion, that to some extent. It's never nice to see or hear a Pikmin die. In fact, not caring as much about their deaths to do. Sometimes I just want to play and not get some of my Pikmin die has been something of a game casually. Even at my most reckless though, even when where I simply can't be bothered to put in a little part of me that winces when I hear There's still that little feeling of dismay There's still that tiny bit of panic when think I can put them all out in time. And the fact that that emotional connection even after all this time, even when I'm TRYING My mind personifies these little imaginary and act and because of my own ability to put play a role. That personification and role-play triggers seems to be inescapable. It dramatically impacts the game and its sense it. And that's Pikmin right there, man. We can talk about mechanics all day, but the at the heart of what makes the game so fun There are many Nintendo games and series that I play. They're about the same level of fun all the a wide range of emotions. But I think one reason Pikmin is so much fun roller coaster ride. Everything is beautiful and the Pikmin are but the world is also full of dangers. It's the looming threat of the deadlier battles that really keep you on your toes. It's the triumphs balanced against the losses. It can be a relaxing game at times, and yet It can make me feel serenity and nervousness a single 13-minute day. And that's what makes it so darn engaging, There are many ways your Pikmin interact with overcome, so I think the best way to move area of the game one at a time. This will naturally lead us through the game's puzzles and all that. Forgive me if this feels a little sporadic, and pausing to address things as we come to than trying to split everything up into categories. It's nice to look at stuff in context. Also if it seems like I go into too much detail some of the basic concepts to start us off progress through each area. I'm not going to be doing a play-by-play would make this a guide, and this ain't And a BIG FAT ONE, at that! So let's start, of course, with the Impact The Impact Site is where Olimar's ship crashes It's a simple area with plants and rocks, and it sets the stage nicely. The music is extremely plucky; the melody horn instruments and what sounds like a xylophone This could easily be unintentional on the it contrasts the gravity of Olimar's situation. He wakes up and realizes he's stuck on an die in thirty days. This should warrant some sad or tense music. But the music kind of says, "Nope, you're This place is weird and surprising, and you're Deal with it!" It's spunky and bouncy and doesn't feel sporadic enough to communicate that Olimar his head. Musically this theme is actually incredibly it's stuck with me so much over the years. Being the first area of the game, the Impact player. On the first day time doesn't pass, and kill your Pikmin. You're free to just sort of poke around Right at the start the camera stays all the you to stumble upon the onion and get things It's really silly, but I used to have a I was afraid that I would get lost in this onion. No idea why. Anyway, when you find the onion it spits out increase your numbers by collecting the pellet As I touched on earlier, this teaches you you something of a taste of how a Pikmin attacks it shows you how different sized objects require the area's slopes and ledges give you an You've got these stump slopes on one side kind of weird. I think they're designed to teach you about if there's an open ledge they'll use it They're just so steep and awkward though, I wonder if they once had a different function. Oh well. Anyway, once you've got ten Pikmin you can way, which of course shows you how Pikmin It's a relatively short tutorial, seeing waiting for you on the other side of the box, day ends. There are still a few things to talk about First, I know I already mentioned how picking can't stress it enough. Even beyond the satisfaction of seeing all moment that establishes what's to come. It already feels good to pick up a bigger there's something about using TWENTY FIVE that makes you go "Woah... What ELSE can I pick up? What else can I do with these things? How many can I have???" Beside the engine though you've got this Here you learn how tricky it can be to get though it's of course not too bad when you've My favorite thing about the Impact Site though It's big and open, but there isn't really And on the far end there's a wall that your You can kind of see what's on the other And I always LOVE teases like this. I love seeing something that I can't have, back and access it. Right at the start of the game it's just Once you have all three Pikmin types you can and naturally when you return you've got no longer stands still. You'll find way more pellet posies, including can reach, and three big ones on this stump. And now is as good a time as any to talk about Throughout the game you'll find these little have your Pikmin open them up. They boost Olimar up to a higher level. Sometimes they'll boost you to a ledge that just a little shortcut, as we will see in In the latter case their usefulness is somewhat with you, but I suppose it's nice to have In the case of reaching ledges though, they're a short game the concept doesn't really have Because Olimar can't do much without the help to come up with a lot of reasons why you would this. Here, in the case of this stump in the Impact Pikmin is solved by the presence of one of These sticks are very similar functionally Once more it takes Pikmin to render them functional; the stick grow and they won't climb it until This takes a good deal longer than breaking on the job, the faster it will go. Once the stick is complete, all of the Pikmin and after that any Pikmin who are directed When paired together, the necessity of these If Olimar and the Pikmin are both able to and after that they can freely drop down, extra steps serve much of a purpose? Both geysers and sticks can be used with any that has to be unlocked. The geyser and the stick in the Impact Site up when you return, but this progression is designed it to be that way. If anything, this is just a convenient way the first day when things are supposed to Normally if you see a geyser, you can use If you see a stick, you can use it. Is this perhaps an oversimplified obstacle? If all you have to do is DO IT, and Olimar what did that really accomplish? Did the ledge really need to be there? Functionally would it be much different if I will admit, as with the functionality of little too deeply-ESPECIALLY this early game when we have many areas to go. I just like to explore mechanics from every This is a Big Fat Review after all, and it some super specific minutiae. While some genius level designer may scoff purposes, albeit relatively small ones. If an object is on the ground you can pick increase traversal time by requiring extra In a game that's all about time management, As with everything in the game, you've always take you. Secondly, including ledges and ways to traverse Objects that are just sitting there in front if you're talking about enemy bodies or something, creatively. As I'll mention multiple times in this review, the ground is kind of disappointing. Placing something up on a ledge and requiring breaks the process up both visually and mechanically. This is once more an issue of function versus Functionally, this obstacle is fairly insignificant. But I'm willing to bet that you've never Heck, I didn't even really give it much out of the game! It's only natural to look at a ledge, look makes sense. There's a ledge there, so we've got to That's because natural environments have You're gonna find objects that are higher It just FEELS right. It's something to do, something to change a little different so everything isn't so That's INTEREST. And it also gives the player agency. When designing a game it's good to include feel like they're the ones making the adventure Even something as simple as requiring them make them feel like they're accomplishing Again, more function-oriented folks may scoff If this whole entire game has taught us anything, These little details help support the overall to play. It's all just part of being a little space killer flower creatures. I will admit however, that even if I'm overall this game are weirdly useless. Like in the Forest Navel specifically, there Why would I need this geyser and this stick? You can literally just go through this little I really don't get it. Maybe a leftover from earlier in development No idea. That was...one HECK of an aside! I hope you're still with me! Anyway, you geyser and stick your way up to and it's great. MOVING ON, THOUGH! If you poke around in the area with the slope, Flint Beetle. I mentioned this thing earlier, it's the doing and rush it. It's one of the few things in the game that in your party and you're not doing anything They attack it like it's driving them crazy, And if you're trying to get somewhere, it It says a lot about the game's delightful You never know what kind of weird creature Pikmin can have a mind of their own. You can do your best to control them, but do. Getting a visit from the Flint Beetle is so there were more of them in the game, honestly. I think it would have been cool if the Flint to show off the uncontrollable aspect of your I understand that the devs wanted to keep could get on the first day. Because, there's another thing these creatures The Pikmins' attacks do nothing to the Iridescent It doesn't matter how many reds you've flinch. If you think to THROW your Pikmin however, it isn't skittering around, you'll find it over. This will make nectar and pellets pop out it burrows away. This is a lesson that some enemies will take also that curiosity and experimentation are It's very easy to watch your Pikmin trying hurt that one," and give up trying. But come at the problem from a different angle the thing, you can still get some resources As with pellet poseys, that's an awful lot and that's why I think it's a particularly GAHHH. Once the beetle has burrowed away and you've part of the level is that big open area in Starting on day eight, one of two boss creatures These are completely unique, found nowhere any ship parts. Thing is, I have very little experience with to the Impact Site well before day eight. I first saw them in the creature reel that why I never fought them. After a while I stumbled upon each maybe once supposed to replicate the encounters. I get it now though, so I was able to hunt for review purposes. And it's just so strange that the developers so easy to miss. I mean these are BOSSES, don't they take Don't the devs want us to fight them? It's possible they were experimenting with and unpredictable, potentially different through I can certainly appreciate such an idea, though opportunity to explore it here. Or hey, maybe they just had two extra bosses them so they stuck them both in the Impact Who knows. Let's talk about these two weirdos though. The Mamuta is a very strange enemy. It pounds your Pikmin using its long arms, them. As far as I know, beyond dealing damage to It can prove to be something of a nuisance a hard time replucking them fast enough, but More than anything I would say that it's an The thing just stands there looking at you feel bad about killing it (we'll touch on alien creatures a little later). It's suggested in this game and its sequel with the Pikmin. Maybe it just wants to have a pretty flower But some people have pointed out that the of those on an onion, so is it possible that Well, that's the magic of Pikmin. We'll probably never know, but we are free The Mamuta shows up in Pikmin 2, but the Goolix basically any enemy in any mainline Pikmin It's actually pretty disappointing that it game, because it's the one boss that seems Pikmin. I mentioned how blue Pikmin aren't used in enemies and collecting parts while in the much more interesting opportunity to use them. The creature itself is MADE of water, but around on dry ground. It's got these two nuclei and you have to blues will be able to get through without Another disappointment however is how laughably If you throw a Pikmin into the big nucleus, a billiard ball and does a bunch of damage. And it's not even like it's hard to do, as though it's protecting the little one billiarded. It's kind of like they had two concepts together and the idea of having to get around both even though the ideas kind of interfere Kind of weird. It's a very cool creature, so it's sad moments and takes practically no effort. I guess I can give it a LITTLE credit in the very persistently, forcing you to keep moving, than difficult. I wonder if this is all why it was relegated didn't have time to make it any better so The final thing that's different about your are now bomb rocks under the slope, which side of the boss arena. (I'll avoid another long digression and Here you'll find a little pond with a bramble (We will also discuss bramble walls later. Got to draw a line somewhere.) We already talked about the main engine, but other ship part: the Positron Generator. Procuring it requires blue Pikmin, as you'll it hostage. Pikmin is an interesting game because I'm lot, yet this one is perfectly happy to give with it. Pearly Clamclamps are a great example, as entire game. These things are very simple, but they make In fact their simplicity is their ultimate Beating them is easy as heck; just throw some will get to work on whatever's inside. After a while the Clamclamp will snap its got to call them back before that happens. Easiest thing in the world to beat Clamclamps You've always got plenty of time to blow But this creature plays perfectly into two and risk and reward. It's easy to kill a Pearly Clamclamp, but the safe way. The second a Pikmin touches its mouth, it in preparation of the snap, and that's when Depending on how they land it can take a moment course its health drops faster and faster This naturally pushes the player to take risks Instead of just throwing a few Pikmin on there up throwing at a constant rate all the way Sometimes they can take a moment to respond other side of the pearl, so this is a very And of course, even a slight miscalculation deaths. It's a terrific dynamic. It's an enemy that is devious in its simplicity. The one Clamclamp up on the bank can be killed in the water have to be attacked with blues, Fortunately two of them give you pearls when each, so losing a few of your little buds Between those and all the huge pellets in your numbers. Interestingly, when you defeat a Pearly Clamclamp enemy, but the shell keeps on working as though Pretty strange. Maybe the shell and the inner organ are separate, It's Pikmin world, that's certainly possible. Anyway, defeating the right Pearly Clamclamp and I suppose this is as good a time as any required to leave the planet. There are five optional ones, though I must One, that's such a small number of non-essential anyone to get every required ship part but the "okay" ending. (We'll talk endings later.) Like you would have to use a guide and very to fight the last boss, and who's not gonna It's a good idea in theory but it ends up Second issue, based on Olimar's descriptions, also be non-essential. I will admit, this is only a half-serious I mostly just like to point out how worthless it's funny. So as we go through every part, I will do Starting with the Positron Generator, which is to produce electricity and a different UNLIMITED power. So I'm not quite sure why Olimar needs it. But hey, I'm no tiny spaceman. And now we come to the Forest of Hope! This is exciting, because it's the first And even though it offers the player their back and peaceful. If the music in the Impact Site was spunky kind of tune you'd want to listen to whilst The world of Pikmin most certainly is a spunky about it's also beautiful and serene, and no time throwing you into that atmosphere. The Forest of Hope is a very basic level, to later levels, but because it's so basic about all there is to know about the game's If the Impact Site teaches how to play and Forest of Hope teaches everything else and The training wheels are now off. It's a bit of a maze of different paths, shortcuts to open up and make carrying things Interestingly there are places where both got free reign of an area, but nothing can I love the duality there; you can reach an path for parts it's not worth much yet. The first thing anyone's going to do when the bramble wall. This is a very basic obstacle in Pikmin, and even if the name and appearance sometimes A bramble wall is there to block your path it plays an important part in the strategic Naturally, the more Pikmin and overall attack If you've got a big Pikmin force it might them. But putting a few Pikmin to work in passing, could potentially cut your wait time to, effectively Even here, in this first little area of the Is it better to get my Pikmin on the wall to gather pellets and increase my numbers The wall doesn't take long to bring down be looking too deep into this), but I'm we ask ourselves, and I love that the game the simplest of situations. Once this first wall is down the level is pond, just waiting for someone to pick it required part because it creates endless supplies Consistent throughout the Pikmin series is who are still getting their bearings and don't get those bearings fast enough. This part isn't absolutely free though, little run in with a Dwarf Bulborb or two. Olimar mentions later that this is not merely a different species entirely that I guess Why did they decide to write this in? Especially this early in the first game? And with the most common enemies in the entire Why wouldn't they just go with the obvious I really don't know. Though it does say a lot about the Pikmin and interesting, and also a lot about the Over time and multiple games we come to see animals, and adaptations such as this are Anyway, Dwarf Bulborbs are your most basic They stick to themselves, but if anyone gets As with any enemy, Pikmin will attack them that that chomp comes FAST. It's like the very first thing they do. No wind up or anything. And once a Pikmin is being chomped, you're When the eating animation finishes, the Pikmin However until you hear that [Pikmin dying I've always thought it was pretty funny body crunching noises you hear; if you can Pikmin is saved and is none the worse for Dwarf Bulborbs become a lot more dangerous you've got a whole army of Pikmin, you can not use your swarm properly and end up losing Even a tiny enemy can and will eat the Pikmin player is not METICULOUS in taking them out. One nice thing though is that if even one Bulborb's head, it will kill it instantly. Seems like an easy enough trick, but the hit your Pikmin is now within chomping range. To prevent this chompage, the obvious answer at least one of them lands, but if the thing you're basically guaranteed to lose one Once more, even with the most basic of enemies, and risks to take. And one final thing just to make the battle Dwarf Bulborbs are very often found right lookalikes. The regular old Spotty Bulborb--the most iconic Spotty Bulborbs are nocturnal and have free to leave the surface at sundown, but they avoid detection. I think that's a very clever bit of narrative The game doesn't leave you guessing what to imagine it overrun with these things. During the day you're safe as long as they're waking them up. When dealing with one of them you don't going to town on your Pikmin because you don't already dealing with a much larger crisis, But the whole time you do, you're super to the big mama and wake it up. This teaches us about how combining enemies We could analyze individual enemies all day, not observing how enemies must be dealt with Back to Bulborbs though. Assuming you're looking at a sleeping Bulborb at Pikmin combat in a nutshell. This is a big, nasty creature, and it has and keep coming back for more if you let it. If you know the trick to beating it, you can If you've got enough Pikmin on you, you It will wake up, get stunned a bit, then its Seems simple enough. Not much of an enemy if you can kill it that Well, remember what we talked about with the Taking risks in order to save time is the going to have one hundred flowered reds on of your way. Inevitably you'll try with fewer Pikmin, And eventually your luck will run out. They won't keep it stunned long enough, start CHOWIN' DOWN. At this point you lose two or three Pikmin standing up and scattering your troop, your body manually to do the last bit of damage This naturally takes time, and all the while and move them away so it can't eat them. It's a great big panicky mess, and I LIVE In Pikmin, when a situation goes wrong, it thrilling. Heck, even when you're SURE you've got OTHER bulborbs with them? I don't know if it's some very subtle to mess with you, but sometimes that swarm Not enough of the Pikmin will attack it fast enough, and all it takes is that ONE TEENY of delicious carnage. Even when you think you're safe, you're Again, unless you're willing to never touch reds, but...who's gonna do that? The option to be meticulous is always there, You won't be in the Forest of Hope long and you're able to start building up your In any game I love starting with very little As such, I am endlessly entertained by the it, even trying to make as many new ones as It's just so...darn...SATISFYING. Anyway, we've talked about yellows already, This is the most touchy and finicky and potentially For this reason, it's actually a little I mean it's your first real day with the yellows, and then BAM, here are some bomb Hope you don't blow yourself up. I guess they just wanted yellows to be utilized a pretty integral part of the game, so why Anyone who's played this game knows EXACTLY and finicky, but let's look at just why If you dismiss your Pikmin, any yellows holding From here you can bump them or call them. If you THROW a Pikmin however, you HAVE to calling it will make it drop its bomb rock, This means that you have to keep track of is, in my opinion, extremely clumsy design. Similarly, bomb rock carrying Pikmin that This is something you just have to figure And of course, one small mistake anywhere got to handle these things with utmost care. Honestly, I'm pretty torn on bomb rocks. It's a cool concept, it gives yellows something you have to overcome. But it adds a level of stress to the game of the other stress. It's a little scary to have bomb rocks in and doing all the bomb rock related stuff And gosh, managing them is such a pain. Especially when you're taking down dark rocks each, you've got to throw in small Then each time you've got to re-dismiss up. This once again highlights the game's big when you're trying to manage bomb rocks. You can try grabbing one and holding down not super reliable-mistakes will still be This whole thing just leads to way more dismissing to do. Anyway, back to bomb rocks themselves, they're And it's nice that they can also be used time, especially with black ones, which take Bombs can also be used on enemies, which is The problem is that while you can throw as all drop their bomb rocks, only one Pikmin rest will all just run back to you. And instead of just dropping the rock they'll If you try to use bombs on something like bomb goes off the thing is already awake and bunch of bomb rocks in your party then you're Pikmin around to fight it. Maybe this was their way of making sure that So bomb rocks are helpful, but also sort of ever played this game without having at least catastrophe. Though, in fairness, while I mostly try to stories, don't they? Again, risk is part of the thrill, so I can't LITTLE... One last thing to note about bomb rocks is In the Forest of Hope, it's old cans, one planet. Where do bomb rocks even come from? Are they somehow produced in these objects Does a creature bring them there? Maybe bomb rocks are actually the eggs of BABIES that we're exploding for our own Yet another fun Pikmin-related mystery to Moving on, the next part you're likely to Radar, which is just sort of sitting up on And again I must call into question just how parts are. You need a radar just to get off this planet? That doesn't make a lot of sense... But I don't know, maybe he needs it to find Maybe... Anyway, the Whimsical Radar does give you It was nice of them to let us keep track of locations so early on in the game. Gosh, it's almost TOO helpful. I guess the idea of parts being hidden just with this one. The trick isn't finding them--just earning So at this point in the level you've fought you've obtained a new color of Pikmin, and bomb rocks some. But now it's time to learn a brand new lesson, Yeah, you think you got things figured out? You think you understand the whole risk and You know how to mitigate risk and lower your You just have to have a cool head and attack be fine? Okay, well then how about ENEMIES THAT COME Here in the back of the area you'll find to eat your Pikmin, and in later levels you'll fly and you've got to knock them down. When you've played the game enough times and as long as you're cognizant you can But when they take you unaware--especially be a bloodbath. Because who would expect such a thing to happen? Who could see it coming? NO ONE. It's trial and error, and that's just The world is unpredictable, and predators point, isn't it? Even when you're aware of these things, can still slip through the cracks and get There are simply too many hungry mouths to And this first encounter, even beyond just can happen, I love how it presents you with GO FOR IT. Some dangerous situations can be retreated Like maybe you wake up a sleeping bulborb before it can take the first bite. But sometimes when something bad is happening for the best. You've got to plunge right into that danger, on a clock. When a whole herd of sheerwigs pops up and gotta make the call to start swarming all These scenarios are very invigorating; it war with another army and you're just throwing Unless you decide to panic and try calling being eaten... But that's your choice! Every lesson is a good one! Even outside of direct confrontations though, is if you neglect to clear a path of sheergrubs that path with spoils. You don't even realize your mistake until you have to run and try to figure out what's It's wonderful. It's such a dangerous world and it's wonderful. And it's worth noting, this is likely the hear Pikmin dying no matter where they are can see how many Pikmin are out there at all When that number goes down and you have no intense. It becomes a desperate dash to find who's Nothing makes you feel more vulnerable, more Another small aside, but it's around this limit of one hundred Pikmin in my party. And I just want to point out that there is limit. I've spent plenty of time with full parties something of a "there we go," moment whenever And the first time playing the game especially, Similarly to when you first pick up the engine makes you go "Yeahhh, I am STRONG, I can And also it's just fun to look at! Look at all of 'em! Gosh, they're so CUTE, they're an ARMY One unusual downside to having 100 Pikmin Pikmin die and you sprout up to a hundred about how you can only have a hundred on the It's "I've made another Pikmin-related again and again and again. It's got to be a bug, because no other tips Usually you only need to hear a thing once, stop talking about how you can only have a Weird. Anyway, the next part to grab is the Extraordinary its use is not obvious, I can see any bolt them that one. The part is behind a black stone wall. A little surprising they would put an extra guess they just wanted to get the whole bomb Real quick though, speaking of yellow usefulness. Curiously enough, despite the developers' bomb-rocking abilities, there are no parts require yellows to reach using their extra Right here next to base there's a 20 pellet it. Just seems a little weird to me. By the time you get to the next area and need woah, yeah high ledges, I forgot about that.&quot; Up to that point it's mostly just bombs Weird. Next up we've got the Nova Blaster, which so you've got to work your way through them it away. This part has appropriately been labeled as But can we take a moment to read this description "Blast can travel in the currents of space rifts of space." ...What the heck, man??? Why do you have a weapon of mass destruction Destroying stars means destroying entire solar life in the process! And it's because you need to fire it at Has Olimar used this? How many stars has he OBLITERATED? How many civilizations has he turned to dust??? We should leave this here!!! I HAVE to believe that none of this is true, the pamphlet or something. He mentions other parts in the same light, phazer made for murdering ships full of people Also while we're off on a silly tangent, refers to are literally the same Space Pirates and the Space Pirates are the only Metroid and they fight all the time and Olimar is through all sorts of tiny, cartoon hijinks. Whenever Olimar shows up it's like a Tom and Or, you know, I guess he could be using that Maybe that's why it needs to be so destructive, of times bigger than his! ANYWAY THOUGH, next up the Shock Absorber strategies depending on what Pikmin are available the Pikmin somewhere using different means. If you want to wait until you've got blues them through the water and up this kind of (Gah, why did they make it like this?) Then take out the sleeping bulborb (if you and grab the part. If you want the part early though, you can Olimar up himself. Of course then you've got to throw a ton easily, and you've got to sneak around the Nothing INCREDIBLY complicated but like many I kind of like this idea of having one intended and/or riskier method if they want the job I kind of wish there were more situations The Shock Absorber itself is a mandatory part, like it just makes the ride more comfortable. My only guess is that it also negates more at high speeds, and Olimar just doesn't Maybe... Also a note about getting this part, up on that your Pikmin obsessively break to reveal They are functionally identical to grass, I'm not exactly sure why they exist. I mean I guess the fact that they're rocks grass can't grow, like on cement or other I guess? Not sure. But yeah, it's just more grass for ya. Happy birthday. Now here's one of my favorite parts in the I mean really, so many of them are just lying the enemies scattered about, so anything more probably not necessarily INTENDED to be more There's this box you've got to push out it can only be pushed from the other side. You're supposed to come back later with I say "supposed to" though, because with reds or yellows over the box and they'll What am I, a Super Metroid speedrunner or Like and subscribe for more pro strats like Anyway, once the box is gone you get another bring big groups of Pikmin over narrow paths. Naturally you want to bring reds for the coming anyone who falls over the side is going to Even bringing them over in small groups can when you leave them on the other side you GASP. Our first BOSS??? I love boss battles! This area is home to not one, not two, but strangest creatures. The thing has a bird head on a snake body The simple image of that head on that body And I tell ya, if you're trying to avoid Once they pop out of the ground they start are almost impervious to damage all you can If a Snagret grabs onto any Pikmin, the only it swallows or retreats underground. It's definitely possible to try to keep but this is hard to do while also trying to its head are now in the danger zone. You can wait until it pecks, THEN throw only but such a strategy will take a long, long To get the job done in something even resembling of dive in there. And that's what makes this thing particularly If you're not on the ball with your throws, a time, multiple times before you can bring same. Fortunately it has one very helpful behavior. Whenever it burrows, there's always the head will get stuck halfway out of the dirt If you're prepared, you can swarm its head a thing. This mostly only happens near the end of the can completely depend on if you're trying And seriously, it's really funny that the of the game's bosses and make you fight three Spreading them throughout the game might have to stay on our toes, but nah, they decided Hey, I mean it's certainly interesting, isn't It makes for an interesting encounter, that's Once Snagrets are defeated they don't leave made the devs decide which baddies got bodies Might have been a development time-saver, They do however drop a ton of pellets, which when I play Pikmin. Tons of Pikmin carrying tons of stuff back Why is it so delightful. I do not know. Though I will say, it's a bit annoying that spoils off this ledge here. It seems like it was made specifically to is indeed plenty of room to drop down onto But for some reason non-blue Pikmin choose The preferred paths of the Pikmin and their a little annoying, as we'll see later as As for the part that you get from one of the of those parts that's mandatory but doesn't Olimar says the thing just makes a bunch of what it does, which is a joke about how he radiation. But the radiation doesn't seem to be doing believe that his ship will blow up and he'll Finally there are two parts in the area that got to come back for them later in the game. The first one is funny. When I was less familiar with the game I would clearly nothing on the other side and you you can build a second bridge which connects I'd just have this compulsion to build it, look like it would do anything for me, and "Oh, yeah, I guess there's no point to Telling the story out loud, this is probably But if anyone else has ever done the same It's a bit of a trick based entirely on to perform ANY automated task with your Pikmin You see a bridge, you wanna build it! Figuring out where it actually goes is secondary! Once you do make it over these bridges you'll purpose but I have to assume it's just not Instead we get a very sweet blurb about how These constant reminders of what's at stake with Olimar as a character, and how often Nintendo game? It's worth noting that since you had to your Pikmin won't be able to carry it off blues are carrying it. Because that's just how it works, darn it! Oh, also worth noting, this pond is home to They're non-aggressive, and in fact will I think this is a very interesting angle for innocent you can kill them and harvest their That's how the world works, right? It's dog eat dog! But...it's not like you actually NEED the it right to kill them? Is Olimar completely neutral about the lives because Pikmin help him and the others don't? How many unneeded deaths are caused by Olimar? This is an alien planet, just because they nothing more than tadpoles! For all he knows these are sapient creatures, empathy! And here he is, murdering them in their homes Is Olimar, in fact, a sociopathic MONSTER??? ...That's what I thought until I learned now I DESTROY EVERY LAST ONE ON SIGHT. (But more on Wollywogs later.) The final part in the area leads you to another You can throw reds or yellows up onto this submerged in water for Olimar to get up as I must say, this is a pretty clever mixing The game could have used more stuff like this. After breaking another gate you face off against Like many great Pikmin enemies, it's pretty dangerous even if you do, and potentially This thing's shell is impervious to damage kill even an army of Pikmin instantly. The only way to beat it is to throw a Pikmin better term) when it's preparing to shoot If you're successful, it will open up its exposed back for a short time. I love this thing because exploiting its weakness in its face just as it's about to blast You've got to have all your Pikmin with so it's you and your entire army staring Makes me feel like a cowboy or somethin'! If your aim and timing are good and you don't become pretty darn easy. But I've made plenty of mistakes and had wrong. I have to say, I LOVE the look of this thing. Bugs are already oogly, but this one is just black shell and its stocky legs. Like can you imagine seeing this thing in all stompin' around and gross? Ew!!! I love it. One interesting thing about this fight is part inside it as with most bosses; the part's I thought this was weird until I realized sneak the part away while you distract the Is this necessary? Absolutely not, but little challenges like I do believe that encouraging such a strategy Sometimes just giving the player an option I know I've tried sneaking the part away It, uh... It didn't always end well. The part in question is the Radiation Canopy, mandatory until you read Olimar's description. You're like, radiation, yeah, got to protect Then he's like "Ah, this will be pleasant, though radiation is nothing more than a slight Pretty funny. By the time a player is ready to move on from how ship parts tend to work. Specifically, while enemy bodies and any other always stay just where they are. This is very convenient, and of course it just reset for no reason? Though as an aside, wouldn't it be fun if could be eaten by other baddies, and you had back? Could be kind of cool in a future game. Anyway, it's also at this point that the in, and I LOVE this whole concept. When you start out, the ship is positively on the ship, enough are to give you a very them. It's very satisfying to watch the ship come an actual, pilotable spaceship. And naturally, that feeling of progression to unlock a new area. You don't need specific parts, you just which parts you collect is another one of feel like it's being led by you. You're the one earning the ability to reach Even after playing the game dozens of times when I get the last part I need to move on. It's just a very effective system. And mechanically, it allows a player to pick back later when they're feeling more confident. While we're talking about parts though, interrupted by a little animation every time I'm kind of torn because I do like to see you wouldn't quite get that if you just of the day. It's especially nice when you unlock a level animation. But man, it is a pain to be in the middle and suddenly everything pauses. Especially if it happens multiple times in It can really throw off your groove. And with that, we are done with the Forest We've still got a lot of ground to cover though, heart of the forest. Now it's time to cover what was probably a teenager, but has since become my favorite. The Forest Navel is unlike any other level Pikmin 2 has its kind of smaller caves, and Navel takes place in a dark, dank, and DANGEROUS This is obviously a very big change from the and it makes for some very fun atmospheric It's clear now that just about every area the Pikmin world. Pikmin is spunky. It's serene. And it's also pretty scary. In the Navel your base is illuminated, but in every direction. First arriving is just so intimidating; you safety and plunge into the darkness below. Your imagination runs wild wondering what You can just make out glowing mushrooms in The music works wonders to strengthen this And as far as Pikmin music goes, this is one One of those songs that makes you pause what Musically it's incredibly unique. Mostly slide guitars, it starts in with some getting into something of a melody. It doesn't sound sinister by any means, previous two areas. It communicates, "Alright, play time's You're gettin' into some stuff now." The level is doubly intimidating because it down from your base, with numerous stone walls Thematically I just love that the whole level high up. It makes it stand out a lot even when compared You don't usually get one super strong theme you also don't usually get this much verticality. But this also makes the Navel very unique You can get away with only opening one or to carry things back home. But it will take a lot longer, so you've put into opening things up. Going and hunting down bomb rocks can be tricky, you've either got to spend a ton of time group of yellows and make a break for the I love how you're constantly asking yourself the time to make the area more manageable via these long, snaking paths. The Forest Navel is where you finally get this is. I think my own instinct tells me you should I really love delayed satisfaction and working the sweeter when I get that new ability. But I guess in the same way they wanted us the first real day, they didn't want to They wanted us to just have them and get moving. Hey, it's a short game, I suppose I can't All you've got to do is drop down a few And if you play your cards right you'll seriously, there are so many creatures here The space around your base is pretty safe, stinkin' NIGHTMARE. Before we get to the actual baddies though, got to deal with non-enemy hazards. Fire geysers stick up from the ground in rather what you would expect based on the name. They'll waste no time burninating your Pikmin careful. And here's something I frequently forget. Fire hurts Olimar, okay, I get it, I'll and move fast if I accidentally run into one. No, these things are incredibly dangerous You can be in the middle of a day, everything's and you're on your way to getting a third, out. If Olimar's health reaches zero, the day OUTSIDE THE SAFE ZONE as though it were sundown, Talk about a catastrophe! And it's not just a ton of deaths; it's much day you had left. I haven't spent more time talking about really come up too much as long as you're I've found that just about every other source Olimar away from, at least enough to not lose But fire geysers are the one real threat to The tiniest mistake can lock you in place It's pretty brutal. Fire geysers are just the start of it though. Narrower paths here will surprise you with Then in the center of this bigger area you'll One is the Fiery Blowhog. These lil' chunkers shoot fire, and while doesn't really bother explaining why they're Blowhogs spray out a phosphor that ignites That's a really thoughtful little detail, Back to the point though, these things alternate attached Pikmin off. If your party consists of nothing but reds, It will quite annoyingly knock their flowers However, as we talked about before, a Pikmin The real danger comes when you combine its The Fiery Blowhogs are all next to this big don't buck your Pikmin right into the water. Even without considering water though the and it's easy to lose track of where they've Fiery Blowhogs still aren't super hard or your fight attracts the attention of the OTHER * I am referring to... [annoyed, disgusted groan] These might just be the most aggravating and world. They come in two types, regular and yellow, but if you ask me they're both AWFUL. They seem simple enough. They're a very basic baddie that anyone You get close to them, they jump and try to Should only be a matter of throwing Pikmin right? Ohhhh, buddy, I wish it were. The first problem comes down to a concept When a creature is allowed to attack your fighting back, at what rate does it kill your That is the creature's deadliness potential. How fast can this thing take out Pikmin? How many can it kill with one attack? When figuring out how deadly a creature ACTUALLY consider how easy it is to avoid this attack. If a creature can eat a hundred Pikmin at prepare so it never actually lands, that creature's I don't have an exact system of stats or of how dangerous each enemy is. One of those things I didn't really think this game. The point is though, if you sort Pikmin baddies large, and boss--Wollywogs fit into the medium This SHOULD, in theory, put them on the lower Size, rarity and deadliness should all correlate, Blowhogs have a high base deadliness potential a go, but it's pretty easy to hit them with them from burning. Effectively they're decently dangerous, Bulborb, but still not large enemy or BOSS Wollywogs, then? They aren't that big at all, and they're mildly deadly, like Blowhogs. And yet this medium-sized, rather COMMON enemy's GAME'S BOSSES. For another comparison before we dig into I would classify this as a "large" enemy. It's very deadly. And yet even the Bulbear is considerate enough Plus, if it's got some in its mouth you A bad run-in with a Bulbear means losing like prepared. But the Wollywog? What was that? Sorry, I can't hear you over the sound of The Wollywog does not choose to only squish of its heart. The entire area underneath it is a 100% no-recovery The deadliness potential of its attack is And no, the attack isn't very easy to avoid in combat. I tell ya, considering how common these things their kill output is just absurd. I mean they've probably got the widest radius Making matters much worse though, they are As with many enemies, the Wollywog can knock This stuns them and prevents them from moving Pikmin are thrown off and stunned whenever Also as with many enemies, if the Pikmin aren't they'll run back and continue to fight it. This will inevitably lead to them being squished It's bad enough that you've got them to worry when thrown will also try to attack the thing The window for throwing Pikmin onto its head once can be very difficult. The obvious solution then is to swarm a Wollywog, In theory, yes. As with Bulborbs, getting attacked by many stunned. You can even see it struggling to move. But no matter what, that stun is on a timer. It doesn't matter how many Pikmin are holding up in the air...and come right back down on Because that's right, it doesn't just stun It also stuns any Pikmin attacking it from Get a hundred flowered reds together and yeah, by swarming it. But as we must remind ourselves, we don't need it, and Wollywogs are most often found Times will inevitably come when you need to to take them out--with the team you've got. As with Bulborbs, you can always take the But Wollywogs are unpredictable, their attack out in time can be positively catastrophic. And all of this put together leads to a very Like I said, it's not like Wollywogs are rare, These things come in groups, and their attention So you can try to ignore them or get around to wreck your day. I mean I've had more wildly disastrous encounters enemy in any Pikmin game. They are miserable and I hate them. (But also love them, because danger and unpredictability Pikmin.) But mostly I hate them! If anything, one great thing about them is in Pikmin can be. All of this stuff I've been describing can They require precise movements and constant If you want a quote-unquote &quot;safe&quot; way to land, throw a few Pikmin on their heads, wait when they land, quickly call the Pikmin who they are dead. And even that's not necessarily safe, because quick. There's still plenty that can go wrong, and to be careful you might end up becoming impatient "Ehhhh, it's only got a tiny bit of health Some of these risks will pay off, and some Because even when you think you've won the its sleeve. If it's in the middle of a jump animation until it's completed that animation and You know, just as one last little parting Thanks, you horrible frog monster. It's kind of funny how sometimes Wollywogs Their bodies should be reward enough for beating Well I think this might be the developers and probably just killed forty of your Pikmin. Have a little something extra for your trouble." It's like they realized super late into were and threw us a bone. * So as you can see, between all the baddies exploring the Forest Navel takes either a But, let's get on with specifics! Our first part to look at is the Automatic It's mandatory, but the description makes steering easier, so I'm not sure why. Your Pikmin have got to build and climb a The place they land with the part is close because in my experience they always carry into them. Seems like a perfect opportunity for a nasty Then there's the Gravity Jumper, which is speed, so this mandatory part gets an a-okay Getting the part however is a little awkward. You've got to build two bridges to reach like maybe you're supposed to wait until But you can just sort of chuck anybody up but you can get them building in no time. It's JUST hard enough to do that I wonder that I wonder why the whole blues-in-the-back It could just be that they wanted to give Something about it just feels awkward to me Next up, the #1 Ionium Jet is just sort of It's kind of disappointing, actually. There's this whole series of ledges and pools Like the best they could manage was just putting Feels like it could have at least used a unique Like, why isn't the Goolix here? That would be perfect! Anyway, the #1 Ionium Jet is mandatory, I checks out. Here's a fun one, though. There's a very unusual enemy in this area example of the developers exploring enemy eat you. I mean you're making a game where you're your little Pikmin are a prey species, so they're tasty. It's already interesting enough to acknowledge creatures on this planet, but making a COMPETITIVE Not only is the concept interesting, but they of beating it. The Breadbug roams around the stage, which in this game. It grabs any kind of spoils with a weight a time. Pikmin can still grab these objects, but if it and it will perish in that nest. Put two Pikmin on the object though and they'll onion, and when it hits the onion it will It's just such a fun idea! It's the kind that could have taken one dreamed it up nice and early, and I think and strong creative sense when designing the Of course even with this weird thing there's It's impervious to swarming, but land a and take a tiny amount of damage. This takes much longer unless you're just it is much trickier, but I love the option. I love how basically everything in the game Like it was a goal of the devs to make sure It makes these creatures feel so organic. I mean look at this thing, trompin' around down pellets to drag back to its nest? Talk about a creature with a ton of personality! Once you defeat it, out will pop the Space only a float, for...space. Like, if you go overboard and you need to I don't...I don't understand it either. Maybe Hocotatians have some sort of inherent, no, there's no theory or Pikmin lore here, Hey it's a good one though. Space float. I love it. Way out in the lake on the far side of the It's mandatory, though according to the description not exactly sure why. This is a part that you can forgive for just trek through about a million Fiery Blowhogs ship. It has a weight of 40 as well, so it's not Worth noting, also in this lake is a bottle. There aren't a TON of very specific human stands out a good amount. Something about the placement of this bottle me. Very deliberate. It doesn't do anything. It just sort of sits there and makes you go, This is like, Earth or something, right? Weird..." So you want to talk about enemies that will know what you're doing? Let me introduce you to a boss called the This thing is MESSED UP. You think Sheerwigs are bad for taking you Look at this thing! You wander into its lair and BAM, it just squarshed DEAD. Then after that it stomps around, and if you've going to reach its vulnerable body easily. As usual, Pikmin will try to attack the parts which will lead to them getting killed, and because hitting it right in the body is tricky. And you know what, it might be easy enough to predict where they were going to land, the shadows are completely unreliable. This is easily one of the most potentially That's not what I love most about it though. What I love most is that this thing is WEIRD. It's creepy and oogly like the Armored Cannon This spider would be like a foot and a half And it only has four legs, and it doesn't and the legs, so it's really alien and creepy. Even better, when its health gets low it starts and when it dies it dissolves into nothing. What even IS this thing??? It's so gross! I love it! Beating it will net you one Guard Satellite, a security system, so it totally shouldn't And if you try to bring it back to your ship all the fire geysers in front of the boss This game can be CRUEL. As with the Forest of Hope, the Navel has Remember the glowing mushrooms you can see They mark the lair of the Puffstool, and you It's a positively eerie area, and the Puffstool It's this big blubbery mushroom thing that It sprays out this nasty spore stuff that makes them attack you! It's like that weird fungus that turns ants It's yet another way the developers toyed the insectlike nature of the Pikmin. It's also another incredibly fun and unique doesn't use it more. Even later games at the time of this recording Beyond challenge mode, this is the one place find it. It's also disappointing how easy the Puffstool knock it over and throw Pikmin on it once But I can still very much appreciate its core When you beat the Puffstool you get the Omega even though it sounds like it functions just It just makes the ship shake less I guess. Kay. One great thing about this part is that as isn't the whole battle; getting the part In this case especially it's easy to not out for and just drop down these ledges to But once your Pikmin start heading back they'll and even over a Sheerwig nest for good measure. The part is fairly heavy, too--it's got even though the boss is easy once you figure time and a big ol' group of Pikmin. As I've said plenty by now, I just love enemies and even the environment itself can This little section might illustrate better world can be, and the Forest Navel in particular. Even later levels don't have environments * As I've sort of touched on here and there, quite live up to their potential. Much of the world design is pretty simplistic, without much thought, or they're earned There's nothing wrong with battling for best when you've got to work out a plan your disposal. The final two parts in the Forest Navel can map, and here, I feel, was where the designers how a Pikmin game should be designed. You've got the usual path-clearing to do and the like, but then you come to this narrow You can bring your yellows and blues here, At the far end of the path you'll need blues you'll need reds to carry it back through If you want to you can try to use blues anyway the flames. I don't recommend it, though I'd be lying I've tried EVERYTHING! It's PIKMIN! Sometimes trying stupid stuff is part of the Anyway, even better though, you've got to gap. This is the one area of the whole game with more moody and intimidating for it. Every other pit in the game has water or something No way man, this place is scary and dark and pit! It would be weird if there WASN'T a bottomless Anyway, once you get to the other side you've in some water so Olimar can get up onto the YELLOWS to get the part! And of course after that you've got to deal again, and if you don't have enough reds through one by one and let the yellows and This, my friends, right here, is Pikmin. Taking groups of a hundred of one color or by one is all well and good, but if you ask all different colors into a dangerous situation what order, and of course trying to do it This is a pretty time-consuming section, so crucial. Challenges such as these are unfortunately put a positive spin on it, that has made me challenge all the more closely, which sure And it's funny, right as I was writing this You Know Gaming on some lesser-known Pikmin It was there I learned that earlier versions elements, and that the devs actually REMOVED feel more natural and alive. Yup, I keep complaining about how basic the INTENTIONAL. While I can certainly respect the designers agree that it was the right decision. They did so much other stuff to make the world would have harmed anything. I mean, they certainly could go too far with limit to how puzzley a Pikmin game should Simpler, more naturally designed challenges help less experienced players find their bearings. But as I said, sequences like these here, rare. And later games end up leaning way more into EVERYONE realized that the more basic environments Back to this final chunk of the Forest Navel is the Analog Computer, which is mandatory Olimar himself mentions that it's not very It combines with the ship's digital computer moody, apparently? How sapient is this thing? Why would you give this thing life if you is bother you? It's...weird. (And it's kind of foreshadowing a certain about it, though that's obviously a discussion Then the other part here is the Libra, which Once again it has no obvious use, but maybe has very high sentimental value for Olimar. Maybe it's not ACTUALLY mandatory for flying, without it. Knowing the other risks he takes throughout DISTANT SPRING And now we move to the last of the game's This place is serene, much like the Forest heavier atmosphere. Rounding out the series of area themes that we get a taste of the MYSTERIOUS. There's a lot of water here, and a pond is stretching out into the distance around The color palette has a ton of white in it, The music is much less memorable than the nature certainly fits the mood. The rest of the game's areas contain little the Spring contains the biggest concentration There are some clearly manmade structures Their original purposes aren't apparent, To me this looks like bits of a building that and it really gets my imagination going. It brings up all the old questions: where How long have they been gone? Was this a house once? Who did it belong to? It's so weird to think about my house rotting walking around the space where it once stood unlike anything that really exists making As I've said, it's narrative and worldbuilding put out (okay I guess Splatoon is a little these kinds of scenarios that I treasure. Even apart from manmade objects though, adding rocks hanging out in SKULLS??? They're definitely not human skulls; they mammal like a cat or something? Except are those a bunch of eye sockets? Weird! And whatever these animals might have been, either. Most of the creatures remaining on the planet to what we're used to, so these mammal skulls Are they from a time between humans and Pikmin? Are we seeing the remains of MULTIPLE different Who even knows, man. But somehow even more ominous is this thing For a while I couldn't quite tell what it Then I realized, oh, of course, it's a SPINE. I'm used to even the cuter Nintendo games imagery, but here along with your realistically rendered spine as well. And while the image might be SLIGHTLY unsettling, It's all very natural. Clearly some animals died here a long time aboveground. It's presented so nonchalantly, and somehow As with everything, it's up to us to glean Moving on, the Forest of Hope and the Forest open, but the Distant Spring is a bit more There's a cluster of tree stumps in the either side has a lot of big open areas, including It might not be as strong a structural theme when compared with most areas throughout the It's memorable and easier to keep mapped out One interesting thing about the level is that as it usually is. It's pretty out in the open, which always I mean the Forest Navel is incredibly intimidating, bubble up in the light. But the Spring just kinda plunks you down The area might not have a wealth of physical scattered about are all the obstacle you could And you want to talk about aggravating enemies? The Distant Spring takes the cake. First off, there are tons of yellow wollywogs, But that's not even the half of it. There are two other enemies here that are Pikmin series. Wollywogs are aggravating, but I also respect They're formidable opponents, and as I said makes them a solid enemy. I hate them, but I also kind of love how much Puffy Blowhogs, on the other hand? They are awful, and they are miserable, and regrets in life is that in this game my Pikmin they just deflate into nothing and drop a thing but it's NOT THE SAME THING. Naturally the Puffy Blowhog is cousin to the they float around and... (disgusted sigh) Now, I wouldn't consider myself a neat freak Take a look at my room or my work desk or fairly messy guy when I let myself. But I do have OCD, and there are certain situations a lot of important things, having them all awful. I'm afraid they'll get lost, or broken, they already are. It's like this very specific kind of hangup. And lemme tell ya, since I care so much about or left behind or eaten or drowned or whatever, way to get my anxiety runnin' RED HOT. And the Puffy Blowhog... (Ohhhhh the Puffy Blowhog...) This thing can really launch them--really Its hit range is huge, so even if you think not. In addition to sending your Pikmin flying And this, RRRRGH. The way to beat them is to just throw Pikmin they'll fall and you can rush them. But guess what they do when you try to hit They just moooove away. Just "Nope, nope, nope, moooovin' away It's....so infuriating I don't even like There's something just SO ANNOYING about They've got a huge attention radius so if they'll come right on in and start blowing second you get it in your head to fight them, super deliberately get up in their face, right YOU with their PUFFY BLOW when they're GOOD of the way without at least a good chunk of And the worst part, though? I don't even know why they do it. They don't want to eat your Pikmin. They don't seem to be protecting a nest They JUST want to mess up your day. They just want to do the most chaotic thing The single most disruptive thing in the world. And I hate them. And you want to talk about baddies I've how 'bout the Swooping Snitchbug, also known JERKBUG, or the...AWFUL, DUMB, I HATE IT BUG...JERK! Anyway, this thing is just like the Blowhog. Why does it do what it does? Why does it feel like snatching up my Pikmin planting them, sometimes waaaay out of the Is this maybe a defense thing? Maybe Pikmin like to raid their nests, and of them? Maybe, but DO YOU SEE ANY NESTS AROUND HERE? It's almost like you're doing this JUST And it wouldn't be so bad if they were easier so you're just chucking Pikmin all over and just gives them more Pikmin to snatch Ugh. I hate 'em. At least you get to eat their bodies. THAKE THAT, YA DUMB BUG JERK! (sigh) Unfortunately, despite everything I've enemies are badly designed, or even that I choice. They're MONSTROUSLY aggravating, more annoying plans and waste your time more than anything.... But as with everything else, those kinds of Cursing at my TV because I've been trying minute, or because a Puffy Blowhog floated water right when they were about to fight That's Pikmin! That's all part of the experience. It's an emotional rollercoaster, and exasperated And somehow I wouldn't have it any other Man, I'm a real Pikmin masochist, aren't The shenanigans of these two creatures are of their proximity to water, and to other Instead of Bulborbs, this place has got BulBEARS. They're bigger, meaner, and they're waaaay once you wake them up. If a Bulbear is awake and facing you down, it and its health is just about at zero. Because otherwise you just provided this thing Of course though, how can you go around taking and Snitchbugs trying to wreck your day? How do you take out the Blowhogs and Snitchbugs It's... It's a thing, for sure. A couple interesting things worth noting about weirdly, and the spots continue to pulse even Gross. Also here in the Distant Spring you've also these things actually are juvenile Bulbears. And of course, because of this, the developers their parents. If you take out the Bulbears then come back kids standing around like they're wondering More of that depth I've been talking about. More questioning whether or not Olimar is Wondering how many infants are left abandoned nest at night. Making you worry about the families of the of games, not even ones that present themselves than something kiddy and colorful like Pikmin. And I think that's incredibly interesting. ...Okay I STILL don't feel bad about killing * Anyway, on to the ship parts! First off we've got a nice little multi-color Blues to build a bridge across the water, if you want to grab some bomb rocks. This is yet another situation where there's carry the part through the water, especially the Bulbear. But Pikmin do what they want, I guess. Or, more accurately, Pikmin do what the devs I guess they didn't really have enough time and give us strong narrative reasons why Pikmin The part you grab here is the Massage Machine, as it sounds. Next we've got one of these weird manmade You've got to throw blues up on a ledge, a little bridge to the part, where you can It's a very simple challenge with very little I mean if you swarm away from yourself maybe map and get stuck there? I don't know, and I ain't tryin'! Really though, the whole thing is over in You throw, you run over, you have them grab I do however appreciate the IDEA on display very basic gameplay concepts when crafting This one uses the magnetic relationship between you control that party even though they're Even though they're no longer surrounding still going to be drawn to him and respond it comes to grabbing the part as they run It also requires more nuanced maneuvering in this game a lot. Usually it's all about moving him out of to throw a Pikmin from, but sneaking him along Pikmin are following on a different ledge It's almost a little platformy. The part you get is the Repair-Type Bolt, because unless some of the other parts are don't need the ability to repair stuff in Next is a very similar challenge that's Here's another weird manmade structure, Pikmin up a ramp and along a series of ledges ledge to get the part. Even with the swarm ability they'll inevitably seen in this game Pikmin have zero sense of and it always takes me a couple quick, sloppy It's a fairly interesting challenge, if quite like it in the game. There's no real danger involved, so you it can use up a fair amount of time, because where you've got to use a stick and a geyser The whole thing is made even easier because to get TOO many yellows to the end. The part is the UV Lamp, which doesn't sound What do you know? Close by, beyond some fire geysers, you'll Cannon Beetle in it. In a game where I feel that many of its ideas are too fun to be put behind you so quickly, I mean the Cannon Beetle is just such a cool it again. And this time there's no sneaking option; It's the Bowsprit, and it's mandatory a little more shape. Not really sure why that would be necessary. Maybe it helps with structural integrity when Maybeee... Also close by is the Pilot's Seat, which and Olimar's been fine without it this whole I'm starting to think that Olimar would uncomfortable and slightly unsafe trip home. Hey, maybe creature comforts and peace of The part is just sitting in a hollowed out the only thing you've got to do. The Gluon Drive is mandatory. Its use isn't apparent, but hey, I don't just trust that it's important. You've got to build two bridges into each this happens. And of course because of this, your blues I get why, I know, it would defeat the purpose this too much. But I'm a firm believer in narrative consistency. If they can carry parts through water, there ALL parts through water. If reds and yellows are carrying the part route accordingly, but with just blues it's in front of an unfinished bridge that they Right next to the Gluon Drive is the Zirconium told what it does, so again I'm much more function. At least one thing it achieves is playing get ripped off by salesmen and mechanics, To get it you need blues to beat some Wollywogs Pretty simple, though obviously those Wollywogs If you head way out into the water you'll deceptively deadly kind of baddie. Like Dwarf Bulborbs they basically just move come in groups and it can be tricky to swarm OH, HELLO PUFFY BLOWHOG, NICE TO SEE YOU TODAY. GLAD YOU COULD COME JOIN THE PARTY. Beating this particular puffy fellow will even though it doesn't seem mandatory because...it's Why would Olimar need that? Do you see what I've been talking about * The last two parts are on the far side of One of them is up on yet another manmade structure, than it is. I always expect to need yellows or to do some you just kind of throw some blues up on the across the gap. There are plenty of parts that just sit there, a little anticlimactic to me. Like it wanted to be more but just...wasn't. The part is the #2 Ionium Jet, which is mandatory, Much trickier is the final part of the area, though it doesn't seem mandatory, because why would you need that if the Eternal Fuel These ships are real gas guzzlers, I guess. This challenge is PARTICULARLY interesting anywhere else in the game. Candypop buds are sprinkled throughout the Pikmin types. Throw in some Pikmin, they pop out, pluck Red flower makes red Pikmin, blue makes blue, Honestly I pretty much never use them since But that makes me appreciate this obstacle game that basically REQUIRES you to do some You've got a part that's way up high so Problem is, it's totally surrounded by water. So you've got to convert a bunch of your To complicate things considerably though, so keeping your newly sprouted yellows from them onto the far shore is positively nerve It's a very time consuming part to get, me use up a whole day after I just can't quite But as with any unique challenge in the game, wanted to try something different. It's one of those rare remnants of the earlier, imagine. Okay, so that's it for parts in the Distant about. For some reason the level has no unique, traditional each having multiple. It does however have one optional boss that and the Goolix. It is less similar to them however, in that If you're in the Distant Spring on or before experienced player, you will find this egg, water. If you get close enough, a monster straight This is the Smoky Progg. Its body seems to be made up of some sort over its invisible form, giving it a positively It has no hind legs, and instead drags itself as it goes. It's got two horrific glowing eyes that Is this thing deadly? Oh, it wouldn't be a nightmare Pikmin boss Any Pikmin that touches its body or its ghastly And I mean INSTANTLY. No struggle, no animation, no sound effect, They JUST DIE. They stop living. Are there any other baddies or hazards in I don't think there are. It's incredibly unnerving. And that should really clue you in on how I know that if I were creating a Pikmin boss that's what makes an enemy so scary, right? That's what fills you with dread when you Ohhhh no, my friend. The ease with which this thing murders Pikmin When the Smoky Progg hatches it does one thing your base. It does so DELIBERATELY, as though it has How does it even know what a base is, and Does it have a personal vendetta against Pikmin? It seems so, because furthermore, this is threat to UNPLUCKED PIKMIN. It plucks them for you, just so they can die And if you're not familiar with this thing, and you've got Pikmin in the ground at base, it truly IS a nightmare. I remember my first encounter with it all This beast is not easy to bring down. The only part of its entire body that won't battle is done exclusively through throwing. It moves around a lot though and just loves there are always Pikmin around on the ground It also loves to stick its head under your and you have to wonder if it's waiting for its face on purpose or both. Neither are particularly uplifting conclusions... The Smoky Progg is without a doubt one of that's not just because it's difficult. It is difficult, don't get me wrong. But I think a lot of the intimidation factor you feel. Your base is usually out of harm's way, It's usually the one safe place you can And Pikmin that are in the ground are ALWAYS They're not even born yet! But this thing so immediately and so deliberately should be unkillable. And you can't even run away from it, because and you'll never be able to get anything than to destroy Pikmin, or maybe even to destroy I mean even just the simple concept of fighting and unsettling. Trying to whistle constantly and having a too close to the ship and the onions elicits even be right, is this a glitch? Should this be happening???" And all that is what makes the Smoky Progg planet, and more like a monster from a horror Standing out in this sense is what makes it Everything else in the game meshes with the makes some kind of sense in this natural setting. But not this thing. This thing is straight out of a Pikmin's I mean, when it dies it even looks like it's Is it gonna come back??? It's interesting to note that Olimar believes The game doesn't really give any evidence weird that they would feel the need to make I've seen it argued that the Mamuta likes and the Smoky Progg likes to pluck them so relational linkage there? I really don't know. While the idea of this thing really being I will say it's a pretty scary thought. The Mamuta is already so weird, but all it a smoking, poison-spewing, semi-corporial That's rough. The singular silver lining here, when the sprout a hundred Pikmin, so even if you lose out on top, so that's nice. You know, if you're not too TRAUMATIZED Sheesh... THE FINAL TRIAL We have finally reached the final area of After it's unlocked (with finality) you map screen, which I always thought was really It's a small visual detail but it always like the planet itself is rooting for me. Much like the Impact Site, the Final Trial The music is back to being kind of silly, also a little more grandiose and important. It kind of comes full circle. The area only has one part and one singular You've got to use all three Pikmin colors build bridges, and reds to run through some And beyond precariously throwing yellows over tricky, but it's fun because it's another to all work together to accomplish a task. It's over too fast, but it's fun and satisfying to have such an obstacle here at the end of The fact that the whole level is about pooling one thing is very novel. The final boss is Emperor Bulblax. I can fault him a little for not really encouraging the case for final bosses in future titles; you want. However there's still a LOT to like about He sits in the ground, just waiting for you, toast to pop, and finally BAM, he bursts right All at once it's clear what you're dealing I love that he's in the Bulborb family (also seem to be the most basic, iconic Pikmin enemies, Bulborbs is the last boss of the very first And this guy is a big ol' honkin' BEAST. He's MASSIVE, and he's got this giant big fat tongue. He's extremely intimidating, and I tell He's the classic tough Pikmin enemy--extremely take much much longer. He's impervious on most of his body, only Loose Pikmin will try to attack his feet and back fast enough. His tongue attack has a wide reach and will its way. Undoubtedly the most interesting thing about just chip away at his health with reds there's However, it comes at a price. There are basically all the bomb rocks you desire you can place bomb rock-holding yellow him up. When he's awake he'll gobble them up, you a precious moment to attack without retaliation. The moment doesn't last long though, so be effective. And, in case you haven't noticed already, Pikmin. I love how here, at the end of the game, the First is the very idea of preparing a boss advantage before purposefully engaging with that's explored much elsewhere in the series. The second idea plays with the nature of an of a trap. And this whole trap scenario is amazing because Sure, the option of letting a Bulborb or Bulbear there through the whole game, but of course their bomb rocks at baddies so it doesn't And I'm willing to bet that even if that if they are indeed forming emotional bonds But with the Bulblax it's the end of the and this is the biggest and deadliest boss He's got a tongue made for eatin', and Anyone would put that together, so the player this battle the right way, or the quick way? Is the quick way worth sacrificing a bunch Will their sacrifice possibly end up preventing Should I stop caring about these little colorful but tools and are most certainly not alive I haven't yet, so why start now??? It is perfect. Being tough is one thing, but presenting the the Emperor Bulblax one heck of a fine final And one more thing that makes him an extra devastating low-health move. The Dark Souls style phase 2. This guy's hard, he's eaten up a ton of low, you've almost...wait, where'd he BLAUGH!!! If you don't see the jump coming, it can when you do see it coming it can be tricky I mean one tiny wrong move or hesitation and It's pure evil on the part of the developers, difficult battle. Once you finally put an end to Emperor Bulblax body, but his death animation is fantastic) It's not mandatory, which is kind of cool the game without fighting the last boss. The voluntary nature of the fight makes it to overcome if you want to go home truly victorious. It's also good that the Secret Safe isn't piggy bank, though I do have some questions Why is it so big? Do they have pigs on Hocotate, a totally different future when all our own animals have perished And why would ANYONE think, after acquiring planet, that fighting the biggest baddest BANK back??? Well, I have to assume that Hocotatians are to money, as we'll see in Pikmin 2. The Final Trial seems to be designed so that Secret Safe back to the ship all in one day The part is super heavy so it's extra tricky, battle you'll have to run back to base to It's a nice opportunity to set one last you've been developing the whole game. * And speaking of the game...that's the end If you collected every ship part you get the to his Pikmin friends and blasting off. It's a really nice cutscene, too. The Pikmin just kind of look at him and do Olimar is clearly a little sad to leave them Maybe he'll miss them? Maybe he's struggling with the fact that he his gratitude in any way? Maybe this is mixed with the guilt of using Only Olimar knows for sure. But I think his face says it all... I have to wonder if the developers knew that this game gives the Pikmin themselves a very After Olimar leaves, we see a group of Pikmin for the night, suggesting to me that they've might not even have to hide at night anymore. This is not an idea that we would see reflected Even if I do have to wonder how this might the planet... This kind of shift could potentially have Even more major though, as the Dolphin draws of all sorts of wacky colors flying away as Are they just flying up to see him off? Or are they flying off to conquer other worlds? By exploiting the Pikmin workforce and disrupting Olimar also doomed other planets to be killed Will they stop at eating animals, or will Is Hocotate next? Will they spare Olimar when they reach his How many civilizations will they DESTROY??? ...Of course, none of this will happen, and think about this at ALL, but one last time If you SOMEHOW manage to get all twenty five to get one or more of the non-mandatory ones maybe Emperor Bulblax was just too hard for This just shows Olimar blasting off and that's You want to talk about the most interesting You want to talk about weird little details and what their world even is? Let's look at the bad ending. Olimar tries to leave the planet and his ship, Earth. I don't know if he dies on impact or if he dies, alone, far far from his family. And this is it. The cruel, lonely fate that has been hanging This funny little cartoon spaceman in this His body is right there before us, completely As I said about the story as a whole, it's family friendly Nintendo project. We just watched the main character DIE. It's a poignant moment to be sure, but we're The Pikmin quickly get to work, carrying Olimar I. HAVE. SO. MANY. QUESTIONS. What is this? Will this sprout into an Olimar with a leaf Who will pluck him? Is he conscious before he's plucked? Will he have all of his old memories? Can he be sucked up and reborn more than once? Did the Pikmin do this because once he died do this on purpose as a means of saving him? WHY DID IT HAPPEN? Are they able to do this on purpose, or is a being with higher intelligence into an onion? ARE PIKMIN EVEN PIKMIN, OR ARE THEY A DIFFERENT AS OLIMAR IS HERE? How does any of this work, why is evolution It's the head-scratcher of all Pikmin head-scratchers, piece of lore would be hidden away in an alternate, would ever earn naturally. The end credits are fun, there's this whole gives you a little blurb on each one. I've always presumed that he came back to game, because he seems to have much deeper That doesn't mesh with the opening of Pikmin even knew they would get a sequel when they The reel is interesting because it shows off shows Olimar fighting bosses in places they They probably just captured all this footage to wonder why they would do that. Seems like the kind of thing you'd prioritize I would wonder if maybe they WANTED the reel suggest that Olimar came back to do all this, would be lying around, so I guess that doesn't One slightly disappointing thing about the bosses! It showed me the Mamuta, Goolix and Smoky for myself. The first time I remember being like, "WHAT Oh well. THE STRAGGLERS Now that we've covered the whole campaign and design, it's time for final thoughts! The last little insights I couldn't quite Let's start with sound design. I already talked about the major musical themes to mention how these themes are DYNAMIC. While Pikmin 1 doesn't allow as many different in the series, what we've got here does Plenty of Nintendo games with dynamic soundtracks of fades in to replace the music of the area, extra instruments and otherwise leaving the Whenever you're near an enemy you just get it's with something as basic as a tiny bit It's simple but it's wonderfully effective, of serenity and danger. Additionally when a day's about to end you theme is replaced with an alternate version--usually up the tension. This change is much more significant, and your business for the day. It's a very classic Nintendo touch, dating Bros when the timer is about to run out. The level themes are very good but the game's The main title theme has this jungly, wild kicks in it almost sounds like the cry of being deliberately played. It's got the same sort of bending, warbling Very cool. But then the theme that plays at the end of a guy sitting in a spaceship up in orbit, I've already talked about how I love combining because in my eyes they simultaneously contrast music is no different. The combination of spacey and plucky makes There isn't a lot MIXING the two themes and the Earthy tracks far outweigh the spacey there wasn't too much to experiment with But the two themes are cleverly woven together The peaceful music that plays when you're game grounded in its sci-fi elements. With a theme like this, there's no forgetting where he wants to get back to. The file select screen as well. This tune is undoubtedly spacey, and always up the game. Now, the map theme, I want to give special This is another example of something I never each element of the game. Naturally, you begin each day in the morning, landed your ship. But really, the map screen is the TRUE beginning This is where Olimar decides where to land And I've really come to appreciate how much It begins with a very traditional, very flowery morning." It's very reminiscent of the beginning of sun comes up over Hyrule. But then the music brings in a little melody, kinda of tune, with horn instruments that Whatever kind of music Hocotatians like to This part of the theme is very motivating, telling you, "Alright, time to go! Let's do this!" It's a lovely little song, and carries so realized. Moving on, the non-music sound design of Pikmin nature noises and even comical sound effects colorful. The Pikmin make a huge range of adorable noises, Though I will say that a few of the game's when they're multiplied. The sound of Pikmin touching water can be bomb rocks exploding simultaneously always Very minor gripes, though. * Moving on, I keep mentioning the end-of-day about it as a concept. The fact that every day begins with an animation ends with it taking off again, does a lot This isn't just a level beginning or ending; to do what he needs to do, and when time's And specifically, I feel the animation that perfect, pure Nintendo-y elements that will eternity. The theme that plays is the perfect little Olimar blows his whistle and you get to see climb up the legs of their onions, which is Pikminisms, especially when you've got a Then of course you've got to watch any stray The number of Pikmin you see doesn't match do, so it really does feel like you're watching Ah, and you even have to watch them run up as they could but you just had to take off It's heart-wrenching! And finally after that you get to watch the in itself. It's a great reward for the work you put each day; it's a visual palate cleanser It's simply perfect, and like I said I get Pikmin game that doesn't use the idea in theme and everything. One thing I often neglect to appreciate is you're on. I've mentioned a few examples related to subtle enemy changes as well. Since I tend to complete the game so quickly, oblivious to most of them, because they simply But it's funny because in the back of my Like as I was writing this script I kept wondering where you encounter the Iridescent Flint Beetle, getting in the way multiple times. Well it turns out, they show up a lot more Other things too, mainly in the Forest of More Bulborbs, a Snitchbug by the base, little If you speed through like me you'll miss time and jumping around a lot, they make the None of it is purely random, but until you creatures just happen to be showing up on do. Sometimes there ain't a Snitchbug, and sometimes It is what it is. It's a very fun idea that makes the game Honestly I could have used more changes like They're great. Next up, I must say the game can be a little Also nothing major, but little anomales will Sometimes Pikmin will glitch out a bit or Not usually much that gets in the way of gameplay, as much polish as most other Nintendo games This is a big review but...I guess that's Glitches happen sometimes. One thing I often forget about the game is You can revisit any of the game's five areas day, and for me the fun is in seeing how different The Impact Site has loads of pellets and no work on your multitasking and Pikmin management The Forest of Hope has tons and tons of Bulborbs The Forest Navel also has no enemies, which the area is normally. Instead you've just got to collect pellets a pretty good way to learn the area better The Distant Spring brings back baddies, including and Mamutas. I complained about those bosses not getting that they've got one more little chance The Final Trial has been heavily remixed in there weren't any before. Most interestingly, you can't sprout any on the field and you've just got to find It takes a lot of work to properly manage Longlegs to fight where the Emperor Bulblax I like how these levels play around with different They could have just given us some basic layouts made the challenge mode a unique sort of experience. The day lengths for each of the levels are in the main game, which is pretty interesting. I also like how the music is kind of sped urgency. In all honesty though, challenge mode just I feel like it SHOULD be my thing, because for new content. Yet I can never get myself to really engage Give me limits on day number and day length But give me one single day where I have to Sorry, timed score-chaser challenges are just It's just too much work and too much time up, and I just can't be bothered. It's cool that the option is there though. You can log your highest scores and I'm time. Another little tidbit that just never came If you press down on the D-pad, Olimar lies An onion will try to suck him up, but it won't I don't know, but it was pretty freaky the And look at that, little fireworks! How neat! This feature doesn't really have any practical And that's worth something, ain't it? And finally... FINALLY... Flying the ship around the map screen is really It's just kinda cool. And if you rapidly go left and right you can Yeah. Yeah I've spent...a LOT of time on this Teenager, adult, doesn't matter. Some things never change... FINAL ANALYSIS My friends, we have reached the end of this If you've ever wondered just why I'm so a clearer picture. Okay, well...I would hope the picture was I did not spare even the tiniest detail, did And this game was the perfect starting point I'm very glad I was able to play it when if I would have appreciated it as much if There are times when Pikmin 1 feels like a It's incredibly short, but that's not As you've heard me bring up several times underdeveloped. Some ideas don't really have room to breathe, Some of these ideas are great, but they're It's okay not to re-use the same enemies battles are over in mere moments I find myself times. It's not so bad when a game is short as particularly dense. There are some interesting or even devious parts are just kind of...there. It kind of feels like the environmental artists challenges were going to go where, so lots wherever. It's one thing for an idea to not overstay has worked for a lot of games. But sometimes the audience is left a little Furthermore, the Pikmin can be a little aggravating, Even if this adds to their personality, sometimes still need a lot of sharpening up. The sequels would end up bringing lots and them they make the flaws in this game stand There are even times when Pikmin 1 feels a It's just about there, but the devs needed it a full-length experience... And yet, that doesn't stop this from being Even after seeing the formula improved upon the first game any number of times. Even if the edges are a little rough and more to nail those basic Pikmin elements. Even if some of them weren't explored to to pack so many interesting ideas into the And even if the game isn't as dense as I to be consistently engaging. It all comes down to that core formula. The series has never sold particularly well, big, important IPs. But I honestly believe that even with this and underdeveloped-iness, they really landed Even when compared to the greater world of deep experience that not enough people appreciate. The combat is incredibly complex when you potentially offering a level of difficulty The basic concept of collecting and multitasking games endlessly replayable. There might not be another primarily singleplayer player with so much room to grow in skill. From the start of a Mario game to the end a fair amount. But from hour one of Pikmin to hour twenty get so much better you can't even fathom That's just how deep the formula is. Even here at the beginning of the series that Even here in the first game, what we've And because of that, I will always treasure Also, look at 'em. Just look at 'em. I love 'em. Well, I've got nothing else to say except We begin with a MASSIVE thanks to Kane for Editing, Olimar art, footage collection, chapter was all his doing. He completely immersed himself in the world know if he'll ever be the same... The gorgeous intro art was done by Ciro, who simply MUST go check out his other art right Many many thanks to him. Also, thanks to legendary Pikmin modder Pikhacker the tools we needed to make this review look Check out his Twitter and his Youtube channel And be extra sure to check out his latest remake of Pikmin 1 in Pikmin 2's engine! That's amazing! I most certainly owe thanks as well to my support, which makes it so, so much easier like this. And, I doubt he'll ever see this, but who Thank you sir for creating such a wonderful And thank you to the entire Pikmin team, as And finally, thank YOU. Whether you're a seasoned Pikmineer or you've long video essays, thank you so much for sticking Like I said, this is kind of the actual official keep my fingers crossed that you liked it, into JUST TOO MUCH detail. With that, we are done! It's...finished! *sigh*