Peace be upon you Bohemian Family. I hope you're having a very delicious It's Mino and Amina we're in Tunis, Tunisia. Tunis is home to a wide variety of hidden gems that most tourists don't know much about. Today, we'll take you deeper into Tunis to discover some of the most unique and authentic street food. Are you ready? Let's go! Someone told me that there's a great place to get breakfast around here. I think I found a place. Peace be upon you. Is this a place for Lablabi? / Yes. Our chef is slicing braised cow foot with unique Tunisian technique. Then he adds chickpea stew on shredded bread and pours spicy cow's foot broth over it. Oh Lablabi and cow foot together Now he's making Tunisian signature street food, Shan Tounsi. First, He mix the roasted salad, Harissa and tuna oil. Then he add a pouched egg, pickled vegetables, raw onion, potato, olives, preserved lemon, green chili, tuna, more harissa, olive oil and chili pickle. Thank you. It's time to make my own Lablabi. First grab your bowl wow what a huge Bowl. And put some bread. Everyone has different tastes when it comes to shredding bread. Chili sauce? / A little please. is this a bit? wow This is cumin. Salt Olive oil beautiful! thank you. Look at this beautiful egg yolk. In Tunisia, where food is often a mix of ingredients, poached eggs play an important role. The rich egg yolk pairs well with the spicy harissa and maximize the flavor of the dish. Bismillah Chef, it tastes good! Tender, spicy cow foot and hearty chickpeas pair perfectly with the broth-soaked bread. Everything is so tender, literally melting in my mouth. I think Tunisian people loves spicy food more than Korean people. This is typical Tunisian tuna salad. Tunisian people, they love half cooked eggs. I love this unique tuna salad! it's a fantastic combination of fresh vegetable, vegetable pickle, olives, pickled lemon, tuna with olive oil and harissa! Peace be upon you. Welcome to Casa Mia! / thank you. oh smells so good! It's made with leg of lamb Lamb foot? / Yes. This is Markat Melah. Is it made with beef? / Yes it is. It's Metheoma Alsan / ah? Metheoma Alsan cow tongue? / Yes. This is Kamounia. liver? / Yes, cow liver. Is this Madfouna? / Yes it is. is this also beef? we use beef and cow foot. Oh~ beef and cow foot?! Oh it's Osban!? We made it only for you. / Thanks. We will serve it with Couscous. oh, what is this? / Heads of Lambs. Lamb head! Wow~ Look so nice. Look over there! (too many people waiting for the food now) Peace be upon you all! Parsley This is totally different than moroccan Madfouna. Look at this lamb head with spices Look how tender it is! There's a lot of spices in his mouth. tongue Let me try the tongue first. it's so tasty and aromatic! This is my first time to try lamb head with a lot of spices. there is chili and very nice flavor of thyme. yummy eyeball of lamb Oh it's so juicy. so nice! so tender there's lamb brain! look at this stuffed lamb stomach Osban! I can't wait to see what's inside this lamb tripe. it's so full! This is traditional Tunisian food and it's very hard to find in restaurants. It's filled with meat, liver, parsley and rice with spices. I've tried similar food in Turkiye. but this is more spicy and more full! They look different on the outside, but the inside is the same. This Osban is wrapped with lace fat. The tender lace fat pairs very well with the spicy, savory filling. This lace fat is melting in my mouth and the parsley is so fragrant. Couscous with Osban It's perfect! with beef bowl and cow feet The tender cow foot and beef meatballs with a savory chard sauce are amazing. it looks so yummy! When they mentioned Madfouna, I thought it's like pizza but this is Madfouna of Tunisia. It's totally different than Moroccan Madfouna. Let me try one of my favorite parts, cow tongue. Oh my favorite part, cow tongue! Everything's tender here yeah Cow tongue with lemon and pickled pepper The next morning we headed to the Old City for a unique breakfast. Peace be upon you. Is this a Mlaoui? / Yes it is. And this is Chapati? We call it 'Batbout' in Morocco. Omelet This is for Mlaoui? I use omelet with Mlaoui or Chapati. This is Tunisian pancake 'Mlaoui'. It is similar to Moroccan pancake meloui, but Tunisian pancakes are not made with layers. Let me have one Mlaoui with omelet and everything. She spreads roasted salad, harissa and cheese on the Mlaoui. omelette salami Shall I do it in one layer or two? / one please. thank you. The combination of omelette, salami, and cheese in a soft pancake is just amazing. it's a perfect breakfast sandwich! Peace be upon you, how are you? What do you have here? / butter.... This is butter and Chamia. What is Chamia? Chamia is Turkish sweet. And this? / it's a jam. and honey Let me have one sandwich with everything. He spread butter, fresh cheese, sesame sweet Halwa and honey on the bread. Thank you. There are full of butter in it, it's much more tastier than my expectation. So yummy! It's so nutty, buttery, creamy and sweet. So nice! Cocktail juice mixed with date palm, milk, banana and apple. Bismillah It tastes so milky and sweet. So yummy! What a Heavenly combination! Peace be upon you. How are you sir? Welcome in dear. You have Ojja? / Yes, we have. So this is Ojja? /Ojja with sausage. This is Ojja with chicken. This is Ojja, a Tunisian spicy tomato and egg stew. The reason we're here is to get a taste of this spicy stew. This is our Ojja with squid, mussels, mushrooms, and Merguez. Ojja with everything He adds the top-secret spices and scary chili paste. Then he adds tomato sauce and mix them very well. Oh, They have Ojja with spaghetti. A little bit of cheese Parsley Chili This is grilled meat. Mixed grill, sausages, chicken and liver It is a great idea to use a heavy iron to caramelize the meat. He adds a bit of raw onion, parsley, chili pickles, olives and olive oil. Let me try Ojja royal. Oh there's a sausage here, Tunisian Mergueze. I like the spicy seafood flavor! Su yummy! this is spicy yes! Tunisian signature, half cooked egg! I love this spicy seafood stew Ojja! Tunisian sausages, beef liver and chicken three different meat in one skewer Grilled salad and tomato with harissa with egg One of the best things about Tunisia is that almost every order of food comes with a roasted salad, spicy harissa and egg. Sweet grilled liver with spicy Harissa if you like spicy food come to Tunisia! Is this apple? / Yes. and date plam This restaurant has a juice corner so you can have a refreshing juice after eating spicy Ojja. This is sesame. Chocolate Raisins Almonds Hazelnut And honey beautiful! It's only 3 TND. Look at this amazing juice with nuts and raisin! it's super nutty and sweet. It's so thick I can't drink it. it's almost like a pudding so you have to use a spoon. I think Tunisian people love this mixture of apple, banana, date palm and milk. and I love this combination as well, so genius! Don't forget to subscribe Bohemian Kitchen and hit the like button! Now we are in Sidi Bou Said, Santorini of Tunisia! For me it looks more like Chefchaouen. let's check it out. Peace be upon you. How are you, master of Bambalouni. Welcome, this is the capital of Bambalouni in Sidi Bou Said. original place That's so good! Are you Chinese or Japanese? Korea I worked in Ulsan in 2006. How long have you been making Bambalouni? How long you working here? ummm I've been working here for 10 years. Wow 10 years, bravo!! They only sell donuts with sugar. That's it. People flock to this small shop for this simple, original Bambalouni. Thank you. Look at this famous Bambalouni of Sidi Bou Said. Bismillah it's simply yummy! it's warm and sweet. I love this slightly sticky texture. it's just like Moroccan Bini. Do you have orange juice? / Yes. Let me have two please. wow I can't stop it. refreshing orange juice after oily Bambalouni! Thank God. Please like and subscribe Bohemian Kitchen ;)