Translator: Nadine Hennig Thank you. I must say I'm very impressed with the way I couldn't have said it better myself. (Laughter) About 25 years ago, I was in my final year of medical school, but I'd been doubting my career choice Then one day, I went to take blood [I] struck an artery instead of a vein. I still don't know how I did that. As blood spurted out all over the place, I said to myself, &quot;Yep, you're definitely (Laughter) So in the interests of all concerned, I dropped out and became a yogi instead. (Laughter) (Applause) Hence my unconventional appearance. Actually, it's not the only reason One of many shall we say. So I'd like to share with you the yogic concept of space, what we experience within ourselves and outer space, We live in a vast Universe. To give you some idea of its size, if we took the universe to be then our planet Earth the size of a pin head in comparison. A billionth the size of one of those. I'm holding up a pin, It's my prop. (Laughter) There you go. It's the same one. It actually is the same one. A billionth the size of one of those By the way, a billionth is about a millionth the size or about the average size of an atom, so take your pick. In any case, the idea is compared to the size of the Universe. So does that help put it in perspective? I think that gives us some idea An incredibly vast and complex Universe according to modern science, appeared out of nothing That's actually like that our phones and laptops without anyone designing them According to biologist Rupert Sheldrake &quot;Modern science is based on the principle, 'Give us one free miracle (Laughter) &quot;And the one free miracle of all the matter and energy and all the laws that govern it But modern science is to the conclusions to an explanation of our Universe that is going to take our understanding and that is that both the substance come from a deeper reality we normally perceive And that reality is consciousness. an all-pervading, blissful awareness, Just as your own consciousness cosmic consciousness It exists within everything, Essentially, everybody and everything Imagine that. However, we,for reasons have largely given up on the idea in our modern world view. In the last 100 years or so, modern science has come to What if though mind, matter, and space What if the possibility of consciousness were every bit as real as any And what if it could give us, some very real advantages and where we fit into it, compared to some very serious In a materialist world view of an arbitrary, mechanistic, there is every reason to feel alienated, And if we don't feel it ourselves, we all too often see it in others, Materialism doesn't engender On the other hand, there is every reason to feel inherently to feel loved, hopeful, happy, In the words of my guru &quot;You are never alone or helpless. The force that guides So rather than trying which makes us sad I believe, we should be trying to validate a worldview which gives us not just as individuals but as a society. The benefits of a conscious And it's potentially no less valid than any of our constructs This is not just wishful thinking. In fact, the essence is just as valid a premise The only difference is that one We can perceive matter with our minds but we can only experience We must find it within ourselves. There was once a Sufi mystic I actually stayed in his hometown And there are many stories about how he used to teach One of the stories goes and that he was looking for it one night outside under a streetlamp. A passerby asked him, what he was doing. &quot;I'm looking for the key to my house.&quot; &quot;Where did you lose it?&quot;, she asked. &quot;Somewhere inside my house.&quot; Then naturally she said: &quot;Well, if you lost inside your house, &quot;Because it's dark inside,&quot; he replied. (Laughter) We need to look for what Even if it's hard to look for it there. It's easy to look outside, According to yoga teachings, and so we must look for it there. But here's the catch, not intellectually. It's not something Take the case A light bulb is capable but not on the power which illuminates it. In the same way, we're capable but not the consciousness It's beyond the normal functioning beyond even thought itself. The core of our being is not something that can even be spoken I think, we're all familiar &quot;I think, therefore I am.&quot; But this is what yogic philosophy says, &quot;When I stop thinking then I really am.&quot; (Laughter) Just because we can't think of something, just because we can't prove doesn't mean it's not there. We can't prove but that doesn't mean it's not there. It's a matter of the heart, and matters of the heart So material science of what it really means to be human. We can only validate through the deepest internal About now, you might be thinking that this is all a bit Even I'm starting to think (Laughter) So I want to give you that have also acknowledged the likelihood There aren't many of them. But those that there are, I won't spend too much time on this, in fact I'll to try to finish (Laughter) Max Planck, the father of quantum theory, &quot;I regard matter as derivative We cannot get behind consciousness. Everything that we talk about, everything that we regard this from the pioneer of quantum theory. A bit later, the physicist &quot;The stream of knowledge is heading towards The Universe begins to look more like a great thought And I better throw in just to give it a bit more umph. (Laughter) &quot;The most beautiful and profound emotion we can experience It is at the root of all true science. That deeply emotional conviction of the presence which is revealed is my idea of God.&quot; Finally, I want to give you an example who actually experienced Dr. Eben Alexander is a neuroscientist bought into the idea that the brain Then, quite ironically, he contracted a very rare brain infection during which he experienced the heightened despite the fact that he was He said: &quot;During my seven days of coma, I not only remained fully conscious of beauty and peace I underwent the most my consciousness Dr. Alexander is now on a mission to convince the brain science &quot;graduate from kindergarten&quot; and move on from the idea Now, fortunately for you and I, there just so happens to be of validating consciousness I think you won't be surprised that that's going to be meditation. Meditation is intuitional science where consciousness is substantiated by purely first-hand internal experience. Through meditation, it's entirely possible as every bit as real as you and I Once I had a particularly where I felt the whole room vibrating with awareness and with bliss. It was so intense, so tangible. The feeling I had at the time It was undeniably real then and I still Through meditation, one has that ultimately lead Why don't we go ahead right now and try to experience higher Shall we give it a try? It might not have occurred to you that you'd be meditating today, So I invite you to the close Remember to breathe, and try not to fall asleep, And start off by the centering yourself. Focus on your sense of self. Feel the center of yourself. (Music starts playing) Now feel that you are completely at peace. Feel peace and happiness all around you. Feel infinite happiness all around you. Now feel that you are merging into Feel that your own sense into the infinite awareness around you. Feel that your own consciousness is merging into the infinite Feel yourself becoming one with it. Feel that you are one with it. Feel that you are it, and continue like that Now, doesn't that feel better? Dada Gunamuktananda: Yes? No? Anyway, you might have gotten that your own consciousness is one with the consciousness That it's within you That it's real, and that you can feel it, And not only feel it but know This is not just an abstract concept, It's about discovering within our own consciousness, realizing our own inner reality And the more we expand the more connected we feel to all beings. The happier we are, because we realize that all is a part of us, The inner quest facilitates all people, animals, plants... The planet. People, animals, and plants - yes, it's a no brainer- What I like to say is that just as the world with the development of communication so will the Universe with the development [&quot;Cosmic Consciousness abides in one's very heart's desire.&quot; Thank you. (Applause)