-All right. We're checking out the only game where to kill a hundred billion of a single slice of American cheese. It's Solar Smash. So Solar Smash had a brand new update, they now allow you to make part of This is possibly the most amazing thing tall, long, short, or whatever and so I have decided that I want to see how many people I can shove on a Now obviously we need to Although, I am kind of curious now. Does the invincibility area, is Like if I blow up the sun, completely unscathed or does Yes, the sun absolutely gets through it. The sun does not care about You can't spell yeet without y. So the obvious power here is in the that what you can do, hold on, is you you, you know, shave a little bit Oh yeah, that's nice and smooth. That looks delicious. It's like a fresh oatmeal on the surface of the Sun. Then you can take this part of the earth There we go. And now I-I basically but that's not all, Normally in the game, it would Hold on now, I can go ahead though, Let me make Florida. Actually that looks more like Australia. There we go. That's kind of like Florida. Actually, it's just the tip. Doesn't look so much like a planet. Looks like bad cammo. Anyway, now we can go ahead Now obviously, you need to we can shove on this sad sushi. You boys like intergalactic teriyaki? Actually, am I allowed to put land? Hold on, I'm kind of curious. Can I put land here? Like, does it count? Nah, that's all right, I Pretty sure that was Florida's tip is effectively a really long bra. I like to use my imagination these different shapes look like. This just looks like a water bottle All right, now that we've got all that Okay, I'd like to take a moment more people on this sad pickle Now one of the things that is amazing hold on, and you can and of course the dragon Yay. Although, I don't know what run into earth as the dra-- I just killed the dragon. I-I feel like that was I'm not gonna lie, a lot of Lamborghinis or something. If I could drive a Hmm. Dragons like pickles All right, I'm gonna try Florida's Department of Although hold on. I think it's pretty obvious drive this dragon into the sun. I need this dragon to blow up this sun. I feel like that's the Ouch. I don't know what happened. My dragon just didn't He was like, &quot;Hell no.&quot; Also, just digging through Hold on, I wanna put one Cthulhu-- Oh, He comes from the side. How big of a piece can he take? There's not much left, man. The hell was that? It was like a nibble. So luckily the Railgun does Crap. I was trying to core out the middle, I Now it just looks like a Okay, so if you remember, this was made originally, but now what I have I can get these things to work. Yeah, you know what, let's go sideways. Actually, hold on. Can I go like, can I go like this. I just wanna see if I can effectively just a French fry. All right, so to do this kind of quick-- Oh, here. Let's do this. Here we go. Oh, yeah, that- that's gonna help. A little bit down here too. It's, um, it's kind of like We're tenderizing the French fries. Here we are. Yes, go. I'm trying to find the fastest the outside to leave the stuff on What the hell? Oh my God. What did I do to the planet? It's like I ripped its face off. I skinned it like an apple. Uh, I think I may have Okay. That may have been because that There we go. Oh yeah. If I can't have my French Okay. I ended up killing everyone So here's the plan. I'm going to get this working. Okay. So right now everything's fine. The planet is still alive. Okay. Now what happens if I take making it thinner like that. All right. Oh yeah. Oh, here we go. Okay. So far so good, everyone on this planet much time trying to torture everyone Yeah, yeah, I know, We're getting there. Now we have like an earth bottle opener. Hey, bring it down a little bit more. This is going to work. It may be kind of like a steak an earth French fry, swear to God. And then I have to get it All right. Bring it in. [laughs] Okay, now we basically Okay, perfect. A little bit more. I don't want to go too far. Torture takes time. Okay. Yes, yes, it's working. The planet hasn't blown up yet. Okay. Now for the last chunk, poop, there. Let me have my French fry, Yes. Oh, we're going to have It's going to happen. Okay. We did it. Okay. So now that I have the now the land on it, I I don't have a lot of space to work Here we go. And now people want as I feel like this is one of those starting to go to space now at people are thinking about colonizing and they see this and They'd be like, &quot;Who built this planet?&quot; They'd be like, &quot;GrayStillPlays.&quot; They'd be like, &quot;No.&quot; Oh, hold on. I think I missed like a tiny little area There we go, there we go. Got it. Okay. Yeah. Perfect. A little bit more. Okay. French fry earth is ready. Now, I want to make it look-- hold on. I want to make it look legit. So, you know, put as Clouds. If I put like a ring around it, is it If a planet was shaped like like, gravitational field around Not like I'm a scientist or anything. All right, make it very Floridian. Okay, so now I can take There we go. There is 1.8 billion Oh, crap, I almost shot it by accident. Let me turn that off. I would- I would be in complete dismay Okay. So, all right. So you have French fry earth. So now, right, if I take Take this. All right, so now if I shrink it but all right, just hear me out now. Let's see if this works. I think once I put people but I'm going to try. Ah crap. One shot and everyone insta died. 1.8 billion people. That was-- Ah my planet What the hell? Ooh, I am dividing by Like, is there anything Hold on. Space dragon, ge-get in there. I want to see-- can I don't [?] get a Oh, I can't even get rid of the shield. Oh, I broke things in a way All right, no worries. We've got another planet Okay. So if I take this, I don't Like, is this even-- it is? There-there is space. Like it is one tigh-- Ah, that I had nothing to do with that. What I was trying to say is if I go but keep the middle still alive. Actually, I'm going to kill I don't do that enough. Okay, okay. So far so good. Yes, I told you, even if the game there's always a way to make it work. I just can't put any people on it yet. Otherwise it'll they'll It's because nobody's dumb enough to of light speed urine to their planet. Actually, what happens if someone That sounds like the All right. Get rid of this last There we go. Okay. And legit, look at this, for real, Okay. So now, right? Oh yeah. I can put land on it. Imagine if this game was used in, like, like, &quot;What did you do today at school?&quot; And the child is like, &quot;I turned and then I killed everyone on it.&quot; I mean, the dad would probably All right, Now I need to see exactly I feel like the original earth like, &quot;What did you do to my boy?&quot; All right. So we got our perfect earth onion ring. Get rid of that. Yeah, you can see the And now the big question is, on this sad potato chip? What the hell? How did I get more people living on There's eight billion I mean, I guess there is Now, if I send a moon right will it kill everyone, or will it just Damn it, why did ya'll have to die? Although it did keep the Hold on. I just don't want to So I have to urinate Perfect. Delicious. Or is it? What the hell? What the hell? What happened to the crust? Looks like an overcooked Um, well, maybe I can cool it. Oh, that makes it perfectly smooth. Woo. Yeah. Hold on. Oh yeah. Oh, that's beautiful. I'm making Zena's Okay. Something I-I dreamed of my whole life. Just a happy little mistake. There you go. I turned the earth into a wedding with a lot of freezer burn on it. Okay. Real quick, before I try and get I've got to feed my dragon. Okay. I'm not even sure. Hold on. I kind of want to see if I can This dragon would look &quot;Oh, maybe I'll just Clearly they already Oh God. I don't have insurance on this dragon. There we go. Oh yeah. Oh, this is totally working. Yes. I don't even know why I'm punching Hold on. Let me see if I can-- All right. He's winding up. He's going to end up splitting Look at that, it did almost zero damage Okay. New planet. And now I have the smallest All right. So now it's still like a urine stream of someone who abuses Please let this work game. I need to know. Okay. Now. Oh, here, here. Come on. Please work. Okay. And then a little bit over here. Oh, it's working. The people. [laughs] Yes. You kinda have to, like, move Hold on. This-- can you actually see? Yeah, you can- you can kinda see It actually just looks like There, I'll give you a 310 million people. Well, let me get rid of this. That is how many people live a lawn dart of the earth? I would say I'd give them a quick there's nothing that can't kill them. Like I could sneeze on this So hold on, let me Let me blow up the sun. Okay. There we go. So the sun's blowing up. Ah, crap. I hit a frigging asteroid. Okay. Now I just-- I need to know if this is-- Uh, nooooo. [chuckles] I wasn't sure. Maybe it was so small that it wouldn't Uh, yes. The sad bits of charred flesh of of earth are now dissolving. Is it gonna explode like Because there's no landmass to blow up. Like, there's nothing here. It's- it's just one tiny It did. It exploded like it was a whole planet. There's one last thing I need to see if this is possible. Okay. Cause you've seen like flat earth Okay. Now this-this, Oh yeah, to be able to live on here. Hey, go. Oh, yeah, there's a Actually, there's a bunch down here. I don't even know how someone could Behold, I give you Phillips Population, 11 billion people. Now I can finally say that Cthulhu, you know what to do. There's like one area where Yam-yam-yam. [laughs] 11 billion souls Anyway, folks, hope you enjoyed this Much love.