Hello, my loves! Welcome back to Lavendaire. Today I want to do a little more casual video. I'm sitting on the floor because I feel more casual here. I just wanted to talk about things you should I'm 29 this year. I just turned 29 in October. So this is the year that I'm turning 30, and I'm just enjoying this last year of my 20s, riding the wave, aging with grace, all of that good stuff. And you know, time is something that Time is so valuable. And so I guess I want to share some things that you should appreciate while you're young. If you're 20, if you're in your teens or whatever - actually, no matter what age you are - I think any of these things could apply to you. But I kind of had the idea for this video thinking back on this past decade and what I would have told that my 20 year old self. The first thing to not take for granted is 1) your health. Obviously when you are young, you're more capable. You have more energy, more stamina, And that seems pretty obvious, until you start getting a little older into your late 20s-30s, and you have friends in your 40s maybe, and you start to see how people's life choices accumulate to the point where their health is not good. You know, you can't just eat junk food every day. You can't do the things that you used to Something that I don't get to share often on my YouTube is my personal journey with Wilson, my boyfriend. His health is not so great - and if you want more details, and he's also really private, and he doesn't want me to share a lot of the journey. But it is, in our own personal life, And you just take for granted and you didn't have to worry about things like this. The irony is: When you're young, you have better health and those are more valuable than you think - but you don't have money. So you might have all these dreams and you're like, "I don't have the money to do what I wanna do." And you feel a little restricted and "I can't wait till the day I make enough money And the bittersweet/sad part is: I've seen friends be able to make money That part is set, but then their health is not good They're not able to do certain things in life that they could have done when they were young. They couldn't live so carefree or pain-free. And it's just the irony of life I guess, but also a reminder to take care of yourself, because it really is the best investment you can make The next thing you should actually learn to 2) you don't have everything figured out. I remember in my early 20s, I was so frustrated that I didn't have the I didn't have my life figured out. I didn't know how to be that successful woman And I couldn't enjoy my college years because of these anxieties and worries about the future. Looking back, it's actually a good thing that It's really exciting because that means that the opportunities are endless, go explore and discover yourself, learn what you love, learn about the things that make you come alive. And that is just a really fulfilling journey to be on. So it's okay to not have everything figured out, because if you did have everything figured out, "Okay, I know what I have to do But if you don't have anything figured out, then that gives you the opportunity to I feel like the most magical moments in those weird phases when we are challenged and just figuring things out, open to any possibilities. The third thing to not take for granted is that 3) you have less burdens and less responsibilities when you are in your 20s. Sure, this is the time when you are starting to because you're out of college and But still, those are the years where you're more free I think the older you get, the more responsibilities start to pile on, the more obligations and burdens. And what that means for you is: more freedom to take risks with your life. So if you have less people counting on you, no mouths to feed, no house to pay for yet, then you have more freedom to take bigger risks. And you should take the biggest risks That is a piece of life advice I got when I was in college, and it's one of the best pieces of advice I've ever gotten, to remind yourself to take risks while you're young, because if you take a risk, then you have If you play it safe and never take any risks, then your life is just going to stay within You might not reach your fullest potential. Because you have less burdens and responsibilities, Take more risks because honestly, The fourth thing I already alluded to, Time is really the most valuable - - commodity(?), because it's something It's something that you can't get back so you have more time and you should utilize that time to figure out what you want, who you want to become, what life you want to create for yourself. In your 20s, you really have the rest of your life I mean, you can honestly start any age. You can start at age 50 to create your dream life. But just think of how much more you can do, how much more you can dream when you are young. All the opportunities are endless and 5) Because you have more time, I started investing at 26 and I wish I started earlier. I wish I started in college. I wish I had learned about compounding interest and the value of investing early, because honestly, time grows your money. I made a video about investing and how to get started, in the card here and down below. But this is me explaining compound interest. "Compounding just means when you earn interest Imagine you invest $100 and it gives you So in one year you'll have $106. So, what you do is: So you have $106, you invest that at 6% a year, and then after another year, and have $112.36, which is a bigger number to start with. And you invest at 6% again, and on and on and on, until your money grows exponentially like this. It really is: math. Basically, you make your money work for you without you actually putting in any physical work. That is called "passive income" You're making money while you're sleeping Your money is just growing itself Honestly compounding is magical Obviously if you have credit card debts pay off your debts first before you start investing. I talk about all of those preliminary things but it's a good time to start It's a good time to learn about investing. It's a good time to learn and be financially literate. Once you learn and understand how it works, you will be able to save and make so much The sixth thing to not take for granted is 6) your ability to travel and see the world Don't wait until you are older and have money to travel, because you can make it happen. You can make it work now, or even not travel to a very faraway place, Just see the world. Go on adventures. Have fun because when you're young, it will always be enriching to see a new place, learn about new cultures, meet new people. You will never regret traveling, because it's really something that will It's magical to travel when you're young because 2) Everything is so exciting to you. You see everything with fresh eyes There are so many things you can enjoy in And I am just going to say this, that I experienced traveling super low budget in college. When I studied abroad, I did backpacking living in hostels just with one backpack for like 10 days and different countries, and it was so cheap. We would eat McDonald's every day. But I had so much fun and that is such a unique experience that Not necessarily backpacking but just you know, traveling, seeing the world when you're young, Even if you have no money, you make it work. And on the flip side, I've also experienced super bougie five-star hotel or resort-type traveling, like really luxurious stuff. And that is fun too, but it's a different kind of fun. I definitely feel like you want to be able because if you wait till you have money For example: Now at age 29, where we will spend more money for comfort and we're not going to be dirty or grimy. There's a certain kind of fun when you're broke and you just make adventures together everyone's standards have gone up and so you have a different type of travel experience. Honestly, if you ask me now to camp in the desert or stay in a hostel or travel through Europe I have standards, I need AC. I want my own personal space and, although that's a part of growing up and because you make more money and whatever, I'm so grateful for those experiences And I think it's such a waste when people because they're like, after I make more money,&quot; blah, blah, blah. And it's just - you know, don't waste time. Just have fun. Enjoy it, because each experience are fun, fulfilling, and valuable. Another thing you should not take for granted I noticed that when you graduate college, there are a couple of years when you try to keep in touch with the people that were your friends, and then you might meet new friends through work But I just noticed that year after year, as you get older, if you don't make a constant effort, Your social life becomes quieter and quieter and quieter, especially if you're an introvert like me. And you don't really feel like texting people It really starts to get quieter in your late 20s, and then your friends start having babies, they get married, people move on with their lives, they're very focused on their career or whatnot. And you realize that if you care about someone you have to make an effort to stay connected, to see them, to talk to them, It takes effort, guys. When you're in school, it takes no effort they're in your class, they live next door. And now it's like, you have to travel I feel like my friends are scattered throughout so I don't get to see people as often. I see people like once a month, or once a year for some of my friends. I just reunited with a friend who lives in China like eight years ago, so things like that, right? And I also want to remind you that it is never too late to reconnect with people that you care about. It's never too late to rekindle an old friendship. It's okay, you know? People drift apart and then if you really care about them, you might want to check in and see how they're doing. And it's okay to - you know, it's not awkward. Don't make it awkward. Just because you drifted apart doesn't mean Your friends are what you make of them. The next thing to not take for granted and I understand not some of you is: 8) to spend more time with your parents. Spend time getting to know your parents. I feel like the relationship with your parents, by the time you're in your teens, you're just like sick of it and you want to get out and live your life. And then in your 20s you start to realize and you start to realize that you might not just depending on how old your parents are And that is something that is a harsh reality As we get older, our parents get older. So you are essentially running out of time I noticed that in my 20s was when I started to see their flaws, and to learn to accept them put myself in their shoes, and start to when they, you know, gave birth to me, when they were raising me, when they were young, because I am now at that age and that is kind of crazy. You start to have more empathy for them and I realize a lot of people don't even have real deep meaningful conversations with their parents. It's all like short one-word answers and not really deep. Something that you might be missing out on You know, how was their childhood, how was These are questions that you can ask them And if they're not here anymore, as sad as that might sound, you don't get to know those things, because you know, there wasn't social media back then. You can't just read their blog posts or whatever. I'll be honest with you: At this age, all I see on my Facebook feed baby photos, or death of family or loved ones. That is all I see on Facebook. It's kind of sad, but those are the big life moments. And so you know, year after year, you see people pass and you see people go, and you just realize that-man, life is short. Live your life the way you want to. And also, you know, tell the people you love, Get to know them, learn their stories, I know it's a little sad, but I mean, it is what it is. The last thing to not take for granted in your 20s is 9) your zeal and excitement for life. Not to say that you can't have zeal or excitement but when you're in your 20s, you are just so fresh-faced and You have so much energy to change the world. I noticed a lot of young people are just really progressive and just really excited to make a positive impact, and I think that is so important and so essential. The thing about when you're young and inexperienced, although you have all this energy, people don't take you as seriously, You might feel like, "Oh, I'm not good enough to express I need to have more experience in order to do this." But it's not true. You have a voice and you can start making You don't have to prove yourself. You don't have to have experience and then do it - just do it, because the truth is: the world needs people with energy and zeal, people that want to change the world. And it is kind of true, from what I've seen, that when people get older, they lose their energy Or maybe they get jaded and there's something you had when you were just like, And I, for sure, was more energetic back then, to do really random things, to say yes to to just work hard and prove myself. And I think it's just part of the cycle of life. You're young, energetic, naive, and you make mistakes. But when you're older, you're tired, you go slower, but you're wiser and more experienced, and you see the world in a more well-rounded view. I feel like I'm talking like an old person, when I really am not - I still feel very young, I'm still 29. And I know that there are so many more years but you know, a decade is a significant amount of time. So for me at 20, to me now, has been But yeah, I hope that this video was interesting to you, and I hope that you just live your best life. Just make the most of all the time to be morbid: We are all dying. Everyone is dying. It's not just the people who are sick that are dying. You and I are dying each day, We're getting closer to death and that's not a bad thing. That's life. That's natural and it's normal. It's just a way to remind you that time is It's something you can never get back. So don't waste any time living a life living a life that is not aligned to your authentic self, and all the things that we talk about on Lavendaire. Let me know what you'd add to this list in Sending you so much love. Bye! - Today is October 21st which is my birthday. - Happy birthday! Today we're doing a cooking class. We are at the markets, gonna buy some spices.