During the mid-7th century ruled over the largest territory that Leading this vast empire was a cunning who was popular among his people but His obsession with collecting knowledge led him which has been referred to as &quot;the most precious Ashurbanipal, whose name means "Ashur Neo-Assyrian capital of Nineveh in 685 BC. by his great-grandfather Sargon the Second, Ashurbanipal's grandfather, Sennacherib successful rulers who had helped form the Upon conquering Egypt in 671 BC, Ashurbanipal's father became the first ruler in King Esarhaddon suffered from a severe skin heading back to Egypt to put down a rebellion. Ashurbanipal was appointed heir to the majority claimed the title, "King of the Universe". army to crush the rebellion that his Ashurbanipal defeated the rebels with ease The city of Thebes was so thoroughly the Hebrew Bible as an example of the By 665 BC, Egypt was once again under the Ashurbanipal appointed an Egyptian The prince had been captured several years earlier and forcibly re-educated as Shortly after installing Psamtik as pharaoh to a new threat on the other side of his empire. advantage of Ashurbanipal's prolonged absence in The surprise attack was and King Urtak died shortly thereafter. grew tired of his inferior position as King of Unbeknownst to Ashurbanipal, his brother in an effort to destabilize his rule. attack on Elam in 653 BC, which culminated in the There, Ashurbanipal won a decisive The king described his victory by saying: "With them. I cut off their heads before one another. the warriors and people of Elam. For three instead of water. Like the onset of a terrible I cut off the head of Teumman, their king, - of his warriors I slew. With my hands, I I filled the plain. Their blood I let run down In this relief sculpture, Ashurbanipal and as the severed head of King Teumman Thus, by the end of the 650's BC, in expanding the Assyrian Empire to the These palace reliefs found in Nineveh, show the king taking part in the Lions were viewed as menaces for centuries and to protect the Assyrian people from its enemies. Shamash-shum-ukin eventually Shamash-shum-ukin was greatly outmatched and managed to sustain his cause for several years by In reference to the situation with "In these days Shamash-shum-ukin, the treated well and had set up as king of Babylon, I made and gave him; soldiers, horses, chariots, plantations, together with the people who live father had ordered. But he forgot this kindness with his lips, he was speaking fair words while Despite building a notable cause was futile as his brother's armies laid itself which eventually fell in 648 BC. and his family either set themselves on fire in by the attacking Assyrian soldiers. his brother and his allies by saying: "The cast Shamash-shum-ukin, my hostile brother, who conflagration and destroyed him. As for the people and did evil, but who were afraid of they did not cast themselves into their lord. Not one escaped; not one sinner coaches, palanquins, his concubines, the goods As for those men and their vulgar mouths, and plotted evil against me - I slit their tongues fed to the dogs, swine, wolves and eagles, to With his brother gone and the civil war over, for all their sins against the Assyrian people by all of its inhabitants and leaving it in ruins. "Susa, the great holy city, abode of I conquered. I entered its palaces, I opened and wealth were amassed... I destroyed the horns. I reduced the temples of Elam to naught; The tombs of their ancient and recent I carried away their bones toward the of Elam and on their lands I sowed salt." King of Elam, Humban-haltash, being forced Ashurbanipal enjoyed torturing defeated through the jaw of a king and forced him to Ashurbanipal decided against appointing any incorporate the region into his empire, Choosing to ignore Elam proved to be a fatal migrate into the abandoned region, rebuild the in the eventual downfall of the Assyrian Empire. was the final major military He had been at war for nearly 25 years by Anatolia and Babylonia, as well as With his massive empire finally at peace, to more scholarly pursuits. systematically organized library, called "The referred to as "The Library at Nineveh". tablets and wanted to own a copy of He commanded hundreds of scribes to and make copies for his library. his library by saying: "I, Ashurbanipal, King intelligence, I have placed these tablets for my life and for the well-being of my soul, Ashurbanipal himself was a voracious reader of surviving tablets bear his royal mark, indicating Ashurbanipal had been trained in the scribal made him feel far superior to previous kings. intelligence, saying: "I studied the secret lore and terrestrial portents. I can solve the most not have a solution. I have read intricate tablets are difficult to unravel. I took my pleasure The best of the scribal art, such works as none of The prolific English writer H.G. Wells referred to source of historical material in the world&quot;. of Nineveh in 612 BC and lay destroyed palace until English archeologist Layard took over 30,000 tablets from the library at the British Museum in London ever since. was "The Epic of Gilgamesh", the great flood story that predated the Bible. literary masterpiece and is widely regarded as the In 631 BC, after 38 years on of unknown causes at the age of 44. sons erupted over the throne, weakening the enemies becoming restive. led by a rebel leader named Nabopolassar, who and crowned himself king of Babylon in 626 BC. to the Neo-Babylonian Empire, which went King Nabopolassar formed an alliance with and Scythians against the Assyrian Empire. capital of Nineveh and in response, the final the Second, fled to the city of Harran which The king formed an alliance with his Egyptian no match and they suffered a devastating It's unknown whether King Ashur-uballit the Second from historical records after the battle. Neo-Assyrian Empire, as its lands were divided Thus, the empire that Ashurbanipal and through which he made profound contributions after only about 20 years after his death. Ashurbanipal controlled the largest and built the greatest surviving collection Consider liking, commenting, bell icon below for more videos like this. to help in the creation of new videos.