- You're going to learn the three steps to help you tap into the power of reflective listening skills. And after the tips, you'll have in real time with me. So you'll leave this video and I'll give you some pro tips at the very end to help you Be sure to look in the description below for a list of all the other and a link to a free download on the Top 5 Essential Communication A basic definition of reflective so you understand what and then reflect or show the speaker that And this is why reflective You are helping people I mean, what price would you put on that if somebody was really hearing you and really understanding you? Your reflective listening will also help the other person That speaker has the opportunity through an issue. Sometimes all they need and listening like this Let's talk about what It's not listening to Obviously in the course of a relationship it's possible that advice maybe even near the end But giving advice is not part of reflective listening specifically. So if you're a fixer like I am sometimes reflective listening You have to resist the temptation to short circuit the in with advice before the Counselors and therapists use reflective listening constantly. I'm not a therapist, but in your personal or family relationships. If you're a coach, teacher, a you can use elements in lots of situations. In fact, you probably you make reflective statements. If your wife tells you, I to my sister, you might reply, you did it. If your best friend says, on my shoulders, you might Those are little reflective statements and reflective listening just dives deeper into those waters. So here are three steps. Then we'll practice, and I'll First, your top priority to understand the other person. We'll usually be listening but we could also be listening But just realizing in the calls for some reflective Unless you're a counselor, and starts talking, it's the other person needs from you. So as they talk, listen to You might be able to tell that and they may be generally upset. For example, you can sense or difficulty that they're going through. That's usually a first indicator that you should go into This is where you say to yourself, okay something's bothering them. Now let's do some reflective listening and see where it goes. So I'm starting with this point because for the average that a conversation is going You might normally be Either way, once you realize for reflective listening, then listen for anything that gives you clues about this specific emotion or cognitive struggle Second, make a reflective statement. What exactly is bothering them? Your goal is to understand of sophistication that If all you can express is that then start there and reflect that. But if you can tell specifically that they are anxious, insecure, or hurt, then you'd reflect back to them that level of detail and nuance. Maybe they're showing having mixed or layered emotions. Whatever it is, you and make a short statement what you're hearing. The goal of your statement is to show that you are trying to understand them and it also gives them the opportunity to express themselves a little further. Here are some starter samples and will practice these I'm going to fill in the but these samples work It sounds like you're you're feeling helpless about Those reflective statements are all about different emotional words. The speaker likely already said to them, but some people about how they think versus how they feel. For example, they might about a big decision or trying to understand on in a situation. So here's what a reflective When the person is talking you sound like you are You're not sure what to make of all of it. It sounds like you're not Whether you're talking about their emotions or their thoughts, let's point to some quick commonalities. First, these are all statements in a minute. They're also concise and that's important because when you're listening reflectively the other person is the one So keep your part concise. Here are some additional You're wondering if, And then you would of of that statement with whatever Common question I hear is, well what about asking them questions? Well, yes, you can ask questions to clarify your own understanding in the course of the conversation. That's part of effective If asking a question helps you understand something better than ask, you can also make reflective statements and add a small tag sentence. Here are some samples. Let's assume you just made and you can add a brief tag. Am I tracking with you? Is that accurate? Am I understanding you clearly? Tag questions can be a helpful way to invite the other person to clarify or tell more of their The part of your statement struggle is what makes The act of asking a question is not what makes it reflective listening. Reflective listening and clarifying what the other In fact, if this were a video we would probably advise of full-blown questions when you are in reflective listening mode. But quick tag questions may be helpful if it fits your style. So here's the heart of it. You can see in the few samples we've looked You're not telling them what you believe you're not speculating about what you think You're not directing or to where you think they provide your own label or You're not trying to change their mind or help them see things differently. I say this because I know immediately try to reframe to them so then they know That's not reflective listening. Remember what I said earlier, A good reflective statement exactly what you believe The basic impression that you're getting there's a neutrality to it. It's concise, reflective but when you see it in action it's much more straightforward And third, after you have you go right back into pure listening mode and let them respond. You zip it and let them and this is really simply going back to step one, but I'm calling it step three because this is a process, going back into pure the circle, the other to what you have reflected, your feedback. Step three is not offering advice. In other words, you're the opportunity to process and The speaker will usually or sometimes in between. They'll either show agreement, frustrated about it, or I wouldn't exactly say frustrated. I'm just annoyed that it's taking so long. And then the conversation would continue listening. And even if you're a little off in your reflective statement, explore and increase When you pitch back that gives them the they're experiencing at arm's length. They might even use the hear you reflect that they have the opportunity is that really what I'm feeling? That reflective process leads to more clarity for the speaker. As the conversation moves forward you just go back into step number one and repeat that a few You listen carefully to understand and get an impression of You make a reflective into pure listening mode as they respond. Let's practice this together. I'll summarize the and I'll put some sample up and you'll practice your Again, listen for the feelings your reflecting back what you hear. We'll do three quick scenarios from easiest to most difficult. Scenario one is the easiest. Let's say I come to you to talk for the last six months and And somewhere in my story I say I feel exhausted and overwhelmed. In your mind, what am I feeling Identify my emotion and pause Now you'll reflect back what you've heard. Say this out loud with with whatever emotion you It sounds like you are You feel if you said anything close to exhausted or overwhelmed, And that was designed to be the easiest because I literally said I You may have had to adjust match what I was saying, but to exhausted or overwhelmed, That was designed to be the that I was exhausted and overwhelmed. But again, even if you used another word that would give me the and keep talking from there, and even though these statements if you were the person speaking and somebody did reflective listening you would feel heard and understood. So it doesn't sound but it absolutely makes Scenario two is a little In this scenario, I won't and I'll give you what I'm an appropriate name and reflect that back. So here's the scenario. I've come to talk about I need to make that's tearing me up. I don't know if I should In your mind, what do Identify my struggle and Now reflect back what you heard. Say these statements allowed with whatever emotion you It sounds like you are feeling. You are about that. You feel. If you said anything like it sounds like you are then you're on the right track. I didn't tell you all the pros and the cons of job A versus job B but you could tell that I Scenario three will be And here's a hint for you. Sometimes people feel Maybe there's something and that's what's happening So here it is, I'm moving to a new location a few of a professional opportunity. On the positive side, I think I'll excel in this role and that gets me fired up. On the negative side, I don't know anybody in this new community and I'll be far from all I'm not sure if I'll So in your mind, what do Identify both sides of my struggle. And pause the video if it helps. Now reflect back what you heard. We're only going to do so do your best to fill in the It sounds like you are feeling both. And now the good news is. There are multiple right Here are a few good ways to It sounds like you're and negatives about this move. It sounds like you're feeling both excited and nervous about this move. And even if you simply or you feel mixed emotions those are still pretty good And feel free to rewind and practice the three scenarios again because simple starter for almost any situation and Here are some pro tips to as you move forward. First, reflect back at the same level of Reflective listening can that you may feel stupid saying these reflective statements. To you, it might seem really obvious to say you're feeling anxious or it sounds like you're And on the one hand, that might be true. If the person is talking for five minutes and you by saying you feel bad, then That's so obvious. It's probably not helpful. To avoid that overly simplistic feeling, do your best to understand at the same level of showing you. That might mean you reflect for how they're feeling pivotal details of what they've just said. Just be sure to be concise and not take over the conversation Now, on the other hand, at how helpful reflecting for some people. I was talking to somebody to me seemed obviously realized it themselves. They told me that their therapist like you're feeling depressed. And that was a very helpful in their therapy session. And that leads to pro tip number two, build your vocabulary for For example, you may want and you'll see a circular diagram with basic emotions on the inside of the wheel and increasingly each layer moving outwards. So sad would be a basic emotion but loneliness is a more Scared is a basic emotion but anxious or embarrassed So as you improve your you'll be able to that people are experiencing That adds clarity and adds value because the other person and understood. And third, reflective These are fundamental skills but you will get better the more you do them. You might feel a bit like a robot at first but practicing will make Your timing will be better. Your non-verbal cues will be better. Those are good components and all the related skills at with practice. You may feel more relaxed in time and that'll help the So go out there and start practicing you get better at it. Be sure to download that about the five essential that all professionals should have and a list of other listening Until next time, thanks. God bless and I will see you.