Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, we are going to learn about 5 tips Now, let's begin. People treat charisma like this intangible don't. It feels like certain individuals are just Somehow, they can express themselves in a They can motivate, rejuvenate, and comfort But is charisma really innate and intangible? The truth is... charisma is a social skill A 2012 study tested this by measuring whether perception. At the beginning of the study, researchers a speech. When they finished, the audience rated how Unsurprisingly, most of them didn't do so Over the next few months, these managers were They learned how to adjust their voice, language, Once they completed their training, the managers Sure enough, their audience awarded them significantly Their training had increased their likeability, into more effective leaders. In a professional environment, these three So how did they do it? How exactly does training make someone more Scientists have identified over a dozen strategies, tactics" or CLT's. These tips are designed to transform the way In their eyes, you'll appear more persuasive, Your coworkers will see you as a natural leader, Of course, CLT's aren't reserved for the A 2018 study found that the majority of people of professional settings. Unlike most social traits, people have a pretty Generally, it has two dimensions: influence In other words, a charismatic person will them feel calm and secure. So what can we learn from this discovery? It tells us that training focused on charisma manager. It can dramatically improve your relationships, a boost in every aspect of your life. But here's the best part about CLT's. They can increase your charisma right off Many of these tips take some time to master, in the way people interact with you. Whether you want to become a well-respected these 5 tips to increase your charisma right 1. Connecting Language you might have trouble engaging other people When giving speeches, do you find your audience Even during casual conversations, a lack of and uncomfortable. So what techniques can you use to engage others You can start by changing how you express Imagine you're trying to explain your job You ramble on for fifteen minutes about the that they aren't listening and they don't So why couldn't you hold their interest? Chances are, you made a very common mistake When that person asked you about your job, You were probably thinking about the most But charismatic language isn't about being It's about finding ways for other people Often times, that means simplifying or rewording exactly what you mean. Comparisons are one of the most effective Instead of rambling about your job, use a what you do. Let's say, for example, you describe yourself That comparison might mean a lot more to someone So, if you want to engage your listeners, Remember that your goal is to connect with 2. Promote Engagement other people in your speech. Great public speakers use this technique all Even though they're standing on a stage, make you feel like you're apart of the program. You're much more likely to stay focused role to play. Like metaphors and similes, these opportunities your audience. Each time you give them the chance to weigh opinions and perspectives. People are much more likely to listen when But what does an opportunity for involvement Say you're giving a presentation in class. Normally, your classmates stop paying attention an easy way to engage everyone in the room Ask them a question that leads into something Let people raise their hands and solve the Then, once you've given them a chance to This simple change will make whatever you you got your audience involved. Even if they don't care, people will listen right or wrong. If you can't physically engage people, rhetorical You can actually use them a couple different You can ask challenging questions to encourage Or you might use obvious questions to make The fact that one answer is so apparent to We've been using examples related to public 1 on 1. People will find you more charismatic if you you're saying. You're showing that you care, which makes 3. Express your Creativity as creative? It's probably not the first word that comes But charisma and creativity go together more We admire people who can express themselves Think about your favorite writers, artists, You love their work, because of how it makes You can relate to the emotions they've captured In one way or another, their work affects and influential. But that's not the only reason we find creative Many people spend their lives trying to set They want to show the world that they have Well-known creative people have done exactly They've expressed their personal vision They discovered a way to stand out, making You'll find that people admire creative But only when you're confident in yourself. If you are, people will envy your fearlessness While your goal should never be to make people because you were unafraid to express your 4. Revealing Integrity Before people will listen to a word you say, the truth. They need to know that you have their best So where does trust come from? When deciding whether or not to trust someone, Everything from the way someone dresses to your perception of their character. This is especially important when giving speeches You don't have enough time to make promises to establish your credibility. That's why this CLT is to show the quality Prove to your audience that you're worth You might try empathizing with their struggles. Or you might tell a story to demonstrate the If you give people a reason to believe in 5. Lofty Goals Gandhi and Martin Luther King, Jr. have earned and their followers. When they began their movements, they weren't These leaders wanted to change the entire And they genuinely believed they could make Their followers knew that their leader was matter how impossible it sounded. This kind of confidence is one of the charismatic It's what makes people consider you an inspiring Your conviction will motivate others to follow of success. But you don't have to be a leader to put By strongly believing in both yourself and support and their respect. Thank you for watching TopThink, and be sure is on the way.