In this video, we're going to help over 100 different stray dogs Something is that they were abandoned Some of them by the time this video was uploaded, which is why we brought all of them to get every one of them adopted. And to show you We have an army of trainers, walkers to giving the dogs scratches. Make sure they get lots of love. I want the doggos happy. And the doggos were happy, especially once the first Welcome. Come on in. What? You're going to adopt a dog Yes, we want a small dog And if you're wondering where these two random we spent hundreds of thousands of to get - What do you think of Biscuit? If you're interested, and let them play together. Yes, that would be amazing. - Oh, they're running together. We love her. You want to proceed Yes, please. We love her so much. One down, 99 More to go. We got you cornered. They're all cheering him Whoever adopts Rocky, And something you should know. Every person Hi baby! - All right you're free, Barkley. I think we're going to do it. Is first put through extensive by an independent third party person. To make sure they'll be able to - Barkley's been officially adopted. Congratulations. And when the Let's go find you guys a dog. They notice a dog right away. Oh, look at this. He's ready. How many dogs? As many as you can carry, baby. Charlie and Nugget. They're getting along so well. And after saying goodbye things began to pick up. Hi! I'm Karl, you want to meet a dog Yeah, that's kind of Chandler, nice to meet you. How's it going? Hi. You strike me as someone He's cute. It's the end of day But obviously, the cute, Getting all 100 dogs adopted but at least on day two. Thanks to our ad campaign, Oh my God. Here's a Oh my gosh. The objective is to hit them with Seems to be working. - I like this one. - You want to take Hansel? There's so many people in here. I don't know what to do. Oh my God! - I'm taking the dog home. There we go. In case you're wondering, It means they got adopted. I want both! See if you can convince them There is a buy one, - They're both free. Let's get these two. I think you are the one for me baby. We rolling, Rocky out. Chandler is introducing people to dogs. Karl's hanging out to make sure they don't And Nolan is the closer Plus, we have, like, 50 other people doing everything in their power We have a well-oiled machine running to a loving home. And on top of that, every adopter So are you guys certain - Yeah. Then I have a surprise for you. Every dog that gets adopted, they also come with free I should probably turn this with Free pet food for life Get out. I think I'm going to cry. Do we get food for life? That does not Thanks to Spot and Jinx, premium pet food and insurance Let's go! Thank you! Which literally means free dog food shows up at their door Oh, my God. Look at that. Thank you! What kind of angel is doing this? It's my friend Jimmy. Well, tell your friend Jimmy thank you. But that was when I met having previously adopted And so we took her to see some dogs, right away. That's her, Dane. And she's going to meet Zoey Let's see if they get along well. The butt sniffs. We need you to be extra nice to Zoey. Look at them running around. Zoey is going to be extra And because now with Zoe, she'll be How awesome. We wanted to surprise her We're also going to give you $10,000 Get out. As long as you promise I do that for nothing. Now you're doing it - No way. I rescued so many babies. Because I just love them. Yeah, absolutely. You're going to give her And even though it was a chaotic day, by the end of day two, But we noticed there was one dog who got passed up by families more than any other that day. This dog's name is Buffet He only has three legs which unfortunately means he may just be the hardest dog So this is my favorite dog His name is Buffett. He only has three legs. But luckily for Buffett, we had a few new strategies for tomorrow over 50 dogs to get adopted. So the first strategy we used was I let everyone into the park they can choose their own family. You got a camera So beautiful! Have you decided on the baby's name? We think Hershey. Hershey? Good dog name, Yeah, you can just jump in there. We won't lock you in. All right. You can't leave So what do you say? - Yeah, why not? - I'm just kidding. - You think this might be the one? You want to go home with me? And since we were getting it was time to have Boys, what am I doing? Lay down and pretend to be asleep Oh, she just came in. Hi. Stay asleep, hold it. - Is he asleep? He just tucked him in. Now get up and say Guess nap time's over. And now go back to sleep. Bro they think he's crazy. Look at her face. But all jokes aside, we were finally getting more people Oh, he likes you guys. Buffett might be about to find a family. But unfortunately. Are you thinking Tanner or Buffett? We need to get Tanner. Do you want to take Buffet back? Yeah, I think so. And we'll go take a look Ok. So we try it again with these two. He's a sweetheart, and But once again. So you don't want Buffet. - I can't take him. And to be honest, guys, made us really sad, on a customized buffet We will not rest As you can see, because people are just not looking And since that's all we have left, the further we go, the harder Some of these dogs are from a facility because they're unable to refuse They're often overcapacity and have to put down their dogs But fortunately, And up next, we're on day number four. And this time we have Dave Bautista, who you might recognize Thank you. This one's your favorite. She's so loving. She's working her magic. Don't give me that look. She's like, - You're usually the adopter. I have four. Might be five soon. Yeah. Look at us, we both With everyone's dogs picked out. It was time for Dave's This time Dave's doing the adoption. Let's see how good of an actor Dave, when they walked in, bark It's an everyday thing for me. Oh, it's kids. Hello. How are you? All right, you can stop. You can stop. I don't want to make it Sorry for barking. And we have a prize for you. We have a huge prize for you guys, Free pet food for life, from Jinx. And we also have pet insurance Oh, wow. But wait, there's actually There's actually one more surprise. And then go to the beach painting, turn it around and show them what Do we get the picture? I hate Guardians of the Galaxy. No way. Thanks guys. With Dave now part of the team, faster than ever before. How's it going? Oh, they're so cute. - Are you taking both of them? You can't separate. - Let's go get the paperwork ready. And soon enough, we were approaching the final ten Hi baby! Dave, you keep coming back to her. I have a dog named Penny, So it's already I hate seeing her without a home. If no one takes her - If one adopts her, you'll take her? I'm going to hold you to that. She's going to have a home And it wasn't just Doralee. After getting passed up again Buffett seemed like But then something unexpected Buffett seems pretty cool. My grandpa had - Can I take him for a walk? Buffett seemed to warm up - Come on hop-along. Buffett and this guy didn't seem phased So I've seen three legged dogs I'm feeling I think Buffett You want to go home with Buffett? Yeah. He seems like good dog. And to ensure that Buffett has the best possible we also had a custom and were able Buffett found a home. Now we got to get rid of his kennel. Buffett, we miss you already. It's bittersweet, but it feels good We'll miss you, Buffett. It is now the start of day five. Only ten doggos remain. We've made As there's less dogs, there's less So obviously this is just And to kick off today Who are looking to adopt dogs. You might know Neil because he lost You might know Dustin because It's a lot better than a million. And while you're looking for dogs, on getting dogs adopted, don't plan Please. For the love of God, - Of course. Surfshark is a private network provider. VPN, that lets you access content as well as browse the web safely Surfshark was also kind enough to give this shelter $50,000 So you should watch this ad. What do you think of Cocoa? - I think... Sometimes content is only available Luckily, Surfshark has 3000 servers so you can watch movies or shows specifically available in yours. - Anyways, what would you saying? I already did. - You want to take Jet out for a walk? Yeah. Let's do it. And with Surfshark's alternative ID, you can disguise things like your address, email You're free. - I'll look at them running. What's the verdict? I love playing with this dog and I want to keep Good enough for me. I'm absolutely getting Zeus. Oh, his name Zeus now? Did you know if they use discount on Surfshark, and have six months Are you kidding me? On top of that, money back guarantee, not to install You're stupid Neil, don't worry. You don't have because we have our own checks for you. Let's go! Eight dogs remained and Jimmy, how do I cash these? As we had hoped, some were showing interest Is Dexter a shepherd? Were you interested in a shepherd? Yes. That is exactly We got two boys, She's ready to come out. Hello pretty girl. So you made up your mind - You're taking him home? I think we need her in our life. They're so happy. And so as we remove some of the final dog's kennels, from all of the families And she's loving her new life here. Cooper has been This is Hazel so far. She is doing amazing. Hi Sarah. You got belly rubbed. Good boy. Thank you for the puppies MrBeast. And it was really beautiful. At the start of this video, in kill shelters or abandoned, leaving us And while people are neither dogs seem to fit - I was looking for a small dog. I was really looking for Yeah, no worries. Do you guys have any small dogs? Sadly, we don't have any more. We were starting to worry and there was nothing left to do Star Crunch and Doralee. Oh, How's it going? - What up? These are our final two. It's like the last pick in dodgeball. I'm going for this one. Star Crunch can be incredibly shy but Star Crunch gravitated right to him. - We'll call you Crunch. You're watching all these dogs - No. And even though it was exciting it was still sad to see Doralee Oh, my God. She's just realized what happened. And now we have one. And we're going to give an even bigger surprise And since she's the only dog left, This entire building is her kennel. She's so fast. We made sure to give Doralee all As we waited and waited and waited - How's it going, man? Hey. - Oh, she seems to like you. She was saved after being abandoned and now she's just I think she just found one. But before you can take Doralee home, one person has to approve of it. I hate seeing her here. If no one takes her How's it going? I need you to give your blessing, She looks super happy. Oh, yeah. Approved! I'm going to give him Congratulations. Oh, I just hung up on Dave. He is way too big Congratulations on adopting Doralee. And as a reward for adopting the 100th dog, Are you serious? You have to promise us, Right here. I have one final surprise for the people that helped us Come on in. As a thank you for We wanted to make So you can keep finding abandoned We also brought a bunch of money for all of you that helped us Thank you Spot and Jinx for That was wonderful. There's about 50 grand which is extra on top of what Thank you for watching.