JAMES: Well, I got stuck a lot you know what I mean? PETER: So James, where are we going? -A bit of a tour -And this is technically now but disputed border, right? Is that what you were saying? Actually half of Hardin used to be but they had some surveyors come in -Okay. These are things that I think -All the towns around the reservation, -More or less, yeah. ...a lot of Natives living here -Yeah, it's so close to the reservation It's not part of the tribe So it's just a community here because there's not a lot of housing -Oh. There's a lot of factors Why some people even A lot of them live there 'cause there's not a lot of places to live here, -Can you tell me about this, -Yeah, that's the BIA. -So they operate correct, or how does that work? -Yeah, yeah, they're federal. Strong hand of the government. -The US government? -Oh, interesting. Yeah, so it's actually... and then there's the BIA, and they're the ones -Okay. -They're the ones, unfortunately, kind of to non-Native people It's been effectively covered up, There's not a lot of evidence, -Oh, okay. -It's been memory holed? I know we're not, you know what I mean? WOMAN: Yeah, yeah, that was cool. -It's all Indigenous too. -We do a lot of hunting and... PETER: You got a buck? -How's that feel? -Pretty good, I mean it's pretty normal. I learned to hunt when I was young. We went hunting since I was a little girl. -You freeze it? -Oh, okay. ...I give away to That's just a tradition -So it's respect? -You kill the buck and then you -Mm-hmm, yeah. -These guys are duck hunting here. Got some shotguns. Hello, hello, hello. -Natives or not? Natives don't wear orange. [chuckles] That's the best way to spot 'em. -So non-Natives can come out -Well, some of these spots, you can So you'll see a lot here A lot of reservation lands they're owned or leased and a part of how a lot of these people different agencies were actually selling them to non-Natives Native Crow Preference Us Crows, we were and the go ahead to buy If it was Tribal land We were supposed to be given a right to bid but unfortunately they didn't really... I guess they forgot to tell us So a lot of these lands actually went -Okay. -And still today and they're not that cheap When us Crows try to get them. -BLM is not the movement, -Yes, Bureau of Land Management. -They were the ones that were put in charge -Okay. -Unfortunately, they didn't really have that we cared about. So they would sell off a lot of lands -Is this a Native home? -No? -So how does that work -Oh, check it out there's some deer, Yeah, those look tasty. -How does... -How does it work with Natives Is there a lot of friction? -Yeah, there's a lot of friction. -Or it depends? There's a lot of friction? -There's a lot of friction, that they're starting That they live... 'Cause ultimately they're guests -Sure. -You know, Whatever piece of paper they have, 'Cause we've always been here, you know? And we're not opposed to having them here but it's just, you should and respect the people that live here. 'Cause we still hunt on these lands try to keep us out and these are places -Sure. -So as a rule of thumb, if there's and they're respectful, there's not much of an issue? -No, there's no issue, you know? Usually a lot of 'em are cool, they'll, &quot;Hey, we saw some bucks up that way, &quot;Hey how'd it go, you guys get anything?&quot; You know, just friendly banter. They're just humans talking That's what it comes down to. -You gotta remember we're all humans They actually can see your waves. You know, like your energy waves? Like your RF waves that come off your body. -Natives can sense this? Natives too specifically, But elk and stuff, they can sense those. Yeah, there's actually companies where it kind of blocks So it makes you sneaky and silent We can tone those down We can disappear like predator. -I'm just kidding. -So just so the audience doesn't think that's your father. -And he doesn't want If it happens, it's okay, right? But he's protecting us, watching us. -Yes, he's making sure -Okay. So what do we got here, James? -Well, this is the river, This goes up and down the reservation, So just try to imagine it Pre-colonialization, I'm just kidding. -No, we like Wi-Fi. We like telephones. [laughs] Social media, all these things to where we're actually having We're not just all separated and isolated like the federal government -Okay. ...and we can help each other out with but we're part of this old world too. So we actually live There's a modern world where Things become easier. Just like foods today. You know, like you go Everything's just packaged, It's convenient to get but these are We were totally taken away -Okay. -...and severed from They knew that would That's why they killed -Right. -They killed them We were so strong because we knew our way so awesomely. -Sure. We were hard to fight. They actually guised it So because they needed new To run their cotton gin they needed something else because of their skins, So they used that as a way but the actual federal policy was to exterminate the Natives. &quot;We have to exterminate their food source.&quot; -Let me ask you this, James. The federal government -Yeah, yeah, they separated us. -But there was huge competition Like the Lakota and the Crow -Yeah definitely. Back then we had -Yeah. It wasn't just, you know, Well in our way, specifically the Crow way, We could only gain status in the tribe That's the only way you can be a chief. -Okay. Is you have to go to battle. You have to gain (koos) -Sure. -And today There's still a lot of veterans. Natives are actually of any demographic in the military. -Still? -Wow. We've always went to battle, -Interesting. -So that's a big part I think the battle's sort of changing. Sports, that's kind of the new battlefield -You guys love hoops, I was told... -I was told that high school league and they're yelling, and it's crazy. We always have the best crowds, We get... Man, we get loud, we get mean. It's energetic, you can feel it, you can PETER: You said we're living Right here at this very point. What do you mean by that? ROBIN: Well the rock you think You say you're going down to Lakota, An old man who passed away years ago was kind of one of And that was Frank (Fruscrow). I went down to see him and had vision quest, And took the pipe and stuff. So... but he was a whole different type We went in a ceremony one time and the rocks got red hot And that was him. That was how he was. -So you saw that? -Yeah, oh yeah. -So just by prayer, no fire? -Yeah, no fire, nothing. He didn't have time If you look at it, Or different worlds or anything 'cause everything exists but that's a whole different It takes a lot of time to explain but basically everything exists You know, we don't see it, -So you're saying -Yeah. -But time, I've found, as of years of late, I can have a day and I can have three weeks Is that what you mean? Like there's no linear way Well, you know, if you look at and how he explained it because the faster you go until time stops all by itself. And if you splice it in individual units you can actually go backwards, you know? So a person can go at the speed of light and he can be gone for a hundred years and come back, Einstein never went But some of these people, That's why when they give food to elders, you're actually giving food They're still here, and they help us, but we don't see it, you know? Most people don't see it. Natives, they used to take and put it aside because The food offerings are for the spirits, I mean just, but so, they're still here. So we still see 'em, you know? JAMES: Here's a firework store Those fireworks are pretty You can't find anything like that anywhere. -So they're not... ...because it's within -So in the rest of Montana -No, all the other shops you go to, They're the snakes and sparklers. So, he owns that It's unrestricted fee lands, and if it's owned by a non-Tribal member to do whatever you want If a tribal member in order for them to put it into fee land and part of that process was really weird. It's outdated. They actually have to show that owns that piece of land They have to determine that after 15 years. -Who determines? I think the BIA or one of those people. So they have to determine and that they know what they're doing, and they'll be able to Which they can then lease, or do something on that piece of land. -So you just avoid the highway, -Yeah, 'cause there's not really a traffic You'll get stopped -So a lot of people don't have licenses? -Most everybody doesn't, yeah. -What about insurance? Having these different ordinances, having these things in place, all of this, it was a colonial construct. So it's actually completely foreign to us and we're still trying in our country, in our area. It's really hard to do though. ...if there's a car accident here? You guys just agree on something, -Hopefully. I don't know, sometimes there's fights any compensation for stuff. You'll see a lot of houses like this You know, they can't keep up on houses I think it's a bit of Natives, and we're kind of We didn't have these structures -Right. ...and then when the poles we wouldn't cut 'em up and they'd be used -So the house was not an important thing? It just served a basic function? -Well not the houses -Right. -The house that is specifically important That's our home. The home is with the women too. The women that we're with, -Sure. They're the ones that and the poles, and everything, Man, they were fast at it, just as fast as they could take it down. -Okay, so like one of these trailers here, how many people -It depends, you know, Sometimes you have like three, to four, -Now is that provided -Not all of them. ...paying rent, or a mortgage, -It depends, if they're on fee land to the county taxes and stuff for the land. -They don't own the land? -But no, no, some of these areas, See, so it's checkered. There's a lot of checkered places. -Okay. -Some of them are just so old. You know, have water damage, You know, people just kind of... They'll have to just move and that's when I mean you help your family If they need a place to stay, That's where food comes into plays. You always feed You know, you always open your doors. That's a Crow thing, Basically, whatever you have, the best thing you have, You don't try to hold off or stash your good stuff. That's when you bring out your good stuff. &quot;Hey, do you want any of this, Culturally it was disrespectful -It was super disrespectful 'cause melodic acoustic guitar A lot of these, it's really nice Prime real estate Usually owned by non-Tribals... -Oh, so the river's up there? -See where all those trees are? Kinda follow the tree line, -But some Tribal... We passed -...some ranches you said were Tribal? ...people that lease the land to cows -And some are non-Tribal? So I was always under the impression that and this is coming from But that's what I'm finding out It used to be all reservation, it was just for Tribal people. But that's when we go back to them selling off Tribal lands willingly to non-Tribal members and... you know, a lot of these lands so you have to go through non-Native lands our prime hunting spots. We were supposed to not pay taxes on but the only ones extracting Look at the mine, the coal mine. It's the biggest money maker for the tribe but we're actually getting That was... -Okay, that's right, -Yeah, we have a ton of coal We were supposed to get It was a pretty big stake. And the state came in since we don't have a tax department that the state claimed all of that tax and all of that money So because of all that the tribe was iffy because we weren't gonna get anything. So they offered them a little tiny 1% tax. Or a 1% royalty tax on top of it That could have been negotiated We should have got so much more on that but usually that happens -Right. Then they're like, &quot;Okay, we'll sign, -So where's the corruption worse? Do you think at the federal level or they're equally just as terrible? [chuckles] -Well, they came from the same place. The federal government put this little tiny kind of tribal government system and idea and they put all the people in charge who are the ones -But the unfortunate thing for you guys where I get it just once. -Yeah. -Yeah, well times two that's a whole 'nother story. There's still a lot of... [claps] ...old animosity towards other tribes. Specifically other tribes towards the Crow. Because we're traditional enemies &quot;Oh, man.&quot; and they're always gonna -I've heard that -Yeah. -And the Flathead... -And I'm going to Lakota tomorrow. They all said that about the Crow. -Yeah, yeah. -Yeah, everybody wants I think that's what it comes down to. If you're not Crow that's why you're mad. -I'm sure that will go over -Oh yeah, they'll love that. If you get a picture of it there. Can we take a left here, is that all right? Here's a cop, BIA. Looks like they're up to something. -Can I film them or that's unacceptable? They're supposed to be able -I don't know. -Yeah, I don't know I don't wanna... This is where -Okay. So kind of shows you we don't even have a tribal building. -But you have a skate park. -Yeah, and even that's kind of like... It's run down too. We don't have people to upkeep stuff. It's hard to keep jobs -Right. -You need federal funding for these things a lot of federal funds either or they don't earmark it for things And that's the trick with federal programs that are supposed to help our people. A lot of them, they're restricted funds. They only go to certain things that are... That they want to see. -Sure. ...aren't things that we need here at home. -That's the problem, right? It's like someone dictating what goes on -So how do people make it out here They have to go into Billings or something But if they're not working I mean how does that work? -Some people don't work, They just hunt, and fish, 'cause sometimes they'll lease the land, to help with stuff. -A lot of people bead. That's a big industry around here -Okay. -A lot of people do competitions, You know, there's pow wows. So a lot of people dance -Cool, arrow throwing? -Yeah, there's a lot of Arrow throwing's a Crow thing. I think some other tribes but it used to be a Crow game. But here's the Crow Agency School here. I went to school here when I was a kid. -How was that experience? -It was cool, you know? It's getting tricky now that's running the program. We used to try to have it 'cause this is where all the Crow kids go. The boarding school days and the Crow specifically but during those boarding school days and they fought with the federal government to a school far away. So they fought to have a school -Okay. -And that's how they were able and so they were able the outskirts of the school. So we were kind of unique We fought for our kids when they were but a lot of people had to leave to the mountains and stuff -The boarding schools, but it was really prevalent in the '20s, -Yeah. ROBIN: I don't think it's really stopped, JAMES: Yeah, it just changed form. -It's just like a regular school Basically a lot of the culture and they don't teach the language -Mm-hmm. Real dysfunctional in a lot of ways. In a lot of the school systems, you know, stuff like that Teachers, and predators, -Okay. -And even now a lot of the women -Okay, I'm seeing that And near reservations Like missing persons. -So what's going on with Native? 'Cause I think Do you know what's going on with that? Like girls are getting abducted? I mean you just go in there... I mean, some people have... They've actually caught people and being abducted They let 'em go. Aren't their parents... -Their parents complain and everything -Yeah. -Nobody... With the laws here. A non-Indian can come onto the reservation and get away with it -What? -Because there's no law -But I would get... The police officer we just passed, right? -He can't do anything. He can't arrest you. He can't do anything? -He'd have to call Best they'll do is they'll come over That's the most they'll do. And that's it, you can go right back and... -Do it again. -So that's the policy here, yeah. -Is that... That's truth? -Yeah. -That's why things don't get fixed. -That's why non-Natives but the Tribal people, we... -But why isn't your government here -They're too busy lining their pockets wherever they can steal. -Okay. So if you had a strong governance They'd put their foot down. Not a United States government governing. They need their own tribal jurisdiction. -We need our cultural ways back. We had ways of enforcing everybody We used to have all the warriors, They were the ones They were the ones because no one messed with them. They were the ones on top. -Yeah. The Tribal government, and I think, ultimately, we have to How to live on our own. How to help ourselves and basically That's what we're missing. -You had really good parenting Fair to say? -Yeah, yeah, I had They're still together, you know? I guess I was one of the lucky ones. Not a lot of people had that. -That's pretty rare -I think so, yeah. A lot of people kind of lose their parents Even to Army, to wars, drugs, Some people just don't work -How is crime out here? Is this at all edgy at night or anything, -It's starting to get a little sketchy now. You know, there's a lot of meth here now. That's the big thing, It's unfortunate, a lot of the times 'Cause they're easy targets. It's really unfortunate, It's really messed up. They'll steal from them, they'll beat them, Man, that drug is just pretty damn sucky. -And that's... -I mean Fentanyl just now got here. I mean it's... -It's coming from the same source though, There's a lot of things and it's hitting every res now, -You're graduating soon, -Yeah. ...to the reservation. I never went to go to school -Okay. -That's why I chose 'Cause it's here in Montana, -Right. -Right. -So for me, I wanna help my people All my best friends are from this area too. I know a lot of my family and everybody. They're still around here. So who would I be if I just headed out -Right. -Do a lot of Natives do that Do they just leave, they never come back? Well, it's a bit of a process. They don't do that intentionally. Mostly they'll come back home 'Cause we get educated, we come back. -That was the whole reason was to come back and help our people just like Plenty Coups said, He said, &quot;With education &quot;...and without it you are his victim.&quot; -Interesting. ...is education but unfortunately we come back home, Because we know too much now. We're challenging the status quo. -There's envy, right? -Yeah, well, [sighs] I don't know if it's envy, it's more of and the people, There's a lot of people that do 80 hours But they get their 80 hours in every week. A lot of people come in with they figured out what they're gonna do. -Sure. -They come in with a plan and then Goes back to comfortability. They're the ones that because they have a nice check every day. It really comes down to We need people to get back to work and a lot of us, but that's hard for people. It's gonna be... It's like growing pains. -Yeah. It can't just change overnight but it has to be pretty intense too For things to change in a good way and start new. -So where do these people Are they living in nice houses? Are they on the reservation? Are they... What's their story? -You know, some of them Really nice places, but where's all the work getting done? Who's doing the work? Who's helping our people? That's what it comes down to. -Where's our leaders? Where's our leaders at? -So why aren't these people voted out? Isn't there a way to vote them out once they get into those positions? -Well they got the biggest families. Pretty easy to vote for your family -Sure. -Or at least even the thought -Right. -That's enough for anybody to vote. It's just like any politics, you know, To me it feels like you put this and then they start fighting over it. Well you're never gonna get any progress. -That's never meant or designed to work. Maybe it was placed there for us You know, whatever's left. -Unfortunately that's what That's how it feels, and little by little, we're losing more and more Every new chairman, they're signing off They're giving away more of our rights. Just recently they signed away -What do you mean? ...non-Tribal people can come and by doing that they have to Which that's a colonial concept. Is regulating by an agency. To regulate how much food -So they're making money -Yeah, that's what they're doing. -And then it screws up your own hunting -Well like I said before, They don't have jobs, they can barely -Right. -So a lot of people are... Unfortunately we have to eat and it's already strained. Our food systems here are already strained. We're living in a food desert. There's no food locally. The grocery store here in town The only place is IGA Super expensive foods. -The closest grocery store is Hardin, -Yeah, where we started. -There's nothing out here? The grocery store here in town burned down due to arson because of There's a lot of people just doing -This is where you grew up? ...and that was my house there, Right across the road here, This is the Buddy Burger right there. -Yeah. If you're ever in Crow Agency, Uppsalaga Trading Post. -Yeah, that's what we call ourselves, -So you guys don't call yourself Crow? -That's like the government version name. Just like Navajo, They're like Denan, We all have our own names for ourselves or Beelooke, that's kind of -Okay, so you do have -Yeah, this is one place -It's the mini-mart style. -Yeah, just like a mini-mart kind of style. You know, like chips, This is kind of a trading post kind of So a lot of people come but this owned by a non-Tribal member. Everything's owned by non-Tribal members, It's really interesting but I mean this guy, In the community for a long time. It's funny because He used to pay us and mow the lawn, and stuff, and we'd get like a dollar or two for a bag of trash. He'd have us pick up -Is he pretty well -Yeah, he is now, I mean, like, he's one of the only places So he's always been here With the people here He's actually married up with a Crow now. So if you stay here long enough So watch out, Peter. This is the fair grounds, It's a gathering we have The biggest teepee capital of the world 'cause everybody that's Crow, and man, there's teepees It's really cool, and we have a pow wow, Us Crows, we still have So it's like a hundred years old but even before that, different bands and back then it was pretty cool, you know? They used to have like the rodeos that people have now. Before rodeos they used to have Basically they're bucking, They'd have this huge corral they'd all get in there, and they'd release all those horses, rope one and jump on one, And that was the whole name of the game, You won and basically they'd be like, but a lot of people died in this too because you'd get hit, it was a dangerous time, but these are the kind of things Specifically Crows, everything we did To be ready for war, all these things. So our games were war games, Those are called outfits or regalia. -And that's all beadwork? ROBIN: A lot of it is beadwork. Elk teeth is what women would wear ...and a good provider. So that's what this spot looks like We have our teepees up. PETER: Oh, wow. JAMES: Yeah, so see that's the stuff PETER: That would be amazing. ...the most unique A lot of us will come back for this, Not all the Crows are here in Crow country. A lot of us live -All over the world? &quot;In every community, every country, There's a lot of reasons why they say that. Some say 'cause we're very fertile. -We're very viral as men, you know? And there's a lot of men So that's why But just in general, Crows, we're not afraid So this is where we used to come and swim, This is where everybody comes It's really nice and peaceful for me 'cause I come back I didn't have all these stresses that we put ourselves against Times are rough all over the place but if we have somewhere to go somewhere to go And just exist. I think that's what Too many cities. That's my opinion. Water's healing too. You know, it connects I got some old dry meat. One thing we do is we feed the river and you know... Basically we're feeding the spirits, Any time my mom would come swimming, &quot;Make sure you bring some meat 'Cause we'd have to do that before we swim. 'Cause there was snapping turtles here and there's also beings in the river So you want them to, you know, and not to bother you while you're here. You're just swimming in a good way And basically that we respect the area here and we're feeding them and so that they won't eat us. [chuckles] Just kidding. [whispering prayer] [splash] Aho, aho. -So before you threw the meat, Like a prayer or... You know, just kind and safe travel for all of us. -So that you get home too, safely. 'Cause like I said, So if you pray to the water, We can't really separate ourselves We're all connected. Everything has a spirit, even the foods we eat. That's why we pray to them. That's why we honor them with tobacco You know, 'cause we're -For giving its life for us to eat. -But some people have lost their ways -Yeah, yeah, a lot of people They're kind of... I don't know, they're just lost It's just upbringings. A lot of us care about stuff still and want to fight We pick up trash when we can 'Cause someone will go Throw another piece of trash down. within a certain radius is the remedy. JAMES: The antidote. -Within a certain radius. So you just have to know what to look for? -So if you got bit by a rattlesnake -Pray. [all laughing] JAMES: These are choke cherries. Usually they are they look nice and plump, and juicy but these are dried up, for the winter and stuff. Most people are gonna look at this and, &quot;Those are bad.&quot; right? That's what people think, So my grandma, my (Kala), And this is, like... These are dehydrated berries. So we can collect all these right now, put them in a bag, and they won't mold. They're ready to go. So we can store these. You throw these in water, it rehydrates We call it (Hulapia). It's kind of a delicacy, and then you make them at certain times. So you look at all these companies, They're using all kinds of energy These are dried already. Naturally, sustainably by the sun. So how do we get people Maybe that's an industry itself is having Reconnecting with them. Saying, &quot;Hello.&quot;, &quot;Hi.&quot; You know, Reintroducing ourselves to our food systems because they are our relatives Is reconnecting people with that Is we can pay... to come and collect our berries PETER: This is an interesting shot. You have the casino JAMES: Oh yeah, that's interesting. That's actually just a sign for the casino. -Yeah, but I don't know. It's interesting, a lot people, [both chuckling] -Are many people going to church out here? -There is a lot of people That's a product of the colonialization and really kind of infiltrating our tribe, There's a lot of good stuff but there was a lot of bad that happened. So there's a lot of controversy It's hard for a lot of Natives to follow 'Cause we've had our own ways. I'm not against it. -But it's just kind of one of those things. Some of them. [laughs] But here's the old casino. And you know, it's just one of those things that just failed I actually used to work They have a little kitchen here Just cooked before I went back to school. And my wife, Angela, -But it was a job out here, yeah? Like I said, all the money that was made and they didn't invest money back in. So people stopped working So this was kind of one of those things from all the things that &quot;We'll give you healthcare, This was the Indian Health Service. They gave us money to kind of but there's still a lot of They do their best You know, a lot of doctors They're not the awesome doctors A lot of these doctors I can't remember what that's called. -Yeah, their residency. So the federal government to come and work at these IHS's. And a lot of them are just... They're not the greatest students, This is the Crow Tribal gas station. That's Curly right there. That beautiful man right in the middle. His name's Curly, that was around with Custer. -I think he was like 13 years old, maybe 12 when he was riding around So he saw that battle, he was only a kid. He was a part of it. -So a lot of the regional tribes for your relationship with Custer, right? -Yeah, yeah, they do. That's the biggest thing Because they think &quot;Oh man, you guys are white man lovers.&quot; It's real funny, we've heard 'em all what really happened during that time was all these tribes were coming They were coveting our land. They wanted our land. -Who were the tribes at that time, Lakota? -Lakota, Cheyenne, Arapaho, Blackfoot. Every single surrounding tribe. -Every angle was coming So that's why 'Cause we had to be, So we would fight back on every angle and we had warriors that would just go It wasn't a reservation then but they'd If they saw anyone, So that was kind of why a lot of... A lot of tribes didn't really unless they were coming to fight. Because they knew they'd fight That's what the Crow were, -But your alliance with the white man was, -Yeah yeah, -Is it? -Part of it, I don't know, like... But that's the first time I heard it Because all these tribes were coming, and then now the white man And our chief at the time, and his vision was these white men. And people were coming, And they never stopped. So rather than fight this huge wave, basically he was showing a way That we can retain our land because you'll notice was pushed away from their original lands. The reservations they are now on So they were relocated. Crows were one of the only tribes We fought for our land. Whether it was fighting with the whites and we didn't really fight with the whites. We just showed 'em where to go. And we basically pretty much set them up. We knew those Indians were there. We knew the Lakotas and all, but we basically just sent him on his way and they told him too. There's stories of all this happening. They told Custer, and he was arrogant. He's like, &quot;I'm gonna go down there, &quot;'We're gonna beat 'em all.&quot; and that was That was the biggest battle -Yeah. So basically we just Of a fighting of and we just sat back and watched, we're still here because of this. Because of this move. And it was a vision, &quot;Oh we're gonna fight with these guys No, we were shown a way to save our country here. We're one of the only tribes in America Did you realize that? -I didn't know that. ...as a conquered tribe. We're one of the only tribes that signed -Oh. We have certain rights because of this relationship we had See, so that was where That was where the moves happened Everybody just wanted to fight but we knew they were going nowhere. They were gonna be here in excess. And part of that vision, he even saw cows. They were coming out, And so that's the cows that we have These cows overrun it now, cattle. melodic acoustic guitar PETER: So this is one of your -Yeah, it's a really beautiful place. Nice place to hunt, and just go, and be. -Your wife goes in these hills -Well she's... Well, yeah -Okay. -No food, no water? It's just you and the spirits, you know? You see a lot of things. Where I put her, They're actually wild but they're tame the tamer they are. And so sometimes they and then they leave. -So does she sleep in any teepee, or tent, -No, you kind of make and you're just kind of like Usually you have a buffalo robe -Wow. -You have a pipe that they use, you know? The way I did it... You know, kind of like, um... They take you up on a horse You know, you have... It's pretty intricate how And then you make little medicine bundles. You make 405 'cause there's... We work with 405 different spirits. Then you have a food offering You stay there, and you pray, But there's a lot to it. -What's in the pipe? -Well, they call it Kinnikinnick. Which is... Well actually it kind of grows around here. I don't know if there's any around here -Okay. But basically a red willow. Anyways, non-hallucinogenic An old, old, smoke. What I used in one of mine, Meaning you have dreams And then the spirits come, They tell you things, Usually when you're young, you get to a point in your life to where You have a lot of energy. -Things like that, you know? They don't listen Well usually that's when and then what they say, they seek a vision. In other words, for their whole life on who they are, what they are, what their purpose in this life is A lot of people don't do that, -Okay. -And so to find yourself they go on what they call And the spirits kind of and usually one, two, and they will help you, and guide you You know, like I had a vision and one person was lost. Nobody knew where they were and they couldn't find them. And they could be any place, you know? And so they asked me to find them. And I was the sheriff so I was, So I went and everything, and then like a... A dirt devil. A real tall... and it was white, and it went way up, and all the way down in the valley. So basically it traced their steps, and then it just disappeared, And that's where they went, But he was dead, you know? JAMES: A non-Native company away from our reservation. [chuckles] They get these little tiny spots and then now these little spots, out of our reservation They're able to do that because we don't We don't look for oil 'cause we're not We like to leave it the way it is. We're not oil people, 'Cause it stinks, you know? And all these things leak too, you know? All these pipelines leak. It's a guarantee, So here's the IGA. This is the only place for food here. PETER: Now we're way deep -Yeah, yeah, so this is Lodge Grass. The Valley of the Chiefs, (Oshpajikcha). Has to be all guarded up. A lot of miscreants. Hey, what's up man, how you been? -Good. Good to see you. It's a basic grocery store, But let's go look at some prices. -Okay. Meat's a big thing, we eat a lot of meat. so you can imagine they're gonna price it up. Look at that, seven bucks for sausages, This is the selection of meat though. There's hardly any meat -Right. PETER: Bologna, I don't know the price -Bologna, yeah it's pretty big -It's usually a couple bucks -But all processed stuff. -But you got some fruit over here. -Yeah, there's fruit but check out PETER: Bananas, 80 cents each, JAMES: Eight bucks for a gallon of milk. -Nine bucks, no way. I mean if they don't get you on one thing, The cereal's not expensive, Talking about a food desert, you know? Kind of how we're... This is the only pace -Yep. How much was your chips, It's super expensive, right? -Like, $4.00 for a bag of chips. They have the best salsa here though. That's one good thing. One of our legislatures, Lloyd Hogan, They help with elders So they'll pay hunters So they can go and hunt. Gather meat and stuff So yeah, he does that a lot too. PETER: Oh, you do that? He's a hunter. PETER: That's great. PETER: Look at this beauty. [door closes] For as far as the eye can see. So peaceful out here. That's why I love You get away from and one can just come out here on the hill, and sit there, You know, it's beautiful. PETER: Okay, so what do you got? This is the project, -Yeah, yeah, so... ...but I'm gonna let you explain. -Okay, so the thing that I wanted to do You know, Native nutrition. Everything back in the day Food used to be medicine We only eat things that are sugary, You know, that taste good. I mean, yeah, things should taste good Natives understood metabolism What we needed to survive A lot of things were stored and dried. Here is a product [paper unwrapping] Check this out, this is a fruit leather. You know, and fruit leather, everybody knows about fruit leather. -It's like a Fruit Roll-Up. Essentially, Natives back in the day, A lot of times they would crush up berries. They'd grind 'em up even with the seeds and we'd grind 'em up Let them dry in the sun and so fruit leather It's actually a Native idea that the big fruit companies out there Do you want some? I brought a couple for... -So James, what's in this? -Oh, so this one has black currents, Native to this area. It's pretty high in antioxidants. There's a little bitterness to it. That's the medicine. That's the part we need. That's the stuff that's good for your body. It's the tannins and things like that. There's no added sugars in here 'Cause honey is a better... Sugar is detrimental to our health. So honey is definitely a better source. You need apples. Apples provide the pectin -Okay. And then apples were They're just domesticated now and things like that. But they were all domesticated You look at choke cherries, Huckleberries is the biggest trade, And it's all fueled by non-Natives. All these people would buy these lands up They'd land lock tribes and now they sell all that back to Natives. I want to hire my own people. I want to hire other Tribal people these traditional resources. So that we can sell them traditionally other tribes including, to be successful, their own businesses. But the biggest thing about this is It's about providing nutrition Letting them have something But we also have to make it palatable. If we sell something here, we have to -That works, it is, it's very tasty. -So this actually has protein in it. Which is unique to products of this type. Like a fruit leather, most people aren't because they don't know. -What protein's in there? -There's a lentil protein actually. So this is kind of, you know, you know, there's modern ingredients these things have really good protein. -Mm-hmm. -Basically we can provide a vegan product. The way Natives made stuff, we put a fat, and we put berries. And that's called pemmican. That's one type of food and a lot of non-Natives and selling it as pemmican There's one tribe doing that, Tanka Bars. But they got kind of beat out I don't know who the company is but they have Epic Bars is what they're called. -They just flooded the market and successfully beat out a Tribal company See, so that's going on in the world. -Are these for sale yet -Not for sale yet, Right now I'm actually and there's the whole I have a guy, he's a marketer, went to school for that, -Okay. My wife is designing a package She might be drawing it right now. So we're gonna design it, we're gonna I think we're shooting for We should have some operation PETER: So it goes all the way The reservation? You see that line up in the sky there? -That's the Bighorn Mountains, -Okay, and then it goes pretty much -Yeah, yeah, pretty much the horizon there. That's all the way, kind of like there's PETER: Robin, thank you. And James... Appreciate it. [hands slap] -It was good to show you around. ...I'd be able to get into this, Which is key, so appreciate it. -Cool. -It's a whole world. -Oh, it's amazing, yeah. I absolutely love it. It's a whole 'nother world in this country -Mm-hmm. Until about three days ago, I started. So thanks for bringing us in, guys. Appreciate it. Welcome.