Transcriber: Judith Matz Bigger welcome! TEDx - oh my God, blinding light! Hi, everybody! How are you? (Audience cheering) Fine?! My name is Mel Robbins, I have done nothing but help people Within reason! My husband's here. So, I've done it in the courtroom, in people's living room, if I'm there, I will help you get whatever For the last three years - Five days a week, and I talk to men and women Do you know that a third of Americans That is a hundred million people! That's insane! And I've come face to face with it which is also insane, I move in with families across America - You guessed it! - who are at war with their in-laws. We move them into the same house, we open up Pandora's box, and I get people to stop arguing and who is hosting and talk about the real stuff. And that's what I want I'm here for you. I'm going to tell you everything I know about how to get what you want. So I want you to take and think about what you want. You! And I want you to be selfish. Screw Simon and the &quot;We&quot; thing. (Laughter) (Applause) What do you want? I don't want it to sound good Being healthy will not get your ass Losing your manboobs, now that's motivation. So, I want to know: What do you want? Do you want to lose weight? Do you want to start a nonprofit? What is it? Get it, right here. You know what it is, don't analyze it That's part of the problem. So, we're going to be talking about And frankly, getting what you want But notice I didn't say it was easy. It's very simple. In fact, if you think about it, we live in the most amazing So that thing that you have up here, you want to use healthy eating you want to figure out and start a new hospice center, you want to move to Africa You can walk into a book store and buy at least ten books on how the hell you do it. You could Google it. And you could probably find at least, documenting the step, by step, that somebody else is already doing. You can find anybody online (Laughter) You can just walk in their footsteps - Follow what everyone else has done, So why don't you have what you want, when you have all the information you have the contacts that you need, there are probably free tools online or join a group, or do whatever It all comes down to one word: F*(c)#. Shut the front door, The f-bomb. It's everywhere! You hear it all the time! I honestly don't understand I mean, you don't sound smart And it's really not expressing It's sort of a cheap shot to take. And of course you know &quot;How you doing?&quot; Oh, really? You are? Dragging around those extra Feeling like roommates with your spouse, You haven't had sex in four months, Really?! I don't think so! But see, here's the deal with saying Because if you're fine, But when you think about this word &quot;fine&quot;, Here we are at a conference and you're going to describe What a flimsy and feeble word! If you're crappy, say you're crappy! If you're amazing say you're amazing! Tell the truth! And this not only goes &quot;Oh, I don't want to burden you or: &quot;Hey, I'm amazing! But that The bigger issue - The bigger issue with &quot;fine&quot; That thing that you want, you've convinced yourself That's why you're not pushing yourself. It's the areas in your life Where you've said, &quot;Oh, I'm fine. so I just can't have that conversation.&quot; &quot;I'm fine. We've got to wait until so we'll just sleep in separate bedrooms.&quot; &quot;I'm fine. I lost my job, but whatever - It's hard to get a job.&quot; One of the reasons why this word also just scientists have calculated - Oh yeah, I'm coming down! Scientists have calculated the odds of you being born. That's right. They've crunched They've crunched the numbers on you - Yeah, you guys standing up, They've crunched the numbers And they took into account and the natural disasters, and everything else. And do you realize that the odds, yeah, right here, stand up for me, Doug! So the odds of Doug here, the odds of Doug being born at the moment in time he was born, to the parents you were born to, one in four hundred trillion! Isn't that amazing? Mel: Yes! You're not fine, You have life-changing ideas for a reason, Thank you. Thank you, Doug. Christine was right when she said Because all of you One in four hundred trillion. All day long you have ideas that could change the world, and what do you do with them? (Grunts) Hopefully I won't moon you. You didn't pay for that. And I want you to just think for a minute, I love to use the analogy you have these amazing ideas You've been watching people all day and I guarantee you, and everytime you have an idea, What's the first decision I bet it was to go back to bed. &quot;Yeah, first decision today, I'm going to go back to sleep.&quot; And I get it! Your bed is comfortable! If you're lucky, you've got somebody or in my case, I've got my husband And the reason why I'm bringing up and the inner snooze alarm, in any area of your life any - there's one fact This one: You are never going to feel like it. Ever. No one's coming, you're never going to feel like it. Scientists call it activation energy. That's what they call the force required to get you to change on autopilot to do something new. So try this test tomorrow. You think you're so fancy, (Laughter) Tomorrow morning, set your alarm And then when it goes off, throw them off, and stand up No snooze, no delay, no, &quot;I'll just wait here for five seconds Do it. And the reason why I want you to do it with the physical, that's required to change your behavior. Do you think that somebody ever feels like going on a diet? Of course not! You think they ever feel like eating instead of a croissant? I don't think so! The activation energy required to get your ass away to go on the walk, you said is the exact same amount of force to push yourself out of a warm bed What's interesting about being an adult is that when you become eighteen, nobody tells you that it's now And by &quot;parent yourself&quot;, I mean it's your job to make yourself so you can be everything And you're so damn busy And you're never going to! My son never feels like getting off his DS. Get off the damn DS! Kendall, clean up the Barbies! If you're going to have a nude party (Laughter) God, chew with your mouth closed! Alright, dinner is coming, As parents, and you were a kid, your parents make you do the things Because you won't. Ever. Not now, not then, not ever! And even when you get good at something, you'll figure out something else And then you'll plateau out, get bored, But will you look for a new one? It's very, very simple But it's not easy. You have to force yourself. And I mean force. And the reason why when Roz was up here and she had the picture I look at the brain the exact same way. Only I describe one side and the other side as emergency brake. That's the only two speeds you get: And guess which one your brain You've had the experience where and you're like, &quot;Oh my God, (Laughter) You weren't drunk! It was functioning just at this level. And the problem with your mind you do anything that's different guess what your brain does -- And it has that reaction for everything. You walk into the kitchen everybody's left their breakfast And you think for the hundredth time, In fact I'm gonna leave it here But that's not your normal routine, is it? So your mind goes: emergency brake! And you go right into autopilot. &quot;I'll just load it, and be pissed, That's what I'm going to do.&quot; So, when I say &quot;force&quot;, anything that's a break from your routine And if you think about your life, it's kind of funny because we are kids and we spend so much time into some sort of stable routine, and then we grow bored of it! You wake up at the same time every day, you drive to work the same way, avoid making calls, you attend a meeting go back and update Facebook, you look busy some more, you eat largely the same dinner you watch the same kind of media, and then you go to bed, No wonder you're bored out It's the routine that's killing you. I have this theory about So, most of you've probably taken and you've bumped into Well, your body is kinda cool. And your body is wired If you need food, what do you feel? If you need water, what do you feel? If you need sex, what do you feel? I think when you feel stuck it's a signal. And it's not a signal It's a signal that one of your most Your need for exploration. Everything about your life, Your cells regenerate, everything grows for your entire life. And your soul needs exploration And the only way you'll get it is Forcing yourself to get outside, out of your head. If you're in your head, That is not God talking, okay? In fact, if I put a speaker on it we would institutionalize you. You would not hang out with people the way you talk to yourself. So get out of your head! Your feelings! I don't care how you feel! And if you listen to how you feel, when it comes to what you want - Because you will never feel like it. And you need to get outside It's not about taking risks, it's about getting outside Those first three seconds when But once you're up, it's great. Those first three seconds when and somebody says, and you think, and then you're like, &quot;Uhmm.&quot; That experience that you had and then you didn't do required to force yourself, your emergency brake got pulled - I'm not going up with those What happened for me is and then we started talking, And we're friends. That's where the magic is. That's where the one So everything I do - So one more thing that you can use, Your mind can process a facial expression It can move pretty damn quick. The other thing that it does very quickly is if you have one of those little if you don't marry it with an action you pull the emergency brake Kill it! If you have the impulse to get up if you don't stand up in five seconds, you're going to pull If you have an impulse about, you were inspired by somebody's and you don't do something - write a note, send yourself a text - anything physical to marry it you will pull the emergency brake Your problem isn't ideas. You kill them. It's not my fault. You're doing it to yourself. I'm counting on you. You got stuff to do! And it's not going to happen So I want you When we go off to party, because I think I want you to practice You see somebody and you think they look interesting? You were inspired by somebody Make it! That's why you're here! Experiment with it, and I think And one more thing, I want you to know whether it's the radio show, or the book that I wrote, it's for you. And if there is anything that I can do, if I can do anything to make you do so you can have what you want, But you need to walk over, and you need to make the request. You got it? Good. (Applause) Thank you! Thank you, yes! You have the impulse, stand up!