Toyota and Honda, two of the aren't known for making exotics. Quite the More often, they've been Even Honda's own designers Akio Toyoda, that company's founding family, was so once demanded no more The word boring and the word the same sentence again. You know, we are always right? Like you buy a cool. Despite the image. Toyota lot. What do you feel about 500 Let's do this. These two brands and their values better than any It matters a lot. And it is not something achieve overnight. We want to make sure that value above the rest of the This relentless pursuit of producing what customers durable, we stay hyper don't take that for But their records aren't And on top of it, it's a history - with EVs, and looming Chinese So why do Toyota and Honda And can they stay on top? Toyota has topped Kelley value list eight times last four consecutive Lexus has won the group's 2024 is its third Lexus won the luxury Power's residual awards The market tends to have Toyota supplies up front, which keeps consumers continues on and on. Honda is another big winner. Among mainstream brands, it J.D. Power's ranking. Edmunds data shows, are neck and neck, as are Lexus brands. Honda's numbers are stand apart. It's the biggest automaker more cars than Honda and For example, Honda doesn't trucks. Those typically values, as they tend to be beat up by owners. In addition, the higher that should drive down case. Toyota is the number one United States automotive Chevy, Ford kind of go back number two. Toyota is 40% Toyota, and in a slightly have managed to get to this some of the strategies in order to sell cars, drive down resale value. Automakers do three things are tough: incentives, Take incentives. If you've ever heard that a soon as you drive it off cars are sold with factors that in when worth. When you do trade in the dealer is going to give That assumes you got some Because chances are you Toyota offers very little Honda says it spends about From a sales and production we work very closely to enough inventory on dealer much. We don't spend a lot of to the industry. Then resale value because the car side, it's going to Fleet sales is essentially companies or the government About 14% of Toyota's sales Honda's are just 1.8. That's far lower than Ford, Bulk sales usually come It's kind of like the same. It lowers the that. A lot of fleet cars tend to whistles, and their drives the brand's overall Your buyer could decide to once. Well, that's one of the values are as low as they They can't control that sold a big chunk of marketplace. And finally, leasing. Toyota is among the level of it. That hasn't Honda, on the other hand, Leases usually have lower It's another tool cars. But if you over-rely to the used market when the It's simple supply and Interesting thing with know how big Toyota could are not really doing the demand artificially in the incentives, or pushing out channel. Toyota tends to destroying activities, even This is days supply, a way inventory a dealer has. You want that number to be Lower day supply means cars The three brands with the and Honda. Frankly, it's probably lower with. I'd like to have a stock, but managing that, impacts the long term products. Our target is to make sure supply on dealer lots to they're turning their that will also go into how residual values because right mix of inventory, to do. And it's a constant Here's days to turn - the sell a car - for a handful Toyota is by far the Honda is third, barely In addition to all this, Toyota, have strong durability and reliability. These three words even form abbreviated as QDR. The culture here is Toyota, and I think that's advantage. QDR is the Customer satisfaction and And we just relentlessly kaizen. It's always trying Quality and reliability, failures in the US market public. We came to the US, we built what the US market wanted, re-engineer our vehicles to to consumer tastes here. Lexus and Toyota top ranking with Mini in third fourth and fifth. In 2024, 10 year old used cars, and list, too. The Honda brands J.D. Power's dependability top it. A lot of consumers are for the perception and the vehicle is not going to There's examples of people Toyotas well past a million It is rare, but those the distance. These automakers are also two sellers of hybrids in a of them. It takes just 26 hybrid, compared with 58 overall. Same with resale. Three year old used EVs Plain gas cars 65%. Hybrids 72. Automaker profits usually digits to low double digits Every automaker is tempted more units. But carmakers fixed. About 70% of the the direct cost of engine, stamping the sheet lights on. Two thirds of marketing, product else, so about 10% profit. If a company makes a flow until they've sold You want to build one more, because that's closer. You get to Nirvana, where flowing in. But the isn't there. That's where fleet comes in. Incentivizing comes in. All kinds of things come What sets Toyota and Honda build cars they aren't sure So it's a tightrope walk in walks that better than The renowned Toyota is credited with manufacturing principles, things, concepts sometimes just in time production. The idea reduce waste of efficiency as much as Nothing is made until there true through the entire Toyota Production System is we have to a pull system It's called a pull system by demand. The reputation also goes back to factory floor. For example, assembly line by pulling a that allows the company to They're making big every worker or every engineer, and how to solve They also standardize Even something as simple as designed similarly across And when you standardize, volume, which reduces cost, and work out any quality practice. They will work on retesting and fine tuning almost perfect. The company also moves when it takes big leaps. It considered 80 different its hybrid powertrain on It doesn't stuff cars with asking for, so there is latest and greatest. This We've had a relentless focus Some brands may put a piece because it's more And that just doesn't enter It's what is what the price. You do risk losing customers but by going with tried and enabled them to say like, a few gadgets here and build a vehicle that, you But that also means it rolls later than competitors. Toyota has been criticized Even Honda that they're not know, full EV. Toyota and Honda buyers are That said, their records do They're not perfect. No one is. There has been a widening safety check data in Japan. Toyota and Honda have been Honda said in February it vehicles over faulty engines in over 100,000 Tacoma the most legendary where you just run into a It'll be fine. Transmission Toyota's V6 twin turbo right? So we're talking failures. And this is where consumers might start to But the transition to EVs, Toyota's reputation for criticism. Toyota was long the leader powertrains, a more or less as we know it today, to market and continuing to And yet a new technology laggard in EV transition. The brand has only two EVs, The Bz4x's rollout was, by They literally had the They had a stop sale on the like of all brands. Younger buyers are a bit previous generations, and future is basically Any incumbent, no matter faces threats. The variation now in ideas to the auto industry is, I seen before. And with that are not always guaranteed. One of the strengths of example, is their ability They can release new a year or two of the A fraction of the typical developed markets, even new as Tesla and Rivian have an The rise of the software allows automakers to update We have cars that are fun, interesting. And I think to us, particularly over You know, I have full faith company that we'll figure stay focused on the will work itself out. But it's going to be a big