- Today, we're trying Lay's - Let's talk about that. ((Intro Music)) - Good Mythical Morning. - Modern society is not without lip balm, of Lay's potato chips - Not particularly - And who are we to not share international Lay's flavors just It's time for - [Together] Where in the World Do These International Part Two. ((Music)) - [Stevie] All right, boys, before you is an international Lay's flavor, and then throw a dart you think it came from. Then Chase, the Chippendale Will measure how far you are - Look at those abs, look at those Chippendale. - You've been using - Yeah. ((Laughing)) - There's no denying it. - Yeah, I've been working out And this is just like, This is the, You know I think it's - Well it's ridges. - My new physique. - This is ridges. - You look so ridged. - I'm very ridged. - Dink it. Sink it. - [Stevie] And Rhett, You're going to go first you get an advantage when you choose to use it. - I can't cross my arms. - That's an interesting. - What? - What's happening there, Link? - Is that garlic? Is it oniony? It's also sweet. And then there's - Aromatic? - There's something overseas in there. - It's a flavor that I can't put my finger on, put my finger in it. You know what I'm saying? It's like a spice. - Oh gosh, I'm hung up. My foot is under, - You need help? - I put my chair And you know what? Thank you for asking. I'm fine. - I don't know. There's - Indian? Give me a wavy one. - When I taste something Indian, I go for India. Little high. See, I know Veto Cheeto And I also know that now we have this one, Stevie, I do with this. If I'm going to use - [Stevie] It allows you to place for a round It like blocks Rhett's dart - It's a whole potato. - Whole potato. Well too late, Link, - Oh, crap. But I can veto. - Yeah, you could, you could That's it, bro. It's a big chip. - I think India is You know what? I don't think I think this is more Morocco. - Tell me why, Link. - It's an interesting It's not spicy. - You know what would - And Indian stuff - If you go back to that just for me, Could you do that? Because You were really hopeful that I would? - Yeah, I was hoping you would. Can you do it? We'll edit - We'll just take it back. - From your question, - No, you just. - What do you think? You just started doing things - Can you say - What do you think, Link? - Well, I was thinking I was thinking more &quot;occo&quot;. ((Laughing)) - [Stevie] This reminds me of - Yeah, well, Ever since everyone responded Hold on, you You literally reach back Why did you pierce me? - What? - I didn't do that. - Yes, you did. Right on the leg. - You're just trying to distract So show it again. ((Laughing)) - I'm saying I'm trying. - It didn't work, Rhett. - Have I flustered - More &quot;occo&quot;. - Oh, okay. - [Link] Give it to us straight, - [Stevie] Okay. You just had the very overseas flavor of Heinz mayonnaise, a popular ingredient You can find this almost dip - Oh, dang it. - [Stevie] Familiar taste, but, - Just mayonnaise on a chip? This is revolutionary. - You would think we would - It doesn't taste It's too garlicky. - You're right, Link. - All right, Rhett, - Okay. I just fully admit It was lucky. ((Music)) - More chips. - Which I may have told it He's like, for more chips - How? - More chips. - That's the joke? - It's kind of like a Norm - Okay, more chips. Now, this has got a - Meaty? - That's what I'm thinking. - It's hard to mess up a chip. - Is it ginger? Oh. Yes. - Is that ginger, Link? Ginger, Link. - When you got to go What do you look like with red hair? - It's already been taken. I don't know. Let's see if they wanted to do it. They could have showed it right there. Maybe Maybe they didn't the squeeze was worth the juice. - Yeah. Yeah, - Yeah, you're right. I smell ginger - Ginger would send me to So maybe I go back to India? - They'll use some - They will. - How about Australia? - It's a wild card, man. Oh, I hit Thailand. - I love the fact Let's think about this veto. I almost used it. I don't. - Why would you veto a throw That's obviously wrong? ((Laughing)) - I would love for you to do it though, - Maybe you'd be further away, But if and I'm because I need to use this - Right. You figured it out. It's fun to watch - Rewarding. It's a rewarding experience. - This is educational but I'm the only one Is that how this works? Okay. Yeah, I think. I think. I mean, Kazakhstan. It's pork. - Okay. - This is a pork chop chip. It's sweet pork. It is India. - Okay. I just got to get closer Oh, yes. - [Rhett] Almost in India. - There we go. - [Stevie] You just had Subway Teriyaki. Lay's released in 2021, Hut flavor collabs. You can find this sub infused bag of chips - Germany. - So, I am a little bit closer. - But we were tasting in that teriyaki. - Subway. - But now that I now that you say teriyaki Not great. - Not great. Okay. And this just in, we literally took me as a ginger. - And the cool thing about - That is amazing, guys. - The only thing that changed So we get to really see what It's not like the hairstyle - No, it didn't. Not at all. It just looks curlier - I don't - I don't know - Yeah. You'd be doing - I'd be doing other things. - Rhett, you have 31. - [Rhett] Is that your back? - No, it's the ruler thing. - [Link] Still doing it. ((Music)) - Don't mind if I do - This is more original type, - Very vinegary but then I do not like it at all. - It's like something you if you just randomly picked up back of one of those places - And ate it? - And just put it in your mouth. - Yeah, it's metallic. - Like something that you're Oh, no, it's not for sale. I use that. I use that to clean my shoes. Yeah, Chase? - You guys haven't been commenting Do you like them? - [Link] They speak for themselves. Everyone else is commenting. - But you like them? I mean. - Yeah. - Like is a strong word. Like it's a strong word. - I have to add, I'm I just had a chip - Oh, now I like that, Chase. All right, - So what are you thinking, You're still in the lead - Man, this is so interesting, so unexpected. - So bad. - I keep eating them because I want to figure it I like I keep trying to go for India - What do you think - India? - I think it's fishy. I think it's vinegar is the first taste But then it's like fishy. - It might be a fish and chips because you get the vinegar and the fishy flavor, It is a special thing - Okay. because you have cheats. Okay. - I am going to put a. - Oh, so you think I'm right? - No, I think I was right. And then I lured you into it. I think it's the UK it could be Morocco So if you land on this thing, penalty added to however far - Oh gosh. That's a hot potato. And then the Veto Cheeto lives on. - Another day. - Get out of here. - Not used for the third time. Okay. So what do I do here? Do I insist upon my answer and get as close without hitting the potato? Or do I buffer a little bit? - I think you go for the gusto, I give you a lot of area around the UK - Might be India though. I'm here to entertain. Who am I kidding? - Yourself. - I'm going to get very close to the potato I'm gonna get so close to this potato Oh! - Dude, you got so close to that ((Laughing)) - Now I'm going to hit you know what? back down, but do it - All right, I call this one the chip and dip. That's the chip. And that's the dip. - The dip was unnecessary. - The United Kingdom. - Oh. - [Stevie] You just had pickled Lay's both popular side and This bag of Walker's - Yes. - I like pickled onions. They're like, if they're on - But these are weird. - Put it on a salad, I'm like, put it in a bowl I'm like, okay. - Now that, does it change - Yeah, much better. - All right, Rhett, 6. Link, 3. - Catching up on you. ((Music)) - You know, the whole time you've been watching this, what is it - That looks good. - He's me Yes, it is. You might remember that song a number of Thanksgivings ago. Turkey in a trash can. - Well, because we actually cooked a - We did. So this is literally a turkey is on fire, again. - If you're a fan of that song, But you don't have to be a fan - No, you don't. And if you hate the song. - You have to hate turkeys. And then if you have a friend well give them the turkey - As a prank. - No, it's just like to - Right, exactly. Because they're throwing it Okay. Again, this is only available This is how it works. We do sell it and you got to get it while the gettings good. - Oh I got to have a chip. This isn't the mystery round though? - [Stevie] No. - Because that makes it more because - I'm so confused. - I thought I It's a certain. - It tastes like chicken skin. - Meatiness. The more you eat, the better - It might be like a steak - Steak is not what I was I can see why you would. - And that might send me Have you ever been Exactly. - That's the one thing we know is that they put meat on We talk about it every time. - Every restaurant in Brazil. Meat on skewers. Uh, meat. Where are you? - Meat. - Golly, I tell you, want to go either but they're so far apart. Is it India? I always wonder if it's India, - Throw, man. - I'm just going to go Brazil. I don't think and it's really far away from So I have to hedge a bit. Hedged a little too much. - That was a bad throw. And I'm glad I mean, if I'm looking at the board, crap, I mean, - That's the thing - So Mexico? No, I actually thought Spam. It tasted like spam, Oh, but I need to be closer because that might be. - I've left the door open - Whoops. A weak little throw. I wanted to go a little - [Stevie] You just had Beshbarmak Lays. So when Link said immediately, ((Laughing)) - Oh, he was thinking - [Stevie] It's a dish traditionally made boiled meat mixed with dough. Typically, egg noodles, - Kazakhstan - Yeah, right there. What'd you call it? - Spam? - [Stevie] Beshbarmak. - Beshbarmak. - [Stevie] You know what? Telling me that's right - Wow. That was a bad - Gosh - Yeah, Rhett, you had 28. - You could've - That's a bad Lay. ((Laughing)) ((Music)) - Look at - Deep ridges. - This is like a metal roof. - Like a - Or like my new physique. - Good God. - What happened to us? - It tastes like spicy Gatorade. - It really does. It's very tangy. Gosh. - Oh, my gosh. - It is like Gatorade. - Chips are so good, though. - It's like a Lemon Lime. - It's amazing - Sweet and sour. It's nasty. But then you're right. - The aftertaste is awful and you want to get it out. You want to get it by putting the first taste - What is it? - You want my help? a special chip dance - Give it to him. ((Laughing)) - I need you to sit back. - What do you want me to do here? Okay, there it is. - All right. Open up. - Yep, thank you. - [Stevie] Chase, Chase. Please. - Thank you, Chase. ((Laughing)) - He seemed to enjoy it. - My thigh didn't love it, - I'm sorry. It's all part of the job. - I'm glad you gave it to him. - I'll give you my Venmo later. - How much do I pay you ((Laughing)) - [Chase] I don't think you want that. ((Laughing)) - Okay, so you're telling me ((Laughing)) - I just meant. Say no more, man. Say no more. I understand. I was two feet away I get it, I get it, man. Listen, don't be ashamed. ((Laughing)) - Yeah, - Don't be ashamed. ((Laughing)) - Usually when someone dances you say ((Laughing)) They enjoyed the dance what I'm saying? ((Laughing)) This spicy Gatorade chip feels like something that would be enjoyed in They're not afraid with really bold flavors that reference other flavors but they might be - Okay. - I'm going to kind of go - It's yours to lose. - Asia and Europe here not somewhere Oh, and not a great throw. - You've been all over India I actually think this is - It's just, - That's your only hope, really. - It's sugarized. It's sourized. I just feel like. - Taste a little poison. - I feel like they would do that I'm going for the gusto. - Don't miss the board. - Argentina. - [Rhett] Oh, Brazil. - [Link] Okay, - [Stevie] You just had Beer Lay's. - Oh, yes, it's beer. - [Stevie] In 2021, this country consumed approximately 45.7 Though unfortunately made without alcohol, you can savor China. - Oh, wow. - China. Well, you've won, so obviously beer. - Once you know it's beer. - Once you know it's beer and then it all comes - I'm telling you, ((Laughing)) - All right, Rhett, you won. - Thank you, Chase. - And Link, 43. - [Stevie] The prize today, I'm because Link, you get to be featured on the - Oh, I remember Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't look as happy They had to hose me down because I like chips so much. - I get that. - You want to look inside. - Not behind the package. - Yeah, I got Let's see if I can find it. No, I guess and there's no ad on the back - It's not a real magazine. - All you needed was - This is not in circulation. - Thanks for subscribing - You know what time it is. - Hi, - I'm Casey - And I'm Henton, - And we're about to do the International Lay's - And it's time to spin - Wheel of Mysticality. - Get it right, Dad. Click the top link to watch us figure out how far from the middle of nowhere in - And to find out where the Wheel of - [Rhett] It's the turkey in a trash Don't miss your chance Pin of the Month Only at Mythical.com