Welcome back everyone It's Charlie, a lot of you been asking me in light of the recent news. Recently, who was the reason he got fired from Marvel And in court last year, so, it almost seemed like it was a bit of a Johnny Depp But despite all that, Marvel and it kind of feels like they're doing him a little dirty So we'll break it all down because they have changed a lot of their overarching plans for the movies because Jonathan Majors got in trouble and they fired him, if you're brand new to the channel, If you didn't see the news recently, Jonathan Majors was still being sued That resulted in him being fired by Marvel Marvel projects, either getting canceled, it basically put a full stop on his career Just like what happened with Johnny Depp. he wound up beating most of the stuff Not everything. He was still given an assault charge because of I'm not going to repost the video here, kind of going after him and he was defending himself, this is what he looks like in real life. He is jacked. Ant-Man has nothing on Kang. He should have wasted Just the sheer act of him swatting her away. Being pissed off was enough to hurt her. And that's what he got in trouble for. all the other stuff, like the really bad stuff That was why people were making wall that was going down last year. Marvel fires him under suspicion. Like before the sentencing had been carried out. They fired him. His other movie projects go away. But then right after the trial, after he was sentenced instead of it being totally over for him for defamation because during the trial, she kind of came off in the defense lawyers pointed out at several points in very public ways. She herself did a lot of erratic things So we kind of felt like he was being sued but that woman just dropped all of that. So currently Jonathan Majors is free and clear. And it kind of turned, like I said, into a very Johnny and all these other companies that didn't want to work with him before all suddenly seem So naturally a lot of people were like, Like is all of his stuff going to come back? will marvel, bring him back as a version of Kang of the Galaxy three a couple years after they fired him Marvel built their entire business model on Robert Downey Hollywood comeback stories in history, winning, highest earning, in fact, a big part of them bringing him but according to reports from Marvel right now, as Kang for Avengers five, and they've completely swerved And they very famously just turned Avengers Jr's Doctor Doom. it has been a full on pivot for Marvel the past year Marvel turned the ship in a turned it quickly Pivot. Table. is there is a plan to bring a version of Kang I'll explain that in a second. It's It's like another version, but currently there's barely any mention of The Council of Kings In Avengers five doomsday, most of us are expecting that when Robert Downey Jr is Doctor Doom, shows up in the MCU, He has already wasted the entire Council of Kings Infinity War with the Nova Corps. You remember the opening ten minutes of that movie? We saw him wasting all the Asgardians in Loki RIP but before that there was like a whole deleted scene the Nova core to get the power Stone, would not be surprised if that's what they do Like what? Oh, they're all dead. Rebranded. so the follow up question I know a lot of you are asking five doomsday until March next year, in 2025, like, Jonathan Majors is free and clear right now Why wouldn't they just bring him back as Kang The couple reasons why Marvel isn't bringing him back. A couple of them seem kind of sad. Stew. First is the nature of what he was accused of. Forget about what actually happened. Disney is terrified of even being associated Like violence against women. So if anybody gets in trouble for anything they are way more likely to just completely forget about if he been arrested for drug use or shoplifting And the other part of that is the amount of time it was too soon for them to get back into business all that Johnny Depp stuff went down were getting back into bed with him But has that actually happened? Not really. No. like there was talk about him but have you seen any of those movies in the couple years the Marvel ship moves way, way faster, releasing way more movies He was fired in 2018. They didn't ultimately start making Guardians until 2022. So Disney didn't really need to deal When James Gunn started going back in front of cameras all the Jonathan Majors stuff just went down last year. Like all the Avengers But there is a chance that Marvel brings him back in the distant future, and we've moved on to Marvel Phase seven, The Mutant Saga, at his big D23 presentation, saying that Secret Wars like the mutant saga, as we're calling it, here's where we get to the other part of this, too, I think the other big reason Marvel is not bringing is also because they plan to completely swerve on Kang Like, totally sidelined any of that story in there, using last year in his big trial like, even if he hadn't gotten in trouble, Marvel would have found another reason to try and not in. Now they're just using all the trial stuff as an excuse to just completely push that off and really, what's happened and they don't think a Kang based movie to win audiences back to Marvel everybody remembering all the Deadpool multiverse Deadpool and Wolverine was a solid step in the right direction Marvel needs to keep releasing bangers only through secret That is why they put Captain America for Brave New World Count them four rounds of reshoots, four is probably going to wind up being they are so worried how much that cost to turn Captain America Like, whatever it takes, just make a good. if you didn't watch my big Jonathan Majors video last year, right after Marvel fired him, and the Wasp Quantumania underperformed, bombed at the box The general audiences that they depend on to buy tickets all buying tickets for all their kids to just That's part of the reason But your universe is not the only one in existence. Please. You think I haven't seen Doctor keep in mind that Marvel didn't go into Marvel Phase four knowing And it was only after he blew up during Loki season one, cut to quantum Mania coming out. They had that whole post-credit scene and it just felt like They wanted a stronger, more compelling Excited to see Avengers five? In Avengers six, and I talked about this last year, that year, a little while after Quantumania came out, five years worth of movies with Kevin Feige They discussed pivoting to Doctor Doom as the main villain comic book character, Robert Downey Jr then revealed recently Feige came to him, begged him to come back as Doctor Doom, But at the time in 2023, about doing some theme park stuff for a new Iron So he said yes to coming back as Doctor Doom Like more money than you'll ever be able he's going to get paid $80 million That's $160 million total. so, even though Jonathan Majors seems like he's fine to Avengers 5 or 6, there won't be any big stink on him it has such a strong hit with Doctor Doom, that it doesn't need any extra juice from all this Council of Kings remember the scene in Deadpool and Wolverine War happened, and Happy Hogan They were like four different jokes During that scene, he got super meta, during Avengers Infinity War Endgame in real life, Marvel kind of in this scene that they didn't need Deadpool Ryan Reynolds was basically clowning Marvel characters, saying that he was not important enough the other part of that joke Definitely needs the Deadpool character to get people excited about Marvel movies and if you haven't seen the box office receipts, Deadpool comic book movie of any kind from any company in history, The only other higher earning In the recent Spider-Man movies. so. The real joke is that Marvel needs Deadpool and Wolverine he even just joked about saving the studio seriously. Right now, Marvel is moving to bet all their chips they possibly can. So that's why they're going with Robert Downey Junior, Also bringing back Deadpool and Wolverine whereas here they're not really showing any confidence in but here's the way the Jonathan Majors So in several years, That's going to be a TV show, not a movie. If it wasn't clear, they're currently calling it based more on the comic book champions That's why they won't use the Young Avengers title. if you haven't read the comics, half of the characters that are going to be on the team from The other half are from the champions team. Thus the champions name. during that, they're going to be doing a version And there's been talk of doing Children's Crusade is basically the larger story Scarlet Witch, but there's a lot of other Avengers A lot of Kang related Iron Lad stuff to. that's not supposed to happen till after Secret Wars. So we're talking several years in the future, where Iron Lad is revealed to be a young Kang variant like his future selves, and they rebel against him Is the older version of Kang one of the other big pieces of evidence that Marvel is swerving on Kang right now with Avengers They ended that in a way that allowed them an out, so they had a way to explain why Kang, Basically, Variance Authority So let me know in the comments. They wait to bring back Kang till the Young Avengers do you want to see Jonathan Or would you just rather It is a real bummer what happened to him. It does kind of feel like Marvel and Disney did him dirty Like if they waited a little bit longer, things whatever winds up happening with Avengers of course I will do videos about that, My Dune Prophecy episode two video will post tomorrow Be sure to enable alerts for my channel Click here for that big Black Panther three announcement and click here for that Thank you so much for watching