Darius: When a soul starts to wake asking one of the basic questions. Who am I? Where did I come from? Who was I after I was, where did I Everybody returns back home and As souls, we create the spaces to delight in, in its pleasures. The heavens are within this construct. The angelic races, the seraphims, In different planes of Biblically have known about the very Guy: Guy here today. I welcome Darius J right to the podcast is that it was a very organic conversation I feel these podcast platforms are for my show, I have no doubt you're going You The one thing I will say is that for about 10 minutes during the podcast. So if you are listening on audio, which you to come and jump on the YouTube video concepts that he's explaining, because nature of reality and who we really are images to show, it's worth looking at. It certainly made me ponder You can hear my voice as well. I've just got back from workshops in The momentum is continuing, We have opened up dates for our retreats It's time is flying. It's going so quick, isn't it? Uh, but be sure to let me know what Darius, especially if you're on YouTube, friend, if you get a lot out of it, find and get these conversations out there as at doing this time in history right now. And of course, let me know I love connecting with you comments as they come in. Anyway, much love from me. I hope I get to meet you in person Enjoy this. It's fantastic. Beautiful. We are recording. Darius, welcome to the podcast. We thought we'd capture everything for a while and it keeps going. Yeah. First of all, welcome, mate. I appreciate you coming on the show. Darius: Yeah. Yeah. No problem, man. Yeah. Guy: Yeah. Yeah. No. Interestingly enough, when it comes these days, I tend to do little I love having that curiosity and from that space of innocence as well. seeing what comes out And for me, it's really important to get how it can impact our life and how we Cause I'm in front of many people myself, And quite often we can get seduced by experiences, but ultimately we Taking strides into becoming a and presenting our best version That's what I found on my journey anyway. Darius: Yeah. Well, what got you into it and then what you know, pretty much, I was curious to. Yeah, look, I'm always open to finding that come on the show and people do let Have you checked that person out? And I believe someone somewhere tagged me in one of your videos. I've met Alex Ferrari once at Level Soul, who was very helpful. to me with my YouTube channel, actually. He was very generous with his time. And through those conversations, different you talking about out of body experiences. And I thought that would be somebody because having had some of my own and of certain fundamental beliefs that I having different experiences really things for me in a, you know, when you in a much more beautiful way, but at especially if there's no one in your Darius: that's pretty Yeah. Well, you, you should have then with the out body stuff. Yeah. Guy: Yes. Yeah. Yeah. What, what, what, what did you, Darius: how far did Did you, Guy: how far have I got? So, yeah, they went through a, went where they would just happen involuntary. They started to happen. I'd already had been leaning into a lot I was in my late thirties and. Then I had, I don't like to talk about movement and an awakening and So what I was finding, Were you practicing Darius: semen retention as well? Guy: No, not with the sexual energy, no. But, um, but what was happening was then I would wake up and it would actually And the next thing you know, I'd be, I'd So that was the first thing. And I would freak out I was like, Whoa, what is that? That is, I was very consciously aware. And then I started listening There was another book, oh my gosh, William something. No idea, yeah, yeah. Anyway, fascinating book, yeah. And then from that, Present in itself and I actually look back that the universe was actually presenting to transmute that fear into love because to support others on their journey. into their own self realization. And I feel these things started to show it be my highest self, my whole self, and call it, started to present these aspects that were starting to happen and away with it and come back into my body. Does that make sense? Does that relate to anything Darius: Well, I mean, you're, version of yourself right now. Uh, right here, right So I mean, the, the only thing is memories, information that is right now, fully and completely. So, you know, there's a, there's a When you come inside of here, When you come inside this, this holds all memory and stuff. So you just. It's remembering pretty much remembering Guy: Interesting. Um, why do you feel that we people start remembering at certain points? Within our journey. Do you, do you feel that's Do you feel or is just What have you? Some of it is come to, Darius: yeah, some, some of it's come in here with a certain plan. Now, not all of it is, so you pre-planned or if you are off course. If you are, you go through a traumatic get whipped into another direction. Feels like your life's falling apart. That's typically because you're Some things are planned, some things lot of things, you know, due to this Guy: Yeah. Darius: When a soul starts to wake asking one of the basic questions. Who am I? Where did I come from? Who was I after I was, uh, where did And so then that starts to asking or looking at things here. Okay. Well, why are we doing certain things It doesn't feel right. Then you start tuning into the, your the fabric of creation of all things. Then when you step into that, see the contrast very clearly. Because the more that you get closer and what you really are, The bigger you're able to see it very, very easily, now could happen many different ways, people's life, the awakening process. Well, Darius: you know, it's going to be very body is the most direct, direct way to no, I could tell you all of these things from other people, whoever you you the tools and the practical or it yourself, And a direct path to You know? Guy: Of course. Yeah. I mean, there's no greater learning than Because it becomes a knowing, not And for anyone listening to this, I would I'm just assuming from what I witness and workshops and things, um, wouldn't and I guess the question I'd have. For you, is, why would we Why would we want to lean into that? Darius: So, the Anubadi state path of accessing the other side. You access the multi You access the full spectrum. Let's just say the light spectrum. So you access everything. Thoughts, time, pass away loved You access the construct You see all things again, as if You access your own records and things. So why would somebody want to do that? Well, it's, it's a, it's an individual themselves, truth for themselves, not but then out of body is just the, You're, you are physically there. It's more physical than the physical body. You're walking around, you're interacting Thoughts are physical too. Okay. You see? Guy: Yeah. So you're saying essentially is that the way we live our life, the reality Like, like you say, it's probably potentially could be, you know? No, no. The, the, the Darius: bodies are, are massively I mean, just the simple fact that the Did you know that you weren't considered Yeah. So, to show you the amount of has been done to the body. We're not even living to the full age that What would the full Guy: age be? Darius: You're talking about 500, 700 years old. You know, biblically you have So yeah. Guy: Yeah. No, I've heard Greg Brayden speak a lot Interesting. So ultimately then what you're saying all that and we're just literally where everything is without the Darius: Yes. Yeah. So when you, okay, you could say So the body has limitations. It has, it has limits on what it can do. Now it's not supposed to, it's but there's limits, you know. So when you leave the body, you are, it, access information, the other side. Essentially. Guy: Yeah. With your experience, is it and do if they choose to do so? Or do you think it comes naturally Darius: It comes Yeah. Yeah. Some people become, it's more And I would say this is due to So the soul coming into this construct, and stuff that it's accumulated all But yeah, it is easier for others, Even if it's harder or, or even if it's It's not a, um, like it's, it's you need to be some monk that All that's the distortion, that's the lie. Like, people would want to convince all individuals of control to control prison, okay, or the self, keep you here. They would want you to believe that people do this that has never even, um, principles, certain steps they pop out. Guy: Yeah. Yeah. No, it's important. I can hear my listeners. Asking some of these certain just on your journey as well, why publicly to start helping others and Darius: was it a big decision for you? The, the reason why I'm Is because of what I was shown countless out of body experiences My uncle Bob passed years ago. So out of my body, coming out with what they consider on the other waking people up to the other side. And it was told to me when they wake And that's exactly what we The initial stages of waking up, you who and what you really are, because it's, it's a domino effect from there when you're, when you're leaving Because you, you're not necessarily, when and it's from that point is also when I the message to as many people as I can. That's the only reason, man. That's it. Guy: Yeah, no, I believe you. Absolutely. When, um, is, do you think, you think there's no accident? It's, it's happening now. You got these messages, like, are There's a lot of talk in different themselves that there's a lot of change And more and more people Darius: Yeah, it's not a planet. Yes, but, but the realm, um, yeah, is, And now this is, this is evident in every everything's tearing apart at the seams See things again. People are waking up to see Now. There's a lot of deception there, And so this is the thing that you're are gonna Battle with like planet. It's not a planet. It's a realm construct. But yeah Guy: Can you can you you've So you might as well go there Can you Darius: So You Do you Guy: I don't actually. Like in the Greek? No. Darius: Okay. In short, it's deception. To deceive. I don't know, I don't know a way other So, you believe in space? Yes? Guy: Yes. I don't ponder on it too much, but yes. Darius: Okay. What if I told you that space I'd be open to hear in all aspects after That's why I'm very curious. Darius: Okay. This place is exactly what they've stated that, you know, the realm, the plane of the earthly realm, the Toronto field That's, that's pretty much what uh, the, the YouTube flagged. Guy: Yeah. Yeah. No, it's when you started, cause we just, here and I'm just speaking to what's When you, started having Are you also being shown the construct Like how far have these experiences, own work much, how far have these of knowledge that are supporting us You know, because I'm personally of what I read and what information and even if I'm skeptical, I I hear Tom Campbell talk about that steps I take on my journey to, of the as I move forward as an individual, You know what I mean? So I'm fascinated. Yeah. I'm fascinated with, from your out of presented to you and share as little Darius: There is a, there Um, I know you brought up Tom Campbell. I was having open mind be always, Um, you, when you, when you get in a never, you Touch the truth and grab it. And truth is forever changing. It's all, it's all, there's no truth. What is a man? What is a woman? You see, so there's a truth to things. And this, this is the biggest Where they convince you that There's a foundation. And that foundation is solid on It's just been, people How do you tell a blind person Not that they're blind forever. They will see again. That's sort of where we are right now. Yeah. You see? That makes sense. So Guy: yeah. I get what you, I get Okay. Darius: Yep. Um, now. Guy: So I guess from my that, There's absolute truth. And as I've had experiences, all paradigms of beliefs to go, And that's undeniable in But there's truth beyond that if that makes sense. So I'm on my journey. I'm allowing myself to navigate what does that look like? Darius: Well, I mean, every soul is, It's sort of a, you could will access all things again. It's every single soul does, no Everybody returns back It's just, it's just what it is. But you've asked me before what, what So, so I guess the best way to say it is the, the I was just accessing dimensional spaces. Um, I was accessing here, you know, realm one here, the earthly realm. This is where you could see things your body, you see what's taking place You see people walking around, I've even, I've even, uh, taken it I'll be in another room, pop out of whiteboard like four times in a row for Oh wow. Yeah. Yeah. been very open to even doing experiments and stuff like that. But it's, you know, I've, I've found with people, getting people to come that they share and stuff as well. I mean, that's as, you know, I could have know, it's just at what point does it people, you're never going to reach it. Yeah. You see what I mean? Unless somebody does it for themselves. How much evidence Guy: do you need? Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Darius: But, um, I've Um, seeing things taking place lot of dimensional space stuff. Now dimensional space is typically your thought forms, your field. Your body and your soul hold an So it's pretty big too, strong. So when you are thinking something, A lot of people think that this just Like it's, it's always present. What you think is constantly there. So a lot of fearful things that You know, something harming me, and all these things. So I was creating these things, these Took me a long time to Oh yeah, Guy: I can relate to that. Darius: Yeah. Wasn't until I realized that nothing soul, unless I believe it to be so. Is when I, you could say I broke imposed prison that I put myself That's when I started to see that I started to access more layers of it. The heavens, you know, the heavenly to come in contact with, uh, beings. Seeing what's actually beyond the poles. Seeing what, what this construct, There's massive land masses that people, hidden from the public. That's why they have the Antarctic treaty. It's not to save the penguins. It's to hide what else is beyond Been showing the outside of the construct, Being able to see that from, you constructs stacked on God's shelves. And I share this all the time too. You know, I'll just share it here. Just to show you man, Guy: please. Yeah. Darius: Okay. Here we go. You can see that. Yeah. Uh Guy: huh. Yeah. Darius: Yeah. Okay So when I was talking about the and me that this is gonna be like a massive the construct Could you see my mouse? Is that showing up on the recording? Guy: No. Darius: Oh, okay. No. Um, when you, well then you're just Um, when you, when I talk about the it's very similar to what you see here. So you see the two, like the people there? So that's like the, when you, when we're in, that's sort of what it's And there's many of When you are completely out of could see many different puddles There are a, there's so many on constructs are created through what they desire to experience. So they create these, you could can go biblically versus the, you So as, as souls, we create the spaces to delight in, in its pleasures. And that's sort of what And this is where, you know, you look at the left image there. Yeah. Where you go into, you could say, And it has a total, you know, there's know, different planes of existence. This is where you get the heavens The angelic races, the seraphins Different in different planes of Guy: Wow. Darius: Yeah, that's from the other side. Guy: That's, that's an incredible image. Anyone that's listening to our audio like. Come on to YouTube and check that out. That's that's fascinating. Darius: Yeah, so this is that I've seen Out of body. So you asked me in the beginning why Well, you're you're seeing You can say standing for the second time about the many different constructs like God's shelves, this is, this is was, uh, seeing this from as well. This is like another example. It's like there's so many different I forget that you can't see my mouse. So I'm trying to point here, but anyways, all through, you could say creation. That's all. It's all created by individual souls. It's pretty much it. Yeah. Wow. Let me just, uh, Guy: yeah, Darius: let me just Yeah. Yeah. I got, I got a few here just so just um, you didn't see a lot of the, Um, you know, this is where you different layers, the, you know, realms, the four corners of the earth. When I, when I told you that space way they tell you spaces at all. Not even close. Um, there's no such, it's not a vacuum but that's, that will be a whole other. Podcast or something like that or give the, the context behind it for But when you are outside and it is on a, the earthly realm. This construct is fixed and it's There's a don't firmament above all your these bodies are perfectly created This is why the physical body has, you These limitations are based off of how For instance, these bodies, these now aren't, aren't going to step out but your soul is more physical than the Anyways, that makes no difference. But yeah, this is the four This is what you would consider it's not, it's not what they say. I'll just skip that. Um, um, and this is where I basically, know, because you're going into more tech text, Biblically have known about This is, it's not new. Some of that took me a long time re again in my out of body state, going belief systems, having to crack that And seeing that it's, it's The only thing new is, um, you see, you the world, the, what people, the lost the civilization disappeared and they All of these, all these people Vikings, like even the very, you that, masons and things like that. They all know this part Oh, this is, this is Like, you know, I could, I didn't even prepare for this. This is just stuff that I put up, but, go into the massive distortions to what Um, and this is going to trigger a The, the, there has been so much we are here, this place that we live A lot of people think awake is, of what people call lightworkers. But on the other side, when you're on interacting with these beings, they are on the right, like, you know, the angelic hold the armor of God in a sense because So they hold that. So there's been a massive what truly being awake is. And to put people in a constant passive standing in their, in their power and Yeah. Now, you know, there's a lot of That's like a, um, that's It's not necessarily that I'm judging. It's, it's, it's pointing A lot of people want to And I'm just going to A lot of people desire to eat the apple of life, or whatever. But they've been sold. And, and you could say, put underneath a and they're eating the onion, believing And this is where the distortion comes in. So, you know, it's more of a, I hold, that fall into the new age propaganda distortion from what a wake really is. And from what things are like This is where you go into, you know. The creations, the heavens, heaven, people don't understand what the 12 layers and planes of existence within it's, This is where you get the heavens these are just different planes of, of and all of these, you could say the shower fins, the Titans, the John, all of of existence within this construct. And they were all once here. This is why you find all the history here. You find all the giants, all the all was here once upon a time. You know, um, I think Nuts, you know, with things, you I'll, I'll, I'll skip this stuff. Cause this is depending on, uh, I don't think this is relevant. This is going into more of like the trees and all that stuff. But yeah, I'll skip that for now. Guy: Yeah. Okay. Fascinating. Darius: Uh, fascinating. Start sharing screen. Yeah. You know. Thanks. Thanks for sharing those. If Yeah, go ahead, please. Go. Well, I mean, the, I was gonna Guy: context into, yeah. Okay. Got it. Into the riverside's. Got delay. Yeah. It starts to bring, being able to use Bring in some context into what visuals, visualizations from it. You know, one thing that I found on my, my Darius: though. Let, let, let, let me actually share give context because I was talking And, um, just to give you. Just that last bit of stuff I won't go into the Sun stuff because for YouTube or the audience or getting Um, but when you talk about the, the place, This place was much larger um, advertised, but you know, what we the giant trees, the mountains, the like what people consider mountains of them, but you know, they, they And so you're going to more Where a lot of the wow things that could say the old world in a sense This is why, like I said before, all of the heaven on earth, the The, the, all of this history is true. You know, even there's, there, there's You could, you could come out and Seen a host of other things that were of the things that are there too is the original bodies and stasis in a That are, that are there. But yeah, anyway. Guy: When, when you were, when you were you, is somebody showing you these sites? Is that what was happening? Are you able, or are you just kind you or they being purposely brought When that was happening, cause it's Darius: Yeah. Well, I'm still, I'm still That that's one of the things I know or anything like that, but, um, myself how to do this controlled. I will now, there's, there's a process my body, you have to shut the body down. That's pretty much what you have to do. So you have to lower the. Electromagnetic field of the exit easy, very effectively. So I have trained myself how to on many factors, like right now. I'm drinking coffee. So that will, it's going to be more Like if I wanted to tonight. So there's certain things that set myself up physically prepare So it's not a, these These are, these are, these are past That's also what I'm current. Yeah. Yeah. It's current. And that's also teaching people as well out in this way, you're going to sit And then when you look back on sleeping as if you're dead. It's no different from a near death. You're not dying, but it's a You come out, you see, you know. But I just wanted to say that. Guy: Please, yeah, yeah, no, thank you. I appreciate it. It's funny. Yeah, Darius: please continue. Yeah, and then you said, um, who's showing me these things. So the, for many. Or I'll just say a very long time when time, I wasn't accessing anything. I was just seeing, you know, But it wasn't until I really you could say what people consider I don't know why I said that. What people consider spirit So what people consider spirit My uncle passed away, a And these are the beings that, um, Like, let's just use the word guides familiar with, that terminology. So, these beings, these guides, you the other side, let's just, in short. So, when you're coming out and these, these beings, at first it's of recognizing who they are again. You'll hear this with countless People just, they're like, Oh, And it's not until you're there long their name and the, and the, the And so the, I remember from my uncle It's part of like the records within you the whole history of the, um, uh, things that they used organic technology. Um, And the records of that time period, things out, leaving my body multiple times that I have a good understanding of it. You can say creating a map. It took me a while to create this map. Like, you know, it's like a And then, you know, months and then shutting down my body again, Bam. Like I have like, like almost like a been like mapping out, seeing where know, um, and then also because I, I So I'm not, I'm not a reader Um, I tend to see words backwards as well. So it's not, it's not my thing. It's not what I do. I have to listen to it. You know, audibly, but, um, you know, I'll be like, well, where does this match? And then I'll, I'll do a little, know that, but I've seen that out of that's what is that actually called? You know, I even know what the the first time I've been there. And then to, to go there out show exactly how to access it. Cause it's just in another, it's another dimensional spaces. You could say that. And, you know, the exact location, it's just, yeah, it's pretty. Guy: That's remarkable, mate. Yeah. Remarkable. Darius: Yeah. This is where you even go to some Like a lot of people are still trying to of, um, um, like you go into biblical but, um, they, they've had, um, They have like these beds and it's um, many different things as well, So certain it's all through This is even where you get a lot of the A lot of the Christians where they're again, that's, that's a distortion. That's a distortion of What that was is that water, And this is, this is, you If you put a word underneath It'll take on, it'll actually start that word or, or create an image. And so the water holds a lot of memory. So when you're able to. Create a electromagnetic current through you could program the water to also frequency of the body and the cells. So this is part of that as well. What they, you know, they're putting to restructure the cells within the body. So I mean, that's what that Guy: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I, I so believe that. Absolutely. Mate, I'm, I feel like we've I'm gonna have to cut the got to take my son, but, um, Darius: I could hear Guy: It's, yeah, it's that time. But, mate, it's been, It's been great connecting with you And like I said, I feel like, surface, but I appreciate you. And I appreciate you coming on and that you've gained from your experiences. And I have no doubt the people listeners will, will have their everything you've shared today. So, um, thanks, man. Darius: Yeah. Well, hope it helps you and So yeah. I appreciate it. Guy: Wait. If people want to find out more about your have things we can link in the show notes Darius: share? Yeah. Just, just any, everything that I do. It's just like the mission, it's um, I'm not, I'm not really, I don't Just, just look up my name, Darius J. Wright, and find the information Yeah. Guy: Yeah. Darius: Yeah. Guy: Absolutely. Thank you. Good sir. Darius: Thank you. Guy: Thanks man.