- THESE are the Top 10 Black and we begin with one of the This 75 inch TCL QLED is on clearance nationwide for just $400. And since stock is extremely limited, I've included the item so you can call your local warehouse to check availability. At $70 off, this Shark Matrix Robo Vac is down to 280, and the lowest price I've This is $20 cheaper than from last year and features From one incredible savings to the next, this Turkey at 99 cents per pound is a deal I am ready to devour. This price is extremely competitive compared to other retailers, and despite the poultry I expect this to sell fast. For point two, I'll quickly as they're my most requested category, starting with the 65-inch If you prefer a higher to the TV I showcased in point one, this 75-inch 4K TV from LG is $600, and this 86-inch TV, at 900 bucks from LG, could prove to be a serious provided you have both As a perfect audio pairing to any of the TVs I just showcased, this Sony soundbar with and now down to 150. Most of the soundbars we'll see from Amazon and are usually lower-end brands, and the subwoofer's not always included. In the number three spot, I have some serious starting with this 8-Quart This is the new version that was released just a few months ago that features a large digital display and a viewing window. At $30 off, this 10-Quart is down to 120 as a thanks to the side by side baskets with individual temperature controls. And if you prefer smoked fish or meat that you can actually make indoors, this GE indoor smoker and is now reduced to $600, making this still very pricey appliance, maybe just a bit more accessible. And if your holidays with a margarita or other this $200 self-cleaning machine from the Iceman brand could be your key to all sorts of frosty concoctions. From frose to rose, this eight-piece wine is well time for the holidays where you get four red and in a supposedly break-resistant and dishwasher-safe design. By the way, if you are feel free to give it a thumbs up as that really helps my channel. Point four is overflowing with flavor, so let's start with this of chocolate lava cakes for $15. This microwavable special treat is out of this world phenomenal, and I wanted nothing else more in life while this was on my fork. I was glad to see the famous four-pound Costco Pumpkin Cheesecake with its sweet graham cracker crust, and a rather upsetting $20 price tag. I was thrilled to see this six pack of Junior's Oreo Cheesecakes returning from last year at $12. I vividly remembered but I still took another bite to remind myself of those This four-pound apple pie for $13 is another returning fan favorite, but I was even more excited to re-sample this four-pound pecan pie at $17. It's an annual culinary collectible as far as I'm concerned. Even if you're just lukewarm on pecan pie, I'd consider picking this up. Composed from a mix of brie, these berry pastry bites at 10.69, have a flaky exterior, the type of thing I love in a dessert, but not in a person. I purchased this Holiday Mingle Mix at 8.89 purely for the name because who doesn't enjoy a I would categorize this of with an eclectic mix of random, but well received desserts and later on in this video, I'll have another dessert Point five starts with a very surprising This brand new M4 Mac Mini in late October is now $80 off and down to just 500 bucks. If you've been searching this 27-inch model from and could serve as a nice and a one terabyte solid state drive. On the laptop front, this M2 MacBook Air is which reflects an $80 price drop. And if you're looking for it's also on discount at $150 off and down to 900 bucks. At a magnificent $300 reduction, this 16-inch HP laptop is now and a one terabyte solid state drive. I love this kickstand equipped two-pack of Anker power banks which makes consuming from a smaller screen. You could keep one for yourself and gift the other as we If you're in the market the newest Apple Watch and down to 380. As an awesome Android alternative, this Samsung Galaxy Watch7 and comes with two Point six explores all like this iRobot Roomba j6 at $350. With the higher, but still you get double the dustbin capacity of the Shark Robo Vac I And speaking of Shark, this Shark Air Purifier at $220 reflects a $60 price drop and covers a vast 1,400 square feet. For some added peace of this Arlo XL 3-Cam Bundle is now $40 off and down to 140. It features motion detection and a big improvement from its predecessor. At $30 off, this CAT Jump is an all-in-one emergency essential that functions as an air with the charge cables included, and it even has a standard AC outlet. Clearly, I like this. The quality of this is fantastic, and it's so around this decoration I love the sleek design of this patio heater now at 100 bucks, although if you're willing to accept a stainless steel design, this more powerful 48,000 BTU unit from Home Depot at the same From patio heat to energy this Nest Learning Thermostat But if you are willing to I'll have some lower priced options right here on the channel so make sure you have If you're looking for a I'm a big fan of this as a potential gift idea. And from improving your circulation to monitoring your blood pressure, this model with built-in Bluetooth can track your history from a smartphone, and is reduced to $36 until December 24th. We have a frugal, yet that kicks off with this turkey dinner kit at 3.99 per pound. It includes the turkeys cranberry sauce, and even mashed potatoes. From turkey to lamb, these shanks and a Dijon at 6.99 per pound, is a decent price to From the Chef Hak's brand, these bacon Brussels sprouts as the muscular man who will smile at you on This green bean casserole at and at that price, I'm just excited someone else did all that work for me. My mom does not mess around but if you'd like to try this recipe from someone named Vicky, this cornbread stuffing as a bonus at 14 bucks. These mole chicken enchiladas at $13 are slow cooked and marked the first time I've ever seen this delicious If for any reason you have leftovers, this selection of glass prep containers, for 20 bucks, are BPA-free, and include five oven and with the lids. You can reheat those leftovers in this countertop ready 1.3 that's $30 off, and now down to 120. But if you need a small appliance with a similar footprint this Chefman countertop oven at 150 has a removable LIVIN' thermometer that could easily accommodate those turkeys we discussed earlier. If you're more of a French door fan, this Gourmia Air Fryer at 140 bucks has an even larger internal capacity. And finally, for those fortunate enough to have outdoor grilling this 36-inch Blackstone Griddle at $60 off is now down to 340. These are very popular, so if you've been eyeing this, now could be your time to buy. Point eight is all about gaming and many requested holiday gifts like this Nintendo Switch While the new version is this Costco bundle includes a carry case, and a 12-month Nintendo membership Alternatively, if you are after the Nintendo Switch Mario Kart Bundle, you get all the same accessories alongside the included game for $400. This digital PS5 bundle at provided you need all these accessories. However, you will find a at other retailers if you just And that same advice applies that's also on sale at 450. From consoles to games, this &quot;Call of Duty: is extremely popular right now and retails for at least On clearance at my local store, this &quot;Madden NFL 2025&quot; and worth searching for considering this sells And finally, it's the favorite although we could be in a minority, is this Meta Quest 3 at $400, that includes a case and a game. I've wrangled some big clothing deals for this next point like I hope you enjoyed my dad pun. Anyhow, these are $25 with a I'm 100% gifting myself this from the Tommy Bahama brand at $20. We have a mandatory relaxed clothing Thanksgiving Sporting some holiday patterns, I like these sweaters for men at 17 bucks, or for women at a price that's $2 lower so you can match with to be your date for the holidays. In multiple color options, these ladies Mondetta and are extremely well priced at $13. There's also a massive selection of winter coats now available, but for the sake of timing, I will feature these in my Those ladies slippers that have been extremely are now reduced to a very cozy $10 price. And for men, to make your it'll cost you a buck And from substantial I love this three pack of with some likely potent so you can attend your next holiday party smelling exactly like a Christmas tree. Before we get to a very this next product marks a first for me. I've never seen a dual-seat While it is $400, if you have two kids closer in age, perhaps the cost could be justified. For something smaller and more affordable, this remote-controlled Barbie car is $30 with two Barbies included, and I could see my daughter If you have any &quot;Connect within your household over the holidays, this giant &quot;Connect 4&quot; game at $70 is composed from an all-weather material, so it could even be enjoyed And if you are looking for more toy deals, I will have that for you in mid-December when prices are at their best, with characters like Lilo and Stitch, Super Mario, or even Spider-Man, these kids oversize hoodies For children with upcoming travel, this kid's carry-on and features favorites like Super For your four-legged family members, this faux wicker dog bone basket at 39.79 comes filled with multiple toys. If you're visiting a home for the holiday where a cat resides, or maybe you have one of your own, this feline friendly includes 24 different toys for the days leading up to Christmas. For the other pets who love you can purchase these and essentially pay Costco to help them advertise for These 28 inch wreaths at 20 bucks feature some captivating accents, and would look beautiful on any door as far as I'm concerned. To further enhance your entryway, these holiday planters at $35, come in a similar style that Alternatively, a more traditional is one of those limited time Costco finds you'll need to make a move on while they are still in stock. This 200 pack of mini LED lights for $30 can be customized with the while this 100 pack of more for $22, looked really that retro classic Christmas aesthetic. Our bonus section begins with that dessert that blew my mind, Chocolate I had no idea such a so I of course had to try them. Once I was able to process the texture, I concluded the taste is quite good. If you fly Southwest, Costco has brought back at just 430 bucks. That's an incredible price as long as they don't repeat If you'd like to gift the Costco offers a $65 This new to Costco, Kohler Vanity Mirror, is 22 by 34 inches with very sleek design, and can be mounted The $99 price at Costco is as the exact same thing and that's their sale price. I've mentioned we're so I was excited to see the very popular Graco 4-in-1 car seats at $40 off and now down to $220. For any Keurig lovers, there's a new 60-pack K-Cup for 30 bucks. I'm more of an e-bike person, because I actually like going somewhere without doing the work, but this stationary Peloton bike that you see right here is $200 off. So if this is something you've wanted, it's now available at 1,800 bucks. And I was shocked to $55 caviar package sold at Costco. I am not advocating you by this, nor do I know anything about caviar, but if they're going to I feel like it should And on that note, I love you, happy Black Friday, bye-bye.