[MUSIC PLAYING] It is the end of the Second World War, the deadliest conflict in history. But it also marked the rise of America as the most powerful country in the world. The dollar is now the world's reserve currency. And one American bank has climbed to the pinnacle of the banking world, becoming the largest private bank in the world-- Bank of America. Bank of America was the largest bank in the nation by assets and market capitalization. Today, it serves more than 68 million customers in the US and internationally. Behind this banking empire is a financial titan of unlikely origin, the Italian immigrant Amadeo Giannini. It's a game for them. When you're at that level, it has all just become a game. A game of confidence, a game of loans. [MUSIC PLAYING] Giannini's childhood is anything but normal. His father, Luigi, arrived in California during the gold rush and soon built a successful real estate business. The family thrived by buying properties and hotels, renting them out to other Italian immigrants. His father was a hardworking entrepreneur who made his first fortune in fishing, farming, and viniculture. His father, Luigi, invested all his savings in renting and renovating a house, which he turned into the Swiss hotel which catered to Italian day laborers. After two years as the owner of the hotel, Luigi successfully sold it and with the proceeds, bought 40 acres of land in the small town of Alviso. But Giannini's peaceful childhood was abruptly shattered by a life-altering incident. [GUNSHOT] Giannini was seven when his father was shot dead during a labor dispute. The tragic death of his father forced young Amadeo to mature quickly and take on new family responsibilities. It's called post-formatic growth. There may be things that children and young people take from it, a greater sense of maturity, a different sense of purpose. His mother, Virginia, a young widow with three children, stepped into her husband's role managing the farm. At this time, Giannini learned the value of hard work. He had to live a very disciplined lifestyle from a young age, getting up early in the morning to sell produce with his mother. But this experience allowed him to gain practical skills and knowledge about how businesses operate. Giannini's mother, Virginia, soon remarries another Italian immigrant, Lorenzo Scatina. The two met while she was selling her produce and they became good friends. He was a gentle, amiable man with a ready smile. And her children seemed to love and respect him to the point of calling him pop or boss. Lorenzo takes over the family's farming business, and Giannini becomes the bookkeeper. And soon, his business talent shines. He was a skilled operator. At the age of just 14, he expertly handled the logistics of the family's grocery business, for example, sourcing oranges from Southern California and bringing them to San Francisco. At just 21, he fully takes over the family business, leading it to unprecedented profits. He had a unique way of doing business and was especially interested in laying a foundation of trust and goodwill, as well as building relationships that would support his father's business over time. He was focused, determined, always on the go, either by horse, buggy, or riverboat, working more than 18 hours a day, often skipping lunch, which he deemed a waste of valuable time. In 10 years, he transforms the family's farming venture into a successful grocery store in San Francisco, generating hundreds of thousands of dollars a year. But then, at the height of his success, Giannini does the unexpected. [MUSIC PLAYING] At 31, he retires from the grocery business, eager to find a new industry to conquer. The early 20th century brings industrial growth to the Bay Area, with shipyards, manufacturing plants, and other industries emerging. The influx of population and businesses into San Francisco and its suburbs led to rising property values. Giannini recognizes that real estate and banking are at the heart of this economic boom. To break into these industries, he needs capital and opportunity. At the time, his wife came from a wealthy family. And when his father-in-law passed away, he left his entire inheritance to Giannini instead of his own sons, demonstrating the immense respect he had for Giannini. The inheritance includes real estate holdings and stocks in a local bank. But Giannini quickly realizes that the bank is corrupt, much like the rest of the industry. To make a real difference, he needs to start his own bank. AP, being himself the son of hardworking Italian farmers, founded his own bank, mainly because he was outraged by how other banks in North Beach neglected the Italian citizens of San Francisco's Italian colony, which included his own family. The majority of his customers were immigrants who could hardly speak English. By giving out loans to the working class, the Bank of Italy becomes a huge hit. By 1905, less than two years after its launch, the bank amasses $1 million in capital. The future of the bank looks bright. [THUNDER] The 1906 earthquake completely changed how we saw the science of earthquakes. The earthquake woke everybody up early in the morning on April the 18th of 1906. The epicenter was on San Andreas Fault just offshore from San Francisco, and then it ruptured to the north and to the south along the fault. Most of the city at that time was wood frame construction, but there were some steel frame buildings. And so the earthquake did a lot of damage across the city, but of course, most of the damage was actually due to the fire that then followed the earthquake. The San Francisco earthquake of 1906 is one the most destructive in recent history, resulting in immense destruction and followed by uncontrolled fire that consumed much of the city. Before the fire reaches his bank vault, Giannini and his stepfather load the bank's funds, including cash, gold, and silver, onto wagons disguised with crates of fruit and vegetables. They endure a grueling all-night journey to reach San Mateo, Giannini's home. Giannini's foresight and quick action prove ingenious. While other banks are rendered inoperable, he establishes a temporary banking operation on Washington Street using a makeshift desk to provide immediate financial support to those affected by the disaster. Giannini and his bank made an extraordinary move. Most banks at a time were afraid to lend money, but Giannini offered unsecure loans to anyone based on only personal trust. Giannini has turned a disaster into an opportunity. After the earthquake, the Bank of Italy becomes the most trustworthy bank in the region, and people begin to pour their deposits into the bank. During the Panic of 1907, Giannini's strategic foresight and decisive actions once again safeguard the bank's stability and customer confidence. Despite initial resistance, he expands into Los Angeles, bringing inclusive and accessible banking to the rapidly growing city. Giannini's vision soon extends beyond California, creating a network of branches that provide reliable financial services to diverse communities in cities like Chicago. But to truly build a banking empire, he knows there is one city he needs to break into, New York. But there's a huge problem. New York is already dominated by another titan, J.P. Morgan Jr., and he is not about to let an outsider intrude on his territory. After his success with the Bank of Italy, Giannini realizes that branch banking is the future. He envisions branches of his bank spread from coast to coast, and ultimately globally. To do that, he needs to open a branch in the most prestigious city in the world, New York. Following a record year of profit, Giannini uses the additional income to acquire Bank of America at 44 Wall St. a struggling mid-sized bank at the time He then merged Bank of Italy with Bowery and East River National Bank and the Commercial Exchange Bank to form the Bank of America National Association, making it the third largest bank in New York. But Giannini's rapid advancement into New York is seen as a declaration of war to the king of Wall Street at the time, Jack Morgan. In the 1920s, Jack Morgan is the most powerful banker on Wall Street. His father, the notoriously ruthless J. Pierpont Morgan, helped create the world's first billion-dollar company, U.S. Steel. His father, Pierpont Morgan, was a legend, the founder of J.P. Morgan, big personality, a big person, obviously knew everyone around the world After J.P. Morgan passed away, Junior inherits a fortune like no other. Morgan has the money, power, and enemies. He once survived an assassination attempt by wrestling the gun man to the ground. Seeing the rise of Giannini and his Bank of Italy, Jack Morgan realizes it's time to show who is in charge. After Giannini establishes his presence in New York, J.P. Morgan launches a smear campaign with a single objective, to crush Giannini's bank stocks. At the time, Giannini contracted polyneuritis and had to seek treatment in Europe, and Jack Morgan used this opportunity to rally other bankers and traders to attack the stocks of Giannini's banks. Within weeks, the shares plummet. Giannini knows Morgan is behind the effort to discredit his banks, but he is not one to back down from a fight. He funds a new company called Transamerica Corporation, a move designed to consolidate his banking empire and allow for further expansion. Through actions like these, Giannini demonstrated that he was serious about staking his claim in New York, and gradually, the market stabilized. Jack Morgan's attack ultimately proves unsuccessful, as Giannini firmly establishes his banking presence in New York. But what neither Giannini nor Morgan realizes is that an unprecedented crisis is about to bring both of them to their breaking points. Prosperity is just around the corner, say the hopeful headlines, but around the corners wind the lengthening bread lines, and a whole new class of citizens appears in American society, the new poor. Black Tuesday devastates the banking industry. Stock values plummet, leading to massive bank withdrawals and widespread bank failures. Many banks, having invested heavily in the stock market, face insolvency. The crash erodes public confidence in financial institutions, triggering a wave of bank runs. Giannini's Transamerica stock also plummets, causing significant financial losses for its shareholders. In the attempt to defend the value of Transamerica stock, Giannini supported the market by buying all of the 230,000 shares of Transamerica that had been dumped on the San Francisco Stock Exchange. It was a hasty and rather reckless action, which unfortunately did not serve its purpose. As a result of the stock market fluctuations, severe internal discord arises within the Transamerica boardroom. While Giannini struggles to maintain control of Transamerica, his biggest adversary is poised to exploit the situation. Sensing weakness, Jack Morgan leads another stock raid on Transamerica, causing the share price to fluctuate severely. And just like his father, J.P. Morgan Jr. hated competition. He has such a strong presence on Wall Street. Through his words alone, he could move the market in both directions. And if he says Transamerica is a bad company, the market will sell all the stocks, and he instructed his people to buy them cheaply and force themselves to be on the board as well. The CEO of Transamerica at the time is Elisha Walker, a former associate of Morgan. Soon, a larger conspiracy unfolds. The company executives and the board of directors of Transamerica begin plotting in secret to oust Giannini as the chairman. Having no options left, Giannini submits his resignation from Transamerica, the very company he founded. Along with his resignation, the majority of the California directors are replaced with New York ones, an outcome Jack Morgan has long desired. Morgan may have gotten the better of Amadeo Giannini, but he underestimates Giannini's determination, and now he vows for revenge. Transamerica is a banking holding company Giannini founded to take on the established banks in New York. But after a series of orchestrated attacks involving Jack Morgan, Giannini is forced to resign from the board in September 1931. It is a stunning setback for the banking titan. Sometimes in life and business, you can do everything right, and things will still go wrong. The key is to never stop doing what's right. Despite his resignation, Giannini remains a large shareholder of the company. He soon realizes he can turn his loss into victory. He immediately forms associated Transamerica stockholders and begins rallying stockholders to turn against the current board and management team. At this time, Giannini, as a banker from the West Coast, had a much better reputation than the ruthless Wall Street type. He realized that the majority of the shareholders would side with him simply because of his character. With enough support, he begins a proxy fight during the shareholder meeting. If he wins, he will change the company's role and will change the banking world, especially on the East Coast, forever. Sweeping changes were announced yesterday in the official staff of the Bank America Blair Corporation, the securities distributing company controlled by Transamerica Corporation. They include the withdrawal from the organization of nine former officers. And it turns out the majority of the shareholders support Giannini. When the company is located as chairman of Transamerica and is holding Bank of America, the old board, mostly Morgan loyalists, is fired. There are only a few moments of history as epic as this. Here's this guy, started for nothing in the West Coast, and came to New York and toppled the king of Wall Street. And he did that without being a ruthless rubber baron. When Giannini arrived in Los Angeles at Union Station, he was welcomed as a hero. He was cheered by a thousand employees and stockholders, eager to thank him and shower him with praise. His return home to San Mateo was compared by the San Francisco Chronicle to the equally victorious one of Julius Caesar returning to Rome. AP Giannini managed to build Bank of America into a financial empire because of his honesty and willingness to work hard. Even as a young man, he enjoyed learning new things and developed a passion for numbers. A fantastic place to effectively learn to be better with numbers and data is brilliant.org. It is a platform where learning is active, featuring thousands of interactive lessons in math, data analysis, programming, and AI. One common trait among successful financiers I have covered is their proficiency with numbers, with the majority enjoying playing card games. Developing a strong intuition for statistics can provide a critical edge in finance. Brilliant's introduction to probability lays a solid foundation for mastering any number related subjects, while their data visualization course helps you make sense of complex data. The best part, you will find them much easier and faster to master than any traditional methods. Their first principles approach helps you build understanding from the ground up. Each lesson is filled with hands-on problem solving that lets you interact with concepts, a method proven to be six times more effective than watching lecture videos. To try everything Brilliant has to offer for free for a full 30 days, visit brilliant.org/finaius or click the link in the description. You also get a 20% off annual premium subscription. (upbeat music) In 1932, AP Giannini returns to his desk at 1 Powell Street, revitalizing the Bank of America amid financial turmoil. Giannini's Back to Good Times campaign restores public confidence, increasing deposits by $50 million. Despite regulatory challenges and powerful adversaries, Giannini's leadership ensures the bank's survival and growth. By the end of the 1930s, Bank of America becomes one of the most prosperous banks in America. But as the world plunges into war, Bank of America decides to set aside its rivalry and joins forces with fellow bankers, including Jack Morgan. Together, the banking industry provides all the financing needed to turn America into the most powerful war machine in history. (upbeat music) By 1945, Bank of America becomes the largest commercial bank in the world. Giannini was truly the ideal banker. Remember, the banking industry is all about confidence. And Giannini's key to success was his ability to inspire confidence in people. Seeing his vision accomplished, Giannini finally retires and donates half of his fortune to education and research. In the spring of 1949, Amadeo Giannini dies in his sleep from heart failure. Amadeo Peter Giannini, an immigrant son who founded a financial empire, including the world's largest bank, died at his home, Seven Oaks, in nearby San Mateo today. His age was 79. Giannini's influence permeates every corner of American society, especially in California. Giannini's funeral took place on June 6th, 1949 at St. Mary's Cathedral in San Francisco. More than 2,500 people filled the cathedral. Thousands more lined the streets outside to witness the funeral procession. He was buried in a private burial service not far from his home, at the Holy Cross Cemetery in Colma. In keeping with AP's wishes, all Bank of America branches around the world remained open all day, serving people. And Giannini truly built a bank for the common people and has stood by that ideal until the very end. Despite creating the largest private bank in the world with over $6 billion in assets and 517 branches at the time, Giannini lived modestly and did not accumulate significant personal wealth. At the time of his death, AP Giannini's personal estate was only valued at $489,278. (air whooshing) In the late 1950s and early 1960s, the US economy experiences robust growth and stability. Post World War II, prosperity continues. Consumer demand is high while unemployment is low. The early 1960s, in fact the 1960s itself is an era of incredible economic boom, far more so than the 50s and the 70s. And particularly for the generation that goes to school, beginning in the early 1960s, nobody ever worried about getting a job. There were shortages everywhere of skilled labor and particularly intellectual labor. The universities were booming. California's economy booms, becoming a powerhouse driven by diverse sectors as the biggest bank in America. And after the passing of Giannini, the Bank of America needs new leadership to capitalize on this economic boom. The new CEO at the helm of Bank of America is S. Clark Beise, and he knows. He must do what it takes to focus on growth of the company. Clark Beise was shy, but he was a banker's banker. He knew the banking business from A to Z. He ran the bank by delegating, made very good appointments, had the respect of everybody, and Clark got growth going again. In 1959, Bank of America launches Bank of America card, bringing credit cards to 2 million Californian families. This innovation sets the stage for modern credit, revolutionizing consumer spending and financial services. This was groundbreaking at the time. Bank of America give ordinary customers easy access to credit, allowing them to buy goods and services with them. It enabled cash-free purchase and boosted consumer spending and stimulated the economic growth. California's economy booms, and Bank of America's deposits grow exponentially, reaching over $12 billion in assets by 1961. The bank's strategic investments in burgeoning industries like Silicon Valley's tech sector and the boutique wineries of Napa Valley set the stage for future success. For company or for an individual to succeed, a major factor is timing. The bank thrived because it capitalized on the era of economic growth, particularly in California. But good times don't last forever, and the wheels of the economic cycle are poised to shift. As the 1970s dawn, America is thrown into chaos. Fire that the authorities said had been set by an arsonist, badly damaged the Bank of America branch near the University of California's campus early today. This event was part of a larger wave of anti-establishment sentiment fueled by the Vietnam War and economic disillusionment. As the new leader of Bank of America, Tom Clausen faces immense pressure. At the time, Bank of America had become a giant bureaucratic organization, a very common phenomenon once a company grows to a certain size. As the bank becomes increasingly complacent, competitors see an opening to leapfrog. They develop new technologies that potentially disrupt Bank of America's entire business model. And the biggest threat comes from a much older bank, Citibank. In the early 1970s, Citibank is one of the oldest banks in the history of America, and it was once also the largest bank in the country. After facing near bankruptcy several times in the past decades and requiring government bailouts, the bank has finally stabilized. But it will take a visionary leader to regain its past glory. Walter Wriston grew up in a prestigious background. From an early age, Wriston is a risk taker, because his family and network will always be his safety net. He's not afraid of fail, and we see that with a lot of great entrepreneurs, but some of them is because they come from privileged background, people like Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg. After becoming the president of Citibank in the late 1960s, Walter Wriston knows that to take the bank to the next level, he must look for the next big thing. Though Chemical Bank rolls out the first ATM in the United States in 1969, Wriston immediately sees its potential. The launch of automatic teller machines is a massive success. They just look like more cash machines built into bank walls, but to Citibank they are a $50 million gamble that the consumer can be wooed and won with electronic services. Over the next year, a pair of electronic tellers will be built into the vestibules of most of Citibank's 270 metropolitan area branches, creating the largest electronic funds transfer system in the nation. Realizing the competitive disadvantage of not having ATMs, Bank of America eventually implements them. While ATMs eventually reduce operating costs and enhance customer service, for Bank of America, it is already too late. Citibank surpasses Bank of America as the top commercial bank in the United States. The situation facing Bank of America is challenging, but Tom Claussen has one more trick up his sleeve. In his final year, Claussen took steps to present the bank's earnings more favorably. This involved legal but aggressive accounting measures such as marking long-held assets up to market value to show higher earnings for 1980. This allows Claussen to boast about the bank's performance, enabling him to retire gracefully while handing the hidden troubles to the next leader of the bank. (air whooshing) After Claussen's retirement, Bank of America elects Sam Armacost as the new president. Armacost grew up in a prestigious family. His father was the president of University of Redlands in Southern California. After graduating from Stanford and with his family connections, his career accelerates, quickly propelling him to top positions at Bank of America. Armacost knows his predecessor has left him a mess. To foster growth, the bank must embrace change. And he knows instead of building a new business, it is easier just to acquire a successful one. For B of A, acquisition of Schwab would be the most forward-looking move the bank had made since it pioneered computerized check handling in the 1950s. Inspired by Walter Ristan of Citibank, Armacost realizes the importance of technology. Sam Armacost transformed Bank of America by modernizing its technology infrastructure. Despite the challenges, Bank of America increases its operating profits by 7.5%, demonstrating resilience in a tough economic climate. But a crisis brews, poised to undo everything he has accomplished. A federal grand jury in New York is investigating the collapse of a mortgage securities deal that has cost the Bank of America Corporation $37 million, according to a state regulator from Delaware. Armacost is a mortgage securities company that sells high-yield, short-term mortgage-backed securities to savings and loans, with Bank of America acting as the escrow agent and trustee. The scheme promised risk-free returns backed by supposed insurance and meticulous escrow instructions, but it was built on fraudulent appraisals and non-existent properties, not unlike what happened in 2008. Initially, Bank of America is estimated to lose $8 million, but as the scheme unravels, the loss quickly balloons to $95 million. Worse than the monetary loss is the damage it inflicts on the Bank's reputation and Armacost's leadership. NMEC was the Bank's Pearl Harbor, a sneak attack that shocked the Bank from its myth of impregnability. It was the beginning of a relentless barrage of hits to balance sheet, morale, and stock price that would leave the Great Bank crippled, and Sam Armacost's career in disarray. During the early 1980s, Bank of America faces a series of interrelated crises, the Third World Debt Crisis, the Penn Square Bank failure, economic pressures from high interest rates, and internal management challenges. These events collectively strained the Bank's financial stability and damaged its reputation. While the Bank is in crisis, one man sees a golden opportunity for a hostile takeover to remake Bank of America in his image. His name is Sandy Weil. Sandy Weil is a ruthless corporate takeover man. Growing up in a working-class family in Brooklyn, New York, Weil graduated from Cornell with a degree in government, but he forgoes a career in politics for one on Wall Street. He made his first major fortune by selling his brokerage firm to American Express for $930 million. His specialty was acquiring multiple companies and aggressively cutting costs and streamlining operations to create bigger and more profitable businesses. It didn't always work, but when it did, it made him incredibly wealthy as a result. But after a failed power struggle at American Express, Weil is forced to leave the company. Undeterred, Sandy Weil looks for an opportunity for a comeback. He soon realizes that Bank of America could be it. By the end of 1985, Bank of America finds itself in dire financial straits with its stocks plummeting. First interstate, a fellow bank enjoying great performance during the 1980s sees an opportunity for a hostile takeover. A dying giant inevitably attracts predators. And soon enough, a man known for his aggressive takeover tactics circles the prey. Sandy Weil secures billions from Shearson Lehman, an investment bank, and proposes a merger where he would become CEO, vowing to turn the bank into a superpower. Bank of America leaked the information that Sandy Weil was attempting to take over the bank and the bank stock immediately jumped, indicating that the market believed that Sandy Weil and his Lieutenant Jamie Dimon would be better leaders for the bank. There was an extraordinary cultural compatibility between Weil and Janine. Both had built giant corporations based on a family culture. Weil's emphasis on corporate family was more than a management style. It answered a psychological need to be constantly reassured by the loyalty that only family will give. He hired all his relatives. But Sam Armacost realizes that if Sandy Weil's takeover succeeds, it will mean the end of his career. But Sandy Weil soon becomes the least of his concerns. After years of poor performance, the Board of Bank of America orchestrates a coup and replaces him with an unlikely candidate, the former president of the bank, Clausen. As Mr. Armacost's replacement, banking sources said, the Board of Directors is expected to name A.W. Clausen, the president of the World Bank until last June and the chief of Bank America until Mr. Armacost took over five years ago. Clausen knows that to keep the bank independent, he must fend off any takeover attempts from First Interstate and Sandy Weil. To do that, he only has one option left. He was considering what's called a poison pill as a defensive strategy to prevent or discourage hostile takeover attempts. To discourage any takeover attempts, Clausen utilized a poison pill strategy by issuing new shares to existing shareholders to dilute the ownership percentage of potential acquirers, making the takeover more expensive and less appealing. To make Bank of America less viable for takeovers, he sells many of its assets, including the famous Charles Schwab. The Bank of America Corporation said yesterday that it was not negotiating a merger with the First Interstate Bank Corp or anyone else. The statement followed a report in the New York Times yesterday that First Interstate had approached the big bank with a friendly merger proposal. The mid to late 1980s are a transformative period for the U.S. economy and banking sector under President Ronald Reagan's administration. Marked by robust economic growth, deregulation, and a focus on free market policies, Reaganomics spurs economic growth. In the late 1980s, Bank of America achieves a dramatic turnaround under A.W. Clausen's leadership. By the end of 1988, the bank returns to sustain profitability with net earnings of $726 million, the third best in its history. The bank's stock price soars from $6 to over $19, making it the world's best performing bank stock in 1988. Approaching the new decade of the 1990s, the banking industry begins to go through yet a major shift. But this time, Bank of America will be there to seize it. The 1990s was a euphoric period for the banking industry. After his failed attempt to take over Bank of America, Sandy Weil, along with Jamie Dimon, scores a better deal with Citicorp, creating America's largest financial institution. At the time, Hugh McCall Jr. is the CEO of Bank of America. And he is determined his bank will not be outdone by Sandy Weil. Having decided that there is safety in big numbers, two pairs of American banks announced $90 billion worth of mergers Monday, bulking up to compete more efficiently in an international industry that increasingly emphasizes size. As banks like Citigroup and Bank of America expanded rapidly, they became intertwined with various financial sectors, blurring the lines between commercial and investment banking. But their unscrupulous expansion will have unforeseen consequences. This is gonna be one of the watershed days in financial markets history. It was a manic Monday in the financial markets. (bell ringing) The Dow tumbled more than 500 points after two pillars of the street tumbled over the weekend. The collapse of Lehman Brothers and the ensuing market panic send shockwaves through the banking sector. Despite its size and strength, Bank of America is not immune. The acquisition of Countrywide Financial, once seen as a strategic move, now burdens the bank with toxic mortgage assets. While Bank of America faced significant challenges in 2008, its situation was not as dire as some of its peers. Unlike Citibank, who required multiple bailout to stay afloat, Bank of America managed to weather the storm. In hindsight, perhaps it was a blessing that Sandy Weill failed to take it over in the 1980s. To help stabilize the financial sector, Bank of America is forced to acquire Merrill Lynch, saving it from the same fate as Lehman Brothers. But ultimately, the Fed steps in with the help of a $45 billion government bailout and decisive management actions, Bank of America was able to navigate the crisis, ultimately emerging battered, but intact. But even that is not enough. Bank of America faces internal disputes and power struggles, leading to the resignation of its CEO Ken Lewis by 2011. First he lost a chairmanship, now he's getting ready to leave the top spot. Bank of America's CEO Ken Lewis steps down in December. The new CEO is Brian Moynihan. He grew up in a large Roman Catholic family in Marietta, Ohio, the six of eight children in a middle-class household. Just like the founder, Gianinni Moynihan was known for his humility and a very down-to-earth style. He knows that in the end, the banking business is all about confidence. To truly boost the bank's finances and image, Moynihan needs someone who can inspire confidence in investors like no one else, Warren Buffett. Investor Warren Buffett is giving a big vote of confidence to this country's largest bank, Bank of America. Buffett is investing $5 billion in B of A in exchange for a 6% dividend in stock. Bank of America ran into trouble over mortgage investments. The move has already paid off for Buffett. Buffett made $350 million on paper yesterday when stock prices soared. After Warren Buffett's vote of confidence and under the leadership of Moynihan, Bank of America embarked on a remarkable journey of recovery and transformation. The bank focuses on stabilizing its balance sheet, reducing its exposure to risky assets and streamlining operations. In 2024, Bank of America remains a dominant financial institution focusing on digital transformation and sustainability, achieving robust financial performance despite economic uncertainties. It reports strong earnings and increases its quarterly dividend, signaling confidence in its future prospects. But as the bank expanded, the bank continues to struggle with the weight of its own bureaucracy. It still faces ongoing consumer complaints in 2024 about fraudulent transactions, unauthorized accounts, misleading promotional practices, withheld credit card rewards, excessive fees, and poor customer service. Issues include slow response times, delays in account handling, and regulatory noncompliance, resulting in multiple fines and penalties. When you're a big bank, it's really hard to fail because the government always seems to have your back. But for a bank to truly thrive in the long run without being taken over or absorbed by competitors, it really just needs one thing. You've got to do right by the customers. It's all about the brand of trust.