Hi, Dr Bernard here. I'm not here to scare you like to joke that the sketchier the place, the an unmarked food truck in the back alleyway by scratch between his legs and then touch the food, a little too sketchy for me. Luckily most trucks A Man Ate Pork Tacos From An Illegal Food CD is a 47 year old man, presenting to the emergency room confused with a massive headache. she found him collapsed, on the floor, shaking Several months earlier, behind his office building, CD saw a food truck stories about a mustached man, operating the small town, to sell food so delicious that most CD thought this was kinda sketchy. A blank, unmarked truck, mustached man, and knew that this obviously is some pork tacos, on recommendation from the chef. too tender in his mouth, almost as if parts of it maybe cooked medium rare. This was also the first bacon, since he was a kid, so he didn't quite The flavor was bold and unbelievably delicious. allowed in this country. Immediately after finishing the tacos, the day. As he was walking to his car on his weird in his stomach. It didn't last very As the days passed, CD would feel kind of strange at random times. seem to go away. These would come with itchy and allergies but he didn't know for sure. One day, a couple months after eating those in the toilet and thought he saw some rectangular from the mass. He hadn't seen these before. He tuna floating around. But he hadn't eaten any but he wasn't going to show her his stool, so At a regular health checkup, CD asked about his low-grade fever, about his would get sometimes. He also asked about the tuna after doing some tests told CD that this was so he recommended some over the counter medicines his food more often. This would just be better CD started hearing rumors on how the food truck may have been an unlawful business, mostly anything like it. The mustached man didn't seem here to have visitors, but other people said that the state or any other authority in this area, to reported random bouts of not feeling well after saw the man scratch between his legs and then for himself. But CD didn't care, he remembered came across the truck again, got the tacos again, But a couple days later, CD thought he felt strange and he didn't maybe like a fever. When he stood up from his pulled into the ground and heat would radiate Over the next several months, CD started feeling a constant throbbing sensation It felt like his head was heavy. One day, it and he emptied his stomach from both ends, and CD's wife Natalie hears commotion, and as she shaking, with his eyes rolling into the back of to the emergency room where we are now. At examination, the medical team sees CD have a one shakes and convulses. Typically, these only until the pharmacist gave medicine to terminate high, his eyes were wide open, but he was unresponsive. what's happening. CD's wife started talking about the headaches several months. Taking over the counter medicines now, and the headache developing over time, means but what could it be? CD didn't have any recent insomnia, which something like a nutritional deficiency, or a changes and he didn't have any sudden neck A blood test finds that CD has leukocytosis. Leuk from Greek Leukos meaning white, cyte referring blood cell disorder, and in this case meaning that than normal. This could be because CD might have adrenaline was getting released into his body, the lining of his blood vessels to detach, maybe would be unlikely. But what wouldn't be out of the CD told his wife about the pork tacos from the food truck, but he didn't tell her some of his coworkers had recently gotten sick after hidden in the back alleyway. He told her about a She tells the medical team about this and it Pigs and humans have lived together throughout much of history. This proximity has are a definitive host for a tapeworm called Taenia our intestines, and they survive and feed off long. As time passes, their segments break off segments contain eggs and they're called gravid waste can get into pigs' food supply. Pig stomach Taenia solium oncospheres hatch and penetrate the And when we eat meat, we're eating muscle, this As the medical team takes a stool sample from CD, they confirm, he wasn't canned tuna that he saw that day, it was except for those 2 times at the unmarked In the United States, agricultural policy, standards, and enforcement has helped to prevent hygiene standards, and slaughterhouse inspection USDA inspected pork, shouldn't come into contact called Taenia saginata is known as beef tapeworm, stomachs are different from humans and pigs. to find with legal foods. Food trucks in the at all like this. from undercooked pork. Cooking it well helps against infection. And he's a person who doesn't eat pork, except for those 2 specific times. In his workspace, another coworker who had eaten symptoms. Reported what looked like canned tuna grade fever over the span of several weeks. A Brain MRI for CD reveals multiple lesions representing viable cysts. The Taenia solium oncospheres had lodged into his brain and have months. They passed through his stomach wall, blood-brain barrier causing neurocysticercosis. Multiple cysts were found at different stages of they're small. They evade the immune system. look like it has holes everywhere. But As the larva start to degenerate and shrink, the immune system starts to react. Cysts enter the swell from the extra immune response. The brain but those cysts aren't going anywhere. Then the cysts continue to degenerate. At first, stage, but eventually, they become mineralized nodular calcified stage can cause recurrent dead parasite is lodged in and stuck in the brain. The Taenia solium worm in the gut is from eating pork, doesn't give brain cysts. The pigs were Taenia eggs and gravid proglottids. When the that part of the lifecycle causes the tapeworm deviation in the lifecycle, where humans been in indirect contact with human waste. So humans eat them directly. This parasite, would in humans, it migrates to the brain. The owner-operator of the suspicious food truck CD's pork tacos, which he undercooked, hands that touched food that ended up in CD's stomach. It's had Taenia oncoshperes from the pigs, but his directly as if he were the pig, meaning that CD tapeworm. This is an important point. The intestinal eating undercooked pig meat. The brain infection, from a human who has the intestinal tape worm. contact with their feces, and ingesting it. eggs can sometimes be found sometimes, and they touched you make contact hand to mouth. And knowing that this happens, it should make sense as to why some traditions for other reasons as well. This isnt uncommmon. Around the world, seizures. In some countries around the world, household where someone has a Taenia tapeworm bathroom. They'll wipe, or do whichever hygienic and they may not have washed off the Taenia eaten by others in the house, infecting they don't form tapeworms in this case, they the blood brain barrier and embed in. Over months and because you can't just easily go into the aren't easy to remove. At best, they don't cause it. But at worst, they get into other parts spinal cord. The subarachnoid space. And they can all of this bringing us to the final point. USDA inspected pork isn't going to have this, it's been well documented that there exists an this country, through various routes. Sometimes, no further than listings on local websites and are banned likely for the reason of possibly in this realm. And while we may never know where know CD is a person whos only time eating pork was from this truck. In this case, we go with what the tapeworm. And because the truck was mobile, a need to handle food trucks, then we have a Food trucks, are almost never like this. If you're in an outdoor event, in warm weather in the US, been vetted. Probably inspected more often than seller to set up shop quickly, make some sales, without any accountability should something go maybe a little too strict on food trucks, but the a stationary restaurant. Extra moving parts are As the medical team evaluate CD's situation, they start worms in his gut and the cysts in his brain. One into the worm to force its muscles to contract, and to dislodge. The other medicine, albendazole, depleting its energy. When the parasites start response. Because we're dealing with neurologic that inflammatory response. He was also started on seizure from happening again. As CD was observed in the hospital for a few more neurologic exam appeared to be normal. Everything he was discharged to go home, for several months anymore, as it appeared he made a full recovery. Thanks to Angie Burger for letting us film at get a chance, try them. Thank you so much for