- Hi, everybody, Ian Bremmer here, and a Quick Take to kick off your week, a lot more information about is going in terms of the and also the responses that we see from leaders around the world. Maybe focus a little on the global, because I mean, if you who privately don't really like Trump are publicly all winding up and saying this is God's compared to what you're of the United States all over the world who know that they get crosswise with the president-elect He is a lot more powerful, and his country's a lot more We've already seen that with Prime Minister Netanyahu &quot;An upcoming Lebanon ceasefire would be a gift to the president-elect.&quot; We've seen Zelensky in Ukraine saying, &quot;Great meetings, great phone calls.&quot; Of course the war's going to be over faster with the policies of the incoming president-elect. We're seeing all sorts of outreach from individual European leaders, Asian leaders saying, &quot;We can't wait to find a Congratulations, please don't tariff us. Please don't cause any So, I do think we're in the near-term from because the alternative is problematic, and when you look at it is different from last First of all, that you now that are ideologically aligned with Trump, and there's going to be I mean, Giorgia Meloni, who is the most popular of G7 leaders, assertively is someone who sees herself much closer to Trump's worldview in terms of immigration even to a degree economic policy, and that is going to make him when he's sitting at those summits. That wasn't the case first G7 summit he attended last time around. Canada, still Justin Trudeau, and soon Canada's going who runs the Conservative Party and is absolutely much and will be a very close friend of the US president-elect when he becomes prime minister of Canada. Of course, you've got the Gulf you've got the Israelis much more aligned with him than otherwise, the South Korean leader, taking up golf again so with Trump effectively and Shinzo Abe from Asia in terms of being able to That's one reason. The second reason is that The world is much more dangerous. Getting Trump wrong is a lot more costly when you've got a major a major war going on in the Middle East, when the US-China relations but China's under much more than they were before, so and so already seeing to the United States saying, that might be the beginnings of a deal. We could buy more US treasuries, we could maybe organize we could buy a bunch more American goods. Like, what do we need to So, I'm not saying it's going to go well, but clearly there is and then you have the fact at home in the United States. He has the House, he has the Senate, and he's creating far as opposed to adults in his own cabinet, which means that if you your ability to work around of the US political firmament And all of that implies that Trump decides he is going to be what other leaders are going to have to There are big problems from a Trump administration coming in. He's not interested in multilateralism. He doesn't want a strong European Union. He's prepared to end even at terms that are Has very little interest or democracy internationally. In fact, one of the most and the United States for almost half a century, the US has been trying to get the Chinese to orient more towards This is what the idea of that China was meant to play more of a leadership role in US-led multilateral institutions. Promote US-led rule of law and and become more aligned with the Americans and its allies over time Turns out, China hasn't The United States is on the global stage, much more transactional indifferent to the or the political systems and economic system of other Certainly not interested of democracy or even rule of law, and rather, bilateral and other countries where to get the outcomes that they want. Exactly the way the It has been successful because they're more powerful than most of the other except the Americans. They've had challenges in because the US has led a on things like the South China Sea. Doubt you're going to see So, very dramatic change in and we'll be watching very closely as Trump continues to fill out his cabinet and starts talking much more with global leaders on the global stage. That's it for me, and I'll