- To my loyalty... She was a %*#e. Let's go. Yes, brother, it's been a long This is not the Malachy, your father We have to leave. Jason, your brother likes to Tell me, why should I go to him? He sent me away. Come on, stand up. Or you Nobody said I should Sit down and drink! Or go to hell. The last guy who said that Jason. So you don't want This is not the time for that. Stop it. A little rusty, Do you think we just %*#d and Sure, we have. But we also trained Or every other day. No, you're as good as ever. So, ready to go now? It's unbelievable what I've never seen Come, you must be at your The gates are open. By means of this sword I declare your father, who gave his life May you prove yourself symbol of dominion and I should never have returned. These people need a I am not affiliated with them. You, on the other hand, do. I am a warrior, This is your birthright. This is how it is predestined. I've never seen it like that before. Erik, that's pathetic. It wasn't like that when I left. Come on now. We are here, we are together, Your father tried. It took him many years... To gamble away the Look at her, Erik. They Your father died trying to Maybe we'd better Maybe a king gets to With respect, sire, but it's far too It's nothing. Don't Take it. They have something to eat. Why does he give the old woman We'll take it easy. You have food. Give it to us. You'll hang for this, boy. They attack us We can't blame - If you don't make an example of him, lawlessness will reign here. Lord in heaven. You will have to He's only been king for a We must go. I have doubled the guards at the Good. And I secured all the doors with locks. And then why is this door open? Apparently it wasn't How did you get in here? I see you're not impressed Then maybe something Unfortunately, the long and the meat What do you want from us, magician? I am here to help scourge that destroyed Who are you? What is this scourge you speak of? He's not in his right mind. Let's see what he has to say. We can all use a Maybe he still has a few tricks. That's what I mean, sire, yes. With pleasure. What are these things? This is a transmitter. The highlight of my collection. This is Libellus Veneficus. My Book of Witches. I found hundreds of people, ...killed. Horrible. I tried to translate it, These are all tools of my trade. And what type is your business? I am a witch hunter. I look for signs of the dark There are many references to the witches, The piece in your hand is one of black magic I have found, the With it they can move themselves Unfortunately, some of my who does not want to recognize How practical. So, do I understand correctly, And you want me to believe you. I can't do that without proof. Your father wanted His refusal to pay killing him, as if he had You dare to utter such treacherous words?! Why else would you have been kept Taken away as a You're either damn There is certainly a natural Blight. Some invisible Sorry, but I find it this misery was caused No drought has Nevertheless, fruit after This is because the witches I can help you My father tried and failed. Do you think you can Sire, I need you to Let's pursue the witches I can share my knowledge Why don't you You wouldn't believe me. There are no such things as Fairy tales are told There are no dark forces You are very Don't make the same mistake today. Send messengers: let the As entertaining as this promises Well, at least he could Let's give him a chance. All right then. You get your chance. My brother and I are Consider this, in Citizen of Draegenoth. I know what they are They are witches who This book taught me how to You have to listen to I saw it with my own eyes. These witches burned the crops. They are among us, even now. There is only one We have to track them down and They are the evil that we... We give you food Then you will continue your A meal for one man does not I'm in my right mind. You can't ignore The kingdom and all its do not listen to my words. But I will show are not just those of This powder, now the as bright as the blood that It comes from the witches themselves He should stop this. The powder revealed it to us. There, it's her. It says she is a witch. You have to stop This is nothing more than a Citizens, I have found Grab her and burn Leave her alone. He's a Stop it! I am your king, Do what your dead king what your new king will not Out of the way! Get rid of her! Make way for the king! I beg you, untie her! Why do you still doubt? You took the life of Believe me, I had no choice. She is one of many. You are people's only Hope? I can't even stop my people They don't care about hope She is here. This is blood from heaven. I still don't believe You saw it with your own There must be an understandable Well, then tell me. The defense of the We have to be prepared for If this threat is real, and I still gang of witches? With swords, Mock my potion powder did what It has seen beyond the harmless This is how they infiltrated your Then enlighten us, Heinrich. If they are so powerful, My book gave me a few We can't stand here and wait He's right. We should go immediately This is the only way we can defeat this enemy. Here, here and here. And my book, I'm sure, fortress, even if I haven't been But here is this Where is that? Two days ride from here. A All right then. We'll leave immediately I'm coming with you. You are out of danger here. An empire is Mile after mile, We have water and The witches drain the plants' Like vampire bats that are There! Shouldn't there be Yes, you are right. Rags, wretches. They will Calm down, brother. There's Let's hope so. For her own good. Go now. Get the Snatch it from his dead hand if you Still no sign of them. It's quiet here. Move out of the way! I said make room! With God. I like the little one. Where do you guys come from? Here we have an easier time with the harvest. You fight well, madam. I suggest you - She is the leader of murderers and thieves who killed two of our men. But the blight also affects And that's what matters right now. I am Malachy, your king. I give you a choice. We fight against witches. They Or you die here, today. Witches? What kind Are you trying to We saw their cruel The skirmishes must stop. We are not enemies. Come with us and you If you don't come with me, I Make a decision. We will search with you. I What brings you so We expected to meet But you weren't at your post. They attacked us and tried to They dragged us off the Witches. They flew through the So you're dead. That means Yet you are not on your assigned one Post. They asked to be taken others like them would It's not far, about half We can guide you there. We're spending the We need a good battle plan. We must learn as much as we are to have any hope of The book speaks of the If we eliminate their Then we have to attack them What is that? Grim weapon for The crossbow has a mechanism It is equipped The arrows are dipped when fired. Fire is one of the Good to know. And what's in there? This is the greatest Delicious. The village where Before he expired, the about a city of devilish the Red Queen. There is Little is said about who she Erik... Definitely as Nice... Possibly. But from what I've been apparently incapable of Could be the person incarnate Whatever it may be, we &quot;Death comes to the when the essence she her, complete, with grace A mystery. But remember, her power increases The queen will be pleased. How would you like to be a toad in Witch hosts. Please, sire. Spare me. He is no longer the one you knew. From now on we must trust Don't leave anything Josefa? Do you bring me Surely you have the hunter's If so, it would already Certainly, my love. Maybe the new king killed them. Otherwise they would be castle long ago, and the I told you to get it. Did you not understand Yes, my queen. And the new king when this simple I see the resemblance, my child. I see you. Otherwise I might not believe I saw what these Barbarians. You Not true? But you have Yes mother. He's coming, isn't You abandoned our two You never abandon Talk to me. Speak! They slipped into the bodies of the came back as I was told, mother. I couldn't I see everything. There is Nothing. The circle There is no one who the stake if only they We do not deviate from this No, mother. We Their hosts were killed. Therefore, So be it. Oh, get away from me. I'll get the book myself. Your Highness! Fast! Look into her eyes. This is the You are bewitched! Malachy. Chandler. Now become crystal. Fast now. We have to escape. I hear church bells. But The city is cursed. who went there The illustration... Yes. We have to find the The book. Keep it safe. The knowledge within is We are fighting against a power We must fight for the and for the memory of my father. innocents who died at Also for them, you crazy. Greetings, noble Greetings. A As a matter of fact. I'm Hobart, We very rarely see Your men look tired. Maybe some refreshments Your belongings and horses Very kind of you. Thanks. You can rest there. You must be hungry. Something is wrong. I stay here. Let's see what - Good. We go in Feast yourselves, noble gentlemen. Here. Please, ladies. Grab it. Here, eat, my love. Do you always And so early? We rarely have guests here. This is a reason to celebrate. More beer. More beer. I'll beat you anytime, Traveler. So nice. Over three rounds. Wait, wait, wait, wait, Is there anything more demanding? Your sword is truly Are you sure you know how to run it? How high is the stake? Then about the honor. May the first Do you trust him? Have you noticed the abundance here? Seems like blight and plague Doesn't look like it. We're wasting our time There are no witches here. Now come on, noble gentlemen. Can't happen until the deal is decided. No more fights. Don't insult shown you so We appreciate your hospitality. My king! A devil who is free. They surround us. How easily men can be lured. How easily they succumb Why are you playing with us? You came here to slaughter me. You and your witches have and you wanted to destroy my It's yours, do you think? me, I'm just here to take For decades I was locked We know who you are. And we will stop you. Your pathetic me, even with Better give it to me now. Save Give it to me. For that you have Where is it? Exactly here. How are we supposed to kill them? Sire, we have to get out of here. They're surrounding Slaughter them. Eric. Oh God, Jason. Fight for the For our king. I will. I swear. My king! We have to go! I have to stand by him. Save yourself and your kingdom! Next time. Take this one with you. I'll The Red Queen will come after us. Good morning, pretty brat. Go to hell. Rude words. Now I understand why Don't, save your energy. I'm not telling you anything, you Torture? As a matter of fact. I hope you are prepared Sire, you must Tell him what's Now they are listening to you. Come on you people, come on. Hear what your king has to say. I want to warn you about the danger What you all went through is I see your hunger and But we must resist this fear. What we have all loved ones, is not the It is the work of witches. Witches we were already fighting this is happening to you. But it happens to me too. Because I have it in my heart, And that is why I ask you, my against this evil, this unspeakable every one of us. And what do you That they should die starving while sleeping Or that they should defend themselves and They're witches! We What we have is better. We have our witch hunter. He showed me that we Together with strength we will fight We will send the Red Queen You fight well. Especially when If she has what she Sweet words won't save you. She would have done it She wants to trade Nothing will come of it. My Then you will die. I gave my word to forever I tried and failed. It doesn't matter what How foolish. Is your that you willingly throw Because he would die for me. Is there nothing in your I die for my queen. I heard her talking to you. She will kill you if you You have to know that. Think and do what is right. Let me return home to my king. If you help me, I'll help you. I promise to you. Have you found anything? It says: &quot;Those who look the Empress in the &quot;Not of my mother nor of my My faith surrounds me and Earth, water, fire and air. You shall perish in our I'm afraid... I'm afraid I don't know how to do witchcraft. A prayer that might save My king, a strange cloud is Gather our men See you at the castle Give them the crazy guy and Do you really believe that? There's no end to all of this until... Red Archers forward. So then, let's go. And get ready to fight. Stop. Your Majesty, you Goes. Lock yourself in. And if you fall? Who Who will rebuild your kingdom You do not have a I fight for my people. I'm useless Goes. You, Your Majesty, are a greater I want to stand You're a brave man, madman. Does the mighty King We'll make short Prepare bow. The prisoner, my queen. King Malachy, show yourself! Deliver me the witch Why should I trust you, witch? You know that we are All I want is the witch hunter. And the book. In return I will He's worth a lot, isn't Do you really think blackmail Your witch hunter Charlatan? To the north tower. Immediately. My witch hunter seems There's something in the bush. Let them taste arrows. Shoot! Shoot! Get him back. The book. Our You have to keep it safe. You loser. Why I wanted to protect you, mother. Find the book! Get ready! Forgive me, Your Highness. Maybe you can What did you do with them? They are now her slaves, so she What will you do? It is her wish. Enjoy what little time you King Malachy, please. Don't humiliate yourself At the moment. Kill you? Why would I I've really wanted Besides escaping town, I've been On me? Why me? Because you, You are my son, Malachy. My father told me As a matter of fact. Something died And your sister. Look here. See. Your father desperately When your sister was But not for long. You were born Your father now had what he You were taken from us. I if it were in her power. But He banished me. I kneeled at your pleaded with him to give He allowed me to take my I curse you and your kingdom. I saved your son, and You will regret this betrayal He lied to me. He told you I died as a Yes. Otherwise I would What do you want I have a powerful gift, and this There is no bond stronger than Can't you feel the blood Now accept your lineage. Together we can reign in a My sister, I saw her. She has the gift of black We will be more powerful Never. Come on, look me in I will not hurt you. Have no fear. It is not fear Tell us where the Never. Maybe you would like it No!!!! What is it? Your witch hunter has more I ask you again: Why do you spurn Why? Because I am King of my people. And I would rather The inhabitants of your I will enslave them as I You are responsible for that. Take him to the dungeon. It's your choice. You want to please your queen, And what comes next? Who else Be quiet. You are an executioner And the king, your But you, you are nothing. If you don't give us the And when you are no longer Leave us alone. Josefa. Josefa! I know you have a Josefa! I have failed you. You must keep the book safe. If we give up our knowledge of No. Be aware of where you come from. There I come from the devil. The Red Queen... I am her son. My father banished her. He hid the truth from Her son? Do you know what that means? That means I'm cursed. Quite the opposite. Have you forgotten &quot;Death will come when the essence ...returns to her, completely, That's it. your blood, their You are the only person. Only you can kill them. Oh no. Josefa! Please! Please, Josefa! I have to ask you, mother. When were you going to tell me Is that all that concerns you? I thought you were whining because you had It would have been nice Someone who protects me, You know your way around You are becoming a nuisance to me, my dear child. I've waited years for Now the day has forever everything My triumvirate is only complete What? Shall we all really sit Now be quiet. Do you want to have me killed too? Would you take that I'm not a murderer. I have to kill the Red Do you know where I'll take you there. I will kill you for I'll kill you for this! Chill out. Chill out. No no no. Listen to me. Oh, you're alive. You live. We are in a hurry. Quickly, free him. He was a great man. My wait is over. The moment has come. Get ready. Don't show her any fear. And show her no mercy. How dare you to disrupt the At last my power It is not power that It is death. Oh, children... Don't you feel We are so much Together we will rule the world. Here and now. The light We are here to kill you. And we will do it. Don't doubt our words, Your power is no match for mine. I may have taught you too much, but No! Josefa! Jason! What did you do to him? Jason! Jason, wake up and I am your king. I am on your side, my king. Mother, I will not allow You are my son. You have to do it. Death comes to the when the essence that she to her, complete, with Not from my mother, I was born from the light. My faith surrounds me and Earth, water, fire and air. You shall perish in our Mister! We have triumphed But our victory Today we a brother and whose loyalty to the me will be a monument to Today we enjoy So let his sacrifice reminder that Together we are Draegenoth.