It hovers over us. It was scary, we were Just now, right in front of our eyes, the thermal power plant. Every day there are wounded. Every day we evacuate. But no one wants to leave Today... - They are losing legs and arms. But they say that the Russians Child, I need someone, I will... No one loves us, ordinary Police. Open the door, please. We want to talk to you. Why didn't you evacuate with your child? The child and his mother left. - Where? To Zakarpattia. My job is to evacuate the population. You have no right to keep the I'll say it again: the Now, look... In the village of Yantarna a 14-year-old boy was killed by You know? You are not You are putting your child in danger. I'm telling you honestly. the child and see that he is alive I did not come here to I came here to help you. - How? With what? With anything. If you don't have money, the guys will material assistance. 10,800 UAH per person. - How How long will it last you? As long as you can handle this... Will you forgive yourself if something and you don't help him. So consider that in our Let's get the fuck out of here. There was a hit ahead. We work in the village of Dachne, In the town itself, there The Russians are trying to storm directly entering the city itself. The situation is complicated. Today we are working with police It used to be the Kurakhovo police. They are informing, trying to the people who are still here to leave. And as it turns out, there are even It was your car that was burned Unfortunately, yes. At that time... We had two civilians on board, was a seriously wounded elderly woman. It is hovering over us. What should we do now? They didn't notice us? A transfer? Dnipropetrovska oblast. My daughter lives there, What's your address? Here... - The address... - To the It slipped my mind. And my sisters have moved away, not a word, not a half-word. You understand, I will take care of this everything in detail. Third house on the left. - Do you No, I don't have it with me. Third house on the right? I go right on the right, yes? Right and then left. How many people are in To evacuate. - Two. Me and my civilian wife. - No children? No. Animals, things, do you have a lot of I'll let the animals go. I'll let them go. We packed We can't take much, unfortunately. Only the basic stuff, maybe five bags. Maybe five bags. It's light, Okay, wait at the place of residence. We're going to finish We'll come to you, and But now Mr. Mykolayovych will try with his mother. He's good He's a man who has been working with who has a certain talent, he finds, let's say, a compromise. What do you think she doesn't want to go? Why do people even hide For me, this is some kind of... - Look, take even today's situation. We met a lot of people on We asked the following question: Everyone answered categorically: &quot;No&quot;. Everyone had the same reason for this. Some had already left and returned. Some simply do not have Well, I have already told That is, people are socially unprotected. They have no financial support. There are also those who have some them to their homes. let's say, who can invite them to live some kind of work, or something else. But the majority of people, unfortunately, That's why we have what we have. That's why we have such long conversations But, unfortunately... Well, I understand these reasons, territories, communicate with people. But this is the first time I actually This is something I do not understand. It is also difficult for me to understand. So, for the above reasons, and that's why she's hiding the child? I think, probably, yes. Calm down. Her daughter, granddaughter, right? - No one... Your application, will they take her, Go ahead, put her in this one. In the cradle, we'll do it. It's hard? Lift her up. - I'll Lift her up, lift her up. You don't have to stay here. - Where? We'll be fine! Wait a minute. You're leaving Where should we put her? Shouldn't we put her down? Grab it, Denis. Look, there are two handles... Lift it up. Help! Help! Oh, good! 35 days... The bus is leaving, let's go! Come on, girls, get in. If you want, you can ask to sit with It's just a short ride to that street. Sasha lives in the Poltava region. So you have hits here. Where are we to go, girl? We know what they'll tell us there! They humiliate us everywhere, since 2014! that! My eye is twitching, I'm sorry, girl, emotions. Everything here is so spontaneous, But they say that the Russians I'll have whoever, I will sweep up... No one loves us, ordinary I'll take a broom and sweep. No one needs us - neither we are ordinary people. They're sitting there in the Calm down... Do they think about us? I don't know when this will end. I think... They say they They are also going to Kharkiv. And what to do? You go It's scorched earth, my dear child. So what are you doing, my Honestly! And no one, the people, are And how can it be ended? I don't know, my daughter, Only through negotiations. How will you live now? Daughter, we... I can't say thank you. We have a secretary, our... the head of Thank you. We have always Do they bring anything here yet? We received a lot of money, every month. Have you saved up, will Well, we don't know, we don't know... We went to the basement, and she... I don't know what will happen She's 90 years old. This grandmother, this is what she said, how she said... &quot;Olya, where, in what book is it written What nation is the most important? What are we doing?&quot; Well, no, where is it written? There is no such thing. Why are we doing this? Or, for example, does she She says: &quot;If Russians are coming, they think it's their territory. Why are they bombing, for that matter? Why bomb it then?&quot; I don't understand. Aren't you afraid that Well, what can you take away from me? Tell me, daughter. Tell me, I don't know. I don't know. I have no idea what to do... You just know that many teachers And they said they would die, but they're not leaving here. They said: &quot;We will die and that's it. So what, I will stay here.&quot; Even though they took in two girls. But they said that we would not leave You can imagine, there is one grandmother How much does she have left? Well, are you planning You know, Diana, I just can't I didn't expect that they would take my her condition, you know? Oh, I don't know, she's so... I have diapers there... I don't know, I'm I think they will take her to some kind of your relatives will get in touch. I did such a sin... You know, I always have to see my mother But why? You can even go to her today or tomorrow. She's so poor... She was so hopeful, she said, &quot;Olya, You know, she's 90 years old, and She has such a good memory. I don't have that, you And it is not a fact that this &quot;The war has been and will be. I just The earth is already crying, my child. Bang, bang, bang, bang. This was not the case in Maryinka This year we have not And now it's just knocking out Mavic, drop bombs, FPV drop bombs. MLRS is working well, it everything that they use... Well, it's some strange drones, I had to climb up to get a connection They were so... You watch it fly by, these drones are strange... Some kind of art, you know, something triangular, square, flying A miracle of engineering, you know. Yesterday, with the dumps... A man and a woman. I just saw a trace of... No, near the first It was drop bombs because the drone was they hid somewhere in the bushes. Then it started to finish them off, in Civilians? - Civilians. Just now, right before our eyes, the thermal power plant. It was your car that was burned Unfortunately, yes. At that time, the drone... We had two civilians on was a seriously wounded elderly woman. It hovered over us. What should we do next? Didn't you notice it? What do you think will happen to Kurakhov? I think... I think that most likely... But, unfortunately, he will Marinka, the neighboring Let me show you there. No, I won't show you, because Just this evening. This is what happened to it. This is my house, this is my entrance. Or rather, what is left of it. Where was your apartment? It was on the first floor. Where you spent your childhood? - Yes. All my friends, too. I also studied there. Good evening. Mom... The evacuation is on the verge of No, no, take the highway. You should have It's on the verge of Police officers are like In any case, we will Every day there are wounded, But no one wants to leave They are losing their legs, their arms. Today in the basement... How many people were there when you left? There are people in every house. There were three. There There's a woman there, There were also people running around It was six in the morning, and none of 100-150 meters away, a poor Is this about Zmiy I don't remember the fairy No, made up fairy tales. - Made up? Yes, she still writes fairy tales for you. A storyteller, I guess. She told me a story today, too. Right on the go! She said to me: &quot;Well, listen. ...a human being, what would happen?&quot; Well, that's how she No, she's golden. - Golden! You're right. But my friend, it's very Very dangerous! You have to take care of your mother, and and then... - And that's what we do. And this is not taking care of yourself. This is to stay there to die You know? You won't stay there for Nothing. - ...only dampness. It smells damp. And dampness leads to big pain. That's right. That's right. And if you sleep there? You can get sick. - Definitely. So, bro... Listen, how's it going with you? Are you scared of what's going on? Are you scared in the basement? I'm scared for myself. What's been going on lately? Everything is flying, it's You must have lived in the basement. No, we were sitting at night. Anyway, I used to call You called her the Queen. A princess, I'd say! And she's so smart! Yes, she is! Listen, but it's a little scary... I'm already scared. How are you, with your patience here? Are I don't know. Your mom is a real tough lady. Is she strong? Does she cry at night? - Sometimes. She's probably afraid for you, worried. She doesn't know what to do. I'm for her, she's for me. There's no other way, brother, because to stay there: to die. Everything flies around... You've probably already learned it all, what are those drones flying around? Do I hear them? I can hardly I hardly hear anything at all. If I wake up, then if it strikes, Otherwise, I've stopped Even when it was very loud. It has been heaving a lot lately. At night I don't hear anything at all. This night I heard, a rocket flew, a little I fell asleep and didn't Is it scary at all? When you wake up, it's scary. I used to be scared of Baba Yaga. When I was a kid, I was And now you see, they scare