(Instrumental music) Last run, last day, man. Bringing 'um home. March 27, 1996, the town of Pahala in the Feels sad to see the sugar company phasing been in business. Can't do nothing about it. After more than a century, sugar is shutting If there's a job over here, probably I would Because this is my home. It's where I grew up. Hundreds of people losing their jobs. This day is their last. I'm gonna miss all the guys. Every now and then I see guys in the street this time?' And I miss all the chattering with the guys Hi! My name is Cliff Watson. I'm a freelance cameraman from Honolulu and I came to Pahala to record some images of And hopefully to get some of the stories of over time by this industry. It's hard. It was hard for me. I felt sad that we were going down. It's just one of those things. It died an agonizing death, but sugar served With 120 something years it was in existence. Sad to see an era go, but changing times. You gotta move on to something else. Audrey, my wife grew up in Ka`u. She still has family here so we try to visit My first visit to Pahala was about 13 years The more I learned about Pahala, the more Over the years, I realized that I wanted to preserve with my camera the passing of a lifestyle When every mill has been built, they bought brand, shiny new. Everything glistening, all the, all the chrome So, you've got all these photographs in history, mills looking like that. There's a tradition of the funeral photographer coffin. So, in a way I think of myself as this photographer Franco Salmoiraghi's photographic documentary Hawaiian events and history in isolated communities He has photographed the people and places Maui, Kalaupapa, Moloka`i, and the island Franco and I were working together on another the closing of Ka`u Sugar. Franco lived on the Big Island for 10 years the mill in the early 1970s. He decided to join me on subsequent trips community. It's a very poignant time in history, with jobs, the mill closing and really the end been, you know, over 100 years. 13 mills here, this was the last one. So, I felt a lot of excitement, you know, Franco and I started out together, sometimes At other times, we went off in separate directions. We wanted to record as much as possible. In a matter of time, this all would be gone. Regardless of why the sugar industry is phasing to miss the only way of life they have known Sugar meant jobs for workers and profits for With the immigrants who came to work in the These immigrants brought their own traditions that lived there, before sugar moved in. In 1858, there were only seven so called foreigners But then the Americans began to arrive. By 1870, they had acquired land, built homes And with the first harvest, the sugar industry My grandfather came from Portugal. And he worked in sugar company. And my father started when he was 14 years He worked for 51 years. I'm third generation. My dad's parents came from Japan. And they are, first, I guess they came in and they worked there in the sugar cane field. This was a land of opportunity. So, he came over here and he had, from what to sign with a plantation. Within three years, he would make enough money But so, he worked hard. In the meantime, the three years came about, So, he called for his wife. For 125 years, sugar meant work for generation Well, there was security, there was security, that time, you got it made. The sugar plantation had brought Audrey's contract laborers. By the time her parents' generation, the That was the 1920s when Pahala was a thriving People working hard and living by their strong The basic foundation is a family. And like, my parents used to stress the work In other words, you give a honest day's work, And we've tried, my wife and I, we've tried From the time you know, I was born and raised go to school, maybe from eight, eight years with different nationalities, you know, we It was a time and place where trust and honor I mean, you got to have integrity, because But people's memories, basically are very And so, it's very interesting. They remember basically the good times. That's the thing that sticks with them the It's been very rare that you get a negative Let me take one more and make sure I get a Okay, she's okay. Yeah. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Filipinos, Japanese, Koreans, Chinese, Hawaiian, We all had different camps. We used to get so many camps they called this And there is a Korean camp way down this side. They used to get, this is Spanish camp, yeah? Yeah. Yeah. And this is the Korean camp up here. And where we live that's the new Japanese This road here that leads up right in front you see up there, that slope up there used imported laborers, contract laborers were That's why they call it, this the Spanish With the company housing divided by ethnicity, where the final generation of sugar workers We live in a small community there. We had some kind activities. We like to beat these people here in a bigger That kind of competition you get. So, even all nationality feels that. We play for our community in Kapapala, we'd That's the kind of feeling we had when we Like baseball, basketball, all sports activities. For that matter, even the Filipino people Yeah. So, they have a team of Filipinos to challenge Different camps. We are only one police over here and we used The cop had only one eye, but he caught all His car I mean, if you seen his car was only his car whining, when he stopped you know, Well practically everywhere that movie theater, type talkies came in, they had the Japanese-type and he'd narrate right through the show. Every Saturday night in the old days. Every Saturday night there was a movie night. Next to that theater is a bank, Bank of Hawai`i. So, it was a rounded out community, you know, we had a courthouse, we had a jail in the It was a rounded out community with as I said, And the bottom was a bar and the restaurant Ranch every Fridays. And when I was a kid I used to hang around drink and then they have a fight and they'd up all the loose change because you know. (instrumental music) Today is really interesting being here with It was eerie in the mill after the shutdown. It was quiet with very few people around. We came across a group of workers removing Okay? (Camera snaps) Thank you. Everybody going home already. See everybody packing up their own car and You guys are on company time now or you're We're here to clear whatever stuff was taking Just yesterday, this was a place where many Today it is so different. It's a strange feeling being here. It seems as if the spirit of the mill is gone. When we first came to the mill, this is sort People come and go would come and go here. Many people going in and out and before the I guess tradition, once, every once in a while for the workers, and Eddie Andrade, who we He would set up these 50-gallon drums that out of them barbecue pits, and there'd be (Workers chatting) So, to come here now and to see it looking Yeah, it gives me goosebumps, it's really, There's so much that I missed that I never I would miss the mill. But I do miss the mill. I miss working there. I loved the environment there I love the crew that I worked with. I miss them. In the factory I tried all kinds during the And I used to try all kinds of machines, you caught. And then the superintendent just, you know, come and see him and he'll do it properly. So, I went up and took him up on that. And then that's how I learned all the different I've used my hands on my life. I'm a, mechanics is my forte. I've got a technique, a feel for machinery I can talk to the things I just work and I Because I was the only women working there, of the men. But the elderly gave me confidence in myself, Driving that cane truck and doing exactly I am scared. But I said when we sit down and eat lunch just as scared as me and it gave me more confidence bad. There's men that are afraid of this pali too. They're afraid this mountain. You can say was more dangerous, like all the that and responsible for. So, every day that you know you go, you, you You're thinking for safety because somebody When I got in the factory, I had more respect drivers. I mean, the men were there for me and it gave on Jen, you can do it. You can do it. I said hey, more I never get one big head. I just say hey working with this men made as an individual. Ka`u Sugar was the last commercial sugar The last survivor of names like Naalehu Sugar, Plantation and Hutchinson Sugar. Names that belong to generations past. I worked for this company 49 years. I was born and raised over here, right in They call the Hilea, way up, the sticks out Life has really changed though. The sugar, that's the one that keep our community You know they're the ones, the main thing, I'm, I'm very happy that we had this sugar Without that, I don't know. Yeah, we depend on sugar all our life. It's all that many of these people have known. That they've come here. They've grown up, they've worked. They've gotten married, they've had children. They've buried their parents. They've buried their children here. This is really their life. They were only paid, were making $9 an hour, Your life isn't dictated by the almighty dollar, you follow and if your wants are met that We're simple people. And we don't want too much drastic changes We just simple people that want to take day Audrey and I have always managed to get back One visit, we were welcomed into several different Japanese food and drink. On that day, we must have visited four homes. Not like the olden days. You get so many people get together. You know, they pound mochi the whole day. Those days, that, that was in our time though. I know, a lot of them went from house to house. And you know, and really party then enjoyed Everywhere I went along too, but I would say my generation in fact. You know, in our generation already was kind two or three families, only for your close But in the old days, they went to every house. As far as my family is concerned. Like Steve, he insisted we do it. So, my family we get together, and then we And every New Year's we all get together, Some cultural traditions lasts longer than People in Ka`u are friendly, but like people suspicious of outsiders. When I started this project, I expected they'd and lifestyle for posterity. But it was hard to get people to open up to The people because we were so isolated by You know, they tried to be together. And I think that still exists today. We are isolated. Nobody seems you know, when you ask when you Pahala, where? Then you have to mention Volcano. Okay. Is it near Volcano? Yes, so many miles away from Volcano. But we're really isolated. In a way it seems that Pahala is even more Over the years, many people have moved away So, when the last day of harvest came to Ka`u of Pahala, it made news across the state. The final crops of Ka`u cane were processed appropriately gray. Ka`u Agribusiness announced it would close members. Remembers them in their splendor when he joined That's how it was when I was a news cameraman and getting back to the station in time for But after spending time in Ka`u, I know news story. The people here realize they are facing a challenge Well it's hard to see it go because it's a to sugar. I mean, in varying degrees, maybe but I still I loved it. I loved getting up, going to work going to But I find I have to find myself to do other It was, it's hard. It was hard for me. But I think we're still going through that And things are in turmoil stages now. Yeah. But I think it'll be for the better though, When Cliff Watson and I decided to come photograph to document with our cameras the transition isolated community of Pahala for over 125 For us, it was an opportunity to be in Pahala and technological change, and to share that These video and still photographs will hopefully years to come. Perhaps 50 years from now the images will their ancestors and their history. In the meantime, the people of Pahala must Some former sugar workers are trying their Agribusiness, Eddie Andrade and his brother while others continue to search for what life