You're probably used to seeing solar installations towards the sky, which makes sense. You want energy, right? However, bifacial vertical solar Their more flexible-footprint has innovators in kinds of weird scenarios. People who are using energy yield than expected. The energy yield may shed some light on the source of this extra whole time, or is it all just a miscalculation? I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by Before we can solve this mystery, panels (alternatively VPVs or BVPVs)? Going entire video. We'll break it down in two and though they don't look much different there's a lot of things going on under the but there's actually photovoltaic cells We've explained how solar panels work in other silicon semiconductor, complete with positive knocking an electron away from a silicon atom, collected before it rejoins with the silicon. semiconductor creating a "hole." The two sides try The individual panels are connected together with Then, to protect all these components from the a layer of glass on and an opaque backing. That's This is a monofacial solar a bifacial solar cell (more commonly called opaque backing with more glass and occasionally might say, what's the point? These back panels talking about how one of the biggest issues with days can significantly reduce their energy the sun isn't going to do much. And you're not light - the bifacial cells can be up to 15% more is especially true in high-albedo locations, also works for high-albedo conditions, like is getting direct sunlight, or when snow on And I know what you're about to say, "Matt ... then that's where the extra energy yields are to tell you that the experts have already Well, we haven't talked about the "vertical" yet. Surely the extra energy must be related unlike our bifacial example, you can probably panels right away. You also probably know horizontal. To get the maximum returns on your set them to the same degree as your latitude. is about 42 degrees, so my solar panels, ideally, You're generally also going to want to point your So, if angle optimization is so well understood, check out this graph. These are the findings University of Applied Sciences. As you can orientation, they gather more energy in that to these graphs on peak energy it does fit much more closely with our energy So is this it? Did Leipzig crack the mystery nice bonus and doesn't explain the extra voltage, reveal exactly where those mystery bonus yields this is your last chance to guess! Actually, while we wait this would be the perfect Surfshark is a fast, easy to use VPN full of unlimited number of devices with one account. Most on giving yourself security as you travel around you can make it look like your IP address it unlocks geofencing blocks on content, like shopping services will sometimes gate prices based to make sure you're getting the best prices. unlock things like Surfshark Alert, which will like passwords, have been leaked online in Surfshark! Use my coupon code UNDECIDED for a 30-day money-back guarantee, so there's no using Surfshark for years and love it. Link is and to all of you for supporting the channel. To explain the mystery we have to change the way panels get hot (of course they do) because they're it ... mostly. Machines tend to perform worse as this with an older phone or computer. Ever lift may find that the phone displays a message that disabled to prevent damage to the phone. "Too solar panels can get a little too hot. When they you can see here a solar panel's voltage is the temperature of the solar cells. Increased logarithmically. Frustratingly, the increasing bright sunshine causes the voltage to centigrade).. Right when solar panels should be One reason for this inefficiency is the increased think of the atoms in a conductor, or the higher the temperature, the faster the representing our electrical current, you need to get through a lattice that is moving slowly most materials see an increase in electrical This leads to the results of the Netherlands (TNO) study. TNO installed a small vertical configuration in Petten, the Netherlands. They a simulation with a digital twin. This allowed them to more easily contrast their results What they found will surprise you. As you can clearly see here, the vertical bifacial solar panels have are Why? Their heat transfer coefficients, a from one material to another, are much lower than the ambient temperature, only half as hot as orientation and facing means they can dodge these lower temperatures mean less voltage is lost solar panels to generate more energy overall. The "These lower operating temperatures have a And thereby on the total energy generation, How much more voltage do VBPV arrays generate? to about 2.5% more energy annually. This might not optimization, even fractions of a percentage point when we're talking about something as scalable or something with hundreds or thousands of So, what exactly are the implications of this vertical-bifacial-photovoltaic-array-deployed-in-an-east-west-orientation ... more power from the a vacuum these are just plain better solar panels. Are there any downsides? Well you could argue that modeling, it's not as cut and dry as it might seem study notes that for six weeks of March and which is, y'know, not ideal. I'm not than their due diligence. My concern is that we find something that looks amazing in the to the real world. Unfortunately, it On the other hand, Bifacial vertical solar and have been on the market since 1983. so why are they rarer than their horizontal expensive than your standard solar panels because leads to increased manufacturing costs. Don't mounting equipment. If you want to ensure both then there's some additional installation factors panel are exposed to the elements, there's some all together, you can see why the upfront and norm. So yeah... vertical bifacial photovoltaic 100% of the time. However, TNO says the cooler should result in less degradation, which could There's also some use-cases where BVPVs are those additional benefits. Vertical solar panels just cram extra solar panels into that footprint, the sunlight and your yields will suffer. But as long as they don't block too much sun. What Certain low crops, such as peas and carrots, are from the shade that the panels provide. but land is a limited resource, so why not double solar engineering called agrivoltaics dedicated and farming-farming. Vertical solar panels are big between rows of veggies. I've got an entire video These benefits aren't limited to rural settings. solar panels alongside highways and train tracks green energy. Pretty clever! And some innovators foot print of a vertical PV by developing apartment's balcony. Norwegian company Over Easy it' in the big city. They're manufacturing "mini for use on rooftops. Last year, as part of installation covering 1200 m2 on a flat-roofed mentioned the TNO study to Over Easy CEO Trygve results with his BVPV module. "Indeed much higher So are vertical bifacial PVs the there are likely scenarios where financially or otherwise. And I'd like to see study before I jump to conclusions. As exciting they don't count. However, the preliminary already outperforming their horizontal brothers, likely has big ramifications for solar farms It's a good example of why experimentation significant optimization - even pretty well. This could be vertical So would you want to set up vertical the comments and let me know. And be sure where we'll be discussing some of your who get ad free versions of every video. delivering you these videos every week. If on early videos, check out the link in the