The Leprechaun is a C-Tier villain with won't go to recover his gold. Let's go The Leprechaun first wears a and heeled shoes. He has craggy skin, top hat, and an affinity for shining He's bulletproof can reattach lost limbs, mimic voices, use for powers, and teleport. After searching for his lost shilling, He's fed a four-leaf clover that melts his skin, before falling down a well, That gets drenched in gasoline In the sequel, the leprechaun sports a Robin Hood style getup, complete with cape and pointy hat, And his hair is longer and lighter. In this film - strangely - his nails are sometimes red. Fast forward 1,000 years and he's back in A purple-y lapel, puffy cuffs, darker shorts smaller buckles, Socks with thinner stripes and he's extremely bald. His new skills include creating This time he aims to claim a young bride, but is stabbed with an iron rod blowing him apart. In the third film, Lep first appears as a stone statue, But after his medallion is removed he's brought back to life. His lapel is no longer purple, his vest is a dark blue and his sleeves feature an additional chain. His shorts are now brown, his sock stripes are even thinner, his shoe buckles rounder and his skin is more heavily dotted. He also A psychic getup, doctor's scrubs and magician's attire. This film also portrays him expanding people to explosion and reveals that his bite, Mixed with his blood can turn his victim into a lap human-hybrid. Lep hits Vegas in search of his booty, but when it's burnt, he sets Leprechaun 4 introduces leprechaun in a black tuxedo, wooing a space princess. While his main look remains consistent the buckle on his hat is more circular. He also wears a sheriff costume, safety helmet, and a hazmat spacesuit. After being obliterated and peed on - his spirit flows into the miscreant allowing him to rematerialize. And he has the power to create force fields now. He faces off against Space Marines which accidentally enlarge him, But he's sucked into space and bursts apart. In Leprechaun in the Hood, Lep appears as a stone statue again, Gets awoken briefly and then transformed Years later, he's unleashed but his skin is darker, his hair even longer and he sometimes sports snazzy shades. His new powers consist of creating electrical currents and possessing people. He hits the hood looking for his magical flute, And then steps in to manage a rising rap star. In Back 2 Tha' Hood, Leprechauns clothes are darker, he wears a long coat, a frilly dress shirt and a fancy cloak. His top hat is taller and his face is He lacks most of his powers but his eyes can glow demon red. He's condemned and dragged into hell. Then, when his gold is discovered, he climbs out to reclaim it. But he gets crisped in an oven, shot with clover laced bullets and knocked into wet cement. The reboot, Leprechaun: Origins, features a hunched Goblin with an extremely deformed face. He can be imprisoned to my ancient monoliths and loves to feast on tasty people. But he's easily decapitated and promptly forgotten. Ignoring all the sequels, Leprechaun Returns opens with one of Lep's survivors Accidentally ingesting his well water, leading to Leps re-birthing. He appears shorter, and sports a brown suit, socks with much thinner stripes, an overcoat covered in fungus, while his nose is hooked And his skin is green and he has yellow eyes, curved ears and longer hair. His hat is smaller and covers up a prominent bald spot. He can now remove his face and also hide inside of his hat. Although sorority girls explode him to goo, He rematerializes as miniature clones and reforms as a full-size Lep. Eventually, the girls electrocute him to flames, Leaving him in need of a crucial makeover. And now? Well - we wait for the Old West reboot to complete this oddball series. Thank you for watching, liking and subscribing. Shout out to the patrons for supporting the videos. If you want to see more tiny terrors like: Critters, Gremlins or Ghoulies in the future let us know down below