From its very first episode, Lost made no mysteries. True to form, the series finale left audiences So if you want to know what really happened into the ending of Lost. For much of Lost's run, fans worried that the whole time&quot; twist. Creator J.J. Abrams and showrunners Damon speculation that the characters died in the Nevertheless, some viewers thought the finale's been lying the whole time, and that the entire This interpretation was also supported by empty beaches that aired over the closing had been no survivors. But it turns out that the crash footage at of the finale proper. Instead, as an ABC spokesperson later explained, &quot;decompress before heading into the news.&quot; The network never imagined that viewers would Furthermore, &quot;The End&quot; takes pains to explicitly on the island were, in fact, real. &quot;The most important part of your life was After five seasons filled with flashbacks of season six included something Lost fans exploring an alternate reality in which Oceanic safely at LAX. And that's not the only thing different about Instead of being a con man, Sawyer is a cop. Instead of the strained marriage they had And the childless Jack suddenly has a teenage a woman he met on the island. Was this all a dream? Or was it perhaps a parallel dimension created Or was this the true timeline, and maybe the In &quot;The End,&quot; the flash-sideways is revealed survivors are brought back together following In a way, it is a sort of purgatory where of their lives before they can recognize one This is where the Lost finale tripped up many in order for all of the characters on the same time, they must've died at the same time. But as logical as this reasoning appears at scrutiny. Not only does it fail to explain the presence on board Oceanic 815, it also doesn't account once they recognize each other. After all, if they all died in the crash, baby, or how could Sayid recall falling in The explanation given in &quot;The End&quot; is that back in season one, and others many years But time works differently in the afterlife. To the characters, it feels as though they their actual deaths were many decades apart. The only thing they all had in common was died during the plane crash. We would be here all day if we tried to list here's what we do know about the deaths of Boone dies in season one, succumbing to his Shannon dies early in season two after being and Libby dies toward the end of the second Charlie dies in season three, drowning after Penny's boat.&quot; Locke is strangled by Ben in season five. Juliet dies at the beginning of season six a bomb. Sayid dies midway through season six saving later in the same episode, drowning together And Jack dies at the end of the series finale, Then there are all the deaths that are left Kate, Rose, Bernard, Sawyer, Desmond, Penny, die at some point in the years afterward. And as the new protectors of the island, Hurley by quite a bit, but at some point, they must A significant portion of the finale focuses as the protector of the Heart of the Island, at the island's center. This is supposedly the source of all life, it's the cork holding back a malevolent force In the finale, this is revealed to be a literal nearly getting everyone killed. The Heart of the Island also emits a strong and time, as evidenced by the relocation of episodes. It's also implied to have a form of consciousness, to the humans who are willing to take on the While some of the earlier mysteries of Lost plausible sci-fi explanations, the Heart of elements of the supernatural as well. No details are ever given about its origins, inside every living thing, and if it goes &quot;What's down there?&quot; &quot;Life, death, rebirth. It's the source, the heart of the island.&quot; Throughout the series, it's revealed that before ever boarding the plane, implying that same doomed flight and end up on the island In the final season, we learn that Jacob has He travelled around the world in order to the island, in the hopes of finding someone protector. He knew that his brother, the Man in Black, eventually succeed. So Jacob sought to find a successor before Jacob chose people who reminded him of himself. They were individuals who were alone and flawed, much as it would rely on them to keep it safe. All of the Oceanic 815 survivors fit this Jacob was able to observe their interactions list of candidates. None of the connections we saw between the They were all engineered by Jacob. One of Lost's most enduring mysteries is the column of black smoke that occasionally attacks It turns out that the smoke monster is another when Jacob threw him into the Heart of the mother. For the next 2000 years, Jacob and the Man Black searches for a way around the supernatural &quot;One of these days, sooner or later, I'm going &quot;Well, when you do, I'll be right here.&quot; As the smoke monster, he can't be killed, Over the years, he assumes his smoke form to the island, hoping that if Jacob dies and finally leave. Ultimately, though, the Man in Black's immortality Desmond temporarily shuts it down in the finale, ending the smoke monster forever. The DHARMA Initiative first came to the island the island's unique properties and harnessing While DHARMA conducted research across all secrets, they never fully understood what supernatural Heart of the Island. But that didn't stop them from trying, and in an attempt to make sense of the bizarre DHARMA was eventually wiped out by a group to Jacob, known to the Oceanic 815 survivors By the time Oceanic 815 crashed, DHARMA was whether DHARMA might've been responsible for But DHARMA didn't create any of the island's Those already existed long before the scientists they came in the first place. At the end of the finale, after the main characters together on the island, they make their way a number of different faiths. Christian Shephard then explains to his son by and for the Oceanic 815 survivors. &quot;This is a place that you all made together According to Christian, once they were all church, one by one. When Jack first arrives at the church, he he's there for his funeral. But the coffin is empty, and the funeral that his loved ones and hope for a new future together. The church seems to symbolize that all the past lives, and they're finally ready to be When Christian opens the doors at the end it's safe to assume that signifies &quot;moving Even though Ben Linus's presence in the flash-sideways were the most significant people in his life, &quot;You know, you were a real good number two.&quot; &quot;You were a great number one, Hugo.&quot; This exchange between Ben and Hurley seems island for a long time after the events of That Ben was drawn to the church with the at least, his service to the island was enough done in life, and that he could move on with However, Ben opting not to enter the church yet. Perhaps he still has more people to find in despite having been forgiven by some of the terms with what he did. It's never clarified what happens to Ben after hope that, eventually, he finds peace. And hopefully, after nearly a decade, all affected so many of us! Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Looper videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the