Holiness is something that I don't think and when they try to imagine holiness, they think of rays of light And that might be true But what about God's They can't literally shine light holy? To help you understand holiness Let's look at this tray of blueberry And let's say me but my little brother So before he leaves, So I go to the tray of muffins and Technically speaking, this muffin would be counted as holy. Why? Because the word holy means set apart. So, due to the fact that my brother's blueberry muffin was separated and the fact that it's different because this muffin belongs to my brother so when God describes himself as being pure and without blemish that he is completely different We are created. He is uncreated. We are imperfect. Our strength is limited. His strength cannot be measured. And while our love can fail, So note that God, being infinite in power, knowledge, and purity, is unlike anything And for that reason he is set apart. Or in other words, he is holy. And in Leviticus chapter 11, to his people, be holy, for I am holy. So while this command can be a bit here are five steps that can help God's So step number Revelation chapter four, verse eight. The four living creatures, each having around and within, Holy, holy, holy Lord God Almighty, In this passage and he stood in the throne room of God. And around one looked like a lion The third had a face like a man, each had six wings and were full of eyes. Now do they sound creepy? Yes. But I have the belief that these creatures And I don't think that God, who created would surround his throne And we'll cover angels But the point that I want to make here that were granted the privilege to don't rest day or night. And they continually say, Holy, holy, holy Lord God Almighty, And I want you to notice that out of all of God's attributes, They're not saying loving, loving, loving or strong, Instead, they focus, highlight, Probably because God's holiness affects Remember the blueberry muffin that was different and set apart Well, God's love is different His mercy is separate from anyone else and his strength is set apart from anything else that is strong In fact, God's wisdom, and sense of justice are all holy to anything that we know. And to say holy once was not enough So they repeat, Holy, holy, holy or separate, separate, separate Because you, God, are completely You are your own category. And there can be no comparison. Because while everything is limited, So what would happen? Should a holy God come into contact Look at Isaiah chapter six, verses 3 to 5 to another and said, Holy, holy, The whole earth is full of his glory. And the posts of the door were shaken And the house was filled with smoke. So I said, woe is me, for lips, and I dwell in the midst For my eyes have seen the King, In this passage, Isaiah was brought and he also saw angelic creatures And they also cried out, Holy, holy, holy. and in response to what Isaiah saw, that was only capable and all Isaiah could pay attention to. As he looked upon was the fact that he shouldn't be there that he was, There was a time in my life after handling greasy equipment it was only a matter of time And I remember a time when I needed to And as I walked in, I saw that and the floors were clean, everything put in place, and I remember feeling out of place, dirty if I wasn't careful. And I remember feeling embarrassed to everyone else. Now that's just me Imagine how sinners would feel good and holy, to look past everything His eyes would see all that we thought, And next, imagine the guilt and despair as they see Tozer, as he describes We must hide our own holiness As Moses hid himself in the cleft of the We must take refuge from God in God. Above all, we must believe while he disciplines and chastens and purges us, So in a nutshell, what Tozer explains here from the penetrating because it's only through faith in Jesus that people can be righteous So when it comes to being holy, that God is completely holy and is completely separate We'll get back to the video But first, this video was brought to you The Firing Squad, and it's a Christian film The Firing Squad is a powerful, true story in a third world prison, transform the entire camp This film is not just entertainment. It's a profound witness to the strength The film stars James Barrington, Kevin Sorbo, We were actually given the chance before its release, and I love the fact And like the characters in the film, I think that we should all especially when times get tough. The Firing Squad carries and your attendance will help ensure that Your support but it also sends a message to Hollywood have a dedicated audience. So together that uplift and inspire. So join us in theaters Squad film.com on the site and click the link Okay, and back to the video. step number two. Remember that you were saved by faith. not because of your goodness. Romans chapter five, verses 1 or 2. therefore, having been justified by faith, Jesus Christ, through into this grace in which we stand, In this passage, Paul explains that people by faith, and because of this, God So now people can have access by faith and can rejoice It's important it says that God has wrath against And in Romans 623 it says that the penalty Or in other words, God being a holy God, Otherwise he could not be just So God And Jesus paid our penalty of death So Romans five one tells us and that it's through can have peace And the reason why this is so important to being holy for God, that it's not the good things that we do Remember what Tozer said In God. and what that means is and righteous judgment of God And when people have faith and believe Jesus clothes them And if that sounds too good to be true, five, verse 21 for for us, that we might become You see, the only way for an unholy To have peace with an infinitely holy but to be holy through grace, by faith. Note how the passage says So when it comes to being holy, that they can never be holy but they are only made righteous You see, Jesus was treated And by doing so, And now he treats us in complete perfection, without any sin. So remember, when it comes to being holy, we are saved based on God's grace, not based on what we do. And the reason why is because people by their own actions will soon and we'll do all these holy But Miss God. and they'll struggle with their pride, and will most likely And that leads us to step number three. Don't lose sight of people, Now, early in the morning he came again into the temple, And he sat down and taught them. then the scribes and Pharisees and when they had set her in the midst, this woman was caught in adultery Now Moses in the law commanded us But what do you say? In this passage, Jesus was teaching. And the Pharisees brought a woman And they told Jesus that this woman and this was supposed to put Jesus because Jesus preached love and took care of the people. to be stoned to death, At the same time, God's Word did say that those who are in adultery must be stoned. So if he didn't stone her, Either way, whether or not Jesus chose And the Pharisees knew this. so Jesus answers and using his finger And as the religious leaders he didn't pay attention to them. And he kept writing with his finger. And Jesus stands up and tells them, he who is without sin And Jesus goes And soon as the people were looking at they all left one by one And to this day, no one can be completely And I'm thinking that Jesus wrote to stone the woman because as Jesus wrote, And when they all left, And Jesus looks at her and asks, hey, the only one condemning you? And she said, no one is. And then Jesus said, Go and sin no more. So what I want you to pay attention to is His holiness is infinite. And what I love is that Jesus ignored holy things, but he gave his undivided attention to this woman caught in sin. And that brings me to this who desire to be holy for God. Don't lose sight of people. You see, Jesus, spent all his ministry and he fed, taught, And in passages like this, we can see that and the helpless. So for people they must learn to live like their God. And that means being a servant to people. So when it comes to being holy. Step one defines holiness. And steps two and three really focus when it comes to being holy. And that leads us to step number four. Give different sections of your life First Peter, chapter one, verses 13 to 16. Therefore gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober, and rest your hope fully upon at the revelation of Jesus Christ as obedient children, not conforming as in your ignorance, you also be holy in all your conduct, Be holy, for I am holy. In this passage, Peter tells the church to be alert And then he reminds them of God's call and the key that I want you to see here in to rest their hope fully on God's grace. And afterwards it says to be holy. So as Christians, yes, but we need to make sure that these steps And as this passage says, believers on God's grace and not the hope of them So once we rest in the fact and that we don't need to do anything it is then that we can take steps So remember, as children of God, not because we have to, but because and because we have a heart to please So once you set your hope believers need to take serious steps As God is holy. So here's some ideas. Should you desire more holiness Start by looking at the physical places to in your everyday life. And then contemplate to give God total control of that area. So for you, home, church, So for now, just take one of those locations in your life Next, showing up, Now, if you want to make your work holy, you would want to make it So if you were to look at all there would be some people who show up their best. Others who take shortcuts or people or some people And the question that I want you that is set apart and different And to help you visualize this more. Try to imagine He probably wouldn't be late. He'd probably care about the people And he'd probably go out of his way the needs and demands of his work. You see this passage in First It's challenging because it says to be So if we're doing anything at work, we should look to see how we can make it I remember back when I first started And I didn't really know And I worked with a few guys We lifted heavy equipment, transported needed materials, And as I worked with them, Christians. And immediately in order I need to work harder than all of them. Because if I represent God and character are from him, my work so I remember doing my best to show them that I wasn't a stranger And I made it a point to learn And I remember the day Because a supervisor came to the field and questioned and all my coworkers who are my good And they ensured this supervisor that I do and as time passed, I was able to tell and that there is a God, So for you think about something and then ask God for wisdom can be holy and set apart and different. In addition to the physical places, you can give God are the weekly activities So you can give God your hobbies, or your relationships either with family and if you want to make one of these holy, I'd recommend And then to reflect on what God thinks about it, and maybe that looks like you and you pray. God, thank you for this time to exercise. Please help me to be strong for you. Or maybe when you play that board game you make it a point to connect so you can encourage them. Or maybe as you're surfing, and thank God So again, in the same way Peter tells us Really And then give and dedicate And as you do this, meditate on John 330 he, God must increase, And step number five Matthew chapter five, verses 14 to 16. You are the light of the world, like no one lights a lamp Instead, a lamp is placed on a stand where In the same way, for all to see, so that everyone In this passage, And as his disciples gathered around him, And in the same way that lamps but on top of a stand, allow their good deeds to shine now we need to be careful and they prayed and fasted and that's the difference. They wanted themselves So one of the ways we can do this step is to do things for God So as you try to get to work on time, don't do it so that you can get recognized instead do good so that when people look and really quick. Be careful with false humility for your hard work and you shut it down It's okay to smile and to thank people if they notice and maybe as they notice, to direct their attention Remember, God does want your good deeds That way your love, your gentleness, will get people to think And the reason why they'll think that is And I think John 1334 to 35 proves where Jesus says, Love each other just as I have loved you. You should love each other. Your love for one another will prove to Okay, so if you're someone that wants to Know that God is absolutely holy. Remember that you were saved by faith, Don't lose sight of people. Give different sections of your life what makes you different. to close. I think one of the most difficult especially if there's a particular And I would say is to continue And to make consistent attempts Because as you give little pieces affect the way that you work, and the way and as these grow from a step of faith over time holiness And you'll start growing And when that time comes, you'll find that And the reason that if you walk in the spirit, So take your holiness one small don't do it because you have to,