Hello everybody and welcome to my channel! I'm Valentina and today I show you how to make the easiest Italian Panettone without mold and without a stand mixer!! It turns out very fluffy and with the original Italian flavor! Make the mold: 58x24 cm parchment paper rectangle. Fold it in half. Press it well. Press the fold through your fingers to give a round shape. Close like a ring overlapping 4 cm. Use a stapler to close the ring (3 points each side). 4 strips of parchment paper 36x3 cm. Set aside for later. 80 g raisins Soak in lukewarm water for at least 15 minutes. 180 g lukewarm water 18 g honey Dissolve honey in lukewarm water. 7 g (2 tsp) active dry yeast or instant yeast If your yeast needs to be activated, let it rest for 10 minutes. Skip this resting time if you use instant dry yeast. 140 g sugar 110 g melted unsalted butter 70 g of beaten egg yolks at room temperature (from about 4 eggs). Mix until well combined. 1 tsp vanilla extract Grate the zest from 1 orange Mix until well combined 410 g of strong bread flour (14 g protein) Gradually incorporate flour in 3 steps. I'm using 410 g of Manitoba flour that is a strong bread flour with 14 g of protein All purpose flour doesn't work well for this recipe. Use a strong bread flour with at least 13 g protein. You should get a very sticky dough. 100 g candied orange chopped in large chunks. Drain and dry raisins. Add the 80 g of raisins. It should be very sticky. Don't worry this is the right consistency! Cover and let it rise for 30 minutes in a slightly warm place (or at room temperature if you live in a hot climate). Wet your hands and make 4 folds rotating the bowl one quarter after each fold. Cover and let it rise for 30 minutes in a slightly warm place. Wet your hands and make the second series of folds. Cover and let it rise for 30 minutes in a slightly warm place. Wet your hands and make the third series of 4 folds. As you can see the dough is more elastic and less sticky! Cover and let it rise for 30 minutes in a slightly warm place. Wet your hand and make the fourth and LAST series of 4 folds. Cover and let it rise for 30 minutes in a slightly warm place. Pull away from the bowl. Invert onto the work surface. Touch the dough as little as possible and form into a ball. Quickly lift the strips and stick them to the dough. Quickly fit the paper ring. Lift the paper strips to lift the dough so the paper ring will perfectly fit! The paper strips are needful to avoid that the paper ring lifts while Panettone rises. Well seal with plastic wrap. Let it rise in refrigerator overnight (from 8 to 24 hours). Alternatively let it rise in a warm place until almost reaches the edge top. Let it rest 30 minutes at room temperature without plastic wrap to dry the top. Use a blade to score a 1 cm cross on top. Using the blade, you can cut the 4 segments of dry film on top and open them. This method is called &quot;scarpatura&quot;, just skip it if you don't have a blade. Place 4 pieces of butter on top. Fold and crossing the 4 flaps. If you just score a cross on top, place only 1 piece of butter in the center. Bake in preheated oven (no fan, upper+lower heat) at 160degC for 50 minutes. After about 25 minutes baking, place a double aluminium foil on top. It's ready when a skewer comes out clean. Cool down for at least 2 hours before slice it. The cons of homemade mold, is that you can't invert Panettone upside-down while cooling! This will deflat a bit the top... Check out my Easy No-Knead Panettone recipe video to see how I cool down Panettone (with mold) upside down. After 2 hours. It smells simply amazing and it's incredibly fluffy! Slice with a serrated knife. This is my favourite Panettone recipe and I've tried so many techniques and recipes! Folding the dough every 30 minutes for 4 times it's 2 hours consuming, but you work only 2 minutes for every fold series so you work only 8 minutes for the dough! You can make this recipe if you have a 1 kg store-bought Panettone paper mold and it will work even better! Check out all my Panettone recipes and tips in the description box!