In November 1918, the German army was beaten Less than a year earlier though, Germany and had defeated Russia, and outnumbered the British So why did Germany lose World War One? The German Empire entered the First World army in the world - but by November 1918, Allied terms and a revolution had replaced The explanation for Germany's defeat in as a numbers game. Yes, the Allies had more men and more money likely it was the Allies would win, all things But nothing in history is inevitable, and Germany lost its chance to win a quick victory the Marne, but the Central Powers may have As historian Holger Afflerbach put it: war [after 1914]; but it required very grave Afflerbach 513 bad decisions that shaped the war's outcome its control, and it was by far the strongest we'll focus on them to explain Germany's Germany's famous war plan in 1914, the Schlieffen the war against a more powerful enemy alliance. But as 19th century Prussian General Helmuth is certain: beyond the first encounter with the enemy's (Hart 32) the hard way in August and September 1914. German planners and commanders pushed their the army they actually had, neglected logistics, Coupled with a desperate and effective reaction the war would not be over quickly. To make matters worse for the Germans, they neutrality. The wild gamble had gone wrong: France was the Central Powers to face the unhappy prospect Still, the Central Powers weren't necessarily was unlikely. Some historians argue they might have wrung stronger enemies. If it weren't for more risks and mistakes * The High Command failed to effectively 1914 and develop a coherent plan to win or * The army wasted precious manpower in the tactics on the Somme in 1916. * Planners were unable to maintain food the Allied blockade. * Germany failed to properly manage its always coordinate their military operations, talks without the Germans knowing. * Germany's system of governance was ineffective: but was weak, the military eventually took or politics and interfered with those who * And another huge gamble that blew up in submarine warfare in 1917, which failed to the United States. That's not to say Germany didn't have They (with Austro-Hungarian help) inflicted 1915, Romania in 1916, and Italy in 1917. They managed, with far fewer resources, to develop new ways of producing fertilizer, to join the Central Powers. The Allies also made mistakes of course: inefficient offensives in Lorraine and East Prussia in the Somme in 1916, and in Flanders, on the in 1917. The difference was that as the weaker belligerent and every mistake brought it closer to defeat Their prospects for victory once the US joined command admitted in late 1916 it could not So, Germany failed to win a quick victory defeat further reduced by mistakes in the But then, the Bolshevik revolution in late defeat. And so Germany gambled once again. In December 1917, the Central Powers and Bolshevik signed the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk in early With Russia out of the war, Germany now in and American troops not yet in France in large the outcome to the war. As German divisions moved from East to West more great gamble, and many in the Allied British Cabinet Secretary Maurice Hankey reported "[Du Cane] envisages the possibility of from us, the enemy demanding as a condition from Rouen and Havre to Dunkirk, and, in the of our Army by the whole German army. He [...] considers that, if we wanted to go prospect of a million prisoners in France." Ferg 315 offensives could achieve, like social democrat we were to take Calais and Paris. Suppose such a breakthrough were completely [...] we have overrun entire states, we have yet we still have no peace." Watson 515 was still within reach. On March 21, 1918, the German Army launched Michael against the British 5th Army. More than 70 divisions supported by 6500 guns to split the two Allied armies. German forces pushed the British back, took advances in the west since 1914. Ludendorff explained that he would set objectives "In Russia we always merely set an intermediate next." Watson 517 of steam and the British, with French help, The German High Command then unleashed a series and French sectors: Operations Georgette in June, and Friedensturm in July. In the end these last-ditch attacks all made not result in the capture of any significant the British and French to ask for peace terms. The Western Front was not Russia, and the the front, with General Ferdinand Foch taking The French then launched a major counteroffensive good. The British followed with their own attack Black Day of the German Army." From then on, the Allies advanced without and while the German army still fought back, The Allies also achieved crushing victories in the closing phase of the war, meaning that longer in the west, it was completely unable In October Ludendorff told Berlin to ask for fighting came to an end November 11, 1918. So, what happened in that critical period Du Cane and others feared, but in a clear The German offensives from March to July broke victory. In March and April alone, they lost 280,000 By the end of July, the figure was 977,000 from Germany's best units, including the German soldier Frederick Meisel described "French shells began to hit to the right in agony. Our advance came to a stop and [...] soon filled with gas and flying pieces of steel. [...] I reached for my gas mask, pulled it horror that a splinter had gone through it [...] I felt like an animal cornered by hunters. [...] I leapt at [a man whose wound I had his gas mask from his face. [...] The last thing I saw before putting (Hart 433) month, but each month only saw 70,000 recovered recruits. These losses caused overall German strength 4 million men six months later. Meanwhile, the Allies were growing stronger, The British released reserves they had held two million Americans were in France. Even if the Americans played a lesser role German rifle strength had outnumbered the April, but by November there were just 866,000 (Ayers 104) once each drive ran out of momentum. If the Germans had taken rail hubs like Amiens Allied logistics. Major Wilhelm von Leeb was critical of the "OHL has changed direction. It has made its decisions according to the goals." Keegan 404 tactics and innovative artillery tactics thanks they couldn't turn them into a campaign-winning The Allies, on the other hand, adapted and When the German offensive threatened the Allied reserves from the home front. The Americans, who had insisted until now lend out some of their divisions to the French The French transferred forces to the British British commander Douglas Haig, who had until to serve under French General Ferdinand Foch, forces. And the Allies were better at the most modern latest industrial weapons on a mass scale. Germany had invented all sorts of new weapons but the Allies beat the Germans at their own They had 800 hundred tanks in the field while to the Germans' 3700, 18,000 guns to Germany's supplies - of which the Germans only had (Ferg 290) France alone produced about 50% to the Germans in terms of the quality of artillery pulled by tractors, and available Historian David Steveson summed up the shift: overtook their enemies not only in numbers In the process they pioneered the characteristic (S. 243) Stevenson Although the German army was beaten, it was fully expected to fight on to complete victory Instead, Germany suffered a devastating collapse Even before the spring offensives began, many got stronger as 1918 went on. Up to 180,000 German troops deserted on route When they advanced in the field, some infamously also began attacking their own supply trains British military intelligence also noticed "The belief is prevalent among officers Watson 527 common, including groups or even whole units. This wave of surrenders accelerated until to slowly disintegrate. In just the last three months of the war, some counts, almost as many French troops Many within the rank and file became convinced interests, just those of the high command, Schwindler: the killing stop. It doesn't matter to us, if we end up German (Zkora 124) they felt disoriented as units suffered such loyalty. Overall, the army suffered a nominal loss if a unit had 1000 men in January 1918, by replacements who joined in that time, a total And commanders often threw the remnants of them back up with replacements. Unit cohesion suffered even more because the of men between the field army and industry (Zkora 141) inside Germany had had enough as well. Workers suffering from malnutrition and war-weariness rather than sail out for a final suicide mission Public anger turned against the Kaiser and a full-fledged revolution in early November Netherlands. Meanwhile, the Allies renewed their propaganda relations with labour unions, and took advantage arriving in France to make sure that even Of course, millions of Germans, military and But millions did not, and that tipped the As the crisis deepened, Germany's top generals the corner, In the late summer, they panicked more than once in the second half of the year. In mid-August, Ludendorff and Hindenburg informed that Germany could not win the war. Ludendorff then changed his mind on this question, September, he announced on October 3 that war was irretrievably lost. He also told Hindenburg that he had no confidence been infected by socialism. The German high command had led the army into what was left of morale by admitting defeat Historian David Stevenson summed up the impact: was let down by a failure of generalship." Stevenson 78 So, 1918 saw the German army defeated in the but it also saw the failure of German wartime From 1916, the German military established out to be pretty bad at governing. Different interest groups among the German give the war a coherent meaning, and none The army high command generally saw no political mistakenly believed in, their own military defeat. The Kaiser and the High Command stuck to maximalist effective strategy. They still insisted on annexing Belgium, Luxembourg, Ludendorff and Hindenburg even forced Foreign he said that the war could not be decided These rigid objectives were at odds with Germany's as soon as possible starting in 1916. The Allies coordinated far better, aligning of Austria-Hungary, and the League of Nations would break down after the war. And although Germany won in the East in 1918, of German troops tied up occupying the territories fewer resources for the campaign in the west. In the turmoil of the former Russian imperial even able to extract the food they needed the so-called "Bread Peace" with the new These policies were at odds with the desire soldier in fall 1918: when our offensives had their greatest success? No! Now, when we are taking it on the chin, they Just like in December of 1916." (Phd 121) consistently turned to coercion as a tool citizens. When Chancellor von Hertling told Ludendorff Quartermaster General simply replied that Austria-Hungary did the same, constantly seeking of its own Ukrainian citizens on suspicion divisions to the interior to keep order against Germany also failed to react to crises and Austria-Hungary was suffering from extreme but what little food the Central Powers did Ludendorff famously had a breakdown when the everything on the west and leaving large occupation to support the Austrians in Italy or the Bulgarians The Allies on the other hand, had leaders representative of the men in the frontlines President's Wilson's message that the as a result. They also used their command of the sea and 1917) and Argentina to help feed and fund and France in their worst moments of economic The German Empire waged a war of risks from Berlin took these risks because it was the off total defeat. The final gamble in spring 1918 also ultimately goals, the army was beaten in the field by and the other Central Powers collapsed. The home front collapse did indeed help end retreat and disintegrating due to poor morale, and the Nazis later claimed. That myth, however, would help convince many for the next World War. In 1945 however, the Allies didn't stop of 1918. In early 1945 the Allies set their eyes on was gearing up for their Berlin Operation. The Battle of the Rhineland would be the last of Berlin the last one in the East. Millions of Allied soldiers stood at the ready the last German reserves would have to defend. If you are curious about these two often overlooked series that together run for more than 8 hours. In Rhineland 45 we cover the Battle for the until the Allied crossing of the Rhine that landing of the entire war. In 16 Days in Berlin we document the entire Both documentary series were filmed on original Forgotten Weapons or David Willey from the War in an uncompromising way that wouldn't So where can you watch 16 Days in Berlin and On Nebula, a streaming service we built together On Nebula we don't have to worry about the viewers there support us directly simply by ad-free and usually uploaded earlier than If you head over to nebula.tv/thegreatwar subscription right now and watch 16 Days in Original series Red Atoms about the Soviet And that's not all, apart from a growing now also includes classes. In our newest class I teach you everything documentary and give you a glimpse behind That's nebula.tv/thegreatwar for 40% off at Real Time History directly. As usually you can find all the sources for If you want to watch some other World War video about the downfall of the Imperial Russian where Germany learned the wrong lessons about If you are watching this video on Patreon I am Jesse Alexander and this is a production The only history channel that is also sick