Robert R. Reilly: our speaker tonight a gentleman who is currently Institute, Ibn Warraq, who was kind enough so he commutes as senior research fellow here. He is also senior fellow at the London Center Now, he has an extraordinary background, including you who have studied Islam will know Montgomery in that field. Ibn Warraq was a student of his. He is the author of many books, ten of them As you know, his most recent book, which he Islamic Terrorism, the Importance of Beliefs, We have some books for sale and for Ibn Warraq Now, among the books for which Ibn Warraq I am not a Muslim, also, The Origins of the What the Quran Really Says, Defending the Why the West is Best and other such works. Ibn Warraq studied Arabic and Persian at the We are delighted to have him tonight to speak I just warn you all [that] I will be the one Please keep your questions brief tonight so questions, and Ibn Warraq has a chance to on you to do that. Please join me in welcoming Ibn Warraq. Ibn Warraq: splendid introduction. Robert just mentioned Montgomery Watt. I said a lot of harsh things about him. Perhaps, I do not know, Freudians can make He was my professor, and I really did not great student either. I went off in disgust and did another degree in London. Anyway, I will be talking about my book. The arguments of the book are fairly straightforward, the analytical table of contents, so it makes I have a lot to get through or say. I begin with a couple of quotes from two people. One was an expert, Marc Sageman. Bob has written about him. I do not know, perhaps he is present tonight. And the other one was from a reader, who it in California. Here is what Marc Sageman says. Marc Sageman, a &quot;government counterterrorism &quot;the result of the beliefs and perceptions He is claiming beliefs have nothing to do This is an 'expert' on counterterrorism. Second is this reader who sent me the note, Sacred Qur'an has existed for 1400 years, only over the past forty or so [years]. The Qur'an is not the issue.&quot; This shows incredible ignorance of the history the beliefs [of terrorists]. I tried to argue that Islamic terrorism did years or so, but from its foundation in the seeking to revive true Islam, which its members who were not living up to the ideals of the Groups such as the seventh century Azraqites and to cleanse the body of Islam of the corrupt Muslim religion. Today, Deobandi extremists, for example, can Islam during the eighteenth and nineteenth Shah Waliullah, who died in 1762, and so on. And then another historical fact which is ever seen even any general introduction to about what I talk about in two or three of in the ninth and early 10th century Baghdad Salama and Barbahari and the rejection more religious violence in Baghdad between The violent Qadizadeli Movement in 17th the movement launched by ibn Abd al-Wahhab has influenced almost every modern terrorist Wahhabi extremism spread as far as India, Arabia to this day. As to the scholars that I rely on in my introduction, the modern movements, you have to keep referring of the revivalist movements, whether in India, One such scholar who is at This is Madeline Zilfi. She is a specialist on the last centuries She says that &quot;the reason Islamic fundamentalists Islamic community lies in that community's as a period of righteousness. Ever since the epoch of the Prophet and his distancing, it was felt, from its ideals. Since all human activity is seen as a sacred dress, is seen as an unacceptable innovation established by the Prophet and his companions. As a tradition (hadith) reminds us, every and every error leads to hell.&quot; This was a quote from Madeline Zilfi. On the whole, I rely on primary texts for from authority. I do rely on people like Montgomery Watt and greatest Islamologues of the last sixty years Incidentally, Bernard Lewis is still alive. He is 101. I saw him just a few weeks ago. I do not think he recognized me, but anyway. I do not know what it is about Islamic Studies, Rodinson lived to be 89. I got to know Rodinson as well. As Bernard Lewis with his customary elegance, of the last fifty years, Bernard Lewis. He wrote, &quot;No one, least of all the Islamic their creed and political program are not But Islamic fundamentalism is just one stream have passed since the mission of the Prophet. There have been several such movements --fanatical, Led by charismatic religious figures from begun by denouncing the perversion of the false and evil Muslim rulers and leaders of &quot;Sometimes these movements have been halted At other times they have gained power and is usually referred to as the near enemy, and apostates, and then abroad against the In time these regimes have been either ousted in a fairly short period - into something worse, than the old establishments that they Something of this kind is already visibly So, over and over again we see this desire past, the pristine, pure faith of the early and all their deeds and sayings are recorded There are six canonical collections, but there thousand pages of descriptions of their behavior, shall see in a minute, where this duty comes to do something about it. There is nothing passive about Islam. There is nothing passive about the Qur'an. [It] is not a quiet, meditative text, enjoining It does not encourage any personal meditation It actually exhorts people to act, [to] do It is rather like the New York subway. If you see something un-Islamic, do something I will now go to the usual reasons given for fallacy. The explanations for Islamic terrorism are sometimes also they throw in a lack of knowledge Islam, if you really knew the Qur'an, you It is the other way around, really. And then, of course, there is the Israeli-Arab and there is Western imperialism, and then making this up, even climate [change], global It is odd. It is very odd that global warming should I go through all these. I show one by one that none of these explanations For the socioeconomic argument, I look at Eddin Ibrahim. He did two very in-depth analyses of various the time in Egypt. He was rather surprised and pleased that they shows quite clearly - this is 1977, between He shows quite clearly that the terrorists They knew a lot about Islam. Some of them were experts on Islamic law. They were well off. Some were even from the upper class, certainly They were not out of work. They were not sort of bored and said, oh, so I gave other examples of that, but I go who also show the same thing, that the terrorists As we shall see later, there were people like Sharia and so on. But I think the decisive argument was given I had a wonderful long quote, but my editor it is as David Wurmser of the American Enterprise too many of the Arab world's problems to 'specific This usually means a tendency to belittle genuine and dismiss it as a cynical exploitation As such, Western observers see material issues Arab world, as the heart of the problem.&quot; Here is an illuminating reply to this kind in an August 24, 1979, speech given in Qom: Our people made the revolution for Islam, Even more conclusive is another lengthy reply, the raison d'etre of the Iranian Revolution. This is [a] direct quote. These are the words of Khomeini, &quot;This movement sixteen years...in which much blood was given, It is our belief that this was all for Islam. I cannot, and no intelligent person can, imagine so that melons would be less expensive, that be less expensive... It is for Islam that a person can give up Our saints also gave up their lives for Islam, That a person would want an economic system situation would be improved! This is not sensible!&quot; In the preface to his translation of a work al-Tabari', whom I perhaps will be quoting echoing Khomeini, summarizes the goals of their Persian adversaries, &quot;Unlike the pre-Islamic possessions or in order to improve their standard Their only objective is to spread the new reply to any kind of socioeconomic explanation, I will not go into all of the things that it is because of the Arab Israeli conflict. I mean it does not make any sense when you Hassan al-Banna founded the Muslim Brotherhood This is before the foundation of Israel in Okay, you might say, well, what about imperialism at the time that Hassan al-Banna founded the Yes, but in fact, the acts of terrorism grew might we be talking about? And then eleven of the of the fifteen terrorists Saudi Arabia was never a colony of the West. It was, in fact, part of the Ottoman Empire known as the Hejaz, so again, it makes no And of course, America was never an imperialist They may have interfered now and then in the power. The Islamic terrorists see the United States but the Americans frequently have taken the East, in the Suez Crisis in 1956 on the side Arafat when he was besieged in Beirut by the the Egyptian Third Army in the 1973 war, supplying aid and supplying military hardware. While bin Laden was angered by the American there only because the Saudis had requested and the Arab League approved. As for non-Arab Muslim states, the U.S. took the Serbs on behalf of Bosnia and Kosovo Muslims, and supported Pakistan despite its collusion it makes no sense to talk about American foreign Okay. I have lots on American aid and so on [and] The Muslim people, in fact, have forgotten The interest in the crusade was relaunched the end of the 19th century. Up to then they really had no knowledge. In any case, they won, they did throw out for violence? Why would it cause Islamic terrorism? It makes no sense. There is a longer discussion on the Crusades It is also strange that or have particularly strong religious beliefs, the devout terrorists as suffering from a rare form of false consciousness, originating status. But as I said earlier, they all tend to downplay part of my argument. But before getting to religion as such, let ideology, in motivating people. I think the 20th century has often been described There is a wonderful analysis by the British Sir Isaiah Berlin. I give a longish quote from him about the from Robert Reilly from his Closing of the Okay, so importance of ideology, and it is now, despite the fall of communism, the fall of course, the fall of the Nazi regime, people in these movements. It is quite extraordinary, so I have a short played a very important part in what happened, exactly took place. Otherwise, it makes no sense at all. I discuss the great work by the great Sovietologist, in Russia at the University of California, He argues for the importance of ideology, a professor of Holocaust studies at the Hebrew the importance of ideas, the ideology in Nazi Although, again, there is always this tendency whether it is the Russians, whether it is to be in the clutch of some inexorable force, They are in the grip of historical forces, is in the stars, it is in history, so in other responsibility. In other words, they are denying free will, for the Islamic terrorists indulging in this It is not as though they are compelled to I have a section on that. And then I an ideology. Not only is it an ideology, it is, in fact, not in a simple, pejorative sense, throwing Not in this book, [but] in another book, you Virgins? What Virgins? And Other Essays, I have a section on Islam Umberto Eco, the novelist and semiotician The New York Review of Books in which he laid be called fascist. It had to fulfill these conditions. And I show one by one in this original article, Virgins? What Virgins?, I show that Islam, in fact, can legitimately call Islam a kind of fascism, to republish that essay that I wrote many But I do go into other people's comments, a scholar called Malise Ruthven. His name is written Ruthven, but in fact, He writes now for The New York Review of Books. He made a very compelling case, and he ends It would be too much. &quot;It would be much too reductive to redefine &quot;as Islamofascism, but the resemblances are This has a long argument, and then he ends of The New York Review of Books, he has gotten He pretends to be shocked when somebody talks I do not know whether this is the dead hand had a real change of heart. Okay, the next thing I have to establish is of religion in the Middle East. This is something as I said we tend to downplay does not play a very important part in their be the same everywhere. It is really condescending, but again, I have &quot;Modern Western man, being unable for the place in religion in his own affairs, found people in any other place could have done explanations of what seemed to him only superficially We find, for example, a great deal of attention to the investigation of such meaningless questions ... We find lengthy explanations by nineteenth- the 'real underlying significance,'&quot; what religious conflicts in Islam among different &quot;To the modern Western mind, it is not conceivable over mere differences of religion; there have &quot;reasons underneath the religious veil.... [T]o admit that an entire civilization can much. Even to suggest such a thing is regarded as to take protective umbrage on behalf of those This is reflected in the recurring inability alike to recognize the importance of religion and in their consequent recourse to the language conservative, and the rest of the Western So, it is central. You cannot do away with it, so where does Well, I show that the answer must lie and the Islamic texts, the scriptures, if you all, which is the actual word of God, the and collected in six canonical collections, called the sira, s-i-r-a, the sira of the If you look at these, and this is what I, and why the various aspects of Islamic Muslim of Islamic terrorism. [There is] the Qur'an, the sunnah, and so I will not go through all of this over again, new to me until recently, so I do recommend Right and Forbidding Wrong in Islamic Thought. It is heavy, heavy stuff, so over 600 pages, it is really one of the most extraordinary Islamic ethics ever written. It is by Michael Cook, but have no fear, I shorter, much more friendly. He has dispensed with all the heavy footnotes. It is just called Forbidding Wrong in Islam, Islam. He has reduced 600 pages to 170 pages, and But you really do need that background from It really is an amazing [book], and the consequences read this, but when I started writing my new Okay, I will try and go through it quickly, much of modern Islamist behavior. Okay, there is one central feature of Islamic of Islam but is of the utmost importance to influential modern Islamic ideologues, whose terrorists, but also have provided the foundation rationale for action. Okay, the principle in case is commanding Here is what Al-Ghazali, a great Muslim to say]. It is one of the few dates I can remember, This is a quote from Al-Ghazali of the 12th setting himself to rights, and then, successively, his town, the surrounding countryside, the and so on to the uttermost ends of earth." This is a duty derived from the Qur'an, by Islamic thinkers for centuries, and it across it until just two years ago when I It is derived from various passages in the For example, surah chapter 3, verse 104 (Q3. al-'Imran), "Let there be one community," and commanding right and forbidding wrong; people who will prosper. And there is another quote, same chapter, al-'Imran 110 ), "You were the best community and forbidding wrong." And then in chapter 9 (Q9. at-Tawba 71), "And the believers, the men they command right, and forbid wrong," and And on this they have built this duty. You have this duty to carry it out. As I said, Islam is not just a passive [religion], R. al-Faruqi put it. This is the late Palestinian American philosopher, I think he influenced, if I am not mistaken, in Washington. al-Faruqi wrote, "Islam teaches not only in this world but that to bring it about here and woman," so there is something within out of the details in the ethics of Islam, interference in people's lives. There is no such thing as minding your own Notions of privacy are totally different in as Michael Cook brilliantly shows. I will give you a personal example. I left Karachi, Pakistan when I was just nine I was sent to England to a boarding school By sheer coincidence, exactly thirty years through. I was working at the time for a French travel East, and we had this deal with Pakistan International Pakistan, so I thought my goodness, I will whom we always called uncle, but he was just Okay, this is exactly thirty years later, The first thing he said to me when he saw children being brought up as good Muslims? He did not say did you have a good trip, are The first thing, you know, he was so worried. It was his duty. I mean I can see the logic. He was so worried about you being in a foreign duties, so this is an example of why this Let me give you [some comments on] privacy This is Michael Cook again on this. Cook explains that Muslim scholars do not of behavior are inherently private and as What is protected is not 'private life' happens not to be public knowledge. It is no business of ours to pry into what stumble upon; but once we know. we are likely to incur some kind of obligation The difference between Muslim thinking and that there is no single Muslim concept corresponding that the Muslim concepts seemed to be of a Similarly, this principle also overrides concerns is no doctrinal rejection of permitting wrong business, so you can see where this leads What happens is if you see the state that in, if the whole country has been led by people Well, it has all been carefully worked out in the book. "There is an inexorable link," this is Forbidding Wrong and rebellion, and therefore of militant Islam's resurgence in the second Islamic fundamentalists fervently believe remains profoundly relevant for all Muslims Thus medieval doctrines of Forbidding Wrong the actions of contemporary Islamists... Cook has provided the essential historical duty of Commanding Right and Forbidding Wrong reform movements." There is a direct historical link right from As I emphasized throughout this book, reform a pristine Islam have existed since the foundation such as the Kharijities in the eighth century, and eleventh centuries, to the Qadizadeli which influenced Muhammad ibn 'Abd al-Wahhab movement named after him in eighteenth-century rise to the Saudi state. I examined the ideas of Ibn al-Wahhab in The other aspect which perhaps you were not of a hereafter, which is derived entirely the Qur'an, the attitude to life and to death. I think a lot of people were shocked. I do not know. In the last 10 to 15 years, we have had over Laden and various other Islamists, who say prefer life. That is derived entirely from the Qur'an In fact, there is a quote that I have from says exactly that, "You," talking to the the Persians, pre-Islamic Persians, the Sassanians, prefer death." Actually, it is the same same phrase a thousand But the contempt for life is over and over written, what Khomeini has written, what Al Sayyid Qutb and so on [wrote]. The Islamic terrorists embrace death with to non-Muslims, morbid and immoral, for it But this disdain for life has been acquired The Qur'an refers to the "Last Day"--al-yawm forty times, but alludes to the "Hereafter" than a hundred times, often to say that the on Earth, and to heap scorn on those who enjoy For example, there is all these quotes from Q2. al-Baqara, the Cow, 86: "Such are those price of the world to come." Q2. al-Baqara, the Cow, 94: Say: "If the abode is indeed for you alone and not for others long for death) if you are truthful." This is the Qur'an I am quoting. Q9. at-Tawba, the Repentance / al-Bara'at, present life, compared with the Hereafter, Q16. an-Nahl, the Bee, 106-7: "Theirs will That is because they have chosen the life Again, this is the Qur'an, chapter 16 in Q87. al-'A'la, the Most High, 16-17: "But Hereafter is better and more lasting." Again, [that was] the Qur'an. I have lots of quotes from the hadith as well, Okay, I end the book with a longish chapter to see how a state, which has applied Islamic theocracy actually operates in real life, You have it there for all to see. It is quite horrendous. I go into some details of the human rights I mean this was again reiterated, re-emphasized David Goldman spoke here a few weeks ago, which I wrote about at much greater length mentioned it here in the present book, The The greatest number of drug addicts are not are found in Iran. The number of sexually transmitted diseases They have this system of so-called temporary You can get married for a few hours, go and on, and then divorce her straight afterwards. This this has led to complete disaster in and so on. You have Islam in action as it were there. In my conclusion you might want to know why if you like, with such ferocity in more recent Well, I think my friend Hugh Fitzgerald said First of all, it is according to my view, view, paradoxically, it was increasing literacy with current conditions in Islamic countries, Before the rise in urbanization and literacy, an Islam accessible only to a clerical elite Now more people have access to their own High They can read Ibn Taymiyya, and recognize fallen away from the true Islam, the pristine But actually, even now, often if when you argument with a Muslim, he will often say original Arabic? This sort of cuts dead the conversation or Nobody speaks classical Arabic, nobody, 99 do not understand the classical, so-called As my friend and colleague Geert once put because it is not even classical Arabic, it I show this in several of my books, what the I will give you all the mistakes from the Qur'an makes, for example. So, even the the ordinary Muslim relies, in what the Qur'an really says. And also, of course, Muslims are not at all I wonder if they even know what language the for that matter. And the other argument you get, of course, say to me, being an apostate, therefore you It is like saying you know you have to be Yeah, so that was number one. Fitzgerald also says that "[t]he doctrine past fifty years. It's been the same, more or less, for 1350 It had fallen into desuetude, but did not, What happened to make things so very different? Well... Since 1973, the Arab and other Muslim dominated from the sale of oil and gas... the greatest The Muslims did nothing to deserve this, though sign of Allah's favor." Saudi Arabia spent millions and millions on and not only that -- unfortunately I do not of my books -- Saudi Arabia has has given and there are strings attached, believe me, Dennis MacEoin was thrown out of a university Saudis did not approve of. And their money has been given to Harvard, and African Studies in London, and so on and They have corrupted with their money the pursuit Second, there has been large-scale immigration former colonies, of Muslims who are implacably why the West became so rich and tolerant, They feel no gratitude or allegiance to their are to fellow Muslims. The mere presence of so many Muslims in the behavior of governments, whose foreign policy own Muslim population, ready to riot on the These unassimilated Muslims are committed they are able to do so by cleverly exploiting infidels. Third, that was third or really the fourth Fourth is the advances in technology, from television to YouTube videos, has meant the believers. By now no Muslim can claim ignorance of his duty of Commanding Right and Forbidding Wrong Theoretically, the West could use the same to broadcast its own propaganda. But the West, lacking confidence in its own considered "allies," has not done so. No Western government dares point out the social, and intellectual failures of Muslim In any case, Muslims only watch channels such own languages, so that is the four reasons jihad. Q&amp;A Audience member: In your survey of ulama and Islamic scholars, of abrogation or naskh (nskh) [hold]? How does that influence, how do Islamic scholars the no compulsion verse? Is it relevant to the ulama today, and is Shia ulama use that concept? Ibn Warraq: There is no coherent, codified development Some scholars will say there are a hundred Others will say 300, so there is absolutely When you think about it, it is a very ingenious some of the contradictions in the Qur'an. You have one passage, supposedly earlier, The other passages in the Qur'an saying As for the question of no compulsion in religion, surah, early chapter, and so it has been abrogated lsyf), which is later, so the Verse tolerant verses, so it does not help them As for the Shiites, they accept the Qur'an this is this feeling that the legitimacy of not fully acknowledged. That is how they treat it. Audience member: Thank you for giving us the true underlying It seems to me that your argument would be the underlying causes instead of polemicizing But it seems to me you are polemicizing against for just routine left-liberal excuse making is a routine boilerplate habit having nothing causes. That seems to me appropriate. You have given the main underlying cause, causes for why this became so strong in that That seems to me a very great organizing principle, You should be using that, I think. It would make you presentation even stronger. And one thing you could do would be to tie under the rubric of Western self withdrawal and mutual geopolitical competition (the Nazis, Arab nationalism and ultimately Islamic nationalism. The question is are you able to integrate And I am suggesting a way to do this. Ibn Warraq: Well, I will take your advice. Audience member: I wonder just how you perceive or view the of ordinary Muslims as compared to the violent Ibn Warraq: Right, this is a question of statistics and I get criticized by both sides by using circumlocutions They say, well, you are fudging the issue. There is no such thing. You mean Islam, do you not? I said yeah, but we have got to have a way out and commit terrorist acts in the Islamic The way I put it once was there may be moderate And also, okay, you can reinterpret some passages is not infinitely elastic either, so you cannot There are supposedly I think 1.6 billion Muslims. Even only a small percentage, what is 1% of 1%. There were more statistics that I have if It depends on how you look at it, you know, thing. Here we are. According to a survey of 600 U.S. Muslims Conway, it revealed that 51% agreed that Muslims governed according to Sharia. Even more alarming, 25 percent of those polled in the United States is justified as a part 75 percent do not think so. Audience member: No, I am still worried. Ibn Warraq: There are worrying statistics. There have been several new polls conducted month, I think. I have not had time to digest them, but there a little bit more worried about Islamic violence but it is not just the violent acts, it is jihad. There is this insistence on introducing Islamic They slip it in. It is very worrying. People are giving in. Why should Muslims have special prayer rooms it is available for everyone? I do not know what the situation is there. It is this Islamic supremacism. Islam must dominate, it cannot take the secondary I remember I was invited to Rome to PISAI, Studies. Then director Maurice Borrmans who ran a wonderful Christian relations, on dialogues, and he I can say this without any fear. But I said let me tell you, what is the point Well, I will tell you what happens, he said, a wonderful religion Islam is, and the Muslims Islam is, so there is no recriprocal gesture. Audience member: I spent a lot of time in Iraq and Afghanistan, banks, so I have a lot of Muslim friends. And I have a question that really is a variant You have made a very convincing case that motivators for most everybody on the face Every young man and women struggles to find What you have not done, which is what I was to why while the vast majority of Muslims is a religion of love, and I am not about dumb, would it not? But what I was hoping to get some insight their particular set of beliefs while most What can we do to strengthen the majority Ibn Warraq: Yes, this is the subject of my next book. No, we have agonized over this for years and should be done about it. Well, how can we help reformist Muslims and This institute has done quite a lot, working I think Katie Gorka got together Muslim reformers, Cold War as a model, how we defeated the Soviet Again, Katie Gorka and others at the Westminster We can learn lessons from that. For example, I think one of the important If you look at the number of works that were of works that were translated from Western staggering. It ran into millions, including pamphlets. There was a Voice of America and so on. If you look at the statistics for translations a report made by the Arab Development Report more in one year then the Islamic countries countries combined together, so if they think in one book, they are not going to read or And then the translation itself is a big problem. Which language? I mean it is no good just saying Arabic as It is a bit technical perhaps, Christmas in There are different vernaculars, so somebody of the average guy, will find it difficult so you have to have different kinds of strategies But then you decide what works should we translate? Well, those works which we think promote our Well, what are our values? Then we have to go into our own belief system. I think for me, all of you may not agree with important things would be to spell out the of state and church. I think if you can bring about secularism, makes religion a private matter. And the other thing is, of course, if we were This is really important because that will can accept, the Islamic countries can accept own religion, already you are establishing we could do. Robert R. Reilly: I am afraid that we are out of time, but thank