I'm Maven Huffman. I was a Here's everything I'm about my time in the WWE. Wrestling was ruined for me as a fan the first days in being in a locker room. The moment you're back there and you see, it's just like -- you I don't want to see how they're made. Same with wrestling. Once you see the ins and outs, once you see behind the curtain, it's just hard to look because you realize it's a show. I don't ever remember I always knew it was entertainment, and I was fine with that. Obviously, we're doing Accidents happen, things can happen while the show is taking place, but for the most part, you hope things go as they are written. A &quot;work&quot; is when two people are putting on a performance that isn't necessarily the truth. When they're playing characters, when they're putting out a product that is fiction. And the contrary to that is a &quot;shoot.&quot; And a shoot is when If you notice, a ref always has an IFB in, and he's getting Now, mostly the ref is there to keep you on time cues. If you're doing a televised match, you might have six minutes and that's six minutes with That's six minutes altogether. And the ref, when you're out there -- the more you wrestle, the more you learn how to have that internal clock. I would work with guys down to 30 seconds how long And the whole time we're out there, the ref is leaning down, I've also worked with refs -- I remember in a Mike Chioda changed the whole match because he had gotten through that they wanted me to because the crowd was, they were coming at me so much. And I wouldn't have known to do that. I wouldn't have done it because I wouldn't have But the fact that it I knew that it was coming from the back. Once you get in the world once you enter that life, nothing about life as you've known it will ever be the same again. Every week, you're going and you're going to be You're going to be renting a car, and you're going to be And what does that mean, by &quot;house shows&quot;? Non-televised shows that And after those shows, you're with someone that you're on the road with, and you're going to be and doing it all over again. And the whole time you're going to be still and you're going to be still and you're going to be having a good time. You want to go out. Young, You're going to want It definitely was an intense schedule. And every month, we would every Sunday. And this was probably, I would say, over 100 guys and girls. The only thing that we on a weekly basis was our airfare. Once we landed in a town, Rental car, food, hotel. you're on the road four or I mean, they'd cost a lot of And you might -- and I've You might make $5,000 a week, but it goes quickly if you're spending $1,800 on your road expenses. And then, once you get home, you've got to make sure you pay Uncle Sam. And you might have a rude if you don't get that taken care of. All the road is, is an extension of who If you are a gambler, to go place bets on the road. If you are into strip clubs, I'm going to find strip clubs where I go when I'm on the road, because also, you don't have You don't have anyone that's probably helping you I know I ran into that problem a lot. When I had a pocketful of money and no one telling me Every group has their groupies. Every group has the all-too-eager female fan base that's there wanting to meet the boys. For wrestlers, they're ring rats. For, I think, comedians, For NASCAR, they're pit lizards. Every group's got them. Anytime anyone thinks that, &quot;Oh, you guys are rock stars. No, we are not rock stars. The ring rats that would not necessarily the ones that are showing up for the It was never quite that easy. I wasn't Ubering sex, you know? I wasn't DoorDashing ring rats. Anyone that ever wonders the benefits of steroids or questions, do they really work? I'll encourage them. of my first promo shot And I can picture it in my And I got on my first cycle, and we were getting I had a doctor who was and who knew exactly what to put me on to get the look that I wanted. Was I going to go out and Absolutely not. I didn't care about that. Was I going to look like a million bucks? You bet your bottom dollar. And there was a period and my second promo shot, I And I look like a completely But I had been on -- my magical mix the whole time I was there was Anavar and Winstrol. For whatever reasons, that stack, for me, it blew me up, and it made me hard, and it made me really lean. And it didn't really matter what I ate. I didn't eat bad at the time, but I could eat whatever I wanted, and I was still going to I'll never say I was I was encouraged by the office, and I had people from the office come up, and I still remember, They said, &quot;Have you looked into some of that creatine the boys are on?&quot; Because at the time, creatine was, you know, it was a big drug for years leading up to that. So it was kind of like a code word. And I remember going and I was like, &quot;This is what they told me. Am I hearing what I think I'm hearing?&quot; And they were like, &quot;Yeah.&quot; And at that point, found a doctor, and it was a doctor a lot of And like I said, we got some And by the term &quot;good stuff,&quot; it just wasn't veterinary But there was never a about failing a drug test. In fact, I failed a couple drug tests and was just told, &quot;Just don't let it get out of control.&quot; Trust me, at 47, I realize you know, that bill's coming due. I've accepted it. But, again, there's I did what I did, I own my baggage, and I'm willing to accept the good and the bad that comes with it. In wrestling, there's a and a after. And I was Chris was one of those and he was just aggressive. And you just knew he was a but if you had his respect, because Chris was going to give you, you know, he was going to But if you're not familiar, Chris, I mean, in, I think it was 2007, I mean, he strangled his son and his wife and then ended his own life. And one of the most and I'm not even going to say that just society had to endure. And for a minute, there's no part of me that that steroids played any role in it. I do believe CTE and head trauma led to his going off the deep end, or at least assisted in it. And, you know, everybody can say that they saw warning signs. Hindsight's always 2020. Once the Chris Benoit incidents happened, a lot of things changed, and a lot of things changed for the good. Anytime you can keep I'm not going to say it's a bad thing. And if you notice, you don't see the amount of wrestler So it was a good change. If teachers made the money I probably would've never left. I loved it. I loved the kids. I loved everything about teaching. And in fact, I was a in my first year, and my second year, I wasn't even going to coach because it took time I really, really enjoyed it. And it was during my that I found out. And one fateful night I heard JR say, and I'll &quot;Have you ever wanted to be a wrestler?&quot; to The World, at the time, WWF New York, and they were going to I'd never been to New York. I'd never stepped foot in the Big Apple. And I was nervous, to say the least, but I knew, why not? Give it a shot. If nothing else, I'll have a good story. Not thinking for a second that I would get picked for the show. I remember they had a big, They would have people and then as soon as you would get done with your calisthenics, they And I had my promo completely memorized. I was going to kill it. My promo was actually And before I started, with my jumping jacks or whatever, there was the Diva, Jacqueline, and I caught eyes with Jackie, and I just threw her a wink, thinking nothing of it, and that shut down the entire panel. They couldn't believe I had the audacity to wink at one of them. And I didn't get to give At that point -- Didn't give any of the promo. I had Taz giving it to me, asking me, &quot;What are you doing?&quot; And I had Jackie smiling. But I still, and I will always believe that is what got me on the show, just because that showed they're not necessarily that you think you are. They're looking for someone And by showing them just that, that small little bit of charisma they knew it was something The first time I saw Vince, he came by Trax, the training facility. We didn't meet him. Didn't get to meet him, We might have shook his hands, but the first time I met him, met him, it was towards the tail They took us to his You want to talk about intimidating, walking at the top and you know you're leading It's just, &quot;How do I end up here?&quot; And I remember distinctly thinking, he's not near as bad or not near as intimidating He was warm, he was inviting, He smiled a lot. Yeah, I mean, things would and once you're making money for Vince, or once you're costing him money. Now, how could you cost him money? If you're taking a slot and you're not getting you don't have these people reacting, if they're on their phone if you're not a draw, if to come watch you do what you do, you're costing Vince money. Because every time he to put on a show, every every time he pays somebody that's money that he in the form of your entertainment. So I found out really quickly, Vince viewed us as commodities. It disappoints me that people believe once they have a certain amount of money or a certain level of power that they can mistreat or abuse and use people. That said, I don't know. I don't know the ins and outs. I don't know what is true. I don't know what was consensual. And I do trust the fact that there is a judicial hopefully will get to the, finally get to some answers. And whatever, you know, I want whatever is coming to come to them. I think we have the iceberg I think we're seeing the tip of it, and the body of it that is still yet to be revealed, I think it's going to be drastic. I think more people are I think more names are and we're probably going to even more difficult facts about the case. Wrestlers' Court is, it to just keep people accountable. I mean, and I've seen usually it's a dumb reason, but the whole time somebody's and actually, they try to During my time, Undertaker was And you're never going to meet anybody in a wrestling locker attached to them or to their brand or to just who they are If somebody finds themselves 99% of the time they're guilty of whatever people said they're guilty of. And they're trying to make a point. They're trying to prove a point to people. They're trying to tell them, &quot;Hey, this happened. Teddy found himself in Wrestlers' Court. This was back when male-enhancement products And Teddy found, you know, found himself with free Viagra. And to help the boys, he but he was charging the boys. So he was making 100% profit off something he was getting for free. And this got out. The boys found out. &quot;Wait a minute, you're charging us and then you're getting it for free?&quot; And it's, again, just fun. Fun way to tell them, yeah, just a fun way to tell them, &quot;Yeah, we're on to you, you're charging us.&quot; Typical penalty was whatever the two guys who were trying the case, whatever they were drinking, just bring a bottle of it, or two. Yeah, typical penalty was just There's two ways to get color. And by getting color, I mean you bleed. There is gigging, and you might make a razor blade. I would always make it and put it in my, I would tape my wrist, I would And then when it was time take the razor blade out is going to have the ref off. And basically, he's taking the action to another side of the ring and making production about, so that right here I could or start bleeding. Second way to get color is the hard way. And that is when you get hit and you're not supposed to get color or you're not supposed to And if you wrestle long Trust me, it will happen. You won't expect to get color, but most of the time when you run with it, because, heck, anytime you So, you know, I remember I and the side of it cut my head. Well, I was trying to to force more blood out at that point. I'm like, I'm bleeding already, might as well try to make I was a bad guy. To this day, I only want But fans are known as marks just because they are the target of who we're trying to put a show on, who we're trying to suspend their belief for that limited time We exploit the marks in several ways, whether it's, I remember and as a heel, I would love and I would see a because I would always And I would look at the or smile at her knowing I would walk away [laughs], just laugh and just giggle. That's how we can exploit the fans. I've been scared before in my life. I've been in sporting events, I've had to speak in front of people, I've been in just high-pressured moments, but nothing compares to how I felt hours before going out for on &quot;SmackDown&quot; against Taz. You know, I mean, it looked like pajamas. I think it was track pants. I think I had, like, Nikes on. At the time, I didn't have wrestling gear, but that was part of the plan. They wanted it to look like, &quot;This is the 'Tough Enough' kid. He hasn't had time to go The moment I got backstage and knew that my match and I had Vince McMahon and I had everybody back there that was what wrestling was at the time standing up and telling me good job, and more importantly I had Taz telling me, &quot;You did a good job,&quot; but at that moment, I knew I In the &quot;Royal Rumble&quot; 2002, I mean, the fact that he was allowing me to eliminate him from the &quot;Royal Rumble.&quot; So, in this rumble, there when I was the only legitimate participant that was still fighting in this rumble. And I'm as green, I am as much of a rookie as you can be. The spot was, he had just finished and he had gotten rid of I come out. He immediately dispatches of me. And at a moment of weakness, I threw and hit a dropkick, was a move I found out I still remember I threw and Al Snow was like, &quot;That's your move.&quot; Just because I could jump To this day, there's not many things that I don't think I could probably redo. I could probably redo if you give me a second chance at it. Not this. This is the one thing that, I wouldn't want to It was perfect. I was actually really kicking him, and his momentum and the way it was perfect. And then him coming up and and surprise on his face, ah, it's, I see why people to this It was a great spot, and that, yeah, I'm thankful that I had. I know I wouldn't have had And I'm still grateful to Mark for giving me the opportunity. He didn't have to. The day that I got the call that my services would no longer be requested, they gave me the reasons why. I wasn't progressing in-ring And I couldn't argue with them. They were 100% right. Do I think I could have gotten I mean, obviously I think I why they were making that decision, heading in that direction. The hardest part about that was, and I remember probably two or three days just not leaving my house. I didn't even go to the gym. And it was because I was I was, you know, for five years, I'd been known as Maven the wrestler. If I went anywhere, anybody was introducing me to anybody, &quot;Oh, yeah, that's Maven, Or somebody would come up and see me, I'd be out in the bar &quot;You're that wrestler.&quot; And just having that identity, I loved being known as that, and knowing that that was not only being taken away from me, but being snatched from me. It was tough to deal with, and it was hard knowing that I was going to have to rebuild In time I would realize I'm always going to be Maven the wrestler. I'll never step foot in doesn't matter. People as Maven the wrestler. But I had to get to the point to where I was OK with not being that guy anymore. Today, I deal with daily headaches. Whether it be my car, whether whether it be my house, whether it be my bag I I have headache medicine with I get headaches every day. And I'm not a doctor, but I realize it was Maybe some unrecorded I wake up every morning, and for the first 10 to 20 I'm hunched over, and it looks like I was in a minor car And that's just life. That's going to be the way I'm going to deal with back and neck pain for the rest of my life. About seven years ago, I moved to a stretching routine that I do every day. And I take a good hour at the end of my day, and I get down on my floor, And I have found that that helps, and that helps just with my back, with my neck, with everything. Oh, my gosh, I had been since my time in the WWE, and I never had a problem getting them. It was funny that I never had to buy an illegal drug ever, you know? I would just go to too many doctors, and anytime I would go to a doctor and show them my list of injuries, they were all too happy to oblige. And I was probably taking, I'd say probably 50 Percocets a day. And then at night using maybe, yeah, I was mixing Somas And I was probably taking three Ambien and maybe three Somas to go to sleep. You know, I wasn't taking it anymore because I wanted to, because it was fun. I was taking it because I needed it. Because in order to get up and live a normal life, I went to rehab before. I went to rehab in 2007, and recognizing the path I was going down, it was just unsuccessful. And when everything happened in 2012, I mean, I just, I lost everything. I lost my house. I tried to keep afloat as long as I could, but the HSN job, that was gone, and, yeah, I moved from and when most people say I really did it. And I I had to start, you know, and, yeah, I had to get myself and it took some time. Oh, I have a weird family structure. And the reason I say weird, my birth mother, and I'm categorizing her as my birth mother. I never knew my birth father. My birth mother passed away She committed suicide in 1978. And not knowing my birth father, that left me almost up in the air. Who was going to take me? Well, my mom's brother and his wife, my aunt and uncle, I don't know if they wanted me, but they were, you know, in line. And the lady that would become my mother, I have pictures of her even when she was my aunt, of her just bathing me, taking me. She always had a love for me. So when the opportunity arose she was quick to step in. And at 2 years old, I have So that's always been mom and dad. Growing up, I was the till all hours of the night. And the only really WWF was &quot;Saturday Night's Main Event,&quot; which would come on, I It would stay on till about 1 o'clock, and then at 1 o'clock, NWA would go from 1 to 2. That was every Saturday The first match I ever went to I was probably 7 or 8 years old. We're looking at 1985-ish. And Ric Flair headlined against Magnum TA in the main event. And probably 17 years later, I would wrestle Ric Flair in Dallas. And I still remember watching and I'm standing in the ring already. And the fact that I went from being that fan that I'm now getting ready to wrestle the guy I went to my first match to watch, it was, I mean, it was surreal. And I still remember the had to come up and whisper in Because I'm literally watching Ric Flair come to the ring. Man, what's even crazier is to see my first wrestling match. I would one day wrestle in that same arena for the Heavyweight Championship So it just goes to show, life Now I work, it's, ah, I love what I do. I work for a company here in the city called Tip Top Capital. We are a capital firm. We help companies that We are kind of a middleman to helping them find to help them keep their doors open. And on the side, I have a that I've had a little bit of success with that I'm having a blast with. I don't know how long that train's going to be on the tracks, but I'm going to ride it I'm glad that my generation because what these guys They've taken it to a step just beyond what even I thought They're so talented now. So I'm glad my time was years ago and the craziest moves you know, a missile dropkick.