you know I was a young boy of nine a normal around and I come from the southern most of people from the West go to Kerala for live in house boats and so on. Well I come Trivandrum and there you know where the part of India. This is the southern most part. We snow In Kerala. Never. So at the age of nine, his house or somewhere on the parapet would look up mountains. Well, there was no comparison. I had never seen, even, I might have seen a few this connection with the snow clad mountains had a quite a remarkable experience I would idea about my past, my past birth, anything of the yoga nothing. Ah what I loved was to play hockey, boys do. uh well I never played Cricket didn't have the backyard of my house I looked straight to the wall and we had a, in the corner, we had a jack fruit is. Ah very close to the fruit which they places it smells very strong uh so there was not necessary that wonderful things happen only tree or a jack fruit tree or a Tamarind tree for that matter. never even thought about a person like that. He was cloth and uh he had on his neck what I later came till then. His hair was tied up with a big bun on the Sadhus' traditionally carry. It's called Kamadalu. I never had kind of water pot. He was tall, very tall. At that age, combined with the fact that I was small ,and he was him later. I just looked up at this tall man and the last row there and I'm sitting here. So he did be to run. Because you don't know who he is. He's I don't know where he came from but I went towards him. And language. Although I was born in Kerala we are at home. So he asked me in Hindi &quot;Do you remember remember anything.&quot; You know, I could have imaged then he put his hand on my head and he said &quot;When said &quot; Samai hone par sab theekh ho jayega.&quot; So I was wondering what is going on. I mean who's this man, who you'll understand'&quot; and then he said &quot;Go back.&quot; So very strange because on the way back to my, the found that I could not turn and look to see if he do it. So I thought this must be quite, magician or So I just continued to walk. I came to the but in our household from morning till evening my mother was frying prawns. The smell. I guy was not there. There was nobody there. But a sceptical guy. I thought we had a short compound wall out that way. Anyway I satisfied myself with that theories about magical appearances and so on. So more. So I went home and and then I tried to tell person I met. I couldn't say a word. I could say but I couldn't say this particular thing that here and this continued till the age of 19. I could it felt like I was choked and I couldn't speak. There are that day I said I had no training in meditation before at about 4:00 in the morning 3- 4, I felt some kind and it was pleasant. It was not a disturbing kind like the lights. In India we have this Festival crackers and so on. There's one thing that goes round and round. was something here going around, but pleasant, not feeling spread to the rest of my body. This was my doing this for many years. I went to school. I went looking out of the window and wondering what the about mathematics. Uh then I finished my college, meeting all kinds of so called spiritual people, really had ochre robes and were sadhus, some were sanyasins. everybody welcomed me I don't know if you know none of the the people I went to, discriminated is something to note. When you really are thirsty for knowledge, it doesn't matter who you are. you came from. Of course there is this big question been answered to date, and about which the Upanishad speaks were some who were weird people who looked like they thought that we were crazy, so and also I met anyone around the area. And then the age I wanted to break free. Uh you must understand that and the only son, and the eldest son, is even more up the business, family business, All that kind of But cages are cages, made of wood or gold or clay or inside. You know from that time, I developed this, I won't in the cage, I felt like opening it and letting it go. People who had So I felt irresistibly that I had to break anybody, not to be imitated by young people, I mind were both fixed on the Himalayas. I had to fend no Google Maps then. So I had to look at all how to get there to the Himalayas. After a great deal of spent all your money, trying to travel in trains young people I finally reached uh the Himalayas. of Rishikesh, and all these places, and then I moved go into complete detail. But then you won't read the bag fully. So I'm joking. So I I kept walking is one of the important centers in the Himalayas, Tibetan border Indo Tibetan border, and there I Maheshwarnath Babaji, and the moment I saw him, I knew. Those was the same person, I met at the age of nine and &quot;Ah you've gone round everywhere and come back to me&quot; I'll be with you forever.&quot; He laughed and said &quot;We'll him, walking different parts of the Himalayas. Some Lovely places, beautiful places, hidden places, open learnt, is by his, uh in those three and But I would say in those 3 and a half years, made. He did the job of an alchemist. He into gold, with the touch stone of knowledge, I learned anything more after that. It's the knowledge, which you learnt then, after that helped me to discover the key, that opens the you need to know and understand something, it. This is the capacity of the mind. Now why is it Why is it that one can't learn things, even if not able to grasp things quickly? Why is it that depressed, sometimes excited, exalted. This is and down all the time. It flows. It's like sometimes, our entire life, on how to always remain happy. get upset. Not knowing this sorrow is a harbinger that Babaji, my master, turned my, transformed my brain, with a surgical, nothing happened. This is only a with a donkey's brain. Actually people say donkey works very hard. It carries loads. Uh you may donkeys, it's music right. So anyway. So this is what want to say, is that if this could have happened to sent me out with, is that, encourage people to get to, you're a special person. No! Everybody is a special person. The And if you're ready to put your attention into you'll figure out what a special person