- Once I remove the battery, I can safely disconnect the cables, and we can get started on - Every iPhone battery is going to expire. That is, it's going to go bad over time for some pretty technical reasons. So a few months ago, I shared that my iPhone 14 Pro's battery had depleted faster than - Joanna Stern actually mentioned that hers is down to 88% capacity. - [Reporter] Wall Street said her iPhone 14 Pro is down to 88%. - And I shared some hidden As of today, as the battery the battery health is at 87%. But what the heck do those numbers mean? Where can you find them? And why did this battery I found the answers to There's no such thing as a lithium ion battery So Apple lets you know just in the software. Go to Settings, Battery, See that maximum capacity? That's a measure of the to when it was new. When I first unboxed this iPhone 14 Pro, it was at 100%. Now, a year later, it's at 87%. Yes, as that number gets lower, the battery doesn't hold a charge as long. Think of it like a shrinking gas tank, and it's when that number gets into the low 80% range According to Apple's website, a normal battery is of its original capacity at when operating under normal conditions. But what's a charge cycle? (upbeat music) Safety first. Obviously, I got a There we go. All right, 500 cycles. One, two. How's this working? Okay, let's pretend this You complete one charge from 100% to 0%. It's basically like the Tour de France. But you don't complete a Say you use 80% of your battery one day, and then recharge it to 100% overnight. If you use 20% the next day, you will have discharged a total of 100%. So yes, it could take multiple That lithium ion battery in your phone is rated for 500 of these cycles. Anyone have a snack? Nearing 400 cycles. Thank you. This is how they do it. 450. And as you get closer to 500 cycles, the more that battery capacity And yes, the battery will And 500. Why is it getting so slow? Why is is it so hard to pedal? How do you find out the on your phone? Well, the new iPhone 15 Go to Settings, General, About, then scroll down to Cycle Count. For other iPhones, you can download this to your Mac. When you plug in your phone, which brings me back to my iPhone 14 Pro. I had hit 494 charge cycles in a year, which makes me seem like which, obviously, I am not, but I don't think I use the phone that much more than my iPhone 12 Pro, which after two years of and 88% battery health. But I had two leading theories about why the 14 expired quicker. Number one, software. Some app or some part of to drain faster. Thus, I was charging it more, It's gonna hurt tomorrow. Number two, heat. I did a previous video on this, but heat is the number - Oh no, it's smoking. It is. So maybe something inside or causing the battery to fail quicker. When I took it to an Apple store, I was told there was no hardware issue. An Apple spokesman pointed me to the company's website, and said that given the cycles, my battery's performance was Okay, so this battery expired quicker, but it will happen to all which brings us to two choices. Buy a new iPhone, or replace your battery, which is gonna be a lot cheaper and better for the environment. So I went to a local New to explore the replacement options. How many battery replacements - Battery replacements are actually one of our most common repairs, especially on Apple devices. I would say we get a even though it's a common misconception that the battery can't be back in the day, we used replace the battery with and that was it. The batteries are actually usually takes about 15 to 20 minutes - [Joanna] But not all battery Joe here offers two options. - So the battery we have here on the left would be the Apple original which we purchase from suppliers that produce them for shops like us. - [Joanna] Those aftermarket to work as well according to Joe, but you will get the following - That basically tells you if your iPhone battery and it tells you to go to Settings to get more information about it. - You can dismiss that initial popup, but it will still show in Settings. Plus, you won't be able to see all that battery health information. An Apple spokesman pointed me to a report citing a study by the UL, saying that in tests, third-party batteries to meet safety standards. Joe says he buys safe, The easiest way to avoid the error message is to get your battery or an Apple-authorized repair shop. And honestly, it might cost about the same to do it there too. Joe said it would cost $89 for the iPhone 14 Pro battery The Apple store quotes $99. Why should I opt to come here? - The Apple's warranty on the batteries. We offer a six-month warranty. We also are able to replace to 20 minutes, versus Apple's lengthy process, sometimes can take an hour, sometimes two or three - So what did we learn here today? Well, if you don't want don't charge your phone. Seriously though, you can keep those charge Relying on low power mode will help too. There's also a new that will stop charging and definitely keep your but you can't live your It's like, I guess we'll preservin' charge cycles. Great. (upbeat music) (Joanna sighs) (Joanna exhales)