You're listening to what So it's Thanksgiving week here And guess what? We have a little bonus Perfect to help at your Thanksgiving Yeah. a conversation that won't lead storming If you've been listening to the show for a while, you know that games And you probably know Everyone comes up If you were in charge of the world, you could do anything, What would it be? What would you change? You make your case votes on it. And if you get enough that change would happen in your hypothetical Well, today, if I ruled the World we got a bunch for ideas from you, and Christiane, Josh Johnson and I. Well, and we decide want to live in It's a fun one. So let's get into it and this is what now with Trevor Noah. So before If I Rule the World yet since it's Thanksgiving I've been thinking a lot about the kinds we have when we gather with friends and loved And a lot of people They'll say, Trevor, what do you do Like, how do you keep it And look, I don't have a perfect but I noticed there was in how some people their Thanksgiving especially over the past and how we would gather back in the day And the biggest one was we started speaking about things Just taking people down you know, like crazy you know, talk about the grandkids and how much and like from their lives and, you know, and then the parents about their first time having because obviously have Thanksgiving but we had family and family dinners where everyone came at a certain And what I noticed is if you start with the fond memories you spend less time that divides people. And it doesn't mean you can't talk about I'm not saying that. But just remember what You're trying to connect with other human beings sharing a meal. It doesn't matter That's fundamentally And so think about the best It's finding a way to connect with another And a lot of the times, our memories are So I don't know, you know, about a funny story from when you were young that maybe Tell them to share embarrassing about you you didn't know about, And then you can from your childhood. Something that you got away with that they would And I don't know. Let's connect and see if we can make a little less and a little bit more about the human connecting around And maybe this will give you some inspiration if I ruled the world with your friends and see if things stay a little more fun And remember Think about crazy. Think just completely In fact, take a listen to me. Christiana and Josh, right And we'll look at that. We're Here are a few I'm going I mean, we're still Reading and reacting. I will read them to you and then we'll Okay. Okay. First suggestion. If I ruled the world, all airplanes would and we'd remove No, I mean, they had me I don't know why with the second one. What, you want the WiFi? I'm like we both. I just started and now you guys want to It's just Wi-Fi, though. Yeah, but if you're in and you board later, that's more time Potentially. If you really think a real champagne Okay, Let all the pause Right. What's the point if you're not treated No, no, You are treated better to an inner Yeah. No, but then you lose No, you don't. Because they save it They save it. The only people are the people They're screwed. The better boy paid more Yeah, they did They did, actually. So you're. No. Absolutely not. And I want You like wife Yes, I'm on TikTok. I'm on Instagram, I'm in the family You know, we need to discuss your yeah. You know, that's the one Gone, gone, gone in ways that you cannot imagine. Why got. No when I'm on a plane, there is nothing that I'm gone. I have like that where I'm just like, You know who I'm like, yes, the girl. Yeah, The woman who made was like I don't get AIDS lol. Just joking. I'm white and then landed in Africa You need to go back and the whole world You're fired Yeah, I live I don't want to know that's happening because I'm on a plane, even if, like, It's none of my I'm on a plane. It's nice Yes, So I agree And that's why I would say, even though I'm not fully I think there are certain movies that I don't even try to watch There's there's got Wait till it comes out And so I think fi on the plane, You wouldn't I wouldn't So I'll go fully. No wife. But then Cristiano voted and now I'm like okay. And board You and Josh. You have to board because the chaos that the way that we do Yes, we're we're late. Every time they have to make up time in the air on the last I've been on because and they said that But then everybody's And they're sitting in all these And so now people because it's the only But then people who who were boarding last because they're Group Z, they're the ones But this should have And now you got to board So I've seen I guess they were like a I don't know you have to be doing, but apparently is not back to front. And it's because if you do back there's also going to be So your problem when you're because now Josh is seat You're 28. But if I get on you still going to the trouble. Yeah. So you'd have to line by this seat, and then you don't have enough space in the So that's why it fails. The real way it is actually it's alternating seats and alternating the plane is supposed like just like left, But like, It's very complicated. It's not So whoever sent that in, thank you very much to the podcast, He has a few more. All bosses are selected by employee that's to lose a company that. That's democracy is. Bad like you can't because this is a thing I'm a pretty likable guy it doesn't mean To shame my. Friends. So it's why everyone might vote They know So now, because I never say no to PTO, I'm and the company We're hemorrhaging. What people should vote What do you mean? That should be radical I you know what Yes, that's. I mean, like every year, you know, when it's like We vote on Yeah. So why, why, why, you know, do. You know what people so well in that office? Why? You know, or why. You have warfare? How many, many true you know, where like, The CEO, you know, like the CEO's salary I'm saying if we're going to be shouldn't be. Who's the boss? You're literally class, war. You are literally when I find out my salary. But why would he unless I Let me tell you people are getting You have created I'm going to vote because I just think I'm voting yes. Voting. Yes. Yeah. Class warfare, baby. Whoever you are, you The worst version of this is the Josh that, a vats of acid, The only thing holding Josh back from this character is that he's, like, a functioning So that's two, Yeah. All right. It's a no. But thank you for listening next person says, I would ban Yes, because it's it's government program where they don't I would rather have than toilet paper. I can see through when I look at it You've in a first world Do you guys know before toilet paper? I watched my ass years of my life. Newspapers Have you ever met of a newspaper No. There's no edges on It's sharp, but. Yes, sharp in your butt. Exactly. Like shop in your butt. Exactly. This is a very You would rather have One ply is your hand. I will. I've used my hand. I've used my hand. First of all, you can't fold What would Because when you were. Yeah, when you when you Yes I'm. This can't make to ply Let me explain something One ply is like flying coach It is the least good way But you are still flying Everything else is walking The way You want to have you wipe your ass before I've intentionally. No, not intentionally Yes, I have had to use intentionally. I have. Josh, I have. Let me tell you Don't ever wish toilet I'm not saying I wash all the toilet paper out I'm just saying Yeah, you'd ban it. Now we have no ply. Okay, I'm ready to vote. Mine is no Christiana. No, but because I think it's I don't know how things work, All right, It's barely real All right. Well, that's the Yes, you're if I ruled, the world But thank you very much for listening We really appreciate We're going to continue right after this All right. Here's another one. If I ruled the world, high schools No earlier than 9 a.m.. That's brilliant. Yes, Teenagers need sleep. Yeah, part of the problem. Yeah, in extracurriculars if some of them weren't extracurriculars. Some of the clubs. Like, for instance, when I was in high It's like trivia I was a virgin. So you did what? I just don't know Quiz bowl is like, Okay, It's like, But for everybody and you go up against And you do Jeopardy! Pretty much. But it's not like off the board. Okay? I'm gonna ask you random questions Yeah, you might know You might not, but If you do, there's our school, and she has Can you ask a question It's all Jeopardy Okay, so it's more Yeah, okay, But it's more specific than general knowledge, And you did this It would be. Maybe I went there Who designs But school starts Yeah. So it's like, I understand that So if you're going to do that's before school. Why? When, why would you guys have extracurriculars Because you, extracurriculars Yeah. You cannot do extra apparently. Imagine doing your restaurant and you're like, extra side of rice We haven't What are you adding The whole point is that you Then this is extra. You can start We're fixing In your scenario, you would just say because that is what Yeah, but you seem What's it like No, in the U.K., little bit of socialism. So there you go. You hang out Yeah. Yes. You know. So. I don't. Know. I this It's also Could, I'd actually say at ten That would be Start school at ten. Yeah. Finish at. Three. That we want proposal. I don't know. I have a different I think you should but do nothing No, but they have to That's the issue. They need to sleep need to grow. Ridiculous. 12 to 14 hours. 12 Teenagers, your brains, Like it's. It's insane. They need to have done where they're like That's why because they don't And then we try and then at least I'm just talking about we try to teach them Then we give them a test And then we're like, moving on to the next, And they have to go home Yeah. So like, do that Okay, okay, I'll, I'll vote then This seems Yes, yes, yes. Congratulations. You have achieved If you ruled the world, would start This person to rule the world and they just moved it I mean, use of power, But thank you for listening to the podcast. The next if I ruled the world, no matter their job, has to shadow one day a month. What is a service They wait I was making sure. No, listen. No, for me. What do we. What are we defined I think. Shadow means like, I thought Shadow meant just watching someone My shadows never helped Yeah, you just. I want to. Having you I want to shadow you Don't But the way that When I was working at, Was to do a mini Josh, into saying maybe. I don't think So maybe we should vote. I really think that's Maybe we should I think you just, like, see Yeah, well, what is the I don't think empathy for, like, But if anything, job up close, you always Yeah, like Yeah, I do that. Yeah, That's because then they would You see how hard it is. So I thought Because you know, has a shadow Like I thought Just some of them No, it's a touch No, I see that I see what I'm ready to vote Then I say, No. No. No. There's a No, I guess not. Now, knowing what the understood It's a no. Yeah. I thought, thank you but you will be shadowing Well, All right. from the people If I ruled the world, all toilet stalls should be completely soundproof. We don't need to hear what's going on Okay, This one I'm really going to tell you For me, of going You like to listen? I don't like to listen, but that's it's like a horror I don't like horror but if I took out then it wouldn't a public toilet There's You know, to I mean, It would be creepy. Imagine going into a public toilet Want That is creepy. I here's the thing. I'm going to vote no with you, but for Like I feel like and I'd rather. Okay. You misunderstanding me, No one loves the sounds, but the sounds of part I don't want I don't even want to I mean, when I'm in there. So when you went in, Yeah, that's the point. But the sound, I would to be left up because and there was yeah, we know he fell I fell right. Inside one of the. And if it had been No one Yeah, Okay. Have you ever used and needed toilet paper and asked And I've done that once, That happened to me But that happened once. And I was like, Amen, And then I had to and then someone Over the stool. Yeah. No, no. I got mine rolled to me. They rolled it So you wipe your ass No, it has more. It's unrolling It travels You left the part of it So basically in a restaurant that was our toilet and I had to wait And so then I was like, And the person was like, And then they left and They didn't have me. Wow. And eventually came in. I was like, Hey, I need toilet paper. And they were like, Ooh, And then they left and I was worried But when they came back, they had the big Yeah, that big roll that you installed Yeah. Yeah. And he bowled and it was a I like this. All right. To meet the person You remember on that you get to meet who saved your life. So did you get to meet Did you like them and take a picture No, because I started that he left because because while I was thinking of. And I think that was All right, All toilet stalls should be completely Mine is a definite no. Yeah, I've changed. I'm changing in ladies toilet. I don't know if you know but when I used the club before my life was over you just. You see, it's Gossip also known You know, So, like, when on the toilet you just hear You even know See how you see this? I mean. This is yet that'll make people It will make And do you know how nice it is to sit in a stall, go through something and know is going Well, I like the person because they're about that you see. This is what I mean. This is now you understanding You were so against me in the beginning The sounds make this I vote no. No. Toilet stalls should not be completely No. Well, there you go. That is a flat out No. We'll be hearing Whoever you are. But thank you so much for listening So the only thing that got passed high schools will start So we'll see you at 901. Our listeners are really paper in the bowels of life. It's actually to change the world. Look at all It's really That people Well, there it Listener addition. Thank you, every single one of you for your wonderful Even though we shut down But I mean, that's the nature And guess what? We want to hear So we have a what now? Email address. It's At day what nowadays zero Get in touch with any comments about the show, suggestions or guests and more of your If I rule I promise we won't By the way. So, Let's, let's, Tell us your name and where you're and better yet, recorded as a voice memo so we can play it That's what now a day Scum has reached We'll be back next week In the meantime, from everyone we wish you a happy May all your plane and all your toilet What Now is produced in partnership with Day The show is executive Noah, Seema Yasmin and Jodi our senior producer is Claire Slaughter Music Mixing and Mastering Thank you so much Join me next Thursday of What Now?