- Hey guys, Toby Mathis here, and today we're going to that the rich use and maybe Let's dive in. Number one, and I'm just going I'm a tax attorney, so I'm really do understand tax planning. And they don't understand of, &quot;Ha ha, I'm going to find Is that they understand to fear from the tax code. In fact tax code is absolutely and incentives that are For example, I'm going where we don't have to pay tax on. Why? Because they need to incentivize certain investments into certain areas. I'm going to go over different things where you do get tax breaks and why, because they incentivize certain behavior, certain types of activity. The rich understand this 'cause they also understand the numbers. So for example, there's what's Records Access Clearinghouse, at Syracuse University. They actually had to sue under the Freedom of Information Act to get the information from the treasury. But what they found is that significantly more than the rest of us. But overall it's about which is less than one half of a percent, which is just crazy. The poor, if you have that for example, 12.3 audits per 1,000. Significantly higher than that 4.1. And everyone else, when is at 2.3 audits per 1,000 returns. Like, less than a quarter percent. So, are you scared? I have less than a quarter And, what's more importantly, is we don't worry about audits. A, you don't see them what you're doing. Like again, a taxpayer very, very unlikely. Like less than it is right It's just a fraction of You get over a million, you might start seeing But again, there's only of millionaires in the And that's down from 40,000, Like it's really gone down. So, there's not a lot to fear. Why not? Because we have enough we can make sure we're Gone are the days where and hoped that they read Now, between AI, and Google, and YouTube, like spend some time on my channel, you're going to learn all the to lower your taxes, and So let's dive in. We got 10 of these suckers. Let's go in number one. I'm going to write these down. Number one is retirement savings. I'm just going to call Did I screw that up? Yeah, I probably did. But whatever. Retirement contributions. So this is where the rich understand that I can get a tax into certain types of plans. Now I'm not just talking about and you're like, okay, that's great. That's going to get me tens No, the rich understand where they can put substantially more. And what type of retirement Defined benefit plans. Clients are putting half into some of these plans. And what you're doing there who's licensed with the and say, &quot;Hey, if you're used how much retirement so that you can continue to when you retire? Well guess what? It's going is going to have to be What if you only have 10 years to do it? Oh wow, I could put in $300,000 a year? Yes, even more. It all depends on your scenario, how old you are, and what type So the rich understand that and are available to be used. And I would suggest that you and make sure that you're using And again, there's different categories. A lot of us are used to what's called an individual retirement I think see an IRA, individual is actually what it means. And we're not so well versed It's like the solo 401ks, those types of things. And I would encourage who actually understands those things and to get familiar with 'em because there are huge benefits. Yes, I could be making in a then it flows under my I'm losing 6,000 a year. It's draining away. But what if I put that entire $20,000 into a tax deferred account? Not only am I saving the 6,000, but my growth will be tax deferred, and eventually, if I'm there's a way to avoid in retirement, if you understand taxes. And again, I'm not going to I'm just going to say short-term rental, real estate professional, there's all vehicles so that you don't have to pay tax on it, but there's ways to get But the rich understand They also understand taking And what do I mean by I'm going to use the example Let's say that I invest in Microsoft. And I was one of the first and Microsoft's gone up and it's split, and doubled, and tripled, Like my investment's gone up huge. Or better yet, I'm going to talk Let's say you bought Bitcoin and you bought Bitcoin It's now worth what, 70,000? Did you pay tax on the No, that's because it's tax deferred until I do something to it. So I either sell my Microsoft shares or I sell my Bitcoin, The rich understand to access the capital And here's how. Borrow against it. So if you have a bunch of and you have it in a you can get what's called a which means the brokerage against those stocks as security and loan proceeds are not taxable. So there used to be an old they'd say buy, borrow, die. And why would they do it in that order? Because when you buy something, well, depending if like if it's real estate, I could actually get a tax deduction, I could get the depreciation. If it stocks, I'm probably not. But I'm still, if I'm maybe I'm buying super a bunch of seeds and some then I borrow against it. Think of Elon Musk borrowing And then when I die, a step up in basis, which or better yet, my heirs on any of that gain. It's actually gone, my basis steps up. So if I have $10 million of Microsoft that I paid $400,000 for, better yet, let's just say Let's say I spent 10,000 bucks and now it's worth $10 million, I've been sitting on it my whole life. For 50, 60 years I've been And I pass away. My new basis is not the whatever My new basis is the 10 million. Yeah, and I'm not joking about that. You pay zero tax. Like, your So, the rich understand this and make sure that they are So it's again, I can during my lifetime, and maybe I don't. I pass, no tax when I sell and I paid zero tax at any of that gain. None. Nada. Zero. Rich, understand this, you should too. Number three, they understand something called loss harvesting. This is something that President at a national level when &quot;How did he not pay taxes?&quot; You know, first off, they his returns out there. That was a breach by an IRS employee who ended up going to jail. But they did it to a whole bunch of folks. They did it to Elon Musk, Warren But that President Trump, whoa, there's these huge tax and we're able to harvest There's another way to harvest losses, which is when you have, and it goes down. I bought Bitcoin at 60 and I and it dropped to 30. I could literally sell there's a $30,000 loss, I bought but I immediately buy it back at 30. And as of the recording date here, there's nothing wrong with that. I could actually do that. There's no wash sale loss rule. There is a wash sale loss rule on stocks that say you got to wait There's a workaround on that as well. The rich know this. You can harvest the loss I can harvest the loss by if I have a down market And I can use those losses An example. I have Microsoft and I'm up $100,000. I'm going to sell it and I need to... I want to sell it and exit I'm going to have $100,000 worth of gain. On the same token, I that has fluctuated and and I have $100,000 of unrealized loss. So I could just go ahead realize the $100,000 and use that loss to Now I could do this on a In fact, there are funds private investment funds, where to offset your other gain and But they are very, very when they are experiencing which happens in the market all the time. The market's always doing this. If you get used to, &quot;Hey, reenter the marketplace, I still get to grab that loss, then it goes down at I could do it again, right? So I am using my losses against my gains. There's other things For example, in passive I might go ahead and and create loss, like President Trump to accelerate in bonus He was able to carry it back tax rules and offset a bunch We had the same thing during where we were able to carry back some loss and we're getting tax dollars back. So I'm just going to call Some of you guys that are losing your minds already. Trust me on crypto, it's Even on stocks, there's a workaround. It's buying a in the money and then buying the shares back, and then selling the option later. You can actually do that and the loss attaches to that option. But I have videos on that one, too. But loss harvesting. Now I mentioned four And that is real estate. And here's what's important. In real estate, if I buy land, I don't get big huge tax benefits. If I buy land, I don't other than maybe the property But if I build, if I buy real I buy a rental property, a commercial, a warehouse, a Like if I buy the park with the pads and stuff like that, that real estate, those improvements can be depreciated and depreciation equals deduction. Now here's where the rich and the poor really separate themselves. A lot of folks are under the impression that you write off real if it's residential, 39 years That is a good starting point, and that's kind of a But it's actually not You're not supposed to be doing that. What you're supposed to be of your real estate and breaking them down into their useful lives. So the IRS will let you, for example, write off a single family But you could break it into like the carpeting and removable The appliances, some of the and things like that Like think about having a washing machine or a dishwasher, things like that. The platform for it, the the plumbing that was brought there, the electrical that was brought there. Anything that's attached to an appliance technically takes its lifespan. So all that plumbing and all that electric is actually five year property. I go and I look at a fence, Those are land improvements. That's 15 year property. Window treatments, all these than 27 1/2 years and you could And there's quite often something which means I don't even I might get to write it off immediately. Sometimes it's 100%. It all depends. Every year Congress is talking about as I'm standing here today 60%. But I get to write things And I get to create loss. And if I create loss, then I can use that to offset my other tax. So if I'm a doctor, for example, and I'm making half a million dollars, and I can create a real against that income, it's Let's say I make $100,000 or 35% depending on what I get a big benefit by using those losses. I have some hoops to jump through. I might have to be a so either myself or spouse I'm going to have to Or I could do short term rentals. Or I could invest in things like oil and gas and stuff like that. I could be investing in But there's really not much better from a tax standpoint than real estate. Literally I could be and not having to pay tax on it. So if I have a single family home and it's making net 1,000 bucks a month, but it's depreciated so I have 1,000 bucks positive but from a tax standpoint I have a zero because I'm using the for the depreciation against then I pay zero tax on that. So I have $12,000 a year That is a very effective. Now add some zeros to that, and that's what the rich So it's always kind of fun when you start digging into these. And so I always say like good, better. Good is, hey plain old vanilla Better is cost seg the property, start writing things Best, real estate professional where you can write off And then the insane is I could sell it, do And don't worry, I have 1031 videos if you want to learn about that. If I sell real estate and it doesn't have to be 1 to 1 it could be I sell 1 and As long as I'm buying real estate and I'm following the rules, it's under 1031 of the tax code, I'm using a qualified intermediary, I don't have to pay a or recapture on the depreciation. All I have to do is 1031 my real estate throughout my lifetime and 'Cause remember that step up in basis? It works on real estate, too. So again, I could be buying It could be going up in spend that money on more real estate, or going on vacations or whatnot. All I have to do is eventually pass away, and voila, zero tax. Rich people understand that. You should too. All right, number five, charities. 501c3s. Big old deduction. You can write off up to 60% by writing a check to a charity. Why not your charity? Why not using charities in your life? There's a lot of things that you could do with the charity that And I use the example of IKEA. It's a charity. Rolex owned by a charity. Hershey's, mostly Milton These things are worth Harvard. Charity. These are all exempt NFL was a charity and Major league baseball, still a charity. NHL, still a charity, right? There's lots of things that you could do that are charitable activities. For example, in your real estate, if you want to write off a house You buy a rental property, you depreciate it over 27 1/2 years go by and you're the heck out of it, but it's worth a lot.&quot; Give it to your charity income housing or maybe you single moms, recovery housing, whatever. You make it into something And by the way, low to low to moderate income housing There's a safe harbor for it. So if you're doing HUD and you're just saying, &quot;Hey, I want to take care My elders, again veterans, moms, whatever, fill in the blank, I could make it into Now when I give that house, of that house is a charitable donation. I'm not kidding you. You could literally So I buy a single family house 20 years, I depreciated most of it. I bought it for, let's I'll give you a real life example. I just paid $90,000 When I donated it it's value was 315,000. What was my tax deduction that year? 315,000. I was in the highest tax bracket. My tax savings was over $120,000. I only paid 90 for the thing. My tax savings were more That's using charities. So that you could do things like that. You could use something like where your charity is the end beneficiary, so that if I sell and I could spread that Maybe you're doing a and you're going to spread Great. Rich people understand this. They understand that there's real rules, and if they follow it, Now there's huge advantages to doing it. So I'm going to say again, hey, just make a charitable That's good. Give it to your church, Just be a good person. I actually say you should give 10% of your of your income away every year. I'm one of those weird people, right? I'm not going to tell you I'm just going to say do Most of my successful clients give. Like, the vast majority Why do they give? Because it's good. It makes you feel better. And because you get a Better, use a donor-advised fund. And instead of giving $5,000 every year, give $20,000 every four years, put it in a donor-advised fund and then use it to give the Why do you do that? Because most of us miss out because the standard deduction So our standard deduction's 14,000, 28,000 if you're married, that you don't get to write off and you get no benefit for So instead give, we call it getting lumpy, give larger amounts more seldom, but use a donor-advised fund. A donor-advised fund is an investment account But you get the charitable deduction when you fund that account. And then you could still trade in it, you could still invest in it and then you use that to give Best. Hey, own your own charity, set up your own 501c3 and do that. And then the insane one is and CRATs and these other vehicles. But realistically just accustomed to the idea that You could be working for your charity. Your family could be working, There's lots of different versions. A lot of people think and they have to give Yeah, but there's other versions where you don't have to do that. And especially if you're feed, help, educate, amateur sports, all those are charitable activities and you don't have to give away money. Now that takes us into our sixth one, which is trusts. And no, I'm not going to sit here and tell you trusts That's nuts. I've done whole videos on the scams that are out there teaching this nonsense. No, what trusts are really good at is, if I use an irrevocable then I can get some tax benefit by avoiding the estate tax on transfers if my estate gets too big. if I want to freeze I can make a sale to a irrevocable trust with the third party trustee And I could avoid nasty estate tax, which is about 40% on amounts right now. I think we're over, what is it? It's more than $10 million a year. I think it's like 13 double that up, 28 million for married couples. Like it's a huge amount. But it's scheduled to go back The Tax Cut and Jobs Act jacked it way up. Before that it was $5 million per spouse. And it's going to go back down So my guess is probably So if you're estate's over 14 million, anything over that, it's going to be 40%. It's a pretty big hit. And so these trusts allow us certain benefits during our lifetime. We could also use trusts in the form of charitable remainder trust, charitable remainder annuity where we can get benefit as well. But the rich understand and they talk to people and There's spousal lifetime access trust. There's SLATs, there's all these things. GRATs, grantor retained annuity trust. There's all sorts of vehicles how to use, and you just need and start asking the question. As you start building up your wealth, you want to be cognizant of it. Now, the most obvious trust that's going to save it's almost impossible not to save money if you have any assets at And they're very simple to set up. They're freely revocable But what it's going to do is it's and your family from fighting by keeping out of court And there's other benefits to it. We used to use AB all sorts of things to to make sure you don't disinherit All sorts of other benefits. Rich understand that and they talk to people who to make sure that they're Number seven. They understand the power of businesses. They own businesses. Almost all the wealthy people I know have some sort of structure. It's either a family office, it's a series of LLCs that Safe assets, they're keeping they're taking the bullseye off themselves and they're making sure that simply by something that Like maybe a kid gets into a car accident and they've severely harmed somebody. I'll give you real life situation. My partner's friends, their child went to Arizona University, University of Arizona and They didn't mean to, but that individual turned into a quadriplegic and The parents had to go bankrupt because they're still responsible The rich understand that But the rich also understand that businesses provide major tax breaks. For example, if I am engaging as an individual, and a of these like they're borderline hobbies. Hey, but I have a profit motive, but I really enjoy doing it. The rich understand that that And they're not scared. They're not worried about hobby loss rules and these types of things how it works and the ways to And they run their businesses in a way where they can get tax free benefits. I can reimburse 100% percent and vision for example, out of a C-corp. I could avoid a ton of employment They understand that an They understand that an accountable plan where of my home that I can't do but by being an employee There's all sorts of benefits and I'm just going to If you're asking for a beating by the way, like if you want to be a business be a sole proprietor, please. 70% of the businesses out And I'm always shaking my we had of any stats on their audit rates, which is tough to get the but the last year, I think it was 2019, they were 800% more likely to be audited as a sole proprietor making 100 grand than you were as the It was crazy. Or as a C-corp. And here's the problem They lose. Nobody follows the rules 'cause some knucklehead says, &quot;Oh, they have less formalities.&quot; No, they don't. From a tax standpoint, it's identical to an S-corp or a C-corp. The only thing you're getting proprietor is instead of you're putting a Schedule And you're saying, by the way, and personal use of all and my car and everything else. No you're not. They lose 95% of the time in audits. 94 to 95. I'll make it clear they do a little better. They only lose 94% of the time. They lose 94 to 95% of the and they are audited significantly more than any other business structure. So, if you love getting be that sole proprietor, otherwise don't. Like, I'm saying that with If you are making very little money, that sole proprietor may be worth it. But any real business, no, Make sure that you're What's better? Hey, if I'm running a business income, I probably want to be myself significant amount The reason being is if 100% of my net income is subject They call it the self-employment taxes. Old age and disability That's 12.4% and 2.9% for Medicare. You get hit on that. So it's 15.3%. You making 100 grand, there's a partial deduction, so it's actually $14,100 on 100 grand. And I could avoid about 70% of that. I could avoid close to just by being an S-corp. So, that's better. I'll say that there's good. Better would probably be if you're a high income person, understanding that a C-corp and by the way, that does not expire when the Tax Cut and Jobs Act That's going on per infinity. The best is usually a combination. So like, if I have real estate, I'll probably have that in an LLC. If I have my trading account, or a limited partnership. And I'm going to have it that is going to be my business of benefits out of that. Number eight. This is going to trip Tax free bonds. Tax free bonds. Muni bonds. I get 5% but I don't I get 6% but I don't I get 4%. I don't have to pay tax on it. The rich understand that this might be wise. Those tax free bonds, if then it's not going to push When I get social security benefits, it's not going to push me It's a nice way to have an income stream without the worries of taxes. Now, I have taxes free muni bonds. Some people say like, Why are you doing that?&quot; It's all about allocation of risk and it's about being intelligent. If I have money coming in, &quot;What's the tax hit on that money?&quot; If I have real estate, But if I have other income, if I have other active of businesses that kick down I don't want to be sitting here at 37% just getting slaughtered by the I don't want that. If you're in New York or California, you could be looking at a 50% tax rate. So these guys may come in and you say, &quot;You know what, I don't need to make 7%. If I can make 5% tax free, I'm making more money and So it absolutely plays a spot I know that as a fact of different financial advisors, and it's kind of that weird wants to admit, &quot;Hey, do you Why don't you haul in Tesla?&quot; Right? No, there's a mix. And most of the wealthy I know do have those types of tax free muni bonds. And there's no reason, they're exempt. We don't have to worry about taxes. So I'm going to do that, I'll take that action all day long. Yes, they're very, very secure. Yes, they don't pay tax. So you should say, &quot;Yes, it probably has a Even though you might be Mr. it still has a place for you. Number nine. Life insurance. Not just any life insurance. The rich understand that you with cash value and access that cash value absolutely tax free. How do you do it? Index universal life. Some whole life. I'm going to say this, though. They understand that you can and access the death benefit under certain circumstances tax free. Now, here's why they do it. Because the insurance So not only do I have cash but my benefit, my death So a lot of wealthy use life insurance so that they don't have to They're really setting it up so that they're looking at it saying, my estate, if it's worth 50 million bucks, I'm going to have a taxable estate. I know that there's a portion of it, maybe I'll be able to or whatever the number is. Maybe I'll be able to avoid it. But now that leaves me with 22 million that's going to be taxed at 40%, plus my state, I could be higher than 40%. I could be looking at 50% tax. Maybe 45, but let's just call it 40. So I have $22 million at 40%. So that's eight point... So, let me get some life insurance so I'm liquid so that my family doesn't have to sell a You might not be thinking much of this, but I recall estates that during 2008 where the value versus when they were you had reductions in of 40, 50, 60%. In some cases you couldn't You still had to pay the tax. So the life insurance creates liquidity. The rich understand this. The other thing they What if I need capital? It's nice to have a cash value if you understand how these things work. There's the infinite banking All these guys are using it as a ploy to sell you crappy policies. Make sure you have a And I'm not saying they're all bad. I love the concept, but some of them are built to make a crud ton of money. Others are built to make you money. And then there's guys like Dave Ramsey who just hates 'em period. But then lots of his So there's no way around it, right? They have this tax-free advantage and you can borrow against it and reinvest that money into other things. So I could borrow, for and it might be a wash loan. Like hey, I make nothing on but I don't have to pay interest. I was making 5 or 6%. Okay, Or you just borrow it Maybe it's 5%. Okay, so I have a 5% loan, I go out there and I'm making 10%. I make the spread. Great. Do I have to pay it back? No. All I have to do is die, right? Eventually it's going to get or it's just going to take the Again, depending on the policy. Some policies you forfeit your cash value depending on the policy, how So you're using it, the death And others they don't. It all depends on who you're working with and how they're writing that policy. So I'd be making sure who's a good, probably a fiduciary. I tend to say that. I like people that are CFPs so they have to put your because the commissions can be pretty high on these things, guys. But they're using life insurance. There's the Rockefellers, as the example of how they And it's by using life insurance on various individuals in their family. They always buy it, and there's big chunk of cash that All those are concepts. I can tell you, as and who actually has these policies, the reason that most 'cause they get access If they don't, they won't. But if they do, they don't getting smashed with taxes. Like if I have to access I might get penalties and It's going to cause all my money It sucks, right? If I use a life insurance product, and let's say that I have I could access my cash value. In some cases I could All of it is tax free. I got that money, I didn't pay tax on it. I pass away, the payback, I don't have to pay tax on that as well. So those life insurance are really great. So number one, I would say that you have tax free That's a huge one. The tax free proceeds when you pass. And then you can always borrow against it during your lifetime, not And all you have to do is pass away. Number 10. I'm going to call this Hopefully you guys can read that. Tax-efficient funds. What I'm talking about here is investments that create tax benefits for me. And the main one that I talk and over again, there's real that could create some tax loss for you depending on your situation. But the one that works that absolutely can offset Doing a working interest in oil and gas. Those are absolutely effective. They're crazy good. And so I would say that the number one that I see people using when a year and they're in the highest bracket. And they're saying, &quot;Jiminy and get some of that money back. I don't want to pay tax on 600,000. Could I pay tax on 500,000? It's going to save me Maybe it's going to save me 50 grand.&quot; Yeah, put it in oil and gas. And you like a $100,000 in oil and gas. You might get a 70, $80,000 deduction. Put a couple $100,000 in That's a tax-efficient fund. Another type of tax efficient fund is, let's say you're in the Rich people end up in &quot;Man, I don't want that income hitting me at that at my ordinary bracket. What other choices are there?&quot; Well, there's long-term capital gains, short-term capital gains, So you got to get long-term. And there's dividends. Qualified dividends or capital gain rate. Well what's that rate? Depending on your You make less than 90 grand 15% on just about everything else. And if you're in the highest Now you do have the Obama era NIIT, the net investment income So technically it's 23.8%. That's a lot better than 37%, right? So if I invest in things that I may want to do that. So I have a friend, Kevin Simpson, who does a really great job, that does a ETF called TIVO, T-I-V-O. And what are they doing? Covered calls, so there's a But they're also focusing on dividends. You could do funds like that, and say, hey, I want dividend kings, I want dividend aristocrats, I want dividend producing companies. And when they gimme that dividend, I know I'm paying tax on it at the long-term capital gain rate, which is way better The wealthy understand called bracketology, right? We're not talking about We're talking about and that tax bracket has a big effect on your net return on your investments. And so the wealthy understand, whoa, there are these tax-efficient funds that can make a huge difference. And they use all 10. I just gave you 10. Hey, if you like this type go into the comments and let you've heard of before, Which one's the most interesting to you. Just so I know, 'cause into ones that you guys Let me know in the comments. Number two, if you like and share it with somebody. It makes a huge difference and it spreads it out there. And as far as I'm concerned, to as many people as humanly possible so they're making intelligent choices. I'm telling you what the rich do. There's no reason we can't do it too.