- Modern rocketry was So it's no surprise that Europe has done some operating some world-class missions and building some of the However, to date, the only real player in to hail from Europe has been Arianespace, a fairly traditional aerospace company. But that's all about to change. There's a resurgence of new of Europe's next launch providers. And as exciting as it is, how are these new with not only the traditional but also the extremely competitive from all around the world? So today we're going to talk here in Europe, Rocket Factory Augsburg, or RFA, who as the name implies Hales And we'll also visit ISAR Germany as well. We're going to try and what are they doing different? How are they building these rockets? What's unique about their systems? Where are they going to launch them, and how are they gonna And we're going to see how are they going to fit in this competitive - 3, 2, 1. - Okay. This video is going Since we had the opportunity Augsburg and ISAR Aerospace, to compare them to see how they're similar and Come to find out, we couldn't that are taking on the and operating a rocket more So what we'll do is we're gonna go back and forth between these and contrast their rockets, their designs, and their philosophies. But first, here's a quick so you know what we're RFA is building a rocket called RFA one. RFA one stands 30 meters Built out of cost-effective The booster has nine Helix engines that are oxygen rich stage and liquid oxygen, otherwise known as kerolox of thrust each. The second stage has a single and has a small orbital transfer vehicle as a third stage two called Redshift. The rocket is capable of an to sun synchronous orbit and will launch from the Scotland's Shetland Islands. ISAR is building a rocket called Spectrum, which is 28 meters tall and two meters wide, built out of lightweight fully The booster has nine Aquila engines that are open cycle and liquid propane or Propolox which I don't but it is now. And the second stage has a engine spectrum is capable of And will launch from the Andoya as the Guiana Space And just for a quick side how these rockets compare to Firefly's Alpha from the United States. They're all quite large and we'll be competing Now we don't necISARily for a lot of these rockets, good dollar to kilogram ratio or anything. But one thing we do know is agencies and companies who will be happy to fly on a European rocket. I should also mention quick of other launchers from to launching as well. But we'll just be focusing Now let me introduce you to Dr. Stefan Brieschenk from RFA, who will take me somewhere before inside a rocket. - Okay, are you good? That First interview from inside of a rocket. Oh, this is crazy. That - Is this. Yeah, the, the really cool that you won't see any This is all a sheet metal construction. This entire stage is based on sheet metal. We don't have these typical white between the dome and the cylinder. They are very large CNC that really drive up And this is really a stage that So it's super, super low cost. - And so how do you guys everything and, and how did and how did you make, how do 'cause it's like one little and I just, it seems very overwhelming. - What we basically did in kind of artificial intelligence. We basically coupled three optimizers, the first optimizer like the best way, how to with the least amount of fuel. Then we have a second optimizer of that and decide on all that basically it's a, it's a the wall thickness has to be this and that if the loads, and fluxes are this from the trajectory. And then very cool, we have a third tool, and this is our most important where the optimizer can after you signed something, how expensive is it? And the database says, look, it will be this cost. And that's really key because optimizer, look what is the And that's when this against to what we wanted. I did not want to have a stainless tank that looks cheap, right? I wanted to identify beautiful composite stage, right? But we had no way of getting out of there because the cost of this construction, this is a very special kind because it's super low cost. A first stage costs less And we couldn't get out of this. The optimizer basically found large cost database where - Like, like a beer tank It's basically, it's very specific because it's a, it's a tank that is made with a wall thickness between For me personally, I wanted beautiful composite stage. It hurt me personally when to really hate always chose the stainless steel construction. But the difference is very simplest. A composite stage like million US dollars. And a stainless steel construction of this type is 10 times cheaper. And this is something you can't take out of the equation anymore, right? The optimizer always runs and I can't ignore it. And it's quite interesting, if you look at this in you realize traditional rockets are built extremely accurately. Good example, Ariane 5, Ariane 6 features a 5.4 meters diameter. And the centricity we are two meters in diameter and we only require So orders of magnitudes, [Wow] Worse. The reason why that was because it didn't have flying into space. And that's why they basically as cylindrically as possible to make sure that the disturbances Oh wow. Through the atmosphere And this is one of the game GPS or Galileo in Europe and now the rocket can be inaccurate fashion, right? Almost like a little banana shape. It'll just compensate for it. It'll just compensate for That's, this is a good example how humans have put up a system in space, which actually allows us now getting two space cheaper. Cheaper and easy, more efficient. And oh wow, we fully use that. If you read through a lot of launch vehicle, they very tight accuracy And it's actually quite But we went through all that were really, we cut out everything that didn't make sense. And this is a very cylindrical But in reality it's a, it's a design that is based on sheet metal only and this keeps the cost down and therefore makes it really Wow. What you see here is very cool. These are all the flow form domes and one of the key embrace this sheet metal construction. We basically have to make sure that we can flow form these to make them cost effective. One of these dorms is and it's made within Hmm. The problem is, And if you basically you find they all have And we approach the entire fashion to how ball bearing bearings, they make a million balls and then they find six that and they can make one accurate bearing. We do the same. We make a and which is sort through them, and we will find three the same size and we can make a stage. - Okay. I think this is to bounce over to ISAR with their VP of production, how they're manufacturing their tanks, which is almost the exact that Stefan just said. - This is, was built up in the last six months. This is hard to believe. And we are already building - Second launch is already being built. - So we have two main processes here. We have manual layup, like you see the colleagues over there, and this is already a serial production. So when they're finished they're gonna proceed We're running in multiple shifts right now to have the output we are expecting, and we probably like it more. And I see it moving. This is, this is my, my top three processes where is the, the pipe bending the, the the AM additive manufacturing. Yeah. And the carbon fiber winding. - Oh, look at that. It's moving - It's just, and it does There's a second machine next to it. We just removed the part and - I've always wanted to see this. I've actually never seen one And it's beautiful. I mean, it is like a, It's amazing. And it's, and it's almost looks it looks like COPA, composite overwrapped pressure vessel. But it's only composite. Like it's, - It's only composite in this case. Yeah, no, no line inside. There are many things you have but when it works and you have an automated - Yeah. This looks like it's a more or less finished section here, huh? Yep. Oh yes. Look at that. How thick is, is the, the end thickness of this thing is - Not very thick. There. There's the, the precise to be different thicknesses because you don't have the Right. I you don't want - Right, - Look at that. That's amazing. So then, so once it's laid up, it's gonna be laid up over there. Yeah. How do you even and over to here? Like what's, - So after, after you wind it, there are certain processes, we, we cannot show today But then you take it you put a vacuum bag around you cure it, and from then and you put the, the, the bulkheads in - All the, all the features like the, - All the features. Yeah. And then you see it And that's what we are gonna see soon in the launch assembly. - Cool. Yeah. So while RFA was focusing on to be focusing on performance and the scale of manufacturing. But now let's hop back to RFA and take a look at their Helix of their unique production philosophies go another step further. - Super cool. This is the holy This is where we make Helix motors. So - What's the main combustion - It's a hundred bar. In this very early to take this entire Helix engine up to approach much higher chamber We want to push it all the way to 300 bar, but now we have very little time. The first design is limited to a hundred bar chamber pressure. We want to get into orbit With a hundred bar, we have Right? And with a hundred bar to get to orbit quickly. Remember there is a hundred companies who are trying to do this. We will die if we don't go as somehow possible, and this is right now, the time where we fix the engine and we move on to this first as we somehow can, if you push hundred bar up to 300, the engine doesn't actually grow in size. Right. It stays the same thing. And you can see this is why basically grow twice in length. This is the key, right? Yeah. Every time the propulsion performance, more thrust or more ISP, you - Can literally grow the rocket. - We can just grow the rocket and the price per payload reduces, reduces and hopefully we get Hopefully we get paid and we can survive the, the, of this is automotive. The company that makes and all these bellows, they make exhaust systems And it's the same thing. Like car, the exhaust system company that makes all the also on the vehicle. It's - All the same. No way. It's - Cheap. This bells you find in after the collectors before the catalytic - Yeah. So does that mean to do anything different when Because you'd think almost the the opposite end of the scale, you know? - Yeah, absolutely. So this We basically use all and components, but the reality is that it's not one-to-one the same thing. We change material specs, heat treatments, welding specifications, that IP we roll in. And for the manufacturers, they love it because they can charge us twice the price and they think they're making a killing. Little do they know that we to the old school aerospace by some aerospace company. Right. - So then this is, and this - Correct? Yeah, it's a TVC actuator and the actual brushless DC that you will find in a lot of electric scooters in the future. It's the same thing. It's already built in quite large numbers. The same with this ball screw. This ball screw here is from They built tons of them. Of course the internals are Again, same principle, it's for them to make us but for us it's one 10th of to a dedicated specific space company. The gimbal is a really cool example. It's straight out of a race car. It's literally nothing different. You could design the gimbal and make it expensive, but this is only a couple and it's straight out of straight out of a race car. The same with a lot of the valves. We actually went to a lot of these German automotive companies and we asked them, look, what and the most reliable valves And they told us, look, they're The most reliable valves that we have run all the manufacturing line because if that fails, we lose millions of dollars every hour of this manufacturing line standing still. Right. And that is the And we basically said, look, we're gonna use this valve everywhere. Huh? And this is like a standard valve. And the engineers didn't and get something custom. We basically said, this is a valve. We will talk to the manufacturer increase the pressure rating to 400 bar and then we just use it everywhere and we have hundreds of these valves on the vehicle, on the engine. It's always the same thing. - And they have they been in testing, so where have they been reliable - They, they were the They are the most reliable that we have on the entire vehicle. And that's crazy. The key comes thousands of, in very Thousands every year. Right. And again, it's not exactly the you will find on a manufacturing line that these automotive companies, We have different seals, we have slightly different parameters in it. The key is it's not from that charges you five 10 grand per valve. Right. This costs a few - So your biggest worry is not about maximizing the, you know, for every single component and trying to minimize the, You're really looking what is the cheapest way to get to orbit. Yeah, absolutely. For there's only one thing, and that's the payload And it's all cost based. We have a mass model, but the mass model is not super stringent. It allows us to basically solutions and literally we are that build a rocket rather than a rocket company building a rocket. You're probably, you're probably familiar with these connectors. Yeah. You'll find them on every ECU - OBD-II port? You will find these on the ECUs of cars and some of them run airbag signals. So how reliable are they? - Yeah, they have to be. Yeah. So - As long as they use the of water in it, we can and then they're good to be used here. The key is that they've We build about 10 million Right, right. That's a lot of experience and you have to tap in there. If you don't tap in there, This is what we are all about. We use automotive to the core. Every single component we ask how would this look like in automotive and how much does it cost in automotive? And we always find not small differences. We find orders of magnitudes And that's what the key here is to make it really low - So I actually engraved - No way. My initials are - Yep, sure. - Well it's his responsibility now. - Yeah. That's awesome. Alright, - So you're going, I, I hand you, let's, let's do it like this here. Get this fast because I need Otherwise it falls You just flick the first one in. Just go right here. So we put this - Here, this is about an M8 bolt - M6. Yes. M6 - Is, is the, is the flight - Is that Unfortunately the because I wanted to use a but we decided to CNC machine it and it's, I hate it that there's some money because we decided to CNC machine a box. - Probably need to one or the other part, which looks really aerospace - Yeah. Hey, I mean at the end of the day it's at least beautiful, - Right? It is beautiful. At least inside is really low cost. - So it really does to the core when it's CNC machined. - If I see a CNC , a CNC machined part, I for my own projects in my own garage. But when I see it here that's just way too expensive. - Then you have this nice package, right? And just like nicely. So and just weld together. - So that's what we do. The if you look into automotive, why they can make cars so cheap. It's because it's, the entire Everything is sheet metal. Right? Right. They don't CNC machine much. Right. And this is why sheet Every design that you see here, look, show me the sheet metal version. The sheet metal version is king. I mean that is cheap and that's king. And if you use the right material, as some CNC machined part - before.... So RFA wants to buy as whenever possible. But this is very different of launch vehicles before our tour. So - We always look into how can we have maximum How can we have the most understanding, how can we have everything as vertical as we can in house because we are convinced this in the end, also the most and in the end operating our systems. - So ISAR is focusing on and as much full automation which they say will enable them to build many rockets cost competitively. And this was pretty evident their 3D printers. - Wow. So just tiny, tiny bit by tiny bit. Is this the thrust chamber or is or or what are - Yeah, - So cool. - What you aso see here is on the They are now welded. It's welding process And these are for our quality controls. So we achieve them, tear them apart. We want to get the most out of the material like all the companies do. But we have it with every single part. We have the test parts how we can enhance the And while we are watching this, there's a thermal camera that there are no sectors because that would weaken our Yeah. - So it's always watching, confirming, making sure that everything's good - And in case we figure out with material specifications, we could like rewind on the cameras. Right. And really see what Wow. We are very happy about this. And this is at, at the moment the latest The printer manufacturer is close by. We are kind of a, a customer where they usually ask if we want to introduce new technology. So we are checking this, but this gives us a to be very fast and very - And again, vertical integration was seen with their engine computers - Everything built in housings, testing. This is a very unique approach of vertical integration. Right. But in the end of the because you start at zero, but then in the end of the day, I mean you can ask the Right. And then you can figure out how to improve it very quickly. Yep. You don't have to read you don't have to get them on the opening hours and - Yep. Okay, so now let's go check out one of ISAR's early development where I learned a few surprising facts. - Let's go through our - Yes. So this is one of our sea level engines that we use in the first stage. Nine of them in total. Cool. - Look at even the, okay, so - Shoot. this is our gas generator - That's the turbine, Basically this pump here. Yeah, - That's the gas generator that feeds hot gas here into the turbine - And then it spins down. This is the big - Part and goes through the exhaust. Yep. So it's an open cycle. We don't feed it back into It goes through the exhaust and then this turbine powers that sit on a shaft upstream. And so basically this is the liquid oxygen that comes in here from And then the lower one - And the, I'm I'm curious why the, why we have a little like the turbine exhaust. What's that for? - This is purely for performance. So we can get a slightly higher - Because it helps speed or what? Yeah, exactly. Huh. - It's a small nozzle. I don't know why that surprises me. I'm surprised there's enough pressure. So does it actually get super, of it, so it actually chokes and so it even would contribute a small amount of thrust, - Yeah. You don't want to - Right, right. That's pretty spectacular. Okay, so, so said the oxygen So oxygen, oh, I better So oxygen comes at the top, goes over here to the, - So this is the main valve. - The main oxygen - Yep. Which then, wait, wait, wait. Why is your main oxygen it goes right into the it goes right into the, for the bottom of the chamber. - That's the manifold. Exactly. - Are you cooling half of - It looks like it. And basically from there it goes through the injector head, which is up here. - So you're using liquid oxygen as in the through the regen channels? - Yes, we do. - That's cool. I I've only heard of one and it's the dual expander cycle engine. I think it's the BE-7 does does both. And a few, there's a Russian And I've always wondered why not because it just seems like it you know, and obviously the, the risk is if you have a oxygen leak equals bad but - Exactly. But that's a simple, just, just don't have a leak. It's simple to say. Yeah. So yes, I, I think of touching the topic because hard oxygen that's just gonna burn with anything you give it. Right. So you need to really Yeah. But in the end, a lot of cooling power. - Yeah. - Okay, that's awesome. So let me follow the, the fuel and see if we can figure out what the, follow the fuel and see what - Exactly, so this is, It will have to go to this side here. - Oh yeah. Just that little guy there to - Follow the propane flow into the - Main valve. So main, so main fuel valve down here and this is the coming and then the main fuel valves through the regen channel down the nozzle, back up the nozzle. At what point does it go into the, into the gas generator. There you go - Out of the nozzle. Yep. And up into the injector. Yep. And for the gas generator we directly from the main valve. So you don't have this line But it goes basically the of several valves that Right. So you see one that is certainly the propane line. - Oh right. Yep, yep. So yeah, let me, so the propane line runs, that main fuel valve area. Right? Exactly. And then run from here down and that's how it's getting of course or the, the gas container, which of course the gas generator basically a fuel rich - Exactly. So you burn it fuel rich so the gas doesn't get too hot. Yep. Because we don't have rich and cooling of the gas generator. Right. And especially the Cannot see that much temperature because definitely don't want to have rich and cooling of turbine blades. Right, right. That's why you go fuel rich to just burn colder. It's not as efficient as but it's, it's good enough - Getting as much energy out of it as you can while keeping maintainable temperature. - Exactly. And what's the spin start mechanism? - It's pressure, far spin start - Okay. And just nitrogen - Helium. - Okay. And so that, so in spin start, do you actually just the gas generator and like that? Or is it No, a separate like spin start? - No, no spin - The, there's an a's a - Which in fact is it, this this line because it has its own tap - Up over here. You know our engine better than I do. This is exactly, this - Yeah, that is So I love the compact turbo machinery. I mean it just reminds me of, you know, I've seen turbochargers on cars. Yeah. You know about the size. So to see this powering of how many Yeah, - But this, this is the power - Oh, like a hundred cars basically. Yes. Which I think people just of energy that gets, you know, unleashed in something even Yep. And then do you guys, I this, this gimbal mount here, I mean, do you guys manufacture that - That's also a manufacture in house. That was actually one of that we had built was for the gimbal to do the structural testing and to actually swivel the engine around. Right. All in-house built basically needs to bear the whole thrust load and transmit that into Yes. So very highly loaded part, but what you see on this that is designed and built in-house. And especially when it comes that technology in-house - Back to RFA, we're going to check out their flight one first stage, which was undergoing testing. Alright, where are we? - Okay, so this is our test facility. We are just accepted You can probably see it through This is our secret. Oh - Geez. - Secret location. It's actually, we are We're actually not And this is what we have done, the largest cryogenic burst You probably remember this but we had the same setup last year here and we went all the way up to with liquid nitrogen. Now this time around, for the first flight and we can't kill it. It needs to survive. This This is an acceptance test now. So a little bit lower loads, but the loads are still higher than what it will see in flight. Right. And this is key now, One is just a pressure test and the second test is We basically tell the press system to start pressing the tanks and then we will measure basically propellants coming And we need to verify that can operate our engines and - Alright. So where, so how and where's your launchpad again? - Yeah, we, we are of the UK from Scotland. That's right Saxavord. Yep. And the cool thing is that we basically just and the truck itself goes on ferry 1, 2, 3 and then we are there. Hmm. - So and where's the port that it goes to? Do you go up to like - And then there's this thing, through Germany on a truck. Germany is a small country, and you are basically from And then it goes on to first And then within a couple - But this, this can fit inside a normal, fairly normal like on - Okay. There, if you look that's sort of the basically put on the road. In the US it's sort of similar that, we are two meters. So all the transportation there is no special requirements for it. And yeah, there's not a big - You ship it inside of like a container? Or is it just shipped like - Nah, it's stainless steel man. It's like, it can be, can We will make sure that it's But we will, we, we will not put massive precautions into shipping this thing. I mean it needs to be low cost in every single operation that we do. - And is, is it slightly do you maintain some pressure - During shipment? - We can, yeah. So we, when the engineers, when we at some point we have to put But this very first vehicle, which we call minimum viable product MVP, the first prototype, we don't actually need But as the vehicle grows, to put 0.1 0.2 bars in. - And then that interstage, a carbon fiber carbon that's - Carbon fiber because the, The optimizer never chose because the inter stages are Right. And that means to benefit ratio you get if you lose, use a really low density But what it has done automotive composite. So this is not a space composite. It costs about half in the high modular composite. We use a material that is very And again, it's not, we but the optimizer told us, to make it cost efficient for the customer to use automotive grade composites. - Next we took a lift up to and its interstage. - You can see the intermediate bulkhead. Can you see this? Can you - Close to each other? Yep. This is basically, we've been in the first and this is the second where the bike is located internally. Okay. - Yeah. So this is what we were And when we were in it before I forgot, did it even have a bulkhead in it? What we or were we at the bulkhead? - Yeah, we were at the bulkhead. We were exactly at this point. So we were basically in and you can see some of these welds here that look a little bit funny in color. These are basically locations and close the tank to be absolutely a hundred This is still an ongoing process, but we're getting quite good at it. So let's go up now and have See this, this interface is super critical because basically the composite but the stages are all different. So can you see these These flexible fingers basically allow us to adopt the accurate inter And once we're adopted, - Right, right. Kind Typically what you typically and then you rivet and then you're done. We do it the opposite way around. We put everything on its then we put it on, then we weld it. - So it's How do you, how do is going to be aligned? Like left, you know, How do you know it's gonna be like perfectly aligned? Yeah, we, - We basically take three and accurately measure length to all the way to the top. And then you have three points and you can really and basically only start welding and tacking it on if the - Right, right. that we don't need this to be conversation this morning. If the entire centricity is And that's the key to and we can make these It doesn't need to be a We can make these in literally how to do industrial stuff. And now you get a, you get to have a look into the, into the inter stage and this is basically this is basically where and the second stage engine is So the second stage And this composite interstage is something very interesting. Can you see the, the, the carbon - The Yep. Yeah. That's something super special that makes this interstage and very performant. - Lastly, let's go back to and flight hardware to get a sense of what their vehicle will look So this is the payload fairing. You can actually hear it, I can hear the echo in the payload ferrying. Yeah. So there's already a Like you got the little COPV bottles and those through those The steel lines are what actually pop open all the - That Exactly. So what you see here along the bottom, that's our, our - Oh right. Because this the payload adapter or the upper upper stages hold onto the upper - Exactly. So, and this is really There is no pyrotechnics involved. We can test it, check it for flight and then it's super reliable, super low shock in flight. So this is the horizontal separation that splits the faring Yep. And then we have and then we just have very that will basically push the two faring halves apart. That makes - Sense in sense. So what I, so these are, are - Exactly. - Sorry, I'm pointing, I'm making sure that I can So these are the vents quickly it depressurizes. Right. - Mainly if you see, if you you see a big interface, which Oh. So while we are sitting on the pad or even during rollout or during AAT, when we have and encapsulated, we need that the right conditions Yeah, exactly. So the right and that comes through that And these are the vent ports to vent out the arrogance. Oh, even - Out the air again - Does it work at all in ascent though? 'cause I know you don't want fearing at the same speed You don't want it to totally How do you regulate that? Or - It, it's pretty much So you just depressurize through the atmosphere and the you vent the ferry, huh? It's a very simple Okay. Passive system. But the, the AC is because we want to launch where it gets really, really cold. We want to launch from French very high humidity, We need to be able to deal With the same system basically. And especially humidity that is hard to get rid of and you And this whole structure, as we said, you can lift and carry it around the entire production. That's crazy. Done that It's a composite sandwich. - Yep. With like aluminum - And then of course you need which is normal when you 'cause especially that part of the rocket gets really supersonic hypersonic speeds and you compress the air in front, it gets really, really hot. Yeah. So you also need the protects the carbon composite. What you see here, I think you can guess what it is, payload. This is our - Payload fearing adapter or payload adapter, whatever - The payload adapter. So it's actually a which you would know from - And Kerbal Space Program. - Exactly. And this is where the payload fairing And the payload will sit with all kinds of adapters you can. Right. You can imagine on top of that super light if you - The cork here, is that of the in because this of the, of the top of the - Is actually the skim and the cork is basically heat protection. - This is on the outs. This is Oh, that's crazy. Yeah, I would love to lift it though, but I would take your invite - It's flight hardware. Don't destroy - It. Oh my gosh. That's actually pretty crazy that the entire thing. Yeah, that's pretty nuts. Dang. So this is all on the outside. So, so these are the where the faring attaches, right? - Exactly. This is where this is basically where the Yep. And then they will swing open. - That's really cool. composite sandwich structure. Super light, super stiff. Exactly the right thing Then we can move to the interstage. So this sits on top of our and basically we're right now to the second stage. So this is where the separation It's actually exactly the same system that we use in the payload faring. Cool. So the same pneumatic slightly different and - Maybe a little bigger - To push the stages apart. But essentially the therefore also can before we fly, make sure it works properly and don't use pyro and you never know if - Or not. And this allows you to, the test time double, I mean - Absolutely. The moment we tested this faring, we had a big foam pit here in the hall and we made it separate We knew the separation system works and it will work here as well. Right. What you see over assembly of our thrust where the nine engines are being attached. This is the second one. We can check out the where we have a fully - Awesome. Let's do that. - Alright, so this is our test rig, which we use for all kind of structural testing of You see the massive hydraulic That we used to actuate and to create all the load cases that we would have in flight. So we can compress the We actually already, we also for example, on the fairing to really create all the flight loads that we would encounter. And what you see rigged up of our first stage. So this is the thrust structure that you can actually see the interface points, where the nine engines will be attached to and how the whole load the carbon composite skin - Right through the, through those trellis frame looking things and up exactly up into the skin there. - Right now of course with strain gauges and, and measurement. All those cables won't fly. But this is the test that infrastructure for - Just to confirm, obviously that we is just there basically. It's not exactly, - That's, that's kind Yep. In, in real life to the first stage propane tank. Yep. We saw that cylinder in That's what will be attached to. And then you're gonna basically a heat shield that Yep. From any, you know, flow, - Going back up, going and burning some sensitive - And so all of the, like basically each attached to Exactly. So there's no other, there's no flight hardware on this. It's literally this entire bundle snake of cables is all just to feed to let it know how exactly - Exactly. That's only, that's Only the structures that and those structures where it is actually attached to the rig. This is our hold down release interface. - Okay. So this is where Oh, so - That's actually the hold clams will engage in. Cool. And we're basically of thrust will have to be withstood held pad until we release. Yeah. - So both companies are taking to how to be competitive. So let's hear in their own to thrive in this competitive market? - Very cool jumper Keagan, I love this. Look, this is the number one They're flying into space Europe is flying to orbit a It's really devastating. - And how do you guys plan to change that? - We build rockets just like cars and we are just gonna - If I may add one thing about it's not purely It is the level of autonomy and vertical integration that we have. We are extremely flexible and agile in the way we can. We can work as a company. So for example, if we have test side, we build up ourselves, We know it perfectly inside We have all the design tools We can adapt immediately testing, we can adapt the design, we can throw it to production. We need one week to And then we can send it and go test the next iteration. That's the core strength of our company. - And in my opinion, this experiment to see where these companies will be how differently they're But I don't think there's any particular key to success here. I don't think there's any one to ensure they'll be the Europe is inherently by not having any eastern coastlines. And it's fairly northern latitudes that all make it more challenging from a performance standpoint. But Europe is also a hub for some of the most high and some of the highest educated And just like all things space flight, nothing is guaranteed, nothing is certain, but it's the fine margins And with some of these smartest to solve such complex issues, to speak, I have no doubt of the right design risk, and talented hardworking rockets of our future. Be sure and follow both RFA and ISAR on their social with all their action. I can't wait to cheer them for their first flights. And if working for one of to you, don't hesitate to to see available positions. Now, they didn't tell me to say this, but I feel like it'd just be a no brainer. Both companies were awesome and it'd be so fun to work And as always, I owe a huge thank you to my Patreon supporters, YouTube members, and X subscribers for helping make videos If you wanna support the to patreon.com/everydayastronaut or hit the join button on YouTube or just leave a comment like That's gonna do it for me. I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut for everyday people.