Back in 2022 Formula 1 announced that starting fully sustainable fuels which means that no new Instead, and I quote they say that the &quot;carbon municipal waste or even extracted directly from Formula 1 in 2023 included around 150,000 km Largely due to the fact that the order reduction of land and air travel. When moving on of Formula 1 rely on around 300 cargo trucks transporting the race cars, the engine, the other equipment, hospitality equipment, as well as for the teams at race event. These buildings pretty much a small scale temporary hotel, where When traveling between continents, Formula which transport everything between continents. they estimate that for 2023, the planes will do around 20,000 km, but there's 300 trucks. Now, million kilometers needed to complete the 2023 km, pretty much all of it, is on non-sustainable fuel providers. Now, when we add the math for the the events, they account for 1.9% of the total that does not include all the visitors that come buses, motor homes, caravans, camper vans, you name sustainability in 2026, in three years, not this In three years. Our next example comes from BMW, who recycled plastics, and how they recycle metal their vehicles. Now, here's what they also thought for heated seats. Basically, all the hardware, relays, the fuses, together with all the software into every vehicle, but you can't use it unless to BMW. Of course, as we know, many cars exist in not to pay the subscription for heated seats equipment which is manufactured, and will have to will never be used. And, of course, the manufacturing an environmental impact. The future recycling of And, the added weight of this equipment negatively Now, KTM Motorcycles, they had a very similar idea, and mode basically means that they install a very wide other features into every motorcycle. These, of other electronics, as well as their own software. deactivated, and you get to continue using only we have the deliberate manufacturing, and future the manufacturer receives a profit. Something among car, motorcycle, truck, and farm equipment and environmentally responsible, is that they like either purposely welded, or sealed, or soldered, accessed or repaired. And, as we know, repairing than recycling that and making a brand new. A similar practice involves part Fusion For example, we have intercourse fused into intake assemblies, where the failure of one part requires that we have fully functioning parts ending barrier against third party maintenance and extremely expensive special tools, together with a part or something similar, to restore vehicle alone in this. Tech giants like apple and many, are also experts at greenwashing. Apple likes first carbon neutral product. The wristband has other manufacturers of consumer electronics and on making their devices impossible or difficult then, they spend further millions to lobby against their devices unrepairable and force consumers to repairing something recycling it, and then making than simply repairing an already existing device. all this money that has been spent on making it repairable, instead, it could have been spent on an educating third-party repair shops, or even This would have been a truly measurable positive also negatively impact future profits of charity. And, Apple, BMW, KTM, Formula 1, and all the none of them are charities. So, based on this, we can it's profit-based and ruled by giant corporations, bend governments and legislation to their will. to that problem is to, then, dismantle capitalism environmental well-being very high on the list happiness shall ensue. Communism does have some capitalism is not the problem, and communism is of power. Capitalism places immense power in the power in the hands of the government and its humans with immense power at their disposal, abuse that power. The greater the power, and the to abuse that power. And the motivation behind So, now, we arrive at the conclusion where greed is the is just as naive as believing that communism can whatever, teaches us that greed is bad. and naive. And, that is because greed is hardcoded many animals. For example, a wolf jumping into a he can, even though he can only carry and eat one behind an immeasurable number of innovations and to go further and do more to live better, and embraces it, which is one of the reasons why Communism sounds great in theory. It has many of human mentality, morality, consciousness, is not the point where we can imagine communism, where we but we have not evolved to the point where we can hard hardcoded in our DNA that means we can't get to self-destruction through endless consumption. We are drowning in garbage, and sizzling in our hazmat changed future. Maybe, to understand everything individual. And, if we imagine that all humanity be smoking, because our collective activities the same time we're addicted to it, because we're So, to solve our problem, we have to ask, when do is fear. Fear is the only motivator, as powerful, quit smoking when the doctor tells them that due to the effects of smoking, or when they feel disease, like cancer, so, in other words, humans do tangible, immediately visible negative consequence. anyone to change their lifestyle or their behavior isn't a immediately visible negative consequence poor but it's not too bad, we can still breathe well it's not too bad, it's bearable, and somebody's was just as bad that one day in 1932. There's in the middle of the ocean far away, and not in at the stage where we are smoking, the doctor is because it will eventually kill us, but we still So, we're continuing to smoke. Of course, the analogy about humanities impact on the environment climate very familiar with. Now, what's important here, is to this scientific research, because corporations they have, they are the movers of the important to ignore this research, the doctor's warnings, and up public appearances, to make themselves look they hope this will lead to profit maximization, maximization is, of course, all corporations really entities, and there's no limit, there's no profit goal, they will simply want more, and this really nothing evil about it, there's no need to resort to anti-intellectualism, or any of the other This is simply the anatomy of the corporations, which model. This is how things work. That's here, that's important. Because, it demonstrates corporations, large entities, governments, they can An output can be received from them, if we give input is weak. This is key. So, for example, the 1.9% the best we can do, but again, it's something, something as fossil fuel centered as Formula 1, Another example, there's many more, for example, the the universal charger. Again, not much, but it's changes in term, in relation to the right to repair they got rid of their heated seat subscriptions. for pretty much all the other features, but they it's something. Why just the heated seats? Because understandable, very suitable for the media, sharing online. So, it went viral, generated this and this forced a big input on something, and this get rid of the heated seats. And this demonstrates that I mentioned, all these changes and reactions, input that forced the reaction always starts online input generated online, has potential to create reaction, very weak output, because the input that And this brings us to the internet, and the reason why I that this video isn't about cars, or bikes, or will find this unsettling probably the same people deeply unsettling, because apparently the notion feed, and having to scroll past it, is traumatic, but unsubscribe, please do. Now, no, this video isn't 15 years of daily observation of the car, engine, I've been observing these markets for the past 15 I wanted to. And, the other part of the equation is and usage of the internet, since almost day one, very early days of the internet. Unfortunately these days were bad. Because the early days of the a Napster user and had the best win up skins, but what I was thinking about the internet when it and omnipresent as as it is today. And I thought that will happen to humanity, because it will end truth. It will expose everyone to all of these anyone who has an irrational attachment to any forced to abandon this attachment after being who claim to be the truth, and this will this will means that everyone will adopt the mentality questions everything at all times, including him concept of absolute truth. This does not exist for we know at this time, based on current evidence. truth at this time may very well change in the phenomenon change. Therefore, truth for a scientist too is like the truth: fluid and everchanging, is fluid, but he's always trying to move forward, end the monopoly over truth, but I was completely on humanity. Instead of adopting this scientific, with all the different truths, different groups truth, rejected all the other truths and proceeded Instead of collective rationalization, what we before the Internet only now more intensive, more our phones all the time, and we get notifications, posts/tweet/comments/whatever, and now all these truths contrast and difference is even more painfully sheer amount of energy and time wasted on arguing all sorts of different actors are very skilled own cause or benefit. Divide and conquer, as the percentage of the collective energy and potential prove who's right. But you see, even if you manage never happen, by the way, but even if you somehow other than some sort of personal satisfaction. And The concepts of right-wrong, true-false, they do not The grass grows, the gazelle eats the grass, the lion it. It simply is. Right-wrong, true-false, leftwing- crutches invented by humans, with the goal of to do, before taking an action. They are labels to the incredible amount of information we have to in the grand scheme of things. The only things and survival. And the only thing that can ensure there's nothing more powerful than a rational, open, species, we have done so by thinking rationally. Yes, live in, but corporations are ultimately dependent research, the &quot;doctor's warnings&quot;, but they cannot a large number of consumers. Without consumers to the number of consumers behind an input and an from the corporation. Currently the internet is disorganized inputs, and therefore, the outputs are get rid of a monthly subscription for heated seats. thrives, could leverage its immense potential and governments. An internet where a collective well-made, long lasting, easy to repair products rationality thrives could ensure an environment, repair these products because they're made easy both, for the consumer and for the environment. The and pressure is not. And here's the important thing, and that the environmental impact of humanity entitled to every kind of opinion, but the rational that your opinion is correct and a different past opinions because opinions do not matter. The has the greatest measurable collective benefit as must not differ in our rational understanding of