- [Jared] Sometimes, can be fascinating. In the 1980s and 1990s, this and record shows off your television. In this video, we're gonna take a look at the inside of a VCR (electricity buzzing) This video is sponsored by NordVPN. (gentle music) This is the VCR, it stands it plays VHS cassette tapes, VHS stands for Video Home System. Take the tape, push it in, press play, and there's your movie. The VCR is becoming a thing of the past, if you were born after you might not have even used one of these. Nowadays there's DVDs and Blu-ray. Why use these when you off the internet? The VCR is probably not but to me, this is still of technology. To really understand it, we need a little bit of background. In the early 1900s, if you on a screen, you had to leave your house and go to a movie theater. Black and white televisions by the 1950s, in the Then in the late 1970s came VHS, this was a huge game changer. Previously, you were limited at that time. So if a TV program was on at 7:00 p.m., then you had to be in front There was no way to record it, with VHS, you could now record TV programs and bring home your whenever you wanted, this was a big deal. Now to be fair, there called Betamax. It looked and worked very similar to VHS. Betamax was slightly higher quality but VHS was slightly cheaper and could store a longer length of video. After a few years of and that's why most people VCRs and VHS tapes were most popular during the 1980s and 1990s. Then we saw it's decline when DVDs began to rise in popularity. DVDs could produce better quality and you could fit a lot next to each other. However, even today there that still use VHS and lucky a VCR player at a thrift store for only 10 or 20 U.S. dollars. When I was younger, I and seeing all of the parts. I remember thinking, how does it work? So this video is an attempt that I had when I was younger. First, let's take a look You can see two reels inside. From the bottom, you can see In the front is the spring-loaded door. This is normally locked into place. The VCR will press right here which then unlocks the door. When the door is open, you where the movie is stored. I would highly recommend not touching this with your fingers, you could ruin the tape and make it unwatchable. On the bottom of the VHS is five screws, take these out and then outer shell comes off. As the movie plays, the from the supply reel all the Part of the tape will so the VCR can read it. Well, I'll show you how that Most VHS tapes hold If you were to unravel all of this, it would be enough tape to extend most of the way up the Eiffel Tower, that's a lot of tape. This is the reel lock mechanism. It prevents the reels from rotating which keeps the magnetic When the VHS tape is a piece of metal will This will push the lever If the video was rewound all the way, then the magnetic tape on the left side. I can still remember the that would say, be kind, rewind. Sometimes you would get if you didn't rewind it. Now let's look at the actual VCR player. After undoing a few screws, part of the case usually comes right off. There were a handful of companies and quite a few different they will be very similar to read the same VHS tapes. Here's a few of the main which controls most of the which comes to the back of the machine and connects to the which runs most of the mechanical which reads channels being and the actual VCR mechanism is right here in the center of the machine. There is a complex system of gears to move the mechanical Let's start here with the this is where you insert the VHS tape. The mechanism takes Did you catch all that? There were many things let's see it again. Notice the spring-loaded When the tape comes which exposes the magnetic tape. On the base plate of the machine, you'll see two guide rollers. The VCR motor can move When the tape is inserted, right into these holes When the guide rollers move, it pulls the tape along with it. This happens every time this is how the VCR gets Sometimes they call this because the shape of the magnetic tape kind of looks like the letter M. The tape is wrapped around the drum. This is the part that reads information on the magnetic tape. You might be thinking the Did somebody put it in wrong? Maybe it's broken? Nope, this is intentional, by just a few degrees, later in the video, I'll show you why, but a few more of the parts. This is the capstan, and When the machine is in which will slowly pull the tape. It's important to keep the against the drum, that's the right here and here. This is the erase head, when the picture and audio will be erased before new information This is the audio and control track head. This writes and reads the to the magnetic tape. When we want to rewind the tension arms and pinch then the spools beneath If it's in fast forward, but if it's in rewind, then these can move very quickly so that you don't have to wait as long. The VCR has to stop before the end where it could snap the magnetic tape which would make it unwatchable. But how does it know how to do this? How does it know when to stop? Well, there's a tiny LED and then end of tape sensors on each side. When the VHS tape is inside the machine, the LED light will be Once it gets to the very now the light can shine this is how the VCR knows that or end of the tape. There's one more sensor this is the record sensor. There's a little square tab this is what tells the VCR sensor whether it's okay to record or not. If there's a tab there, then the VCR will let But if it's been broken off, then the VCR will prevent this is why store-bought VHS it would be a shame to record Let's talk more and how you read and write information to the magnetic tape. On the side you'll see These are the heads that can Some machines only have two of these but higher quality machines Sometimes the front of your how many heads are in the drum. The top half of the drum will or rotations per minute. The magnetic tape will be moving at only a few centimeters per second. Remember that the drum is not actually pulling the magnetic tape, that's the job of the pinch roller that we This pulls the tape, the surface of the drum. Here is the reason that On the magnetic tape, will be written in diagonal lines. This is to optimize the of the magnetic tape. The writing and reading of these lines will be done by the You can see how the heads so that they touch the So the heads are spinning around and then the tape is slowly being pulled. If you follow the magnetic patterns, the heads will be tracing This is referred to as helical scan, it's the method for how they read and write information These heads are sensitive on the tape. This makes a signal which moves through the electronics and up to your TV where it is then converted If your VCR is in record mode, will be converted into magnetic patterns that will then be stored Once the magnetic tape gets past the drum, it then comes past the audio This will read and write sound information to the very top of the magnetic tape. Remember the green diagonal lines, that's the video information, and the blue at the top, or what you hear from your TV. Then the bottom of the tape is used for extra information that tells the VCR how fast to move the magnetic tape. For those who remember, of the tape speed setting. You could fit more video onto your tape in exchange for lower quality playback. Some VCRs had a feature called Hi-Fi audio which is basically higher quality sound. It had two specific audio The sound information could be written in the same space as the video. The audio would be written deeper inside so that it wouldn't be When you're all done, it's We basically just do the tension arms go back in, then the pinch roller comes out, the magnetic tape goes back and the tape comes out of the machine. Notice this lever on the right it will then pull open the outer door so the VHS tape can come through. There are a handful of controls Each one of these controls on the circuit board, press the control and inside this moves a small lever which then presses the button. This is how you control the VCR player. Knowing how complex a VCR is, it's amazing that they Even if you take good care of it, avoid getting dust or moisture inside and avoid putting any this is a very bad idea by the way, these sensitive components and in fact, VHS tapes So if you have any precious it's a good idea to not wait too long before transferring which will last a lot longer. Making these videos is hard, and then putting together the I wouldn't be able to of the sponsor for this It's an app that's used to while you browse the internet. So this is what sites you're and even where you are With NordVPN, this so that only you can see it. There are many reasons to use NordVPN, one of my favorites is that may not be available in your country. When you open up the NordVPN app, all you have to do is click and you're in, now just use the internet like you normally would. If you wanna access a server well, that's really easy to do too. NordVPN runs in the so you won't even know it's there. You can protect all your iOS, macOS, Linux, and VCR. Oh, wait, scratch that last one but for real, 30-day money back guarantee, so you have nothing to lose To get your exclusive deal go to NordVPN.com/JaredOwen. (gentle music) My name's Jared, I create 3D animations to show and explain how things work. Watch another animation by or click here to subscribe. Thanks for watching and (gentle music)