Transcriber: Alena Koroleva OK, so I have to make a confession. Every time I rehearsed this speech, I got to the point What I want to talk with you about And what moves me is the beauty and the power standing up together to solve a problem This is me a couple of years ago. I was deeply unsettled I knew it was there, but it seemed And at the same time, our global economic system that is based on digging out coal, oil and gas - which holds responsible for two thirds Now, living a normal life in Germany, I was part of the system every day, from my consumption to the food I eat, the waste I produce. In fact, I felt that I was that I didn't even have I was global warming in a way. And no matter what I would do it would never be enough I felt helpless when I thought of it, and so for a long time, I'm sure you are aware that global warming It's proceeding much more rapidly and although we have no time to lose, our political leaders don't seem to break free from those fossil fuels. Although there are some like introducing carbon taxes, ending subsidies that are really high, or an obligatory carbon footprint label so we actually have a choice and we foster competition among companies We get none of this. And this is even more confusing And I kept asking myself, &quot;Is there anything I as an individual Well, I found there is. Two years ago, I signed It's a US based NGO fighting climate change And this movement really excited me. I saw people taking They were many, and they didn't at all seem sad They looked like they had a lot of fun. And I fell in love with that movement. Now, I have children and I have a job - I'm a service design strategist - but at this point, I didn't at all think about how to put some effort into this. I just knew I wanted to be part of it. I wanted to end my paralysis. On the map of 350.org, which is the local campaign It's a city actually. When I got to meet these beautiful people, I learned that their goal was to get the city of Berlin to divest Just like you might be right now, What is this 'divestment'? I had no idea. But by now, I've found out that I want to share with you. Number one: Divestment is to pull out our money It's basically the opposite because the investments that we have are being withdrawn from companies Those are companies like Shell, NVE, you get the picture. It's basically a boycott, simple as that. Now you may say, &quot;That sounds like a good idea, but I don't even own shares I also thought that I didn't, and then I had to found out that I did. Not because I ever took that decision but because the ones public administration, my bank, my insurances, my pension fund. No matter who I give my money to, some of it goes in the form of loans, shares, Today there is almost no exception. Now, I realized and as a stakeholder I can interfere. I can tell them that I don't want this. Chances are better but together with other people And this is how individuals get together and ask their institutions It's something very simple It's to divest from those companies that are at the root of the system And it's usually not that much; it's just between five and ten percent It's a totally realistic goal, So, now you may say, &quot;Well, if it's not that much money, who cares?&quot; And even worse, &quot;If these institutions divest somebody else is going to buy It's true. The fossil fuel industry is very big, and there will always be So, will the fossil fuel industry How can divestment Well, this brings us to the second thing It's not about money. But it can cause something else; it can cause moral bankruptcy. And you can see an example if you look at the end In the 80's, students in the US succeeded in asking their universities that were doing business And those universities divesting and talking in public led to other institutions following: faith organizations, unions, It spread like a virus. And this public dissociation was, a crucial factor in ending apartheid. And Willem de Klerk, the last president &quot;When the divestment movement began, [F.W. de Klerk, last president This is a political leader acknowledging that once people are ready in order to make a moral statement, they will have their way. Think about the power that gives to us. And there is yet a third thing it's a precondition for change. Remember I said earlier that we don't see Well, here is why. We as a society currently depend on the profits Because we invested in them everywhere. Our wellbeing depends Currently, as it is, if they fall, On the other hand, we know if they remain profitable, Which one is worse? We need to understand that ending this dependency for taking the necessary steps for rebuilding our economy and changing it into one Divestment is not going to solve but it's the first necessary step And the virus is spreading. This is what this powerful has been achieving in the past 18 months; all of these institutions It's started with a lot of Yale being the latest example. Then there was the Norwegian They decided to divest There were over 60 cities, and Munster, being the first German city, where responsibles said, &quot;It was surprisingly easy And then other huge institutions followed: The Rockefeller Foundation, The British Medical Association, a lot of faith organizations And even the Bill who would not call it &quot;divestment,&quot; So, the entire sum adds up to 3.4 trillion US dollars that are committed Now, what about my hometown, Berlin, We are not on the list yet, but we had a meeting And he said that he began just shortly after and he expects it to be done We're ten people in a four million town. Now - (Applause) Getting him to talk to us obviously was a lot of work And I did most of that work because of my family It was very exhausting, It was also a challenge and my husband at times, Thank God, he is here today. So, over the last winter, I was lucky I could do that. I wanted more time during the day and also, I wanted to do something else, I wanted to address my own pension fund - and make them divest. I sent a letter to them last fall, and shortly after, they replied saying that they had decided Sometimes it can be that simple; and of course, the threat to tell but OK. (Laughing) But it is just a first step; I want my pension to be clean, and that's why I want them So I built this website, and I'm mobilizing journalists to send divestment letters to the Versorgungswerk der Presse I hope you will check it out. And if you think Now, there is really no need to go all the way crazy You can actually get things going And that's why I want Look around you - the person next to you might be a member or a customer of the same bank as you. You can get together If you are not sure how to do it, Now, I've lived in Hamburg, If you have money, and then go and tell everyone If we let our financial institutions know that we do not want to benefit we will set in motion a change process. I guarantee: the more we are the better. And my dream is that one day the fossil fuel industry &quot;When the divestment movement began, [The fossil fuel industry] Thank you. (Applause)