Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with This time, And that's exactly It's Athens. Thanks for joining us. About five centuries Athens was the center At a time when Rome it was here of our Western civilization And today, in the midst the vibrant capital of Greece We'll enjoy the magnificence marvel at the wonders savor some tasty Greek and check out the premier Then we'll poke around before escaping to consult an ancient oracle on a classic Greek isle. In the extreme south of Europe Its capital is Athens. From there, we side-trip to the oracle of Delphi, then cruise from Athens' port to the island of Hydra. We'll start up there cultural and literal high point the Acropolis. Like other hilltop sites Athens' Acropolis, was both and of refuge Crowned by the mighty the Acropolis rises a lasting testament to Greece's in the 5th century BC. Grand processions followed which was a ceremonial path and the Acropolis. They'd pass through and up to the religious heart in the Parthenon. The Parthenon was perhaps the finest temple Valiantly battling the acidic it still stands, with the help It was constructed and dedicated Seeing it today but imagine how striking when it was completed, in all its carved and The adjacent erect for its six beautiful maidens Dedicated to Athena this was one religious buildings This, rather than was the culmination At the foot the Ancient Agora, sprawls out This is where, Athenians gathered. While the Acropolis was the center the Agora was the beating heart For some 800 years, starting this was the hub of commercial, Visitors wander the remains of what was shopping mall Exploring the Agora, it's fascinating to ponder the world of Plato and the age which laid for Western thinking logic, and more. The Stoa of Attalos, was rebuilt in modern times With so little of the Agora this reconstruction makes it easier to imagine in its original glory. Crowds would gather to shop, socialize, or listen to the great In fact, Socrates spent preaching the virtues and urging those around him The Temple of Hephaestus, one of the best preserved of all Greek temples, dates from about 400 BC. Like the Parthenon, in the simple Doric style. It housed big, bronze statues of Hephaestus -- and Athena, Greek architecture evolved The capitals, or tops, were both functional While just the tip these are handy indicators, the three main architectural The earliest style, has flat, practical plates In the next order, ionic, the capitals are decorated The final order, popular later on features leafy capitals, boldly decorative, How to remember As the orders evolve, Doric, Corinthian. But for most travelers, is more than Strolling in the footsteps is your best opportunity to commune Like so many great ancient Greece peaked 200 years ago, a small town sitting on lots of history. That 19th-century Athens The Plaka district with a more intimate Athens -- no chaotic traffic, and the best souvenir shopping And for a quick, drop by a corner gyro and souvlaki stand. &quot;Gyro&quot; means &quot;turning,&quot; to the slowly spinning roasted pork or chicken -- shaved as needed. And souvlaki shish kebab style. My favorite -- a gyro pita. Slice up that meat, toss in a little salad... Tsatsiki -- a garlic all wrapped in a handy cone of toasted pita bread. Energized by a tasty gyro, hike to the top and explore the charming literally, &quot;little Anafi.&quot; It was built by people from the tiny They came here to the big city, In this oasis nestled beneath the walls the intensity of Athens Weave through narrow paths and dotted with cats Observe the peaceful rhythm And with a little luck, and be invited in. Or in this case, for a pleasant chat and a cup [ bell ringing ] Athens is getting This elegant walkway is arcing around the back As the sun goes down, it's busy with locals At the end of the walk, prime Acropolis-view real estate to the fine art Sipping a drink here puts you right in the middle In Athens, it seems pass through Syntagma Square. Today, people pour subway station Shady trees make it 200 years ago, Athens was just huddled at the base But when the Greeks won from the Ottoman Turks they chose little but historic This stately square designed to turn the town into a suitable capital The original square a big front yard The country's leading families to be close to the king. These mansions as grand old and museums. In 1843, a riotous crowd demanding a &quot;syntagma,&quot; The king gave a speech granting his people -- invented the concept -- This place has been known or Syntagma Square, Today, the Royal Palace The palace and the Tomb are guarded by the these flamboyant soldiers change at the top of each hour. They're clad in the traditional made famous These mountain fighters in Greece's early-19th-century They claim the soldiers outfits one for each miserable year And don't you forget it. Buoyant after winning freedom the new capital city flourished. Some of those first built in the prevailing still survive today. They stand amid today's bustling metropolis. In the 20th century, and industrialization luring the population of Athens The flow of people into And 4 million people -- roughly one call Athens home. And recently, cleaned up and pedestrianized spiffed up the museums, and invested in one public transit systems. Descend into Athens' and you'll enjoy as efficient With all its and nearly a million Athenians every day, the system Ermou Street, leading away is a thriving pedestrian mall. Just a few years ago, this street was Once again, when it was merchants were upset. Now it's a hit with everyone. The one must-see site is the National Archaeological This extraordinary collection follow the sweep of Greek to 300 AD. A trove of funerary art shows treasures from a society around 1,000 years before You'll see and sheaths... Exquisite golden jewelry... And the delicate reminders of that 15th-century BC This Warrior Vase shows women gathered to a group of warriors sporting fancy armor, hanging from their spears. These Mycenaean soldiers, are a timeless off-to-war scene repeated every generation Ancient Greeks celebrated To them, it was the embodiment All the parts were there -- if not biological -- No individual features. Everything was idealized. In fact, were named meaning &quot;boy,&quot; or &quot;kore,&quot; meaning &quot;girl.&quot; Statues from this age, all had the same weight spread evenly arms rigid at the side, stiff braided hair, almond-shaped eyes, and the same quirky Archaic statues During the Archaic period, but if it decided to walk, stiffly, with no understanding between hips and shoulders. But Greek art evolved The 80-year period from about Was known as the Golden Age the age of Socrates and Athens was During this time, the golden mean In both life and art, Golden Age sculptors shifted placing their statues in a contrapposto pose -- that means relaxed, with hips and weight resting Statues looked Ancient Greek treasures include This stunning bronze statue, depicts the mighty god about to hurl his trident. Once again, we see between stillness But in around 330 BC, by the Macedonians Subjugation by the Macedonians and his son, ushered in what's known The word &quot;Hellenistic&quot; refers after its political conquest. Greek Hellenistic art, like Greek Hellenistic evolved beyond the aesthetics While less balanced it was a more with more exuberant The Horse and Jockey cast in the second is filled with this The high-spirited detail right down to the horse's and the concerned look on the young jockey's face. The evolution of Greek art from stiff to realistic would be echoed by Europe from stiff Gothic to emotional Baroque. A two-hour drive northwest one of the most important sites Wherever you travel, in the big city museums first the historic sites Ancient Delphi, perched high on was not a city. It was the site god of the sun. People would journey here from to seek wisdom from the gods Today, tourists zigzag up to the Temple of Apollo. The path is flanked by of Delphi's famous treasuries, monuments erected by city-states in gratitude Local guides, bring these ancient and mythic So, tell me why this place Zeus wanted to know where He let two eagles fly from of the universe, and this is So he called this the bellybutton Yeah, the omphalos, yeah. This wonderful place became Steves: The resulting Sanctuary reached the height of its power between the 6th The oracle became that no great leader would make without first sending emissaries Penny: There was a priestess and right underneath it, where she was inhaling vapors So she was in trance. So she would babble, &quot;This is wisdom from the gods.&quot; Steves: Because the priests seeking advice on Delphi became the database Because of that, were actually able to astound with their wise, And, there was more to Delphi So, people from all over the Greek-speaking world Correct, and apart from to consult the oracle, was also because, they had here in Delphi, we Yeah, these were concerning music, sport events, So, a balance of things. Yeah. Everything Know thyself -- in everything. So we've got the stadium... Steves: During or &quot;all-Greek,&quot; festivals, Delphi filled its theater, And it packed as many as into its stadium. I like being here with the tourists gone, still ringing And the starting block [ starting gun fires ] As it was in ancient times, Piraeus is still From Piraeus, boats depart for points throughout Cruise ships await and hydrofoils vie It's an exciting springboard We're riding a Flying Dolphin, one of the fleet of speedy to the islands, It's fast but less scenic as I like to hang out in After a 90-minute ride, and we pull into Its main town, is home to about 90% of After the noise of Athens, Hydra's traffic-free tranquility I'm glad I'm packing light Hydra is one of the prettiest Its superb harbor by an amphitheater There's an easy blend of work-a-day commerce, and lazy tourists Donkeys rather the shady awnings and memorable seaside views you've found your Greek isle. Hydra was a Greek famous for its shipbuilders. The harbor, with twin ports housed and protected the fleet of 130 ships, as the Greeks in their early 19th-century The town stretches away a maze of narrow, flanked In the 1960s, the island became a favorite who still draw inspiration One of the island's greatest of cars and motorbikes. Instead, donkeys do just as they have And I suppose for just as long, they've treated children At the top of the town, has been around so long, The island's oldest and most was the hangout of the local These days, feed guests And tonight, the place as our enthusiastic cook So, what are we Cook lamb Grilled shrimps with Calamari Very good. Spanakopita -- Eggplant Steves: And before Leonidas has us all and he starts bringing in of his fabulous dishes. Here we go, the shrimp. Grilled shrimps A fleet of taxis shuttle people We're catching one for a windy and to be dropped off back into town. Hydra is popular with walkers, the network of ancient paths outlying settlements, And in springtime, hikes come A delightful way to cap the day to the village of Kaminia. Its pocket-sized harbor shelters the community's fishing boats. Here, with a glass of ouzo as the sun slowly sinks and boats become you drink to the beauties Perhaps nowhere else does and cultural timeline of Europe while being so vibrant today. I hope you've enjoyed our look the oracle of Delphi, I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, &quot;Antio.&quot;