Let's get started, folks, with another speedrun game. For those watching on YouTube, I am currently in Oslo, Norway, commentating the Chess Kit Cup. So apologies in advance for any audio or video problems, but hopefully things hold up. And we are playing Black against Anik0506. And as is our custom, we will attempt an Accelerated Dragon. And finally, we get an Open Sicilian, which has been rare in the speedrun thus far. We actually have had just a handful of Accelerated Dragons. Let's see how it holds up against a strong player. And this is our first Marozzi bind. This is very exciting. We have not faced the Marozzi bind to date. At a lower level, it's much more common to play Knight to c3, which is sort of the other main move. The Marozzi binds, which is characterized by the pawns on e4 and c4, this is a classic bind. And in general, in chess, a bind is a situation where two or more pawns control a set of key central squares. In this case, they really only control one square, the d5 square. But the danger of this positionally is that it is very, very hard for Black to break free in the center with d5. And so if Black handles this opening improperly, what often happens is that Black's position becomes incredibly cramped. So it's not like White is trying to checkmate us. The Marozzi bind is dangerous from a positional standpoint. Because handled improperly, you get a situation where Black just runs out of ideas and is basically, you know, hanging around on the bottom two or three ranks. So the line that I recommend against the Marozzi is not the most popular, Bg7. It's actually to start with the move, Knight to f6. Now, of course, the appeal of this move is that it hits the e4 pawn straight away. And I think our opponent already responds with a somewhat improper move, f3. Instead, the common response here is Knight b1 to c3, which I'll address separately after the game. And I'll kind of give you the outline of the system that I recommend. So I think we can basically do the same thing against the move, f3. What you want to do here is actually take on d4. So you invite White's queen to recapture. And it may seem at first sight that this can only benefit White. Why is that? Well, it's because the queen on d4 looks unassailable. But what you should realize, what you should realize... Oh, apparently I've lost to this guy. Oh, it's the guy I disconnected against. That's funny. So there was a speedrun game for those watching on YouTube where I got auto-disconnected and then it auto-resigned, and it was against this guy. So I have my chance at revenge. But what you should notice is that once the bishop is deployed to the long diagonal, the queen is going to be under very serious fire, and there's going to be threats of a discovered attack with this knight. But we don't want to go Bishop g7 immediately, because we don't want to give White the opportunity to play e5, because that'll force our knight back to g8, and why should we allow that kind of stuff, right? Although, on the other hand, after Bishop g7, e5, knight g8, White is so poorly developed that that e5 pawn is going to be very hard to hold. So I actually think that we can start with Bishop g7. This is a very tricky move. And my intuition tells me that after e5, knight g8, which is what happens on the board, White is going to be unable to hold onto his center without that center starting to collapse. So who can tell me what is the best way of attacking this e5 pawn using the pin against White's queen? That's kind of the key element of this position, is that pin, which allows us to put pressure on White's center. Of course, it's the obvious d6, which is what we should start with. Bishop f4. Okay, I don't think this is the area I think our opponent is doing what he did in our previous game, which is just playing instantly and, you know, kind of bluffing. So let's think here for a second. Now, of course, we have the option of playing pawn takes pawn. Then a queen trade is forced, but then White will castle queenside with check and develop an initiative in the endgame. In that position, it looks like White's got pretty decent compensation for the pawn. So that's a backup option. Now, of course, we have the option of developing the knight to h6 and trying to castle quickly, but that's a bit anticlimactic because our general strategy is to put pressure on this e5 pawn. Yeah, there is this very interesting move some of you are suggesting, which is to play queen to a5, and the idea is to not only pin the knight, but more to the point, is the fact that it attacks the e5 pawn. It threatens a fork. But after queen a5, White has the very annoying move, queen to d5. And that's a hard move for us to deal with because in the event of the queen trade, White will be threatening knight c7. So after queen a5, queen d5, we can try to drop our queen back to b6. Not a bad option, but again, White has this check on b5, forcing the queens off the board. And again, we're experiencing problems where the knight always threatens to get to the c7 square. So it's actually quite tricky to play this position. I'm also looking at some developing moves here. We don't actually have to make a move to attack this pawn. We can play a simple move like bishop e6. So I actually think that that is the most practical option. Rather than trying to do everything in one move, we can just bring our freaking pieces out. So bishop e6 is possible. And then in the event that White castles queen side, then we can play pawn takes e5. And in contrast to the immediate pawn takes e5, notice that our rook is going to be protecting our queen. So this is the kind of move which I think a lot of lower-ranked players would find it very difficult to make because we're not attacking e5. We're not doing what one might think we have to do. And instead, we're just kind of keeping the tension and making a regular developing move. And I actually can't believe our opponent is thinking. Clearly, I'm doing something right then. I'm also not saying that it's the best move. It might not be the best move. Now, you might also wonder, well, wait a second. Why are we not putting our bishop on the quote-unquote more aggressive f5 square? Now, bishop f5 does not prevent long castles because by rule, it's the king that cannot cross a defended square. The rook is allowed to cross a defended square. So in response to bishop f5, White could indeed castle queen side. What I like about bishop e6, though, is that it does pressure the c4 pawn, which could become important later. And the second thing it does is it controls the d5 square, which is a rather annoying jumping off point for White's knight in certain variations. So I think that we're in pretty good shape here. In retrospect, maybe it was not the best idea to allow e5. The classic treatment is to play d6 in order to prevent e5. So after knight c3, which is the main move, after takes takes, you're supposed to play d6 there. It's actually very important in that particular version to not allow e5. The difference here is that White didn't use this move to develop a piece. So I concluded that we can get away with allowing e5. So what are we threatening? Okay, queen e4. That's a good move. It's a great move. Now, we can start to play tactically here, and I have a very exciting idea. Now, we shouldn't fall asleep because what is the point of queen e4? Well, it defends b7, so some of you might be thinking, oh, well, let's defend the pawn with something like rook b8. Well, that would be a very, very bad move because White is now able to take on d6. Why does that favor White? Because you might say, oh, but doesn't that open up our bishop? Well, if you look more carefully after ed, ed, the cons outweigh the pros because that d6 pawn becomes an incredibly vulnerable weakness, and White can castle queenside there, and immediately the d6 pawn collapses, and our king is going to stay stranded in the center. So let's not touch that with a 10-foot pole, which gives us essentially one option. I don't like queen b6 here because that actually invites White to castle queenside, right? It invites White to do what he wants to do anyway. So I actually think we have to take on e5 and resolve the tension in the center. That's going to help us develop our kingside more quickly. Bishop takes e5. Now, we've got two options. The first is the sort of mundane option, which equalizes. The second is the Naroditsky approach, and it's very much in the spirit of the accelerated dragon. It might be dubious subjectively, but I think we can make it work. So the simple option is to trade on e5 and then play knight g8 to f6, and then to castle kingside, and that position is, I think, approximately equal. The second option, let's see who can come up with it. What else is available to us in this position? Actually, we have a third option, which might be even better. Yeah, a lot of you guys are finding it. It's not f5 because f5 is a very weakening move. That would be one movitis. The queen just drops back, and what have we achieved, right? We've merely deprived this bishop of a very important defender. In the same spirit, the move that I missed initially was bishop to f5. Bishop to f5. Oh, but white's got a sick tactic there. Oh my gosh. White can take on b7 there, and after bishop takes bishop, drop the queen back to b5 and then win the bishop back on e5 with an extra pawn. Man, I am not getting lucky in this speedrun. Now, we can go for that line consciously because it accelerates our development, but in the same spirit, we can also simply play knight f6, queen takes b7 in castle kingside and try to develop an advantage and then somehow punish white for keeping the king in the center. So let me think about which option is better. Yeah, it feels like I did something wrong here. I have been getting very consistently outplayed in this speedrun in the last couple of games, it seems, but let's not panic. It might be necessary for us to play bishop takes e5, queen takes e5, and knight f6. And this is something that constitutes an important skill at a higher level as well, which is to basically admit, yeah, it's not that I messed up, I don't think I messed up seriously, but I didn't want to go for this line initially because it's boring and because giving away your fianchettoed bishop can be a problem. Now, it should be pointed out that if we compare the placement of the remaining bishops, our bishop is definitely better than its counterpart. And the reason I say that is because of this c4 pawn, which is really blunting this bishop on f1. On the other hand, white's got an active queen, white's got slightly better control of the center, so this pawn can be considered both a strength and a weakness, which is very common at a higher level. And of course, also, this pawn on f3 is not, the pawn itself is not a weakness, of course, as I've pointed out many times, when there's a pawn like this on f3 or on f4, you always have this idea of playing queen to b6, and in general, exploiting this diagonal when white casts a short h4. Our opponent kind of going for the kill here. I'm not scared of this move because white doesn't have any development here, so this just cannot work from a perspective of chess principles. But we should take this idea seriously. We've got, again, several options. We could play h5, which would be the move that we play if we respect our opponent's idea. Alternatively, we could just castle in white's face and allow h5. It's not entirely a paper tiger. Like, this could get very dangerous for us, but I'm just very scared. I mean, it's hard to refute our opponent's play. We could then just play queen to d6 and trade queens and try to win the endgame. That would be an option. Actually, I don't dislike that option. Let's start by castling, so let's start by completing our development. There's no way that h5 directly leads to checkmate. I called BS on that. Okay, so what are our options here? Well, we can play knight takes h5, and that's a hard move to evaluate. Definitely we don't get mated right away after knight takes h5. What worries me about that move is the long-term problems along the h file, but I did just come up with a cool defensive idea. So what is white likely to do after knight takes h5? Well, I think the obvious move there is g4, but after g4, we drop our knight back to f6, and we ask, well, what has white really achieved from sacrificing that pawn? The queen could then drop back to h2, but the h7 pawn would be very well protected by our knight, and that in general would not be a scary type of idea. I think that we should call BS on this and take this pawn fearlessly. I don't see a clear follow-up for white. I just don't see it. Maybe something exists, but I do not see it. Well, if he takes the knight, then we take back, and I don't see a follow-up there either. I don't think there's checkmate. Our opponent is probably going to opt for something like that that would be consistent with what he's been doing, but I'm kind of calling the bluff here. Yeah, so maybe there's some sort of hidden tactic. I don't rule that out at all. Again, entirely possible that there's some perpetual there or there's some line that leads to a strong attack, but our opponent doesn't go for it, and this was my idea. This is the move that initially caused me to rule out knight takes h5, but I think there's a brilliant defensive move in this position. How do you find this defensive move? Well, you should always have a wish list in mind, and I've talked about this before. What are the items that you want to achieve to further the causes of your position? I think the top item on the wish list, and this should be obvious to everybody, is a queen trade. If we can trade queens, then we're simply up a pawn in the endgame. The moment you tell yourself that this move should become maybe not obvious, but you should at least be on your radar, and that's queen d8 to b8, which is not hard to see conceptually. There's different types of difficulty in chess. There's conceptual difficulty where a move might be easy to see, but it might be hard to understand why it's good. This is the kind of move that when it's played, everybody says, ah, well, of course, queen b8, but it can be hard to see geometrically because you don't make this move often, and a lot of you might have been tempted by a move like queen to b6, which I think would have been incredibly dangerous. The additional benefit of this move is that if white declines the queen trade with queen to g5, how should we proceed in that position? This is the sort of second part of our idea, insisting on your concept. Queen g3, exactly, queen g3. Now, queen f4 would be a blunder there because of rook takes h5, grabbing the knight and protecting the queen at the same time, a very, very common type of blunder. But in the same vein, queen g5, queen g3 check forces the queen, and after our knight gets to g3, don't stop calculating there. Notice that white experiences problems with this pawn on c4 because we will be then threatening to take on f1 and take on c4 with two extra pawns. Now you might say, well, white can move rook h4 in that position. That's some high-level calculation, but you don't have to calculate any further because we know for a fact that we are up a pawn and we're chilling in that position. So if white plays rook h5 now, then we will take back on h5. White has a check on g5, but after king h8, I don't see a follow-up, and it occurs to me now that white did have a draw in the previous position. White could have drawn the game here by force with a very, very advanced tactical concept, which I'll show you after the game, but it did in fact start with rook takes h5. So at this point, I think we're very much in control of the game. And that is obviously a good sign. Now that doesn't mean we've won. We're just up a pawn. But we're up a pawn, and we still have the advantage of our superior bishop. Our knight on h5 suddenly becomes an asset rather than a deficiency because it's threatening to jump onto one of these weak dark squares, and it's just nicely played. I mean, it could come back to f6 at any time and kind of rejoin society, but it's doing well on this little island here. And our bishop is also doing a great job because it's taking the sting out of the move knight to d5, simply bishop takes d5. So again, to convert such endgames, which is one of the hardest skills in chess, when you should never feel bad when you fail to convert an endgame like this, right, where you're, let's say, up a pawn, because it's genuinely very, very difficult, and white has some assets too. I mean, his pieces are active. He's got a pawn majority. It's just we've got an extra pawn on the other side of the board. So this requires tremendous precision. I'm going to accelerate a little bit here because we're kind of low on time. Broadly speaking, of course, we want to trade pieces, right? That's a pretty straightforward statement. We want to trade pieces. If we can get all of the rooks off the board, I think it'll be easier for us to sort of convert our four-on-two pawn majority on the king side. So there's a couple of ideas here. We can throw the knight onto g3. That's one option. But then white will play bishop d3. The knight could potentially be maneuvered back to f5, but I'm not totally convinced that the trade of bishop for knight is positive for us. I think that we should make a less committal move and just play rook fd8. I think we should keep our trump cards in our pocket and keep the knight on h5, and we should get a pair of rooks off the board. Now the downside of this approach is that we've given up the d-file. But if you look more carefully, this bishop is really a hero because it's holding this penetration square on d7. Yeah, white has the d-file, but I don't think that white has a lot that he can gain from the control over the d-file. Now we can do a couple of different things. In general, our opponent's plan is probably to start pushing his pawn majority with something like c5. So a move that occurs to me as a kind of prophylactic measure is to play b6 and try to halt the progress of the pawn. Alternatively, rook c8 comes to mind, but that's a little bit passive. We can still play knight g3. Possibly white will play bishop d3 there, and maybe in that position we can already consider knight f5. Although, again, I'm not totally sure who benefits with that trade. I think it might be us, though. Yeah, I'm inclined to play knight g3. I think now's the time to reap the rewards of our knight, and I think that we should play knight f5 and essentially ask white a question. Okay, our opponent is answering questions very quickly in this game. We have a bishop versus knight position. What changed my mind is that we've traded a pair of rooks. I think with only one pair of rooks on the board, white's rook and knight look very impressive, but again, all that white can really do here is pose one-move threats, and that's what our opponent is doing. Obviously, we drop our bishop back to e6. There's no other squares, and knight d5. Okay, so that asks us a big question. Do we want to trade bishop for knight? And your answer should not just be yes uncritically because after bishop takes knight, rook takes bishop, what's the complicating factor in that rook endgame? Well, it's the fact that white is infiltrating the 7th rank by force, which is a big deal. But upon closer examination, I think that we can actually keep the rook away from the 7th rank. How? By playing what move? King f8 there. And if white still drops the rook on the 7th rank, what's our strategy there? It's a defensive strategy. So bishop takes d5, rook takes d5, king f8, rook d7. We go king e8, rook c7, king d8, and we drive the rook out of that 7th rank, and that should already be winning. So I think we should take. Maybe our opponent will take back. No, okay. And we should go king f8. Now, more broadly, what we want to do is go king e8 and then trade the rooks. And pawn endgames are going to be winning most of them. Although if you've watched my pawn endgame videos, you will know that there is a complicating factor on the king side, unfortunately. What is it? What can white do to try to make it difficult for us to exploit our pawn majority? What move can white potentially make at some point? Yeah, so white can do what's called the deep freeze, and that's where one pawn stops two or more pawns from advancing. And this is the most common type of deep freeze, a very advanced move, g5, not easy to make, because you have to understand why you're making it. You're making it to halt the progress of the h-pawn. h5 then, of course, meets with en passant. So even some of those pawn endgames, and I have some examples, you could have a pawn endgame where you're up to even two or even three pawns, but because there's a deep freeze situation, the pawn majority on the other flank decides the game. So we shouldn't just uncritically go for that rook endgame. Now, deep freezes can be fought, right? This g5 pawn could be contested with a timely f6, but then white could play f4. So we'll have to calculate pawn endgames concretely. So given the opportunity, we might actually want to play h6, so that if white ever plays g5, well, we take the sting out of it, and we can actually play that now, but we could also go king e8. So what's more important? Well, it's hard to say. That requires some calculation over everything, as Canty says. Now, my temptation is to bring our king into the game. Yeah, I think we should do that. I think we should start with king e8. And I'm really not sure. Okay, now we can again play h6 and hold off the pawn majority. We could play e6 and chase the rook away. That's an interesting option. We could play rook d8, but again, I'm not convinced that that pawn endgame is winning because of this g5 idea, which is quite annoying. So definitely we shouldn't hurry. I think we should play h6, but oh, but then we can go rook d1 and rook h1. Wow. That's nuts. So maybe f6 is a better way to do the same thing. Maybe f6 is an interesting approach here. Man, this is not easy. e6 is possible as well. Rook d1, king e7, rook h1, rook h5, and white de-freezes us again. But then we play e5. No, I think that one's winning. Oh, so e6 is a very good-looking move. Yeah, I think we should go e6 and just get this rook off of d5. This also forces white to kind of decide where he wants to keep the rook because if he keeps it on the fifth rank, then potentially he gives us the d-file. Well, asking questions like these is always a good idea. Now, I have a higher-level plan in mind. Here's the ideal scenario. Again, it's the sort of wishlist method where you say, okay, what do I want to achieve in the ideal scenario? Well, ideally, we want one of two things. Either we want a pawn endgame where we don't have a deep freeze situation, so in some way we've prevented g5. That would be winning because the four-on-two-pawn majority will beat the three-on-two-pawn majority on the other side. But the second wishlist item is a situation where we create a passed h-pawn and get this b8 rook over to h8. That would basically end the game right away. Those types of situations are almost always winning in rook endgames, and I'll show you kind of a stock example of that after the game. There's a famous classical game that really shows the extent to which that situation often decides the game in a rook endgame. So, after rook to d1, you would be forgiven for thinking let's play h5, let's go, let's create the passer, but if you calculate after g8, g8, rook h1, the rook can't jump over the king. That is why after rook d1 we have to go king e7. If, after that, white plays rook h1 and hits the h7 pawn, we are just in time to play rook to h8, and what do we threaten after we play rook h8? And what do you think white should do in response to that? Just testing your understanding. Okay, rook b5. The move there was, of course, h5. Right, so once we play rook h8, we're ready to play h5. Our opponent is taking a fundamentally different approach. He is trying to hold off the move h5, and I think this is the best move. Okay, so let's think. Again, we have options. I think here we should take the opportunity to play h6. This is the time that we should play h6. The reason why is that if instead you play a move like king to d7, and maybe we should have played a6. Now that I think about it, yeah, maybe a6 is better, but it doesn't really matter. The thing is, white was threatening to play g5 there. Now I think we're in great shape, but we have to be extremely precise. This guy is wildly, wildly underrated. Let's see. I think that we should go king e7, but I'm not sure. Well, we have to bring our king up some way, because if we give a check on d8, we simply help white's king get closer to our side of the territory. So the ultimate choice here is between king d7 and king e7, and my intuition tells me that we should stay a little bit closer to our kingside pawns. Now we're very, very close to being able to create a passer, either with h5, and in order to be able to play h5, we're going to have to kick this rook off the 5th rank, so in our pocket, we have this move, a6, which we can throw in essentially when we're ready to play h5, which is now. But white is very active here, so there are some complicating factors. The king is super active. Of course, the rook is pressuring b7, and we want to be careful about playing b6. I mean, maybe that was the best move, and actually that was the best move, wasn't it? Should have played b6, simply. For some reason, I thought c5 was a problem, but it's not, because bc is a check. It's late. I'm missing some details in this endgame, but I still think we're winning. Yeah, but our opponent, this guy is incredibly sharp. Incredibly sharp. He punishes us for not playing b6. But it's not the end of the world. Far from the end of the world. We have a choice here, because c6 is not a serious threat, actually. c6 is not a threat at all. So we have options. We can play f6, which is an ugly looking move. But the benefit of f6, why would we do that? Well, it would be to prevent white's king from infiltrating e5. We can also play Rd8, Rd7, and essentially shift the positioning of our rook, so that in addition to defending b7, it is also doing something productive and keeping white's king away. I think there are multiple ways to win here. I really like the look of Rd8 and Rd7. I also like the look of h5. Basically not procrastinating. But then if our rook gets stuck here, that might be an issue. Because eventually we'll need to go Kd7, Kc6 to get that rook behind the pawn. So man, this is really hard. Okay, let's go Rd8 check. This is what my intuition tells me to do. h5 might be committing a little too early, I agree. But these are... Hopefully if you're newer to chess, you're beginning to see through the lens of this endgame why rook endgames are considered so complex and hard to learn. It's because in the middlegame, the position, you have these things that you can hold onto to make sense of the position. In rook endgames, there's always 5 or 7 candidate moves and all of them look reasonable and all of them adhere to different plans. Like, do you start by creating a passer? Do you improve the position of the rook? Do you improve your pawn structure on the kingside? There's so many things that you can do and all of them seem approximately equivalent. And very often there's only one winning path. So you're essentially relying in most cases purely on your intuition and on a little bit of calculation. And most of the calculation that you do in rook endgames involves figuring out who wins so a pawn endgame, that's called liquidation and it's sometimes calculating pawn races and concrete things like that. So, rook endgames are incredibly hard almost nobody can play them without mistakes. Magnus, definitely the best rook endgame player of all time. Capablanca was well known for that as well. So it's very very hard to play without blundering. I'll give you some recommendations on endgames after the game, but here I have to focus because two and a half minutes is not a lot of time. King e4, best move. Okay, so we could play f5 check. See, again, we could play this move or we could not play this move. I don't think there's a hurry to play f5 because we could always play it on the next move. Again, white cannot deep freeze us anymore because we played this move, h6. So let's see what happens. We played this move, h6. So, broadly, our plan is now to exploit our pawn majority, f4. So white is trying to go g5 here so we shouldn't fall asleep. Although g5 could be met with h5, but I still don't like that scenario because then our remaining three pawns are going to be essentially immobilized. So I like the look of f5 check, but then white takes it, we take back. White drops back because white does get mated after king e5, rook d5. And then we can go king f6 and we've made some progress and we're ready to push the h-pawn. And that's one option. We can also start with h5 or we could play king f6 and use our king to kind of shield ourselves from these pawns. But king f6 is quite unwieldy because we essentially put our king in front of our own pawns. Let's break through with f5. I think this is our chance to do it. Our opponent finding all the tricky lines here. Let's take with the g-pawn. Of course, king e5, rook d5 is checkmate, so white has to drop back. And then I think we need to make one more move before we are ready to start pushing the h-pawn. This might be a draw. I mean, we're basically playing at this point for two results, which is really a pleasant feeling. But still, if white defends this accurately, I think he should be able to draw this. Yeah, king f6. And king f6 is a pretty intuitive move for experienced endgame players. There are several ideas of this move. One of them is finally to open up the pathway for the rook to drop to h7, which is the best square on the board. This is why, you know, your rook can make or break your endgame experience, because on a square like h7 it's both attacking and defending at the same time. The second thing that we should consider doing is pushing while we have a chance. Because here's the thing. After h5, king f3, h4, our pawn is itself cutting off white's king from its ability to stop that pawn by stepping in front of it. So white could go king g2, rook h7, king h3. But then perhaps we create a second pass pawn with e5. So we want to make this move e5, but we want to do it at a strategic moment. So I think we should start by pushing h5, drive this pawn up as far as it'll go, put the rook behind it, or maybe play e5 on the next move or something like that. But e5 is not going anywhere for the time being. I think white's best move, and this is an incredibly advanced move, is actually king f2. Okay. Let's think about this. h4, king g2, g3. There's so much calculation to do here. h4, king g2, e5, kxdx, e3, cut him off. I should be winning here. Should be winning here. I think we should go h4. He's probably going to go king g2. And then I think we should go e5. I think that's the right moment to play e5. Now he goes rook h3. That should be a mistake. Now we have a check on d2 here. Oh, but he's out-calculated me. We can also go rook h7 by the way, which is a backup option. Rook d2, king e3, takes b2, rook takes there, there, there, there. That might be a draw actually. So I think man, I missed that detail there that I'll show you after the game. Let's go rook h7. Let's go rook h7. And try to put the rook behind the pawn. I mean, that's the obvious move. Rook h7 is obvious. Of course, there was also rook d2 check, which is what I was relying on. I don't think it works. Again, I'm making these judgments fully intuitively. Yeah, I don't know. This guy is 24-20. I mean, I would say he's IM strength or maybe FM strength. I mean, I'm not playing perfectly, but yeah, he's very, very strong. But legit. I mean, I think he is legit. I just think he's extremely underrated. No, I won't flag. I mean, I might not win this game, but I won't flag. And now we play e5. So again, this was the last chance for us to get on the train. Because if white had been able to go king d4, then we wouldn't have been able to play e5. So we can't miss that opportunity. It should be winning for black. I mean, definitely the position is winning. Can I convert it with a minute on my clock? Now, what is it that we want to achieve here? Well, what we want to achieve broadly is we want to force this rook to move. Because every time we force the rook to move, our pawn is able to advance one square further and tie the rook down even further. Ultimately, we want a situation where the pawn reaches h2 and white's rook is relegated to h1. When that scenario occurs, we can basically use that pawn as a bargaining chip, give it away, but give it away in order to transition to a pawn endgame. This is the standard technique for winning such positions, where the rook is behind the pawn. And then, in the resulting scenario, white's king is going to be, you know, in timber 2, and we're going to converge on these three pawns with our own king. Sounds very complicated, but I'll show you. Once I start showing you this technique after the game, you'll understand immediately what I'm talking about. Now, what are the complicating factors here? Well, the issue is that white is not obliged to move the rook from h3. White has other moves. White is not in zugzwang, in other words. White has two types of moves that he can make. White can try to preemptively start pushing the pawns, which is, I think, the most challenging, and of course our opponent plays it. Now we have to decide whether we're slowing white down or whether we're pushing. And these are very hard decisions to make. They require tremendous calculation. So there's Kd5 there, there. It's a weird construction, but in my view, what we need... Okay, let's go Kd5. Let's go Kd5. Of course, it is possible. And now Rh5. This is the construction that I came up with. This actually might be a genius idea. Look at this rook. It's doing three things. It's guarding h4 and f5, and it's preventing white's king from infiltrating further. So it's keeping the king at bay, and it's keeping the rook at bay indirectly, because any time the rook moves, our pawn moves forward. But I'm delegating to my king a very important responsibility. I'm basically leaving the king on its own, and our king's job is going to be twofold. I mean, first of all, it not only has to keep white's pawn majority restrained. That's not enough. Remember our ultimate goal here, which is to essentially induce Zugzwang and force white to move this rook away from h3 so that we can start pushing our h-pawn. How are we going to induce that scenario? We're going to basically try to freeze white's pawn majority. And we've already come very, very close to achieving that, because b5 is impossible, because if king takes c5. So white can push the a-pawn, but we can basically wait it out. After a4, we can play a6. And then if white plays a5, then he basically deep freezes his own pawn majority, and then we've clearly succeeded, right? So the only other option is for white to drop the king back. Clearly that signifies progress, and then we can use our own king to infiltrate and start posing threats against white's pawn majority. White's ability to defend those pawns is restrained greatly by the fact that his rook can't move. So here I think it's important not to play king c4, but to basically wait it out with the move a6. And only when white plays a4 do we infiltrate with the king. What was the downside? Okay, we need to focus. I don't see it. King c4, d7, h3, b7, h2 wins. I think our opponent is trying to bluff it. Oh! But now I think we need to, okay, so how do we do this? a5 is possible. a5 might be winning on the spot here. Let me calculate. a5, b8, king takes c5, king e5, king b5, king d6, king takes a5, king c7, rook h7. Oh! Alternatively, we can play king d4 first. We can play king d4 first and only when white plays king f3 do we play a5. That is possible. But I don't think it's necessary. a5, c6, bc, ba, king b5. I think we should play a5 here. I mean, this is basically tempo for tempo. It might be a draw, but if white draws this, listen, I'm happy to tip my hat because I am doing everything within my power for us to win this game. Now the basic idea here to understand is that again, any time white's rook moves, unless white moves away with a check, then we automatically push h3. And because of the placement of white's king, we've created a situation where the king is incapable of getting behind the pawn. It's always going to be one tempo short. So we don't have to worry about a scenario where white moves the rook away and then gets the king to h2 because that's not possible mathematically. If the rook moves, we go h3, king g3, h2, and the pawn squeezes through. It's also very important for us to keep this b7 pawn alive at all costs. This is a harder point to understand. Now why do I say that? Because if white is able to liquidate all of the queenside pawns, then our kingside pawns, even if there's two of them, might not be enough for us to win because our king presumably would be a little bit too far away from the kingside. That would still be very close, but that might conceivably be a draw. Now this is a very interesting game, actually. I think this is going to be a worthy speedrun game after a long absence, but our work is not done. I'm 20 seconds. Got to play fast here. But really, you should notice how incredibly powerful this rook is on h5. It's doing everything. And so if we win this game, then a big part of it would have been our ability to find good squares for the rook at the right time. So what is our next move? Especially when you're in time pressure, you should have a roadmap in mind. So against a waiting move like Ke3, what's our next move going to be? Well, it's probably going to be Kb5. If white plays a4, then of course we play Kb4. So our next step is to eliminate the a5 pawn. That's the low-hanging fruit. Now what's crazy is that white could say, okay, I'm going to give up the a5 pawn, and white's h3 rook is also on a very good spot because it's defending the other a pawn, making it hard for us to win it, and it's essentially keeping black's king at bay and not allowing us to infiltrate through the backside. So we're going to have to do some maneuvering there and figure out a way to maybe sacrifice one of these pawns in order to win the a pawn. That's all going to be really tough in time pressure, but white is now down to two and a half minutes, so finally our opponent is feeling the heat on the clock here. Ke5, which is exactly what I expected. Oh! Our opponent found a brilliant idea. This might draw. Kb5. But maybe not. So we do what we have to do. There's Kf6. My goodness, this guy. Kf6 and Kg6 like this. The thing is, white will win one of the kingside pawns, but he might not be in time. No, he goes a6. Okay, wait. What do we take with? Believe it or not, I'm very much inclined to take with the king because in general, in such positions, you want to have the b pawn, the corner pawn, is often a serious weakness. On the other hand, Ba might be good because then we'll be able to play Ka4, but okay, I think he's collapsing here. But he's making me prove it on the clock. Okay, Ka5. Let's advance our king. Now, our next target position is to play b5 and Ka4. Our opponent misses the best defense there, which was Kf6. Now again, the golden rule of this endgame is that we're keeping our king specifically on the a file so that the rook is unable to move away with check. That's the thing. Our next move is likely to be b5. Why are we advancing the pawn? Well, we're preparing for a scenario that I'm kind of predicting will eventually come, which is a scenario in which these pawns are not likely to win the game because they're being restrained. In order to win the game, we will ultimately have to win the a3 pawn. To win the a3 pawn, we might have to part ways with either the f pawn or the h pawn. We're going to have to do it very strategically, not just randomly. The first step in anything is to get our king to a4 so that it's making contact with this pawn. Then the second logical step is to shift the b pawn up to b5, preparing for the scenario when we win the a3 pawn because then this pawn is going to be closer to promotion. You also do this in a lot of pawn endgames, and it's a very, very important technique. There we go. There's b5. There's b5. We might have just gotten zooged. King f4 weren't zooged. I should have played b6. That would have been more subtle. But I think we'll figure it out here. It's winning. It's winning. I think I know how, and it's going to be very close. No, I'll show you. I figured out a way. I think I figured out the win. The thing is, with increment, we have to be very careful because if we mess it up, white will have enough time to hold. But I think I was able to figure out the win here. Of course, he plays it. Now we have to sack the pawn. Now we have to sack the pawn. Now here, here, here, here. That might be a draw. We can also go rook e8 and try to cut the king off. That's the thing. We have to cut this king off and prevent it from reaching the queenside. So maybe this idea comes through. That's to sit. Yeah, let's go rook e8. Let's go rook e8. No, definitely not b4. That would be the worst move in the position. Again, what I've predicted has come true. We have to cling to this pawn at all costs. If we lose the b pawn, we draw the game. Now if white takes h4, this is an easy win because it's basically a Lucina position. This is an easy win. This was already lost because eventually we would have gotten to that pawn. Now it's quite easy. We just push our pawn and this is like a standard Lucina. You don't even need the Lucina position here because the king is so far away from the pawn the Lucina is required when the king is two files closer. When the king is this cut off, you can win this in a million different ways. The easiest, notice what I'm doing here. I'm bringing the pawn as close as it's possible to the king. Now where newer players struggle is they always try to move away from the pawn because intuitively you might say, well, I don't want to step in front of the pawn because I don't want to block its path to the promotion square. The problem is that if you play king to d2 here, white can keep checking you and white can shift the rook back to the b file and constantly attack this pawn. That's a drawing technique in a lot of end games. You do step in front of the pawn but you do it so that the pawn can reach the king rank. And now the final stage of the conversion process. Again, you don't need to build a bridge or anything like that. There's a much simpler way to win the game when the king is this cut off. Who knows what the easiest technique to winning is to finish it off. Rook e2, yeah, it's possible, but even simpler is actually just to play rook to a8 and you can also play rook to c8. It's the same exact concept and that's it. Now you move the king over to a1 and the reason you needed that move was to prevent this check on a5 which would have sent our king right back to b1. As it stands, white's king is too far away. We promote to a queen and we win the game. That was a tough one. That was a tough one. A lot of stages to that game and I definitely had my sloppy moments but I thought I played the end game very well. Of course, the computer is probably going to laugh at me. I'm curious about the accuracy. I want to be laughed at. Laughed at? Yeah, there's a lot to talk about. A lot we have to unpack here. 90.5 to 86.1. High level game. I will be using stockfish on my chess base for some analysis. I'm just going to copy this game over to chess base. I also use that for opening analysis. Alright. Let's delve right in. The Marozzi bind characterized by the move c4. Named after Orzeza Marozzi, was a Hungarian player. I think lived in the 19th century, maybe to the early 20th. Was a very strong player but really was the first to develop this line. I would say at a grandmaster level, the Marozzi bind is the biggest reason why the accelerated dragon isn't more popular. Now, there are two reasons why at lower levels, this is not a particularly scary line. The first is that it requires white to play positionally. Very positionally. The second is that black has a lot of tricky responses to the Marozzi which most players really under 2200 or so do not know. If white doesn't know them, then white's center can collapse. White is biting off a very big part of the cake. If white does not develop very artfully, many is the scenario where you develop your pieces and white just totally collapses in the center. In fact, this is what happens in most games featuring intermediate players where black is well-versed in tricky accelerated lines. To get to the point, knight f6 is tricky and we've already played this once, I think. In that game, our opponent immediately fell into their first trap which is to take on c6 and to play e5. This is a very tempting move but any time you have this situation you have to, of course, remember that we have queen a5 check. Don't forget this trap. This is super important. Of course, we pick up the pawn on e5 and here black is easily a healthy pawn up and then we go bishop g7, we castle and we can easily advance d5. The queen can always drop back to this envelope on c7. It's also common in the Scandi. So we can chill on e5 but then when white plays for instance, rook e1, we don't have to but an easy way to guarantee safety is to play queen c7. So that doesn't work. Now if white takes and then goes knight c3, then, as I've explained many times before, this trade favors black. This c6 pawn is now a great positional asset because it's holding this knight at bay and we've got this semi-open b-file and this is just a very comfortable position for black as well. So the main move here is knight to c3. f3 I think is already a serious inaccuracy and I will check the best way to fight against it. I've never analyzed f3 so maybe knight takes d4 is an inaccuracy in response. So knight c3, my recommended line, is knight takes d4, queen takes d4. Now not bishop g7 because here e5 is very dangerous but instead you have to remember to play d6. Super, super tricky sideline. Now, to explain why it's a tricky sideline, first of all the sort of important thing to understand is that e5 is no longer dangerous because after we take on e5, white can take on d8. Yes, we lose castling rights but the reality is that white does not garner sufficient compensation for the pawn. And you should remember in such positions, I know I make fun of that phrase, I'm going to verify this with the engine. What a lot of people are afraid of in these types of situations is let's say a move like bishop to e3 and white's going to castle queenside and it's going to be a check. But that's just not that dangerous. That engine move here in fact is just to ignore everything and hit the bishop with knight g4. And big deal, white castles queenside, you block with the bishop. Yeah, you're self-pinning but white has no way to put pressure on this bishop. You might say, well, what about this move threatening bishop b5? Again, you should not be afraid, particularly at this level, of one-move threats. They're not dangerous. After knight takes e3, f takes e3, the engine finds a brilliant way to defend against the threat. Bishop h6 is possible, and who can tell me, if you're watching on YouTube, pause and figure this out, why does bishop b5 not win a piece? Easy but very pretty. What's America Marty Wolfman for the subs? Yeah, bishop takes e3, check. The bishop drops back to d4 and intercepts the rook. Incredible. And black emerges with two extra pawns. Now apparently this position is still equal, but white has to play this like an engine. Practically speaking, I think black is doing great here. The more common move is going to be queen takes e5, but again, obviously this is very good for black because the center has opened. White's got weaknesses on the d-file. The queen is now very vulnerable, and our next move is going to be castle. You can basically play this without analysis, but to give you a sample line, and there's no question that queen takes queen is a better move than queen takes e5. If white plays bishop e2, we castle. White castles, and one important point about playing these types of accelerated positions as we did in the game is not to rush to try to give a discovered attack to the queen. A lot of you might be tempted by a move like knight g4. Again, this is one moveitis. A move is not strong because it poses a threat. In fact, it helps the queen get back to a safer square, and if you get too obsessed with this, you're going to end up paying the price for these myopic moves. Instead, in the spirit of what we did in the game, the best move is bishop to e6. Again, just developing the bishop, and actually this now poses a threat of a discovered attack. So if white sleeps through this moment, then we have this very powerful move, knight to d5, and we're able to take on c3, or even to garner the bishop pair with knight takes e3. If white plays rook d1, again, it's just a one-move threat. We can still play knight d5, which is a brazen-looking move, but we hit the queen, and the point is that after queen g3, we can solve our problems tactically with knight takes knight, and if white plays rook takes d8, then knight takes c2 check picks up the queen and then picks up the rook. Of course, white has to play bc, and we develop the queen to a5, and black is much better. So you can dig around here on your own if you want a fuller understanding. You're not going to face the movie 5 that often, though. White has many setups here, and I could spend an hour just talking about the theory of this line. But let me show you what happens in most games at sort of the lower levels. I can check Leech S for the most common move. But most people, they basically just develop their pieces. They play bishop e2. When I faced this line with white for the first time, this is also what I did. Bishop e2 and bishop e3 is a super common setup. It's not bad. I mean, it's one of the main lines, but it's not the most ambitious either. Now after castles, we reach the first important moment. A lot of people castle here. Black is already better. What should black do, who can tell me, after white castles? You should not be looking for a tactic here. You should be looking for a positionally improving trade. Not Nd7. Not b6. So I've scared you away from delivering discovered attacks, but here you do have a good discovered attack, Ng4. Why? Well, because we're able to pick off the bishop. Why does that benefit black? Well, it benefits black pretty intuitively, because now we have this uncontested dark-squared bishop, and look at how weak white's dark-squared bishops are. Hopefully you're already gaining enough of an understanding to know what the next move is likely to be. Where does the bishop on c8 belong? Well, it belongs on e6, hitting the c4-pawn. Now let's say that white plays a move like b3. Well, now we have actually a very powerful move, Qb6, which is another sexy idea. Very sexy idea. And in the event of the queen trade, we open up the a-file, and we have an attack on c3. Let's say white defends. Now we can play even the move b5, which really shows you the power of the accelerated when it fires on all cylinders. Of course, it's a pretty cooperative line, but here white can essentially resign, because he's losing material. Right, so it's this power of the bishops, and definitely white has to move the queen for that reason, so Qd2 is the main move, and the best move. You know, once you have your feet under you, the moves become quite easy. Here you play Bb6, and develop your bishop. And most people in this position, of course, they castle kings. If white analyzes this with an engine, then he can potentially play better. Now there are several moves in this position that you can try, but the main move is Qa5. You basically bring the queen out, and put more pressure on white's queen side. And I claim that this position is very very hard to play for white, if he's not very well versed in the theory. So a couple of examples to illustrate how dangerous this can be. A lot of people get very tempted by this tactic, Nd5, which is a common tactic, but it doesn't work here, because after the take, trade on d2. White takes on e7, intermezzo, but the line doesn't end here. Black plays Nxc4, and develops a huge initiative. The knight is stranded, everything's hanging, this is better for black. So that's one line to remember. Now, if white plays b3, because a lot of people are tempted to reinforce the c4 pawn, b3 is a good move. And black has a couple of options here, but the best is to play Rf to c8. Again, let's say white plays a move like f3 and sleepwalks through this moment. Well, already black develops a huge initiative on the queen side by playing a6. What are we preparing? We're preparing the move b5. Why is that move dangerous? Because after b5, white is unable to take, because the knight on c3 hangs. So let's say white says, okay, well I'm going to go Rc1, and I'm going to defend this knight. Well, it turns out that black can still very often play b5. Because after a cb, ab, white collapses on the queen side. If bishop takes b5, who can tell me the simple and very powerful move that makes this line work? This is part of the big reason that you put your rook on c8. Of course, rook takes knight. And as I've explained many times, two pieces for a rook usually benefits the minor pieces, particularly in the middle game with a wide open center. By the way, after rook takes c3, we also have the move knight takes e4, which is even sexier than queen takes b5, because we recapture the rook, and everything starts hanging. You can analyze this a little bit more on your own. And if white plays knight takes b5, then of course we take the queen. If white plays rook takes c8 check, we can do either rook takes c8 or even bishop takes c8, and we recapture on a2 with a huge initiative. In the endgame, after rook d1, we can redeploy the bishop on e6, and start tackling this pawn. White is getting tortured here. So that's yet another line. Now, of course, white can play a4 and defend against b5. Now you should not play b5 because of ab with a discovered attack on the queen. But any time a4 is played on the accelerated dragon, you should understand that the b3 pawn becomes a permanent weakness. What are the tools available to us to attack it? Well, one thing we can do is just stick the queen on this weak square. White is forced to defend the pawn, but here you have to remember the maneuver knight f6 to d7. Some of you were suggesting this move earlier. Here it's actually very strong because it opens up an attack on the knight, and the knight potentially dives into c5. And also, after rook fc1, we can now play b5. ab, ab. And if cb, then we win the knight. And if knight takes b5, who can tell me what is the correct sequence from this position? This will test if you understand kind of the idea of b5. I'll be right back. What's the move here? Very good. You got it. Now the key thing to understand is that very often when you sack a pawn, you should not rule out a queen trade. Queen trade doesn't mean anything. This skewers the bishops. Now after rook d1, it's time to start a fire on the other side of the board. We have white very much compromised, but in order to translate that to an actual advantage, we have to continually create threats and challenge white where he's weak. And in order to do that, we often have to use our pawn. So this is another very typical Ixari to dragon idea. A very timely use of the move f7, f5. What is the point of this move? Well, if white takes on f5, then you play bishop f5, rook c1. And you can go either bishop b2 to trap the rook or knight to c5 when white has no good way to defend b3. Just look at the extent of black's domination here. And you might say, well, I don't understand. What if white ignores? Well, it's not that easy to make a move here because white is so paralyzed. But let's say white literally plays h3. Well, now we can play knight c5. And we're already attacking the e4 pawn. And white starts to collapse here. White can play b4 to chase the knight away, but now the knight squeezes into a4 and now c4 is weak. And white can't move this rook because the bishop hangs. So, much like the Grunfeld, the accelerated is about appreciating the power of piece activity and the ability to sacrifice sometimes a pawn, sometimes even more than that, to achieve this long-term activity and to understand that it's not all about--when you sacrifice something, it's not like you have to win immediately, right, or win in two or three moves. You can play for a very prolonged period of time, let's say, down a pawn, even down a piece, as long as your other pieces are active. This is the concept of squeezing and putting pressure, which is very challenging, but it's why I'm talking about it, because we're at a high level now. Okay, so that was a lot. Now, there are many more lines to show here. I will point out that I don't remember what the-- what Wesley's recommendation is in his e4 course, like you guys can tell me, but the main line, bishop e2, bishop e7, is bishop e3. The line that used to be considered best is actually bishop c1 to g5. At one point, I think this was considered to be a very good line. Here, in contrast, of course, black has no good discovery because this bishop is invulnerable, but our strategy barely changes. We still play bishop e6. We're still threatening knight d5, so white is now forced to drop back to d2. And now we play queen a5 once again. We basically make the same moves against everything. And another very important thing to understand is that very often, white plays bishop h6 in these types of positions. And this is a bad move. And the reason why is that you do give up your fianchettoed bishop, but look at how weak these pawns are. The simplest way to pick them off is to play rook a c8. And white can't play b3, a very common blunder at a lower level. Even some GMs have blundered like this against me. White can play knight d5 and hit e7, but after bishop takes d5, if white takes with a c-pawn, the e-pawn drops, and if white takes to the e-pawn, this is another classic scenario. This is a pawn chain. How do we attack this pawn chain? Well, you already know that b5 is one of black's main tools on the queen side. And after c takes b5, you can take this pawn, or you can put the emphasis on peace activity and infiltrate to c2. Black is the only one having fun. So, King's Gambit asks, what if white pushes f4? f4 does not create a threat, and so we can simply continue with our campaign and play rook a c8. And after b3, you guys should already understand what black's move is. When b3 is played, the first thing you should always test is whether you can play the immediate b5. And here you can, because the queen on d2 is hanging. The move f4 has severed the connection between the bishop and the queen, making b5 possible. There are so many of these lines that I can show you, but I think that's enough for now. This is like a good introduction to this line. I'm sure that we're going to have another game when we're 2200 or so, and then I'll talk more about theory. Yeah, knight takes e4 was not possible. And the reason is, sorry, I just wanted to address this question. So we were talking about this line, castles castles, bishop b6, queen d2, queen a5, f4, rook a c8, b3. Knight takes e4 is bad, because white takes on e4. And when the smoke clears, white has two pieces for a rook. Now, black is all right here, but this is nothing to write home about. Really nothing to write home about, because black's rooks are also very, very bad. There are no open files to control. And then you might say, well, but two pieces for a rook, how do I understand who's better? That's one of those things that is decided on a case-by-case basis. It's an imbalance. And that is why one of the biggest pieces of advice given to higher-rated players is to seek positions with a lot of imbalances, because they are harder for a lower-rated player to evaluate, because they require a lot of experience and understanding to evaluate properly. Okay, so you shouldn't be thinking of this in the terms of, oh, what is the formula for evaluating this? Two pieces for a rook is generally good for the two pieces, so most of the time you should have a good justification for going for it if you are the side of the rook. Okay. Hopefully that was halfway sensible. Again, I'll talk more theory later. Let's address our opponent's move, f3. I'm going to check this with the engine. Of course, f3 has been played many, many times. Oh, so there's some tactics here that are interesting. Yeah, so apparently Nxd4 is all right, but not the best move. The best move, according to the engine, is indeed Bg7. White plays Bb3. And here we have to rely on a trap. I mean, in order to understand this move, you have to know the most famous accelerated dragon trap, which I've shown before. We've actually already had it. That trap occurs when White basically tries to play it like a regular dragon. When White plays the move Bc4, we castle and White basically tries to make all the moves that he would make in a dragon. Who remembers what the punishment is against this line? What's the famous trap that Bobby Fischer fell into against Oscar Pano? It's not Nxd4. That blunders a piece, but you want to set that move up with a very counterintuitive move. And that counterintuitive move is Qb6. And the whole point is that the bishop on e3 is undefended. So White would normally be able to do something like this. Here, of course, White's not able to do that. Now, the common response is Nf5. But now we grab this pawn on b2 and Black wins the game. And the reason why... Let me refresh because I got disconnected. One sec. Sorry. And the reason why... And this is important. I know this is a little bit tedious. You might be yawning if you're watching on YouTube. But you have to build the foundations of opening knowledge. There's just no way around it. So Nf5, Qb2, hits the knight on c3. And not only that, we're also going to win one of the bishops. So White loses a bunch of pieces here. If White plays something like Bb3... Sorry. If White plays something like Bb3 to defend the pawn, now you're able to play Nxc4. This looks very confusing, but in fact it's very easy to understand. You now have three attackers on this knight and only two defenders. Once again, this knight is very limited in its scope because the bishop on e3 is going to drop. If White plays Nf5, then we can play Nxc3 and hit the queen. And in this way, we evacuate the knight that's hanging. And if White plays Fe, then we play Bxd4. Specifically, Bxd4 to not self-pin. And we're good. We're fine. We take with the queen, and we're simply up a pawn. White can equalize here, but it's very hard. Fischer figured it out against Pano. So with this idea under your belt, it should be easier to understand what the move is here. Again, it's this queen b6 idea. Now here, it's even more complicated because now Nf5 looks quite a bit scarier. The bishop on g7 drops with check, but he did fall into the trap, but then Fischer was able to equalize. If you calculate further, you will notice that we quickly win the piece back because this knight is trapped and the rook is hanging. So this move is not scary because White has no good discovery. This is a double-check big deal. We just go Kg8, and we win. It's scary, but if you know that this is the move, then it's easy. White has to defend the rook. Then we take on g7. And Black is up a pawn here. And I think practically this is a very hard position for White to play because if White plays a move like Bte2, which I think is the logical move, then we stick the knight right in White's grill, Nt4. We're threatening a fork. And if White just ignores and castles, then we actually can get away with Nc2. Because after Rb1, who can tell me what the key resource is for Black? And this is kind of a theme in these lines. Yeah, it's simple. Nxc3. And we take and hit the queen at the same time. Don't forget about these moves. And the key is not to automatically assume, oh, I have to move my queen. You have to look for moves that let's say take a piece and simultaneously attack your opponent's piece. And when the smoke clears, Black is simply up a pawn and White has no position either. Hopefully that line made sense. There's a lot more to this. The only other thing I'd point out, the second most common move here is Qd2. And again, you should already be able to tell what's wrong with Qd2. This walks right into the trap, Nxc4. If White plays, let's test your guys' attention. If White takes the knight on c6, should Black play Nxq or Qxk, which move? Try to calculate. Yeah, Nxq is the correct move. Because after Nxr, we simply play ab. Material is equal and we are attacking White's knight. So when the smoke clears, we're just up a pawn and we've got a dominant mission. So Qxk would be a horrible blunder because it would simply give away the knight on e4. Yeah, there are other moves there, but I'm showing the simplest approach. What else is there? Of course, if White plays Fe, then again we play Bxd4, Bxd4, Qxd4, and of course the endgame is simply miserable for White. Okay? So that would have been the correct approach. It would be simply to play Bg7 and in response to Bb3 to play Qb6. White can also play Nc3 here. White can also play Nc3 here. But here Black wins with a tactic. Who spots it? Actually, not a lot of people have found this tactic. I see that a 2,000 fell into this in 2021 in a classical game. It's not castles. It's not Nxd4. That blunder is a piece. It is Nxd4. Great job, Colin. Same idea. A lot of people when they see this move say, well, it doesn't work. White takes this knight, then we have to take back and we lose a piece. Again, don't forget about this concept. We take White's knight and threaten the queen simultaneously. Okay? That's the key. White takes our queen. We take White's queen. Now White can win the pawn back here with a Desperado. Knight takes f7, but even though White wins the pawn back, this endgame is still horrible for White. Look at how passive White is. Look at how bad these bishops are. Look at our bishop, and we're going to pile up on the c4 pawn on the next move with Bb6 and Rac8, which is an idea that by now should be very familiar to. Of course, if White plays Rb1, then we can chase the rook away with Bf5 and then drop back to e6. This placement of the bishop is crucial. Okay. So, instead, we took on d4 and played Bg7. Probably e5 is not the best that White can do. My guess is that White should have reverted back to probably a main line with Nc3. Then we would have castled, and we would have gotten something very similar to the main line. Anyways, let's focus on e5 because it's already been a while. Ng8, Nc3. Okay. This is all very natural, and here we sort of came to the first crossroads in the game where initially, of course, I was banking on dxc5. That is the engine's top choice, but still, I'm not a huge fan of this position. The engine simply says, hey, Bd7, big deal. We're up a pawn. Evaluation here is equal. White has enough compensation for the pawn, but not more than that. And if White plays it inaccurately, then White is worse. So I thought White would go here. According to the engine, White is supposed to drop back to e3 just to keep this diagonal under control. And here, the engine's top move is actually Bh6, so you trade off a pair of bishops, and simultaneously, you get your knight out of the gate, and the knight can circle around through f5. Now White is supposed to play this very typical move, c5, in order to threaten Bb5. And one way that the game could bail out is, well, we can play Nf5, but that's iffy. Best is to play Ke8. And it's important to understand that in this situation, Nd5 is no longer dangerous because we can simply bring the rook to c8. But if you contrast that to this situation, because of the presence of this bishop, Nd5 is now a whole lot more dangerous because it's not easy to defend the c7 square. In fact, here, Black gets checkmated with Rd8, so this would not be fun. So perhaps we should have played De. We decided to keep the tension. The engine also likes this move, so Qe4. And now this was a very important crossroads, because we decided essentially to bail out with dxc5, which of course is fine. I'm going to check the engine here, and then I won't over-rely on the engine, I promise you that. Okay, so looks like we did have Qb6. Oh! Oh, this is really interesting. Yeah, this is very high level. Very high level. The best move is Qb6. dxc5, and what we did is 2nd-best, that's just equal. Black has a slight edge, apparently, after Qb6. Now, who can remind me, why did I reject this move? And why does this move look like it plays into White's hand? What does it allow White to do? You don't have to remember all of this, folks. If you're trying to remember all of this, you're doing it wrong. First of all, this will be up on YouTube, and you can review it as often as you'd like. You have to try to understand the ideas, which hopefully I'm doing a halfway decent job of explaining. Long castle. No, come on. Nb5 maybe, but we can just chase the knight away here with a6. So, no, it's long castle. Now the engine gives this idea. De, Bb5, and Bh6++, already setting a trap. If the king moves aside, then Bf5 pins the queen. White has to play f4 and intercept. Now we bring our knight out with tempo. And White is in some trouble here because the queen has no good squares. White can go into the endgame with Qd4, or White can trade on f6 and go Nd5. And this is, right, when you analyze the engine, like when you have this position without engine, it would be terrifying. Looks like White has some discovery and our king is in the center. When you look at the engine eval, you'll realize that White has absolutely nothing because on the next move you just castle and you've got two fantastic bishops. White's king is in permanent trouble, and again, in such positions White is always having a hard time finding a good spot for this bishop because of this darn c4 pawn. And if White plays c5, then we can castle and we can actually start targeting this pawn with Ra8 to see it. So whatever White does, there will be some downside. So this is high-level stuff for sure. We decided to play it in a much simpler way with Bxe5, and the position is equal. And h4 was a very interesting idea by our opponent, followed by h5. And in this position, White has a forced draw. This is like the last thing I'll ask you guys to find, because once we got into the endgame and we entered the technical phase of the game, we're going to go a lot faster and we're just going to focus on just a couple of the important moments. We're not going to look at every move. But White did have a draw here, and I deliberately avoided saying this on stream, just in case. It is Rxh5. But what's the actual draw here? This is hard to see. And this reminds me of something. Yeah, Qg3 or Qg5. And you go back to e5. And you go back to e5. And this reminds me of something. And the bishop hangs. Now, maybe I would have played this move, but there's no question that White is better here. Right? The spawn structure was ruined. A rook's coming to d1. The bishop could come to d3 and create mate threats against the spawn. This is miserable, so I would have had to objectively take the draw. Now, this is a very important type of tactic which occurs in a different version. I've seen this tactic many times. Let me search up a sample to help you understand what I'm talking about. Let me see if I can quickly and efficiently find an example. So, it's a tactic that relates specifically to scenarios where the bishop is on e6, which happens quite often, because e6 is a standard developing square for the bishop. This is just some game between two 2,000s. And White finds the following idea. White plays Ra to e1, forcing the bishop on e6. And now White finds a very powerful move. I think a lot of you would be very tempted to take this one, but this cashes in too soon because Black moves the rook and Black is holding on. White plays Qe3, a very powerful move, and Black is powerless. Black tries to get the queen out of the pin, and the key, Qe5, threatening mate, and in order to defend against the mate, Black has to push the f-pawn, which relinquishes control over the bishop. Okay? And that's the general gist of what I'm talking about. Now let's go back to the game. Yeah, so same concept, right? You give that check, and in order to defend against the check, you have to relinquish the control over the bishop. Something very similar could happen in a scenario by the way like this, where again, you're threatening mate. To defend against mate, you have to give up a land piece. So what is the takeaway from this? The takeaway is that when you're looking at attacking ideas, you should not forget that one of the most powerful techniques involves combining a mate threat with a threat on an undefended piece. Yet another type of instantiation is a scenario where I'm just getting a random position. A scenario like I don't know, like this one, right? Very often people forget that in such a situation, you can play Qh6 and you can attack both the undefended rook and the h7 pawn. So there's a common attacking technique which essentially involves, in a situation like this, to deliver a check first, then to play Qh6 and fork the rook and the pawn. Rather than going Qh6 immediately, which doesn't attack the rook. Now hopefully that gives you a good little in tactically. That's what our opponent missed. That is how close he was to making a draw with Rxh5. Instead he played the obvious move and after Qb8, we essentially forced the queen trade because of the possibility of diving into g3. And okay, we could spend another hour analyzing this endgame. I think the next stage was pretty straightforward. A pair of rooks were traded. We activated our knight. We moved the knight back to f5. We got this knight vs bishop imbalance. We dropped the bishop back to e6. Now we traded on df6. There was a bunch of trades and we found this very important move, Kf8. This was a critical move, right? So you shouldn't be unquestioningly afraid of the rook infiltration to the 7th ring because sometimes you can do this thing where you drive the rook out using your rook and your king. And then we're chilling. Um... No, it was not Rzeszewski-Fischer. It was in fact Fischer-Pano. Um, it was Fischer-Pano. Okay, so there was a question. Why not e5? Ah, so there's an interesting suggestion by Amaraldo. Why not to play e5 first? I didn't see this move, honestly. This is actually not bad. Well, I saw this but I rejected it because of Rxd5. But on second thought, you can actually go Rxe6 now and trade e pawn for c pawn. Yeah, but okay. But it's not like e5 helps black that much. In fact, I would make the argument that it seriously weakens the d5 square. Right? Because now you can't go e6. Now you might say, well, here you're blocking the e pawn but we still reserve the possibility of playing e6 later down the line. It's a minor detail. Okay. So Kd2. We play Ke8. Obviously we set up the threat of Rd8. And here, I actually think that white makes a subtle mistake. I think that white should have tried the move g5. I think this is the best practical defense is to play g5. And I have no idea whether black is in fact winning in this pawn endgame. And sometimes even engines take a long time to evaluate stuff like this. I'm going to check. I'm going to check with the engine here and see if this endgame is winning for black. Drumroll, please. Wow, it's actually currently at equals over plus. No, it's draw. It's a draw. And here is how white draws. Now this is, oh, this is fascinating. What do you think white's best move is here? White is an only move, apparently, an only move to draw. Yeah, everything else loses. Wow, this is amazing. Not c5. c5 loses. b4 loses. f4. Only move is f4. Now, this is insanely hard. What would be my intuitive move? My intuition would be just to bring the king up to e3. The reason this draw is here black has this crazy tactical idea. You start with a move that should be very obvious to all of you. You're trying to counteract the deep freeze by removing the g5 pawn. Obviously, white's going to go f4. And here there is a crazy tactic that wins. This is a very hard move. Here white is a winning move. Or black is a winning move, rather. That winning move is to play e5. Absolutely brazen. You're like, you're allowing a passer on f6? And you might be like, well, in this scenario isn't white just going to create another passer on the queen side? And then you're going to get a trouser situation? Black is winning in this position. And in order to win, it's now black who has to find an only move. To win, black has to play prophylactically. a5. Stopping white from advancing the b pawn. And as much as possible, slowing down the process of creating a passed pawn on the queen side. Because if white goes here, then we deep freeze white on the queen side with a4. This is a technique I outlined in my endgame video. So in order to counteract this, white has to waste the tempo on b3. What do we use this tempo to do? Well, we use this tempo to make this pawn harmless. How do we do that? Well, of course, by blockading with our king. White continues to try to create a passer, but we are just in time. King f7 hits the pawn. White has to defend it. White has to defend it. And now we send our pawn forward. And we win by a tempo. Takes, takes, h4. Threatening h3. White has to move the king back. We take f6, and this is an easy win. Because if white plays c5, clearly white is not, white is too tempy away from creating a queen. Now if white goes the other way and tries king to g5, the winning move is h6 check. This is easier to understand. And this is a winning position for black with a very simple we just go with the king to the queen side. For instance, after c5, the easiest way to win is to go king e5, and then king d4, and white is way too far away. After king f5 though, the winning move is actually king to c3. It's not king takes pawn because then white's king makes it back to the center in time. But here black is winning because we get to the pawns first. No, it's crazy. It's absolutely crazy. If white plays b4, then we're able just to take twice. We take c5 and we get a winning king and pawn endgame. So it's crazy. But this is winning. Now we need to play a5. If we start by playing king e8, we give white that extra tempo. And white uses this tempo to reach this position that we talked about. But here because white's advanced his pawns even further, and if we try king e5, what is white's drawing technique to play b5 and c6 and forcibly get rid of the b-pawn. And this is the worst-case scenario in almost all pawn endgames that you're trying to win. The quarter pawn is the worst pawn that you can have because even if you win the a-pawn, white is just in time. Tempo for tempo reaches c2 and reaches a very well-known theoretical draw. So insanity. I mean, the level of complexity. And this is just a pawn endgame. So rook endgames have their own complexity, plus you have to constantly evaluate the rook trade, and often you get pawn endgames that are even more complicated. So all of that to say that rook d8 is incorrect. Oh, sorry. All of that to say not even that, that white has to play f4 in order to draw. But what on earth happens if black plays f6? Right? Isn't this the same thing? What does white use that tempo to do? Well, according to the engine, well, you already have an insight on this position. How should white ensure that the same scenario does not happen? White has to play b4. This is what white gains by starting with f4. And if black plays a5 here, and tries to prevent that from happening, then white plays b3, f6, and a3, and black is just not in time here. You basically save a tempo on Ke3, which turns out to be an unnecessary move. This is one of those pawn end games where creating passed pawns is more important than bringing the king to the center. So, that's where white saves that tempo. And if black tries to do the same thing, black actually runs the risk of losing. Black actually runs the risk of losing. Here, in fact, black is already lost because of the trousers. White wins by playing simply c5, and then b5 and c6 is a classic case of trousers. You try to stop one pawn, and the other pawn promotes. You try to stop that other pawn, and the second pawn promotes. Now, of course, white's king is close enough to black's pawn majority to keep it at bay for long enough for white to promote his pawns. Does that make sense? Now, of course, here, you should never forget that if black simply cannot stop white's pawns, this is the benefit of a pawn majority. You can force the door open. Here, you can play b5, and both sides have spent a tempo, so neither side has gained anything. And so, in this position, black has to play something like Kd7. The game goes on, but this is a draw. White uses his pawn majority to prevent black from making any progress. Actually, white gets the king into the center, and eventually, you reach a scenario where neither side can make progress. Black can't make progress because you can't get rid of the deep freeze, and you can never set this h-pawn in motion. Incredible stuff. All of that to say that after g5, I maybe would have played Rd8, but according to the engine, the best move is Rc8, Kd3, and now f6, basically to do the same thing, but keeping the rooks on the board, which gives you more winning chances. And if white plays f4, then again, you play e5. So even in the rook endgame, this is a very powerful technique. Crazy. f takes e5, f takes g5, and black is winning here, apparently, because of the three-pass pawns. And, wow, this position is also winning for black, and the reason we played Rc8 is to keep white tied down to this pawn. So Ke4 isn't possible, and these three passers are going to decide the game. Okay. Mind-blowing stuff, but I think that's enough. Kc3, now we go e6, and we chase the rook away. The rook swings over to the b-file. Again, just to reiterate, if the rook had gone to d1, it's very important in rook endgames to not fall asleep on concrete details. I think a lot of people would play Rd1 right here. And forget about Rh1, suddenly you lose the pawn. So you have to go Ke7. You have to be alert and attentive to these moments, Rh8, and if white tries to play g5 here, you already know what the winning technique is. What would we have done in the event of g5? You should already understand what the process for ending the deep freeze is. f6, f4, and what's the move now? And here it's actually quite obvious that this move is correct because it doesn't involve any sacrifices. Yeah, it's e5. We literally just break through that deep freeze, and after fe, we play fg, and the pass pawns decide the game. And if gf here, we don't even need to sacrifice anything. We simply get this situation, and again, we have connected passers. They're just going to push on their own. Our rook is ideally placed. Could you start with e5 before f6? Yeah, you could. You could play e5 and then f6. The thing is, it is a waste of tempo though, because let's think about it mathematically. The good thing about starting with f6 is that if white actually takes on f6, you've saved a tempo on e5, which you don't need to play. Now you can start pushing your h-pawn. By playing e5, this is a minor subtlety. You're giving white an extra tempo, which could become important because here, white is a little closer to creating a pass pawn of his own. There's no need to give white that tempo. You should only play e5 in response to f4. Does that make sense? In fact, inviting f4 is a good thing for black because now we have two pass pawns rather than one. Okay, so anyways, minor points. Our opponent decided to stay on the 5th rank. Now we play h6, which I think is a very good move. Oops, sorry. F4, Ke7, bringing our king up and preparing the eventual Rh8. And here I decided to take the opportunity to improve the placement of my rook. Okay, f4. Now, I'm not going to spend forever analyzing this with an engine. I think it's sort of a 50-50 game in that maybe white can draw this, but practically speaking, it would be very difficult. I will point out I think white went wrong. White's big mistake was probably in this position. I think white had a drawing idea. And I'm actually going to confirm this. Yes, I just confirmed this with the engine. I think this is a serious mistake. And here white had the same idea. Without this idea, white loses. It's a tactical idea that generates counterplay on the queen side. Very, very difficult. Let's see who can spot it. I will give you a hint. There's something that white can do on the queen side in order to favorably transform the pawn structure. What is it? Way too slow. a4, a5, a6. Way too slow. Black's pawn will be on h2 before you blink. Not c6. Too early. You have to start with rook a5, but that's the right direction. Why rook a5? What does this do? Well, this attacks the a-pawn. Black plays a6, and now we play c6, breaking apart the pawn chain. And in so doing, white creates this weakness that black now has to burn a tempo to defend, but most importantly, white creates a passed pawn of his own that can be used as a bargaining chip, making it more difficult and giving the rook more tasks. So just a good technique to have in your library of ideas, right? You attack a pawn, force it forward, and then you overload the other pawn. And I've seen this kind of thing before. Without this idea, white just does not have the defensive firepower to keep this pawn at bay. Maybe this is still a draw miraculously, but again, I think it's becoming harder and harder. And very importantly, we found the right opportunity to play e5. We're threatening to create a protected pass where we force the white to take, and already I think this is a winning endgame. King d5. I thought I played it very accurately. And this idea which I found was, I thought, very, very powerful, this rook on h5. Now you might say, well, how did you know that the rook belongs there? I actually had a game, if I remember correctly, where I had kind of a similar type of idea. Basically, the point is that you want to extract the most benefit from your rook. In general, in rook endgames, because you have so few pieces, you want your rook to be playing to its fullest potential. And there was a game long ago where I was able to save the game by kind of following that rule of using the rook to perform and fulfill as many tasks as possible. I was able to draw a GM in a game that I should have lost. So, this is the position that I had against that GM. Now, it's a very difficult position for white. But I was able to find a very interesting drawing technique. Basically, you ask yourself, what does black want? What black wants to do is to simply advance this king forward. I was able to find a unique fortress by playing e5. Two concepts are at play here. The first is, again, I would call this using the pawn as a bargaining chip where you might be afraid of something like rook b5, but you don't have to be because the moment black takes the e-pawn with the rook, we take the b-pawn and this is an obvious draw. Black, of course, plays king e6. Now the rook switches over to e8. And my opponent started to realize that he can't make progress because if he drives the king up, the rook drops down to e7, and you're able to win the f7 pawn and then quickly run the king over to the other side of the board. If white goes king d7, I threw in this move, and I go back to b8. And no matter what black does, anytime the king goes up to e6, the rook temporarily moves away from its ideal post to chase the king back down. And my opponent kept trying it, he failed, and then my rook was able to cut off the king, and eventually I was able to force white to give this pawn away and then get my king to the right spot in order to draw the game. Why was e5 important here? Let's say you try to play this without e5. Let's say you go king f1. Maybe this is not a great example. Oh, I was afraid of f6. I was afraid of this move. And I think what you're able to see here is that it's very hard for white's rook to do everything at once. If you go rook f8 and try to do the same thing, black's king basically squeezes through to a much more dangerous square. You're basically trying to keep the king boxed in. It's not an ideal example, but again, I'm just trying to help you understand the bigger picture, which is to try to maximize the potential of each piece, particularly the rook. And it doesn't always mean, you know, you shouldn't have a preconceived notion of what an active rook looks like. That's kind of the secondary concept here. Because you might look at this and say, this rook seems really passive because it's quote-unquote tied down to the protection of these pawns. Well, that's one way of looking at it, but it's also tying white down, right? Because it's tying down the king, it's keeping the king fully at bay. Notice how all of the infiltration squares are protected. And most importantly, it's keeping the rook at bay. Any time the rook moves, we push the pawn. Now, the last concept that I want to highlight is in this position where I missed that white was able to infiltrate from behind with king f6. And white could reach a very similar position to the one in the game, but I still think black is winning. And I think we win in exactly the same way that we won the game. We go b5, then we go king a4, and then we give up the h-pawn for the b-pawn, and we convert via the Lucina method. So we go here, here. We go here. We go rook c8 to cut off the king. And any time white takes the pawn, we take on a3. This is a theoretical win. This is a Lucina position. So the king is just unable to make it to the c-file. But I'll analyze this a little bit more on my own. This is getting a little bit too high level. For all intents and purposes, this is a winning endgame. This is almost impossible to save. But I've bored you enough with this endgame. Our opponent gave up a6. I took with the king. Notice what I did here. The reason I didn't take with a pawn is because having a corner pawn often referred to in a lot of rook endgames and pawn endgames. So even though it's counterintuitive to go backward, I thought the tempo was less essential than keeping that b-pawn. Which also immobilizes the a-pawn with the move b5. Okay. So in any case, we go b5. Now we give up one of the pawns strategically, but we cut off the king. And last thing, what if white had avoided taking the h4 pawn? Well, we could force white to take that pawn with a move like rook to g8, followed by rook to g3. Okay. So white is just not able to make it to the right area of the board at the right time. White's just not in time. We go b4, b3, b2. And notice how the rook actually cuts the king off along the third rank, so it's ideally placed on this square. If white plays rook takes h4, then you kind of know the drill. And the side checks are easily parried by bringing the king back to a4, and then blocking with a pawn. So the side checks are never like, it's never perpetual check here, because you basically use the same technique again and again. You go king a3, and then you go b3. And then king a2 and b2. You should remember that technique of dealing with side checks. And that's the basic premise for winning this game. Now the way our opponent played it, the only thing you have to know here is the technique of putting the king behind the pawn in order to advance the pawn one step further. Essentially pulling yourself up by the bootstraps. And then finally no Lucina needed, you just go rook a8, you choose the file that you will protect, and then you put the king on that file, and you promote the pawn. And that concludes this very, very complicated game. I basically only scratched the surface of the endgame, but we've been going well over an hour, and it's 4. I need to go to sleep because we've got commentary today. Technically, it's already light outside. I hope you enjoyed. Any questions? Yeah, very, very well played by our opponent, so big congratulations to our opponent. I mean, last speedrun game since I hit 2,000, I've been legitimately hard. And I mean this to compliment my opponents. So really, the key takeaway, our opponent played perfectly and should have played rook h5 and found this draw. Where I probably would have played f6 and risked it, but I would have run the risk of losing this game. Yeah, the big endgame book that I would recommend is 100 Endgames You Must Know. I would recommend the Chessable version. Great introduction to, like, not only the actual endgames that you must know, but it also contains great endgame essentials for, like, getting the hang of a lot of positions. Thank you everybody, and I'll see you tomorrow. Endgame music