Translator: Leonardo Silva I was the CEO of a large the host of a national television show. I preached in mega churches. I was a successful, well-educated, The poet and mystic Thomas Merton said, &quot;It's a difficult thing to climb only to realize when you get there that your ladder has been leaning (Laughter) I knew from the time was three In my naivety, I thought I got to choose. I thought a gender fairy &quot;Okay, the time has come!&quot; But alas, no gender fairy arrived, so I just lived my life. I didn't hate being a boy. I just knew I wasn't one. I went to college, got married, but the call toward authenticity (Laughter) And eventually decisions have to be made. So I came out as transgender I had never had a bad review, and I lost every single job. In 21 states, you can't be fired but in all 50, you can be fired if you're transgender Good to know! (Laughter) It's not easy being a transgender woman. People sometimes ask, And I say, &quot;Well, if you've talked you've talked to exactly one I can't speak for anybody else.&quot; I feel 100% like a transgender woman. There are things a cisgender woman That said, I am learning a lot and I am learning a lot (Laughter) I have the unique experience (Laughter) and I'm here to tell you: (Laughter) (Applause) So, I'll start with the small stuff - like the pockets on women's jeans. (Laughter) What! (Cheers) (Applause) (Laughter) I can't put a phone in there. (Laughter) Paper clip, maybe. (Laughter) Or the sizing of women's clothing. Do the numbers mean anything? (Laughter) What is a double zero? (Laughter) And ladies, I doubt but do you know there is never that he has to worry about whether or not an article of his clothing is accidentally Not a long sweater, not a belt, nothing. Never even a passing thought. (Laughter) Now, I get my hair cut but it costs tens times as much. (Laughter) So, I can go on vacation I cannot do both. (Laughter) I keep bumping into gender Sometimes literally. I'm walking down the hallway There's nothing in the way, I think, &quot;What's that about?&quot; And I know it's going to leave a bruise because now that my skin is thinner How I experience my sexuality It's less visual and more holistic; less of a body experience I cannot count the number of times &quot;I am so, so sorry!&quot; (Laughter) I just didn't know what I didn't know. There is no way a well-educated how much the culture There's no way he can understand it and all he ever will know. And conversely, there's no way that a woman because being a female She might have an inkling that she's but she has no idea how much harder it is for her than it is in the office across the hall. I know! I was that guy! And I thought I was one of the good guys, sensitive to women, egalitarian. Then came the first time Now, I've flown over 2.3 million miles I know my way around an airplane. And American was great but that does not mean The first time I flew as Paula, and I got on the plane So, I picked it up to put my stuff down, I said, &quot;Okay, but it's in my seat. So, I'll just hold it for you and then I'll give it to you.&quot; He said, &quot;Lady, that is my seat!&quot; I said, &quot;Actually, it's not. (Laughter) &quot;1D, 1D. But I'll be glad to hold your stuff He said, &quot;What do I have I said, &quot;Yeah, it's not.&quot; (Laughter) At which point the guy behind me said, &quot;Lady, would you take so I can get in the airplane?&quot; I was absolutely stunned! I had never been treated I would have said, and the guy immediately and said, &quot;Oh, I'm sorry.&quot; I know that because The flight attendant She said to the guy, I put his stuff down in 1C, and of course you know (Laughter). Mister &quot;would you take (Laughter) So, my friend Karen, came on the plane She left and waved goodbye. When I got to Charlotte, she called me. She said, &quot;Paula, what happened? You were as white as a sheet!&quot; I told her and she said, &quot;Yeah. Welcome to the world of women!&quot; (Laughter) Now, the truth is I will not live I brought it with me when I transitioned. (Laughter) A lot of decades of being a man. But that doesn't mean Let me tell you Apparently, since I became a female, (Laughter) Yeah, I guess it's the loss of that has caused me to lose the brain cells necessary to be a fully (Laughter) Either that or I'm as smart as I ever was, it's just now I'm constantly (Laughter) (Applause) So, I was in my local Denver bike shop &quot;Can I help?&quot; And I said, &quot;Yeah. Can the frame of an older start to flex and bend enough He said, &quot;Well, disk breaks I said, &quot;I know that, and in fact I do He said, &quot;Oh, well, I said, &quot;Yeah, my rotor is not bent. With condescension, he said, I said, &quot;You could answer my question.&quot; (Laughter) At which point Kyle, the manager He's such a sweetheart. He said, &quot;I think you're probably right. Let me ask you a question: Do you only get a chirp coming when you're pulling hard uphill?&quot; I said, &quot;Yes, exactly!&quot; He said, &quot;Yeah, that's frame fatigue.&quot; I wanted to fall at the feet of Kyle (Laughter) Someone was taking me seriously! This happens all the time now. I have to go three before I get a direct answer! And there's a deeper issue: the more you're treated as if the more you begin to question whether or not you do in fact (Applause) I understand the woman's tendency Do you ever notice if a woman and she knows she's right, she apologizes for it? She says, &quot;I'm sorry, You know, you don't have (Cheers) (Applause) Since I'm new to this gender, I said, &quot;What are women She said, &quot;Women are looking for men who will realize our gifting it's just different, it is in fact more comprehensive Now, of course there are men like my good friend who always draws out the best in me and then seems to take pleasure We need more men like Mark, who are willing to honor I know I'm going to keep bumping into but let me leave you with this. To the women, I offer my heartfelt thanks. I often feel like an interloper, a late arrival to the serious but you show me grace and great mercy. I want you to know you are you are more powerful than you know and you reflect the best parts And to you guys who are probably feeling more than (Laughter) I do understand. I never thought I had privilege, but I did. And so do you. What can you do? You can believe us when we tell you that we might, but we do not have equity. It is not a level playing field, You can be a part of the solution You uniquely have that power. And to all of us, do you know who I think about a lot? I think about my brown-skinned daughter, and my brown-skinned daughter-in-law. What do they know that I'm clueless about? What do any of us really know about It's hard being a woman, As a man, I just didn't know Would I do it all again? Of course I would, because the call toward authenticity it's for the greater good. For 45 years, my father My mother is even more conservative - (Laughter) When I came out as transgender, I thought I would never Last January, I took a chance and he took my call. We talked for about a half hour, I asked if I could come for a visit, And last spring, I had a delightfully I've met with them twice since. But that day, toward the end my father said a number As I stood to go - he said - (Applause) As I stood to go, he said, &quot;Paula&quot; - He called me Paula - (Applause) He said, &quot;Paula, I don't understand this, but I am willing to try.&quot; My father is 93 years old, and he's willing to try. What more could I ask? I hugged him so tightly. One man willing to give up his power that he loved his child, and he was willing to do to honor the journey of another. Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers)