CES is usually a mixed bag. It's a great place to see where the tech it's heading. There were several trends from previous years and some showstoppers that have created a But what really caught my eye, and what you light solar cells to apartment-ready home impact on our lives and health. Along with renewed interest in...hydrogen Trade shows are often full of vaporware and But this year felt different. So, what were the highlights that I think And what new tech surprised me most? I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by Headspace, Before I give my two cents on the best of clarity. Or rather, transparency. I've gotta bring up what many of you have social media: transparent TVs. Why transparent? That was the question that went racing through during its keynote. I definitely wasn't asking for that feature. Were you? But then I saw it. It worked way better than you might think. I also got to take a look up close and personal Would I want this in my house? No, my TVs are just fine -- but it was want one. Instead of looking like a giant black slab the wall. The way it works is actually pretty clever. It has an opaque backing that can roll flat panel screen or the new see-through mode. When transparent, it can act like an art screen on the table, or smart TV apps floating in The transparency was a seamless effect that is going to come with a high cost right now. It'll be interesting to see if this is a to affordable models, or if it will fade into TVs. Now that we've got that out of the way, So, low-light solar panels aren't exactly They've been around for decades, and you're on small things like keyboards and calculators. However, the US-based company Ambient Photonics market right now. And from what I've seen, it's actually It's a new type of dye-sensitized solar spectrum light, so anything from compact fluorescent in a room can be converted into electricity. What sets their technology apart is the power better performance than a typical DSSC cell. Why does that matter? Well, think about all the devices in your lithium ion cells. That includes all your remote controls, wireless devices like motion sensors, and so on. You get the idea. Those same devices, when combined with Ambient would never need to have a battery replaced battery. That means gadgets that use fewer materials without having to replace batteries. The solar cells you usually see on devices in order to get the voltages and power they Buf if you shade one cell, you knock the entire out by fiddling with the calculators Unlike those, Ambient Photonics' technology a range of sizes. I saw examples of wireless mice that had a of the mouse. You could barely see the cell through the The matte texture design was nuts. They showed me a bifacial solar cell integrated Fire TV. No matter how you set this remote down, whether face up or face down, it'll always be able to charge. There's a lot to this tech I don't have like a deeper dive in a future video. Before getting into the next exciting thing something else I need to talk about. Does your mind race out of control like mine How many solar panels would that take? How long would that battery actually last? How does that thing actually work? How many wood chucks could chuck wood? Wasn't I supposed to be working on a CES Today's sponsor, Headspace can help with This isn't something I've talked about with some burnout recently ... I love making all together and I have a lot of stress and a head late last year. Headspace has been a huge help to me. They have something for everyone and teach It's a meditation app to help you learn One of my favorite parts is that they also why and how of it. There's a great one I just started to help If you'd like to see how Headspace might for free, for 60 days. Sign up with my link in the description below. Thanks to Headspace and to all of you for Now, back to the next CES highlight. I'm a huge fan of wearable technology and I've been wearing Apple Watches from the to be able to call out for help if they fall So, when I came across the company OrCam, attention. I personally demoed the OrCam Hear, which of hearing loss. It looks like an ordinary pair of earbuds, at play here. There's a companion smartphone app that noise cancellation. When I put them on, it tuned out all of the hear the voice of the person giving me the There were three people at the booth talking With a couple of taps on the phone app, I Then all three of them ... but the rest of Their noise-canceling is able to discern between Safe to say that demo blew my mind. Staying on the more personal, healthcare side Withings called the BeamO. This is like our first step towards a little in me was loving this one. Using a single device, you can perform an oxygen levels, and take your temperature. It even has a built-in stethoscope that you for your heart and respiratory system. I really want to get my hands on that one. Next up for me was in the smart home realm I'm a big believer in energy monitoring power. In a previous video, I showed off how I'm Energy Recovery Ventilator (ERV) to link it I've got one automation that ramps up the draw from the range hood fan. Well, Shelly has a range of new Gen 3 devices One is like a miniature version of the relay one that really got my attention. This little guy is an energy tracker and would devices around your house. In a very tiny and affordable box, you can Think dishwashers, washing machines, dehumidifiers use cases or trigger automations, like the It's really slick. I'm looking forward to getting my hands The next highlight for me shouldn't be a It's probably not going to be a shock that the battery companies and booths that I could There was a clear trend this year that came through loud and clear and it's pretty exciting news for home energy storage options out there. No, it's not hydrogen, but there's definitely get to in a minute. It was actually modular and easily expandable year. Every company under the sun had a similar EcoFlow has probably the most impressive of power station. It's a modular and portable system that You can plug directly into the unit or link energy monitoring and automatic backup power It uses a lithium iron phosphate battery chemistry, Each module has 6kWh storage and you can combine That would last the better part of a week That's just staggering. That modular approach extends to Anker, who line, like the Anker SOLIX F3800 Portable It's very similar to EcoFlow, but starts a total of 6 modules. Then you can combine multiple stacks for a The main takeaway is that these systems are and offer some pretty granular scalability. With a Tesla Powerwall you're probably starting these you're starting at $5,799 for EcoFlow That makes it easier to get into home energy But this is where another trend starts to It's one that I'd really like to see take taking hold in some parts of Europe right It's often referred to as balcony solar literally just hanging a couple of panels Tie those panels into a small battery pack instant apartment power backup. Anker has the SOLIX Solarbank E1600, which It's not a lot, but for an apartment that Another company called Marstek had something I'd love to do a deeper dive on balcony yet. Let me know if you'd be interested in that. That brings me to what surprised me the most. It's a divisive topic every time I talk I was shocked at how many companies talked &gt; "We are focusing in particular on hydrogen. We believe it'll be central to meeting our For example, Bosch talked at length about to their PEM fuel cells and how it's essential Panasonic said something similar, and also hydrogen and solar panels to make their climate On top of this, Hyundai discussed how they're cells to their entire hydrogen value chain From their waste to hydrogen technology where it into clean hydrogen. As if that wasn't surprising enough for for transportation. I thought the hydrogen car talk was done by Bosch is going to be releasing their hydrogen-burning Nexo hydrogen fuel cell vehicle. That raises a big question: why? Reading between the lines, there's a sentiment for batteries or their components for the Hydrogen can, in theory, open up more equitable It's a nice sentiment, but I'm a bit skeptical I've long thought that we shouldn't write have some really compelling use cases, but thought were kind of ... well ... dead. Aside from that, I was also pleasantly surprised plans and goals. More importantly, many were actually discussing laid out over the past year or two. I was happy to see that it's not just lip That could be a video on its own. So was there any tech from CES 2024 that caught Jump into the comments and let me know. And be sure to check out my follow up podcast your feedback. Thanks to all of my patrons, who get ad free Your support really helps us to keep delivering If you'd like to support the channel and in the description. I'll see you in the next one.