Well, look at what we have here: two the same time. Up top is the Sony Bravia 9, the and down below is the Sony A95L, regarded TV made today. I have so many ideas right now, Welcome back, everyone. I'm Caleb Denison, and super video, if you will--that tackles multiple you laugh your booty off. Mostly, I just wanted jokes in this video--that's &quot;bad dad jokes,&quot; not is mini LED versus OLED; this is the best QLED will never match OLED in a few key areas, and why areas. In other words, if you want to know what's if you want to know why there is no single best perfect TV--this is your video. Nearly 15 so man, I better not screw this up. if you low-key hope I do screw this up. Now, Okay, so if you're a super smarty pants emissive and transmissive display types, feel my feelings--just don't let me catch you in the Can't be having that. But also, time code links do want to skip ahead. For the rest of you, who I and &quot;emissive,&quot; stick around because I'm only I swear--and when I do, you're going to So, TV screens are essentially LCD TV screen is like a triple-decker club do they pack a powerfully tasty punch. simple in their build, but delightfully more and more and more of them. Man, I should Anyway, the LCD TV, like I said, it's got a a color filter, and lately, a quantum dot but the layer I want to hone in on right now is this TV is basically a bunch of LED light strips. 9, they are mini LEDs, which means they are tiny out by these glorified light strips goes through then it goes through a polarizer, which controls a color filter. Finally, that now-colored blocked out by the LCD--a liquid crystal layer. it's either open or it's closed. The the light starts at the back, travels and then flies out into the room aimed because the light is transmitted from an origin, OLED TVs have very few layers, which is why few layers is because there is no backlight--there deep), and no color filter. Instead, there are light up when you charge them with electricity. and that's why we call these &quot;emissive&quot; displays. uses a backlight and an LCD layer, and that the all the difference in the world. The human eye and bright--more readily than any other visual is where a TV really needs to excel in order for by their technological nature, extremely when you take electricity away from the OLED dark--totally black. And when you start from contrast. It's just a question of how bright I'm going to open your eyes to just how but first, I need to explain why LCD TVs, have to pull off a whirlwind of tricks in order to LCD technology is that the liquid crystals are this liquid crystal window shade is closed, it manages to seep through. This is why the first of looked milky gray, right? The backlights were out of the TV was to rely on the liquid crystals they aren't very good at that. So TV manufacturers blocking light, then the best way to get closer cell in the first place. And thus, local dimming the LCD, and thus we get better blacks. The only problems called &quot;blooming&quot; and &quot;halo.&quot; See, while be turned off and provide a really good sense of need to be on, and because we know that LCD cells the closer you get to the bright object, the more solution to that challenge was to use more LEDs could be dimmed, getting ever closer to having of that halo and blooming. But there was still more precise, and that's where mini LEDs came little clusters, we now have even more precise smaller areas of the screen. And if we break down massive number of zones that can be dimmed, we now halo and blooming--honestly, it gets so minute So, mini LED was already the shiz-nit, and they made the mini LEDs so that they weren't but they could be like 12 different stages of the backlight and the least amount of blooming and Right, so you might think then that with such halo or blooming to be seen any longer, that this OLED TV. In fact, folks were so hopeful for that around. And yet, when we compare this mini LED TV OLED still has better contrast. But how can that black as it can get, right? And there's almost no right? Well, yes, that is true on a macro object and this big black area is extremely high reason this OLED looks more contrasty than this which means to show you, we need to use a The contrast we seek is hiding in areas like can see some green leaves, but the space in picture right here--it's a bunch of fall-colored there are a bunch of dark areas there. Now, on the dim, if not turned off entirely, when we zoom in same spot in the image, we can see in the the bright areas at the pixel level that's because there's no way to stop light from The only way to make one pixel bright and the can control each individual pixel. So what this mini LED TV simply cannot be as good as the when we zoom back out, it almost seems silly tiny little section of the image, and that's you think about the micro-level contrast at the pixel-to-pixel contrast in hundreds of thousands, and you begin to realize that the aggregate points adds up to something that our eyes is why OLED will always beat LCD at contrast. LCD it is not physically possible. If it was, it possible would be to control the light Now, if you are a display geek, then you already and I cover how that tech works in another video. and it doesn't work at the consumer level. so much that the tradeoff just isn't worth it used in super expensive professional displays. So then why aren't all TVs OLED TVs? Well, there are more expensive to make, and thus they are just as important: OLED TVs struggle to get as a higher-impact display of contrast, there is Today's most advanced OLED TVs--also, they happen bright enough in small areas that they can provide as an LCD TV. Here's an example of that: the are just as bright on this A95L OLED as they a full-screen image is called upon to be bright, you're viewing a TV with a lot of bright ambient to feel like you're getting great contrast. The a room is, the more the irises in our eyes close we don't get blinded. So a TV in a bright room to have a strong impact. That's where full-screen LCD TVs are still preferred in these bright room like the LG G4, can get plenty bright even compared to a comparably bright LCD TV that There's one other thing to consider here. that an OLED TV could get as bright and let's say that manufacturing breakthroughs just as affordable as LCD TVs. Would OLED TVs because OLED TVs have one more weakness: and what we know about organic things is that things--they break down. And what that breakdown burn-in has been mitigated greatly over the past habits. And so long as that is the case, OLED Now, there is another technology called and it's the best of both worlds in terms and color. But the problem with micro LED is that can fit in a normal-sized TV. I mean, it's been is pretty stinking expensive. So, micro LED, for One other thing I have to bring up, is wide-angle viewing. This is another the gap between OLED and LCD has definitely that have great off-angle viewing now, and when viewed at extreme angles. Still, even going to offer a better picture when viewed off to So, as you can now see, there are technology. Even the best examples of each ever go away. And that means that we want to turn sure, but there's so much more to a TV than audio system that in some ways outpaces The Bravia 99's got a rechargeable remote those may seem like small things, but when way or another because they're both so great, Hopefully, you now understand why no perfect damn close? Absolutely. But we're not is to figure out what kind of TV is right for and everyone's needs are different. That's why I videos. I try to help folks understand their own because there is no such thing as a best TV for than just contrast. There's the matter of color upscaling, and motion processing, and such. between one TV and another when considering though, that's something that resonates that can be especially true for those So, look, if you made it to the end of this video, of the other people on this planet about how TVs what they cost. That knowledge, I hope, will the adventure of buying a new TV, or better yet, purchases. Thanks so much for watching, everyone! know by clicking that thumbs-up button? Subscribe see you on the next one, and until then, here so mini LED was already the shiz nit