[Applause] &gt;&gt;HARRY BREWIS: Good afternoon, comrades! [Laughter] That wasn't supposed to go up. So, hi, I'm Harry Brewis and I make YouTube When I was six, my cousin came up with that so I just kept it going. My channel is all kinds of things, I do a facts and data to pwn people on the internet. Here I am, handcuffed to my parent's garage boy" thing. I talk a lot about soy isoflavones and their It's an hour long, you don't have to watch It's fine. And for similar reasons, I destroyed all of change. [Cheers] To whoever took that clip and put it, thanks, but I would have really enjoyed That's fine, no big deal. Another small thing I did was in January this charity in the UK to spite a *former* comedy writer. [Cheers] [Applause] And I have been asked So let's try and discern how, together! [Laughter] Right. So we should probably begin with Mermaids. Mermaids is a charity that provides resources children who are trans or nonbinary, and also very often, especially in Britain, we have So having there actually be organizations really great thing. However, there are some people who don't like I don't know, they just don't seem to like I'm not really sure? I'm sure they believe they have good reasons, because they're not. [Applause] [Cheers] Which brings us to Graham He used to write for comedic TV shows and And currently, he tweets a lot! He, you know, he's got some things to say he knows what women want and it's his job He fancies himself a feminist activist, to women's problem is to exclude trans people. I wish there was a word for that. [Laughter] In case you're interested, Graham's anti-transgender activism, and it contains "Linehan has compared transgender activism The nuanced understanding-haver has logged on. [Laughter] So, anyway... [Whispers] My mouth is really dry. I was really nervous about this, I don't do I pretend I can do it, and then edit it to [Laughter] [Cheers] That's right, I'm a liar! Thank you! Great! So in December of last year, when most other are probably thinking about where they're that Mermaids were being awarded PS500,000 operation, and he took to Mumsnet to do something What is Mumsnet? Mumsnet is a forum in the UK for mothers and [Laughter] ...to complain about trans people. And you can see here, he told everyone who happens to work for the National Lottery to And this resulted in the funding being put out why they were getting hundreds of complaints They had to figure out if they were being because they do take themselves very seriously criticisms. They had to figure out if that was why, or to. We'll find out more about that later. Anyway, I decided to do something about it, horrible mess, and that way, I'm not responsible it to? I did a video about the speedrunning community. For those of you who don't know, there are video games quickly. And then there was GDQ, if you've heard Pretty cool. They've never invited me, that's fine. [Laughter] And they raise millions of dollars kinds of other wonderful things. And I decided while I was doing this video game done slowly. [Laughter] There's an old game called Donkey [Lone Whistle] Oh, okay. [Laughter] Basically, it takes ages if you want to complete I never beat it as a kid, because even as But I decided to promise on this Because when you're a millennial, you promise a sense of narrative purpose to your life. [Laughter] [Applause] So I decided the time So I made a video announcing it, 8:30 PM on And I said this is why I was doing it, I feel about trans issues is woefully rubbish, just At the end of the video I remember saying, night, don't forget to moisturize, and fuck And this highlights for me, at the time, what [Laughter] Now I recognize some people in quite nice. You probably do things for people that are want to do good things. I wanted to annoy a guy on the internet. [Laughter] I hadn't really expected the I'd done charity stuff in the past, and various things. I went into this with very low expectations, against a man who used to write jokes. But the problem with having very happens, you don't know how to handle them Because it was at 8:30 PM, because reason, I went to bed in the afternoon at I set my alarm for 8:30PM and woke up at 9:00PM I did what any ordinary person I panicked, I went in the shower, came out The cap was on the camera! I did not check until I'd hit stream. So the first five minutes were me wondering So I set a goal at the bottom, you can set more. I set this modest at like $500, thinking, In the first 30 minutes, when I was explaining I was in my dressing gown, we'd raised over The timer hadn't started yet, we hadn't This was the first moment where So at this point, 56 minutes in, by about $1,000, and I was beginning to wonder Why were people coming to this? Is there some Russian thing happening here? [Laughter] That's a thing that happens now, It kept going, and then eventually, was already sick of being fun. This is the part of the game that destroyed You have to play the original Donkey Kong. So I called my friend, Pio, who is a nonbinary spirits up while I get increasingly aggravated Pio is their internet username. I have been friends with Pio for many years Because that is how friendships work nowadays! That's just how we live our lives! I've met people who come up to me and say, I'm like, no, that's not my name... But fine, it's fine. So at one point partway through the stream, and realized that I'd maybe set my expectations I'm pausing dramatically for people who know how this goes. [Laughter] I'm also very thirsty, I'm I drank six gallons of water a day during I have this giant two liter bottle, it's Anyway. So Pio had to go to work or something, so I had who was a friend of mine who was around losing any understanding of what was happening for long enough, you start wanting to do anything Your eyes slide off. So I got my friend Dan Olson on, FoldableHuman Know this guy? Wonderful guy. My friend Crystal, Shannon Strucci, who is DOGSTRONG, who is another person person, and also CaseyExplosion, who is a member of the trans community on Twitter. That's what they tell me, anyway. [Laughter] So, at this point, things started to go to bed. Not just because I was tired, but just to [Laughter] You can see the corner of the bed And there's a wiki called WikiFeet, that keeps And at some point, there's a- uh- You just have to-- it's one of the many for your life. It's fine, it's fine. I can't delete it. [Laughter] So anyway, at this point, we're Skeleton Krew (with a "K" because Donkey bed and leave this thing because there's some So all of the friends I've currently listed server and went, okay, you make this last And then I went to bed and put a skeleton [Laughter] And lost control of my stream. I could tell something was going to go wrong for bed, and I went to look at the camera "Teeth Gang" over and over. [Laughter] People will still be writing "Teeth a half hours from then. [Laughter] The Skeleton Krew turns out to had while panicking. Because it turns out that when you give a things access to a server where other people maybe they should figure out who could be friends who he reckons would be fun, and they about the topic being discussed who they know I don't know much of anything, quite frankly. There's this very wonderful camaraderie that their own lives and experiences. And when I woke up, $10,000 was raised for still writing "Teeth Gang" in the chat. [Laughter] And one person in the audience So you're welcome! [Applause] And also, I'm deeply sorry. [Laughter] Day two of the stream was very god. [Laughter] I didn't have time to go through Now there was some sense of organization. People who had some kind of experience they the topic about trans-ness could reach out a response, because I wouldn't be able to can talk about whatever they wanted to. At one point, Susie Green, who is the CEO "This fucking guy... He's playing Donkey Kong!" [Laughter] So, as I very sleepily played the mic... [Laughter] ...in my dressing gown, Dan and and she very politely said things about Graham very clever of her. [Laughter] And they also got to go in search At one point, about 27 hours in, I was on runs the YouTube channel Philosophy Tube, Natalie Wynn who runs the channel ContraPoints, and of course, Lindsay Ellis, who runs the channel Lindsay Ellis. [Laughter] And that was when it started to a little cry on the stream, it wasn't embarrassing And I believe it was Lindsay who people sarcastically thanked Graham for all the good he's accidentally done. [Laughter] But I think that's a key part of didn't plan that -- something actually positive and people were getting involved, and it was It was about doing a good thing. We'd flipped a switch, and now it was nice. So the thanking of Graham is sort of this He didn't matter. He didn't even come up for the rest of the It was like he'd been thrown into the memory I'm going to update it. It's like if a big, purple man had snapped [Laughter] Because, at this point, I'm just At this point, I think I've died and gone to some bizarre hell where something nice happens and then they stab you. So I said, if we raise $100,000, I will write an ancient Egyptian God that I think is fun, more food supplies for the stream, thinking, They'll stop donating to avoid me the embarrassment." [Laughter] I want to thank my friends who picture, and for knowing what was happening I didn't have to explain it. They were like, "Oh, we know!" So, thank you very much! [Laughter] [Applause] So this is the last face camera's on the whole time, it was Because at this point, the stream ceased to I'm just a background character that happens this game, Beaver Bother. Beaver Bother is a minigame made for Donkey It's very difficult to beat. I went on the speedrunning forum. They don't know how exactly how to do it. You kind of run in a circle and pray. [Laughter] And they put this mini-game in You have to do it three times, don't know Three and three-quarter hours are spent on While I'm playing this game and my mind is Casey announces that Chelsea Manning knows And Chelsea Manning logs the heck hangs out and I sleepily say, oh my god, this And then briefly leave to try to figure out we finish it. But then Chelsea hangs out on the stream for pizza, talking about stuff. It's kind of amazing. We get Nat Puff, who I believe is in the audience today, a trans musician, Left At London came on to talk about her work. And then this was the true turning point where This isn't silly anymore, this is a thing. By hour 36, I'm not even present, really. [Laughter] I've desynchronized. [Laughter] Casey and Dan have become full-time They were awake for longer than me and put a very large and diverse group of trans people different countries, different experiences, I joked before that it is no longer just a a lot of friends as a result of this. And I'm very thankful for the work that Casey [Applause] So by hour 39, I'm in bed again and what follows seven hours of trans people just talking about And watching back through, I learned a lot even heard of before to do with the trans The concept of gender euphoria, where you are, which is a thing that doesn't get talked there. But because we actually opened up a platform who had gotten there, we got to hear from talked about because it never gets talked So how are these people going to be heard? It was amazing getting to learn a new thing of. It's wonderful being made to feel like a like this. I'm glad I was wrong about whether or not A trans woman named Melody came on to talk that a call made when she was in a dark place get her back on when Susie was on, the CEO That, for me, is one of the highlights of At this point, people who do video game stuff Romero, and Josh Sawyer, the developer of rights" and throw their support behind this. Cool people are retweeting the stream. At one point, Neil Gaiman did, which is cool. One of the goals we put at the bottom of the good book, thanks." [Laughter] So, with all these people coming Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez on. It was a funny joke, and I laughed! But, and I cleverly mentioned this before, happens to be friends with her. [Laughter] So this is the face I made when Now, 50 hours into this nightmare Donkey Kong, Dan, Chelsea, and Casey interviewed future President of the United States... [Loud Applause] ...and my close personal friend ran around in circles trying to find a switch We raised $10,000 over the duration of this And I remember -- I have to remember -- that a video that NowThis made about this moment, So shout out to Unidentified Caller. I like to think we're all Unidentified Caller, But my actual favorite moment in in. One of our guests on was with their partner they had a GoFundMe for their wheelchair. They wanted to get a new wheelchair because equipment. The goal was PS750 pounds. And four minutes later, they hit refresh on over their initial goal. [Applause] And as this couple burst into shocked that, oh yeah, this stuff affects people and people about things. In hour 57, after having literally dozens humanity, on this increasingly public platform completed the game and Dan let everyone in It's utter chaos. [Laughter] But there's a beautiful moment and for a split second, a trans woman, who "I just want everyone to know that I'm [Laughter] [Loud cheering] So as the stream as you can see, it's actually ended, we London's song, Revolution Lover, which is crying, and just melted down in my chair and So I went to bed and I left the to wind the stream down if they wanted to If a lot of people donate to a thing, it gets up just because of the frequency that people The final total is just over $350,000, and to Mermaids made during the stream. [Loud Applause] Susie offered to send me pizza I was like, I live in the woods, you can't Nothing delivers here. That was a true story. I've since moved to Wales, so now no one I live next to a carpet factory. Anyway, but instead, she offered to take me So me and my friend Shaun, who did a lot of went out and had pizza with them. She mentioned that because of this, the frequency that's really great, because I was worried and people wouldn't actually think about So once again, people proved me wrong by being Just incredible, so, it's good! Pretty nice. [Laughter] The PS500,000 pounds they were lasted five years. So that money is just over half of that. So we funded two and a half years of an operation And interesting enough, when you work on a funds are ring-fenced. You can't spend the money on anything else. If you want to expand anywhere else, that's You can't do that legally speaking. But the money we raised, they can do whatever Which is pretty cool. It's a minor legal thing, doesn't matter, I'm old enough to pay taxes now, But speaking of that money, after reviewing the many horribly written emails... [Applause] Now, I would absolutely love to The emails they were getting were ridiculous, really. But also, that's pretty cool. [Laughter] So that was just a play-by-play for, but I was mostly either asleep or zoned But anyway, what did I learn? Because what I learned, I need to center my Because sitting and watching this beyond my control, I realized some things got the chance. I'm not sure how over time I've gone, but The first is that change is granular. We like to think of history as a series of age every single time. Someone decides not to go to the back of the Or Hamilton comes out, and racism is over. [Laughter] But it turns out these things are My friend May, who runs the YouTube channel amazing videos I can't stop plugging, mentioned part. What matters is the support, the sense of You can make a very big difference in someone's with the wheelchair was amazing -- but also people know that you care and that they are Often we don't like to say that, it's easier with than it is to tell them that you like So on that note, I love you. [Laughter] Change is granular. So there, that slide's done. The next thing is community is magical. I emulated GDQ and brought on people who emulated And actually, by letting the trans community, for them, it became a momentary consensus And ultimately, that's how things really get I'm just a guy who played Donkey Kong. But a lot of people wanted the thing I what mattered. I really didn't do anything, I was in bed The other lesson I learned is a It's that your friends will save you. If you surround yourself with people who you a thing you were doing out of spite into an I feel like I was saved partially I think secretly, we're always making one even if we don't know we're making it. You're either choosing to make life worse people you care about. There is an actual difference, and I didn't of people came over and helped change the [Applause] This next thing is a lesson: learn You can plan things in advance! [Laughter] And also, to really make a difference We've just seen a very wonderful talk from you need to do things. Like ultimately, basically, 90 percent of That's not activism, that's not really I don't feel like I'm really contributing I think we have to work together to find ways ultimately won't, even if we feel like we And I think it's very easy to want change do this? And I didn't achieve any of that with this. But I realized, that was a thing I could have So I figured I might. Someone else do a better thing than me, that's the general point of this. And the last thing is more people care than you think. I expected everyone to go, oh, that's nice, But it turned out that an awful lot of people currencies -- you get an email from PayPal before, and you have to manually accept the I spent 48 hours after the stream accepting all around the world because it turns out this issue. I think very often, because of the complete that means "workers not owning anything" on your own here, but it turns out we're actually XOXO is a wonderful place, there's some But it turns out that there's a maximum size we can actually imagine. The list of people who don't understand these people don't exist, is unfortunately quite But the list of people who believe and actually longer, and that's the main thing that I learned. So thank you all very much for redeeming my [Applause]