Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with more of This time we're enjoying the delights of it's the chateaux of Thanks for joining us. Awe-inspiring castles are scattered all over Europe, but no place is as renowned for a region synonymous with the Loire Valley of France. This time we start with enjoy a river that marks play with Leonardo's inventions admire the ultimate in feed the dogs... and eat well ourselves, before enjoying the garden France, has historically been The chateau-studded is a two-hour drive south Using the town of Amboise we tour four unique castles: Chambord, Chenonceau, Because of its the fertility of its land, and its long the Loire Valley is home to a dizzying variety of The earliest were designed But when a &quot;valley address&quot; for France's royalty the old medieval towers were The Loire River's place goes back to the very foundation As if to proclaim the Loire is the last major With no dams, We'll start with the biggest. Chambord is the granddaddy of Far bigger than your average it has 440 rooms and a fireplace It's surrounded by Europe's It's a game preserve defined by and still home Exploring the vast domain you can imagine royal hunting Chambord began as a simple and eventually became to the royal sport Of course, good horsemanship is Throughout the region to see horses prancing Starting in 1519, the French had this royal retreat built, employing 1,800 workmen Francois I with the emphasis on In 32 years of rule, he never once called that's the rudimentary old regime France -- This immense hunting palace was another way The architectural plan was modeled after It feels a like a place designed This castle, built while the pope a new St. Peter's Basilica was like a secular rival Like a cross crowns the tip-top of is capped with symbol of Each floor of the main structure four equal arms of a cross branching off of which leads up to a cupola. Grand apres-hunting parties were held under these fine Constructed for Francois I, his emblem -- the salamander -- The hunting theme carries on This room features paintings from Chambord's Typical of royal chateaux, Back then, any king had to be to effectively That's why he'd have and they sat empty Back in the 1600s, renovating this place, and he Touring the lavish apartments you notice, everything inside easily dismantled and moved with the royal entourage. Because French kings the entire court and its A royal chateau 11 months out of the year, and then suddenly spring to life Imagine the royal roadies setting up a kingly room busily hanging tapestries, assembling beds, unfolding chairs, wrestling big trunks just before the arrival of The French word for furniture, literally means The fancy spiral staircase continues to decorated by a pincushion of From here, ladies could scan enjoying the spectacle of their ego-pumping men On hunt day, a line of beaters and work their way inward flushing wild game That's where the king and his The Loire River, separating northern has come to define this popular The value of this river in the center of the country have made the Loire a strategic hence all these castles. This river has long been Over a thousand years ago, when the Moors invaded Europe this is as far north In World War II, this marked the border between And even today, when people refer to northern this river marks the border. Traditional flat-bottomed boats romantically moored are a reminder of the age before when it was river traffic that safely and efficiently of stone and timber. With the prevailing winds sweeping upstream from barges, loaded with construction raised their sails Then, on the way back, boats flowed downstream This transportation for shipping all And the region's thick forests firewood, It's no wonder that castles were in the Middle Ages. Long before this strategic valley no-nonsense medieval castles. The royal connection goes back to that's about Because of a dynastic dispute, the English had a serious claim and by the early 1400s they controlled much of France, France was at a low ebb, and its kings retreated here to rule what remained of When the threat and the kings returned to Paris, man of their their Loire castles France rebounded and eventually tossed Still, the French kings continued to live in for the next two centuries, having grown comfortable with the chateau culture The climate was mild, hunting was good, dreamy rivers made wealthy friends lived in similar and the location was close but still far enough away. For France, the 16th century was With relative peace there was no longer a need deep within the country. The most famous luxury masquerading as were built during this period. Extravagant chateaux like these They were the fancy of insiders who controlled the Of course, that all changed with when the working class rose up, chased the bankers off their estates, and ransacked Today scores of these castles and are open to visitors. Modern-day aristocratic struggling with enjoy financial assistance if they open their mansions Straddling the Loire River, with a pleasing old quarter A castle has overlooked since ancient Roman times. As the royal residence of little Amboise wielded far more from a lazy walk pedestrian-only The busy, pedestrianized survives from Back then, when the town spread and was the second capital of The chateau of Amboise of several kings. Today visitors can stroll and enjoy commanding views. Here in the Loire, you'll notice the impact of When French big-shots they returned inspired by the art and architecture Tastes in food, gardens, were all influenced by And Francois I did what he could to physically bring It just made sense -- the ultimate invited the ultimate Italian Leonardo da Vinci, The king set Leonardo up a small mansion In 1516, Leonardo da Vinci accepted the position of to France's Renaissance king, The 64-year-old Leonardo in the court of Clos-Luce the everyday atmosphere Leonardo the great hall where he received his bedroom, and the fine kitchen provided by the king. Enjoying the patronage of Leonardo pursued his passions This romantic painting shows comforting his genius pal Clos-Luce displays models of built according to his notes. Leonardo was fascinated and was brilliant in 500 years ago, when Leonardo the resume he sent to kings It read something like, &quot;I can help your army flying machines, water pumps, and rapid-firing guns.&quot; The chateau's grounds are a kid-friendly, with life-size models of Leonardo dreamed up. While parents relax, kids spin the helicopter, raise heavy stones pump water upward ponder tanks and machine guns... [Recorded gunfire playing] and propel boats The pastoral Loire Valley hides While you'll likely it's important to Rather than seeing a string of we've lined up several distinctly While Chambord was grandiose, The chateau of Chenonceau This 16th-century arches gracefully over Its formal garden combined with makes it one of the great sights The palace is with bouquets of fresh flowers adding fragrance, and an included audio-guide making sure visitors understand Big fireplaces warmed big beds while portraits of give the place While the tapestries they also functioned to depict to the king's liking, These 16th-century tapestries Chenonceau was the first With its ravishing grand gallery it was designed for Nicknamed the &quot;chateau of Chenonceau housed many famous In 1547, King Henry II gave the original castle Diane de Poitiers. She added an arched bridge When the king died, Catherine de' Medici, She threw out the mistress, turned Diane's bridge into and, according to legend, above the fireplace Big personalities like kings tickled more than one tiara Mistresses were Louis XV decorated this palace with a painting of featuring his three Now, that's the arrogance A powerful queen or mistress often managed to get even when the king's romantic In many cases, would be away on work or at war leaving home-improvement the lady of the chateau, We're back in Amboise. And a day of chateau-hopping an elegant meal. My friend and co-author of Steve Smith, is joining us, as is so often the case, The rustic yet elegant serves delicious and well and is a hit with locals. Its tiny kitchen Tell me what you're having STEVE: I ordered shrimp so, it's freshwater shrimp -- RICK: Tell me about this, Escargot is famous that's where it started. But it became popular. Every region in France RICK: The rose is refreshing, It's summer, August in France, -Even escargot, red meat? Oh, here we go, That one for there. And I will take this one. Oh! Thank you. -These are classic dishes. I have duck. Yeah, duck seems to be pretty It is, it's on every menu. It's normal. It's like the chicken But when you look at the price, You're right, in a sense, That adds up to about 25%. People should remember that It's included. Aurora, the restaurant's owner, enthusiastically introduces us &quot;Alors,&quot; you have a local You have Selles-sur-Cher, and Pouligny-Saint-Pierre. After, you have some cow cheese. I have just one local cow. It's creamy and soft and it's from The name: the Dreux. You have stronger than with the Langres from Champagne. If you like from Savoie, From the north, Pont-l'Eveque, Normandy. Saint-Nectaire, Murol, and Fourme d'Ambert blue cheese So, you have goat cheese and it goes from mild to strong, and it's like a map of France. AURORA: Mm-hmm, yes, exactly, &quot;Le fromage, vin rouge, &quot;C'est formidable.&quot; Every place we're visiting is within an hour's drive of And the drives are so scenic, you almost wish The stately hunting palace is immaculately preserved. Because it was built in just 30 years it offers a pleasing and unity of style. The chateau has been in the same and the intimate details, like the wedding dress are a reminder that the marquise Formal rooms like this, with a fine 17th century and centuries-old feel like museums. But upstairs, the family The library shows a love of The children's room features And this clock does it all, showing the stage of the moon, Its second hand has been ticking When the Revolution hit in 1789, many palaces were trashed; some were even But many survived. Some were lucky. Some had fast-talking owners And others, like Cheverny, had a reputation for being [Barking, howling] And back then, a big part of and still does. The Marquise hunts in season. Feeding time for his hounds The hounds -- and half French Poitou -- get worked up knowing The master moves them out The excitement is palpable. The trainer, who knows each of opens the gate as the dogs gather It's an exercise in Finally, he gives the signal The Loire, nicknamed is blanketed with and dotted A short drive takes us to Chateaux all have but one is a destination specifically for For my favorite gardens it's gotta be Villandry. Finished in 1536, Villandry was the last great built on the Loire. And all attention here is on arranged in elaborate and immaculately maintained. It's a hit with gardeners. Like so many this was the pet project of Jean le Breton, Francois I, Well-traveled Jean was inspired So, when he built his chateau, The 100,000 plants, half of which come from are replanted twice a year Posted charts and maps identify The place is Stroll under through a good-looking and among Anjou pears. The earliest Loire gardens grown in the Middle Ages by abbey monks who needed And those monks liked Later, Italian influence arbors, and fountains. And harmonizing all the elements of 16th-century Loire chateaux. Today's beautiful gardens a careful reconstruction of what might have been, are the result of generations The chateaux of the Loire Valley have been shaped by the ups from defensive forts to the target of Thankfully, many survived and have become appreciated The Loire Valley, has found a place in and is treasured by those who Thanks for joining us. Until next time, - So, when it comes to the menu? [Rick laughing] I can help your army by tanks, gear systems, water [Laughing] STEVES: So, perhaps your used this as a den chair. VISCOUNT: No, because --