- [OverSimplified] This video Click the link below and get an exclusive deal Also, check out the merch store the last remaining bucket And I'm not done yet. We've partnered with YouTooz to bring you an exclusive OverSimplified Roman Consul figure. Get it while you can at But it's limited edition. So So go and buy it now! Hey! What are you still doing here? I said go and buy it now! All right, our beloved Okay, thank you one and fighting in the First Punic War. Would've been nice if you'd won. Maybe tried a little harder. But this isn't the finger I know you all have one &quot;Hey, when are we all getting paid?&quot; (crowd cheering) All right, all right, simmer down! Remember you lost, you, okay. Jim, why don't you tell them? I'm not telling them, you tell them! Ugh. Look, you're not getting paid. (crowd gasps) We lost the First Punic war and owed the Romans a ton of reparations. Of course we can't pay you in full. Let's burn this place to the ground! (crowd cheers) Hey! Hey! Don't burn this place to the ground! Come on, fellas. Will killing us really about your money? Yes. Way to go, sir. Shut up, Jim! You're fired! I guess that makes two of us. Huh? (yells) (suspenseful music) In the aftermath of the First Punic War, Carthage's disgruntled mercenaries left unpaid for all and Carthage found itself caught up in an extremely destructive Mercenary War. The panicked Carthaginians to fight the mercenaries and Carthage came dangerously All the while, across the Ha. Look at those morons. We just kicked their and now their own Ha ha. Yeah. Wait, First Punic War? You mean there's gonna be a second one? Well, we're definitely taking so almost certainly yes. The Romans did in fact take Amongst the chaos, rebels on the Carthaginian sent out a cry for help to Rome. &quot;Hot diggity dog,&quot; said the Romans, &quot;that's free real estate.&quot; And so in they went. Whoa, whoa, whoa. That's our island! Get the hell off! Hey, they requested our Oh, no, you don't. Look, we're sending our own army to deal with the rebels, okay? But just to be clear, we're not trying to So you know, don't declare War! We surrender! Great and as part of the peace treaty, we get to keep these islands. No! The Carthaginians we're hopping mad. As if their humiliating loss in the First Punic War wasn't bad enough, the Romans now took advantage and stole their islands. This shocking land grab even by Roman standards. Additionally, the Romans now even more money on top If Rome was trying to make they were doing a fantastic job. The seeds of a Second and they were being watered Resentment in Carthage Eventually, Carthage solved thanks to Carthaginian military genius and hero of the First He sorted those naughty mercenaries out with some good old fashioned atrocities and the destructive Still, all was not well. In Carthage, mere decades ago, they were the top dogs in Now, after the crushing and a huge bill to pay the Romans, Carthage was well and What on earth were they supposed to do? If they wanted any chance at regaining their former strength, there was one thing they Money. But as long as they owed there was nothing they could do. Fortunately for them, amongst their ranks, there with one big clump of a brain. Me! - [Senators] Hamilcar Barca? - Yes. Wait, why do you all have (yells) I have it too! That's right, hero of the First Punic War, greatest general alive and Hamilcar Barca had an idea. All right, we need money? Well, I've got one word for you. Spain. An area filled with lucrative silver mines from which the silver and our pockets would be stuffed like Tony's mother at a buffet. Hey! You send me with an army to Spain, I'll expand our territory, get those silver mines up and running, and we'll be able to pay Okay, but just to check, you're not secretly raising the money to go on a bloodthirsty revenge Because we can't afford that. Hanno, my dear, I'm simply going to pay them back. Well, that wasn't reassuring. Few in Carthage were as in the First Punic War as Hamilcar Barca. 98% of his brain matter to thoughts of revenge. He was also fed up with the for what he deemed a cowardly betrayal when they surrendered at And so for Hamilcar, going to Spain meant being able to act independently from the weak Carthaginian government, building his own strength, and then perhaps somewhere However, he wasn't going Hannibal. Yes, father? Would you like to come with me Oh boy, would I! Barbara, mind if I take our I want to implant an intense and prepare him for a glorious (sighs) Just try not No promises. The young boy Hannibal watching, learning. Boy, you see that city over there? Yes, father? That is Rome. Do you know No, Father. We hate them, Hannibal. We hate them with every But why, Father? Can't I No son! They took everything from us. Our land, our wealth, our pride. Those animals! I'll tear I'll burn their pathetic Dad? I'm sorry, son, I've just never I'll slaughter their people. I'll cut off their faces (sobs) I love you, son! After taking Hannibal and having him swear an oath off dad and son went for their lovely beach holiday in Spain. But Spain was already inhabited And when Hamilcar suddenly they were like, hey, who the hell are you? What are you doing here? I'm teaching my son how to Aw! Well, that's sweet. Well then little guy, Good boy. As Hamilcar got to work and expanding Carthaginian influence, Hannibal became a child of war, even earning battle scars from a young age and he grew to become a great making his father very proud. I love you so much, son. Dad, not in front of the enemy! (army laughing) You killed that guy so well, son. (army laughing) The Barcas successfully got those silver mines up and running, and were sending buckets of cash back to a money-starved Carthage. And symbolizing Carthage's a beautiful new city would New Carthage with a magnificent Carthage is back, baby! What in the name of (yells) Romans! Flowing silver mines? Dancing elephants? What are you up to, Hamilcar? I'm simply gathering the Oh. Oh, okay then. Or are you rebuilding strength to go on a bloodthirsty revenge spree? Like I said, Claudius, I'm simply trying to pay you back. Aw, you guys are hugging. No, we're not! I was. I was hugging! (sobs) Hamilcar had practically carved out a kingdom for himself in Spain, free from the meddling His power was becoming immense. But dad. Yes, my son? I'm confused. Are we really We're not gonna go on a Of course we are. I'm just saying that to get Listen, here's the most I have for you: vengeance is everything. An all-encompassing thirst for vengeance is great for your mental health. Are you still confused? No, no, I get it now. But what if the Romans They won't find out. Why? Well Hannibal, because I use NordVPN! I'm confused again. Do you like your computer being hacked, all your passwords being stolen and used to create a fake virtual you who drains your mom's bank account? Me neither. And that's why I use NordVPN. These days, hackers are while you're only getting dumber. Whether it's convincing phishing attacks, fake wifi networks, or clicking that opens the door to a you need to protect with NordVPN. NordVPN allows you to that encrypt your data and keeps you safe by blocking malicious websites with their threat protection feature. With NordVPN you can also and take advantage of better deals or content not available in your country. And if you don't like it, it comes with a 30 day So go to nordvpn.com/oversimplified to get an exclusive deal with a huge discount That's nordvpn.com/oversimplified. And as always, you'll be So thank you. Now, where were we? Oh yeah. Carthaginian tears, a child of war, and the Carthaginian conquest of Spain. The Carthaginian recovery and Rome was seriously alarmed. But they were also preoccupied including an expansionist war to the north where they were enslaving So for now, to keep Carthage in check, the Romans insisted on a new treaty. See this river? The two sides agreed was in Rome's sphere of influence, while beneath it was Carthage. Under no circumstances to expand north of that river. But for now, Hamilcar and Well son, here's to many more years of successful campaigning in Spain. Now if you'll excuse me, I just See you later, son. I love you! What the? Aw crap. I drowned? Oh well. Always remember, son, you are vengeance! Also, delete my browsing history. Hamilcar Barca was tragically and drowned. His son-in-law and no further questions, but he too was later assassinated, leaving finally a 26-year-old Hannibal in charge of the Sources say the men readily He chose to suffer the He lived in the same conditions, was often the first into And it also helped that he He had the total respect of his men. If he said, &quot;jump,&quot; they said &quot;how high?&quot; If he said &quot;tuck me in,&quot; If he said, &quot;talk to a girl they said &quot;that's impossible. An army that would follow for exacting his vengeance against Rome. Hannibal's army had become a strong and loyal fighting force, and that was making a certain Seeing Carthage restrengthened so quickly was not something Rome had expected. Yet here they were, paying off their debts and expanding their territory. It didn't feel very much like Carthage was under Rome's thumb at all and Rome wanted to put an end to it. Tensions were strung tighter and all it would take was one incident to trigger all-out war. And in 219 BC, a city in Spain would find itself at the very center of that fateful incident, Saguntum. Remember that treaty declaring everything south of this river to be Carthage's sphere of influence? Well, Saguntum should therefore obviously be Carthaginian, right? Wrong! Saguntum had actually scored itself an informal alliance with Rome after Rome had helped it With Carthaginian encroachment, Saguntum began to fear and Rome declared itself But this clearly went against so what on earth was Rome doing? Were the Saguntines and It's possible. Or was Rome deliberately with Hannibal's Spanish expansion and maintain a staging post More likely. And Hannibal certainly viewed as an outrage. Yet another example of Roman arrogance. At first, he left Saguntum alone. But having learned from his and having inherited his father's dream of bringing Rome to its Hannibal may have begun to see Could this controversial alliance be just what devilish to kickstart a second war with Rome and restore Carthaginian dominance? It's even possible that Rome to goad Hannibal into a fight so they could go and And as the two giants began the poor people of Saguntum had no idea that they were about to be Hey, your alliance with and we won't stand for it. They're our friends Hannibal, and if you lay a finger on Yeah, Hannibal! Back the hell off! War, eh? I was thinking I might and massacre their people. I hope you do, Hannibal! Yeah, we hope you do, Hani- Wait, what? Maybe I will. Go ahead, kill them all. Uh. Fine. Okay. Consul? Consul? You're gonna protect Consul?! Oh no! To top it all off, when the Saguntine people of raiding into Carthaginian In an action that was guaranteed to provoke the Romans into war, The siege of Saguntum before Hannibal broke and turned Saguntum into a killing field. It was a massacre. What the hell? Tell me I didn't just catch the Saguntise! Well Consul, if you like perhaps you should Sagundeez nuts! (all cheering) Hearing word of the attack on Saguntum, Rome was understandably in an uproar and all eyes were now fixated As Rome sent a delegation to Carthage led by one of the most highly Fabius Maximus. He demanded an answer for Hannibal's sins. All right, listen up scum. You've got a rogue general in What are we supposed to do about it? Well, there shouldn't have even You're the aggressor here! Hand Hannibal over to us as a criminal so we can punish him severely. No. No. No! I hold in the folds of my Which one should I let drop? Whichever one you want! Then I choose war! (dramatic music) The Second Punic War had begun. Pack it up boys we've got 'em! We already destroyed these clowns once, and we were the underdogs! Now, we're the, over dogs? Hotdogs. This is gonna be E-Z. Here's the plan. Consul Longus, you take your army and sail straight for Carthage. Burn that city to the ground! And Consul Scipio, you and make sure this Hannibal I mean, what's he gonna (all laugh) We're going to what?! Cross the Alps! We're going to what?! I just told you. Hannibal, we'll freeze to death! Trust me, Jerome. The Romans are expecting us to fight the same way we did last time, passively, taking no initiative. They think it's gonna be E-Z. So this time, we have to be aggressive. We have to go on the attack! It sickens me to say this, but this time we have to (all gasp) You mean we're gonna take But I'm insecure about my hairy legs! No! I'm saying this time we're Think about it. Rome thinks they're and win the war. So when they suddenly find from the north, they'll freak out like Tony's mother when the Hey! I gotta admit, it's And my hairy legs will That's the spirit! Hannibal, you have my sword. And my spear. And my legs! Bleugh. Hannibal's plan, a daring Alpine was a bold but risky strategy. If it paid off, he could catch the Romans with their pants down, but a ton of men and supplies in the hostile mountain conditions. Nevertheless, in 218 BC, and some vengeance in his belly, of almost a hundred thousand They spent months on the road hostile mountain conditions. And when they finally they said, &quot;Hooray! We did it. We crossed the Alps.&quot; No, those were the Pyrenees. Those are the Alps. (wind whooshing) (army crying) After crossing the Pyrenees, the army then had to pass a vast territory filled many of whom were hostile His journey to the Alps as he was forced to fight his way through and incurred pretty hefty losses before even reaching the mountains. His plan was almost stopped as the Roman Consul Scipio discovered Hannibal was Suddenly, Hannibal's journey became a race as he rushed to get his massive army across the vast Rhone River before the Romans could intercept him. The crossing was chaotic, with the panicking elephants And the first combat of the war occurred when small scouting parties from each side encountered one another. When Scipio finally caught what he found was an Hannibal had slipped through his fingers. The Roman Consul Scipio felt Quite unbelievably, Hannibal was going to and the Romans had no idea For the first time, a Carthaginian force had the Scipio sent his men but he himself rushed so that if Hannibal survived the crossing, Scipio would be there waiting. Would you look at that, boys? We're here! The Alps! Although it is a little Yeah, it's kind of chilly. We'll set up camp here and It's way too cold, right? Hannibal? (wind whooshing) Hannibal's famous crossing It was already autumn and It was cold. Men would fall They starved, they fell off Some sources say they had and would finish off dying comrades in order to take their And then, they would fall Imagine an army of 50,000 supplies and 37 elephants the most hostile mountain range in Europe. And it wasn't just nature Tribes people lived in the mountains and they couldn't believe A tribe approached Hannibal and said, hey man, geez, that's some Man, I'd really like that armor. Hey boss! They've got food as well. Shut up! Be cool. Hey, why don't you let us guide you through this narrow gorge? We're not gonna kill you or nothing. Just walk right on through It's just right this way. We're not gonna kill ya! Hannibal's army were through the gorge as massive boulders rained Some clever reorganization of and they were able to fend But losses from the As the journey continued, would get stuck on the ice sheets below and had to make a grizzly choice between starving to death or When the deeply demoralized and rested for a couple days, Hannibal tried to lift their Look, men! down there, it's Rome. These plains stretching are bountiful with food Move, Bessie! Look! You have just The hard part is over. From here on out, it's all downhill and nobody else will die! Except for them. The rest of us here, no one dies. Starting now. Okay, let's go. Oh for goodness sake! As it turned out, the descent with the cold really starting to set in. The path became even more narrow. And at one point, the men spent three days in the freezing cold When they finally reached the bottom, Hannibal said look guys, we did it! (army groaning) Well, I thought it went really well! When Hannibal left Spain, he had about a hundred thousand men. By the time he reached the Italian plains, his numbers had dwindled to about 26,000. He was now caught in enemy territory without a supply line or a And any elephants who had were almost certainly traumatized. So what on earth was Hannibal up to? This supposed military genius had just led a starving and weakened army right into enemy territory. Any modern general who lost would be immediately fired and possibly even depantsed on live TV. Here's the thing, while on losing quite so many men, he had almost certainly and he always had a plan Need men? Northern Italy was full of All the men Hannibal would These Celts were filled with resentment, having only recently Hannibal hoped to be seen as a liberator, convince the Celts to cut ties with Rome, and instead join him in crushing Rome. That way, he could gain a and supplies right in Rome's backyard. But sir, in order to win we would need to make a on them. How do we get 'em to like us? Hmm. Kill them. One of Hannibal's first actions in Italy was to obliterate a nearby This sent a clear message It was his wrath they The realization that a Carthaginian army had just invaded them must have been shocking for the Romans. But when they looked at this rag tie group broken by the Alps, they couldn't have felt very intimidated. However, Hannibal was now in Italy and he was about to embark on one of the most in all of human history. The Romans may not have known it yet, but there was now a monster and he was vying for Roman blood. (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues)