Outfitted with cameras and This autonomous robot is looking for out of stock These cameras on the side shelves that are then environment to determine out-of-stock, what's wrong position. Inventory is one of the face. Missed sales from out-of-stock items cost US 2021, or about $1.6 billion So this would tell us that probably need to get more back stock and brought out Almost half of retailers their biggest challenge in Retailers are spending a lot coming into their stores systems. They know quite a selling and that are their stores on a daily good model of what's shelves. But an army of inventory that would help retailers boost sales and respond to Almost 900,000 retail jobs November 2022. The retail industry employs Americans. Retailers are competing in a still, and they're often that are more physically box or refilling a shelf. So instead they're using automation to fill those people do skills that use of the skills that a robot replicating. These robots are really brick-and-mortar to evolve market where you can order The inventory robot market Other companies in the and Bossa Nova Robotics. So what impact will retailers and the Keeping shelves fully job for retailers in recent Fewer truck drivers, higher issues, severe weather and preferences have caused a toilet paper and eggs to The baby formula shortage is Grocery store shortages are Tonight, empty shelves nationwide. Some retailers shortages are becoming as start of the pandemic. An out-of-stock item is when without purchasing what The product could be in a aisle or on the shelf, but display. The biggest challenge that out-of-stocks. Being able how to get inventory on the That's their number one While some issues are driven issue. The rise in pet example, led to shortages dogs and cats. About 23 million American during the pandemic. And the problem isn't A key component of retail correct amount of inventory available to shoppers. On average for every dollar a $1.35 worth of inventory In the old days, 20-30 years our data with our reality We would send people down physically count. We have this item. They'd be device and it would be mismatched. This could take Not having a product while frustrating for a disastrous for a retailer. Out-of-stocks costs of the initial sale, but in secondary sale and customer loyalty. Confronted with an empty they postponed their and 16% shopped online. Excess inventory in some problem. Surplus inventory many products on hand, like the Spring, or an furniture in the Fall. In many cases, those discounted. If we've invested all of our product that doesn't see retailers having to cost. So they've lost money they've lost opportunities. Often if it's truly surplus away or salvaged. To help manage their number of retailers like Wholesale are turning to beef up their operations. Inspecting store aisles has retail workers who check compliance and maintain the When done by a human, the and not always entirely Based in San Diego, got its start in 2009 as a Qualcomm. Before moving into inventory self-driving technology for We looked at an application high labor component and a typical robotics dirty, And that led us into the With just 50 machines company raised $114 million SoftBank Vision Fund. Today, it has over 26,000 and hospitals. We started looking in that find what are the other be able to solve. In 2022, Walmart-owned Sam's relationship with Brain robots to its 600 stores. The dual purpose machines technology by Brain Corp to the store, cleaning floors way. Robots like this one used to scan store shelves, assist with navigation. Customers purchase the third party manufacturer the software. The software robot is in the hundreds of The inventory scanning is a We've got four cameras on facing the shelf as it's scan it. And we've got side to be able to look reserve steel sections of their products on the All that information is it's in the cloud where we layers. So that's where we on making sense of the that's Snickers. And this example, but also the price For retailers that are of the advantages is they more data about what by monitoring inventory. They're not just making They're also getting demand and what's not. And that's retailers often struggle A stock keeping unit is an assigns to a product to another. A Walmart have more than 100,000 SKUs that has about 30,000 SKUs. Inventory robots benefit too, like freeing workers potentially lowering labor More than a third of US shortages are their biggest Now, before the scrubber, It required associates to location, count how much is at, etcetera. So what this do is take all this off of our associates. For example, if a grocery employee at each location counted inventory for two that one task could save million annually. This is where the robots can Being able to do this basis, they don't. They don't call out sick. They don't get tired. daily basis. The median salary for a $29,000 a year. More than 50 million US 2022. I worked in a small grocery assigned the baking aisle, physically counting how chocolate chips were in How many of each kind of It was extremely time It was very frustrating. The precision at which you much higher than a person Based in San Francisco, in 2014. The following year, it inventory robot Tally. With more than a dozen 15 to 30,000 products per hours to scan a added Tally across its 237 On top of inventory robots, rise as well. Amazon launched its first Proteus over a decade ago. Today, the e-commerce giant warehouse robots worldwide. The warehouse robotics billion in 2021 and is billion by 2027. A similar expansion of could be coming to brick I would envision the move moving products within horizon, I believe, within Because those associates orders for our members. Well, if we could find a actually bring the the order to them and then it ready for the member, quicker. We might even be Brain Corp rolled out its 2020 to move inventory from shelf. However, the company current form was too large and said further It's not mature and it's public space for move. So we've done some and piloting with with tug products within those I'll say that we're ready capture that market with emerges. Everything is the biggest because everything about it the motor control to making everything reliable. Despite those headwinds, common sight at grocery nationwide. The ability to now have a aisle and collect that basis or even just a benefit to retailers who information. What robots can bring to the They will run every day. They will run up and down They don't miss things by In general, retailers are sophisticated about tasks instead turned to robots more efficiently at a lower And that may mean people that may mean that there people.