How were you as a child? Well, I was very smart and I was a rebel. So I was an agitator right I really had to find my own truth. I didn't know you were How did you choose? I didn't choose it. my life wanting to be a doctor. But my ADD got in the way. So to get into medical school, And my brain is not oriented At some point, you observed Yeah. How did Like? So at some point I had to realize my own mental balance, to So it's when you recognize the harm, that's when you have to acknowledge If your response is anger, If you want to see anger, deal with a teenager and try taking his cell phone away. How did you become attracted That right from the beginning, she saw And she made it her duty dispel, evaporate the darkness. But that's not her job. She should never have taken it on. Nobody should have taken the job It's their job. If you were a fresh parent in today's world, and what would you focus on? If I was a new parent today, for many, many, many years. I would not let them see a screen. This very special episode by Banca Transilvania. Hello everybody. I am extremely excited in English. It's the that we're doing in English As you've probably seen from the thumbnail episode we have Dr. Gabor Mate. It is probably my greatest since I've been doing to have the chance to be part And before we get the I have a very special guest with me here, wouldn't have been possible. Cristina Bara, the director Thank you, Cristina, Thank you for having me here. I am very happy that together You're also the facilitator in Compassionate Inquiry in the neuroaffective with the wonderful book that we talked about previously, and currently training So Cristina is one conversation possible. and he's going to participate we're publishing this, in the National Compassionate Inquiry, for Compassionate Inquiry Practitioners. And because Compassionate Inquiry is I'd like you to share a few words with Compassionate Inquiry And then guys, we're going with Gabor. Thank you so much It's a great pleasure. And, you know, on and finding some parking slots, as you know. Like we're Yes, of course. And I almost had tears in at the moment when it all started. And I have goosebumps right now talking in Compassionate Inquiry in January 2019. It was the first cohort And we were like six or seven people from Romania who were doing And since then, Romanian speaker people, And this year we launched the program And it's been quite a journey. I know when I was doing the training, and the material there and so on, with us. And I I want to bring this work in Romania as well. how well you speak English, certain words that have a So... In your national language. Yes. So it's amazing that we And we really want to thank Gabor Mate, for making this work possible. And it's an amazing method from I have enrolled to the Compassionate And I also know you offer that I was one of the people who used Everything was cool. Nothing bad happened. Nothing really bad happened. And it's amazing how the method This is one of the reasons and I'm impressed of how it works. What I'd like you to share thank you for listening to us What are the opportunities, for clients regarding So for our Romanian speaking audience, which is a year-long training mental health practitioners, It's a one-year program, for those who want to certify in Compassionate Inquiry. And if, for example, in learning more about the approach or the resources to invest then they have the option as you did, right? The one, the live one, the first one, is it online? Is it with physical meetings? Everything is online. Because we so they can join anytime your slot. So we publish certain slots, and then you meet regularly with a group during the respective slot. So that's the year-long program. Then we have, as I which is self-guided But you'll get in contact and you'll see Gabor practicing That's the part I love best. The case that is with him working I like that I learn a lot from that just is very insightful. And sometimes it's you just want to close the book So I experienced the same on the stage with people. And then we also have the general audience, in self-development work and to get connect with the body more, with the inner parts towards themselves. of joining a program CompassionateInquiry Circles. So it's a personal development group, maximum 12, 14 people in each group. And they will meet for 10 weeks, with the facilitator and also on themselves. So there's tons of possibility in the near future. I want to congratulate you And I think we, together as a group, with therapy more. For the international audience watching, in the countries where in Romania, a lot or believe they should We have a lot of people that you go to therapy when you're insane. But throughout the years, being part I've seen people opening up more that Compassionate Inquiry is in Romania. You translated the course, We need more, I think, And before we move to the conversation I want to invite you to share in of people who got trained how would you define the method? of Compassionate Inquiry, maybe in comparison or other ways of looking at things. with it for these years That's a very good question, because it makes me But the first image my body was the heart opening. So this is what I experienced. Also joining the training, and we so much need that, Right? Because only that there was a saying when it's not complete So it needs to start of heart opening and then you can connect in a deeper way and this about this community, because it's kind and it's it's beautiful I know from people going training program So this idea that the of healing and change, or the techniques or the tools, the tool is actually something If you walk the talk a lot, And this is what Gabor mentioned, he said, well, you know, that they're gonna join a program and so on, but actually that you're actually working on yourself a lot. And segwaying towards the he's a person that has worked a lot I love the humbleness and he was far more stupid when I love the humor. Yeah, and the and I feel privileged to do this interview because you rarely see somebody and working with themselves, they reach influence, they become icons in a way, And he's one of those people. So thank you again. I'm really happy to have the Before we start the conversation if people want to enroll if they want to become where can they do this in Romania? So they can look up the website, www.compassionateInquiry.com And there on the upper right corner, So press that one and it will and you also have contact details there Excellent, and if they want as the person who's leading where can they find you? cristina@compassionateinquiry.com Excellent. So guys, thank you I hope we're going to be able a very insightful conversation a personal conversation. That's what we're aiming for. I hope for each and every one to have the openness to take in this interview as much as he was open his life work and his personal For the international audience, thank you in Romania, guys. And now with no So guys, when we started the I never imagined that Gabor, to our humble studio. Thank you for being here. And thank you for all the right now. As you know, we talked a little bit that you're very loved in Romania. People have read They appreciated especially I think knows So I'm going to ask into the personal side of the story. I remember you shared many times in life, the first month, in order to protect you I don't remember ever hearing and what happened afterwards. Like, how do you How were you as a child? Well, I was very smart I was a rebel. So under the communist government, I remember once... the government was organizing one the parents had to give money voluntarily, And I remember standing up but this is not fair because, I mean, which means that you know. And then I got a note from the teacher that, that he better watch it So I was an agitator right I really had to find my own truth. I was curious, this was This was in Hungary. In Hungary, before you went to... This is communist Hungary. Until 1956, there was this Stalinist dictatorship under our own version of Ceausescu. His name was Rakoshi. And it was brutal. And of course, I didn't know my parents wouldn't talk politics, you know. And our teachers, I remember one teacher in grade three on December the 28th Boys, this is the shortest day of the year, But this is the darkest day But don't tell anybody I said that there was something bigger going on. And then a revolution happened And all of a sudden, my world changed. So I grew up a rather I really believed in the system. I still believe in the values that they pretended. You know, equality, people not exploiting each other, people being brothers I mean, that's what they taught. And I believed in that. What I didn't realize is the contradiction between what they were saying and what they were actually doing, So it was an interesting childhood. Also at that time, I hate to tell you, in the world. Really? In 1950s. Yeah, yeah. We beat No, we beat everybody. We didn't lose a single game and the Germans beat us. So that was 70 years ago now. No Hungarian who was ever alive then Terrible. And curious, you said you were smart and you were an agitator and to some extent probably Of course. Were you into sports? I wasn't very athletically talented. But one of the benefits of the communist regime So everybody was given or not you're gonna be a champion but I really learned how to swim well. And you know I swam a with really good coaches. So to this day, I swim. yesterday I swam 1600 meters. And so that was really been good for me. So no, I wasn't athletic, but I was a participant. I'm curious, looking back now that you've turned 80, what were in puberty or adolescence? What was most present with you in terms your parents or from about the ADHD diagnosis. How did you experience that and what would Well, adolescence for me because it's a time when It's a very insecure time. It's a time with lots You know, your hormones are coming online. Your sexuality is waking up. You do need a lot And my parents, we just arrived in Canada. I mean, the revolution happened just and we arrived in Canada just three months later. But my parents could because they were too busy in a new country. Plus, I spoke English better So I was more able to orient myself than they were, which means there was kind of a loss And I experienced myself the rapid change and I'd left of budding young Eastern you know. I was reading serious literature We came to Canada. People were interested, you know, and you see history. Cobblestones, old buildings, tradition. Vancouver, which is it's all new, it's all, People have no sense of tradition have So I really felt out of place. And I was lost for a few years. And for a few I started eating lousy, I mean if you have... you should eat Canadian bread. They have no idea about bread there. Now they do because all the immigrants. But then it was all white. chewing cotton batten. And I just watched and basically I gave up What I was passionate about the world. Now looking back that was necessary for me to become acclimatized, to become a Canadian. But it sure felt strange I'm curious, we have a lot of parents in the audience 13. 13, which is an important, It's a difficult time to me. A lot of parents nowadays are moving in the myth of normal, we have a culture but there's no more village. For the parents watching whatever reason, how can they looking back even at your experience? What could have been done, that would have made the Yeah, and those in Romania today. I heard when I got here of children whose parents have After Syria, we're the on earth. Is that the case? Yep. Is 2 million, I think, because they went to work. And that may be necessary, You're losing your context, And your children, if you And I don't know what to say about that. believe they have to do that, why they have to do it. But at least they on the children. And those parents who are here with their kids, but they because the kids are you've got to make sure with them is very special. So don't assume that your kids are your kids They're not. When they don't see you the whole day, their peer group, with their friends, At the end of the day, You have to bring them That means you have to spend quality time and what happened But family meals on the weekends, get them out into nature, away Because maybe they're But what I'm trying to say is, as much and your presence to make up I mean, that's my best advice. Yeah. I remember this from Hold On To your kids. You talk there a lot We have parents that are talking from a first person. If somebody has a child where even maybe they've How can the parents help? What can they do? Because in Romania, a lot that we talked about. some of them are working two jobs and that has an impact on the kids. If you were to look back with What could they do in today's world Well, first of all, that these kids are highly sensitive. They tend to be highly sensitive. They tend to have more asthma, Allergies are called hypersensitivities. These kids are just more sensitive, So whatever is stressful or difficult or painful, they feel There's no point telling them, It's like me telling you, don't be blue-eyed, that's just who you are. You know? And so, and they're very sensitive That's what's genetic about it. That's their nature. The ADD, no matter what you read If it was, it wouldn't Genes don't change in a population So what's changing is the environment. Now if you look at the tuning it's not a disease, And it's one way And usually in families where there's A, you've got a sensitive child, And that infant is absorbing and is protecting themselves by going absent-minded. So it's not a disease, This is at a time And the brain develops So that's the environment can have the same genes and not have ADD. Or have that or some on what happens. So once you realize a kid of all realize they're very sensitive. B, They're probably quite talented Very often they are. They probably have a very warm heart. They sense things At the same time, they feel insecure Because when things are stressed, So what they need more And that means you have Not understand, not just try and teach them better ways but really make them My book on the subject, which has just been republished And I know it sounds but I'm telling you, either yourself or your child, that book is gonna change your life. Because it's all about how to that we can promote healthy brain And if you want to promote development, which is good. Which means that your child for the rest of their lives. my first book, Scattered That was 25 years ago now. And everything I wrote by science ever since. But my most recent book, it came out two years It's much longer. It took a lot more research. I don't need it anymore. So in other words, for healthy brain development So that's my advice is, you've got a decision to make. And you might have to give interests and devote time to this kid and in those few in the long term. I think it's a wonderful perspective and the environment both the environment in our mother's womb, throughout life. But one more thing, Unfortunately, the schools don't get it. They look on these They punish them. They make them feel bad about themselves. In other words, they continually undermine Which makes it worse. Which makes it worse, yeah. And unfortunately, most educators in their training, like most doctors, or brain development or the interaction of emotions and brain development. And yet that's just pure scientific fact. So not just the parents have to change, to really reconsider what they're doing so should the medical profession. Yeah, I completely agree. I've been to several of both the one you did with the Institute and Compassionate Inquiry. that there were teachers in the room. There were doctors, but cardiologists And I remember Petronela posted that you had people from 40 countries at the conference here. I think it was, okay, it was 40. That's what she I don't know. I thought it was even more, Okay. Yeah. I think things are changing for what you're doing. I know, I didn't know this I didn't know you were at some point. And you were How did you choose and literature teacher? I didn't choose it. Ah, okay. What happened was I grew up all All your life? All my life, Now, I don't know why. one is I like the idea Another may have been, Unconsciously, my grandfather who died and a writer. And maybe I wanted to because she really idolized her father. I don't know if that was I'm thinking maybe it was. Also of course as a doctor you're pretty much assured So I had all kinds of reasons. But mostly that's just But my ADD got in the way. So to get into medical school And my brain is not oriented I can study literature, history, and it Because with history and fluent enough that I could read four and the next day write an examination and do okay. But you can't do that in calculus. You can't do that in organic chemistry. You can't do that in physics. You know, so that I didn't want to, I couldn't focus. I wasn't going to work that hard. So I taught high school for three years, my degree. But then this happens to me. I said no Medicine is calling me I didn't choose to become teacher. I did enjoy it, but something and so then Medicine I was 28 that was more mature. I was capable of doing the heavy work. I remember from some of your books because you didn't feel you decided unconsciously to be necessary. And that really struck a chord in me, that didn't feel that type accepting energy when So they decide to become famous You talked about Trump So I really see this In a way, I'm curious your careers, like teaching, becoming a physician, and then teaching again, That's the beauty of it, it all comes around. So, even though I didn't I was pretty good at it, you know. And I'll tell you a story. one of my patients was a very well-known Canadian poet. His name was Warren, and we'd have these conversations. You know, I mean, we'd talk but I always just talked with my patients. And once I said to him, Warren, I want to write, but I don't know what. And he said, you know, Gabor, you'll write when you have something And when I found out about, on medical things, political things, once I found out about And I realized that what the about it is neither intuitive I thought, I got And that became my first book. And then I started speaking about it. So again, I ended up which is partly what I do now. So it forms a perfect circle. I'm curious. I know from your work that you said you, that you were addicted to work. I also had people and it's a very similar theme. I see it in a lot that you could be addicted to work because We're more easily aware of that. Where what was the context in of being addicted to work? Well if we understand what an addiction have anything to do with substances. Addiction is shown in any behavior because it gives you pleasure or relief. And then it causes harm So it could be drugs, opiates, stimulants, could also be shopping, sex, yes, work, extreme sports, gaming, eating disorders, etc, etc, etc. As long as you're craving it And relief. Yeah, in the short term. Or a jolt that you want. And it causes harm. that this is causing harm to to my sense of peace and to my family. So it's when you recognize the harm and you've been keeping doing it, that you have an addiction. In your case did you acknowledge it? With help of other people my personal life and I've seen this my parents, maybe it's not accidental When people would tell you're exhausting yourself And I would say that... You're angry, you said? Yeah, angry. And I would say, Do you think I want to do this? who's going to do it? If I'm not paying the bills, like that. So I'm curious in your life when you had these messages How did you react? Did you have any resistance to it? It's very in my case it was mostly my wife who said, It's not good for me, it's not good And my response is anger. Now, that's very interesting If your response is anger, Because if you weren't an addict, Thank you Thank you and I'll have a look at it. And it really makes a difference to me about me to tell me But the anger is that when somebody's trying to If you want to see anger, deal with the teenager and try taking his cell phone away. If you want to see anger, try dealing his drink away. If you want to see anger, look at yourself when somebody and you get angry because your drug. So those questions that you raised, I have to make a living, those are legitimate, but they're not a cause for anger. What was your process of working with yourself, of healing? When you became aware Well, a lot of things. Psychotherapy. I did a lot of reading. Reading. Reading, yeah. I also did a lot of scientific research. I didn't do the research. I reviewed the research. I attended retreats. But mostly, by far, the biggest work has been Because ultimately, I wanted our relationship to work. So that means I constantly at myself. So that was the biggest ground of my learning. Yeah. I think for many is probably the strongest mirror I find this really interesting. I'm gonna segue since you brought up When did you meet her? I met her when I was 22 for the student newspaper And she was an artist and she was given A caricature? Yeah, so the first time I met I should have known right then and there. She's the one. She's the one, yeah. And how did you feel? How did you become attracted How did you become... Well, I was actually who I was actually deeply in love with. But with Rae, my wife, We just talked so easily together and we played together so well. So it was, you know, apart which wasn't any greater But the soul connection, being able to see the world about the world and about ourselves. And just the playfulness, that's what ultimately cemented I know that she's an artist. Yeah. And I'm curious if in your case, the fact that you were, you're both interested in literature you're open to the arts, and you said like this. Was in your case this idea or was it more the fact Well, it's both. I mean, in some ways, But where we're similar is we share... When we look at the world, So that's a big one. We all think that we We don't live in the same world. And we do see the world much whether it comes to personal relationships or politics, you know. But the other side of it was that when we marry somebody, it's always somebody who's that we're at, at that time. So I was traumatized. under different circumstances, but deeply. And there's something in us with somebody at the same level of trauma. Why is that? Because usually we were traumatized Where did we want to find a our family of origin? So as soon as we sense something that energetically reminds us, but energetically Oh, this is why I want to get to love. And so, you know, Rae's father turned out to have many And Ray also said that right you know, and she was attracted to that. And she also saw my darkness. And she made it her duty dispel, evaporate the darkness. But that's not her job. She should never have taken it on. Nobody should have taken the job It's their job. And it always costs It costs the relationship. But of course, She loved her father, He had also a deep, dark side. And Ray took on very early. But that's her responsibility. You said in the CI conference that men are looking Very often, yeah. Yeah. How does that apply and you met her? Well, We have emotional needs as children. I mean we're it's part of our nature. To the extent that those needs are met, at some point we can meet our own needs and not rely on somebody. but we don't need them anymore to meet To the extent that we don't get what in a kind of a infant role Or we want somebody else in this culture. I tell you an example At this compassionate Inquiry Conference in Bucharest, a lot of people want to get So women come up to me, Sometimes tall women, almost automatically, they all shrink. They make themselves smaller. They're so programmed to meet my infantile needs for feeling good about myself, Yeah. And it's automatic. Then I'm thinking about it. So this is a society where women emotionally speaking. If the men's needs are the woman tends to take that on. And it becomes partly but partly some other child that has two built-in problems, which occurred in my own marriage. one is, it's exhausting for the woman. And it's a source Number one. Number two, the man as much as they want that kind they also resent it. Because they don't want to be controlled. And the women tend to get kind of... You experienced that? Yeah, yeah, we experienced that. my shopping addiction, And I hated it. And thirdly, real children come along that the woman puts from the real children. And the fourth problem is sexual. Because once I get with a woman, no healthy his mother. And no mother wants to sleep No healthy mother wants So sexually, people wonder what happened That's what happened. So not to give away secrets, but you let go of these childlike needs on one hand on the other, the passion can come back. Because now you're with this and you want to be with, That mother-child dynamic is I know you shared in the in the conference that you had moments when the two of you yeah like last week That's my automatic so that's no It's like oh there's a problem here. This is after 55 years. You still feel the automatic one? No, I don't. It's only been very recently Wow. And it could just, I don't do it. My brain does it automatically. The brain says, get out Go find happiness somewhere else. It's like, you know, I'm running away from home, you know, but it's automatic. I really feel you with an Yeah. That's also my default. Not only in couples relationships, when I'm not appreciated, or appreciated, okay, I'm going to be Yeah, that's right. Go away. It's really interesting. in my healing just by reading your books it's an ongoing process. of the most valuable things to the public conversation. The fact that, as you say, I'm 80 which I find endearing and fun. Yeah, it's also true. Yeah, I'm sure it is. I'd like to ask you, one in two people in today's world, more than the rate and in your marriage, you felt the two of you felt When did they appear were they I'd say two major dynamics. one was the unhappiness on our kids. Because they're picking up on all our stresses, all our dysfunctions, all our tensions. And one of them actually said and mom would get a divorce. And I said, why do you say that? my life would be better. Their life would have been better. And going back, my wife 55th anniversary this November, but we also realized at a certain point to separate. Not to permanently say goodbye to each other, And even if... And be together for the children, but not to have the ground Always so stormy and so insecure. And then, you know, it's just your relationship. and we love each other So our kids' difficulties Those are the two drivers And what were the drivers How did you find the resources one of them wasn't a positive one. It was my wife's fear of abandonment and being a mom with kids. of course I would have But her own fear, which had to do with But the positive things, and maybe something similar this is life. It's just Well, this is life. You know, not seeing But the positive drivers that kept us for each other and I mean, we always wanted the truth. Eventually, As much as I might want to deny the truth, So did she. So that we would just stick around You shared even in our conversation now into relationships when they are Staying in a relationship, would you say, your work, requires the two people Well, it's not for me to say but it's a big opportunity Which means looking inside mostly, but trying to understand what is it So often between Ray and I, the problem wasn't what was happening. The problem was how we were thinking how we were perceiving, how we were interpreting you know. And that can change. You know, In a really good marriage, If only one person is growing it's not going to work. In my experience and also looking first you become aware is probably the first step. But sustainable change requires whatever is distorting our reality. In your case, you started I was probably close to 40. Close to 40. Maybe even more than 40. Yeah. I wanted to ask you what were for you? Because I and healing is a process it never ends on some moments when you actually when that something clicked inside Yeah well the therapist a lot of insights, but also very intellectual. So the work I did with him never brought And frankly, also, in retrospect, I mean, for vulnerability, you have to feel really safe. And for good reasons, I had those moments with my wife and I. I really did. just this opening. That happened a lot. But other than that, a big heartening opening Which was late in your life. It was late. It was 2009. Yeah. 65. After 20 years of work. 20 plus years of work. Yeah. Yeah. And I just my heart opening and just the tenderness. Actually, there was And the baby started cooing and making little sounds I appreciate you sharing this. And in Romania still plant work unfortunately. I think that it's important that true change and sustainable healing and the heart? It has to happen in the body. Yes, in the mind And the whole body. It turns out that neurologically, scientifically, not only in our heads, but also in our hearts, I mean literally we have this and our gut and true awareness, I mean true knowledge happens So the knowledge that's it's very important, but it's very limited. And people that are they become professors, you know. And I'm not putting anybody down, of the intellectual life, you know. The benefits, of course, for true knowledge to wisdom of the Gut brain and the heart brain between them Plant medicine aside. Yeah for people who embrace this idea and who've been to therapy, their childhood, they see the or they read other books Could you share some of the moments and your kids that helped that had nothing to do like formal therapy contexts? Yeah, just the biggest need you know, shelter and food and so on, And apart from physically being is to be seen and understood. And the greatest trauma, and not being understood. So when I really see her, I'm no longer seeing my interpretation of her, my perception. But there's this person. That's when the opening really happens. And the same with the kids. And there was interesting study done once And they, as I mentioned, there's a in the heart which emanates radiation, which you can measure. You can also measure the radiation from the brain by means of electrical studies. And the therapists and the clients, they were talking to each other and at the same time their radiation energies At certain times in the therapy, there was a synchronicity between the waves projected You know, they were on the same wavelength. Yeah. They were Now, they didn't I mean, they couldn't But in retrospect, when they asked them, and most together, when they were on the same wavelength. And What was interesting was the therapist was listening rather So when you really hear that's when the synchronicity happens. It's really interesting the fact We have a lot of trainings public speaking, nonviolent communication but not so much on listening. I want to ask you about something. and I'm curious how your relationship was in the couple's relationship. We have a lot of anxiety We don't speak a lot In Romania, maybe it's in Romania people have their relationship to money and stuff. How was this throughout then when you became a teacher, what is your relationship Yeah. Well, let me think. I never gave it much thought. No? When We didn't grow up in a country about advertisements and products. It was just life. And nobody had cars. Nobody had TV sets. one family in our neighborhood in 1954 or five got a TV set. because they were circus acrobats, And they brought home a TV set. state television broadcast with these status symbols If a car passed outside our house, So I didn't go out, We had the clothing that we needed. of scarcity. What I didn't know is that who was a doctor, Otherwise my mother and my mother stayed home with us. Coming to Canada, it began to shift because Within a year, they had another child, a 12-year-old, and a new in a new country, where to make a living. So for them, there was a lot of insecurity. And... Did you feel it? I saw their insecurity, Once I became a doctor, I remember being anxious about, and make a living? It was totally irrational, but it was based on what I'd seen On that end, once I started making money, Like I didn't worry about saving money was gonna be enough my wife who grew up of economic insecurity has been much more anxious about money than I have been. Beyond what's rational. She grew up in a home And so for me personally I've been on my money in some ways. But it's not a big problem. I mean, you know, at least my books and so on, I never have to worry I know a lot of couples have issues of the main tension points I'd like to go where We're heading and I really appreciate, being able to to handle this. I know you're working With your son. Yeah. Hello again. It's called Hello Again, They're adult kids. And adult children. But let me come back to the question Please. So I'm person when it comes to I can't be a guide to anybody else. But what I can tell you, there are genuine concerns about money, and then there is perceived And many of the issues amongst couples around money have less to do with what they're carrying from What happened in the family's origin. Romania is a country with more emigration Surely, people are doing that that they have to do that. So I'm not minimizing the money problem here. But I am saying to people, your family, don't push Talk about it. And decide what is based and what is based on past anxieties that you're carrying from Don't not talk about it. Money is huge. Money is energy. You know, you got money So it's really important about amongst couples in the present that we have to deal from the past. Yeah, thank you for that. I also empathize with that I didn't feel we lacked stuff. But my father, who became an entrepreneur in the 90s, always was They had fights at times that no matter how much I have of it, And at least I see that it's not coming but it's something I took on. What I wanted to ask you about you to have an imagination If you were a fresh parent in today's world, with social media, that you shared in the book. How would you go around parenting If I was a new parent today, for many, many, many years. I would not let them see a screen. Except maybe in my presence, Maybe your grandparents, your and you live in Bucharest How wonderful for your kids to be able to see and talk with her. I will not put a cell phone in my hands. I would not let them near a screen. I would not let them Children have a need in nature. That's evolution determined Also, these devices they're designed to be addictive. And if you do brain scans of age who spend too much time You can see the brain damage This has been done. I wouldn't let them near it any a car when they're three years old. You know, at some point you let them drive to handle it. But not until then. So this is discussed fully in In fact, we wrote two post COVID and the digital age. So if I was a new parent, I have nothing to do And I certainly wouldn't sit Because I want to give the kids, your kids the impression that this thing is more Well, that's the message they get. So that's what I would do if I was a new parent. Thank you so much. We've book called The Anxious Generation by Jonathan believe it's a... Yeah, and it's wonderful because it also, he also like no phones until 16, actually no phones until 14, the one thing he doesn't say yeah but read the reviews is what makes your relationship with the child. Absolutely. So you have to have If you don't have when the kid is looking to you for advice, your kid won't pay attention. So you always have And then if the attention is working, Thank you very much for I hope you're going to be blessed and to enjoy your life and everything that you experienced to enjoy your family. I hope you're going to be happy I want to invite you with the audience. of people watching from Romania Maybe you have a message in the conferences or because I also know you're preoccupied and not just individuals. Well. What would be your message for... Well, I'd say something that's political that is not. On the political level, in terms Gaza has been breaking I mean, Palestine has been breaking And I can't stand it that after what my family went through, in Eastern Europe, now We've taken so much of that suffering and imposed it on Palestinian people, They didn't come to Europe to bother us. We went there hoping to create a new land. That's understandable, but what we've done to them and what we continue to do to them of children, it just breaks my heart every day. And the whole world is watching. And when I was a teenager, my head would spin about what happened and I thought how could Well this is how. You know terrible stuff is happening now That's one thing I would say, The other thing is more personal. Again, on a Jewish theme, Martin Buber, who's a great Jewish philosopher, who by the way really believed but he studied the great and wrote a book called Tales Hasidim are an Eastern European, including they were here Spiritual, ecstatic, mystical Jewish group. Some strains of Hasidism still exist. But Buber went back and wise people and teachers and rabbis, My favorite one is very short. It's a rabbi, Zushia, who says, when I go to the next life, ask me why I wasn't the great Moses. They're going to ask me, In other words, why weren't you yourself? And I think that's the biggest question are we being truly ourselves? Are we following our own guidance, our own guts? Or do we spend our time other my biggest advice is, my life is the importance and not to beat ourselves up if we're not, about what is it that's stopping me So, that's the message. Thank you for being yourself and your Thank you. It's a Thank you very much! Thank you guys, thank you It's been a pleasure, I am Paul This is a free material in to the personal development If you want to learn more become a member of Mind Architect Premium, 130 audio-video materials, and resource recommendations. In addition, and perhaps most importantly, where you can directly interact with And, access the we keep close to the community And if you want to learn at your own pace, in the Online Academy section, for you, with clearly with excellent visual You can listen to free episodes on podcasting networks such and MindArchitect.ro And if you liked this episode with someone you know, The MindArchitect content is not intended as being usable to diagnose, treat, attenuate, heal, prevent or or medical condition. It does not represent a substitute for therapeutic work.