So George PYne, Alex, he former president of IMG. Now the founder of Bruin Capital. This is a guy that if you you are one degree from him He's got a speed dial like no major deals and is looking for what's happening next in sports. Yeah. I think in many and I, we looked up to Warren I think this is a guy that if you're a young Yeah. - And the reason why I mean, you said it best. He's a wonderful family man. He's built an incredible and he's got world-class relationships with an amazing culture. Here's George Pine. All right, George. Should we start this show always by having people introduce themselves, their names and what they do? George Pine, founder Now I could use the Boston accent. You George. Fine, but I'm gonna use My real accent. Listen, when you use a Boston accent, it gives this guy PTSD. So George, you gotta know That's true. I have So use that. Use that to your advantage. I mean, if you don't like a question, don't like the question. If you don't like a question, yes. Just answer it in Boston accent You know, we are wondering how to start the conversation with you. You know, looking at all the career, what would you say so Signature deal? You I don't really look in terms of that. I, I think the thing what am I most proud of, maybe, yeah. You know, Dale Earnhardt of the Daytona 500 weeks before I was promoted Having to lead the safety through a very difficult period most proud of. And then of course, that had two avenues. One was actually putting in and creating a a R&amp;D center, the first of its kind in the world. And then also too, navigating of that, because overnight NASCAR became so much more popular at that time. So that of all the things I'm is that air error and And luckily they've had a almost perfect safety record since then. What was that moment like? I mean, that, that was a, I mean, that was a seminal moment in the sport. It was tough. I mean, that was tough to, to lose your greatest driver of all time. Now we had lost three other and then when the greatest of it shook the whole And, and of course we were leading the row, and we, the scrutiny on So that rattled you and really rattled you to, to your court. So having to kind of stabilize and kind of like sports getting and play the next day and dig and find your way through it. It was really probably one of But we came out the other and had a real impact over So if you look, ask me it's, it's that effort. Let's talk about that, George, because obviously when and your returning capital to investors and all that, it's all wonderful, but in a very, very difficult What, what were some of the things that you did over those to make everybody feel Well, I think you, you, you and taking tough positions. I mean, we installed the Hans device, which was very unpopular at the time. We put data recorders in the cars, which was also controversial. So pushing through a number and for other reasons the before, but you had to do it right. So what, what was your option? So having to push through, to push through change and sticking with it and believing it and standing up was really So I think a leader has that are uncomfortable, and, And so you don't really to go against the grain, you've gotta take a stand and, and, and do what you believe in. So over the course of this conversation, we're gonna talk a lot and candidly like your and your operating experience and, and how that translates But I feel like I have and Alex knows this 'cause I mentioned when I was through our mutual friend Billy Andre, he started out in the real estate world. You come outta Brown. how you get from there? Me meeting you and Helene, to today? As I tell everyone, there's no way to replicate my journey, right? Right. I moved to Atlanta, I had $5,000. My wife had a car with 90,000 miles in My car had 170,000 miles and only two of the four doors worked. Right. And we literally credit cards to pay the bills. We had. Our friend Billy and said, I feel like I said, yeah, this is all my So it was, it was a journey. But again, I, you know, come and didn't want to fail. Like, I never really cared about winning, but I never wanted to lose. Right. And so I moved away, Atlanta was great. It was Super Bowl, and I worked in a and had built 27 buildings And I was like, Hey, we should And my boss thought I was crazy. But on the side, I built signed up NASCAR in 1995. You know, people forget it was called Winston Cup. 16 races were on the Nashville network. And the company had one You know, when we left, we were on Fox and NBC, we had nine offices. Hold on. I I wanna stop you there. It was not called NASCAR? It's called Winston Co. It's That's a, the tobacco sponsor. And Wow. People referred it to Winston Cup. The NASCAR brand at that And, and NASCAR at the time that sanctioned the races It wasn't supposed to be And so they let myself and Brian France were anointed to go try and develop a, a commercial business. And man, we, we took I knew we had a big opportunity and it, you know, and it worked out. And so it was an amazing run. The industry was great, So, you know, I, I was 40 years old. I had a little itch in me and And so I had a friend at Goldman Sachs and said, Hey, you know, you should go see this guy Ted Forsman. He just bought IMG. And I didn't know who Ted was. And I thought I went by, I saw Ted, I thought it was gonna be 30 And Ted, when he wanted And then the notion to go who was a leader in legend in private equity, He, he said he invented it. but I felt like working for him, I could learn a lot, which I did. And obviously, IMG was in 30 countries. And so running a company that was in wide array of sports, for me was like, all right. That, that sounds good. So I like when you mentioned Ted Forman, because the first time I heard of him was when he bought partner Mark Mastro. And I think they did that Mark just loved working with him. But tell us a little bit about Ted. Our listeners probably don't know much about Tell us what he meant to you and what were some of the attributes and lessons you learned from him? I had really three A guy named John Portman, who's one of the great American feet of real estate. And I worked with him through and then working at Bill France was another And then working for Ted Forsman. So I learned different Ted, what I really learned was and little bit negative, but boy, if he was able with an idea, to minimize the risk, like the guy was all in right away. And so what I really learned from him was, and I tell my kids the risk reward ratio. What's the upside? What's And if it's worth it, you go for it. That's what I took away from Ted. The other thing from these three they all worked, they worked hard. They're smart. I'll tell you so my last day at NASCAR, with Bill France and Jim France, two billionaires, where do we go? We go to Steak and Shake And, and they're wearing like short sleeves and we're driving home. And I said, I go, guys, can And it's great advice. They and know when not to squeeze. Mm. And that was it, right? But that was kind of of knowing when to push So like, watching these guys day in and day out for me was a great, like, great learning experience. I mean, what's the I mean you go from these American business and, and finance. Was there any sort of for the Frances, you know, you know, pretty well codified family I mean, barbarians at the gate. How do you sort of adjust mentally? Like what are you going home and saying to Helene this is a different world. Yeah. So NASCAR was, because it was a family to do is convince the family And you're doing immediately And there was no kind of And so that was great for me. And I was kind of a guy that and did the work and, you and did it again, and did it again. And when you went to, to Ted, Ted was an investor, not an operator. Hmm. sometimes when they don't know a business, there are a lot of different inputs. And when you're running a global company, there's a lot more politics. And, and I was not, when I first went to IMG was 40 years old. I was like, Hey, if and you're driving results, And what I learned in that environment was that may not be the case. So it's, you know, I you need good style, but you And I was more substantive, And I, I needed to work on the and pol being a little more political, which I didn't like, quite honestly. And we don't have it Bruin today, but that was, if you said you know, working for a of inputs, you've gotta be a different set of management skills than and delivering results. And so what was the, like you get to IMG and what's the biggest challenge that, that you took on there? Well, the biggest challenge and grow the company. Which, you know, one which was great training for me, and I knew it when I took you know, my job is to Scale doesn't matter. Profitless volume doesn't Because he's an investor. He is an investor. And so was the thing that, you know, we got trained in and measured. But ironically, you that I learned a long time, although going back to Portman, when I, I made a huge mistake. I used to criticize people When I went and ran my first I got really taken to And I said, I'll never run And so how's a guy that, you to drive a stick shift, run NASCAR, and set rules and so forth? 'cause we, I was a very So we had to write a business plan. And you checked in on the business plan once a month on strategy and numbers. And when what happened, NASCAR Bill Francis was It's working pretty good Why don't we take this discipline and put it over to the core business? And that's what got me in the, on the racing side from just Ah, It's served me really well working for Ted because I have a very It's not, I look at it this way, like, numbers are like your blood pressure, your cholesterol or whatever. They'll tell you what's right but they're not gonna solve it. It's the strategy drives the numbers, the numbers can confirm the strategy. I've always been a big believer in that. Even yesterday I was in a staff meeting. I'm like, Hey guys, you know, collaborative approach with our companies and just someone doesn't and presents me a business plan. Let's start now digging in with people and let's go through the drafting of it. So I found that working with and then having the has really worked well for me for 30 years. I learned that at Portman, actually. Yeah. of the things you were looking from the top is grow EBITDA, right? Maybe one or two examples of and how did you move that Well, you know, one of the IMG Academy, when you take they were really great at you know, Kobe Bryant, really great athletes but for 30 years that had So I put in a guy today and running the nets, Sam he went to Stanford Business Sam came in as my chief of staff and I put him in to run IMG Academy. And Sam's a brilliant guy. And, but he had worked at and running a sports academy or in Sam's case, understanding in the airline industry. So we took IMG from not to profitable in a very turning it into more of a to college versus where we're gonna get And I was really proud of that. IMG Academy just sold for I like 10 or 11 years ago. We bought 40%, we only owned We bought 40% of IMG and a two year payment plan. And I, it was hard because and, you know, cash, we I had to go to the wall that to get $6 million Wow. To buy 40% of the academy for, but, you know, recently just sold for like $1.2 billion. So anyway, so that's one. And then, you know, we had a lot of fun building the college business. See, we had never been in college. And, well, one thing I learned from Ted, which served me well today, and find places to grow And so what we did is we looked, we looked at all these different sports, and I had one of my buddies who I started getting these It was like 190 million fans. Number one with young wealthier audience than golf. Right? But think about it, most Wow. I call my guy and I said, RO, his name's Roger Vandersnick, I said, Roger, I go, where He goes, oh, George, we to college sports. And so we made investments and it turned out to be a real, At IMG? Wow. That was probably in 2010 guys that got, got the ball moving there. What does that look like when you're investing into college sports? Like so many things that so obvious now, but they So how did you invest in college? So the idea was I took, I was aghast, right? And then, and then you start looking at, all right, take Atlanta. You have the Atlanta Falcons Now we lived in Atlanta, so we Truthfully, the Georgia Bulldogs By, it's not close. It's not even close. It's not close. And so, like what revenues does the Falcons generate and what revenue does the Bulldogs? And all of a sudden the And Bulldogs are down there. So I'm not the smartest guy, but I was like, you I'm going with those and try to sell, like sell like the, like the Falcons and that. And so we had, it was a big restructuring. I mean, we, I think we had a, we had 400 salespeople who And so you had to, it was, 'cause you were selling differently. We wanted to sell like the And we had to go out and get guys from the and help us. You know. So, George, I'm sorry. Sorry, I'm, you lost me a little bit. Take me a step back. So you're the Georgia Bulldogs, Does that mean that you're or you're invested into the university? Walk me through that a little Bit. So there were companies, that had the ru marketing Mm. And what we did is we rolled them up. We, and when we left, we were representing 85 universities On sponsorship and local media rights, and then 200 universities in licensing. So you were repping the schools. Yes. And essentially replacing that was probably like local or regional, right. Like Right. We were trying to, we, that Whole, whole Yeah. Which to your but transformation at that time. Oh yeah. That's ahead of the curve. And it was a big driver of It's really interesting to of trifecta experiences. But what were you seeing that you found so compelling Well, when you think about it's the only thing that of people together around who you are and what you stand for. So that connection, which at NASCAR, those fans were loyal in a Yankees fan, very loyal. And so what you really want to do is try and tap into that And you know, in this world now where media consumption's fragmented, there are very few things that And then when you think that can deliver content, you're really tapping So when I look at sports today, sports become more valuable. And where I think sports is of the lifetime value of the consumer. Mm. Right? Because really it's And I'm gonna, you I want Yankees content, I want to know everything about the New Yorker Yankees. And having that one-to-one permission to suggest products and services that are relevant, And by the way, you can It's the same thing in any of those football clubs or leagues. It's, it's that passion of sports and that one-to-one connection And Beco will become more and the way we communicates so much more fragmented today So take us through, you of personal deal you make, for these, like big companies, you've had these in incredible, like iconic business and then you decide like, and not just, I'm gonna do my own thing, but I'm gonna move from being an operator to being an investor. Like, what's that thought process like For you? Well, the thought process was, we had success in growing earnings, and I could now apply this to a, a different area for myself. And I think then we about, you know, the transitions. You know, when you're in and I wanted to have a more results oriented kind of situation. So that was appealing to me. And you know, I was 48 years old and I was like, Hey, if I'm 48 years old and I fail, you know, I'll be and take a job. Right. But I said, you know, what, am I gonna wait till I, I was like, it's age You know, I was 40 years old at NASCAR. I'm like, yeah, do I see or I don't wanna take a You know, I'm 48 years old, you know, now's the time to take a shot. I'm 25, I'm gonna move away So what if I feel I can always So like, I'm 48 years old, It was a big difference. You know, I'm in the $188 of the GM building with And, you know, I'm in White Plains at the Regis Temporary office. I didn't even have a secretary. I mean, I had, I didn't have So it really literally was that journey. And I have to say, even at 40 that I was still that scrappy, I still could get in there and go. And we built this thing And we built it up. And we, we operate in 71 countries. We have people on the You know, we work with every major League or Federation in the world. And that literally started in White Plains, New York. So, George, let's go You said you wanna take your shot now. You talked about a three-year plan. Walk us through your three-year plan. How much are you raising? What And, and this for in and listeners who don't Walk us through that a little bit. Yeah, so what the idea that were very similar to You know, NASCAR, we came in, there were four people in the commercial division when we left. There were hundreds, I don't know how many, but a lot of people. Right? Wow. And so we We built a PR capability under scrutiny. You know, we built a a licensing capability. A marketing capability, right? And then, and then at IMG, We're in wide ranges of sports. We had to do, I had to do which I hadn't done. A lot of NASCAR was more organic growth. And IMG was rerestructuring. And then in investing, right? Working for a demanding guy So the idea was, I did good You know, I had a friend why don't you do it for I said, well, how do you do that? And he goes, I'll help you do Can you tell us who that friend was? Kaveh Khosrowshahi at Allen and Company Kaveh was like, the day that Endeavor was He said, are you ready to go yet? And of course I wasn't ready at the time, but he, you know, I had, And so I had to think about What, what, what's the next step for me? And so I had been thinking prior to the sale. Mm. And Kaveh was like, Hey And I was, you know, you at least I, and I work, So it's always hard to leave. Like, when I left NASCAR, I cried. Right? I mean, it's like, when you give everything you have. But it was just an itch I needed to scratch, whatever that thing is. Right. So George, I want to go I'm 49, so I'm obsessed to There's nothing harder than You're an entrepreneur, but you haven't really raised a lot of capital at that point. A how scary is it? How big of a fund were you trying to raise and how difficult was it for you? Or how easy was it for Well, it, by the way, It's a lot harder than I I was lucky that my friend to his clients and said, And if it wasn't for I wouldn't be sitting here right now. And if I knew how hard I think stupidity in this And, and, and if I knew how hard it was, I probably But, but having surrounding and people that believed in me, you know, Kaveh really delivered. And I have to think, you Martin Sorrell was the CEO of and said, Hey, I'm in for a no matter what amount of money you, wow, you, you raise it, of course Holy smoke. And of course, of course for me that was helpful in the raise. So between, you know, Martin Sorrell and Kaveh, those two guys are and you can hear it in my voice. I'm very appreciative of those two people, you know, to this very day. How much was it and It didn't take very long. It was like six or nine months Nice. Amazing. - Well, you know, you know, really probably as, What was it like transitioning athlete to being a And how were you able to, why do you think you were able to do that? 'cause you've done amazing. Thank you, George. You I've had some incredible mentors. You know, starting with So watching George what I call VCP, that he had the vision, he had the capital, and And those people have been So continuity was really important. I said there was a great and duration of those people. When I thought about my if I can surround myself with or 50 year outlook in my business about the next five more transactional. I felt that was something And then kind of staying in my and real estate is what I know best. And I'm pretty dangerous in those spots. And I'm pretty, like, much else after that. And I just try to stay bring in the best people and just, you know, run companies and do the best I could. Well I think it's amazing obviously, but I, I Yeah, - What you've done because there are a lot of and athletes out there, but there aren't people that and be able to transition and do what you've done in business. So, congrats man. It's, thank you very. 'cause I've been around Yeah. You've seen, you've seen it And so one of the things and we sort of alluded is you're getting into the seems so obvious now. And, and listen, we look that have been created. We see your friend Roger like embracing private equity, which we never thought might happen, but you clearly saw something in the broader ecosystem Well, you know, what I saw with Ted and IMG Ted was really an early adapter. Maybe there's one or two he was a private equity Yeah. Mm. Which at the time was unheard of and somewhat controversial. And what I saw was that if you could deploy sports, you could get great results. And so the idea was, okay, we've done that a few times at IMG we deployed capital and got great results. You know, now we can do, you can do this on your own. And, and You're thinking of like IMG Academy, like specific initiatives IMG College or other businesses that we bought along the way and saying, Hey, we had a You know, there's more opportunity here. And of course, you know, when you kind of look back on me now, what was unique was IMG And so we have a global, at Bruin, we have a global network, you know, we've got 14 Bruin advisors, with me at IMG, some people who competed with me at IMG are now Bruin advisors. So we have a global network and sports there, there are literally in sports all So when you look at it or international, it's a, there's a, it's a big world out there. And what's interesting or at least not yet, you have, again, and I'm overusing this, but like in the, in the ecosystem in some of the adjacencies. So what's the underlying theory there? Well, I think when you private equity traditionally And you can take these And so when we come in there, through this now, we've, we've now at brewing a, a fair amount. So we go into these middle one stage and can add a lot And obviously with our and we can take these companies you know, quite honestly, they An example would be Delta Tray. When we acquired Deltatre, When we sold Deltatre, And what does that company do? They do webs apps and streaming. And so, you know, when you we're able to open up new I said we do business in 71 countries, but we're big in Europe, we're and we have a big presence in Australia and we're able to cross sell. Right? So that's a real And then, you know, we that really work in operations, and I'm an Operator, right? So I'm like, and I, I'm still pretty hands on. You know, I was, I was We had a problem. And I'm a little, I'm a little more polished but we, we had a pretty And I, you know, the old more aggressive. I was like, look, you business doing great things. And then I said, look, and here's a list of all my mistakes. So let's be honest with one another and let's work to figure it out. Our guys like that. So if you talk to our CEOs, we do, 'cause they're our best salesmen. We buy a company like they're happy. And it's quite different than because typically because the people that lead they're not subject matter experts. Hmm. there are no boards, Like we actually know I have we advisors and experts, but we have people that Right? Not somebody like I know So they're gonna whisper in my ear and I'm gonna, they're Like we know what we're doing and we're not, we know we're not doing these, we're doing sports in So, George, talking about Bruin, if Jason was selling Walk us through what is the perfect, what I call the two o fastball right down the middle for Bruin. Meaning here's a space Here's the earnings, here's the EBITDA. And walk us through what and how you think about growing and helping Jason as a founder. Yeah, so, so it would be of EBITDA, right? That, you know, we've invested Not always why technology, 'cause the growth fundamentals So occasionally we'll see things on location, proof in the pudding. We'll see a few things through our expertise, but most of it's technology. So it would be probably a tech or data related company that had on its own great And really you really like the, the CEO and what the lens I can this company grow or not on its own? And if I don't believe in the Then the other lens we look at is through our network, can we add value? And it's important because if then we can make it even better. And if by chance which happens we're wrong, we can prop it up. Okay. So in, in this case, Jason's company's throwing off of it free cash flow he wants How do you land on like, is it Obviously it depends on Walk us a little bit through Well I like this company, this is great. You're just Yeah, exactly. Well usually a margin of what, what the multiple is. Now, I will say for us, like who, if it's all about, I ironically, and thankfully you know, more than half our where people have just sought us out. There's not really a 'cause 'cause if you think diligence on us and you're a founder, like we're quite compelling if who Because like, I've worked my whole life, I've built this company up and now, you know, I wanna take and I'm probably gonna take more risks. 'cause we'll deploy We'll open up markets and, and of course we're gonna So then if you're a founder, like, well who do I wanna do that with? The guy who said, listed all wrong before he got into what went wrong. Or somebody who's highly educated wagging their finger at you. That's never run a business. And that's really where, so so much about the do we culturally agree? Do, and and I always tell the guys, 'cause I'm a bit of a and I don't wanna sell, Like once we acquire your So I don't wanna convince you to do something you're not gonna do. So I'm always like, Hey, these are the expectations. Are you comfortable with it? And if you're comfortable And, you know, that's So we don't the price there's a range of the price. We're gonna pay a fair value, But if you're about the last that I wanna spend the next x amount of years with. Jason. I'm not about the last nickel, I'm Not about at the last nickel. I'm hogging up the mic, I'm But it sounds a lot like the Charlie Munger model. Yeah, yeah. One of the and dear to us is the media world. You know, we're sitting you invested in Box to Box, which we, I mean, everyone or watching this show has Box to Box made, especially which I feel like revolutionized sports and sports media. Talk to us about that what you saw at, at this Well, a couple things. I see two great CEOs, James and Paul are very talented people. I have a good friend of to run Fox Sports. And I called Dave and he raved about, about them meant, it meant a lot to me. And then the, their They do drive for survival in full swing. They do kind of the behind you know, around the world. They're a market leader because they're, they're global, Right? We're helping, you know, add some relationships and But I felt like I always wanted to get in media if I could And where we see growth podcasts short form media, they haven't invested capital, they've never taken risks on the deal, they've never done acquisitions. I think there's opportunities So we saw four or five things but again, we were, it and guys we felt like we in terms of opening a few They don't need too many because Right. They're very global themselves, but they're great at what they do. And I love being with them because you get on a phone and they wanna be great. Yeah. I'll give you a little example. So one of the things, you very under leveraged. It's good in one way, but we, we have to be a And so we put, brought all our and I brought in an expert on debt because I'll never, I don't, I learned a long time ago making adults do things they don't want to do. It's probably not gonna So I brought in this expert and had them talk to the, the companies and like these guys were like, embraced it and we just got our first But it was because they were interested. And as I say to the guys, look, We'll, we'll be below lower but let's be the best we can be. Right? And like, and they And it was kind of a new area. So like, that's somebody that wants to be great at everything they do. They wanna embrace new things and they're really smart and creative. So really happy with those guys. And so what is it, so when you're getting to know a CEO or a founder, like 'cause I know you to be very humble, you know, great family man. Like what, what, what's your vibe? Like how, how are you Well, you go to, often and try to socialize. And what, what I'm really is the person driven? What's the team like? And do I believe in the growth fundamentals of that business? And if I believe the growth and I really believe in the CEO, then it's, you know, feels good. And can I add value? Can we, yeah. Can we add value if we then all we are is placing And I'm not a, I'm not a like I can add value to something great or if it goes wrong, can I add value? So I, I wanna go back to Because one of the really I'm totally like taking advantage of like knowing a lot about you you know, have been involved with college sports from but also as a dad, your son quarterback on, on the college level. I do wonder like being able how, what's your perspective on sort of college sports at this moment? Because it feels like such a revolutionary and candidly like sort of fraught moment for, for college sports. Well, I think it is, it's It's going through change and it's so successful that that, you know, you have to I mean, you know, when you playoff game, one game, before all the other things, if you have 80,000 people ticket and all the concessions. Yeah. So one game is worth 84 million, $80 million. Like do you think for a two or three hour game, three hour game, if that game's generating over for three hours, don't field should participate? I estimate it to be six to $8 billion a year Shouldn't the play people that And so what's happened is the to the college model, but the courts have now Yeah. And so you're And, and, and by the and it's hard in college There's, you know, everyone's If you, you know, USC and UCLA were part of a conference until they weren't, right? So you have a bunch of competitors that ha ha work for their self-interest. And so with no one in charge, in a highly successful industry, you're gonna have a But I think at the end of the day, it'll all work itself out. You know, we had, we went through all this with the Olympics, right? Oh, we shouldn't pay the athletes. We shouldn't pay the athletes. Boy, I thought the Paris Olympics were amazing, unbelievable, incredible. So like, and those, No, nobody cares. Yep. this thing will, you know, And you know, I, I have a little 'cause I, you know, I'm semi and my family's been playing college football for over a hundred years. You know, those playoff and Alabama, you know, it Yeah, - Right. Like the Yeah. So all this talk about, The Florida State game in the whatever bowl it was. But so what, there are always blowouts, but those playoffs? Yeah. Amazing. So like the what the player movement it'll get figured out I mean, one of the and I both admire about you and, and have watched over the years of which you've been, you you know everyone. I mean, you really have like there's no one that I talk to in sports who's more and often one degree away from you. Is that purposeful? Like what's the, what's Well, I think a couple things. There's a little bit of NASCAR was a good job, right? And then at IMG, a lot of But I think truthfully, you know, if you're around long enough and you're a good person and you do what you say you're gonna do, you know, it pays out for you. Now everyone's got their You know, if I tell you, Bill France when he hired me. 'cause I got three things for you. He said, tell the truth, work hard, don't embarrass the company. Still quoting it today, right? Yeah. and asked her, we were gonna And so like that had an influence on me. And even Ted was honorable. And so to me it's like, hey, you know, tell someone you're gonna do something. You do it. You, you try I try to emulate Roger Penske. I told Roger I was with him this summer. I'm like, you know, some of And I, so I think that is the trust and respect over decades. Right? And that's what That's my shtick. Doesn't shtick, but that's my shtick. Yeah. And so, you that's fascinating about that like you're so tied in of all the major sports You're one of the only people I know who, who I feel like can call every and like get on the phone. What do you hear from those of the state of the sports leagues? Because obviously that has of your own investment thesis Like take us inside some of those Conversations. Yeah, I just feel you have to Because when you look and a half times on their Adam did an amazing job there. When you look at the NFL with all the contracted they have really strong NHL's baseball's doing well. You know, everyone seems to be, I mean, NASCAR did a great TV deal. Yeah. So like all this stuff and the fragmentation nevertheless have held up really strong. So I don't know. I think, I think the big issue in you do see institutional capital's gonna change the game. And so my advice to someone is, hey, if I'm running a sports team or I'm running a league I need a capital plan to differentiate myself from Number two, I need a So whether I want to act on it, Like, hey, if I'm, if with capital's gonna disrupt my sport, what am I gonna do about it? So I don't think you can just to and say, well that's not for us. You have to have a capital plan. I mean, I'm, I'm not gonna make any but look, somebody with capital showed up and the game changed. The other guy, dude, he had to go out and raise capital, right? And so, and a Lot of it and so like if you're in you better have a capital plan Yeah, that's an interesting, about it in exactly that way. But you know, you think about the NFL, if private equity's gonna even a half a dozen franchises, that doesn't just change those franchises, it changes the other 26 is you know, having to, to figure out what their plans are gonna be Well, it's gonna change, right? So you're, you know, I think of limiting it right? And making sure that you know, that, that the investors have really no say, Right? Right. And so they're not, their life's not really but they're benefiting from an influx of institutional capital That money's gonna go to provide liquidity for limited partners that might have had a hard might solve some family that are family owned and perhaps for real estate investment. Right. And reinvention And lastly, it's gonna increase the value of the franchisees. 'cause you have more bidders. So again, the institutional capital, is changing the game. Yes. Right. And so, and probably over time we'll better than I, that in other sports, the number is higher than 10%. Yeah. And in order for these and growing in value, you're gonna have to look at different outlets for capital. I mean, to, to buy an NFL team. Now you need two, $3 billion and think about what rights you get. You know, if you're one of that put four or 500 Right? So that's getting That's a pretty, that's Ticket, isn't it? Yeah. I mean, it's a nice but you're the victim of your own success. Yeah. So you're going to have markets and, and have a But again, it's all against Right. Everybody would love to All right, so let's do So this is the, the only keep it tight, we'll, we'll What's one word to describe Decisive. What's more important to your instant gut or data? Instant gut. Who's your dream deal making partner? Someone who's well What's the best piece of deal making or business? Know when to squeeze and know what not to squeeze. What's the worst piece of I don't know. I didn't pay attention. Do you have a hype song before you go into a big No, but a good workout. There you go. If you can only of your life, what sport would it be? Football. Football. American football. Sorry. Team? Patriots. My dad played for What team do you wanna see? Win a championship more than any? Missouri Tigers. There you go. There you Yeah, that's right. that if your colleagues heard about it, they would be shocked or surprised. I played the viola. Okay. Wow. Listen, this was really, really fun. I feel like it's decades so much for, for doing this. It's great to see you and Thank you so much for the Thanks George.