Uganda, Tuesday, March 26th, 1974. This morning, Tuesday, March 26th, 1974, Amin Dada once again Killers were trying to assassinate and these killers were his own soldiers. Like Gaddafi and Stalin, For these paranoid men, the night brings out their worst fears, especially for Amin Dada, who lives in an irrational world come to haunt him and seek revenge. In addition, some fears are all too real. Three years ago, as an army general, he succeeded in overthrowing Now he, himself, To maintain power and protect himself, he has unleashed a reign of terror Any dream of his, deemed premonitory, can result in hundreds of arrests He was scared As a result of how he was ruling, people were scared of him, Everyone is subjected to repression, who start to disappear Everybody in Uganda, members of the armed forces, police and the public, are all responsible for my security. Immediately they hear anybody or trying to plan anything against me, report that person The methods employed Victims are clubbed to death, their bodies thrown or shot publicly wearing white aprons choked with their own penises and some even dynamited in groups. In three years, he has already had more Unlike Stalin and Gaddafi, Amin personally participates His home is situated only a few meters from the principal detention To enter without being seen, He tortures the victims himself and then finishes them off Amin is suspicious of everyone His daughter recalls how he spent nights He wasn't sleeping much. He could sleep, but during the night, switching off the light, and how they were patrolling. You know, a place like State House, where there are bushes, he must fear. He must have feared his own soldiers because he believed You see, and it was correct. They told him that the people were the people he was working with. That's why when you are president, Like Stalin and Gaddafi, All of the dictators were caught up They were suspicious especially those closest to them who were best positioned Due to this tremendous pressure, they would progressively He doesn't know it yet, but today Idi Amin His own cousin, General Arube, and whom he had appointed is planning to overthrow him. As he would later tell his son, he was about to live through The issue of the putsch attempt the Kakwa, we are Kakwas, was the most painful thing Charles Arube was more or less a brother. As a cousin, In addition to all the atrocities Amin will now have to go one step further. Go against a member of his own family. Amin Dada also plundered his country. He collects luxury cars He's hardly ever in his office at his villas He had so many wives. You see, most homes he had It is estimated that Amin Dada but even Babi Salama Shida, the daughter can't remember exactly how many We were staying with my six siblings, oh, I think 22. After three years Amin can finally have everything My father came from the lowest rank He was simply saying that somebody who used to slash sugar cane so it is possible. He lived in the colonial era, and out of the blue, he came to power. Still, he had served Amin belonged to the Kakwa tribe, a tribe living His father abandoned the family His mother practiced witchcraft. She raised her son on her own in an irrational world To survive, she moved in with a soldier but the other soldiers and finally drove her and her son away. The two lived in utter misery but to sign up with the very regiment At 18, he was only a kitchen boy, A few years later, in the colonial army who had noticed Amin's strength In charge of putting down he reverted to terror tactics and torture. There was a method he used of cutting off the genitals and humiliating them. After Independence Amin continues his ascent under President Milton Obote. His ambition does not end there. After several assassination attempts, he finally succeeds in overthrowing Obote Idi Amin wasn't well-educated, but he had a lot of natural intelligence. He managed to maneuver his way of those around him. Now it is Amin who has the power. You've said you wanted to teach Why is that? Does this mean the end That's now the lesson With a certain irony, he finds provocative ways He obliges British businessmen He has his throne carried He even goes as far as bestowing In order to make it I have been honored by the highest order of the conqueror Without a qualm, Amin invents He proclaims himself President for Life, and his megalomania Lord of All the Beasts of the Earth At 1.95 meters and 125 kilos, Amin Dada is a veritable force of nature, His outstanding physique and his sense Right from the start, are focused on this eccentric who thinks nothing of being interviewed I do both politics and sports, and even tactics that I use in sports I apply them in politics. In his youth, Amin was a boxing champion Amin is the strongest man in the country. He is Big Daddy, reassuring If his eccentricities amused they also served It is 12:30 PM. Amin has just learned something His three wives have been partying Neglected by their husband, but could not have imagined Amin will not tolerate this insult He rushes to the radio station of his wives to the whole country. He shouts, &quot;My wives are unfaithful!&quot; &quot;They have betrayed me, &quot;I repudiate them &quot;They must leave the house!&quot; On hearing these declarations, the three wives and flee from the house When they come home from school, the children don't understand I remember we were preparing When we came from school, we discovered that my mother Then we asked the maids and they told us We were shocked. We couldn't even ask our father because even by the way we feared to ask. Yes, we were at school. A few months later, Malyamu, Babi's mother She managed to escape Her daughter would not see her again Nora was spared for political reasons. She belongs to a tribe He spares her Kay would not be as lucky. A year later, she was found The children found out We were playing out, Then our sisters came running as Mama Kay was also dead. So my sister Kide, She was cut into pieces. It was very hard for us. It was something strange. It's the Minister of Health himself to have the victim's body He directed that the body parts be sewn which we did that day at the hospital. The children had to go It was a very traumatic Amin takes advantage of the event He has Kay's stitched-up body for the whole crowd to see. He even forces In front of everyone, he shouts, &quot;Your mother, you see, was a loose woman!&quot; &quot;Look at what happened!&quot; &quot;This is how those who blaspheme Babi Salama Shida when she saw her stepbrothers and sisters They were just crying and unhappy. They were no longer playing with us. Sometimes they said and that we still have our mother After divorcing his three wives Amin must now confront He wants to see him in person, which he has been warned about. Arube represents everything he detests. He is an elegant and cultivated man, He poses a real threat to Amin of a large part of the regular army. The situation is even more delicate Amin begins by accusing him outright. He says that he knows about Arube's plot However, Arube remains unperturbed Instead, he criticizes Amin's reign Amin explodes with anger. No one has ever dared He is the chief now, and if Arube he can have Arube executed on the spot, but Arube remains impassive. Amin realizes and that he has perhaps He has no choice, So his attitude changes, He tells him that he is his brother, then requests him to leave in peace The two men pretend to be reconciled, but they know and that in the outcome, As soon as Arube is out of the room, and orders him to assemble his men If Amin himself gave the order they could show up anywhere They wouldn't care. Amin waits for his mercenaries to confirm The stakes are enormous. It's the most dangerous putsch attempt but he is confident. He has a private army of 18,000 men that These are actual death squads The time of Amin was a time of terror. We were in fear at that time, Mohammed Kisambira like many of the tyrant's collaborators. The killing method was by hitting So the civilian population was terrified People were instilled with fear. This time Amin's mercenaries have failed. He has just learned that they have been Charles Arube instigated a coup d'etat. They took up positions and important government houses. They thought they had captured power. Charles Arube seems Amin assembles his troops I remember that day our father came in, putting on his revolvers, Then he was in the office So many soldiers came They were going into the meeting but we couldn't know what was wrong. Amin gives his mercenaries where Arube and his men regrouped, It's midnight Everything has worked out Arube thought his coup d'etat but he made the mistake of ceasing combat with his men in one of the barracks. Meanwhile, Amin Dada's mercenaries without Arube's troops realizing it. One by one, all the soldiers posted Once in position, Amin's men inform him Amin tells them to wait and manages to reach Arube He called Charles Arube, and when Charles Arube grabbed the phone, he felt that the gentleman was intoxicated and seemed to be celebrating. They were talking on the phone, while talking. That is according to Dad's explanation. He said, &quot;My mother gave you to me &quot;After all of this, &quot;You come and betray me,&quot; and he's crying. I'm talking about my dad's tears. He was remembering a very painful thing. Charles Arube answered, &quot;It is good for a Christian He told Charles Arube Charles had posted his people outside, but when he looked outside He saw different vehicles. He told him that he was surrounded. When the phone went off, he called the radio of the people outside, and they told him He had killed himself. That is a painful truth, We had to go through a cultural cleansing because brothers had fought, Whether he committed suicide or, Charles Arube is dead. Today, Amin has escaped he has ever had to face. Still, before definitely finishing His body had been taken Amin must now honor If you taste the blood then you'll be protected of those you've killed If you taste their blood, you can cushion your punishment. Amin himself believed in these things. Nobody was present at the scene, but it is very probable that Amin, stuck a knife in Arube's side and thereby capture his spirit In 1979, Idi Amin Dada fled to Saudi Arabia In his last interview, he said that He died in 2003 at the age of 75 His reign lasted eight years, Today, Uganda's government but the prisons and torture chambers where hundreds of thousands are still there, abandoned in the forest. On March 1st, 1953, Stalin shut away in his office, His entourage didn't dare disturb him. When, at last, he found Stalin unconscious, the victim of a major stroke. His agony lasted five days. He was 75 years old. Stalin died the same way that he governed, alone in his office. The man who was responsible died at the summit of his power, mourned by millions of Soviets He had created a system