Hello, very welcome! Thank you for visiting the channel In today's video, I'm going to show you how to make pan-fried oatmeal and chia bread, a super healthy bread Why is this bread so healthy? Because this bread is made from oats. Oatmeal is a food that brings us multiple health benefits... One of those benefits is that it helps us control the level of glucose in the blood. Another of those multiple benefits is that it increases the level of satiety... That is, it makes us eat less! Another ingredient in this healthy bread is chia... Chia is the food of plant origin that has the highest source of Omega 3. If you like this healthy bread, without oil, without yeast and 100% vegetable Don't forget to leave a like ! I shared the recipe with people who are wanting to change their diet, who are wanting to eat healthier and 100% vegetable And to start this recipe, we are going to use: -1 tablespoon of chia seeds. We are going to add: - 1/2 cup of water, at room temperature, and we are going to let it soak for more or less 20 minutes. Meanwhile, in a container, we are going to place: - 2 cups of ground oats or oat flour. We are going to add: -1 teaspoon of salt And we are going to mix these ingredients well. Once the chia seeds are ready, we are going to add them to the preparation... And we are also going to add 1/2 cup of natural water... we are going to add it little by little, and with a spoon, we are going to Let's put together the dough... This is going to be a wet bread dough because it is not kneaded. This oat bread also does not contain yeast, it does not contain baking powder. We are going to do these enveloping movements, to give the dough a little air And we are going to let it rest... more or less 10 minutes. Meanwhile, I want to show you the landscape that I see from my kitchen And returning to the kitchen, our dough, for the oatmeal bread... It's ready! You'll see that it's going to be a little thicker. .. We are going to take a part with a spoon, and we are going to assemble them. I suggest you put a little oil on your hands, because it will be easier to put them together... since this dough is a wet dough, a slightly sticky dough. In total, with this amount of ingredients, I got 8 loaves... 8 oatmeal rolls, homemade to make in the pan, without an oven... You can make them in the size you like the most! To cook them, we are going to place a little oil in a frying pan. preferably with non-stick. We are going to turn the kitchen heat to minimum, and we are going to place the bread. We are going to cook them covering the pan... I am going to use a pot lid, because this pan does not have a lid. And, more or less, I'm going to cook them for 5 minutes... I'm going to turn them... It's between 5 and 7 minutes, approximately... That will depend on your kitchen, on the heat ... Look how cute they look! I just turned them, I'm going to cover them, and I'm going to cook them, between 5 and 7 more minutes. They are ready, the rolls to take out... They are super tasty! Ideal to eat warm in the morning, with whatever you like or just great. -Can they be frozen? They can be frozen ... Yes? They pre-cook them and freeze them It's very easy to make these oatmeal breads! I want to show you how they turned out inside, I want you to see the crumb... They are still warm... They look great! They have a very tasty smell They are super healthy, 100% vegetables lactose-free, egg-free, oil-free, yeast-free. Easy to prepare! They cook very quickly! And I'm going to make the sandwich for my son, Benicio with some eggplants, which I made in the pan... lettuce and tomato... It's that easy! A 100 vegetable sandwich! Look how cute this bread is! I hope you liked the recipe And when you prepare these oatmeal breads at home... I want you to tell me in the comments how they turned out If you have any questions or want to make a suggestion, you can leave it below in the comments. I invite you to join me on social networks, Instagram and Facebook GRI RECIPES And see you in the next recipe! Help change your friends' diet! I shared the video with them!