(singing) savvy entrepreneurs who understand the velocity of power to establish predatory high-tech monopolies, strip the state of its power, gut regulation, the hundreds of billions of dollars. Their apps, lives. They are technological predators seen in The living wages of working people decline. The incomes and benefits. AI replaces human beings. sick feed the profits for big pharma. The bodies De-industrialized cities feed the profits of the until they are locked in a cage in the world's $60,000 a year fed, of course, to the privatized the commissary, and the medical services that sold to private companies gouge us with sewage bills. At the same time, we are the most population in human history. This technology new serfdom, if not a new slavery, all the while Joining me to discuss our dystopian present and Napoleoni, author of Technocapitalism: The for the Common Good. So let's begin. You open very weak on that, so I told you you'll have cite it as extremely important in the emerging I'll let you just start and explain what Well, basically, Bitcoin can be described as let's distinguish between Bitcoin and all the one. It was given to the world by an anonymous Satoshi Nakamoto, and it was put into the cyber right after the Lehman Brothers crash. So the perhaps whoever Nakamoto is, is somebody from the What is really Bitcoin? Bitcoin is a currency performs all the task that a true currency the US dollars. We're not talking about the pound of inflation, but we're talking about the all produced and it was in circulation according course were very few for a very short time. not controlled by any central bank, it's not has been programmed in a way in which these which is called mining, and this activity is of mathematical formulas becomes increasingly whoever created this currency wants to guarantee a that will be produced, which is 21 million. half almost, and the timing has to be every and all of this structure is guaranteed by the So this is quite complex, complex system At the very, very beginning, kids used to solve that kind of stuff, and then used the Bitcoin story of somebody that bought a pizza using your financial crisis, it became increasingly clear the which clearly after 2008 had lost their meaning. to the banks was produced by clicking a few keys money doesn't exist. So this is the issue that that will give you that stability and trust So the controlling system is all based upon the download your software from a computer, You start investing. You become a member of the with all the others that will evaluate the So everything that happened is right there, even the mathematical solution of the once somebody manages to solve the formula and people who are connected, so they're part of the So this is called proof of work. So it is quite millions of people. This is why Ethereum, which decided not to use the approval work, but to use evaluate if that solution was right or if it's the currency of the people should be in So that's more or less is... Oh, yeah. Then there the way, because in April, well, between there will be the halving. So every about four the number of blocks, the number of Bitcoins at the very beginning, it was 50 bitcoins. Today halving will be at 3.75. So that is a mechanism is not inflated, and also to guarantee not use it for speculation. Well, at the moment, Bitcoin is widely used. We basically every single big bank is using Bitcoin open. So this kind of recognition was very, very to do that, but in the end they had to accept that finance, if they can make money for something, money to be made, of course, in Bitcoin. But is a threat to the currencies in circulation Bitcoin is a transnational currency, so it's a a threat to the monopoly, to the monetary monopoly stop it, but they couldn't stop it. They couldn't other currencies before because the software... I They don't know who Satoshi Nakamoto is, so they Bitcoin holders is the people so you can't stop money is based on an act of faith. You trust in the US dollar it says in God we trust, Let's talk about all the cryptocurrency from Bulgaria, you write about her in have been fleeced in this digital currency world. Bitcoin, so Bitcoin was the first one, and then OneCoin, the one I talk about, Bulgaria clearly even Bitcoin was used for illegal activity, in the Darknet. Now, why was that? Because, no control and nobody knew really how traceable what I have not explained to you is that every a blockchain. So the moment in which the proof a chain. Inside that blockchain, we have all the formula, at what time and so on and so forth. single time the Bitcoin contains in block you can sell halve of it, for example, and keep which is attached to that block. So let's call delete it. You can alter. That's the blockchain single moment you can go into the software and from day one, was in January 2009. So once this the worst currency to use for illegal activity Now, if you want to do money laundering, for the Bitcoin from one of the blocks. Let's say you paid in bitcoins, so nobody has seen that from moment in which you want to change that Bitcoin money launder those money. What are you going there. That in that moment, then that is going this is how the monetary authorities but also the several of these activities used through Bitcoin actually Bitcoin is one of the least used currency activity is actually done in cash because cash Well, let's talk about the fraud, I empires have a pretty rapidly deflated. example, but then again, it is not the to distinguish between Bitcoin and the other of Bitcoin but not a believer in the other cryptos of system that I explained to you. The others the FTX story is very significant because how did I mean, was one of those intelligent and then all of a sudden he discover that there another place. In other words, if you bought than if you bought Bitcoins in New York. so we're talking about seven or eight years ago. differences,&quot; and he made quite a lot of money. to create an exchange. Basically, the exchange out of the discrepancies in prices due to the produce its own cryptocurrency, which of course It was that it didn't have a software system. Just currency.&quot; People started flocking and Now, the guy was very popular among celebrities. titans is that they live in a ghetto, which is even more money using the expertise and knowledge millions from various people in order to invest in dollars or other currencies, and in basically the participation exchange of the day, dollars for this cryptocurrency. did they do that? Well, because they thought the crypto exchange was so incredibly appealing that is producing at an exchange of,&quot; let's say, making so much money, then it's cryptocurrency to be more two to the dollar and I'll be doubling but it is also a scam that was supported who were the victims of the scam, because it's the &quot;Oh, if you give me this money, I'm going to Does all of this threaten the hegemony of the dollar is that it is the world's reserve currency be catastrophic to the American financial system. only to the financial system, but it's going state. So imagine a world, where you do not have or something similar to the Bitcoin. So software it. So how is the state going to be able to print financial sector from yet another crisis? That in control of the Bitcoin. Okay. But also how war in the Ukraine? Because of course, the supply. Money is key. Money supply is the pillar, This is what the cyberpunk... At I started the book with the story of the cyberpunk the 1980s and these people wanted to guarantee so to prevent the state from controlling the net produce a cryptographic system to guarantee without being spied by the state, but they which people would not have to use banks to do If you want to buy something, you got to buy and you have to pay through a currency which came Satoshi Nakamoto, but he came 20 years That's explained also why the state is now which is not a crypto, but it is considered but I am a firm believer that this potentially... could change the structure of the nation state. mentioned Julian Assange, and I just want you to Well, so the crypto-anarchists are... So scientists all from the US. The only one that it was a very strange group of people because so they were all very much pioneers in the very different. So there was a very strong the classic American libertarians where the I can look after myself, that kind of stuff. I wouldn't say necessarily right wing, but almost very smart, but also I think some of these people were on the spectrum of Asperger. Anyway, sort of supremacy of the smart guys over the as a sort of inferior kind of groups that had did not have the same kind of understanding did. Now, Assange was very much against that. where people would exchange. We're talking about so very before we had the internet as we have mail system where they could talk to each other mailing list, it was all cryptographic, so only exchange and discussion between this group of and Assange who instead said, &quot;This empower the people. The people should know. The And then Assange went on, of course, to What did the rest do? Because they became, You have examples in there. Uber is a good to essentially carry out vast campaigns of Well, I mean. We have several examples. Now, in part of the cyberpunk mailing list necessarily, they became immensely rich because, of course, So they stopped working, taking away several they wanted. But I would say that the robber right after people like Assange. In fact, there not very much, but these are the one who came So, forget about politics. See, now, we have the instrument of empowering people and also bring later, we have kids who have grown up playing the internet extremely well, and they spot certain knowing how to code, because that's the other enrich them immensely. And then they started. sold their businesses, and then they What is the serial entrepreneur? Well, this is opportunity. They learned from that opportunity. and then they decided to reproduce that model higher scale. Now, all of this was motivated by anything that can enrich society. This is why I'm due to the fact that these people grew up with I mean? That there is this filter of the internet, what does it mean to be exploited, or but possibly also because of their ego, because being Jeff Bezos for example, or being Elon Musk achieve, so everything was allowed to you because cyberpunk because you are smarter than the others. of technology. There's a wonderful short story and everybody thinks because he's the world else. The conceit of the story is that he's sort a pretty good job of exposing, especially figures industry are kind of idiots. What they do know how So, just let's give some examples. First, I want to give the example of Uber because it's kind of a a bait at the beginning and then a form of really place in terms of timing and exclusion and all and then just talk about the case of Uber. is what we have in Bitcoins. So potentially way we interact at commercial level. It also could we're all talking about, yes, AI is going to make true, but the blockchain comes before AI. So let's have these contracts, which are smart contracts, circumstances are verifying, for example, of wealth is going to be such, and this is signed so can verify they was done a certain date. Then you're not going to court, you're not doing in place. Now, this is a very simple example. cars. So here you are, eventually, you can have will go by itself, will drive itself for a change the mechanic. They will do the change of oil or and pay automatically, because in the smart you will have all of this information. When that verifies, then all of this is going to and the same thing is for voting. negative. It all depends. This is the issue. The immensely positive for us provided it's put in of course, it is controlled by a limited because at the end of the day, the the story is quite interesting because the guy, and he sold his first startup for quite a lot of was working for the company that actually boat his So he was going clubbing every night in San So this is the kind of people were talking about, Casino Royale, he sees that James Bond is calling and pick him up at the casino. So at that point, use the smartphone and the maps that Google had a night after going clubbing. Now, the problem a shortage of cabs in San Francisco. So yes, the one that you can rent, what we call in the UK interact in the map and call them and see who is got the idea. And then eventually, he did develop Now, of course, he knew the technology because knowledge of technology. The Minicab company in not know the technology, so they couldn't do it. everybody has the app, but we're talking about then he had this idea that why using these cars, people so people can make an extra back basically it was very appealing to the drivers and to it was a system where he put together two people the drivers were all self-employed, so they the system developed, everything changed because and more and more percentage out of the driver, forcing the driver to accept certain rides. I think in the book, they have 15 minutes then they can't even get work. I think it's three rides in a row, you are locked I mean, I was in Calgary just now and I was picked he had lost his job. I think he was from West child. The wife was not working, had lost his job, salary, but now he was driving all the time. changed at all. I mean, Uber takes a big, big cut &quot;Well, why don't you go and work for a taxi See, that's the other thing because Uber has not everywhere, in certain places, all the what I talk about the book. These people have for themselves and the few other people like them everybody else. Now, that should not happen but the only place where they're trying actually the EU. In the US, it's completely wild market. regulations. Because they're a new technology, There's a lot in the book. I just want to close space exploration and eco side, but here's these people are quite gifted, but in terms of and of course, what we face in a moment of You really make that point around this whole something. So, let's close- Of course, it's completely absurd, but let's absurd. I mean, you actually write the physics of to your... It destroys your body. I mean, it's not Well, I mean, it took me a long time to write for me to make understand because, okay, as if they know it all. Because you think if I must believe what they're saying. Well, it's the reason why they're talking about going civilization and stuff is because that kind of dream about us being able to conquer the universe. objective, which is basically to colonize the low body can live in space for a limited still year with massive exercises to reduce the bond it is the low Earth orbit because the low so you're not completely out of gravity. So the orbit is because this is where the business forget about the Moon, forget about the asteroids. we could go and mine asteroids, you will have to live from the low Earth orbit. So that will be to mine space. But for now, the reason why they telecommunication. So because they put satellites data, suck our brains basically through their like you go to the north of Canada, the very north internet is Starlink. So Elon Musk is the only one in the Atlantic, or there is no internet. So Now, another thing I want to add is why is this data is how they managed to manipulate elections.&quot; going to be the fundamental factors of the future be able to go to war anymore. Whoever is going is how AI actually improves, is going to have So I think that again, they are a step ahead of and the reason why they're a step ahead of us governments do not even bother understanding So it is our fault, and that's what I say in we're sleepwalking. This is the end of the and we don't even realize.&quot; We think everything Instagram, we can talk to each other on Facebook, what the book does to just teach a little bit Well, because it goes back to Plato's cave, the apps and the screens while in a very real you have a section on what it takes to produce an emissions are, I think you write that producing it's all a game. It's all a very pernicious game Yes, exactly, system collapse but due to is always happened with the Tesla. I mean, at it doesn't take a lot to know that because if you minus 20, within a few minutes, your iPhone stops that's what's happened to the lithium batteries. this before. How is possible that nobody has Tesla producing all this stuff, saying, &quot;Excuse where the weather is never going below zero,&quot; but countries? I mean, what are you doing to Okay. So I think a lot of journalists do not don't have money, because I mean, newspapers and for God's sake, they do have money, so why there that kind of information that is put through Well, in order to sustain this technological it's an acceleration of our assault of course, we are given all these gadgets and order for this revolution to happen, we're This is why the idea of colonized Mars is part if you tell people, &quot;Well, don't worry too much overpopulation.&quot; Shall we discuss overpopulation and then Mars is going to be as beautiful as ideas to create artificial planets inside, which I think it's called Elysium. It's a film where people are on the Earth, they're left behind, artificial planets which are absolutely beautiful, where the weather is always nice. It's not cold, you don't worry so much about the planet because no, there is no solution. This is the only our grandchildren will not be able to survive. Yeah, this is the point of the book. Now, this technology was put at the use of the common could reverse the climate change. Of course, it is which is a problem that we have to address in a provide zero energy production for the entire Earth orbit, which harness the ray of the sun, and rays that send it to Earth, and they can power technology at the moment? I mean, the US is using That's right. Depends who has it. Exactly. Exactly. we live in an age where the technocapitalists and Loretta Napoleoni, author of Technocapitalism: for the Common Good. I want to thank The Real Granadino, Adam Coley, David Hebden, Kayla Rivara.