A car is one of the person will make in their But unlike a house, a car away. More than 100 million loan and auto loan debt is currently at $1.5 If cars are to be be affordable to affordable to repair. A car is one of the will make in their house, a car starts literally as you drive it You can keep it spotless regular maintenance and ding, dent and scratch value. Depreciation, the happens, is one of those automotive world thinks Consumers, automakers and market, which makes up million sales each year, of new cars. But in 2020, something turning the car market Used vehicles were about two years, which like that for the market. A lot of those trends have odd times led to lasting post-pandemic world. There are fewer cars to both new and used That is unlikely to Car buyers want their it will help them get decide to sell it at some trading it for a new one In addition, a lot of car which means if the resale low, a buyer could end up than it is worth. That is what it means to Similarly, automakers much value as possible, customers care about affects how automakers are an effective way of but are expensive to run Every car depreciates Luxury cars lose value value faster than SUVs, strong reputations for depreciate more slowly. But on average, cars lose as soon as you drive them There are a few reasons One is that we like new We just like being in a brand new once you take The 10% loss in value with another specific And that number, say some reason a vehicle's value first day of ownership. Incentives. Most new cars at one point or another consumer. An incentive is provided by a induce people to buy it. Prior to the pandemic, vehicle was about 10%. That means on average, about 90% of their MSRP suggested retail price. And so that car you 10% in value the moment What is actually market is pricing in the 10% discount or incentive you didn't. It's kind of a messy part because we can't go back transaction price is. But MSRP is on a year make And so we can go see the its original MSRP. Another factor, when you you are often selling or dealership. The dealer is wholesale price on the would fetch at a dealer auction. Those prices are always price. What the dealer consumer for, as there margin that need to be wholesale value also depreciation consumers Higher priced cars have variants, so there is an their retail price and But there is a third so quickly. An economist Nobel Prize for coming up Akerlof's famous paper is lemons, and the idea In any market, there are This means sellers know they are selling than If you have a car and it's three months old and you that? If the car was a doing it because the car From that first day drop, further about another 10% In the second and third again. Estimates of how who you talk to and what Again, a car will fetch market than it will on a during a transaction and seller. In normal new vehicles year after the value of any given Add to that the normal with ownership. It's like your tires wear your door over time. You know, maybe there's a Maybe your kid spills the you know, the and all of that's just which means that it's not was or to put it back in have to invest money to After about three years, historically held about Three years is a kind of market, because that is lease, and leased source of vehicles for There are exceptions to Exotic cars, collector Any car that is highly normally and can even It is rare for a car to value, but those are some You know if you like you might actually sell Some OEMs are trying to I think Tesla just had in just pull it back again. So you cannot resell year. At one point, Tesla even resellers for $50,000. It reportedly removed the agreement in mid-November truck's release, and then Cybertrucks started internet. This was also Ford GT. Ford sued Cena for reselling his after purchasing during people stayed away from flying, used car values around 30%. Take your $10,000 used that year, it was So people were buying year and then selling It's still your economy supply prices went up. It was just to the seen before. On top of it all, supply chain and chip number of cars in the weren't leasing or such as rental agencies. The few cars they were vehicles that help There were no incentives. New vehicle supply didn't drove customers into the Even rental companies, of their fleets at the were buying used cars at own customers. We had two very distinct appreciation, which is You know, we had prices spring and early summer kind of went sideways. September and they moved And so we ended that year values that were much, anyone was used to. Fewer new cars in 2020 2023 and 2024. That pandemic price bump cars are holding on to after three years, a 10% times. We expect some normal, more normal depreciation, prices is going to be So we've reset prices at a A lot of the goods and producing a car are still even though inflation is We're not in a period of It's highly unlikely that to having lower car The Federal Reserve has order to rein in made borrowing more quarter of 2023, almost financed and more than Incentives have increased, in, but not nearly enough The average new car price higher than it was New vehicle production and million units below the hit in 2016. That year, the average around $34,077. Average transaction were around $48,126. A lot of analysts think stay that high, it will record volume numbers. And that might be just A lot of the OEMs have want to sell that level You know, that they're smarter about producing and having to over their profits high. But this means that there available. A new car but a used car can be, times. Constraining the cycle in motion, where constrained over and over One of the perhaps hidden is that it creates a pool buyers who can't afford The price of a new car in $50,000. That is luxury It took almost 39 weeks, income to purchase a new That is down from a 41 weeks in December than the roughly 33 weeks It's the most important marketplace for people. I think there's a lot of replacement car that have everything they can to don't want to finance the you know, $25,000 or for it outright. There is OEM that wants to build a new and maybe decontented And whoever wants to go somebody probably will. I think they'll do really consumers need and want. Whether it's a sports car for a nice weekend drive with entertainment children, cars are There are more than 275 road in the United People, they equate cars There is this way in ability to explore and But in recent years, expressive, really More than 100 million auto loan debt in the trillion, a record high. Outside of purchasing or an auto is the second people. Given the vehicle prices today, these vehicles. In 2023, loan amount for a new $650 in 2022. The average monthly is $516 in 2023, up 2% Meanwhile, consumers car buying experience in It was a very quick like they just wanted me as quickly as possible. For years, complaints and up left and right against discriminatory and It undermines my trust. Our number one priority is And so we have put a place to ensure that is So what's happening in the what can consumers do to protected? Just like any other loan, of money you're given to you're borrowing and have Once you've been approved including a down payment, used car out of the lot, long as you make monthly of course. Take 32 year example. In 2019, he more than $48,000. He put down about interest rate for a makes monthly payments of By the time the loan is nearly $5,000 in And then there's a Until you fully pay back the title and can time if you fall behind Noelle Saldana was at work say their 2011 Acura had of their East Orange their one year old back seat. It's got back I got a little behind in Repo guys going into your night and taking your have these switches that There are direct and A direct lender would be union, or an online approved for a loan you can then head to the for your car, just like a As for indirect, that's and they provide you with you're buying a car. For example, you might be just picked out the family. The dealer sends to Chase. Chase checks financial factors, and an interest rate and loan Then the dealer presents rate and terms, and if get to drive away with It's more of an all in And about 80% of auto indirect. Now, regardless newer used car, or direct of the most important determine the interest offered is how confident ability to pay back that assets, liabilities, importantly, your credit Our primary goal is to put products that they can Chase Auto tells us they credit score of 620 and credit score typically in Toyota Financial Services credit portfolio, meaning very high credit scores. They tell us the average But we do support a larger those with maybe lower table with larger down affordability. Toyota is currently the loans and leases. In financing came from 4.4% came from Capital The partnership that we what makes us extremely We've got a concentration customers and our guests partners. According to Toyota, the services business providing financing to their customers. The mainly retail installment revenue for the financial For fiscal year ending in nearly 21% to Y=2,809.6 is about $19.8 billion. That's compared to its operations business that sales revenue in 2023 The Japanese automaker is The industry is going We're continuing to there buying vehicles. The demand is there and They are losing their going to go out of chip shortage still the rate of inflation level in over 30 years. More than half of auto finance companies, such automakers. These lenders term funding markets for So with volatile markets, short term funding the global financial decades have kept auto say the least. We went from a time of where we're more credit the risk of inflation, constrained, right. Because of the interest up, that is a huge In the first quarter of rate for a loan on a new from 4.1% in 2022. That's an about 15 year Average car prices are That's partly due to higher demand and That also means Americans higher interest rate. In the past ten years, doubled and auto loan is at a record high. Younger Americans are they've ever been in. In 2022, $20 billion in had fallen into serious I'm paying a ton of money don't really need. I've struggling to sell it. If it would probably be at a Miller rented his car out He's tried to sell it, offer that makes It's going to be at least owning the car before I'm This is something that from being able to save family. He's not alone with his changes are hitting lower Those with credit scores The Fed's interest rate out of the market. What we're seeing is what we saw during the that lower income people income people are having getting mortgages. And they're also at Being priced out of the Americans have a bone to industry. Besides the car-buying experience, complaints and lawsuits discriminatory and lenders than we have time A lot of the auto sales personally, not to say of them are doing it very order to get a high to get a great the interests of the financial livelihood, and mind. Remember that indirect earlier with Subaru and Or in that example, interest rate and loan or Subaru presents you in terms, that's often The consumer never sees company has said is the loan term that they will Let's say, for example, they want the minimum The dealer can bump it up never knows about that It violates all of our about the way markets It's a convenience. The dealer is providing By arranging financing, for the dealer and is lender. Chase and many financial on how much of a premium rate that we offer. consistency of variety of distributors. Chase auto did not provide caps are. Caps on markups lender, but are typically points. Lack of but a common reason some being treated unfairly. One of the more recent one. The Massachusetts $7.6 million settlement Corporation to resolve auto loan collection claims Toyota failed to sufficient information methods for deficiencies after their cars were I can't comment on that We stand firmly that our these specific really can't comment of the state allegations it. Back in 2016, a different $21.9 million to settle discriminated against by charging them higher borrowers. Toyota is not alone. I think probably all the have been hit with of the discretionary comes to the markups. Toyota wouldn't comment on Or this report, spanning former senior economist Bank of Chicago. It claims Black, Hispanic pay hundreds and extra dollars in loan white counterparts. Do you have any insight No. That is something I All of our risk-based Fico score and credit customer. We don't even That report is not nearly claims. According to this borrowers pay 70 basis rates, but default less These researchers say 80,000 minorities are they would have been white. Whenever people have making, that's where the very problematic. We spend a lot of time understand and are lending products to all their background. A class action lawsuit was Chase Auto violated the Practices Act and state repossessing consumers to 2018. In 2018, Chase JP Morgan Chase and debt Incorporated agreed to settle the case. What is and have business prevent future We undergo a variety of processes to ensure that all rules and have been a series of process, and we feel compliant with applicable For the first time in more the FTC proposed a rule deceptive financing The proposed measures switch claims, fraudulent fees, and requiring full costs and conditions. I've dealt with predatory Multiple members of my with predatory lending situations, and it's interest to have some sure that these aren't taking advantage But in July 2023, the U.S. House Appropriations government spending bill blocks the FTC from new rules. So what does It means new legislation corner. In the meantime, more programs are needed buying cars, and that key. My mother always knew how grocery store and went to cheapest price. When it have that ability. Do you believe a consumer rate directly from Chase, not they're getting to going to the sitting in the first time that they're loan? Yes. I think that And so if a consumer goes the rate, they can see be able to see the rates dealership or whatever loan from. Until we see changes in need to look out for Before getting an auto shopping around, check pre-approved online, go and bank, and find out might be able to get Right now, we're finding rates are with the credit Average rates within to the 6% range, whereas and 8%. You now have digital There's a wide range of available to help competitiveness of the that they're getting. Arm information possible. In 2020, Toyota launched retail tool that lets and apply for financing This concept of living when customers and guests what kind of vehicle they similar and transparent If you have the means, or maybe fourth dealer to and stay away from buy They typically offer the sometimes for up to 20%. Do your research, ask up. Even if it's been draining day, we all know see one more, but don't on the dotted line. If dealer you need more time Finally, vote. There are tremendous solutions, and those to happen if the decisions about federal willing to take consumers Until we can get protecting consumers, solutions. Customers definitely are The cost of vehicle repair several factors causing vehicles. New materials a worsening shortage of pandemic induced supply We're at this, you know, where a perfect storm may could use, where all of are kind of coming repair costs higher. The newest segments, such especially expensive to News reports describe new repair bills, but some optimistic. If cars are to be be affordable to affordable to repair, or fewer vehicle sales. So I think the automakers to drive those costs We have four technicians now. David Goldsmith has been for more than 40 years. He owns Urban Classics, a He says he's seen repair over the last few years. Customers are struggling we give them. I mean, our you know, our His impressions match Repair costs are rising rate of inflation. From November 2013 to vehicle maintenance and year, an overall change Meanwhile, all items in increased 2.8% per year, The increase has been pandemic. Ryan Mandell is performance for Mitchell, serving the automotive collision repair and auto He says the annual rate repair was between 3.5% pandemic, but since then In 2022, the number appears to have held For the full calendar repairable estimate was Mandell says that number as the data matures over I'm working harder than margins because all my Labor costs me more, Health insurance, all the we get. Everything costs An important distinction versus repair. Maintenance usually replacing or replenishing down or deplete over Your tires, wiper blades, Repair is fixing that can be due to a hand, or what is often Matt Moore is a Loss Data Institute, a Institute for Highway It's an organization industry to crash test research around safety. Moore says to blame. It could be expensive to repair. It could be that crashes a lot heavier than they powerful. Between 1985 vehicle weights increased Meanwhile, average over 100%. If vehicles are heavier crashes and or they are in the crashes, you're in the crash. More energy damage to the vehicle, vehicle, higher repair Meanwhile, in recent traffic crashes have At the same time, the collectively called such as automatic reduced the number of low A lot of these features as well at higher speeds. That has led to mean overall data set has severe crashes simply speed crashes are not Cars are also loaded with means a lot more can go About 17% of the U.S. are turbocharged, a power out of an engine. In recent years, make engines smaller and It adds a lot of extra plus additional exhaust cooling system, and so The number of all-wheel skyrocketed. In the came equipped with it. In 2022, 66% did. All of these systems weight on an automobile, the increased weight, but efficiency, performance, A lot of automakers have weight materials. Aluminum is one. It is more brittle than crash instead of bending disperses the crashes But because cracks are say, a dent, aluminum replaced. New mega casting or giga to dramatically reduce vehicle, a part of a. Car that might have been metal pieces can now be large ones. But again, breaks, a much larger replaced. Change doesn't Automobiles have entirely them. Your average regular car rolling network of That's been kind of slowly now. But really, we saw technology and vehicles where you now had many know, single safety different safety added to these vehicles and to reduce accident It adds up quickly. You know, we had a guy in Jeep the other day and crazy on the dashboard. And he had to decline the radar built into, uh, a that got cracked. And it was $1,500 just And you potentially have systems again, even if So we've seen that really since 2015. The incidence of the different operations if cost of doing a just a computer system on a about an average of about When you talk about like $500 per claim. Over there in the corner tools $10,000, $12,000, training that's involved, send send our guys out I have guys that come to the business for five whoa, where'd this come Finding enough talented Goldsmith's biggest The Covid 19 pandemic standing shortage. In 2019, the average an hour in the U.S. At the end of 2023, it Most of those increases Well, when the pandemic A lot of a lot of people, industries, a lot of the gals, they just said, I'm You know, I've worked, the business. The pressure is too much. The volume of miles drastically during the You saw really the volume up. And so a lot of industry, and we look for collision repair outside attract and talent to especially shops need to that to be the employer really driven a lot of increases, along with economic environment. Goldsmith pays some path and he is trying to train try to attract those at ideally like to have. They deserve it. They, every penny of it. I wish I could pay them trained and hard to come The pandemic also drove up Mitchell tracks a most commonly replaced In one analysis, the from 0% to 4% annually Disruptions at ports, China, spiked the cost of The average cost of went from $1,200 to In 2022, Mitchell saw the average cost of compared with the usual 0% to 4%. The OEM version of those little more steadily, or about 14% or 15% in One of the great promises simplicity compared with they ought to cost less But they have come under owners describe being bills, some totaling half In spite of these horror insiders say the total should fall as EVs become They use fewer moving change, there are transmissions. Wildly may have less to do with to do with the fact that today are, one, vehicles, and two, are relatively young mature supply chains and It's very difficult to with a broad brush. There are Nissan Leafs, vehicles which are relatively inexpensive. And then at the other end the Lucid Air, which is a $100,000, and some make 1,111 horsepower. Some EV models have a counterpart. The Highway compared the costs of that EVs were just 2% When you look at the ICE fleet, there is at difference in repair down and compare the cost Soul and Kia Soul EV, disappears. What is left, of managing an EVs high That includes ensuring it for damage and keeping voltage. There can be labor involved, including For example, urethane paint jobs are baked at which is hazardous to For some EVs, battery to five hours of labor. But a lot of this comes are marketed as the as such, often target addition to their still batteries, motors, and also loaded with a lot of in premium and luxury The EVs are really at the complexity revolution. The EV industry, it's in early, we're doing lots I think once it settles learning that occurs in manufacturing plants, in EVs are going to be a proposition for people