Hello, dear viewers, I hope you enjoy watching our video. Sadiq has learned from his past mistakes and seeks to make amends and try to build a good life. Please support our channel and turn on the language of your desired country by clicking on the CC icon, and you can contact Sadiq using the WhatsApp phone number 00989138394338 and donate to it. Thanks, follow us with likes and comments. Support me , guys , collect the garbage..Dad, thank you for fixing this room . Let me check, mom, we want to go play..Ok, take care, look at the series of lamps inside..This one..not like this one, but smaller. You are not an electrician, be honest. Plug it in and see if it turns on. You got it , ok, honest, thank you, you have really become a master, make it tall, fix the building's electricity yourself.. I don't know that much, collect these things, the master electrician who came, give him inspiration, put his things in a cloth and clean the mosaics, you need this plaster should we collect them, otherwise they will bubble because we need to cement the shoes..? Yes, Sadiq, I will bring a cloth to clean these tiles.. Bring a bucket and I will also collect these plasters. Mehsa, mom, take this and help me . I'll fix the engine and go to work with him. I have to bring money. We're in a lot of debt.. ok, go, so goodbye for now.. I have to go and fix his chain. It's broken. Guys, help me. Let's assemble the tools. Let's go to the room. Hello, tired teacher. Hello, thank you, what's the problem? The chain is broken, fix it, I work with the engine, please fix it as soon as possible, this is broken, it needs to be fixed, it will take a long time, it will be ready tomorrow morning... ok, I will come tomorrow morning, I will pick it up... give me a phone number, call me tomorrow morning, right Can I come and pick it up? I'm not comfortable with the engine. Hi, my dear, you must be tired. Thank you. What did you do? Did the engine get fixed? No, in addition to his chain , his ring tire was also damaged . At the moment , we have enough firewood for two days. Thank you for your support. Now the room is getting warm because the walls are covered. I have to go to work as soon as possible . Read, I want to take a dictation from you , Elham, who is knocking on the door , go and see who it is.. Wait, I have come. Hello, Mr. Mohammad, you are good.. Hello, my mother thanked you for your help. There was no problem. You were leaving the pot for yourself. Come in.. No, thank you. Come on, come down. Who is it? It's the same Mr. Mohammad, tell him to come up..he won't come..Mohammed, wait, Sadiq, come down , wait, don't go..Mohammed, I'm fine , come on, my hand is plastered, I'll go up..no, my mother is sick, I have to go, Mr. Mohammad, it's cold now, let's go upstairs, warm yourself up Have some tea, then go wash your hands, let's go, have some tea, then go to your mother, Elham, go make some tea..Okay , your mother is alone, right? Yes, ok, have some tea, go, I wanted to go and sell that junk, take it to the doctor. My engine is broken, otherwise I will take you. We will sell it and take it to your mother. Thank you. I'll take you and sell your scraps.. ok, thank you for plastering here.. yes, I made it, look, dad, who is this? He is the same uncle who was with us a few nights ago. Go sit upstairs. Tomorrow I will come with you to see your mother. He is even more miserable than you, Mr. Mohammad. Yes, I know you are more miserable than me, Mr. Mohammad. Your mother is fine. Thank you . I took her to the doctor. The doctor prescribed medicine for her. She said take these to your mother, I hope she will get better. She is sick. I don't know. She is an old woman. Did you leave the pot for yourself? No, thank you. I wanted someone to cook for us. When you come here, I'll feed you.. ok, thank you, what did you do with the clothes, Mohammad, I told you to wear them, what did you wear? It has a name... have dinner then go... no thanks, I have to go... have another tea... no thanks, Mr. Mohammad, take care of your mother, she is sick... yes, I am paying attention to her . He is more miserable than us..may God heal him, God, help everyone..Mr. Mohammad, I will take some washing liquid for you so that you can wash yourself and your clothes with them..thank you, I have to go. ..put on your hat so you don't get cold..inspire him, give him potatoes and onions , give him bread, thank you, Khan, keep it for yourself..no, we are helping you too. Be a lady, thank you, God bless you.. Be safe , Muhammad, come tomorrow and take me to your mother.. Okay, take care of yourself. Go, God, help us . Ilham, I am very sad for him. We are people, go ask your friends how many people are in their families and write here, your hand hurts, my dear , you worked hard.