Queen Elizabeth I may but what most that she was one of cutthroat and significant A bad ass to some. A merciless It's clear that our among the storied lineage Today, we're exploring was the most hardcore ruler But before we get started, to the Weird History Channel. Oh, and that's just not enough. Leave a comment, and let us you would like to hear about. OK, it's time to do a deep Elizabeth I. The England that Elizabeth was not exactly picture perfect. Her dad, Henry the VIII, had had done before him. He expanded the with the Catholic Church a Protestant country. And let's just say it That religious rupture with and led to conflicts between England was a mess torn and in desperate need of a Obsessed Girl Boss Who So after her father's death, as a young woman who was She may not have looked at, Elizabeth wasn't a big dater. In fact, she was turned off after the disastrous marriage and older half sister Queen went through six wives over and Mary's marriage inspired passionate outraged Talk about drama. Furthermore, Elizabeth's As a woman, she risked since she already had plenty of to rule. Marrying a foreign prince was Marrying a subject was a And also dating is Can you imagine how be if you were a literal queen? Instead of getting hitched, as a virgin queen and famously but one mistress and no master. Even though many believed it for a woman to rule, Elizabeth By not marrying, she was able and minimize factionalism Or maybe she just wasn't a Either way, being single served Elizabeth Elizabeth was never really She was her father's second Though she was born her standing in the changed when her mother and was beheaded in 1536. Since her mom was Elizabeth become illegitimate to ever succeed the throne. Most thought she wouldn't especially after her Henry the VII's kept growing, pushing his daughter further and But in a strange twist of died in 1553 at the age of 15. Suddenly the crown passed causing Elizabeth to When Mary married Philip of Because she had named her younger half So when Elizabeth finally she succeeded because she was standing. It was a real slow and steady Hell hath no fury as Queen Elizabeth expected show her respect. But her well-known vanity for would be spouses to wed Several of her ladies in and Katherine Grey most notably when they secretly married knowledge or permission. In fact, when Mary Shelton, secretly married John Scudamore she suffered a broken finger with her hairbrush. Yeah, you heard that right. Queen Elizabeth I was a freak who controlled all Very normal stuff. Men were just as likely list as women. Explorer Sir Walter Raleigh with Elizabeth. Dashing and headstrong, courtier tried her patience and so incessantly and lost his head. Whoopsie. The England that a golden age of the arts, piracy. England's chief naval and English privateers stole from Spanish ships traveling Spain complained bitterly that ransacked their ships, to curb the exploits of men Francis Drake. In fact, she rewarded piracy. Elizabeth may have been the perfect combo of Full of energy, she liked activity and educational She was extremely She was fluent in no less than her native English. Latin, French, Greek, She was extremely Not just a bookworm, was also an unapologetic jock. She was an avid hunter and her court was famous She was, in fact, If you had an entire country's you'd probably to read your astrology chart Well, that's what Elizabeth One of Elizabeth's was actually in alchemy and astrology. John D, or Dr. D was one of the most in the Elizabethan world. He was a mathematician, a and an astrologer, whose console In fact, D encouraged and was steadfast in his belief was in North America. Sounds like a total D wasn't just a man of He was also kind of a Goth kid. His particular brought interesting For years, D turned for his own spiritual guidance. Edward Kelly, of to have secret occult could communicate with angels. Also, fun fact. D was probably the for the character of Prospero Tempest. Just because you're mean you have to actually Indeed throughout hooked up with a list Most notably was of Essex, who was a companion for several decades. Some scholars even believe the love of her life. Elizabeth was a known and maintained of Anjou, a prospective husband, Heneage. As she aged, she made no effort Towards the end of her reign, steps onto her former rose quickly in her he was 33 years Someone get a tracking is on the hunt. Meow. Rob flirted his way and their relationship sent He was as vain as he and his star fell as Sadly, their relationship against Gloriana. Elizabeth broke by having his head separate As a teen, Elizabeth with her widowed who had been her father's After the death of Parr had married and Seymour moved and her 14-year-old Anyway, Liz's new started being really creepy. He harassed the poor teen by walking in when she was nude. This caused quite a stir. Catherine caught quickly and gave it the kibosh. Furious, Catherine in a bid to separate them. Tabloidesque rumors suggesting that she was The rumors however speculate that her predatory is what turned her off to In 1554, Elizabeth's who was the Queen of became deeply suspicious In the wake of Mary feared Elizabeth could As a result, Mary imprisoned her for several months in Elizabeth toiled away in that for months. The guilt of must have eaten away at did name Elizabeth before her death The Elizabethan era is in English history, a time when This is largely due to was relatively peaceful Due to peace this guy named Shakespeare was and this other guy, tried his hand at poetry. Elizabeth also cultivated and many of her courtiers like Sir Philip Sidney Since Elizabeth ascended to of circumstances, it was natural about her power. Intelligence was thus and so she kept a Sir Francis Walsingham. Walsingham was an and much of his to limit the influence And he had spies placed Walsingham also to code and decode letters. A true 16th century James Bond. The Babington plot in to assassinate to replace her with Mary, the exiled queen Queen of Scots. The Babington plot was intended to invade England. The plot hatched by its namesake Ballard was as brazen Elizabeth's spymaster used his master spy skills foiling it completely. This did however of Mary Queen of Scots. Mary was lured into himself who, in lured her into the could gain evidence she was a throne. Sneaky. Love her or hate her, it's clear of England restored the to powerful empire status. Between her Navy building it's clear that Liz has forever as one of the most memorable What do you think of Great leader or a Let us know in the And while you're at it, check from our Weird History.