- My name is Ken Parker. We're here in my workshop in I am a 50 year veteran, I and that's where I do my thing. My father was a pretty good violin player, and my mom played piano pretty well. And on Saturdays, they used to play duets and that was something that fascinated me. They clearly had a blast doing it. I mean they were giggling And it was a beautiful set of memories watching the two of them (gentle music) In my home, everybody seemed to be able to make everything that we needed. My dad was pretty good with and my mom was a pretty good dress maker. And I would say that my for my first understanding of how a project takes shape Have a look at this, huh? Woo-hoo! That was walnut from Pennsylvania. I was one of those kids and put it back together. First guitar-esque project was I made a guitar out of a stick of wood and some corrugated cardboard, which didn't work because about corrugated cardboard at the time. But I think now I could of materials and build an instrument, but I was pretty bummed out When I lived in Rochester, I was able to get a job Richard Scott Newman, a He did things with wood and wanted to understand. So I spent a couple years trying to figure out how to qualify which I finally was able to do. And that's when I built my I built a four string fretless I learned a lot from that, when I started out at the music store, &quot;Don't touch that, kid.&quot; So here I am looking at the fender bases on the wall like this, And my conclusion was, well it's just a couple pieces of wood and a couple pieces of metal. How hard can this be? And then it wasn't until I that I discovered that it actually is quite a complicated thing. When I was 21, I took in Rochester, New York. His name is Dick Longdale. I was fascinated with his Gibson L12. I couldn't believe how great it sounded. And the rest of us were turning our knobs or changing our strings trying to figure out how And we just couldn't. And so I looked and looked and looked. After our lessons, I looked inside with a flashlight trying to figure out what I was looking at. And then I went and tried to and I played all the ones And none of them were anywhere near as good as the one he had, early '40s Gibson L12 without Big, beautiful, round low nice note separation, beautiful trebles. It was a great guitar. So I decided if I maybe I would just have to make one. And so that year, I started So I was turned on by how great a particular archtop sounded. And then I quickly discovered that that particular archtop was an outlier. It was an exceptional instrument, and it made me wonder, why So in a lot of ways, that's trying to figure out why or maybe a little better? It was pretty obvious that guitars were not that there was a big and one that you didn't want. And it seemed to me to guitar players. One of the things I wanted was ensure that we delivered that didn't need repair and serve the musician as One of the things that I'd in wooden guitars is and bend somewhere around here. The wood is loaded with a which adds up to amount of or something like that. And that's quite a lot of force to sustain year after decade after decade. So this is where composite and I added it to wood as an ingredient to help the wood withstand that it sees as a result of having a set of guitar strings tuned up to pitch. Here's a guitar that was made You can see the neck is with some composite carbon fiber and epoxy, or both. And this is what we would So just like a cicada or a lobster, all the strength of the structure is right at the outside surface. And we don't really care so much about the material on the But most of the loads are being taken by the skin of the structure. - Ken's probably the most accomplished guitar builder in the world today. I think if you look at what he No one else can conceive it. We developed all the processes and machinery at Parker to build these. And the Parker Fly. - Ken's influence is palpable throughout the visual Companies that you see of the traditional that we've become so familiar with, the Fly gave them the - This instrument was made by me in 1986 in my grandfather's basement. This is a one-of-a-kind guitar. This guitar weighs 2.3 pounds. It's made of Douglas Fir with a little bit of composite material. This was one of a series The thinking was that without a body. In other words, a top So, composite material, you could think of it that way. Expensive, poisonous manmade wood, and added to wood to kind of that's more suitable for and long-lived instrument making. Most people understand that a violin or an archtop guitar starts and then many, many, many cuts later, you end up with a thin piece of material that describes this convoluted shape that becomes the top or back of our instrument. It's a very labor-intensive process. In order to think that that's a good idea, to put all that work that you could have of flat top parts, you have to feel like you're Why would you do all of that work if it wasn't coming out better? So Orville Gibson decided that putting the violin into mandolins and guitars and harp guitars was really gonna make the instruments better. And he proceeded to do that. And I feel that he was dead on about that. And in fact, the idea is inherently superior to a flat plate. Again, this is my opinion. Now I think that one it means that the loads to the top are distributed by the shape of the top, and not by additional twigs There's all these braces that So the archtop guitar And the only reason that I made anything except archtop guitars, which I fervently believe in and love, the only reason I did in the late '70s, I just The people didn't need So by the time I was done with my decade at Parker Guitars, I wanted to come back to it. That's what I had always When I was able to come back and do it, I studied all these got really good at making tooling, really was up to speed on how composites could conspire with wood to create extraordinary structures that both were reliable And that's how I was able to do the engineering work for this unique and I think exceptionally So this is how this works. This is a big carbon fiber pin that's an integral part In the body, there's a socket or sleeve, and of course the neck goes in there. It's adjustable with this which is a turnbuckle So this has a left-handed and a right-handed So when you turn it, it either draws the or it spreads them apart. So here I've made the action (Ken playing guitar) And now I lower the action. And you can tell it's still in tune. And now I'll lower the action too much. So anyway, but you can still but the pitch does not change. So that's kind of cool. (gentle music) I don't think so much about whether it's gonna sound or whether it's gonna be like a new color. I think of it more as of the way the string and supporting the string's The string is the fundamental structure of all of this stuff. I mean, what is this? It's It's a chordophone, So just the same way that a vehicle that rides on tires is it's the string that changes the energy of a person's body into sound energy. So I literally designed the guitar to support a set of strings. So I know exactly what gauge string I want to have on the guitar. And there's a variety of reasons for that. You don't want it to be too light because then there's not And if it's too heavy, then it puts undue strain on and injures people's bodies. So somewhere in the middle. I think the middle is a phosphor bronze strings. That's what I think, and that's what I've designed In 2005, my buddy TJ Thompson said, &quot;Check these new D'Addario strings out. You're gonna love them.&quot; He told me, and I quote, &quot;They say they last longer, but I don't care about that. They make my guitars sound better.&quot; I said, &quot;Sounds like And quite literally, those and recommended all these years. I just think they're about the best things you could come up with And for this purpose, I just don't see how you Eight years ago, the received two of my guitars that are on permanent display there. It's pretty great. So I'm in there with They have one of my original pre-production Fly prototype guitars, and then they have an not too different than this one. It's quite an honor, I feel. I'm really happy that it's there and people can have a