What do you know about what Scott Cawthon people know that he made some mediocre christian inspiration for Five Night's at Freddy's games about how some beavers looked like scary What if I told you before FNAF he also made this...and this and this. one of Scott's previous games The Desolate Cawthon's other media is not well known. making barely enough money to support his whose first theatrical installment has made a story about the history that led up to that nature of success. Scott Cawthon's repertoire of non-Five nights is broad in scope, style, and quality and of art all of which are undeniably his. A 70 games. I did not reach the end of many others required so much grinding that it would've by that time I wouldn't have much to say Some of the games go on literally forever. I didn't but I made sure to learn as much ones, and completed many of the lesser known based on internet archive webpages of The and Amazon pages. While I'm certain about I can only say I tried my absolute best to on the evidence provided. If new evidence "Oh my gyatt, I'm afraid! I'm afraid! Bachelor...meals. Well fear no more because a subscription plan and select from hundreds meals from chefs in Austin, Texas where I what kind of meals you like or don't like, in paleo and gluten free options, and more. expertise of award winning Chefs from across fully cooked, so all you have to do is heat For dinner I'm eating these cheese enchiladas A great citrusy vegetarian option with some was recording while I was eating there. For lunch the next day I'm having Glazed Again great work on the meatloaf, and the had before but it was delicious. For dinner I'm having West Indian Coconut Chef Nahika Hillery, these chickpeas really The subscription is super flexible, you can pause, or cancel anytime. or click the link in the description below and use my code SOLAR50 to get 50% off your out for yourself! Thanks to CookUnity for Scott Cawthon's very first game is lost "a blue blob moving around the deck of a pirates ran around. All library graphics of On Scott's Wikipedia I believe it refers but I couldn't find a source stating that 1995. The first actual date we have is 1994, when starts like this: sweet Doofas consists of shoots at enemies and collects coins and gems. making a game in the early 90s when they were swear this isn't a joke. This is the earliest will be 20 years until he releases Five Nights In 1996 Cawthon attended the Art Institute and taught himself to make games using Clickteam called Klik N Play was used to make Doofas, Cawthon has stuck with some version of Clickteam recent release. He also used 3Ds max for all Soon you will learn that Scott Cawthon is question that Scott Cawthon's setup has for diet coke and cheetos to create everything Five years later Scott Cawthon created, animated, animated shorts: Birdvillage Volume 1, and This...is the bad guy. He took Beak's bread! By the way how's the bread? It's pretty putrid stuff general. The Birdvillage film series is more interesting as a historical artifact than seeing the basic geometry, crispy textures, of how far technology has come. I also saw which added to the nostalgic and worn out of Veggietales in 1999 looked like this. So this doesn't seem too bad. In Stories from Birdvillage: Beak's Snowball become a defining feature of Cawthon's style. game he has ever made there is an appearance obvious that these are what he has the most robots are specifically designed to participate technology. There is a lot of charm to the episode and there's a ton of creativity, Scott Cawthon made two more Birdvillage films they are currently lost media. Birdvillage: 2002 Shroomin was discovered at the same time we have of it is a copyright entry, we have in 2002. In the same year Scott made a 3D art game lost media. The following media are all from 2003 and RPG Max 2, Demon Night, Dinostria, Dungeon, War, and Ships of Chaos. Stellar Gun is a boss battle shooter with they explode. At the end of the game you get Otherwise, it's fine. A MushSnail Tale is his next animated film more complex world that these really ugly cast consists of Priss Poo, Frup Foo, and to the drying lands of Mushsnail, with the The animation is...pretty bad with a lot of however, is surprisingly decent. &quot;Then the wolf ate the chicken and the wolf ate the butterfly and the wolf Goodnight!&quot; And there's a lot to appreciate Phantom Core is about a robot shooting things natural but unfortunately it kept crashing Phantom Core 2 Beta existed at some point The Fifth Paradox, is a pretty unremarkable style that will become familiar. The screen are kind of generic, but the style and cut Later in 2003 Scott released what he considered Legacy of Flan is a very basic and short rpg that have various abilities and fight enemies are these sloppy pixelated edges around every Alex Diaz (BigAl0104) on the Lost Scott Games Fusion, the reason this is so prevalent is mode, instead of exporting them from a 3D software in the Alpha issue in nearly all of his early games and was another weird choice he made, he couldn't lazy. There aren't many notable monster no Earthly idea what they're supposed to and stranger than anything else in the game. Legacy of Flan: Online is the sequel, and online multiplayer and there's some more is improved. Legacy of Flan: Storm of Hades is the next but the environments are much improved and Return to Mushsnail: The Legend of the Snowmill off his environment modeling skills and some in this primitive way. There's also another invention of Grampa that tries to capture their journey. At least...that's phase one. &quot;So what's phase two?&quot; Knock them out and drop them in the ocean.&quot; Flannville is an online game which shakes adding homes you can fill with furniture to in, and lots of mini-games. Unfortunately, little confusing so I didn't get very far. Junkyard Apocalypse is a game I tried to play, I made a virtual machine for windows xp and it was unplayable. I couldn't figure it of the game it's just a platformer shooter screen. Moon Minions is another short rpg with this alien trees differentiate each environment In fact, the final boss is this wacky amalgamation this gameplay element where your minion fighters is pretty cool and makes you engage with the Surprisingly none of these games or movies which counters the misconception that Scott wasn't until 2004 that there was a shift Noah's Ark was a pleasant surprise. There the animation but Cawthon's visual storytelling a huge step forward. This sequence where God beautiful and this sequence where you see around the ark after the world has been flooded become increasingly obvious that Scott cannot This is where I started to get a sense that for creating environments over human or humanoid The Legend of the White Whale is the first universe. Again it's a basic RPG that features to find the "white whale". Just look at thing I've ever seen. The jagged black pixel monster designs, and the final boss is Grampa grand children to protect the white whale. and I hadn't configured things correctly unless I wiggled my cursor over them rapidly were some technical errors on Scott's part, remarkable but sometimes fun to play. Flannville 2 has better graphics and works Flan gems among other items and again there's Chup's Quest is the sequel to the White but it's essentially a Zelda clone. I didn't in completing it. All you do is swing your your way around boring as hell mazes. It's any story either so it's just kind of pointless. Mini-Metroid is a short Metroidvania style a level based on super mario. Metroid: Ripped Worlds is a longer version based on other famous games. At some point pictures of Scott Cawthon's children and the strangest of his games in that there's The Pilgrim's Progress is an hour and 5 on the 1698 novel of the same name by John who learns about God and Christian virtues film is Scott's longest attempt at a narrative the same problems as his previous films. The &quot;Christian! Christian! Why did at the start of this path? Ah who has the time? The water is the gospel of Christ, The human characters look of this movie is that--let's just say "subtlety" is not in this film's vocabulary. &quot;Well yes the Celestial Oh really? My name is Athiest. I searched for the Celestial City No such place exists on this Earth.&quot; That's equally as blunt. There are a few creature makes Christian fight in a Dark Souls boss funny moments but the rest of the movie is Light From Above was made available to play one of his first explicitly Christian games. and is very bare bones. It seems to have a Progress game, which would be made five years Bogart is a standard 2d platformer that is It's kind of fun and the difficulty really complete it---I got a little heated. The main where shift is jump and z is attack and every power up instead of your usual whip attack. Bogart 2 the return of Bogart has an upgrade the same as Bogart 1. The main improvement x uses the power-up. Again couldn't complete of the games save your progress if you close The Misadventures of Sigfreid the Elf on Tuesday of long side-scrolling levels, there's a to it. You can return to the main area and areas. The ms paint art style has been getting one is no exception. The menu is kind of a game is more fun to play than the others in and you can stack power-ups, but I got bored it was going to have roughly the same level games. A Christmas Journey is Scott Cawthon's stab best of the worst, and one of the most clipped If there's one thing you can't say about say they're pretentious. Like most Christmas true meaning of Christmas, Ian and his sister grandpa's house for the holiday, when an tour of their neighborhood and explains the be about. Showing kindness and generosity Unlike other Christmas movies this one has anywhere else. &quot;Green beans and creamed corn? Every Christmas the good town folk leave Tis the season for free food. I guess Grandpa some of these cans You're gonna expire if you Weird Colony Online: First Strike is a game is currently lost. Weird Colony is a multiplayer rpg consisting lost. After Noah's Ark, The Pilgrim's Progress, Cawthon joined Hope Animation in 2007, there made animated films. The only Christian film website is Bible Plays, which Scott refused Animation made a remark about Scott's animation quality, that Scott may or as a criticism. Legacy of Flan 4: Rising Flan is another Flan there are still things about it that come the enemies are positioned in neat rows with it looks really artificial. Even the title that it's just another, probably okay RPG M.O.O.N looks much better than most of his but this time with mini-maps. The robot you rarely use it so it's a bit of a waste as at the monsters. The first stage of the last a plus. The Desolate Room features the first appearance we get an abundance of Cawthon's signature a small island collecting...eggs...for his short RPG that tackles some more sci-fi themes, on a charge system where you wait for your attack. The more you charge up the better to balance this with enemies that also charge in managing what resources you can spend and your healthbar. The areas where you fight time are entirely a 2d game within the 3D for the amount of time you play but there's out a build that works. Iffermoon is what Scott considers his first in its mechanics and visuals. The game play Room, except there's another mechanic where or a mix of both but I didn't have a need dealing offensive damage to the boss actually on defense. beings are pretty uncanny like always but the art direction of each and I often had a hard time believing one I was seeing. My favorite lair which is full of crazy gears and robot designs. Unfortunately reading dialogue in abilities were just not there yet, worse is The plot is revealed to be a Christian allegory state of the world then before the reveals in the game are fun some require a lot of this game is a lot more polished than his There's a secret boss in the game called down behind a certain column in the castle. in the game and I was killed pretty instantly, Scott Games discord has ever beaten the piper, themselves beating the piper. Screw 50/20 some crazy soul out there to try. In 2009 Scott Cawthon animated several science in mind, he only animated them and had no have any other games or movies from this year. of short stories of kids who use Christian cute work with many zany moments that even real life. The animation has noticeably improved get to see more of Cawthon's signature maximalist some references to an upcoming game. Bible Plays is very hard to hate. I say it's Plays 1 and Bible Plays 2 are short animations that recounts various bible stories. While funny even as an adult, &quot;Can we get back to our story please? He must build his boat! This is not a musical. I must build my boat! Say hello to the trap door.&quot; and while Scott's complete lack of self-righteousness sets it just a father and his kids making goofy shorts, voice acting, the hand drawn assets, and the one of my favorite animations from Scott Cawthon. Powermon is a parody of Pokemon where you with your Powermon, all while chasing a deranged this as a Christmas gift for his kids and not that captivating. Doomsday Picnic is the most fun to play of In the game you play as Scott himself or any them, battling evil clones of Scott's picnic the ms paint art style is unashamedly goofy, infringement, it's great. Scott's other had an ice level, a fire level, a desert level, is that the bosses could use MORE health because had a chance to see what the bosses attacks I enjoyed the Pilgrim's Progress videogame messaging is still corny but I think the videogame my favorite part of the game is that you can game where you can reach heaven in under 3 when creating sick enemy designs and environments of the game. I mean just look at these visual weakest designs and the contrast between the monsters never ceases to confuse me. The RPG to keep my attention. While the messaging messaging of the rpg elements falls flat. concepts like "grace, power, truth" just In new game plus I want to be able to play and beat the absolute piss out of every enemy of this century no competition. Slumberfish is Scott Cawthon's first mobile game where you try and maneuver a beach ball into a goal using different It's okay. Slumberfish Catching Z's is exactly the diving suit guy that guides you and you collect Finally, we have arrived at The Desolate Hope. game, many have said it is his masterpiece agreement, not only is it a massive improvement game on its own. On Lun Infinus, a station named Coffee who has activated a program to are five "derelicts" in the base. Two robots, the other two look like classic robot with vaccuum tubes and toothed claws. The giant. While Malenz and Mirad are the most help you on your mission. Sometimes these sometimes the environments are the ugliest command over a simulation in which they try way, according to their personalities and in the spiritual, and so they create these viruses that invade these simulations all like they could come straight out of a sci-fi with imagination and it's no wonder that is--to this day, the longest Scott has spent At the beginning of my playthrough I had many as I progressed through the game they became to be a lot more balanced than I initially some moments of frustration that stick out this a more enjoyable experience. The game can access simulations; top down shooting, upgrades and bosses. During the night, as far as I'm aware, you only and picking up collectibles to level up the only thing that would change about them was minigame would pop up which would allow you minigame immersion breaking as it didn't was not a satisfying secondary task. The night so it's not a big deal, but this part of based boss battles are the highlight of the you can understand and utilize everything screen. There's a part where you play several the boss. It's insane. It's overwhelming make it to the end you're so plugged in is so intense and fast paced that beating However, in many ways The Desolate Hope is the simulations you enter start to break down left in the base until it all shuts down, but at the end of the game Scott beautifully that you have seen time and time again throughout buttons and screens, now silent, forever cold yet it seems in the end all your struggles it. According to Scott Cawthon while his Christian of them were financially successful, in fact the lack of financial success, even going his doctor. as a cashier at Dollar General even as late putting his energy into making shorter mobile quote "anything to bring an extra forty his games get a lot more experimental and a lot lazier. Now since Scott removed most of these next do you play them? Here's the thing: YOU a collection of .apk files on the internet 11 pc, first by trying out Bluestacks 5, then I took the problem to a computer scientist laptop (but he also got me out of the bitlocker) phone off of Ebay and screen recorded that. There is No Pause Button is a non-stop platformer You get 999 lives and every time you die you with no rest breaks. It's fun but challenging. profile picture. Use Holy Water! is a...jesus christ we have Water! is a mindless shooter game with zombies, 20 Useless Apps is Scott at his most comedic. as basic as a game can get. Some are just out of me a few times. I mean it's exactly Strangely enough, we have to take an abrupt 2013 Scott Cawthon made his first piece of and not even a game, but an electronic book of child murders in an orphanage. I know, himself had not confirmed its existence. Forever Quester is barely a game but is kind rpg where you get alerts of what your knight buy things for him. I don't really get it Rage Quit is just like there is no pause button you die ten times the game will "rage warp" game do that before. Fun but challenging. Cropple is a puzzle game where you try to be planted like Tetris pieces. It's fine, Golden Galaxy is a game comprised of Desolate a side scrolling shooter. It's fun enough kept getting killed by a gear obstacle that Vegas Fantasy Jackpot just has assets of Scott's gameplay is you click spin and if you get Vegas Wild Slots is just a classic generic Aquatic Critter Slots is the same except sometimes can buy fish to fill up an aquarium. It's Mafia! Slot Machine and Scott's Fantasy play a version of them. Platinum Slots Collection is just a collection go to one place. This collection also has Scott's Fantasy Slots. Bad Waiter Tip Calculator is unavailable. Pimp My Dungeon is a resource management game master placing traps to damage the hero. It's it some more. Spooky Scan is an app made for "detecting, lurk in the darkness" it is currently unavailable. Hmm...I have some down time...it's been thing again...uh hey my knight gained over caught a bunch of fish now I can buy more Well played Scott. Well played. Finally, I made it to Chipper and Sons Lumber beaver who owns a lumber company, you go around and using plans and land your father gives wood. It's another acceptable mobile game of Scott's humor like how Tyke's father wrong species. The modeling has improved a world are cute. The main mechanic of watering them for lumber, and building costlier and more and more lumber to use to make costlier waster, as was common in many mobile games being creepy I do agree with, but at this that it didn't bother me at all. The main that combined with the fact the characters why this game couldn't get greenlit by Steam. V.I.P. Woodland Casino is based on Chipper other slot machine games except it has one "Ok kiddo, so your father has gotten himself opened this new casino, very shiny, and you long story short, I may have gambled away tuition and our home, the deed to the forest to win back the forest from the termites!" Jumbo Slots Collection is just a huge collection unavailable. Bible Story Slots and Hawaiian Jackpots are 8 Bit RPG Creator is a small game creator. and intuitive app and I know getting something I probably couldn't make something amazing creating levels for the hour or so I spent Fighter Mage Bard is the first appearance The game is a basic rpg just like many others. Chubby Hurdles is a truly aggravating game extremely slowly with very precise jumps. Pogoduck is about a duck on a pogostick jumping and you shoot straight down to hit a podium. and fine for what it is. Magnum Slots Collection is an even bigger unavailable. 8 Bit RPG Creator Zombies Attack and 8 bit Finally I made it to the game you've all generation...FFFFFFart Hotel. This game is you try to read the facial expressions to Obviously, Scott Cawthon's most cerebral Guys I promise we're almost done. Gemsa is like candy crush but with far less pointless. Shell Shatter is just Gemsa but with shells Dark Prisms is currently unavailable but I Kitty in the Crowd is where's waldo? but there's only one image they hide in because gets pretty boring. Sit N Survive is a game where you sit in what in the world and buy things at the end of It's a constant balancing act where you bugs, bears, acid rain, lightning, and even to survive as many nights as possible. It's execution. It's very fun and kept my attention I actually want to play it more after this and it would soon be proven Scott Cawthon game design. This is it, this is the last and 3 days remain. Within those three days Jim Sterling, a fairly posts this video. &quot;Terrifying. It's just all over the fucking place--and that thing looks like it's but there are a few comments, some of the specific remarks: Jim sterling also mentions that the greenlight steam page was taken down criticism had gotten to him. Playing through all these games brought me some out-of-left-field RPG he randomly made, what he usually makes. A majority of Scott Christian, they're just weird. When Scott months of each other---that's not him just franchise--that's just his regular output he would make at least 3 or more games or or not. He's just a prolific maniac. Many his games contain minigames Iffermoon features in-universe arcade machines. A lot of his which is unusual considering Fnaf 1 has such brisk and easy to mild in difficulty for the shoot up in difficulty near the end. The music environment. It's crazy how much foreshadowing looking creatures in the backgrounds, to the animatronics. While researching for this video I got this FNAF all these animations, all these games kind of a miracle we have most of these games most of them are playable. This whole thing, projects is because of a few dedicated people they care. Scott Cawthon just kept deleting as an artist, it can be frustrating for other works. The only reason we know a lot of these archive's wayback machine can let us look able to not just find but also restore media and it just leaves me wondering: If the backlog of the 21st century has this little covering what else is out there? People like to talk a lot about how FNAF 1, games that undeniably changed the indie game and 4th games have plenty that can be critiqued and everything since then looks kind of bad---I Five Nights at Freddy's is one of the few of its premise, okay maybe not perfect for story details, but for everything else--basically I could levy at it that would make it any aspect. A simple point and click game about and/or malfunctioning animatronics cannot of all the thousands of possible decisions made the correct one for every element. The your mind wandering. The animatronics have between being just cutsey enough to look like under the right lighting conditions they are of fanart that have tried to redesign the just short of the originals in this aspect. through the sound design, the static, the of every detail in the pizzeria. It all looks and early 2000s...because in a way...it is. head so perfectly because Scott Cawthon has but endearing art style for years. That's storm. Fnaf 1 got so popular because there at Freddys is a work of genius. As we've gone through these works there's goes beyond how otherwise unremarkable most ground breaking. Don't get it twisted I was just a waste of time, because it wasn't. last in some way. When I look at these two lifetime. I can imagine all the late nights, the frustration, over years and years, building The Desolate Hope is Scott's best game next gameplay I got a lot more out of the Desolate to play. Bible Plays and a Christmas Journey The environments in Iffermoon and the Pilgrim's library of badass designs is nothing to scoff For 10 years Scott has relied on the Five another. I want to see him take a chance again using all of the skills and resources he has for granted how special it is to have a group I can't read his mind but I sense that maybe not connected to the Fnaf brand no one will In reality there is a group of people who over again to find and restore non-fnaf related these people from playing these games. Scott Freddy's, and this community proves it. Scott Cawthon is not a genius, I don't mean is way more inspiring. Clearly he has talent fair share of problems. He was persistent, big hit. He has strengths in some areas and strengths. The game has no human characters the writing only hints at the story, there and intuitive enough, that at the end of the still easy to get into and fun to play. Even the story be told through a phone message, like was common in many of his other games, naturally. Scott Cawthon knew his limitations is what makes the first game a work of genius. idea at the right time, in the world. And that's good news. Because it proves that being successful is not something to be some dormant trait that is only effortlessly Scott Cawthon worked hard, and he failed many him was not an inevitability. He could have same types of games and animations for the let it go altogether, but he knew his heart games. So he adapted. He kept going. years ago without Five Night's at Freddy's one man saw criticisms of his work, talking looked back at the sum of all his animation of giving up--said: "alright, check this &quot;This is, God help me, Five Nights at Freddy's. Hey what's happening everyone? This is Yamimash. Hello everybody my name is Markiplier and welcome that you guys suggested en masse But y'know I was watching Y'know 5,000 downloads, 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 Did you think it was going to, y'know, No, of course not. It taught me to never take to have a group of people who To have a fanbase, y'know, of people who y'know that is the only thing that matters. I would like to give a big thank you to the Without their help this video more difficult to make. Especially, PhilLeBrave (CawthonMedias), Alex Diaz (BigAl0104), and to thank Aidan for technical support. I also now have a Patreon, those names scrolling like to become a patron to support the channel and more you can click the link in the description Anyway, my name is Solar Sands and goodbye.