Farah Pahlavi was the last queen and empress For 20 years, she was on the throne and bathed But in 1979, after the Iranian revolution, and children under the threat of a death sentence. Since then, her life has completely changed. Where is she now? And how does she look 44 years later? Keep watching the Wow channel. The life story of Farah Pahlavi is very fascinating, different events, both joyful and sad. In general, her life can be divided into two For the first 40 years, she lived in her homeland, Then, she had to settle abroad because it She had to endure significant losses, struggle That's why her story is so interesting. Farah Diba was not born into a royal family. Her relatives did not have royal blood and to the emperor. However, her story is far from being like Farah Diba's family was wealthy and noble. In the late 19th century, her grandfather Ambassador to the Romanov Court in St. Petersburg, Her father was an officer in the Imperial However, the family had difficulty financially Under these circumstances, they left their in a small apartment. It must be admitted that in the 50s, Iran women's rights and education. Many Iranian students, including girls, could Farah Diba was one of the girls who went to She was first educated at the French Jeanne the Lycee Razi. The girl also studied architecture at the In her youth, she was also an athlete and In those days, the Iranian Shah Mohammad Reza met with Iranian students who studied at public In 1959, the Shah visited Paris and met with Among the students was 21-year-old Farah Diba. The Shah was 20 years older than her, and then. His first wife, Princess Fawzia of Egypt, due to personal differences. The second wife, Queen Soraya, could not have the country needed male heirs. That's why in 1959, 40-year-old Shah Mohammad Of course, his chosen one had to be, first heirs. Farah was perfect for this role. She was beautiful, educated, from a good family. The romance between the student and the Iranian In the summer of 1959, she returned to Tehran. In November, they announced their engagement. On December 20 of the same year, their luxurious This event was widely covered in the world The bride looked chic in a dress designed the house of Dior. The wedding tiara was ordered from the famous diamonds and weighed 2 kilograms or 4.4 pounds. The groom was dressed in a traditional military Their significant age difference was visible. At the same time, everyone understood that whether Farah Diba could give birth to male "The king was not marrying a princess; he marriages between families of royal blood. No, he had fallen in love with a "little was going to follow his heart," Farah Pahlavi A year after the wedding, the new queen of What happiness it was! The first child turned out to be a boy! Three years later, their daughter Princess Then, the second boy, Prince Ali Reza Pahlavi, In March 1970, the couple welcomed their fourth No one ever expected Queen Farah Pahlavi to All that was required of her was to give birth The first time after the wedding, she was However, after the prince's birth, she devoted Like many other queens, she often participated She often attended the openings of educational The Queen was excluded from politics; she culture, and social problems. She could influence her husband in these areas. At the same time, the queen once had a conflict Ashraf, who was her rival. Queen Farah Pahlavi asked her husband to reduce Gradually, Farah Pahlavi became one of the She was engaged in humanitarian work and patronized Queen Farah was perfect for the role of the She had an impeccable dressing style, spoke rights. Foreign journalists called her the Eastern She also loved art and collected masterpieces The Queen put her significant patronage behind Thanks to her, the museum has amassed an enormous achievement. Farah Pahlavi was very visible in a region the public. She traveled around the country to meet her She also appeared on magazine covers. That's why she was called the &quot;working empress.&quot; The 20 years that Queen Farah Pahlavi spent The husband and wife adored each other and They also lived in luxury. In 1967, the Shah proclaimed himself Emperor Their luxurious coronation ceremony took place The Shah officially named his wife regent the crown prince's 21st birthday. The appointment of a woman as regent was highly In 1971, the imperial family hosted a 2,500-year together the elite from around the world. It was an incredible celebration, the purpose of the Iranian monarchy. However, this event caused great discontent were highly dissatisfied with the emperor's Gradually, discontent grew in Iran and led The Shah of Iran, his wife, children, and The Shah of Iran and his family had to wander government of Iran ordered their extradition, A year after his exile, the deposed Iranian and was buried in Egypt. His wife and children took refuge in the United Since then, a new life began for Farah Pahlavi. Accustomed to life in the palace and receiving ordinary woman abroad. However, she continued to be respected. The former queen continues to be a guest of She is also actively involved in charity. In 2001, Farah Pahlavi lost her youngest daughter. Princess Leila was found dead in a hotel in Her blood showed elevated levels of the drugs Princess Leila was buried next to her grandmother After her daughter's death, Farah Pahlavi D.C., to be closer to her son and grandchildren. In 2011, her youngest son, Ali Reza Pahlavi, It is difficult to imagine what grief it is However, she had to survive this blow too. "What happened was so hard," she says. "I thought, I have to be strong for my other for my grandchildren, but also for the many same loss." In 2003, the former queen wrote a memoir about My Life with the Shah. The publication aroused great international It was a bestseller in Europe. National Review's Reza Bayegan, an Iranian with affection and sympathy for her countrymen.&quot; Today, Farah Pahlavi is 85 years old; she her son, Reza Pahlavi, Crown Prince of Iran, Farah Pahlavi also has one granddaughter through After the death of her husband, Farah Pahlavi Every year, she go to Egypt to visit his grave Today, Farah Pahlavi lives in a luxurious Even though she hasn't been to Iran for 44 home country. Farah Pahlavi is outraged that women and many Iran. "I believe in freedom for women to have to hold high positions, the right to take - she says. Thoughts about her homeland break her heart. Iran has so much poverty and tyranny that "Light will overcome the darkness, and Iran They should keep strong," she added. "I honor the International Women's Day with wounded, imprisoned women, mourning mothers, I do not doubt that the leading and tireless regain their honorable position," - she Farah Pahlavi's life is like a Hollywood movie There were so many different events in it. A young girl who met great love settled in everything. The only thing she has today is hope. She hopes that one day, Iran will be free. And even if she doesn't get to see this Do you believe it? Thanks for watching. Remember to share your thoughts with me, click See you next time.