White label and control Ah! Ah careful Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Ah! Yes Ahhh Uh-huh. Uh-huh. It's finally over. Director, you are finally back We are very happy that you can come back. Do you think so? Yeah, yeah. Hurry up and pick up the station Be sure to deliver it to Shanghai within 6 hours. Understood, after the surgery is over Beijing to Shanghai only AX2077 left by ASIA Airlines However, the airport will activate a green channel for organ transportation Cooperate with our route support Keep in touch with the airport at all times The captain's inspection is complete Special circumstances of two eastern abductions Special circumstances of two eastern abductions There will be two passengers on this flight Transplant organs to Shanghai Transport ion organ Two abductions received Pay attention to cardiac protective fluid We want to leave as many blood vessels as possible So when you operate on the recipient There can be more space for matching. Okay Is the cooler ready? We are ready. Order You were amazing. 10 minutes early There's still a lot of gold in this hand Hurry up and go to the airport You got it Be careful on the road, you know Dr. Xu Dr. Xu doctor I hope my husband's heart will continue to beat My baby is about to be born Although he can't see his father But I wish he could hear Dad's heartbeat Don't worry. I will definitely fulfill your wish. Thank you even more for your husband's selfless donation Please doctor I'm leaving now. Just received the notice This flight will transport transplanted organs to Shanghai The doctor is on his way We prepare according to the plan Remember to reassure the passengers cooperate well go all out Received thank you captain Welcome to Asia Youth Airlines Hello, Mr. Li. Hello please. Mr. Li, please Mr. Li, would you like anything to drink? No need, I won't bother you. Hello, Miss. Please. Student, look over there, boarding has started The navigation shows that it will be blocked for another 45 minutes. It must be too late. Excuse me, sir. We still have two passengers who didn't board the plane. The specific time will be dispatched by the tower. Please wait a moment. Excuse me? Excuse me. The two buildings of the pressing line are abducted and tied Two buildings abduction answer The doctor was stuck in traffic. Unable to arrive at the airport on time It takes off in half an hour. Waiting for the heart organ Yangdong abduction received Good evening, travelers I'm the captain of this flight due to This flight is responsible for transplanting organs to Shanghai Healthcare workers are temporarily unable to arrive at the airport on time Can't wait any longer Find another way Xu Sheng, where are you going? Sorry, soon, soon, soon. Transporting organs It's not that I can't catch this plane. Just let them sit down. It's the following. Mr. Li Because this is the last flight to Shanghai Please be understanding. I understand you. But can you also be considerate of me? My mother-in-law is having surgery I can't go back My wife divorced me You took the responsibility. I understand, I understand. But my plane will take off soon, don't worry. It's not that I'm worried. I demand that you take off immediately To how much? It doesn't take off until 10 o'clock. Can you go just by giving a request? Thank you. It's okay. It's okay. Hey, everything is going well. Come on. shutdown master There was a first-class passenger who disagreed with the delay Got it. I'll take a look. Do you know how many flights I fly on SIA a year? Captain, what's wrong? I, Wang Canchen, am explaining to him. And you know what? I'm really sorry, Mr. Li. What's the use of your apologies? I'm in a hurry. Hello, Mr. Li. I am Guan Yuqing, the captain of this flight. It's the following. What about the hospital in Shanghai now? He's ready for surgery. Just waiting for this heart If we take off now Patients will lose their chance of survival I don't think that's what you want to see, is it? Just learned about your situation. You are a person who places great importance on family So I hope to get your support. If necessary I can represent the company Call your wife and explain I believe I will be able to get his understanding. You call my wife Then I don't have a wife. Okay, okay, don't say so much I'm feeling unlucky, okay? Thanks a lot. Thank you for your support and understanding. So what's up? It's called Please be patient. Hello from Yanxin Hospital Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Doctor Xu, this way please Everybody, everybody, I'm sorry. I wasted everyone's time The plane is ready to take off. Thank you for your understanding and cooperation. Two crutches in Yaxing Two buildings in Yaxing turn off the Shanghai district radar incident Two crutches in Yaxing Aviation Weather Alert Strong winds in southern China Thunderstorm Forward Wind Arrive in Shanghai in advance Shanghai Hongqiao Airport and Pudong Airport Will close at 22:00 Please report your intentions Two turning pipes in Yaxin apply for diversion to Nanjing Four taels down 3,900 Please direct Received Dear passengers Due to thunderstorms Shanghai Hongqiao Pudong Airport is temporarily closed This flight is expected to divert to Nanjing Landing in Nanjing From Nanjing to Shanghai There's no time to finish the surgery. Dr. Xu's plane is bumping Please return to your seat Excuse me, I need to talk to you This is out of order. Please go back If the plane lands in Nanjing I'll transfer to Shanghai again. It's not going to happen. It's a matter of life Please. Wait a minute. Hello Captain, the doctor wants to talk to you Give him the phone Hello chief Hello doctor please say The patient in Shanghai I've been waiting for this heart for two years If you land the plane in Nanjing now I'll transfer to Shanghai again. We're not going to be able to do this. And this patient's life is in danger. We don't want to land in Nanjing either. But Shanghai airport closes at 22:00 Even if you fly to Shanghai Air traffic control also did not allow any planes to land. The donor of the captain's heart He was supposed to take his wife for a maternity check-up today There was a car accident on the road. He tried to protect your wife and unborn baby Unfortunately died This heart It is the expectation of two families Director Really, please. This passenger Please return to your seat Give me some time. Well, thanks. Sir, please sit back first Thanks. Fasten your seat belt. Captain, I thought I was diverted to Nanjing Get ready. At your command Wait a minute and hover in place The chief patient's blood pressure and blood oxygen are dropping rapidly The patient can't take it anymore Why is the heart not there yet? The director contacted the airport Due to the weather Pudong Airport and Hongqiao Airport are both closed The plane cannot land. Xiaobai, I want to be called Wuxi. What wuxi Shanghai two holes abduction application for diversion to Wuxi Shanghai received Thunderstorm Striker is about to arrive in Shanghai Wuxi Airport is also about to close You only have half an hour. Two holes abduction, are you sure you want to divert to Wuxi? Yes, two abducted Jedi were diverted to Wuxi Apply for high speed entry High speed approach captain Ok, got it. Dear passengers The plane will arrive in 15 minutes Arrive at Sunan Shuofang Airport Please fasten your seat belt and carry the small table board. Adjust the seat to its normal position Please turn off computers and electronic devices Thanks. Mr. Xu, time is running out. We tried our best. I really want your child I can hear the beating of the heart. Doctor, please be the first to get off the plane. The crew has arranged a special passage Good luck with your surgery. Thanks. This Dr. Xu This is the rescue helicopter the captain prepared for you Go back and help me with this video Send it to the family of the heart donor? This is for the wife and the unborn baby The best explanation understand Dr. Xu, thank you so much You're quite welcome. This is what we should do. Dr. Xu, we are still afraid when we think about it now Fortunately, you arrived early by helicopter Otherwise the patient will be completely hopeless What do you mean? The patient was dying before you landed That is to say, even if our flight arrives in Shanghai on time It may not be in time for the surgery, right? No, not necessarily. Definitely can't catch up Dr. Xu was fortunate to have the captain arrange the helicopter Let's arrive early Is traveling like this? Your brother went to see the woman's parents Uh, what about this marriage? It's on the agenda. It's okay if you don't pay for the ring. But you have to help Bao solve this house. Ah, we can't get married without a house I will give up my old face today I'll let you pay for your brother's house Do you want to help or not? You give me a word now Yuqing, your father doesn't eat or sleep? Just waiting for you to come back What can we do about this? Guan Yuxia, my dear second sister yuqing Let me tell you something. Paul's marriage can't wait You know your dad's attitude Not so good, just guard the door and wait for you to come back Ask Dr. Xu. Just wait and shoot me You can't escape bridesmaid My Heart Too fast. Oh, son. Why did you suddenly fly to Shanghai? Look at you. Didn't you agree to report to your mother wherever you went? Mom didn't know about it until she called the hospital You don't know how worried mom is Have you finished the surgery? Have you eaten yet? Hey, is it still raining in Shanghai? Can you come back tomorrow? What time will you be back? Dear Bao, mom stewed Cordyceps chicken soup for you I bought a rural chicken. I know it's not easy for you to have surgery I saved it for you Come back early. Don't make mom worry Hey good boy Why don't you go back to your mother's WeChat? Where are you? You stand up Stand up stand up Let mom see the bathroom I cleaned the bathroom for you Oh, right. Son, remember? Go downstairs in a while A supermarket near you Go buy disposable sheets and quilt covers for replacement. Come on! Have you had dinner yet? What time is it? Hey, I haven't had dinner so late You see you see Mom's not even eating regularly Okay, okay. Mom told you to hurry up and eat, wait a minute Take a picture of my mother during dinner later. Hahahaha Wen Yuqing, let me tell you That VIP is very tough It's useless to make compensation Just to punish you Plus the indefinite landing Hey, once your punishment is established The coach captain you've been fighting for is out of the question Okay, let's talk about it tomorrow Are you asleep? This lady Is there anything wrong with you? I'm a doctor. Hey How is it you? Dr. Xu What's wrong with you? Is it the one these two days? No no I just run, and I'm running, and my stomach hurts. I'll check it for you. Ah! Ah, it's alright, it's alright Does it hurt you? Ah! Does it hurt? I don't hurt Fortunately, here Fortunately, here Ah, that's it, that's it Yeah oh yeah yeah yeah So does it change when I press so hard? Just like before Left lower abdominal pain The pain does not increase. There is no change in the re-press. It means you are not pathological pain It should be intestinal spasm pain caused by too much pressure Thank you, I'll just sit for a while Come on. I'll get you to the hospital Ah I'm not going I'm not going to the hospital. What age is it? Why are there people like you who can chirp? Let's go oops If I say no, I won't go Why are you so busy? Ah, not that, sorry? Okay, I admit that I am indeed too stressed Where do you live? I'll send you to the head office. OK. Hey, let me down, I can walk by myself Let me tell you something. You put me down I'll ask you again. Are you sure you don't want to go to the hospital? I'm really fine. When I was in aviation school The training is better than This is more painful I can hold on It doesn't matter. Ah, it's alright Thanks. Hey, lift up your clothes What's up? hot compress I'll do it myself Why is it so hot? Please listen to the doctor. Don't burn it, bear it Ah! It's so hot It has to be hot enough to work Then you don't think it's hot? Burning your hands red Yeah. Do you feel better? Seems better Thank you. Why are you also in Shanghai? I went out for a run so late just now What's the pressure? Doctor's inquiry The patient must respond. every day Every day when I open my eyes It feels like you are surrounded by people who need to rely on you No one shares for you No one can help you solve any problems You can only rely on yourself to hold on strong Sometimes I feel I feel sorry for myself, but no choice Do you know what the strongest muscle in the human body is? The heart! You bet it! But I see so many patients I also know how fragile the heart is Stronger means more pressure to bear If it is not resolved in time The heart actually hurts very easily So Don't think that being on guard is brave True love is cowardice Thank you for telling me this of course Thank you even more for taking care of me today Your abdominal cramps It should be fine Then you rest early Good night Good night Uncle and aunt, you came first. Just come for a while, sit down Don't sit there I sit there hahaha Hey, here comes Xiao Wang, take a seat This is my aunt and uncle. Hello, let me introduce myself first. My name is Wang Xiao I am 29 years old. Certified Public Accountant Monthly salary 40,000 It's on the Fourth Ring Road. Have a separate wedding room I have seen Li Bei's photo. She is just my type. Hahaha Uncle and aunt, is this? She is Li Bei's cousin Hello cousin, please vote for me I'm at my dad's The company does not care about receiving capital Mainly to train yourself Think again next year My family really has no other income It's just a lot of houses. If my aunt and uncle like it Can be exchanged I like kids Anyway, the house is quite big The children can ride a trolley in the hall It's okay to have a kindergarten party How about these two years? Prepare to immigrate If my aunt and uncle want it We can go there together Uncle aunt What does that mean? Several meanings It means to keep you awake You saw it yourself How many outstanding boys are there? They all like our Beibei What about your house? We can't see a brick. Why should I let my favorite daughter Follow you to the poor days, oops Ray Didn't we make it clear before? If the house thing can't be solved We won't make it difficult for you. But you don't want to delay Beibei either. Right? Right? And I'm going to tell you something today. Dad? Mom From now on I am your son From now on We are one heart The house thing As long as you say a word Whether it's up the mountain of knives or down the sea of fire I'm willing to do it Do you really want to be our son? Dear son OK Then ask your parents out Make it clear in person Where is this? Lei Lei ran away by himself We were supposed to come together Oh, do you want to find out who will? Who will come first? Don't blame him. You see, you're used to me Used to him Look at you Hey happiness Here I am Don't say don't say Oops, yes, yes, yes. Can you, Lei Lei? Where are you? Well arranged Right? Right here. Hey dad hey hey Coming, coming. Oops, you came first, hahaha. Hey parents Let me introduce you. Hey, this is me and you Often said My babe Hello uncle and aunt I'm Li Bei Hello. Hello. This is Beibei's father This is Beibei's mother Oh look you are older than me I have to call you brother My name is Li Aiguo Guan Yongnian, hahaha. Thank you for inviting us to dinner Ouch, it should be. It should be. Hey, sit down You are welcome Ok ok come come come Ok Hey Sit here Come, come, sit, sit, sit Yes sit Oh yes Good good good good Is it easy to walk on the road? Hey, it's okay, it's okay, hahaha. How long have you been here? Hahaha, these two children have been talking for half a year. Our families are finally sitting together today Right? Right? We just found out about the children. Right? Oh Beibei, this child People like it at a glance Yeah. Bao, are you too? You should have brought Beibei home long ago Let's see. Yeah, looking for the right moment Dad Dad, good tea Ok ok ok Hey mom, drink tea Hey thanks Lei Lei Hey, you drink too You drink too You drink too We do it ourselves No, you drink, you drink. Oh dad Why don't we order the dishes first? Ouch, I'm really hungry. Really hungry Right? Right? Hey waiter Give me the menu! Mom and Dad Take a look. What do you want to eat? You can see the arrangement for yourself. If you want it, you can order it. I'm coming, okay, okay. Oops This is nice. Come to this point Hey, this Beibei loves to eat it. Then click on it, click on it, click on it. Squirrel mandarin fish You like this That's my favorite. Click one, click one, okay, hahaha. Hey bro What do you like to eat? Take a look. Hey, you order it, you order it. Okay, let me see. Then I Why isn't this ordered? This babe loves to eat Click this again. Another hot one Almost the waiter Just follow these dots. Ok, wait a minute. Hey wait a minute My parents have a weak taste Ask the chef to use less salt. Um, OK. Wait a minute. I have a taste Add a Maoxuewang Ok, wait a minute. Hey Lei Lei Please call the waiter. Let him urge the hot dishes Just a few dishes Good waiter How about our hot dish? Why is it so slow? waiter Ask the waiter for more napkins Not enough. Isn't the napkin right there? You still call it that? Just ask the waiter to take it himself I'll do it, babe You still eat that beef kernels Shall I transfer it to you? Uncle and aunt know Squirrel mandarin fish is the signature dish here You eat more Beibei, you eat too Lei Lei, this child is filial and sensible To our Beibei, she also knows cold and heat You see, this takes care of Hahaha, give your daughter to him. We can rest assured. Why don't you take this opportunity today? Let's discuss marriage between the two of us Okay, okay. Mother-in-law, you said I heard that Lei Lei wants his family to support buying a house. Did you encounter some difficulties? No, no. It's just that the kids are in a hurry too suddenly We haven't had time to discuss it yet. Hahaha oops From now on, the two families will be one family If you have any difficulties, tell them and solve them together. Well, I don't think this will buy a house. It doesn't really matter. I have an idea. Well, why don't you say it and listen to it? Well, go ahead. You say haha I want Lei Lei to be our door-to-door son-in-law Give it to our Li family as a son So you don't have to buy a new house Well, but the children of the two of them in the future Also surnamed Li But you know ha Now the mind is open. The two of you shouldn't mind. Hahahaha Uh, two in-laws Our minds are really not as open as you said Hehe, to tell the truth to you two Three generations of our Lao Guan family Think about how big we raise our children As a door-to-door son-in-law Do you two think this is suitable? Hahaha, how about us? There is no way Both are for the children Can only compromise? That's a suggestion. You have to ask the children what they mean. Lei Lei, what do you think? Oh, dear. I always felt like I was the parent of our family I don't want to cause trouble for my parents anymore Since my father-in-law and mother-in-law love me so much Of course I would like to be your door-to-door son-in-law. Hey I said You said you eat vegetables Well, Mom and Dad Why don't we talk about this later? We can get married in two or three years. The child is ignorant and interrupts Isn't this a negotiation? It didn't count, did it? Is that so? Let's both go back and think about marriage And we all want the happiness of our children. Both are for the children What did Xiao Shen say? Now we can only wait for the investigation results. So temporarily suspended How long have you not said? How long? Not the master He was there to save lives. Leaders can't ignore this, right? Anyway, I've tried my best. If you want to punish me, I accept it. Let's take a break without stopping It was supposed to be last night's surgery It has been postponed. Patients can't wait any longer I really thought I was made of iron Why doesn't mom answer so many calls? You don't reply even if you send so many WeChat messages. You don't run to the operating room as soon as you come back from Shanghai, do you? Overload operation is not good for the body You are a great doctor This is clearer than my mother Don't make mom worry You know what? Xiaoling, please save this registration form for file. Ah ok Teacher Xu Sister Xiulan Oops Director Wang Okay, okay, okay, let me introduce you This is Comrade Xu Xiulan, the gold mediator Xu Xiulan hahaha dare not dare How many sisters are there? That's us. The mediators of Xingfuli Community I have difficult questions to ask you. Is it okay? Then let's talk in the office Okay, okay. Please please please Hahahahaha Sister Xiulan You also understand the situation Today, a few of them are here for this Yes, this one. It is the list of difficult households in Xingfuli Community Take a look at a few typical mediations. Give them a good lesson Yes, yes, yes. No problem, you can take me there later. Haha report Well, the second sister is back Oh, got it. We talked about the house that day. Shhh! Meeting now Okay. Shh haha Ah! This Meeting without mom This look is aimed at me again I mean it on behalf of your mother. Uh, is that so? What about this? There has been a qualitative change. Baoer's marriage is no longer negotiable How about you? Take out all the money you keep with your mother I borrowed it from you, your mother and your brother At that time, our family will return a lot to you. Dad? You just said you Your family borrowed it from me? Then I want to know How will you pay it back then? How much time? Is it paid in installments? Or pay me back in full? Hey, Gao Yixiang, you've gone a little too far this time, haven't you? You are a daughter and you still want to be your father's creditor You are so awesome, don't you don't Yuxiang, you are also considerate and considerate of the family. Yesterday, the in-laws proposed it. If there is no room to get married Then you have to be a door-to-door son-in-law for others I have only one son, Guan Yongnian I can't afford to lose this person. Dad ran away, dad is not in good health Let's stop arguing. Is that so? Do you want to pay the money? Then this house is the house in the county seat. decoration Everything is simple I'm done here Bao, are you alright? Yuqiang, look at how sensible your brother is. But one thing about me is that my wife and Even if the in-laws live together Add a sister-in-law How can there be such a thing now? Just what I mean is sister Can you just move out? Sure As long as you get married here Then you move out You are so great Then I make another request. It's you. Look at you. Can I have your name off the deed? I must have suffered a loss about the tuition fee Right now as long as you take your name off Then let's just write it off, okay? Can you just give your brother a wedding gift? Can you not talk about the tuition fee at every turn? I should pay it back, I've almost paid it back. Now let's talk about this house first Take my name out first Okay? Next, take out the names of the parents Is this the process? What are you talking about? What do you take me for? I'm not as thoughtful as you. What are you doing? What about thief prevention? I'll guard against you I'll tell you what. I can move out of this house no problem But cross my name out. That's impossible. Oh dad Do you hear me? Do you hear me? Okay, I've been letting it go since I bought the ring But he never wanted me to feel better Okay dad We're going to have grandchildren. If the surname is Li and not the surname, don't blame me for this. Bao, what nonsense are you talking about? You Praise you for being sensible I'm just too sensible Okay, okay. Whose house do you think is typical? Whose house do we go to first? Ah, like this building 101? He's a nice guy. Warm-hearted but very patriarchal Put your son in your heart and get used to it No job so far Old at home Thank you at home. Thank you. I'll make a call hello Hey, mom called I just had surgery. Oh today Why did the surgery end so early? Where are you now? Ah, I'm going to do mediation work for a while It will be over in a while. What's the matter? Why don't we go out to eat tonight? Ouch ok Then please send me an address. Okay, I'll send you a location. Come pick me up Ok so that's it Haha, my son. Haha, my son is excellent. Don't stop me Don't stop me What are you doing? Dad, listen to me Don't stop my dad You have to be obedient You have grown up Don't stop me, be obedient Don't stop me Don't be stupid, I'll tell you. You can't stop me We have something to talk about I'll discuss it with your sister later. No, I made up my mind today. I just want to get out of this house What are you determined to do? Ah, who? Lao Guan Open the door I'm Xiao Cui Coming, coming. Ouch Director Cui Why are you here? Old Guan, why is this house so noisy? Coincidentally, the gold mediator of Chunyang Street Take classes in the neighborhood committee By the way, I'll give you a lesson. Hi. You are welcome. Director Cui In fact, there is no conflict in our family No mediation required. Go to another home Ah Lao Guan Every family has a difficult scripture to read I don't think it's shameful to have contradictions Just explain the truth Is it that Teacher Xu? Are you communicating with Lao Guan? I also went to another house to see Busy? Ok ok you go you go Don't go Director Sun, young man I think your grievance is the greatest. Chat with aunt Hello aunt Hey Auntie, please be inside. OK I'll tell you in detail. Please sit here, auntie Auntie, are you thirsty? Auntie, look! I was in college. I have already made great sacrifices for my second sister Now it's my turn to get married I'm going to need his help. Hmm He turned his face and didn't recognize anyone Please help me evaluate Who is right and who is wrong about this? The Guan family married a son like you It's such a big deal. He doesn't help Don't help Is that still siblings? Listen to it Expert eyes are sharp Snow is shiny I think it's not just about helping now Marry a wife and have children in the future Life and work He has to help support the elderly aunt I dare not ask him for this. Just promise the house Then I'm all thankful Oh, but that's coming back. He has done all these great things in your life for you What do I need you for? You mess around all day accomplishes nothing Shame or not? Filial piety to the elderly Are you ashamed? If you have something to do, go out and borrow money from others Are you ashamed? Kin Parents Kin Sister The whole family can't let you go lose face Dad pseudo expert Come and p PK Hey Well, our child is still young. That doesn't mean he hasn't done anything in the future Now his sister is just a temporary help. Well, you have to give him a chance. Guan Yingnian Your problem is the most serious. We'll talk about that later. Let me talk about your second sister first Guan Yuqing, me? Yes, call you over sit down Well, I guess. You can't turn your back on people Yes, yes, yes, your career is very good. The salary is also high But you are in this house You can't make a big deal out of it. So strong? Right? You can't have no family in your eyes. Right? That's wrong. Key mom Let me talk about you again. I think it's about teaching kids. It's like planting a tree. You have to trim and cut often To be shady Are you right? Well, let me share my experience with you. I have treated my son with my whole life I am fully committed and dedicated For my son's academic life thoughts and feelings I'm going to catch them all I want to know it all I check everything Let me tell you this My son is very good now Of course. I'm proud to be a mother. Uh, housekeeper mom Is that so? I do adjustment work Always come and go straight, forgive me I'll be blunt, I think your mother irresponsible It's really irresponsible. This aunt Did you just say thunder or my part? I think it makes sense I will also try my best to correct it. But what did my mother do in this house? We as children know very well As a daughter, I don't allow anyone to slander her. And You just said that you treated your son with your whole life Devotion. Devotion. I doubt it. Won't your son suffocate? hum This is your tutor When the elders speak, you can interrupt at will, and I will ignore it. Ok ok So back to my son. My son has been a straight-A student since elementary school. Getting a PhD is still straightforward - A student He went to work. His profession is very domineering The leadership attaches great importance to Facts speak So can I talk now? Yes, you can tell me. I don't think education and position represent accomplishment and quality You are the best. Mind less about our family Pay more attention to your son's psychological condition Is he so stressed? Easily hair loss What do you mean by that? You'd better take care of your own son first. My wife and daughter, when is it your turn to teach a lesson? And my son? Yes, and my son Is it sorry You are not welcome in our house, please Whether you are welcome or not is your problem. Whether I do the work or not is my problem You are not invited Is it but the street invited me over Please come up. Really? Hey son, you are here. Did you see it? This is my son. Hey, are the conditions over? This is your mom Oh, the quality of this family is simply No, no, no, be careful what you say, have you left? Who quality Their family can't be solved in a day or two Sorry to bother you. Do you see it? This is the result of quality-oriented education Go slowly Don't come when you have time. Who is it? Let me tell you something. It's because I don't like his son Today, I specially came to the door to retaliate Dad Did you know this aunt before? I met once at the People's Park blind date conference The good guy is that conference It's up to him for a day Look how he blows his son Recommend his son hum I'll leave it at that. Whose daughter would marry their family? That's bad luck Let's not learn from him. He has a son I have a son Cut dad Dad is not angry anymore? Not angry, not angry Dad always thought you were a good boy Okay, okay, okay. Ok ok no You're welcome, use it slowly. Thank you. You're welcome. Eating at such an expensive place How much will this cost? Oops, we haven't eaten together in a long time I'll accompany you today, order whatever you want. OK, hahaha. You say how harmonious we are Our family is so harmonious The Old Guan Family is too busy good guy You child You child How did that happen? What are you apologizing to them for? You should speak for mom mom They have so many families I'm afraid you'll suffer, aren't I? Yeah, that's right. Still my son Haha, then I ordered it. A little bit Hey, Director Wang? Okay, okay, I'll be right over. What's up? There is an emergency patient Need me to have surgery right away I can't eat this You can order whatever you want. Go back and give me the bill I'll reimburse you. Hurry up hurry up It is important to treat and save people I'm leaving. Hey, eat well. Mom Okay, okay, okay. I'm so proud of my son Go home and cook noodles Sister Lin You this is you I see your clothes are all dirty. Did not notice i I'll take it to dry cleaning for you No, I'll just go back and wash it myself. Do you have time? I think this material is pretty good. If it is washed with water, it will be ruined. No, I I see. Does this dress have to be dry cleaned? Does that need to be signed immediately? Leave this to me. OK, then please. Just owe me a favor Board change complete Dr. Yao's patient's blood pressure has dropped Poker was found in advance Doctor Yang can't stop this mouth Dr. Yang's patient's blood pressure has been dropping I hold the bleed Go find Dr. Xu Hello Director Xu Patient Chen Zhiwu is in critical condition Please come over. I'll be right there. What's the situation with Yang Ming? The patient now has anterior descending coronary bleeding Can't stop at all come Just a guest A torn blood vessel near the root of the limb There's no way to fix it. de-intracranial artery Patient needs bypass Yes Yes Yes doctor Dr. Xu Dr. Xu Empress You operated on my brother How is he now? Out-point small situation But the surgery went well Oh, great, great, thank you so much. Thanks a lot. Go through the formalities first Hey, okay, okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you thank you thank you Dr. Xu OK Thank you. I really didn't expect it. In the end, you became the attending doctor for Zhiwu This has nothing to do with you Every attending physician's patient All patients in our hospital It's my job Is there anyone who asks the same? I understand that except for family members No one wants more than a doctor The patient can recover soon But anyway Thanks anyway. Because Zhiwu is really important to my sister's family You're welcome, this is what I should do. I'm going to work first Jianling? Welcome to the position of Deputy Dean of our hospital. Dean Zhang I am returning an old employee. Haha, yeah. You are the old director of cardiac surgery in our hospital When you went abroad to study Participated in the medical aid program in Xinjiang again Wait for decades Finally got you back I'll leave the heart transplant center in your hands Now. That Gobid goes all out Hahaha, come and sit down and talk. Come sit with the stationmaster I'll help you, oops, oops. Okay, thank you, Aunt Xu. Haha, Lin Jie. Why are you here? I'm the one who delivers soup to the breeze Let me help you. Give it to me give it to me Slow down, haha, okay, okay. Auntie oops I've gone to the kitchen to help heat the soup up It's done, and you got a thermal insulation bucket? Thank you. Thank you. Whose thermal insulation bucket is this? Is it disinfected? This thermal insulation bucket is for breeze. Haha, our clinic is usually very busy. He is often too late to eat I will help him manage Ouch, that's so good. I'm really inviting you. Hey, sit down. You wait here. Am I disturbing you too much? Not at all. You sit down and rest for a while Oh good Please sit down. I'll leave you alone. You see this is not busy Hahaha, the clothes I just got back, right? This dress this dress This is my son's How are you? Yes, this is Breeze's suit. He's too busy to have time. I'll take him to the dry cleaner Just got it back. Hey, if it weren't for you, Sister Lin Do you usually take care of our Qingfeng like this? Ouch aunt How can I be taken care of? It's all little things Just give me a hand Ah, hahahaha. Oops, Lin Jie, you Come, come, come, come, come, sit, sit, sit Ahaha oops hahahahaha Ouch, you and our breeze, then you see Partner at work Is there a tacit understanding in life? You take care of him so much Not really. Not really. Yeah, great. That's great. Hahahaha Oh, right. Do we not have WeChat? Oh, not yet, not yet, not added. plus plus plus plus Hurry up oops How could I not have your WeChat? This is impossible. Come, come, sweep me