ANDREW HUBERMAN: Welcome where we discuss science for everyday life. [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm Andrew Huberman, of neurobiology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today we are We're going to discuss because indeed, there are have worked for many decades what is this thing and what brings us happiness In fact, we could probably as one of the most sought-after or emotions. Whatever you want to is what many people are seeking and in general. And yet most of us can't happiness is or means for us. We can point to we can try and describe our but most people recognize and we certainly recognize the Whether or not that means as the absence of happiness Now one of the key problems in and, indeed, the science is that it does indeed Things like joy, and And indeed, many scientists have argued for about what happiness really is. Now we can come up with definitions of happiness. Operational definitions are or agreed-upon that will define something Much in the same way come up with an operational But of course, milk can be it can be soy milk, So too, something be micro-divided and sliced as we decide. Today we are really going to First, we are going to define and as a state of mind and body. We're going to take a look at of that. Second, we are going to talk for placing ourselves And while for most of as something that only arrives of some goal or some thing that is true. There is also something or synthesized happiness to be at least as powerful and Now I'll just say that I'm not going to tell is sit in a chair and in order to feel happy. Synthesize happiness actually steps that have been defined by so we're going to talk as it relates to what you can readily or more frequently. And then, third, we're of the misconceptions or what of happiness research. And what I mean by have probably heard about for obtaining happiness. And they always to some of the same basic have great social connection, to any overextend on because there are indeed show that the amount of does not necessarily scale We'll talk about those studies later. And while all of very powerful and is what I see as Which is for instance, that for especially in the in graduate school there were times in which in work and pursuing meaning in my vocation from the opportunity as many social connections, or quite as much exercise, or for that matter. So all of the things that we're to access happiness oftentimes contradict and the requirements but in building a us to have the kind of to have things like quality and opportunity to get regular et cetera, et cetera. So, again, while this a complaint with any of the fields of it is important these contradictions that around happiness. In particular, the around the science of happiness. So today, what we are what you will with is a set of tools and a the pursuit of happiness as it relates to the but also the neuroscience. And my goal today is really into a structured can know where you are in around happiness in your And what I won't need to abandon of pursuing money, and simply focus But we will talk an excellent social bond or There's excellent research that even rather shallow is, connections between people in the hallway on not even requiring can be built into close a tremendous amount of feeling provided certain So today, again, it's the science of happiness, underlying what And providing you a you can pursue and as a long-term goal and not of little micro exercises but rather as a way to as a state that you have in terms of your what I would call enable us or open the happiness. Now before we begin I'd like to talk about a very to our pursuit of to our pursuit of everything, and ongoing I've talked many, many and on other podcasts, about the critical regular bright light, ideally within the first hour of waking. Or if the sun isn't out when to turn on a lot of and then get for anywhere from depending on how cloudy it is Absolutely outsized during the day and Now there's another of getting great sleep and focus throughout the day. And that's to avoid exposure to your eyes between to 4:00 AM. Now leaving shift workers aside, devoted to shift work, most and awake during the day. And you would be wise to to bright artificial light PM and 4:00 AM. If you're going to use dim them down as far as you can. Now there are several studies that one of the major bright light in your eyes PM and 4:00 AM is that on the so-called dopaminergic or and body, which can That is lead to ongoing So that's a reason or avoid bright lights However, I and many others and screens sometimes, even PM and midnight or even depending on what's going That may include you as well. Now it turns out that to offset some, not all, but of viewing artificial lights PM and 4:00 AM. And one of the most is to simply adjust of your artificial and in the evening. So one of the issues nowadays is that people are simply not in their eyes from sunlight during the daytime, far too much bright largely from artificial sources, and at night. Not just from 10 PM in the evening hours from 6 to So a very simple yet that supported by peer-reviewed is to try and make your environment during the Now, if you can achieve that terrific. If you can get outside a lot But many people simply cannot. But most people do have some I realize some don't And as a consequence, are using rather dim artificial and then very bright indoors in the evening, and And if you think about want to do the exact reverse. So it's been shown increase the amount of that you were exposed to this is not an excuse to not get but in addition to that, to make very bright, bright, throughout the day. And then much dimmer from the Or if you can't do as you get home from about And then dim them way, PM and 4:00 AM or off entirely. That's going to be for your sleep-wake cetera than what is to have a few windows environment during the day and dim at a time when they light energy. And then in the evening, because it's dark to turn the lights You actually want Now there's an even which is to get some bright right around the time of sunset. It doesn't have to it could be in the late But it's been shown now and I'll provide a of those studies, some bright light in your in the late afternoon And, of course, the timing will and where you are But facing the you don't actually have below the horizon, around that time for anywhere less, even two to adjust the in your retina that communicate and make it such that in artificial lights, they of a detrimental effect and for impairing your sleep. So the idea is as much bright but also from artificial you wake up in the Maybe around 6:00 or 7:00. Maybe in the summer And then really try and in your eyes as you can in the And ideally, you would also get around the time of sunset Go outside, take Don't try and do this through a It will not work. You have to get outside. If you're under an try and get some direct sunlight And that will adjust of your retina such that or artificial lights exposed to in the evening and won't have as much of That said, if you in the middle of the night, Many people have asked a nightlight or a flashlight of a negative effect. This is very straightforward. If you think about it, if you you can see into If you've ever been walked with a flashlight, that you wouldn't But if you were to shine it would be far brighter. So yes, of course, if you get and you can use your phone the environment that you're go to where you need to that's going to be far better or, of course, shining So the idea is bright, and throughout the day. And as dim and dark And that afternoon light what I call a Netflix will allow you to adjust and give you a little bit of allowing some without the detrimental effects. Now I realize today's it's not about And yet, as we'll in just a moment, if you're and if you are using or at the wrong times of that is going to make it of practices that to have their full impact. So the backdrop, where I would of your chemicals is powerfully controlled by not but the timing of light In particular, your exposure is something that you have You don't have absolute control, over. And it's been proven that are completely cost-free. They require just a but no purchase a can allow you to greatly and your hormones in the better sleep, and happiness. Before we begin, I'd that this podcast is separate roles at Stanford. It is, however, part to bring zero cost to consumer and science-related tools In keeping with to thank the sponsors Our first sponsor is Thesis. Thesis makes custom nootropics. And as I've said many times I am not a fan of because it means smart drugs. And frankly, there are no in the brain or body for Thesis understands developed custom nootropics to bring your brain and ideal for what you They use the highest things like many ingredients about before on this podcast I've been using Thesis and I can confidently say been a game changer. For me, I like their I used that before And I like their And I often used In particular, workouts To get your own personalized go online to Take their 3-minute will send you four to try in your first month. Again that's And use the code to get 10% off your first box. Today's episode is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data to help me better and help you meet I've long been a believer in for the simple reason that your immediate and can only be analyzed with One of the problems with a tests out there, however, back about lipids and and levels of metabolic but you don't know what to InsideTracker has a very you can monitor your levels. And you can click on any specific hormone, and it will tell you the exercise, the nutrition tools, tools that you can those numbers into for your immediate and If you'd like to you can visit to get 20% off any of Again that's to get 20% off. Today's episode is also Helix makes that are of the absolute I started sleeping on a Helix and it's been the best One of the things that makes is that they match the to your unique sleep needs. So, for instance, if you you can take a brief quiz. It's only takes about And you'll answer you tend to run hot or Or whether or not you sleep or your stomach, or Regardless, they will match you ideal for your sleep needs. For me that was the Which, for me, was not and was ideal for You take the quiz, what mattress is ideal So if you're interested in go to helixsleep.com/huberman, and they'll match you to And you'll get up to $200 off free pillows. They have a 10-year warranty. And you get to try for 100 nights risk-free. Again, if you're to helixsleep.com/huberman for pillows. Let's talk about happiness. This thing that everybody seems can agree on what exactly Now I want to start by quoting Lab podcast. And that is a colleague of mine Dr. Karl Deisseroth, who's both That is, he's a psychiatrist both running a laboratory human patients, of course. And I once was at I heard Karl say something don't know what In fact, most of the really know how we feel. And while that to report several different that the brain et cetera, one of the things and I know he was emphasizing this for me, was the Things like the word or pleasure, or delight, very precise when it comes to states. So, for instance, if I tell I know what that means for but you don't really it means the same thing as what If I say I'm extremely I have a grin on my face that I Well, then, you might get a am than pretty happy. But it's still hard to calibrate or happiness, and the and for everybody else. And it's important for because at this point we don't really like body temperature or variability or even a way in the brain and body better than a crude correlate of what happiness is. So that's really important to throughout this episode. It doesn't mean that we cannot conversation about happiness of happiness. But it's very important to an ideal and maybe even of describing our emotions and Now equally important that while we do have that is, the chemicals neurons, nerve cells to communicate, things for instance. And we have what are These are chemicals by neurons that impact the release of other neurons. Things like serotonin, and and epinephrine. Neuromodulators and are always present in a That is, they are present and at different levels. So we need to completely that any one neurotransmitter is solely responsible or for a lack of state of That said, it is true tend to have lower baseline dopamine, their or we should say their of happiness, tend to that have greatly elevated Now, this can be at the extremes in conditions like or other conditions where in their brain is Mind you, we also see this that are in a withdrawal state or they don't have access to the release of dopamine. Think the cocaine addict Or the methamphetamine can't or is trying to avoid Or the Parkinson's patient neurons because Those individuals do tend They tend to have lower affect. They are less happy. At least, that's how they report And that's what we observe when in terms of the amount of they seem to have. At the opposite extreme. And while still focusing of neurotransmitter and an individual who is in will tend to have very And those people will and they won't require sleep. And at least to them, every that they want to pursue. We did an entire episode about Bipolar disorder. So if you'd like to learn check out that episode. That and all other of course, you can find it But the point here is are very high levels of with certain states of, or the absence of happiness. We could even call it Or extreme happiness Sometimes even as is the case with or sometimes called bipolar Now, of course, there's a range And most people, fortunately And it is indeed a continuum. And I think it's safe to probably do correlate But there is no nor chemical signature, that is, dopamine, to one part acetylcholine that we can Indeed there's now as to whether or not, lower levels of the cause of depression with depression or maybe with depression, at all. This became especially because, in the last year, hypothesis of depression has And indeed, it does seem to be that are depressed, can sometimes be normal. However, and this is that does not mean that that increase levels of does not sometimes ameliorate some And I should mention that many reuptake inhibitors. So-called SSRIs such et cetera, are still for conditions like OCD But what I'm trying to do is First of all, that language of internal state. Especially when trying to internal state. And that is especially true And that there is signature of happiness. There's no one neural of neuromodulators is the cocktail for happiness. But, and it's a very levels of dopamine to be chronically below their typical will, yes, tend to and have lower mood and less per week, per month, Conversely, when an in dopamine and in particular dopamine levels catecholamines, which include So the catecholamines are and norepinephrine. They're all very They all lead to states of and so on. When those chemicals are people do tend to have elevated and in particular about what they and what the world So we need to acknowledge and neurochemistry as we about the psychology And, in particular, about that have been done in on the psychology of happiness and what does not. There have been some excellent And these come in One form of these come into a laboratory. They participate in an of a day or months. And then, data are and the papers are submitted, The other form is so-called Where individuals come and they are studied over Ranging from months to years And then, the variables of and other factors can be And typically, there there's data published study, or sometimes at the end of the Let's talk about one of the longest-running This is a study that was in 1938 at Harvard University. The so-called Harvard Some of you probably It involved Harvard and other individuals who were as well. It's a study that initially of hundred subjects. But because some have been able to be contacted and or for whatever reason, in the study, they're very And yet there's tremendous It's such an impressive study, that laboratories to initiate and continue is one of the few studies, has allowed us to understand over a very long period of time. Like any study, It didn't include a or matching by by income and background. And back then, there was about trauma and as well as positive Nonetheless, there's a lot of And there are some some of which you may have heard surprising those So one of the key is people in the who still have intact memory, are able to think their previous year or week but years ago and compare at one age versus another age. A number of things have So I just want to discuss then we'll get into of the nitty-gritty of the data. First of all, it's been that the total amount of or has, and again, this or it could be money does not seem to directly relate Now a lot of people take oh, money doesn't matter. Other people hear that point yeah, right, easy to say We'll talk about the in just a few minutes. But I do want to Because I agree that while does not predict happiness that is not the having very few resources will I don't think anyone But it also tends to overlook is something that I certainly in my life and something when I was a student is the following. People will say money And we'll talk about the buy And indeed, that's true. If you look at this look at other on a more short-term basis. Once people get past a relative to their cost of does not scale with that income. That is, for every that they earn, being that much happier Now that said, I venture the cannot buy happiness, it And in particular, in the form of the for goods and services, You're not going to tell doesn't involve some on your life, less And it certainly is can hire help to clean. You can hire nannies You can hire help to assist nurses if you're having trouble allow you to sleep while in the middle of the night. Often give excellent care. One hopes excellent care. That that won't offset associated with lack of sleep. So there are a million one could give of this, but during graduate school. In fact, I experience both I made very little money I had essentially no savings and I made very little money. The amount doesn't but I could just barely I actually opted to live in the And by doing that, to spend on other things Now I did not have a and so I was able to do that. Something that not But I made very little I was in laboratory and that's where I wanted to be. And so my level of pretty low because all my time and energy that I knew would eventually When I moved from being a for instance. A postdoc is generally a It's sort of like where you're no but you continue to do research. In fact, entire new and prior to getting My income went up slightly, But because of where I moved my cost of living went way, stressed. So it wasn't my was my absolute income The other thing that when considering income versus also this notion of peer group. And we're going to talk and connections later. But one thing that I moved from being a was I was a graduate student in if I chose to participate of the social gatherings because People tended to aggregate on Saturday. Most people wouldn't even the graduate students It was just a People sometimes play or just hang out There was a volleyball Sometimes people would go which of course, costs but it was relatively And social connections and were all generated around activities. When I transitioned to being but cost of living went up. But in addition to tended to want to engage in that people in that larger So peer group has a tremendously whether or not we gauge that we have as bringing And that really speaks to of social interactions of social interactions, Now, if any of that was unclear, it's not just about being It's also about the kinds of social interactions correct for you at and in the place where Because if you can meet all and paying your power but you are socially group, or those around you are engaging in activities that literally, because or that you don't have the then that can actually of what we call happiness. Why am I parsing Well, I'm parsing and finally have heard the outcome of or the more short-term are from Harvard. We'll talk about the from Dan Gilbert's laboratory focused on issues like these. And I certainly don't from those results. They're very powerful that really point over that people's happiness does not In fact, it tends not and yet I think think actually it for me to say that the amount is not important. Because if the amount of or are making does your basic needs of shelter, And/or doesn't the kind of social interactions or, I would say, the kind of neurotransmitter that lead us to feel that and we're having quality that's very stressful. And this brings me back to which is, indeed, money but it certainly And one of the ways is by allowing options of social interactions. Options of different that one can engage in to access and so on and so on. So we need to be a little bit about this statement that and that the data support doesn't determine happiness. I think there is a truth another side to that, I think and that certainly and that I think many of experienced as well. One other major finding of study on happiness, as well on happiness, is heard, perhaps that no says they wish they had the total amount of time does not seem to And yet I also want to earmark to parse a bit more carefully. Because work, last and certainly for me, that people earn an income. And as we just talked income is often a way to or provide access to things like the opportunity for more So we have to be careful with statements that have become determine happiness and that isn't going to It certainly is the case from working more and to things that bring for social connection in other areas of your care for your children, recreation, other things I think it's a little bit naive somehow counter to happiness. Which, of course, it isn't. And it especially isn't if we with another important feature is this notion of meaning. Now in the we will do an episode of and what constitutes meaning or otherwise. But much of the psychology of today, focuses on this as a critical one in terms and what doesn't make us happy, And I can certainly that learning and teaching, and brings me tremendous feeling Some people consider a way to gain a paycheck, find that they would do the whether or not they were paid. In fact, many people will do of work for zero money. So this idea that or that work is not as that also needs to be of different perspectives. And again, by no to undermine the data of the longitudinal and but I think we do have to be of results like these replete with conversations determine happiness. It's going to be social It's going to be that you are able to have open I think is an essential feature Physical health. In particular, one's and to be able to access that one needs to is a strong correlate of And, of course, there are The things that feed back of well-being. And I've talked and we'll just put these You can think of this that you and everyone really to access, if not optimize, on raise the tide or the buoyancy of meaning your brain and body. And that would be getting 80% of the nights of your life. And ideally, the remaining sleep or as much of it Quality nutrition. Quality social interactions. And we will define that In fact, we will define that in this episode and at creating quality even very brief So we have sleep, we have social interactions. We have purposeful it's paid work or non-paid work. And, of course, there and maybe relationships to And there are a All of those are known to of well-being, that to access more meaning But for most fair to say that And earning a living by working we spend most of our time. So I think we need to around those activities. And it's something we will later in terms of trying to in which there are big or extensive family are indeed compatible or frequent states of happiness Rather than simply say or the amount of time at That's not what people are In fact, I don't know how How could I? Human beings are pretty how they feel in the present. If not describing it, they if they have any sense That is interception. And you could have some idea We're pretty good about at least in broad very good at projecting how And in fact, that's going to come up Nonetheless, what we do know on are that certain aspects tend to change Now lifespan is need to consider from because humans are indeed And if we look at across the lifespan dated maybe 20 years ago, it is in that literature as a Where people in their 20s but as time goes on and they So typically, getting children in their mid to late Having more work happiness tends to be at least in those And then happiness tended approach their 50s and 60s. And they tended to retire, were shed from able to enjoy the small things that, in general, I people's health is not as as it is when they're 20. There are exceptions Of course, you can adjust the decline. But in general, feel more physically than they do in their That u-shaped function holds true today, have been some major shifts and when people undergo For instance, many people are Many people are opting In fact, if you look at the data children or not and how everyone will tell you that source of joy, at least most and are a tremendous It's obvious. Kids are delightful, and is a wonderful experience. If you look at the among people that elected to not had, most people report their overall as lower than that of people Now there are a lot of ways And by no means am I encouraging That's a issue that you have of course. But we could imagine, that people who opt have more income to devote on themselves or their partner We don't know if that's We could perhaps who opt not to have children on a regular basis or have or the other sorts of states of mood and well-being. Again we do not know reasons are for this finding. But it does seem that reporting that their kids are and quote-unquote that people who opt not to have or report being at least than those that opt And, of course, I that I'm not trying to whether or not people I happen to find children And I'm always happy when provided they are taking or doing their very best to take So that's my stance. But of course, to your own stance on this. There are also the that people like to have the population of the Earth will based on current birth Indeed many areas of the world, It is actually as a perhaps point been studied from the somewhat of whether or not child diapers as they were some years ago and for the elderly are being sold If you think about it is one or not people are living longer Definitely in discussion probably for another I'd like to take a quick one of our sponsors Athletic Greens, a vitamin-mineral that covers all of your I've been taking Athletic so I'm delighted that they're The reason I started and the reason I still take twice a day, is that it that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by communicate with the brain, the all the biological to strongly impact our And those probiotics are optimal and vital In addition, Athletic of adaptogens, that make sure that all of my are met. And it tastes great. If you'd like to you can go to and they'll give you five really easy to mix up you're on the road, in the And they'll give you a year Again that's to get the five free travel of vitamin D3K2. So this u-shaped function earlier in life feeling far less happy returning to them, that is, in their later years, is should be repeated And repeated in a way that might be shifted to the right. That is, I am certainly tending to get married later. Many are opting to So, for instance, the that u-shaped curve at the bottom of that opt not to have children. Because the argument was made in that the reason why when people are in is because they're devoting more and devoting more time to work. I would hope people but not everybody really And many people, even if and they find find it stressful, can run counter to happiness. Nowadays, you could imagine are opting perhaps to work or both, where they from their work a bump at the bottom of that simply not take on these That would be an I think, of whether or not the is really what's correlating Now one very consistent stood the test of time, and It's a little bit of a but I think it points to will return to that people tend lower levels of happiness, on their birthday. And the argument for why That typically, we not comparing ourselves to We might do that when we're in elementary We're sort of age match, But an evaluation of ourselves is not typically something Whereas on our birthday, of where we are in the arc of And many people report feeling because they use that as into the things that they The things that, they still haven't accomplished. And so that's interesting points to is two things. One the extent to which much are relative, in particular, So there's that And the fact that are not very good at in the longer arc of time. We're pretty good we are in the arc of a or the arc of a month, or even are not very good at we are in our life arc. And, of course, most how long we will do have some general sense. I mean, very few people Many people live to be 70 or 80. And again, life span as we know from year to year. But, in general, people report And I should say these aged 25 or later, at I was able to access. I don't think that a sit around comparing themselves and how well they're You can imagine some people But it's really by the start evaluating in terms of life progression It's been argued that that's report lower affect, on their birthday. Something that's a little And, of course, there anti-correlated with happiness. I'd be remiss if I didn't That's longitudinal study, has reported, for are chronic smokers of consumers of alcohol, in That is, people who or what sometimes is called is strongly anti-correlated And I should also mention and in particular, of people who are chronic of people who are chronic will report lower Especially if they chronic smokers or regular So we've done episodes on and that touched on And we've done an and the effects of Again, you can find This study from the really has strong the fact that avoiding There are positive health that are discussed in But being a-- but smoking is counterproductive for happiness and certainly I think there's zero question cancers of different kinds. And that alcohol consumption. And in particular, alcohol drinks per week. Two drinks being the a glass of wine or is detrimental for And, of course, there that you could imagine would For instance, a major trauma. Physical or emotional trauma. That could include the loss a death of a close one. Being the victim of a violent And yet it's been argued, in you look at people's levels that if you wait sometimes is even as after a trauma, that of happiness are not were prior to the trauma. Now I very much want to and asterisks that that we really need Because there are other data that major life disrupt one sense of And I think as long as we're we should point to a useful And the definition is one that was supplied by a Lab podcast, Dr. Paul Conti, written a book called Trauma. I personally think it's the for alleviating trauma. It's incredibly thorough, easy And here again, but Dr. Conti describes trauma changes the way that our in a way that makes more challenging. Again, an event, either or both, that fundamentally that our brain and/or and other organs function from enjoying daily activities. And that could even be Traumas can create can create obsessive thought, Any number of different things. Again check out that if you'd like to learn and how it manifests. But the idea that's by a number of researchers that three months after aren't reported that they than before the trauma, So I went into this One of the basis of that is a-- what I consider a now and frankly excellent given by Professor Dan Gilbert You can find this on YouTube. I say a classic one because It's received millions of views. And one of the points that is grounded in by his laboratory and other he poses a question. He says you know, Would you rather be someone and he shows a picture I think it was several in the lottery, or was use of their legs? And then goes on to after people have this major monetary windfall is that their self-reported are the same. Which I think is I heard this, and I immediately that I've had where I School of Medicine on And it's actually a course ago when I was a so well over a decade ago. And we had-- excuse me. We had an individual This was an older gentleman. So older meaning he And he had become paraplegic from a cycling accident. And he was and is it is to become a because he had that experience, a lot of his time doing have become paraplegic at different ages. And what he described to me for people that are in terms of their mental health and their management scales with how early and how long they had So it's not straightforward. When I heard this result that winning the lottery basically don't impact to any different degree when I was pretty surprised of hearing this So I thought, wow, Indeed, there are people and manage that It doesn't seem to disrupt et cetera, but for can be severely disrupting and so on and so forth. I went back and And in fact, a actually a podcast that Gilbert some years later. So this would be I think in 2019-- there in which it was recorded And indeed, he corrects What he says is that he That the difference in of happiness for those that for versus those who've won the would expect. I think most people would expect would make people That's the expectation, And that people would at least for some would be far happier prior to winning the lottery. And especially given the And again, the fact that but that money does to buffer stress responsible with didn't blow it or spend That they could start that they couldn't afford, not but also the that would free up time that from travel that they couldn't if that was something that they And so on and so forth. So the result quote of the lottery and have the same levels of At least according to the Now what he did not point to is true, but he did point to And the fact that people who are are reporting than they were prior And certainly that their are lower than those that hundreds of millions of is the more intuitive result. And so I think it's important because it's something in the communication the first time around. And indeed, Dan Gilbert and was quite good about trying I myself, as a podcaster on the internet, know that narratives, especially of things we always attempt to can, but not everyone that necessarily hear the discussion So my hope is that Dr. Gilbert this now not as an but rather as an attempt to try and correct the So to be very clear about what And here, I'm going to with other studies that explored So major trauma, for instance. Not necessarily becoming of a different sort, When you look at the whole my read is that when people win through inheritance, some that is sudden and that wasn't to gain that wealth, right. Buying a lottery ticket Inheritance is something get by virtue of who you are, Well, that led to increases compared to prior to the but it wasn't as might imagine if the notion of well, more money And while it is true that people or who undergo psychological of any various kind are remarkably They can still manage to and engage in There is a visible decrease and well-being, the psychological renders their nervous system impacts other major areas of And that's certainly true So the point is that this idea that whether or or become paraplegic or your levels of to be the same three I don't think that's accurate. And in fact, Dr. Dan that that's not accurate And I think it's to frame because that's Or that that idea that increased earnings combined with the idea that but then as more demands arise and then we become happy again. And that idea is is not necessarily true. Frankly, I knew a lot in their early 20s that then become happier later as Sometimes distance, sometimes distance from makes us more happy, It's highly individual. So I think those general themes while they have merit and in some of the more and short-term studies, there there are now additional to revise those understandings. Now there is an should say the important credit Dan Gilbert and others and that we owe them a for is that we do over our levels of happiness And many of the at that level of control. That is, the things that we can don't come from external things. They don't come necessarily goods, but rather that we can do that can allow happiness. And I think this is of modern psychology is that-- Dan Gilbert and others, the work at Yale and elsewhere. There are excellent labs working and all over the world, frankly. One of the great gifts in the form of data are things that we can all to allow ourselves to Now, this notion of or synthetic happiness can sometimes ruffle Because people immediately that, oh, you're me to be grateful for what gaze or just to But that's really not is about at all. Synthetic happiness with some really important that our emotional that the reward systems of And they point to that we're going to now discuss. Things like the hedonic Or the dopamine of rewards versus receiving into that. Our anticipation of oftentimes leads to in the sorts of support a state of then the actual that we're trying to obtain. And this goes back discussed a few times in particular with my colleague Dr. Anna Lembke, who wrote the If you're interested in in particular, that's and extremely informative read. And if you're interested generally, not just in but in everyday life and The Molecule of More is an And as I mentioned this episode on dopamine The notion of is not simply about or thinking about happiness To some extent, it is, of other important themes. But it is grounded in the neurobiology And I'll talk about some of that But I want to take and talk about what and what some of for allowing us to of so-called And I want to point that synthetic happiness, while false, it's anything but. It actually turns out to be the more potent that we can all access. And this is where themes over our own become not only valid So, for instance, Dr. have explored how opportunity can and can't lead to And the results of those studies very surprising. Until you understand the I think you will immediately that you can start to genuine happiness, certain choices in and maybe even by Now I'd like to focus at understanding what increases And I'd like to frame this major themes. The first theme is Natural happiness is the sort are familiar with. So the kind of to have if we, for Hopefully, a degree in a topic to us but a degree nonetheless. Or we find a mate. Hopefully, a mate that we Or, for instance, making a work that we enjoy All of those are that, from a very early we are taught exist. For instance, even we are told that our and that we are going and those presents focused on knowledge of So if you're a little or you're a little kid you can sort of expect that some level of joy or happiness. And while that's a that general notion is, of course, one that into young adulthood, And we quite understandably this feeling of joy or happiness or the acquisition of by gift, by inheritance, So that's natural happiness. And yet, as I mentioned there's also this notion And some of the more interesting in the fields of psychology point to this idea of as at least as powerful as natural happiness. Again, at least as powerful And of course, one has to take a happiness is in order to accept happiness for ourselves, that the whole notion is merely a passive do is sit back and imagine being For better or for worse, and our neurochemistry In fact, synthetic been understood as have to put some effort But, and this is an synthetic happiness that certain situational be met. A good example of this is some or I should say Dr. done some interesting work on happiness within our mind and And she's been involved in a But one of the ones that I is one in which they explored and other aspects of So you bring subjects play them different There are, in fact, that can create different happiness, anticipation. In fact, there are that can reliably induce and anxiety base type. So, for instance, If you recall, for those there's this ongoing the shark might be present in That essentially goes [HUMMING] Now for the musicians has basis in things that are understood and the musical side. And from the known to create a neural Yeah, a neural state and not necessarily And indeed, there are that involve up tones. Think some of the music in cartoons of various sorts. There's a long history of this. Indeed there's a of psychological and now even literature on the certain patterns a state of joy and joyful A lot of those patterns into so-called happy and things of that sort. In any case, Dr. Mandich and in particular, but other or cannot induce And the basic takeaway is that while having a musical tone, or visual feature is necessary for a it is not alone sufficient. What is required is that be placed into an contains music or visual items and visual items that of joy or happiness or but that they also are given or instruction manual as inside of that environment. This is important says is that our ability to is dependent on our environment from us. That also makes sense as to why of deprivation. So it could be or financial deprivation. Or even for people that are There are a certain number of people, who report feeling where the sky is overcast. Especially if it's been The so-called seasonal Those individuals, receive tremendous of elevating their mood if they And if they can't get sunlight, that we talked about earlier. But in any case, of people that are profoundly by the lack of positive in their environment. But for most people, I would call a with our environment. Our environment has But the research need to make some sort of Now effort toward being So let's better In the case of Dr. this took the form of inventories, right. That can be focusing on things things that they This is somewhat of a but includes some that are more focused bring you meaning and actually that bring you meaning. So if you're trying to improve your levels this research essentially be smart to try and adjust adjust your work environment Maybe that means a plant. For me, in my laboratory, that was really critical and in my own laboratory when love aquaria. So I had multiple fish tanks. In fact, people in my laboratory Why do we have to have all these I like freshwater tanks, for reasons that for this discussion. But freshwater tanks with discus are just beautiful. They make me happy. I just enjoy them. Music is a complicated because it's a shared space. So headphones are the But having either silence And I happen to like or listening to I do also use the 40 Or I particularly like listening or listening to whale while I work because it doesn't can follow. I don't speak whale, But it sort of fills the space And I've put substantial into making my laboratory spaces, my workspaces, Now I had no from Dr. Mandich and others But what I found was I was challenged in maintaining while working in a laboratory, enjoy the work, I love doing and I loved being in lab, but in as a graduate student were no windows so I wasn't The windows that we wasn't getting a lot of fresh So I've personally to create an environment that I find aesthetically or another. And I realize people of control over their Certainly, the can be controlled nowadays if you're allowed to use those. So, for instance, using music that you find very with a concerted to create states of happiness meaningful to you or at least is We'll talk a little But these happiness turn out to be interesting and so-called synthetic happiness. And we'll also talk that one can create elevated And I realize the word draws up connotations or contrived happiness. I wish instead of calling They had called it happiness or something of wouldn't sound as false. Because it's simply not false. It leads to the know, identical neurochemical of happiness as And might even be than natural happiness. It certainly, is more But the key point and self-directed work at and they interact So if you're somebody who happiness through that we talk about today, don't It could very well be that the social environment or or auditory environment, conducive to And for that reason, of Gillian Mandich and in the field is tremendously from this pressure to from within despite I think many of us have heard of people like Viktor were stripped of managed to maintain some or at least some that allowed them to still Those are highly unique And they speak to the for synthesizing happiness a sense that there might into that future. In their cases, incredibly But I think for most everybody, has a powerful And some people I know people that are perfectly No pictures on the walls. Other people from having photos or plants You really have to determine and do your best those things into or rather, place yourself is conducive to you In fact, the between our environment to generate certain is well established but for things like gratitude. So, for instance, there's a in 2004 that was And we've had an episode The basic takeaway is that it turns out is a more powerful of neurochemicals and activation with so-called and feelings of well-being, But also observing stories in or other narratives of is also a very powerful Also, giving gratitude as powerful as receiving that's what the research powerful exchanges of gratitude What the study that gratitude as a state does not exist in a vacuum. It's not independent So, for instance, all the things you're has some positive impact, or receiving gratitude is far more potent, right. Bigger increases in of well-being and indeed of brain areas associated when there's a reciprocity. When the person receiving about the person and understands that the for instance. So there's an It's not just about receiving from somebody that you And likewise, for the the feelings of when the person it is money, food, assistance Could be physical When the giver has knowledge genuinely needed the thing So the important finding within is that happiness doesn't It's partially our to synthesize happiness. You know, I was told that many is in your head. Well, yes, indeed, but it's also dependent with your environment. Physical environment and Likewise, gratitude is something right through gratitude or we can give both of evoking neurochemical changes and happiness and well-being. But it, too, doesn't There's a much greater when we have knowledge about something or that something is going to benefit So I'm highlighting think that when we hear there's a kind of automatic that tends to occur. And in fact, if you were to online or papers that exist and synthetic happiness, you would come away that synthetic happiness that we're supposed to or perhaps do very But while that is true, And I think that's Much in the same way to be made that while money money can buffer stress opportunities that can for more happiness. So I think we are starting to which is that nothing related And in fact, that leads of one of the major in the realm of what sorts can, in fact, lead to happiness. And this is a paper that Even though that might it forms the basis for a that followed. It's a very This is work from Elizabeth and was published in Which, again, is one of the sort Science, Cell, I always say championships, and Stanley very, very stringent in they let in. Very few, that is. And the title of this what the paper is about. The title of the paper on others promotes happiness&quot;. And I know a number of you and think, oh boy, here we go. He's going to tell us that is going to make us happier And I promise you, that is not But nonetheless, this is and it's one that I ought to pay attention to. Because what the is the fact that income, meets a certain indeed has been shown to on overall happiness. OK? So quoting from the paper quote &quot;income has a reliable effect on happiness Within nations just at this in not just but a number of other &quot;Particularly once OK, so if that's the of money and having money Certainly, there are people are very happy. Certainly, there are people who are very happy. And of course, the There are plenty of people who are unhappy, are people who have a lot of A point that whenever leads those with less money because the assumption is more And in fact, it doesn't. And later, we'll get back to acquired their money has or not that money increases Let's kind of earmark In the meantime, let's about the findings This paper is it did is it explored something Prosocial spending where people are taking of their income, and they Often for causes or for are important to see or change in the world. That could be a hungry to food or medical care. It could be for It could be for animal wellness. It could be for any number It could even be so that they can buy themselves and not having any understanding going to do with the money. Again, one of the central is that while giving is also great in terms of And one of the more is when we give, either or in the form of that the person from that in some increases the an increase in happiness for the Again, that's a note but not an insignificant one So what the study found was was associated greater happiness. This was a very statistically And they found that the spending were independent Independent and I'll explain what of you that might be confused a moment. Whereas, quote, &quot;personal unrelated to happiness&quot;. So what this study was if people are allotted to give away, and one and this is could imagine that for some might represent a of their yearly And for another individual it of their income. But when you adjust for is that people who benefited tremendously in in happiness. In fact, quote, &quot;employees who to prosocial spending, more money, experience greater the bonus, and the manner in a more important predictor than the size of This was an actual with real income, real money. I'm going to read to make sure it hits this to be really impactful. &quot;Employees who devoted a to prosocial spending, that is experienced greater happiness And the manner in that bonus was a more important than the size of So the actual bonus, the led to greater increases in And the act of giving led to greater than receiving the bonus. So it's a twofer, So the takeaway from this I think is pretty obvious that And again, when I say to this means whatever that we can afford to give away, the percentage of our effort. I mean this is about money, We can help others, right? You can serve in food kitchens, you can pick up trash, you You can assist a or you can assist a neighbor able to retrieve their The point is that certainly in the form of money, and time, is immensely our own happiness. That is for the our levels of happiness. But the degree of increase is proportional in to which the person receiving and registers that help. Excellent research that another potent happiness, that is to create in ourselves, is to leverage Or rather, I should say to of our minds to wander. There's an excellent paper in the Journal Science. This is now a classic paper. I talked a little bit about it but for those of you didn't hear that episode, I on a few aspects of the paper. And in particular, a few aspects about previously. And the title of is a very of telling you what it's about. And that is, &quot;A wandering by Killingsworth and Gilbert. This paper was published and we will provide This is frankly, a This paper involved or I should say, And what they were to contact these were going about living and ask them both and what they were feeling. Some additional questions but they were able to people were watching television on a home computer or resting or in their natural environment. So this is outside And they were able to those people were happy or had some other when they were engaging in any And they assessed whether or focused on or focused away were engaging in. And the takeaways from but for sake of today's I think is especially is that regardless people were engaging in or not, the tendency for their predicted lower than if they tended to be they were engaged in. Now that itself I mean, what that says was engaged in activity or doing homework or reading enjoying, if they were focused they tended to report as happier elsewhere. Now this also points to the drift to unpleasant thoughts But they also addressed Point I'd like to &quot;although people's likely to wander than to unpleasant topics&quot; is pretty significant. People's minds tended to about 43% of the time as about 27% of the time. Or to neutral topics and the &quot;People were no about pleasant topics than Think about that. &quot;People were no thinking about pleasant things In fact, the mere focus was more powerful even if they didn't enjoy So they go on here to say, quote known to cause mind see strongly suggested that the cause, the the consequence of unhappiness.&quot; So there are a lot of are worth going into. But the major takeaway, or the be most concerned with, focused on what we to be far less happy focused on what we are doing. Even if what we are that we don't deem And certainly, if we that we consider very pleasant well then our levels of That's sort of obvious. But what this really speaks of building our ability to And to stay present Now this whole notion is one that itself is a And in the episode on meditation whether or not it's present to our is our inter receptive state. Our feelings of our heart our gut feels or our state of or whether or not on being present to things in Both our versions unquote &quot;present&quot; But in the one case, in the other we're and of course, most some combination of the two. But what this study that any practice that can to remain present in the could even be a be texting for that matter, for that matter, right? We're not placing judgment In fact, what we're is the enormous happiness of being present to what of what we are doing. And a practice that's known to our ability to focus a short meditation practice. In fact, work from Wendy again, Wendy's been a Her laboratory has a very brief meditation and this would be the &quot;classic&quot; type of closed, focusing Even a very brief meditation or so done consistently, But I have to imagine that there are still benefits. That sort of enhance one's ability to focus. In her studies, that sort of brief meditation mood and sleep and of cognitive performance. And work from my laboratory, Spiegel at Stanford, has shown that even briefer minutes per day can have fairly on a number of different Those very brief because they really are I should say, When you do that sort of and forcing yourself on your breath and that is directing your Or if you choose, you focus your perception or sound, for that matter. When one does that, the circuits dramatically improve. That is they rewire and to achieve focus. Many of us have heard about think about meditation as Mindfulness in quotes, because But I prefer to view that I just described based training, which is Notions around consciousness are very hard to define, but a 5 minute a day or ideally, meditation can greatly And based on the &quot;A wandering mind is an unhappy that the ability to and again on what we're regardless of what have a very dramatic, in fact, increase on our levels So what else does we can do to increase our Well, it's very clear based from Harvard, as well project and the work of and elsewhere, that is extremely powerful to increase our What is quality Quality social connection of different bins. This can be romantic connection, this can even be daily superficial That's surprising because I think a lot of people and they think But it's very clear that oftentimes our that we are closest to are If you think about it, if you've or a friendship for a or maybe even a sibling relationship, much of is fairly superficial In fact, it's often a to day things between two of people that that people are really In particular, if it's involving good or bad. So there's an extensive and how to build This certainly of a full episode in the not too distant future. But because social connection on our states of happiness I want to emphasize a few that I think most people Once again, when we hear I think most of us tend to conversation or long walks together or travel together. And while all of those as wonderful opportunities opportunities for are certainly not limited to In fact, I can recall times so this would be times when I Because that was a significant And one of the more important was the staff that worked there and that came in very So one of the more regular would brush my teeth in And there was no one else except for the to leave early in the morning. They had worked a good Or that were arriving And the fact that I would and maybe exchange a few or their families or the became very meaningful. In part, because my social were really limited to that I had in the Now some people might look and look at my life at that was very unhealthy. You were lacking in But frankly, looking and I know this because I was exceedingly for that stage of my life. At that stage of to be focused primarily on myself in my And for me, the even seemingly of talking to the or some of the other regular In fact, for me it And over the holidays when I actually missed And even as I talk recall the feelings of just seeing familiar faces. And that brings up an is there's quite extensive that when we see faces, and in the late afternoon, on the emotional circuitry. Or I should say, the underlies emotional well-being. And that shouldn't We as old world primates, are very dependent on faces in terms of registering and our emotional state. Now the origins In particular, we it's actually called This is an area was largely by Nancy Kanwisher at MIT. And the Kanwisher lab showing that this dedicated to the processing in real life, but faces and elsewhere, are to areas of the brain that are That's actually a work Dorsal's laboratory at has shown that this area in the brain in both is directly linked to that associate with But also, areas are associated with well-being. So it comes as no we see faces, in even if we have just brief and even if no that creates the And it creates a sense And I raise this again because think that social has to come in the form of of course are wonderful. Or close romantic relationships, Or close family relationships, But as we'll soon discuss or how to achieve on the scientific social connection can and And when I say forms of brief interaction, and forms of deeper interaction. All of those are relevant And there's research to with somebody at a cafe or Provided that we or we make the effort to be however brief they are, on people's overall well-being. And not just in that Evidenced by the when I look back on long hours in the laboratory and either to exercising, Again, that's what I wanted Certainly, not the way But that's what I wanted That even those social interactions and had a potent my level of happiness. And frankly, still do. And I feel that right now. That said, I think all of us of social connection that is of lack of a better whether or not that is with or with friends or For that reason, I want about what and what constitutes There are basically two that have been studied as it relates to increasing And the first one is and the second is So in terms of presence there's been a lot whether or not people during conversation or not, each individual in feels as if they Now again, keep in mind that as relating to some deep and oftentimes that Think for instance, an excellent Or an excellent Or an excellent friendship heard and understood, or that people are certain topics with you. You're willing to hear carefully for what and they're willing to hear and in an attempt to understand. That certainly can enhance leading to what people would to increased happiness. But eye contact is also known The thing about eye assume that a lot and in fact, is critical to a And in fact, that's There's a recent paper that I was published in Academy of Sciences in 2021. The title of this marks the rise and fall in conversation&quot;. I find this paper interesting First of all, my laboratory and vision, so it to the work that But also, that it was a general rule of is this idea that two people another, that is directly and fairly consistently in order for the feeling But it turns out And in fact, just to give I'll flesh it out a little bit or I should say mutual registering the presence of the You're looking at me If you're watching then perhaps we are actually And if you're that I'm looking as I'm saying this If we were to be looking that, it turns out, which is that it's very likely away. And that turns out to and reset attention continually So again, I really because of the high fidelity. The high temporal precision. That is, the precision looked at eye contact and between individuals. And they did this by looking and of course looking and so on and so forth. The basic takeaway of this And here I'm quoting Quote &quot;Rather than good conversation in and out of shared states So what this basically two people are let's call it an but the word intimate to mean something about or physical intimacy. Just a conversation feel present to the on that conversation and that only. The tendency is for people although sometimes, they might interrupt Again, interrupting can it doesn't always have But they're sharing information. Hopefully, about a common They will at some moment That's what the study shows. And that after briefly another, attention peaks, and attention will get reduced. And then the of a series of focusing back and then focusing off, And those mutual actually predict the So it's this ramping up of attention. Ramping of attention and I think these are important this stereotype or assumption of the sort leading involves ongoing eye Just as with meditation, just we undergo shifts in That is focus ramps up and it re-engages. It ramps up it breaks, And that, it turns of in-depth connected So for those of you that social connection and in particular for sake because it's very clear even if they are fairly can increase our Seeing faces is important. Ideally, faces in person, over Zoom or over other would be a close second. But the point is that if you you need to have quality And if you want to have you need to be in those social connections. And that requires a viewing ideally, which is not to say exchange can't be meaningful. But that faces are really to engage in social contact. And that eye contact, not but eye contact of the sort and builds up and breaks is going to be the best way that one had a real connection. This should also that you might feel to or to be completely eyes without blinking or diverting during a conversation. This also frankly, where if somebody says, hey, because you look away, be engaging in what is of healthy connection. I talked about this long ago It turns out when very intently to to remember the information we will often close our eyes. And that's not a form of lack a form of attending in. Because we have so much of When 40% of our brain in some way or another, we can actually devote to remembering the specifics But again, please don't with your eyes closed I think that would certainly social connection. So we know that faces are as it relates to And we know that eye contact is social connection. Physical contact for social connection. And not just romantic or In fact, there is a form that is present In fact, it's present as far And is also very much a feature And that's something I have to imagine that haven't heard of allogrooming. The reason I'm is that it stems from a about the prosocial, effects of pets on humans. In fact, if you want there is a paper out of Yale that was published in 2018. The title of the paper is with dogs on affect&quot;, OK in children&quot;. And it references that were performed on humans. And the basic takeaway is animal assisted activities, to increase people, of well-being. Now what's interesting is that dogs have to do much except be for these positive effects, that increases in happiness, And in fact, they can As they describe in the interactions with so you don't even &quot;after exposure to a moderate affect relevant to participants or waited for the So just even seeing a dog has been shown to reduce or I should say, of happiness receiving a soothing object. Which was, at least for me, a I would have thought a soothing object the more powerful stimulus. But in fact, it wasn't, at The real question I think we is, what is it about and with other animals have this prosocial And the reason I because I think many people or having interactions with their feelings of well-being. And I say having myself am a good example always able to have pets. So when I was a graduate I very much wanted a dog. Very, very, very In fact, there was a rule that I wasn't allowed to talk was talking about all Going to dog breeders, going to the pound, et cetera. The point was that I was but I knew I wasn't in a good I didn't have the finances, I situation and so on. Eventually, I did But at the time I couldn't. So what I would do is every where they fostered dogs And I would walk their dog. I would also walk I didn't charge them for it. In fact, I felt like I was with those dogs. And in fact, I put an ad that I would walk and only a few people But of the ones that did, of dog owners that would allow and I was super happy. It just made me And I really enjoyed it. And frankly, it was a to also get to the various dog temperaments and to learn a bit with dogs in a certain way. I actually got to be a Unfortunately, later And it turns out a dog walker you are, Bulldogs In fact, if you've ever and you've offered to you'll notice that And I would argue, having that they like it because it's moving. But that's more about I'm about to tell is this principle of Allogrooming is a that's observed in essentially in nonhuman primates where individuals within a And this is non-sexual touch. So this would be someone or combing their hair or even for instance. Or someone grooming Now typically, one needs relationship with this person. So it could be a professional where this is a barber hair or a hairdresser cutting It could be somebody a manicure or a pedicure. Could be somebody doing skin in a professional context. Or it could be two that it is appropriate and for the relationship to be grooming somebody else. Can even, believe it or not can even extend into sort of cleaning and Now when we see it seems like a very cute and behavior. We can see these If you look them up, you can and you'll see vast of for instance, baboons of each other's hair. Or grooming and kind of to find things, or like little bits like that they want Allogrooming is a certain category of neurons These are a particular category that innervate our skin. So these are literally like little wires that that when they are tend to create a in the person that's Again, this is very context appropriate. But it's known to of oxytocin, a kind of hormone It's both, really. That is known to evoke Or of feeling bonded to And for many people and we think about the bond in particular mother been most extensively studied. Or between two members But if you look at the what you find is that when the increases in oxytocin are at least on par with and in in response to allogrooming to other forms of touch. So the point here is a prosocial to associate with of well-being and happiness. And this is not If you look at the brain imaging on this, allogrooming of bonding between individuals In fact, most often it I suppose two people could grooming one another, is done from the Why did I bring up Well it turns out that or brush their or brush their cats, is a form of human to And it's one in which receive huge and other related neurochemicals I bring this up because study on happiness, if not hundreds of other point to the importance of You hear this over People on their they wish they had worked more. People on their deathbeds of social connections that they had invested I think a lot of people only in terms of travel with But much of what we perceive also involves physical contact. And that's something in our evolutionary biology. And it's present both in us And it's clear in these kinds of pro-social, type behaviors through things touch, a.k.a. allogrooming. So we've been talking about a that one can do in order to And certainly, today, I'm going to synthetic happiness and the such as prosocial social connection, et cetera. But also things that involve focus on vocation Because as I mentioned those are also our state of happiness, our state of security that we can provide for for others, as well. So we will talk about that. But I think it's also about this notion of and whether or not having or limited freedom in choosing and what we are able how that relates to and synthetic happiness. Dan Gilbert and this issue of freedom it relates to happiness. And there I must are incredibly counterintuitive. But very, very well supported I'm going to summarize a large by saying the following. Dan's laboratory and have done experiments a series of options. And one of the more give people the opportunity of different in ascending or descending In other words, ones they like most which Then what's interesting will vary the have to stick to that choice. So this could be by receiving that Or in another to make a choice one photograph that they, or another photograph One of the photographs to a publication, another one And the conditions were either that you and it was final, that is, your decision, or and then you had the that picture for the other In other words, these weren't about rating pictures, whether or not constraining forcing somebody and stick to that choice, led levels of happiness and And what they find that when people have an it leads to reduced Now that might come as but I want to be clear This is not to say that having a most leads to lesser happiness. And that having fewer you do, or objects you leads to greater happiness. What this set of is that when we make a to stick to that far happier with that the option to change our mind. The results of these experiments I believe, in terms of happiness. That is, happiness But I think they are as meaning that if we we tend to be less happy than That is not the case. Having freedom of And actually, correlates with But once we make clearly the case that or having all other for us increases our that we've made. Whereas, leaving doors open, diminishes our sense This has been exported to any So this has been exported to about what college to go to or In every one of see that our happiness is very much related being either the only one or There are a number of different Through the lens might say that the the area of the brain that's and evaluating is an area of the brain to our evolution as human and to our whole life. It is, of course, us to evaluate different rule to switch contexts and to To interpret what's But it's also a meaning it's very And there's an entire to what's called ego depletion. This is certainly a topic But ego depletion essentially attend very intensely to a asking you to count in increments of 13. And then have you through, that's hard If I have you do that, to suppress impulsive behavior or physical task immediately suppressed. This so-called ego depletion. It relates to a number but it certainly of the prefrontal very metabolically demanding. So evaluating choices and or attending to and forcing yourself is metabolically demanding. And that's a limited can be reset by things like or idle time or letting In that case a to allow your brain to But the other thing it impacts the reward the so-called dopamine reward circuitry of the brain. And here I'm painting But it essentially divides if a given choice of or maybe buying ourselves not that I want to compare to selection of an But just to give Might give us, and here units of dopamine increase. Well, if we buy that select that life we emerge from the and we are focused on what our choice, or our life partner then there's a certain amount of with that. And happiness and well-being. But it's also very leave those choices, the store or a life with somebody for and start thinking that we might If those are still open to well then our reward circuitry Not physically fractured, is devoted to the reward with our choice. And as a consequence, instead it's x divided by however we might have available to So instead of, and again, but instead of a certain it's a certain amount by the number of might be considering as And I think this is a of understanding how limiting made them is a we call synthetic happiness. In fact, we could to say that focusing on and really investing in or great ones, and our thinking to the made once we've also important to our Because it's so inextricably we think of as a good life. And what I mean by that in a mode of evaluative even after we've we are not neurochemically to extract the feelings with the choice that we made. So we've talked about a of happiness, both in synthetic And some of the more of happiness. For instance, that their levels of happiness not of their life circumstances. But as we emphasized earlier to say, at least the support the idea that won't impact our happiness. In fact, it tends to. And that's why it's resources and work devoted certainly exists out there. And of course, there are in short term studies showing things don't necessarily scale And yet, we also acknowledged that while indeed money it can buffer stress. And while work doesn't per se, work can bring of meaning and resources into context in which things and enhanced bonds and can be enhanced. So it would be unfair to simply view happiness doesn't matter, it's all And so on and so forth. Absolutely, social which is why we spent some of the ways to enhance both with other human and them with us. I think there's a opportunity on happiness, the research happiness and gratitude and and to combine it into a if you will. And I think indeed, this of our future toolkit episodes, on gratitude, which And perhaps even we will do an and how to enhance or Or at least what the If we take a step at the concept of happiness, of absolute statements. That is, statements that I would contest. First of all, there's no associated with happiness, of the brain and body the stage or the Hence, why there are treatments or mania that target certain and hormone systems. Happiness, at least the has essentially two components. One is meaning. That is, what sort of meaning or behaviors, could be work, et cetera, carry for us? And nested in that is this And we talked a bit about Things like eye contact, but Things like being very or an activity that Remember, we talked &quot;A Distracted Mind The paper published in Science. And we talked about the study, in which giving money, but positively impacted to this feeling of pro-social in the giver and And I should mention just the giving of money but and time and attention that So we have meaning and a number of different And then we have referring to as And I'm talking about as it relates to synthetic happiness, Because we would be if we were to say that I think it's fair to say, that income matters. And income that can cover includes some buffer. And what do I mean by buffer? I mean buffer to the anxiety is important. Now that's going to vary Meaning some people making $1 more than their every month. Other people will require in order to protect them against effects of worrying about Or worrying that they And this is why I think having, if possible, some that could cover two or or maybe even 12 months were they to lose catastrophic happened to them. So if we're going to I think it's only fair, only respectful to talk about of living requirements. That includes this And that buffer to to vary depending on how about the possibility happening to them, like going up or doubling. And here, I'm talking But I think we all know have experienced those So when we talk about need to think about resources. And we also need to I think we would be completely said, oh, any work Any effort, regardless it gets you an A in isn't going to impact I don't think anyone And yet if you look at at least as they are in the public sphere around studies of happiness, is more focused on and how money is not important. I don't think anyone that's that income that can cover isn't important. But it's often not stated. So if we were to come up with a includes various tools our levels of happiness, fair to include both natural and to pursue both natural Just to remind you, is the kind of happiness with obtaining something, or because it was given to us. Although, I definitely want receiving things that don't to receive them over to our dopamine system. That's an important aside. The other form of happiness that we call Which is, for instance, And we talked about ways to enhance your happiness. Again, the language, the implies something But frankly, genuine social There's nothing or synthetic about it, is through action, through Likewise, being focused Working on being focused on to be engaged in, is known to increase Again, this is a form You're not obtaining as a consequence of this. It's entirely internal. There's no external reward. There isn't more with this or a better grade. Although, I would that if you are you're doing in any context, it's very likely to perform better at that work. So we have natural happiness And both of them require And in fact, if we between natural and it really is this of really being focused that's most likely to lead Both externally, in terms of or grades, or it is that you happen to resources of some kind. And presence, and when in the pursuit of so-called of social connection or in on the choice that the best of that choice, made that choice in a way that Well, that also is known to of happiness. So if an ability to focus is really what's most important, lever for both natural well then, tools like a 5 minute day meditation, as allow us to get excellent Which, of course, sets the basis If you've ever had a you are very familiar is to focus the following day. At least for long But building our through a focusing exercise, called meditation, but a focusing and That's going to create on all the aspects, that we know feed into happiness. And so it's really fair to attend and focus really So as is often typical today we've talked a lot of the science of happiness, of happiness and tools to of happiness. If you're learning from please subscribe to That's a terrific zero In addition, please on both Spotify and Apple. And on both Spotify have the opportunity to leave If you have questions about topics and me to include on the please put those in the I do read all the comments. In addition, please mentioned at the beginning That's the best way to The Huberman Lab also has that you can access. It includes summaries as well as summaries for mental health, physical You can sign up by going to Hubermanlab.com, and look for the Neural You just provide your we do not share your And again, it's Again, go to Hubermanlab.com and newsletter. And if you're not already we are Huberman Huberman Lab on Twitter and And at all of those sites I related tools for mental and performance. Some of which overlap covered on the But often, which is distinct on the Huberman Lab podcast. So again, that's Huberman and Facebook. Once again, thank for today's discussion about the for increasing your happiness. And as always, thank you for [MUSIC PLAYING]