From the previously selected cereal grains, which have been obtained after a process of plucking and threshing the harvest, Jorge Rodriguez is going to prepare a few kilos of gofio for us. Gofio and grinding have always been closely related and, therefore, next to the Tiscamanita windmill, the miller is heating the roaster to clean the tallow. Jorge covers the bottom of the roaster with fine beach sand so that the roasting of the beans occurs slowly. To toast the wheat, so that it does not burn, the earth itself toasts it. When the sand is already hot, our friend the miller prepares some measures of grain to roast in the sand. Stirring the &quot;meneador&quot; or &quot;juercan&quot;, mixes the grain with the sand so that it is its own heat that toasts the cereal, while preventing it from burning upon contact with the metal surface of the container. It takes approximately a quarter of an hour for the grain to roast. When, with the naked eye, Jorge sees that the roast is ready, he pours the content onto the sieve to sift it and separate the sand. Although wheat and &quot;millo&quot; or corn predominate today, there have been many types of grain used to make gofio. At least this one is made of wheat, just wheat. This with milk. It can be made with wheat, with corn, with chickpeas, from chickpeas and corn. Before they also made gofio de cosco, but I haven't seen that. In times of famine due to the continuous droughts that depleted the cereal crops, the majoreros resorted to making gofio de cosco, a creeping plant that grows near the sea and has small fruits. But in times of rain and good harvests, the cosco or fern gofio was replaced by the first quality obtained from millet, wheat, barley, broad beans, peas, chickpeas,... In a clay container, Jorge goes collecting the already toasted wheat grain to later take it to the mill. When the miller has roasted all the grain he wants to grind to turn it into gofio, he sifts it again and collects it in a bag, clean of sand. The Majorero aborigines ground the roasted grain in crude mortars and hand mills. After the European conquest and colonization, more modern grinding systems were imposed. One of them is the windmill. On the ground floor of the mill is the flour outlet pipe. There, Jorge places the bag in which the product resulting from the grinding will be collected. On the upper floor, under the wooden hood or cap of the mill, the grinding machinery is housed, which hardly has any metal parts. The miller pours the contents of the bag into the hopper and releases the brake that holds the toothed wheel. At that moment, when they are released, the windmill blades are set in motion by the action of the strong winds prevailing on the island. The axis of the blades, which is also common to the toothed wheel, transmits the movement to it, supplying the energy necessary to drive the complex gear, whose function is to multiply the rotation force of the blades and transmit it to the moving stone to produce grinding. rotating force of the blades and transmitting it to the moving stone to produce grinding. The grain deposited in the hopper passes into the channel which, with a back-and-forth movement caused by the rotation of a square shaft, conveys it in doses to the grinding wheels. There are two millstones, one mobile or millstone and the other fixed. The grain that has entered between the wheels is crushed by the weight of the millstone that is in a continuous rotating movement on the fixed one. The friction of the stones turns the roasted grain into gofio, which is expelled through tiny channels in the stones, to fall into the interior of the sack, which hangs at the end of the wooden tube on the lower floor. The miller can regulate at will, both the amount of grain at the outlet of the hopper towards the grinding wheels, as well as the speed and friction of the milling stone on the fixed one. And the speed of the mill stones influences the quality of the gofio. The slower the grinding, the better aroma, flavor and texture the gofio flour will have. But what most influences grinding is the state of conservation of the stones and the roughness of the surfaces in contact. The miller must chop the stones and, therefore, the grinding must be stopped for a day. To access the contact surfaces of the stones there is only one solution: patiently dismantle all the machinery and then lift the mobile stone, whose weight is around 1,000 kilos. This work must be done when the mill has been in operation for 15 days and the stones have suffered a slight wear, which affects the quality of the gofio obtained. By the gofio when it is released, and by the days it has been grinding, you know when the gofio is not refined it is that it already lacks mince. Virgilio is in charge of conditioning the milling stones. This task consists of making a cut with the &quot;pick&quot;, forming grooves and edges on the contact surfaces of both wheels, in order to break and tear the grain. The upper part of the fixed or sleeping stone has a slightly conical shape, which facilitates the perfect fit of the mobile stone on it. When Virgilio has finished chipping the surfaces of the stones, all the grinding mechanisms must be reassembled. To do this, they first adjust the mobile grinding wheel to the lavija, which is a loop-shaped piece of iron that transmits the movement and maintains the separation of the stones. The windmill was introduced in Fuerteventura between the end of the 18th century and the beginning of the 19th century, achieving great diffusion, favored by the traditional grain economy of the island and by the constant presence of the trade winds, which were its energy source. The miller's work was paid in money or in kind, which could be gofio, grain and other products. The portion of grain that corresponded to the miller as payment for grinding was called maquila. Starting in the 20th century, payment in cash became widespread. Jorge has finished grinding the bags of grain he had prepared. To prevent the island's strong winds from causing the blades to break, the miller folds the canvas, and when he has to put the mill back into operation, he will unfold it again. The traditional windmill, called a &quot;macho&quot; windmill on the island of Fuerteventura, is crowned by the wooden cap, which rotates by means of the tail or rudder, directing the blades to the wind. Although most windmills had four blades, there were some with six. These were made up of a wooden structure on which a canvas fabric was placed. The mill, built on a wooden tower, is more modern than the mill and was designed by Isidoro Ortega in the 19th century. It has the advantage over the mill of bringing together the grinding and grain handling activities on a single floor, which saves the miller the work of going up and down stairs with the load of bags. The windmill provided enormous advantages in the grinding of grains, although it did not lead to the abandonment of older grinding systems, such as the hand mill and the bakery, which continued to be used domestically and in periods of absence of wind. The hand mill has been the most used grinding system in the history of Fuerteventura, from Aboriginal times to the 20th century. The bakery is the ancestor of the mill. Although the work schemes of both are the same, the grinding mechanism of the bakery is more simplified than that of the mill. The bakery works by the action of a group of men who, by turning around moving an axis, transmit the rotation to the millstone. In this case, in which the driving force is human, it is called &quot;boat grinding.&quot; But, generally, the bakery has used the driving power of camels and donkeys. Once the camel is hooked to the mussel, its movement activates the complex mechanism of grinding wheels, bearings and spindle. The rubbing of the moving stone on the fixed one splits the roasted grain and turns it into gofio. Gofio can be made from different cereals, legumes, and even shellfish, but to prepare it well you need the pouch. The making of pouches to knead the gofio is a craft from the aborigines, which is linked to Majorera pastoral life and its culture. While Jose removes the hair, Tomas repairs an old satchel. Keeping a purse in good condition is also difficult, since changes in weather affect the skin and damage it. With the thread that he had prepared, first go over the closure of the two upper extremities and then the neck. Jose continues with his patient work of removing the hair and when he is done, he will soak the skin in goat's milk for a day. Once the vetch is dry, it will be ready to close the three holes. Tomas cuts a piece of leather and prepares a reinforcing snack for the central opening. Once tightly wound around the neck of the skin, this craftsman pierces it with the awl and passes the tying strap over it. The bag is thus prepared to knead the gofio. To prepare a gofio pellet, you use the bag, water and, of course, gofio. Mixed in the appropriate proportions, Jose kneads the gofio, &quot;kneading&quot; it with his hands, until it reaches the point of softness at which the aroma is extracted. Good, and well done it is. Every time the bag is used, it must be cleaned with gofio powder and scrubbed so that it does not get moldy. It is then rolled up and tied for storage until used again. The gofio is still part of the festival, the social events of the majoreros. By itself, gofio amasses the Canarian people and unites its people in a common culture. The gofio cannot be conceived without the mills. The Island Council of Fuerteventura, with the intention of recovering this important plot of the island's cultural heritage, has restored several windmills, which stand over the territory as silent witnesses of a long period of island history. I am Eugenio Monesma, director and producer of the documentary you just watched. If you liked it, I encourage you to subscribe to the channel by activating notifications from the bell and so you can enjoy the hundreds of documentaries that I already have on the channel and which I will be uploading weekly.