- Four o'clock. Hey. So... Yeah, is that... Uh... Is that work? - Yeah, absolutely. It's You saw how much people we did something like this, right? I mean, you could even - I could say this is God's work. What does that mean? - Well, it's TempleOS. - God's third temple. Oh lord. Okay, we're gonna get demonetized over all the religious Fortunately, today's video Elgato's new Wave 1 and Wave 3 USB broadcast microphones are here. With their Wave Link app, you up to seven other audio sources, and created independent mixes. Learn more at the link down below. (upbeat music) Tell me about what I'm - Okay. TempleOS is an open developed by Terry Davis, a longtime computer on the old Commodore 64 back in the '80s. He began the project back in 2003, then called J Operating System, in order to go back to those roots. In his own words, &quot;To recreate that used to exist when and everyone was creating And you can clearly see that inspiration in the interface he ended up with. - Unfortunately, Terry's mental state had been deteriorating with schizophrenia in and he began to see what he believed were CIA agents shadowing him. The story is long, complex, dramatic, and unfortunately, ultimately very tragic. But to sum it up, he began to see what he interpreted as signs from God, resulting in direct in the form of a pseudo-random that he programmed into - Now, while his vocabulary Well, let's just call it controversial. In an attempt to combat he believed was being it was through these conversations that he got the inspiration for many of the foundation elements of TempleOS, which he says God told him 640x480 pixels with 16 single voice audio through the PC speaker, with no preemptive multitasking and a completely open ring-0 design that gives users complete In other words, it's a so long as you know how to use it. - Well, I don't know how to use it, but I'm assuming that it's set up here so that you can guide me - Sure. Let's do it. This is interesting. I don't think I've seen an interface this unintuitive and cluttered. There's so many flashing items that it's not clear to me what Anthony, help me out here. - [Anthony] Okay. So right - Oh, I do. - Oh, look at that! I got a mouse! - [Anthony] Now, how familiar are you with the C programming language? - Yeah, let's go ELI5 here. - [Anthony] Okay. So everything in this operating system, including the operating system itself, is programmed in what's called HolyC. - HolyC. - You have got to be kidding me. - He was a Catholic- - [Anthony] Yeah, he was a Catholic, and he named the language HolyC. It's somewhere in between of power and versatility, and basically, in that vein, the entire operating operating system runs on those commands. So it's all that. That's what This is what's called the Home menu. - The Home menu. - [Anthony] You can get there at any time by pressing Control-M. - Control-M. Okay, got it. And that's the menu flashing up here. Why do I have a menu flashing - [Anthony] Because you You can close one of those You cannot close that It's the debugger and program monitor. - Right, got it. Makes perfect sense. Okay. - System keys quick guide. Space is left click and F7 is God Word. - Yes. - It just put a word up there. - Textultation? - Yeah, that's what you- Wait, texul, tex... What? What is this? - That's the window? So what you're looking at right there, the blinking black square You can control that with the arrow keys. - Wait, so if I press F7 it'll... &quot;Abides. Retired. Hereditary. Circuit. Mouths, names.&quot; Are these just words - I think it's every word is actually aware of. - &quot;Husbands. Filleth.&quot; What about a Shift-F7? Whoa, hey, ho! &quot;Told him said, As I happened by chance leaned upon his spear; and lo, the,&quot; something, &quot;hard after him. And when I looked behind him he said, 'I answered, Here am I.' And he said to me, 'Who art thou?' 'Amalekite.'&quot; Wow. So that's a God Passage. F6 is a God Song. - Now, that we won't be We can come back to that later. - Oh, 'cause we're under VM. - Okay. OS navigation is handled of mouse inputs and shortcut keys, some of which work throughout regardless of what you are looking at. Some of them are things in any operating system, like a shortcut to go to the personal menu, or to exit, for example. Others are ones that like the shortcuts to bring up a God Song, God Doodle, a passage or word. I think the words are from the Bible. They might also just that this OS has access to. As well as a system-wide simply by pressing, what was it? Control-Shift-B? - Control-Alt-B. There it is. - One piece of the operating system that certainly underlines is the Holy Spirit menu, after you open up the Here you'll find some interpreting the Bible and the world, as well as a Q&amp;A with the that we alluded to before. The answers in the Q&amp;A range from things that kinda make sense, like the fourteenth no pedophilia or child porn, yeah, I can get behind that, to things that seemingly with the question being asked, and everything in between. This is a great answer: &quot;Does He like mirrored glass megachurch?&quot; &quot;Secular Glass.&quot; Yeah, sounds about right. Wait, what are we doing right now? - [Anthony] This is a God Doodle. - How do I know when it's done? - [Anthony] Yeah, it'll So one of things about this, you might notice that as well as just general despite the fact that it is text mode. - Yeah. - He created a special file format that allows him to insert those things, along with songs and other stuff, into what is essentially - Huh! - [Anthony] And what is basically a straight text file, except it has these things built in. - That's kind of cool. Are these all... Wait, hold on a second. Fun Games. Unfun Games. Code Scraps and Nongames. - So the tour is actually - [Linus] Yeah. - That tells you all you need to know about actually navigating - Wow. &quot;The Type command is like the DOS command of the same name, or the UNIX command. We will now send your menu It uses the same document format, and the icons are even active!&quot; Wow! So that's the end Oh, shoot. - Oh, my menu's over on the right now. - You can actually move and if you click on the You can't change Adam. But if you were to click and drag- - Okay, what else can we do? - Well, there are games we can play. - Can we start with an unfun - [Anthony] Sure. - Okay. I'm gonna go with &quot;ZoneOut&quot;. &quot;I refuse to rip off the original, so this is intentionally crappy and included for demonstration purposes. Write games, don't play them.&quot; - [Anthony] So this is One thing you'll notice is that BIOS keystrokes, so you'll hit and then it'll wait for the repeat, and then it'll keep turning. And it can only do one of them at a time. - Look at me. I'm sniping him. Oh, shoot. - [Anthony] That one didn't even hit. - Yeah, the hitbox detection is the least of its problems. Yeah, that was unfun. All right. Why don't we try a fun &quot;Start fires by pressing Space,&quot; nice, &quot;on trees.&quot; They're yule logs. &quot;Lead - Okay, so we start fires. Did I start a fire or not? So how do I bring the peasant to the fire? - [Anthony] They'll follow your footsteps. - [Linus] So I have to, like- - You have to really babysit 'em. - So did I get a point? - Yeah, so freezing peasants, - So are these peasants on fire now? - I'm not sure if they're - [Linus] Burninating all the peasants! - We gotta stop making that - [Linus] It is too old. - [Crew] Some people do. - And for those three people Okay, I think I've had enough of this. But hey, solid 30 FPS, so 10 out of 10, better than &quot;Last of us 2&quot;. - Ooh. - All right, let's try &quot;Varoom&quot;. This is the one you were playing, right? - [Anthony] Yes, it is. - I can see why you... I died. - That was quick. Wow, - That was the first thing I went forward and I died. - Okay. Well, that's what This is a learning game. - Yeah, this is all edutainment. (Linus makes car revving noises) Ah! Varoom, varoom, varoom! This is, by far, the best game so far. - Yeah, it's actually pretty decent. There's also a flight - It makes you wonder just how talented this guy was before... Well, you know. - Things happened. - 'Cause if nothing quite a breadth of skill. - Yeah, he created all the 2D libraries and 3D libraries from scratch, the operating system from And by the way, that was 16 colors. Okay, so the final thing is a game called &quot;After Egypt&quot;. It is not actually included in the main distribution but I do have it on a CD image. - Okay. - So I'm gonna show you, or tell you, how to mount a CD image. - Wow, it has CD support. Okay, yeah. Remember, this has to be capitalized. Mount, semicolon. Enter. Now, it supports RAM drives, What we want is a CD drive, because we actually So type T and press P So we got the hard drive We wanna choose the CD drive. Just hit 2. And Enter. And hit Enter to exit. So you can see that the Type DRV. Open parentheses. Quote. T. Quote. Close. Semicolon. Okay. - So you see that it changed because that is the - Okay. Now choose Supplemental Games. So CD, oh wait! I can just - Yeah, just click it. - &quot;After Egypt&quot;. Now type hashtag. - Hashtag. - It's a pound sign. Include, space, quote, Run with a capital R, unquote. And just Enter. And type a colon and hit Enter. So this is something that back when he created it. This is a Moses simulator. - Yeah, like I'm on Mt. Sinai, kinda looking down at the... Okay, so we've got a - [Anthony] Yeah. So you can hit Escape. That'll bring up a menu. - Oh, so it's like an &quot;Oregon Trail&quot;-style choice-making adventure game, sort of. - [Anthony] He didn't an end goal or anything like that. This is more of a software - So wait, so when there's a golden calf I should probably... Okay. Wait, Mt. Horeb? I - [Anthony] I'm actually not sure. (phone beeps) - What mountain did Moses climb? (phone beeps) - Mt. Sinai. - [Siri] According to the - Okay, so I need to find a burning bush. - Yeah, so you'll use - Okay, so now you're at the oracle. We get to see what God says. Sometimes it's something different. Okay, you got the good thing. This is God speaking directly to you. - &quot;Grievest shakes discord potter biting mark observed province ye whilst likewise scourges by.&quot; I feel like trying to find farther from knowledge. - I mean, it did have - So I should fire Colton? - [Anthony] There's only one - Sorry, Colton. TempleOS So why is this not included - I'm not sure. It might've been that he it was something that he was working on, or it might've been... I don't actually know what the I do know that he was very proud of it when he created it though. - [Linus] Got it. - I think it's not strictly a - Can it do anything else useful? - Well, yeah. If I were better at I could probably whip something up. It's, from what I understand, very easy to create sprites So it's really a tinkerer's tool, like a beginner's Like you have full control - So that's a really cool idea. - Yeah, it's like the So the God Song. Yeah, we couldn't do that - Right. So this one does have sound. It'd just crash in the - Okay, so F6? So you can choose what level Whether it has rests- - what octave it has, I'm not So Simple, Normal, Complex. - Complex? (cheery tune beeping) Hilariously, I don't think it's worse than the soundtrack of a or something like that. - Yeah, that's actually not terrible. - Like, there's some - There's some terrible - What a thing. If you guys wanna learn more, check out Fredrik Knudsen's investigation into the creation of TempleOS and its creator. It's far more in-depth than what we could possibly cover it was quite the experience. You guys can try it out We'll have a link to where to get it down in the video description. You can fire it up in a VM. That's probably the easiest And yeah, go ham. And the video's brought Manscaped created the world's first all-in-one manscaping kit that makes manscaping both safe and easy. The Perfect Package 3.0 to take your grooming including their Lawn Mower with its ergonomic design, and advanced SkinSafe Technology, I mean, you don't wanna Nobody wants to nick their balls. Those of you who wanna nick your balls, feel free to let me know in the comments. I will make sure I get 'cause I don't need to hear from y'all. The replaceable ceramic trimmer blade is 100% compatible with both with its powerful 7,000-RPM motor and 600-milliamp-hour lithium-ion battery. It charges wirelessly, it's waterproof, and you can get 20% off and free shipping with your Perfect Package 3.0 purchase when you use code LTT at the Thanks for watching this video. If you guys enjoyed it, alternative operating A little more conventional, but frankly, not much more useful. Depending on what you're trying to do. At least this is a Bible-reading app. - Well, it's that, and it's also like a modern-day Commodore 64, That's the point.