Central South 9133 Synthetic Athletics I'm a competitive controller at the airport. The person in charge is the airspace above the airport Aircraft in the 500-6 km altitude range Like air traffic police Mom, I just got off work. Lin Yue I've been working for so long. Go home and rest Don't forget to see mom tomorrow The boy I introduced to you Absolutely high quality Okay, just this once. I told you I like you That's your high school classmate who's a pilot. Haven't seen you for so many years. Can there be any results? How are you Please 0664 Landed? Fu Zheng Ready to go back Just come back I used to think Blonde and blue-eyed girls from abroad are also good mothers You don't have to beat around the bush. If you have something to say, just say it haha My son understands me. You have a day off tomorrow 2 p.m. I arranged a blind date for you. I'd better go with you to see knew I met you after we walked through the mountains Hello How could the person I'm dating be that person? Meng Yu Ah, it's me What to drink An iced Americano Thank you for dressing up nicely today. You were also asked by your family to come here Uh, you too. My mother said that not getting married at 28 is a serious crime I don't think you look 28 I thought you just graduated. Li Fuzhou I've been his classmate for so long. He probably doesn't even remember my name. In fact My lady, your ice beauty is here. I have other plans later. Where do you live? Need me to notify Yes, I live near the airport. It's quite close, no need to bother Good road, be safe Um I don't know how many people are in the photo. Haven't seen you for a long time. I will organize a gathering for everyone tomorrow Xia Pei, you have become more beautiful again Your bag is so beautiful. My boyfriend bought this for me when we went to Paris. So enviable Yeah Mr. Zhang, where have you made your fortune recently? What business do you do? No, not worth mentioning. General You are too modest. Come come come drink one drink one Why Is there such a person in our class? This is Meng Liyue She used to wear glasses and have short hair How come you're so beautiful now? Although it is said that women change a lot when they grow up Zheng Zhe is too haven't seen you for a long time If Meng Liyue looked like this in high school Then when it comes to selecting the class beauty, how can Xu Moti get his turn? That's right, Mr. Wang You used to be too low-key Suddenly look good It's just plastic surgery. Wow Where am I? Eyes or nose? You know me so well Are we the same doctor? you Hey, look at that chin and nose, it seems like they really had plastic surgery The eyes also moved I'm not done with you I'm not done with you I'm always at your service Oh, that's right. If you think there is something that needs improvement You can contact me I'll introduce you to a better doctor. You wait for me Hey, classmate, your bag Sorry, I'm late. Hey, where is the captain flying recently? Green classmate Can you, the pilot, buy a flight ticket? Hey, do you usually drive a Boeing or an Airbus? Actually, there is a professional here. If you have any questions, you can ask him. Hey who is it? Yeah, who is it? Dream of the Moon He is the relative manager of the airport. Over the airport I have to take him You got it My mother told me She was very angry when she found out that I failed in the blind date Auntie must be anxious. I didn't realize we were high school classmates So you didn't recognize me I didn't tell you Meng Liyue, you are now quite capable. Dare to bully Xia Pei Apologize to him immediately You are quite capable now. Dare to bully Xia Pei Apologize to him immediately Xia Pei should be held responsible for slandering me for plastic surgery Apologize to me It's just a joke What are you really doing? Don't be a human being Too sensitive What's more, you are so different now than in high school. It's reasonable for people to suspect you of having plastic surgery I heard you became a mistress of a rich old man He's old enough for you to call him dad. What nonsense are you talking about? Just reasonable suspicion You just said Besides, am I really talking nonsense? Take care of yourself first. Can't get married at an old age After all, who will marry you? This kind of illegitimate daughter who can't be on the stage Fortunately, Moti didn't come today. If he comes, you have to kowtow to him. Meng Liyue, you are so shameless How dare you cheat in the exam to get such a high score Who asked you to wear this hairpin? Seeing that Moti is good-looking, I imitate him and learn from him. I didn't sing I didn't imitate My mother bought Xu Moti herself. It's too dark. You don't even look at yourself. The ugly duckling can never become a white swan Your mistress's daughter Are you worthy enough to compete with our Moti? Meng Liyue Your mother's mistress I don't want to pursue you anymore. After all, you are also my cousin's sister. Please don't do this again, okay? Did you hear that? Give it back to me. Give it back to me. You give it back to me What are you doing? What are you doing? Need help? Fu Zheng, why are you here? If necessary My video can be given to the teacher as evidence ah Thank you If they bully you again I can be a witness at any time Meng Liyue Meng Liyue, what are you staring at? You apologize, it's impossible It can't be good Then I'll let you guys see She's been bullied since high school. Still won't give up Do you remember right I remember everything Although you have changed a lot since then Apologize to me Otherwise I will sue you for defamation good sorry sorry At once Have you ever considered getting married? Have you ever considered getting married? I haven't thought about it My family is in a hurry If you are facing the same situation You can consider The queens get along in a way that they feel comfortable with. Let it be Tell me which flight? Captain Li will fly to Guangzhou at 4:40 Pay attention to check the information in the system knew The captain cannot fly due to special circumstances I'm going to fly the flight for him as a backup. Okay About what I just said If you think about it Please give me a reply as soon as possible Um goodbye Um goodbye South 8244 Remove height restrictions Up to 2,100 standard atmospheric pressure Well Star Pressure Two Degrees 6 Synthetic Quiet Radar detected Down to 2,700 Dongfang 54 turn 8 Up to 3,600 standard atmospheric pressure Synthesis Taboo Good evening Zhounan 6385 altitude below 2,100 Yingda 71 two or three point hole Listen to your command Zhounan 6385 collectively known as taboo Radar sees runway dynamic dual-use deceleration 18 holes The dual-use track slowed down to 18 holes Zhounan 6385 Zhounan 6385 Maintain 1,200 First stand down Got it. Keep one shot. Build a Slide Zhongnan 6385 If there is no problem Radar service termination Contact Card Station 1 See you at two or three o'clock Continuous Tower 1 Two or three point hole Zhongnan 6385 goodbye There's no need to worry so much about my driving skills. I won't just look at the dashboard and not the road. No, I didn't expect He's trying to seduce me. It's his dream He still remembers my past. Now 28 Why are you still shy? What is clear It's almost here Is this here? Ah, thank you for sending me back. etc. About what I said Have you thought about it? good Is it an adventure or a foolish impulse? Unable to tell Then I want to catch the stars I chased when I was young Even if it's a gorgeous Christmas But the beauty is destined to end I'll take you there and move your things. Don't bother, I can do it myself Already married You are so polite to me. Pick one If you want to stay in the same room, you can I'll sleep in the guest room first. Don't you hate me? Of course not Oh, I thought you were trying to frame me. If it gets out, I'll let my wife sleep in the guest room I'd probably be ruined. Right Tell me when you get used to it. What Of course, I moved. Congratulations to my baby daughter on her wedding I'll post a happy circle of friends You didn't even tell me in advance about your marriage to Li Yue. Do you still remember the word &quot;Li Yue&quot;? I thought you only had eyes for that fox And his child What do you want him to do? Why I don't listen The child you had with your mistress during marriage She is only a few days younger than Lin Yue You are such a shameless person We all thought you were dead Stop talking When you divorced, you left nothing for Lin Yue. This is so disgusting, you will get your comeuppance sooner or later, get out of here you say That bitch's daughter still works at the air traffic control bureau It's just shit luck. I'm going to make that bitch's daughter Disappeared in my world Well, I flew to London last week for the class reunion. Otherwise, I'll let everyone know. What kind of creature is he? By the way, how's your pursuit of Li Fuzheng going? Ignore me at all You are really useless. Your family is so rich You have to hurry up Do you know? Got it I'll deal with Meng Liyue first. If you don't want to be a mistress My daughter's affair became known to everyone. Come out and see me Tell me, what do you want to do? Why are you so nervous? We just want to come and catch up with you. There's no need to pretend in our relationship Chen Ranguang's embarrassing look that day was quite funny Moti, look, he doesn't even put you in his mind. Kneel down and apologize to him We will forgive you otherwise All your colleagues will know that you are a mistress. child Don't threaten me My mother married Xu Dejin first. Hahaha If Dejin hadn't seen you at your mother's house Can help his career He can marry you That's me. Moti's age has already been changed. One year older than your daughter From now on, no matter who asks You forced me to marry you. You are a mistress Me and my daughter The victim Do you understand? You forgot How were you and your mother kicked out of the house? Um You are crazy What are you doing I won't let you have an easy time You gave me before I will give them all back to you I didn't know you were here I tried to reason with Meng Liyue She actually threw milk tea at me Fu Zheng, you are here I tried to reason with Meng Liyue She actually threw milk tea at me Fu Fu Zhen Wo Are you okay? I feel a little uncomfortable I just want to help Meng Liyue and Ran Guang clear up their misunderstandings He did this to me I'm so sad Fu Zheng, for the sake of our classmates, I don't want to pursue him anymore. My mother went to see Aunt Shen today Let's have dinner together tonight At night yes I remember you loved Teochew food when you were in high school. I know there is one You will definitely like it Xu Moting Fu Zheng I don't have time to have dinner with you tonight Meng Liyue, I don't want to pursue this with you anymore What else do you want? You wouldn't think Fu Zheng helped the cats and dogs on the roadside just like he did back then. Helped you You are just wishful thinking I think she's very special in his heart. It's Meng Liyuan You don't even look at how much you are worth. I want to be with Motibi You are not worthy of it. You are the daughter of a mistress. There is absolutely no way Fu Zhao will like you Who said that? Who said that? Know why I'm here You weren't called by him. Yes, Deputy Chief. My mom called you, right? I just heard you on the phone I'm worried that something happened to my wife Li. Come and see Thank you What are you talking about? Fu Zheng said the flower umbrella at home was broken We have to go back and see Yeah, home You live together How can we live together? I've been chasing him for so many years. Are you worthy too? I see You rented his house at the airport, right? I thought You got the job as an air traffic controller by accident. It should be easy. I didn't expect it to be so poor. Who told you that I rented his house? Otherwise, Meng Liyue Are you trying to tell me you're in love? us Really not in love Huh, I knew it. Meng Liyue, you really have some skills But Li Fuzheng doesn't like you at all If he likes it, he likes it. Our Mo Ting is beautiful Another stewardess of Central China Airlines What position do you have? What are the air positions? Who knows? What to do then Li Sizheng married me What to do then Li Fuzheng married me What Got married impossible Fu Zhen He must be lying to me, right? He didn't lie to you let's go good This little girl has become very capable in the past few years. Li Fuzheng has only been back in China for a few years She shut up. I won't let her go. Didn't you say shower hair? I'll help you fix it. Oh, I think I remembered it wrong. Menglu uses me to deal with your enemies today How does it feel? you You see It's very different from high school. Throwing milk tea is fast and ruthless Am I being too harsh on Xu Moting? I'm not qualified to judge whether your behavior is excessive. After all, you were the one who got hurt. You have the right to do whatever you want to them. This is a problem between you Thanks You don't have to say thank you to me You should thank yourself. Have a friend please have dinner together Well, I might need to change my clothes. I went to see Xu Moting today Especially suitable for standing let's go Seeing my friend dressed so elegantly Aren't you afraid that I'll be jealous? Seeing my friend dressed so elegantly Aren't you afraid that I'll be jealous? Will you be jealous? you guess I don't know Oops, let's go. Li Fuzheng actually said he was married He also wants to bring his wife to meet us. I don't know what's going on. Moti just called me. And cried so hard I have to see what this woman is capable of. Hey, Li Fuzheng doesn't like others interfering with his decisions. You know best since we grew up together I don't believe it He can turn against us just because of a mistress's daughter. ah No introduction Dream Moon My Wife's Life Once you leave, you will never know my childhood Hello It's true that your wife didn't lie to us. Hey, I'm a little younger than Fu Zhengneng Do I have to call you sister-in-law? Don't tease her This is confusing. I'm going out to answer a call I really don't know What does Fu Zheng see in you? Mr. Lin seems to have some opinion about me. Um I'm a straightforward person. I won't be polite to you. Fu Zheng is a civil aviation captain Annual salary of one million There are many women who want to marry him. But he really doesn't deserve you. So what kind of person do you think is worthy of it? At least the kind of Morty Xu Moti Yeah, they knew each other since high school. Equal family background And they are all doing business I heard you are Moti's half sister. Right? You are so arrogant with a stolen identity. You don't even check if you have the qualifications. We don't like you in this circle Hey, please say less. What am I afraid of? Just the truth Don't trust your friends' choices But willing to believe another person's unfounded lies Very stupid You dare to scold me The one who really destroyed other people's families was Xu Moti's mother They spread rumors everywhere Defaming my identity Xiong Moti has you spinning around What he said What do you believe in? I'm very curious Have you ever taken an IQ test? Meng Liyue, who do you think you are? If it weren't for revenge You didn't even get a chance to talk to us? In this case You don't have to accept this meal. I've got this all for you. I don't need anyone to ask The more I dream, the more my wife Disrespecting him is disrespecting him. clear Apologize immediately Our friends for more than 20 years You asked a woman of this status You made me apologize Just because we are friends I'm giving you this chance. Otherwise, you think it's as simple as just apologizing. What if I don't? Your business Ning's business No need to do Why has the Ning family come this far? You know very well A random word from the Li family You, the idle young master, don't have to wait. Okay, I apologize. sorry You don't have to have psychological burden This was his fault. He must apologize. Drink up I forgive you most OK I drink some times the real life You stared at him and left. I just did that You guys can't be friends anymore? It's fine It will be fine once this pig brain figures it out. I just didn't expect that he actually knew Xu Moti Xu Moting's mother used to have a good relationship with Ms. Shen In high school, he often came to my house. She and Ning Yuxu met at that time I just didn't expect it to be this many years. They still have contact So that's how it is I thought What do you think Because you and Xu Moti are supposed to be together A pair I cut my hair for no apparent reason. Um, nothing. My mother called me She knows the real situation of your family. She won't associate with that place anymore. Yeah, that's what you were talking about. What do you think I'm going to say to you? What do you think I'm going to say to you? I have no idea When I refuted Ning Yi just now Isn't that courageous? Why do you suddenly become less courageous now? That's different What's the difference Because you are what I like Deputy Chief Li I I I have to pee urgently, so I'll go back first. Why Forget it, I have an early shift today It's only 6 o'clock now Don't wake up Yeah Li Fuzheng, are you up? Have you gone out? You left without telling me. We're roommates after all. Maybe Li Fuzheng really has no interest in Xu Moti Will he like me then? The meteorological department gave a forecast There will be a short severe thunderstorm tonight. The mountain area you are responsible for is very stressful. Can you hold on? No problem. I don't know if it's possible tonight. Meet him on the radio waves at an altitude of 7 meters Dongfang 2668 turns to 15th hole You can move two left blind landings Turn left and go to hole 15 You can move two left blind landings Oriental Two 668 Hualou 8168 Fly 500 miles southeast Greetings and waiting Breaking the city close Apply to descend as soon as possible Landing on the runway using the beam group A passenger on the plane had heart problems Zhongnan 9133 There are many flights delayed due to thunderstorms But the routes are limited. Director Mu, rest assured Zhongnan 9133 Synthetic Quiet Radar Tracking and Maintenance Current course down 2,400 Keep going and I will help you coordinate the fastest landing Dongliang Group's Route I'm taking passengers on board Thank you Zhongnan9133 Shenzhen 9411 turns right to Sandong Height above the cave: 3,000 Hainan pipe 4 times pipe maintenance Heading up to standard pressure 3,600 China eastern five one five two distance miton three thousand and three hundred The routes are clear. Central South 9133 1,800 feet high means you should land first as soon as possible. Pillar Group Thanks to that Jinjing control lady It's not easy to have such a smooth thunderstorm. I just hope that the passenger is okay. Um Captain Li The patient's family has accompanied him to the hospital. It should be fine now. Good brother Brother Zheng Today, the control lady Not only does the voice sound nice The instructions are also issued quickly I'm telling you It may not be so smooth in other places. Fu Zheng, what a coincidence! Do you know Captain Li? We've known each other since high school. Are you busy My mom said she has an appointment with Aunt Shen for dinner tonight. My mother is not in the country How did you date her? Well, we can eat together. No need. I left and went back to the company for a meeting. Oh ok Ha ha Meng Liyuan What are you doing here? Didn't Fu Zheng tell you? We are on the same flight today. The one where a passenger had a heart attack. So Fu Zheng married you It's just that it's easier to find you. He doesn't love you at all Does he love you? Don't be complacent He will soon get tired of a woman like you. How come I don't know I get bored quickly How come I don't know I get bored quickly Fu Zheng, didn't you go back to the company for a meeting? Just an awards ceremony It's over in 10 minutes Fu Zheng, I'm doing this for your own good A woman like Meng Liyue is not worthy of you at all And our Xu family and your Li family are getting married. A true powerful alliance You talk too much. I'm not interested What do you see? It's none of your business Qiu Mengting, please stop causing trouble in the future My patience is limited Let's go I won't let go like this. Oh, how is the patient on your flight today? Just received a notification There is no longer any danger to life. Very good Thanks for your guidance. This is what we should do Do you want to watch TV? I still have some documents to study You like it It doesn't matter This kind of self-entertainment life is also good hiring aren't you tired of hoping the right candidates trying to find a needle in a haystack that's why you should find zippercruiter for free at zippercruiter.com free instead of waiting for great candidates to find you I'm also on vacation tomorrow Let's have a meal together. How about eating Cantonese food at Jade Garden It seems my wife is more popular than I thought. Is he wrong again? But how did I get back from my holiday last night? Um The weather is bad when I return to Guangzhou Transfer to Shenzhen This might be a mistake. Sorry, Director Mu. I won't have dinner with you today. I'll go eat Cantonese food with the crew later. Brother Zhen, are you going? Okay No, he got the message. Why don't you reply me? What if I can't go back today? My girlfriend is going to be angry again I had promised him that I would go to the movies with him. Oh yeah Brother Zhen, I'll go back and rest for a while. If there is any new notification, I will let you know. Ahhh ah What's wrong Ah you It's you. I thought it was That you You're back so late. Delayed oh Didn't you get my message? Did you send me a message? Didn't I send it? Ah, you mean the one about the emergency landing in Shenzhen? Well, I thought you sent it to the staff. Sent to the wrong person Uh, who did you have dinner with today? Who did you have dinner with today? I ordered takeout at home Didn't you eat with anyone else? Um who? No casual question You are so weird Um alright Go to bed early. I will fly tomorrow Um Tomorrow, Director Mu will treat everyone to hotpot. Remember to arrive on time Did you see I'm not wearing any clothes? I should knock first. Yeah, it's okay. I just want to tell you that the master bedroom pipes are really bad. I'll find someone to fix it as soon as possible. Oh my my I'll go clean it up. You want to go out? Director Mu, please have dinner. Our team gathering Do you want me to take you there? No, a few of us will go there in the tomb owner's car. Quite far knew Remember to order takeout. Um Which hot pot restaurant do you go to? Did you notice that Director Mu was taking special care of you today? No, of course there is. He always asks you what you want to eat And it will remind you every time the food is ready Director Mu is very caring towards everyone. That's not necessarily He's obviously targeting you. They all went home Or you take my car. I'll take you back. Oh me Hello Are you going with your colleagues or taking my car? I'll be right there Director Mu, no need to bother you anymore. Gone You won't go with us? How did you get here? I was bored and asked Ning to have dinner together. Nearby Oh, I see. I thought you asked me where I ate hotpot. Came to see me specifically. Who is that? Ah, Director Mu Our substitute teacher Secondary controller That's amazing. I have been working for so many years and I am only at level 4 You admire it. I feel like you're not happy. Is it because of Director Mu? Is it because of Director Mu? No Yeah, I think I'm overthinking. He doesn't like me How could I be jealous? Do your colleagues know you are married? I probably don't know yet. No wonder No wonder fine Do you know it? It's the same. Don't you have anything you want to tell me? What do you mean? Your tomb owner probably has other intentions towards you. How is it possible? He is my substitute teacher. My internship He was the one who scolded me the most. No conflict After all, you are now a very good air traffic controller. He admires you Even so, it's just admiration. Okay, even if it's just for appreciation Then your colleagues asked you if you were married. Just tell them you're married. Then they asked me who my husband was. Can I say that too? Why not say I thought we got married in such a hurry I don't know where the future lies Because you don't want too many people to know What you said makes some sense Then just keep hiding it. Even if we get divorced, no one will know Then just keep hiding it. Even if we get divorced, no one will know That's what you think of me Of course not. Since we are already married I certainly hope so. Can be together for a long time What a coincidence I think so too Li Fuzheng Even if you just find it troublesome I want to have a stable marriage relationship I will also walk with you without hesitation Hello Li Fucheng I I'll press the elevator first. Hello You work at the airport. Don't tell dad either. Tell you Ever since you divorced my mom When did you manage me? When do I go to school? When will you graduate? Where to work after graduation You know nothing Let me say now Why not tell you Li Yue Dad ignored you. It's Dad's fault I know you work at the airport. Come and care about you Forget it. What on earth are you calling for? Hurry up and say it Working at the airport Busy and tired How about daddy arrange a new job for you? Why Okay, I'll tell you the truth. Because of your job I've had a falling out with my family. You quit now. Go to work where I assign you a job. Otherwise, I'll give you my phone. Give me your phone Deputy Director Xu Are you really with Li Yue? Married yeah If you didn't know before I'd also like to take this opportunity to tell you But you are obviously irrelevant to tacit understanding Uncle Xu Because our two businesses are related. I remind you From now on, Li Jia and I will protect Li Yuan well. If someone wants to hurt her You can try it. Okay. Don't be afraid good Go back to your room. have a good rest Um Thank you Mrs. Li Thank you, these two words should not appear between you and me Um Sir, what do you think of this model? The diamond is big enough and sparkling enough Your wife will be envied by many people when she wears it. Can you pay? Sir, are you sure you want it? Well, this ring is worth more than 3 million. You think I can't afford it? Of course not. I'll pack it for you. The one just now seemed to be Li Fuzhe She's not buying a wedding ring for Meng Liyuan here, is she? This brand is valuable. Hundreds of thousands of dollars can't buy it. Meng Liyuan, that little bitch Why does she Aren't you going to cause trouble for him? So I'll give you an idea What are you doing here? We came to you to give you face. Don't be shameless. Whose face is it? Shen Ranguang You just follow Xu Moti all day long A pug that only knows how to bark Where does the face come from? You are now eloquent I want to see how you can laugh later. Xu Mengting Please stop haunting me. I feel sick when I see you Stop, don't touch me. What are you doing? Did you know that Mu Ting bought this diamond ring? How much did it cost? Put you and your poor mother together Can't afford it I have lived a life of luxury since childhood. If something gets dirty, I won't want it again. Buy new ones directly So I spent 2 million to buy this gem ring Give me the money The stuff is yours After all this time, you are here to scam me Could it be that the Xu family Almost bankrupt I told you to use this method to cheat money How do you talk? Moti has an invoice. If you can't afford it today If you can't eat it, you have to take it with you Why Meng Liyue, you definitely can't afford it I don't want to argue with you. As long as you kneel down and kowtow to me twice I'll let you go Don't want to kowtow Then you lick our shoes clean. That's fine. That's right Or kowtow Either you dream Since you don't want to compensate Then I'll call out all your colleagues. Let them know You are just an illegitimate daughter who is not presentable. And broke my stuff Refusing to compensate Low character Give you 10 seconds If you want to work Just do it. What if he doesn't do it? Fu Zheng, you are here It's really not my fault this time. I wanted to reconcile with him. Too bad he doesn't make sense at all And broke my stuff This is a treasure I collected from an auction house. Especially precious I had no choice but to Xu Moting, you are so good at turning the tables It's really getting better and better. You can even come up with a reason to reconcile with me. I'm telling the truth. Fuzhou, you must believe me Have you forgotten? We are childhood sweethearts Growing up together A good match The moon in my dream is not worthy of being compared with us Enough I'll pay for the ring. You can't pay This was broken by Meng Liyue He should pay the price for this. you're right Li Fuzhou can't compensate me Because I was not wrong from the beginning to the end. You still want to quibble There are several monitors here. Better tune it out. Watch frame by frame Whose problem is it? The surveillance falls out. Meng Liyue, I don't have time to waste with you today I'm out of luck. Oh, when I went out this morning I thought you arrived at the airport first. A few days ago The execution time has expired Rest today Oh, I'll give this to you. only Married for so long I didn't even give you a ring. It's my problem Very beautiful, I like it very much Just like it What happened to mom? Me and Yueyue's mother I'm having dinner at the airport. Have you arrived home? Nothing happened yet I haven't been here since you bought that house. Can we come over as guests? Well They're coming to check on you. What But we didn't live in the same room. So hurry up and go home ah Seize the time I'm going to open the door. son mom Ha ha Auntie, oops Okay, please be nice. Yueyue is here hahaha It's near the airport. It is true that only this neighborhood is barely passable. Yueyue, are you used to living here? I'm used to it. Auntie, you'll get used to it. But It would be better if you two had the wedding sooner. Change your words quickly I really want to hear you call me mom. Hahaha Yueyue, do you mind if I go to your bedroom to take a look? Of course I don't mind. Ok, let's go. Ahhh oops Hahahaha oops Hahahaha ok Hahaha oh Yueyue We have other things. I won't disturb you two. Have a good rest at home That's right. Uh, we'll leave first. ah Won't you sit down for a while? No, no ... Hey, you guys are busy, you guys are busy, you guys are busy Bye hahaha Gone child Then I won't sit down. Hmmmm Are you scared? A little bit Don't worry, they won't come back in a short time. I'm going to pack my things Good, deal with it. Yeah, that Otherwise, don't bother. Things still need to be moved around Are you sure Yeah, I'm sure Well, you're already married. We should live together. That zither probably won't be able to guess what I'm thinking. Good to know I'm going to take a shower I won't snore. I don't have the habit of grinding my teeth. Why Where am I casual Don't worry I won't do anything to you until you agree. I'm afraid I can't help but do something to you What are you going to do to me? What are you going to do after you retire? You don't know the comparison You said so I'm more curious. What are you going to do? I think He wants to kiss me Should I be more proactive? It shouldn't scare him. I want to turn off the lights Go to bed early ah Ah, good morning. Sorry for waking you up. No, I'm thirsty. I'm ready to go So will you come back tonight? The weather is bad recently. There is a high probability of delay If you exceed the execution time, you will have to stay overnight in the local area good Mr. Captain Good luck Lend me your good words Ms. Guan Zhi Huai Zhi Ge You you are back Little Fox Brother Huaizhi, long time no see It's been quite long. I almost thought you forgot about me This is Dong Huaizhi My mom and his dad were in love It's a pity that Uncle Long passed away unexpectedly He couldn't be my half brother. No way! Didn't you fly international routes before? I'm afraid you're too busy I didn't dare to disturb you Most of the flights are domestic flights now. I can always be invited to eat and watch movies in Hecheng Um How have you been lately? fine Where's your aunt? It's also good Even though my dad is gone But Xiaoli, you and Aunt Meng are still very important. I know you are important to us too. so What didn't you tell me? I am married Why did you suddenly think of getting married? Just met I think it's time Yes, he is my high school classmate. I have the opportunity to introduce you to good Aunt Meng sent a message She said she was free Let's go have dinner with her. Okay Brother Huaizhi, thank you for sending me back Why are you being so polite? I remember you had a movie you wanted to watch. Let's go watch it together. I don't know if I have time to talk about it. Um Then I'll go first Um You are back Is today going well? not bad That person just now is your friend Yeah, yeah It's a long story Let's go home and talk slowly Um Drink water OK I just told you a long story, now I have time to tell it ah The man just now is the son of my mother's ex-boyfriend He is also a pilot. Not often synthesized Then what Then we had dinner My mom is here too After eating, he sent me back. so Um Did you misunderstand something? You call him Huai Zhike I don't even have this treatment. You said I misunderstood something I don't even have this kind of treatment. You said I misunderstood something If my mother married Uncle Lou Then we are a family I really just see him as a brother. So don't misunderstand me. Oh, I see. Then you now Um It's getting late Rest early Um Was he jealous just now? Really beautiful What does Miss Control want to do? I didn't do anything. But the person was caught red-handed. I just feel What do you think feel I think you look handsome I want to open Can After all, this is your exclusive right. Do you still need it? No, no Welcome to continue No need, I'll wash up. I'm going to work No dispute Hey brother The beautiful stewardess of our airline is looking for you again You are so popular It has to be you It seems you are very confident about today's flight plan. Uh, why don't I give it all to you later? Uh uh uh I'll wait for you over there. do what Fu Zheng's last incident was just a coincidence Listen to my explanation I didn't want to harm Meng Liyue I don't care what you think But I advise you to These tricks It has no impact on the relationship between me and Li Yue. You'd better stop haunting me Fu Zheng We have known each other for so many years Don't you still want to believe me? Believe in the things you do Do I need to remind you? I don't Don't come to me if you have nothing to do The whole time I went to the toilet Hey, what's going on between you and Brother Zhen? what happened What happened Because some people instigated Fu Zheng may have some misunderstandings about me But no matter how I explain He doesn't want to believe me Is it that serious? Um well Can you say some good things for me in front of him? Yes No problem Thank you Deyue, why don't you come to the meeting again? You are short of money today. Hey, I'm here. Meng Liyue, wait for me I will never let you go so easily Zhounan 9981 Synthesize Quietly Radar recognition Slow down to 18 holes first Weather ahead I want to maintain my course and fly 10 nautical miles Then turn right and go down to the 21st hole at the height of Zhongnan 9981 Zhongnan 9981 Yes Thank you for the application of Zhongnan 9981 synthetic line Turn right and go to Building 22 South China 611 two South China 611: Two directions and two holes conflict Fly 10 nautical miles on current course Turn right and go down two caves Fly 10 nautical miles on current course Turn right and go down two caves South China 611 See you at the two sessions politician The captain of South China Airlines was really lucky today. Did you find out? The route that the control lady arranged for him Just like us He's flying right along with us. What good luck! Who are you talking about, brother? Then wasn't there a thunderstorm when we landed today? Ah, keep following us. Let me tell you about that captain of China Southern Airlines. There must be something going on between him and the control lady How did you figure that out? Listen to me. This matter Flight log Good handover I'll go and hand over to the maintenance guy right away Thank you for picking me up so late. Um Have you been waiting for a long time? Not long Are you unhappy? Is today not going well? smoothly and you Um Do you have anything to tell me? I should ask you this. I don't seem to have anything to say The chief of South China today is your brother Huai Chi Today, the South China Airport is your Huai Song Um It just so happens that Huaizhige is ranked behind you I see his route is very close to yours. Let him follow you. Bypassing the Apocalypse oh It's him I think it's quite clever too. They say I'm lucky. I think he has better luck. Never mind. If you are not happy, I will What will happen next? The Song of Nahuai I just think of him as a friend or a neighbor's brother. but You don't What's the difference? you You are my husband You are always the most special I remember this sentence. Oh, please drive. I'm sleepy. Mrs. Lee Listen to your command I fell asleep on the sofa before. You were the one who sent me here. Um You continue to rest. I'll go. Wait a moment Mrs. Z What are you doing? Uh, I, I, I just wanted to thank you. Your way of thanking you is very special I accepted it Your way of thanking you is very special I accepted it Even if I'm taking advantage of you. Are you sure You took advantage of me. You go wash up first. My friend is inviting us to dinner tomorrow night. good What do you want to eat? this And what else Um there is none left Thank you. Hey, look quickly Is this still a sub-chapter? Is there something wrong? From childhood to adulthood When has he ever been so considerate and caring to others? I haven't seen him treat us like this. Don't think I can't hear you just because you speak softly. You two grown men, don't compete with my wife. But you haven't told me yet How did you two start? Could it be that we fell in love in high school? You are curious, right? You don't know The girl who has been following Li Fuzheng since childhood One wins so much I know those ears that secretly like him I know better than anyone how popular he is. So you're not curious. There are so many girls who like him better than you. It's everywhere. Why did he choose you in the end? Why did he choose you in the end? Ning Yuxu, you're itchy again I want to be beaten again I'm not telling the truth. You have so many choices here. Why is it him? He's not bad though. Whatever the reason We choose to trust each other This is a fact No one can interfere You are quite open-minded. I have one last question. You married Li Fuzheng because you liked him Or are you attracted by his million-dollar annual salary? Is the identity of the civil aviation captain clear? Are you here to check your household registration or to do a relationship survey? What happened between me and Li Yue When will it be your turn to investigate the issue? I didn't say anything excessive. No need to ask no Li Yue is my wife Protected by me Apologize to him I'm sorry, I promise not to say this kind of nonsense again. Fu Zheng, I want to go home. good Three times the limit There will be next time At your own risk Walk Come try my soup Delicious Ning Yixu's story It's okay, I forgot about it. I promise there won't be a next time. Can you tell me about your high school days? Why do you ask? At that time I I only know that Xu Moti and his men will bully you. Not too sure about the others Because you protect me They don't dare to escalate. But they did a lot of nasty things before that. You think you can protect yourself by levying taxes Rest easy We won't bother you anymore. But from today No one talks to you No one cares about you Enjoy this taste Dream Moon, this is your life You'll never be better than me Can only be laughed at Being scorned You also like Li Fuzheng, right? So what do you think Is it possible that he would be attracted to you, who is like an ugly duckling? Stop wishful thinking. I'm doing pretty well now, aren't I? You are brave I was thinking if we had met earlier I mean blind date If it's earlier You won't marry me. Why do you think so? have no idea I just think it takes a suitable time. So if I say Will it? you mean Maybe it's after I met you that I feel It's time You think I'm lying? Of course not I just feel a little surprised Don't underestimate yourself in the dream moon You are far better than you think. Stop overthinking. Go to sleep quickly ah Why did you take a shower again? Didn't you just take a shower before going to bed? What do you think? How do I know? Hey Li Fuzheng Hmm, what happened to Li Fuzheng? Can I Can you do something Hey, I think Um It smells really good. Meng Liyue Meng Liyue please let me go first Well, I don't want I'm gonna hold you Do you know what you are doing? Meng Liyue, wait for me. When you pay me back What's wrong with your neck? Nothing, just got bit by something. There won't be any cockroaches or centipedes in our house, right? no That's good Do you need me to help you check? See clearly Um See clearly So what do you think this is? Um I don't know that I'm going to change my clothes and go to work. You also hurry up A plane passenger is waiting for you. Don't say anything to me before you leave. Well, then stay at the airport. Pray for peace Don't Delay Lend me your Madam Ji Yanli Zheng Ge finally came back on his fourth trip I'll contact Jingjing Management first. Synthesis Quiet Good Night Zhongnan 8861 Height 5,400 Listen to your command at G493 Hall in the south Zhongnan 8861 Synthetic Quiet Radar identification Standard pressure 5,100 Use the runway two buildings down right Standard atmospheric pressure 5,100 Runway 2, right south center 8861 Yuge Zhengge What is the situation Why are you so happy tonight? Hey Brother Yu What's going on, brother Zhen? Why are you so happy tonight? You ask me how I know Oh, Brother Yu You and Zhen Ge took the Benduo You must know it. If you want to know, ask Brother Zhen. Why are you like this? There's one last round. You may see me in the comments when you come back later. You're off work Wait, I'll pick you up now. He and the controller Yeah, that's what you thought. It turns out that what he said is true It was the controller who snatched Zhen Ge from him. Hey, are you two going to leave? I plan to spend the night on the plane Uh, go, go, go, go Today's wandering is so big You're doing well Thanks to your strictness back then I remember that I was just assigned to the Economics Department. You taught me a lot of knowledge. Where is there more? It's your own efforts Don't praise me I'm embarrassed Got the certificate Yeah Not long ago Is it the pilot who always picks you up? yes Congratulations Happy wedding get off work You came so fast Come over when you finish the finishing work This is not an introduction. This is not an introduction. Director Mu, my stupid teacher Director Mu has long admired you. I've heard a long time ago that Director Mu took good care of Li Yue. Thank you, I should Li Yue, is he my apprentice? That's nothing. I'll pick up Li Yue after get off work. Hey wait Director Mu also I have something to say Li Yue has been following me since he started working I watched him step by step to where he is now It's not easy for him to have today I hope you can take good care of him. Director Mu, please don't worry about this. Li Yue is my wife I will take good care of her. Walking Home What's wrong with you Are you unhappy? Once I came back, I didn't talk. ah You also said that the grave director was not interested in you I told him We got married That's pretty good. You are jealous What if I say I will? Don't be jealous. I'm weak. You are comforting me. Yeah, I don't want you to be jealous. I don't want you to be angry Um Unfortunately, I feel like this kiss isn't enough. Oh, I was thinking about taking this weekend off. Hiking and camping with friends This training is so difficult. Yeah, a little bit. You are so weird today. What are you thinking about? Um, no. Hey, I just realized you were wearing a ring Is this a wedding ring? Yes, a wedding ring. What does your husband do in January? He is a pilot Wow It has to be our Lin Yuejia so good Is this the co-pilot or the captain? Which airline? Maybe we all know each other. No, we have commanded it. That's fate. Hum, some people I'm glad I found the opportunity. Are you talking about me? Some people Clear in mind The youngest captain of China Southern Airlines How many women dream of marrying him? What a pity, my vision is so-so I heard what I heard Tell us now. Yeah, don't keep me in suspense. Okay, listen carefully. Some people act so innocent on weekdays. The means are powerful To climb high branches Even my own sister is not spared I snatched my husband from him. Even my own sister is not spared I snatched my husband from him. Oh, is this true? No way, don't say that. Li Yue is not like this This can It was said by the pilot of Central South Airlines. There can be fake Then you call the person to confront him face to face. Otherwise you are throwing dirty water on me Call me over here, I'm afraid of you Captain Zhang, you are here I'm just the co-pilot. Not the captain yet So what? It's all the same anyway Captain Zhang is my high school classmate We just talked about this while having dinner together. He told me the truth Dream of the Moon Do you admit that you stole your sister's boyfriend? My relationship with my husband There was never a third person. There is no such thing as me snatching it from him. Moti told me everything. You're still quibbling Your mother is a mistress. He once robbed his father You are like him I didn't expect Meng Liyu to be this kind of person. Yes, it is true that if the top beam is not straight, the bottom beam will be crooked. You and your mother were kicked out a long time ago. Your half sister is rich and beautiful Still a flight attendant If you hadn't used some tricks What can I compare with her? My mother is not a mistress Xu Mo mentioned his mother Stop trying to make excuses. You stay in the unit. It's really embarrassing for our controllers. Get out of here now. It's really embarrassing for our controllers. Get out of here right now. I just can't stand it. I came here specifically to expose your true colors Tou Chengge is the youngest person in the entire Central and Southern Airlines The most promising pilot His future is limitless You are such a scheming person How can you deserve him? You better get out of here as soon as possible I don't need outsiders to interfere in whether I am worthy of him. You are spreading rumors You said your mother wasn't a mistress You bring out the evidence. When my mother gave birth to me, she only had a wedding. No certificate Xu Mengtian changed his age again Become my half sister My mother will be slandered as a mistress There is no evidence now No one will believe you if you tell them That's a way to quibble. You just stole your sister's sweetheart. You've been jealous of her since you were a kid, right? Meng Liyue really didn't expect you to be this kind of person It's bad luck to be your sister If you still have a conscience Just give the real brother back to him They are a pair In the first month, you tell Moti I didn't let him come here in person to expose Meng Liyue's hypocrisy. Meng Liyue, you are finished I brought it over I see how you can argue. I advise you to tell the whole story honestly. Then offered to resign I advise you to tell the whole story honestly. Then offered to resign Don't think I don't know You're targeting me. Because Director Mu won the title of this year's outstanding controller You gave me a grudge, right? So what? You are not clean You can't blame others for targeting you. Moti, you are here Tell everyone quickly The disgusting things Meng Linyue did Meng Liyue meets again You must be scared to see me now. Why should I be afraid? Of course you're afraid that I'll expose you. Things I haven't done I will never admit it Don't try to slander Show me the evidence. My age is older than yours according to my ID card. Your mother took advantage of my mother's pregnancy with me. I sneaked in secretly. I'll have to wait until I find evidence for this matter. I will naturally explain it to everyone As for whether I snatched Li Fuzheng from you You know it in your heart I have the New Year in my hands. Photos of our Xu and Li families' family dinner You weren't married at that time. How else do you want to argue? You can't make excuses anymore. Get out of here! Dream Moon Li Yue, I don't believe you are this kind of person. Come up with the evidence and explain it to everyone Stop struggling. If you can provide evidence Today I kneel down and kowtow to you three times Since you are so willing Let's show you a play Then I really need some evidence. Then I really need some evidence. snort Do you still have this video? See? This video was shot by Li Fuzhen He has been protecting me since high school. How can I say I've been with you for a long time? He was just bored. Just take a random shot I didn't take you to heart at all Just a video from more than ten years ago What can it explain? Originally, our two families were in Linyin. If you hadn't suddenly intervened with the kite How can I marry you? Just right I have a dinner date with a very important person today. I'll call him over now and tell everyone the truth. Who did you date? You will soon know Aunt Li, why are you here? Let me introduce you This is Fu Zheng's mother The mother of that chapter is here. Meng Liyue, just get out of here this time. Aunt Li, you look younger again I'll take you to the beauty salon later. How about it As long as I fool around Aunt Li must be on my side Today I'm going to make Meng Liyue lose face Yueyue, come to mommy's side soon I'd like to see Who dares to bully my daughter-in-law today? Who dares to bully my daughter-in-law today? Mom, he told everyone He had already discussed marriage with Li Fuzheng I grabbed it. Aunt Li is like this. I remember my mother specifically told you This was indeed said. Dream Moon Did you hear that? Stop making excuses. Just admit it honestly. You're the kind of bitch who loves to steal someone else's heart. I heard that he is the chairman of Lux Group. Worth 10 billion? It's really amazing Aunt Li, since you have already testified for me Telling everyone the truth So when did I testify for you? Don't you have any? But you just said My mother was I did tell you I did mention Fu Zheng's marriage. But neither I nor my son have any intention So I rejected it at that time. What didn't you say before? Am I your favorite daughter-in-law? That was before I met Yueyue He is such a kind and gentle daughter-in-law That's what I want But he clearly Just buy it Madam, do you use WeChat or Alipay? Sorry, there's no power. Don't buy it yet Auntie, how about I pay for you first? Okay, thank you. Girl, are you in love? No, no, that's fine. No talk is good oops The first time I saw Yueyue I knew she must be my daughter-in-law. So I tried to investigate his identity. So I arranged a blind date between him and my son. As for you What are you and your mother planning to do to our Li family? Don't think I don't know Well, now the truth is out. It's Xu Moti who is slandering Who just said that as long as we find evidence He kowtowed three times to our Li Yue I am talking nonsense Hurry up and don't let us look down on you I will never forgive those who slander me. I know I'm wrong I won't dare to do it again Xu Motie, you've been using me. I want you to be the captain because of you I will hate you forever I'm sorry, I'm so stupid. I need Captain Li to take the blame. The truth about Xu Moti's case is already here How are you going to make amends to me? What do you want? Yeah, simple Hold up a sign apologizing to me Standing downstairs in the office for an afternoon I will forgive you Don't go too far. I'm overdoing it Mom, why don't we go find his company leader? Hey, don't. Can't I just do it? Fell asleep No I heard about what happened today. Why didn't you tell me You'll be back sooner or later anyway. Feel sorry You don't have to say sorry to me I have never had any relationship with Xu Moti. My mother had that intention at first. But I rejected it in the end. Why do you want to marry me? I said it's time Hey Stop making trouble Hello Huaizhi Pavilion I just came back from Melbourne Are you free tonight? Get together, I got off aunt together Um There should be See you tomorrow night Um ah Why is it him again? Um My mother went with me. I want to be together You're not tomorrow night I received a sudden notification that the flight was cancelled. All right I don't think you really want me to go. No, I'm just afraid of you. fine snort tomorrow I will definitely get to know this new friend well. Why are you the only one here, auntie? She's busy and can't come. It doesn't matter, we are the same Well, it's still the same as before. Try something new Same old thing. good Where is Chen Lifuzhong? Why haven't you come back yet? Xiaolin, there is something in your car I helped you get rid of it. Why have you been gone for so long and haven't come back yet? Do you like what you just bought? like No introduction Yes, this is Lou Huaizhi I have nothing to do with you. It doesn't matter Hello Mr. Lou Hello Come and try it. How does it taste? It's ok but not as delicious as mine. You don't have time to cook. Whenever you want to eat Any time I heard that Mr. Lou is also a pilot. What model? Boeing 777 Airbus 330 You two are natural rivals. I hope my mother and Uncle Luo can get along well. Live happily Yes Look, there is a Boeing passenger plane How do you know it's Boeing? Because of his flashing lights. He was flashing If it's an Airbus, it will flash twice. Will he drive a Boeing or an Airbus in the future? Who I like He will soon become the The best pilot But it's still far away I don't know if there's a chance One day I can land just for him If any I'll say welcome home to him. I thought I was a pilot. I can confess to you But it still can't beat the importance of this person in your heart I heard Yueyue say that you took good care of her before. Thank you very much It's okay, just treat me as your sister. Should The people in Lou Huai are very nice. No need for anything Don't be jealous Meng Liyue what You've been watching me See what happened You can't look at me yet Sure, who made me your husband? Tell me what you want to see Guaranteed to satisfy you Tell me what you want to see Guaranteed to satisfy you You can see everything Anything is fine Abdominal muscles Or look at other What's so good about your abdominal muscles? How about it It's OK Size is OK I haven't touched anyone else's Who else do you want to see? Luo Huazhi Of course not Not the best Moon Moon I told you before we got married Let things take their natural course after marriage do you remember Yes, I remember Let it be We've been together for so long We should all know each other well enough. I think our relationship can go further. I don't need to be nervous I just proposed this option. You can start thinking about it now Until you are ready I want to ask if there is one at home. Is it too late to order takeout now? Should be in time Then you buy it. I won't pick I um what's wrong I I won't either What are you doing It's ok, you go to sleep first Okay, you should rest early too. Oh, remember to buy it. This kind of embarrassing thing will never happen a second time I'm exhausted after a day's work. Why don't you open it first? He should have bought it. I heard that it can be determined based on that what for No Looking for something? What to look for Bought so much I don't know which one is better. Just buy them and try them slowly Hello What What's wrong Li Fucheng, can you accompany me to the hospital? My grandma is dying. Although my father no longer cares about us But grandma has always been very good to us. Later my father married that woman Grandma came to see me secretly But once he found out, he made a scene at Xu's house Grandma never came to see me again. Don't be afraid, Yueyue We are going to the hospital now to see grandma for the last time Yueyue, go see your grandma. I won't go over. Mom, I'll take Yueyue in. Um Go ahead Meng Lingyue, why are you here? Is this where you should be? Get out of the way You changed your last name a long time ago. You are no longer a member of our Xu family You are not allowed to mess around here, get out of here Yueyue's surname is not Xu But the elders in the ward He has an unchangeable blood relationship with me. His grandmother wants to see him. You'd better not stop me It's you, Fu Zhao this Come in Why How to let him in? Don't give him another chance to curry favor with Lao Tan. He has the blood of the Xu family in his veins. A dying old woman What waves can be made? If Meng Liyue wants to see him, just let him go. As soon as he left What else can I do? If Moti wasn't here, I'm afraid I won't get any property. Already flown abroad I can't come back anyway. Not all old ladies like him. It's okay if you're not here It's fine without him. Anyway The Xu family's assets are all in the hands of his father. Nor do I expect How much inheritance can an old lady have? Why The person waiting over there looks familiar. OK Do you still have the guts to come here? Should I? Should I? He wants to rekindle his past relationship with my husband. I'm going to take care of you today. You think Xiao San Can you pretend nothing happened after you take over? I'm too lazy to argue with you It doesn't mean you have the right to stand before me. Tell me, are you here to steal my husband? Who wants that kind of garbage? Only a gutter bug like you Will like it Watch me deal with you But you have to take action I want to see if he dares to hit me today. If you want to continue the Xu family's business Apologize immediately This is someone from the Li family. This Meng Mingyue is really capable Climbing up such a high branch! It's not that the Xu family doesn't dare to provoke He Huixian I can only admit defeat My grandmother left me a legacy before she passed away. Legacy Ouch All the money from my mother's family is in my husband's hands What could he have? Oh, it won't happen. It was he who built the house on the hill that was about to collapse. I'll give it to you. Ha ha ha ha I don't even want a house if you give it to me. Ouch He probably hasn't seen anything valuable. I treasured that Zen. Hahaha, grandma said it was a villa in Xianhu Lake Where do you say Where is Star Lake Villa? Did I hear that correctly? Star Lake A villa of several hundred square meters costs at least 20 million How can the old lady have so much money? Even if there is, it's really generous. Left it all to him. Impossible Impossible The old lady said That doesn't count The old lady must be confused. Isn't that nonsense? How is it possible? Mom is not here When you don't know Grandma has already found a notary office I will be contacted soon. Are there any other abnormalities? What about Modi? I haven't heard mom say that. Your mother is really biased. Isn't Modi his granddaughter? Why did he give the villa to Menglin Hospital? Hurry and bring it back to me Go and get it back for me right now. Never heard of it. Besides, my mother usually saves money. She can give money to whoever she wants. No, no matter what, it has to be divided equally between ink. We must not let this little bitch Mo Lvye Get the villa Why Stop messing around Our mother just left So many people Can we talk about this in two days? Can you please let me save some energy? You said I was kidding? You say I'm kidding You wrote the play. Did you make him up? Hahaha You'd rather go now Leave this to me Xu Dajin, take care of your family affairs If they mess with my daughter again I won't be polite to them. Xu Dajin, ask them to come back to me My Villa My Villa 20 million villa I never thought my grandma would give me so much Grandma always has you in her heart That woman is mad. How could she think of Grandma left me all her inheritance. Ignore them for now. What? Moon Moon I said I want to go further with you. No joke Yeah, I've thought about it too. I know the commitment I'm making now It seems like they want to get you But what needs to be said must be said I will respect your choice I will respect your response Li Fuzheng I trust you Don't be afraid Leave it to me Wait, in that drawer. rest assured I'm not overdoing anything Moon Moon Once you sign for it, there will be no chance to regret it. I don't believe that I'm the only one who can fly in the whole synthesis Captain Li, it's summer travel season now Fully operational Last year, the company met the operating qualifications Please help me A whole plane is waiting. There's really no one here now. Wait. Why did you wake up so early? Are you feeling uncomfortable? Go without you I'm waiting for you at home Not at all It seems that I am not good enough. Also in Oh no. All right I'm coming now Today, please note The high temperature updraft turbulence index of the route is 10 And then there is the weather. Baby Yeah What's wrong Wait till I come back Yeah, happy and peaceful Waiting for you to come back You are back Husband Husband You are back I came back smoothly. No delays Um Oh Sunny Day When I landed, I met you at Huai's mouth Don't you like him very much? I'm not happy every time I see him. Oh, you always call him brother. I don't have this treatment. But I call you husband. That's what I'll call it tonight. oh tell me who I am husband ah Nie Fuzheng, hurry up I'm going to be late Oops, hurry up. If you want me to let go, you should scream first. Yeah, who am I? How many times have I said it last night? Do you still want to get up? husband Go wash up. Um Oh yeah Take me to work immediately. I'm gonna be late You sleep on the sofa tonight Good, I obey Hey, you were in such a hurry when you came this morning. Overslept No, what's going on? I'll take a look. I feel good today. It's almost time to hand over The plane has just been handed over. There are new flights coming in. Hello, Qingqing. Zhongnan 6919 Height 2,400 Listen to your command Why Your husband Central South 6919 Hecheng went inside and saw two buildings on the left of the runway. Height below 2,100 Height below 2,100 Runway 2 Building, South Left 6919 Zhongnan 6919 A bird was spotted on the runway today. Serious flight backlog Now there is no gap on the 5 sides Waiting for notification of specific time How long do we have to wait? I want to go home early to accompany my wife Zhongnan 6919 Zhou Nan 6919 A bird was spotted on the runway today. Serious flight backlog Now there is no gap on the 5 sides Waiting for notification of specific time Okay, I'll listen to you. Height below 2,100 Speed two holes Zhounan 6919 There are 5 minutes left in this round. Good to know Yeah, that's really good. Hey, I want to apply for early landing. Who is the pilot who went home to be with his wife? Which airline? Such a blatant display of affection I know who it is Guess what? Rosie Lee Moon It seems like you were in the seat just now. Which airline is coming? I remember it was China Southern Airlines It can't be your husband, right? Is there a share for me? You didn't say you were hungry. I've given up so quickly. I won't even eat a bowl of noodles. Oh, okay, okay. Have your share My wife is so nice Um, what is this? The salary card will be kept with you from now on. You know the nature of my job. There are frequent international flights Four or five days away from home You will need to handle many things in the future. It hurts your face Um I accepted the salary card. Give you pocket money every month Nice to hear my wife When do you fly internationally? Well, I'm flying to London the day after tomorrow. oh good Reluctant Reluctant I will miss you Then you go wash it. I'll pack your luggage. Nie Fuzhong may never know How many memories of him are hidden here? What are you doing No oh But I clearly saw There's really nothing Hello, husband Why are you calling now? Aren't you coming back? Weather reasons Flight cancelled Oh, I see. So, we have to wait one more day. Okay, I still miss you, I miss you, I miss you What else do you want? You lied to me Um Are you happy? Yeah, happy Um I miss you so much I miss you as well Um Oh, my wife. Um Except that I miss you very much I miss you too Um Mom asked me to go camping this afternoon. Do you want to join us? sure Um Mom is really into camping lately. Really? How come I don't know? Look at his circle of friends. You care too little about your mother. He has a pretty good life. Live a more fulfilling life than us Yes, later. We need to accompany them more. Dream Moon Why so serious? Scare me You haven't posted me in your Moments I don't usually update these. The last time you had dinner with your colleagues, That's because a colleague wanted to remove it. My mistake. I'll post it now. When was it filmed? You haven't been secretly in love with me for a long time. No, I haven't. I just took this two days ago Really not? Do you still want to send it? Just post this one Um Hey what? I won't delete it. in case So childish No matter how childish he is, he is still your husband Hahaha, such nice weather. We should go out for an outing Haha, let's go pick flowers. I'll take a photo with Yueyue later. Okay, son, I'll leave this to you. Okay, let's go first. Haha, the weather is really nice My wife didn't stay long enough I'll go to the car. Wait for me for a moment Come back soon oops These two kids I'm doing pretty well now. As a mother, I feel relieved. Yes, but you raise a boy. Why don't you worry as much as I do about raising a girl? How come? Yueyue is so well-behaved and obedient Hey, what do you have to worry about? You don't know Yueyue. What's hidden in my heart I was secretly happy very early I can't like it The secret that Yueyue had a crush on Fu Zheng I can't speak for him. Anyway, at that time I'm just afraid that he'll be sad and fall in love too early Fortunately, Fu Zheng is married to him now, hahaha Oh, they are together. I am very satisfied Really good Where have you been? I've been waiting for you for a long time He didn't bring enough. I borrowed it from someone else. This is for you So beautiful If you like it, take it home Um I don't know who did the shit. I can actually get his love Who was the man he had a crush on? It doesn't matter, it was him in the past I didn't keep my heart I won't be sad just because of this. Month by month by month by month hahaha oh hey Mom, you're back. Wow, you have flowers here too. me me me Grilled hahahaha Come come come Camping is good It's just too physically demanding. I'll give you a massage. no Every massage to the end Don't think I don't know what bad ideas you have. Yeah What are you talking about? Chat with my friends Can I see it? No, it's a topic for girls to talk about. I can't be with you guys. Are they talking about something shameful? Um, no. Oh, then it must be behind my back. What kind of wild man are you chatting with? Then he must be carrying me. What kind of wild man are you chatting with? No, I haven't. Just chatting with friends How many abdominal muscles do men have? Okay, stop talking. I will be back very late tomorrow to accompany me Um What do you want to talk about? It will be all right Then let's talk about Have you ever encountered any weird passengers on a plane? Can my wife change to someone else instead of talking about work? So what do you want to talk about? He has suddenly become so beautiful recently I still don't like it very much Talk about what happened to you in the past What happened to me before? Um For example, you are in college Have you ever had a boy you liked? Uh no No? Um Zhongfeiyuan should not be short of boys. How come I haven't met the right girl yet? To become a controller you have to work 10 times harder I don't have the time Who made our Yueyue a top student? Um And you You never liked girls when you were in college. No I will be abroad I just want to release the order as soon as possible. Tight flight time No time for love Um So we are almost there. If there is no university, what about high school? Did you have a crush on a guy in high school? Well I Sure enough, he had a crush on someone else before. But in the end, nothing happened Who was I at that time? Even he can't do it. I don't like it. If you really like it, it's none of my business. Oh, man, I didn't I I Um You have an early shift? don't worry Your husband is energetic enough. Are you choosing a watch for your husband? Um But this shop is so expensive The unit price is more than 100,000 yuan Well, your husband's salary card is with you. Meng Liyue, long time no see I heard you married Li Fuzheng Pretty Woman Life is pretty happy now. Who is this? Do you know him? Meet Bear Moti A dog beside I like to charge into battle with him. Just barking You're marrying a pilot? So what? My boyfriend is a pilot of China Airlines. Your boyfriend is a pilot. What's your name? Sit on the left or on the right Hey, don't be a co-pilot who just joined the airline. What is sitting left and sitting right? Anyway, he is Baby, don't you want a watch? I'm walking you around. Please come quickly You guys wait My boyfriend is coming soon snort Baby, tell them. Are you also a pilot of China Airlines? Who are they? How dare you doubt my identity? That's not Marrying a pilot is a big deal. Don't get acquainted with them. Maybe they have never seen any captain at all. Well, I'm bragging to you. Say we are bragging You don't know Li Yue's husband But Li Fuzheng, the youngest captain of Central South Airlines What Do you know Li Fuzhou? You look nervous. Aren't you a pilot at all? How is it possible? Meng Liyue, stop slandering me Is this slander? You can find out by checking the internal system. Yeah, that How about we go first? What can't go I have to let them know today You too Coincidentally, my husband will pick me up in a while. Whether it is a pilot or not will be clear soon. Oh yeah Remind you If you pretend to be a pilot, you will be prosecuted. I'm not a pilot. I'm pretending What you lied to me Then you asked me for 500,000 Help me arrange a job at Zhongda Airlines It's also fake That's all the money I borrowed. You give me back, you give me back, I give you back Alas, it's really a case of losing the rice while trying to steal the chicken. 18-year-old Mengmeng Bullied you in the past Now it has become like this And you'll only get better Why hasn't he come back tonight? Wife You don't love me Why don't I love you? You didn't leave the light on for me tonight Is it that serious? It was just on. It should be broken Seriously, this means you don't have heat stroke Who told you last night Yeah I'm sorry. I was wrong. I admit my mistakes very quickly every time. I never know what's going on with you. I've been thinking today Why are you suddenly like this? Wife, don't leave me I will definitely not leave you This is your promise If you break your promise I'm on the radio frequency condemning you for abandoning Am I that serious? Yes, the captain's condemnation Why is that photo so weird lately? Hey, brother, you are here Um Something Zheng Ge Do you know that someone is trying to steal your girlfriend? What did you say Oh, there is a captain from another airline. I've been asking about my sister-in-law recently. I heard that it happened in the channel two days ago. Sister-in-law directed him around the weather Then he wanted to pursue my sister-in-law Of course, it's possible that I heard it wrong. Who doesn't have eyes? We got married Mainly because we are not on the same airline There are always some people who are not well-informed. How about I help you find out who he is? No That's not right, Brother Zhang. This isn't like you. You and your sister-in-law are so close If other men look at you, you will explode What happened today? It's not needed anymore Want to steal my corner It also depends on whether my wife pays attention to him. Um Overestimating one's capabilities Huh, that's what I said. How could I not care? If you have nothing to do, go out first Okay Wake up Well, I just went downstairs to pick up a package. What express delivery Oh, I just bought a dress. Sent the wrong size I'll change it tomorrow. What clothes It's not what you think. I haven't said anything yet. Honey, how do you know what I'm thinking? Um I'm so annoyed. I'm hanging up. etc. Is there something you haven't told me recently? No oh If you go back, you're done. I found the captain's contact information. I pushed you. Um Why don't you bring your wife along when I invite you to dinner? Oh, you won't hate me anymore. She's on late shift today so she can't come over No wonder our powerful captain finally showed his favor Hum, just talk about our group of friends How long have you not been together since you got married? Are you guys more important or is my wife more important? Self-humiliation There is also early morning What effect does it have on him now? I'll leave in half an hour. It should be just right How long have you been married? How does it feel like time has passed? People ask you how you are But so This restaurant is so awful I can't bring it directly to Yueyue You're so nice to ask me how I am? I'm leaving first. You continue Didn't eat Why There won't be any problems between Mr. Fu and his wife, right? Don't talk nonsense, it might be bad. There's a real problem. Did Fu Zheng really tell you this? ha good I just knew it How could Fu Zheng like Meng Mingyue? That bitch He stole the man I liked. And I stole my grandma's inheritance I'm not done with him this time. Please come today I have something to say. Meng Liyue didn't expect you to have the courage to come. I'm afraid you'll be a coward. What am I afraid of? You said it all I want to tell you something very important about me. Of course I'll come and listen Although Fu Zhengfei is abroad today, he is not in China. But it doesn't matter I can still tell you You told him this Moti, this could be a misunderstanding. Well, now you're turning against me and not helping me No problem But Fu Zheng said it himself It can't be a misunderstanding. What did he say? He said Your marriage to him is just like this. Everyone present that day heard it. Dream Moon You are a joke In his eyes you are nothing Even if he said it, what would happen? Without Lijia to support you behind your back You are just an ant that can be crushed to death at any time but You just need to kneel down and kowtow to me now. Announcement of leaving River City Maybe I can still let you go Did you hear that, Meng Liyue? Otherwise you won't know how you died. Chen Ranguang, you are here too I brought you a gift today. What gift? I heard that you found a boyfriend who is two floors older than you. Coincidentally, I invited his wife as well. It's you, right? You bitch How dare you seduce my husband? See how I teach you a lesson Somebody get them out of here. Don't disturb my good time here Ah Roger I'm so good to you You actually treated me like this I really misjudged You've been with me for so long. Isn't it just for my Xu family's resources? Take care of your own affairs. Now I am free I'll teach you slowly. Now I am free Teach you slowly No hurry before you teach me a lesson I have something to say too I lived here until I was 5 years old. Nothing has changed in all these years. You're so arrogant, this is me false How could a mistress live here? This is the evidence your friend found. Prove your age has been changed Proof that my mother had a de facto marriage with Xu Dejin first And you and your mother are the ones who should correct the magpie's nest Are you kidding? Don't try to fool me with these things. Mo Ti This evidence was given to me by Fu Zheng. I hired someone to investigate. It can't be fake. Ning Yixue Are you trying to team up with Meng Liyuan to deceive me? There's no way I'll be fooled Then you ask her. Liyuan You tell her Did you cheat first? Abandoned me and my mother dad I am the real eldest daughter of the Xu family. He must be lying, right? Mo Men said that Xu's business has plummeted. Almost going bankrupt I decided to tell the truth. Yu Yue, I am sorry for you and your mother. I'm too selfish. I Li Yuan, can you forgive your father? The reason you apologize Because the Xu family is going bankrupt Now I can only ask Li's family for help. Only then can the Xu family be revived. Li Yuan's father knew he was wrong Please give me another chance. Dad knows he's wrong. Give me another chance once I have hoped countless times that you can change your mind Because you are my father after all. I've changed my mind. I will treat you and your mother well. Finished I am no longer that silly little girl. I no longer believe I don't trust scum like you You give daddy one more kiss Okay? Motimoti Your father wants to divorce me He said He said he regretted it. He has no money. He's gonna abandon us. He wants to go back Mom, you've been lying to me all these years. right I am deceiving you Mentor Relying on my shamelessness You have the wealth and glory for so many years. Mentor My brother's family went bankrupt No way, how could I be the daughter of a mistress? How what You look down on me I tell you If I hadn't tried so hard to snatch you away You still have dignity right So what? Dad, you can't ask him. Fu Zhen no longer loves him I wish I could get Fu Zhen back Meng Lingyuan, this is a joke We promised Our Xu family can still be saved Who told you The Xu family is excellent Who told you Killing countless Fight for you I knew you would come. You tell Meng Lingyue You don't love her at all You said it yourself. Your feelings are just like this Aren't you tired of our marriage? Then you go find her Who said I was bored? Sorry, wife. It's all my fault But you have to listen to my explanation about Yao Chuan's matter today. You can't just sentence me to death. I'd like to see how you explain it. Fu Zheng Since you don't like him anymore Just divorce him. Stay with me With Lijia Our Xu family will soon return to its peak Then our two powerful forces will join forces. What are you doing Blue Sky Daydream What Who told you I'm getting engaged to Yueyue You obviously All I was thinking about at the time was bringing midnight snacks to Yueyue I thought they were asking me about that store. How does it taste? Honey, I'll take you there and you'll know. The taste of the store Ning Yixu chose is real It's really hard to eat I later took a 5-kilometer detour. Go buy you a midnight snack I'm sitting here with you You wronged me. you go Li Fuzheng, what can I say about you? Wife You have to trust me Then you solve them first. What happened today will not happen again Start Today All the Xu family's businesses will be shut out. Finished All finished The Xu family's business is all gone. As for you? Xu Mengting Stop wishful thinking In my heart from beginning to end, there is only Yue Yun You don't have to worry about China Southern Airlines. A moral loser like you People of low character China Southern Airlines does not need How did you treat Yue Yun before? How will I treat you in the future? Slowly suffer Fu Zhe, I was wrong You can't do this to me And you Aren't you coveting the Xu family's assets? From now on, you and Xu Dejin will share the Xu family's debts. You are trying to kill me Wife For such treatment Are you satisfied? Barely satisfied Then come home with me Um Is it good? Let's go Honey, didn't you say you forgave me? Why are you still ignoring me? Oh, didn't I tell you? I have an exam soon Don't bother me Then I'll just stand here and not say anything. Oh no You standing here will affect me Okay, okay, be good. Um good Okay, I'll go to my study. Feed the horse wedding date picked out Hey mom, have you picked out a wedding date? Not on National Day Usually Yueyue and I are very busy during holidays. End of October You are on the phone Um Finished What's up baby? Well, I'm going out for a while. Where to go Brother Huaizhi asked me out Why is it him again? He's not still targeting you, is he? He said he had something important to tell me. Busy reviewing Don't accompany me, call me Go out and meet your brother. Oh, good. Okay, stop being jealous, okay? Then you can take me there, okay? Go back and have fun. Come back soon I hope you and him live happily. Finished chatting Go back, Li Yue Can I be alone with him? Okay Is there anything else you want to talk to me about? I used to think As long as I can become a good pilot I thought I might like you You're overthinking yes I really thought too much. No matter how unwilling I am, there is no other way. Good to know Yueyue will only like me If you knew that Li Yue has always had someone who loves you Will you still be so confident? You were acting weird when you came back today What did you say to Brother Huaizhi? Want to know Don't tell You have work tomorrow Take a break now Um Did Bi Fusheng misunderstand something? If you put the deeds Can he come? The car is his. Maybe this is a trap Hate me when visiting snort I won't be fooled Li Fuzheng, you have been flying for 4 consecutive days. Not taking a good rest What are you going to do? You will know later Count three numbers in your mind Are you ready? I don't want to let things take their own course anymore But it is certain A permanent relationship between you and me Please ask Miss Control you will you marry me Wife, you Won't you give me a hard time? I don't need Because you have always been my greatest ideal When is the wedding? Now it seems that the most appropriate time is the end of October If you need to change the time don't want Just don't change I can't wait Sincerely become Li Fuzheng's bride Scare me Come on, come on Scare me Who made you so focused? What are you doing? Preparing time for wedding photo shoot You still need to invite me Need to decide the venue There are many things to do I'm finally going to marry you yes The girl who secretly liked you for 10 years I'm finally going to marry you Oh yeah You put in the list of guests you want to invite Prepare that. You're good at entrusting Teacher Cui also made that person diligent Let him take a good look We don't care now mom What's wrong Yueyue? Please tell me the date of the wedding this afternoon I posted a circle of friends My neighbor Uncle Wei and his family were also planning to come over. Well, they haven't seen each other for many years since they moved. I played with his son when I was a kid. Hahahaha yeah They still have the videos you took when you were little. I asked his son to add you on WeChat Just sent to you OK Dream Donkey You're going to divorce me if you find your secret crush Right? You're going to divorce me if you find your secret crush Yes or no No What's so good about him? You still miss him after all these years. You see for yourself. When I was in high school, I was thinking about studying flying abroad. Become a pilot I don't have the heart to think about anything else I didn't like you I'm blind I already regret it Wang Ningyue Please don't divorce me. You read my diary. I didn't look at those books. If you remember It's all about you and your crush. I burned all the books. How do you know I had a crush on someone? I have my own way You don't think you're hiding well, do you? Then you won't watch it. Don't watch Well, if you say so This is how you cry You hate me How come? I clearly am Especially like Snow Don't divorce me Who said I want to divorce you? No, I just saw it. The word divorce is so obvious Hmm, so this is how you use the 2.0 vision of the aircraft manager See for yourself Have you finished filming, husband? I took it away after the photo was taken. Um Come and eat How's your wedding suit selection going? Well enough You won't let me see if I look good in it. snort Anyway, he's more handsome than your crush. How do you know that? Um No chance You can only like me Okay, okay, I only like you How tall is your crush? He's quite tall. Do I have to choose high heels? When the leather shoes are ready, they will be 1.9 meters tall I don't believe that person is taller than me. What are you thinking about, husband? Um No meal Was the person you liked before your childhood sweetheart? Um We broke up not long after we met. I don't think so. During the three years of high school, Li Fuzhen and I became famous They really can't be called childhood sweethearts. It's easy to follow if you're not a childhood sweetheart Hey, husband that Together That's fine. Um Tell me who is better first Very good, I will use practical actions to prove that only I Actually, I have never had a crush on anyone. What I'm coming back tonight Let me tell you the truth about the diary What are you doing? I'm too late. What is it Tell me now I've asked you several times. Do you want to read the diary? You don't blame yourself I can That's settled. Tell me when you come back May you have a safe journey, Mr. Li See you in the evening Visibility is relatively high today Other users will have more activities When the two holes landed again Remember to remind the crew not to change course to the east of the lake. There is also a tower notification There is a lot of bird activity at the entrance of Runway Hole. We are increasing our efforts to repel birds But we must always be prepared Prepare for the possibility of crew return Well, that's it for today's meeting. Is everyone clear? It's clear. It's all clear. Adjournment Hey, Li Yue's wedding date has been set. I want to go, too. But I seemed to be at work that day Who among you doesn't want to go? Change it with me. I'm really looking forward to that day It must be fun No one wants to change with you. I'm looking forward to it too. Let's go. Brother Zheng is checking the news about his sister-in-law. Smiling so happily Tell him to go home early Our flight takes off in an hour. You can hurry back just in time to pick up your sister-in-law from get off work. Get ready ladies and gentlemen Please confirm that your seat belt is fastened again Fasten The phone is in airplane mode Provisioning is turned off Thanks Prepare for the descent Inform the cabin to prepare Okay years of chicken Oh my god, what's going on? What is the situation Is the plane broken down? Flight attendant Flight attendant Is Junge a bird plane? It shouldn't be a bird plane. The bird will have a very obvious flavor burnt Now Fire alarm Engine failure warning Will we die? Officer's left valve failed Don't be nervous Shut down the left engine good Slow withdrawal Slow withdrawal Confirm one shot shutdown Confirmed one-shot shutdown Fire extinguisher No. 1 released Release fire extinguisher No. 1 The fire alarm is gone. Height: 7,700 Flame test Spray spray spray Two batches of Zhongnan 856 are invalid Apply for a height of 6,600 Hainan's five-county decline rate is 1,500 Purification height Waiting for the flight Southern 6949 Synthetic Athletics Radar saw a drop to 2,700 Sea pressure 1,028 Just now, Zhongnan 856 called Panpan At this time, the altitude is decreasing. Approximately 20 minutes later Please direct other aircraft to avoid obstacles. OK, I know Zhongnan 856 liang Your husband Husband, before you entered my mountain area I will open up the fastest way for you The safest approach route Please be safe Will the plane explode? Will I die? Never mind, I'll wash the salt first. How many cats are there at home My cat is my greatest asset. I have to ask someone to take care of them for me. Dear Passengers, Our plane had a little mechanical problem. The plane has now stabilized. We will ensure everyone's safety ladies and gentlemen This is the cabin announcement. This is the airport for this flight The aircraft failure has been handled according to procedures Expected to land at Hecheng Airport in 10 minutes Please trust me and I will bring you back to the ground safely. Brother Zhen should contact Jingjing for control Synthetic Quiet Zhongnan 856 liang Height 5,100 Listen to your command Zhongnan 856 liang Synthetic Quiet Don't worry, look Run to the pillar group Height 3,600 Run to the Pillar Group 3,600 Zhongnan 856 liang Zhongnan 856 liang If you have any questions, please let me know I know you now From now on I will point out the day of the National People's Congress for you Make sure we can hear any of your needs at any time And responded to Li Fuchun Please come back safely. Thank you Zhongnan 856 When I chose this career The day I first sat in the command seat I have looked forward to countless times to be obsessed with ups and downs Sailing home this time We will do our best Chongnan 856 Liang Xi'an repairs 2,700 oceans and turns left Dongwudongxia Corrected sea pressure 2,700, turn left Zhongnan 856 Zhongnan 856 liang Heading to Hole 15 Can blindly land Two groups of advance Intercept the blind road The localizer has captured two Zhongnan 856 Zhongnan 856 liang Prepare to contact tower 1 Three-point hole Is there anything else you need help with? I have a question for Zhou Nan 856 I know what he wants to ask It's just our tacit understanding Zhounan 856 liang It's you The one hidden in the diary I never thought that one day I would see Tianming appear A lifelong wish Central South 8560 radar service terminated Contact Synthetic Tower 183 Preparing for landing Brother Zhen, we are safe now Husband Husband ah When did you come? It's been a while Are you okay? I'm so worried about you fine Brother Zheng, do you want to envy me to death? Yes, Captain Li Please be considerate of us lonely people. There's no way. Why Let's talk about our business first Um It's too late today. No, I have to make it clear today. Please repeat what you said in your comment. Didn't you hear it all? But I just want to hear you say it again I said That person is you Wife Is it fun to play tricks on me? Oh, that person is obviously me It also caused me to have skin on my belly button every day. The answers are in the diary You don't see it yourself Wife Why is it me? Because you are me I was at that time I only like you Hey, wife You know, with an 18-year-old who likes What's it like to meet someone? Every day is an unexpected surprise I think I am the happiest person in the world You are the most special thing to me fortunately Fortunately, nothing happened today Otherwise I will Isn't this good? I promised you that I would come back safely. You have to trust your husband Um Wife Can you show me your diary? I put it there for you to see. Go and have a look September 13, 2012 High School is so strange Every student feels very friendly In addition to Xu Moti Why did I meet him in high school? Still a companion I will always hate him October 5, 2012 I made a new friend happy Xu Muzhi seems to have no time to bother me October 30, 2012 Xu Moti Maybe he likes the middle school affiliated to our class. She's pretty. He is tall Only a few days into school There are many girls in junior high school Peeping at her at the door of our class June 5, 2013 I came here today Didn't go to gym class But I met Li Fuzheng He came back to get the basketball may be Look how miserable I am. Asked me if I needed help This seems to be the first time I talk to him I feel like he's pretty good. May 5, 2014 Thank you Li Fuchun I will always remember this day June 3, 2014 Yu Fuzhou's dream is to be a pilot I'm so afraid of heights What kind of job will I do? After graduation There is also a chance to see him again. June 20, 2014 I just found out today There is a profession called air traffic controller If I could take this job Maybe I can meet him one day in the future? sorry Why are you saying this for no reason? I don't know what happened to you in the past Wife I'm honored To have this kind of weight in your life Then you must cherish me After all, in this world I only like you Always like you From start to finish There's not one in my eyes If you miss it We will be together forever Have you thought about it? We will face all the future together Wife Seeking Truth There's something I've always wanted to tell you. For me The most special meaning of air traffic control Return from 30,000 feet Please let me take you home Wow marvelous