(audience laughing) - Sorry I'm late. Sorry I'm late. I almost didn't make it here tonight, and I'll tell you what happened. There was a sign-- there was a sign that said, no turn on red. But it was at a flashing red light. And I had to time it. (audience laughing) (audience laughing) It took me about a half hour. A police officer-- a police officer tried to pull me over for not having a rearview mirror. But I didn't see him. (audience laughing) You'll get that in a second. If you didn't get it. Some of these are like joke grenades. You have to tell them and then-- (audience laughing) And then wait like eight seconds before you get it. I got my car fixed. I got the muffler on my car fixed, which is great. But now I can hear all this other stuff-- (audience laughing) --that's wrong with my car. (audience laughing) Now, it's going to cost like $500 just to get louder speakers. (audience laughing) Last week my brake light kept coming on. So I had to get that disconnected. (audience laughing) I have a personalized license plate. Does anybody have one of those? Woo. Woo. Yeah, I got one, too. Mine says, I forgot. Yeah. That way, if I get an accident, I can just leave. Yeah. And then the guy'll call the cops, and they'll say, well, what was the license number? (audience laughing) I forgot. One time we were driving through a construction zone, and there was a sign that said, speed limit 35 ahead. And there was four of us. (audience laughing) So we were, basically, through there in no time. (audience laughing) Good thing I wasn't on a bus. (audience laughing) I came into town on the bus. I like riding the bus. It's strange though because ever since I was a little kid, my mom used to say, there's always one weirdo on every bus. I couldn't find him. (audience laughing) My mom's great. I remember one time I asked her if I could borrow some of her sleeping pills. She said, sure. Knock yourself out. (audience laughing) I remember in third grade, I'd run home with my school pictures. I'd go, Mom, is this a good picture of me? And she'd say, &quot;well, (audience laughing) &quot;It looks just like you. (audience laughing) &quot;If that's what you mean.&quot; (audience laughing) She's pretty cool, my mom. She started a new support group. She started a new support group called Dam, D-A-M, Mothers Against Dyslexia. (audience laughing) I think I get my sense of humor from my grandfather because I remember he was on his deathbed one time-- (audience laughing) --and-- (audience laughing) --we said, Grandpa, when you die, do you want to be buried or cremated? He said, &quot;I don't know surprise me.&quot; (audience laughing) You like my jacket? I was going to wear my camouflage jacket, but I couldn't find it. (audience laughing) I saw a guy one time wearing a camouflage hat. You got to wonder where his head is at. (audience laughing) I like camouflaged jokes. You know how come? You don't see them coming. (audience laughing) I love this jacket. I know what you're thinking. You're going, I have that couch. (audience laughing) My grandma has that couch. I have a nice waist. I get complimented on my waist all the time. I was talking to these girls at a club. Soon as I left, she turned to her buddies and said, what a waste. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) Thank you very much. I know you're thinking you recognize me from someplace, but you don't know where from. I'll tell you what it is. You recognize me from my modeling career. Yeah, yeah. I was the third one over on the evolution chart. (audience laughing) Yeah, yeah. I was Javaman. Really. Watch, watch. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) (audience laughing) You don't think they went out and dug one up, do you? It was me. The other day I got stuck in a no left turn only lane. Yeah, I didn't know what to do either. (audience laughing) No left turn only. I ended up just taking the plates off and leaving it there. (audience laughing) I saw a sign the other day. You know what it said? It said, don't even think about parking here. Yeah. So I parked there without even thinking about it. (audience laughing) Just right in there. Saved me an hour. (audience laughing) Cool beans. (audience laughing) I was driving through a construction zone one time, and there is a big sign that said, dip. And then 50 feet later in the same road, there is a big sign that said, bump. And I was thinking, why don't they just take the bumps and put them in the dips. (audience laughing) My old school R&amp;B station has been sending me mixed signals. I don't know if I'm supposed to get down on it or get up off of that thing. (audience laughing) Get down on it. OK. Get up off of that thing. (audience laughing) Sorry. Get down on it. OK. Get up off of that thing. (audience laughing) I'm in a weird mood. The other day I locked my coat hanger in my car. (audience laughing) Yeah, a good thing I had my keys. I'd still be at the mall if it wasn't for those babies. (audience laughing) You know what I mean. I grew up-- no, wait a minute. No, I didn't. Let me rephrase that. I was raised in a motorhome. That was fun, when I was little. The older I got, the weirder it got. Like when I got my driver's license, it was pretty awkward. I'd be saying stuff like, hey, dad. Can I borrow the house? (audience laughing) So what time do you want the home home? (audience laughing) One time a guy rear-ended us, went through our back window, landed on our kitchen table, kept going through the front windshield. Home wrecker. (audience laughing) They got him for reckless driving and breaking and entering (audience laughing) and leaving the scene of an accident. (audience laughing) You know they say that a person's car reflects their personality. I don't have a car. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) No, I have a car. It doesn't work. (audience laughing) My tires are going bald on my car. I can't afford new ones. I'm going to try combing them over. (audience laughing) See if that works. I'm from Michigan originally. Is anybody from Michigan? Well, let's talk about them then. (audience laughing) I'm from right here in Michigan, Rochester, Michigan. You can use your hand for a map in Michigan. You can't do that anywhere else. Except for Italy. This is Italy. (audience laughing) But that's the only other one you can do during the clean show. (audience laughing) I had my very first job working for the Village of Rochester, Michigan. But then they became a city and they fired me. Yeah. Well, whoever heard of a city idiot? (audience laughing) We were in Saskatchewan, Canada. That's fun. Kind of flat. But fun. Very pretty, but flat. They say you can sit on the porch and watch your dog run away for a week. (audience laughing) That's how flat it was. I used to live in L.A. I was out there for the riots. OK, I wasn't out there for the riots. It's not like, hurry up, we're missing the riots. (audience laughing) Come on, it's a riot. (audience laughing) Did you see the looter carrying the TV? There was a looter carrying a refrigerator down the street. Who's going to stop a guy that can carry a refrigerator down the street? Not me. I'm going to go after the kids with the chips. (audience laughing) Where you think you're going, chip boy? (audience laughing) Yeah, don't make me use this, Mr. I'm not talking to him. I'm talking to you. (audience laughing) I played at the biker rally, the big biker rally I played at in South Dakota. You want to hear the joke I told the biker rally and did not get my butt kicked? (audience laughing) OK. Do you know the difference between a Hoover and a Harley? The position of the dirtbag. (audience laughing) (audience cheering) They loved it. I was in Wisconsin. Anybody from there? Well, let's talk about them. Are you from Wisconsin? - Close. - Close. - Chicago. - Oh, Chicago. You know that's not Wisconsin. (audience laughing) You know, we're just as not Wisconsin as Chicago is. (audience laughing) Anybody from Wisconsin? Well, I used to live in Illinois. (audience laughing) I'm from Ohio. &quot;Really? &quot;My cousin's from West Virginia.&quot; (audience laughing) We did a show at the Dells in Wisconsin. It's a big touristy area. I know about it. My buddy lives there. He has a farm there. He's the farmer in the Dells. I didn't make that up. He hates when I call him that. I go, well, you bought the farm in the Dells. You should have saw it coming. (audience laughing) Wisconsin is thinking of changing the name on their license plate, their slogan, to Wisconsin, smell our dairy air. (audience laughing) Two words by the way, dairy and air. Not one-- not derriere. That's different. That's one word. (audience laughing) That's French. That's French, right? Derriere. I know some French. I know-- (audience laughing) I do, I know Des Moines. That's French. (audience laughing) It is. It's French for the moin. (audience laughing) You can look it up. I know Bonsoir, Bonsoir. You know what that means? That's French for what's up? (audience laughing) Bonsoir. Bonsoir. Bonsoir. Bonsoir. Bonsoir. Bonsoir. Bonsoir. Bonsoir. Bonsoir. (audience laughing) Do that in France. They'd love it. Get right in their face. Bonsoir. (audience laughing) Bonsoir. (audience laughing) Make sure you tell him you're American, too. They love that. Just get right up in there. Bonsoir. USA. Bonsoir. (audience laughing) You want to hear my impression of being on a roller coaster in France? We. (audience laughing) I was in Hawaii. Have you been there? Woo. That's fun. That's a fun place. We went to the Big Island of Hawaii. (audience laughing) The language is messed up in Hawaii because there's only like 12 letters in the whole language, and they use their words over. So every word means like three different things. It's crazy. And the vowels they just use over and over and over. A good thing Wheel of Fortune is not filmed in Hawaii. Or it would still be on right now. I'd like to buy a vowel. &quot;OK.&quot; Is there a A? &quot;There's 19 As.&quot; (audience laughing) And the words they use, they use their words over. Every word means three different things. Aloha. You've heard that word, right? What does that mean? That means Hello, and what else? - Goodbye. - Goodbye. What's up with that? I can see using words over, but why are you going to use the word that means the opposite of the same word that you're using the same word for? That makes no sense. That would be like if hot and cold were both Aloha. And you would have like big A on this faucet over here. And you would have a big A on this faucet over here. And you're taking a shower, and you go, oh, my gosh. Is that Aloha? Oh, man. I better turn on the Aloha, so it's not as Aloha. Because, right now, it's too Aloha. So I need to add some Aloha to that Aloha, so it's not as Aloha as I'm used to not having it. (audience laughing) We went snorkel diving in Hawaii. That was fun, sort of. We saw these big old fish swimming around, which was cool, until I got home and thought about it. Then, I felt kind of ripped off because that's what they do. (audience laughing) They swim around. I'm just saying, if they were skiing or something, I could see a couple extra bucks. But they were just swimming. But we got to see the turtles. The turtles are great. They come right up to you. And you can't touch them. You can only look at them, the, sea turtles, because it's a nationally federally mandated endangered Species Act in 1973. And they've learned this, so they will come right up and they will kick you in the foot and they will. And they'll bite your ear. And they don't care because they know, what are you going to do? Go to jail? No, you're not going to go to jail. (audience laughing) You're just going to shut up and do whatever the turtle does and not care. Because you cannot, look, you can't touch them. Literally, you can only look at them. It's a law. That's why they call them sea turtles. Because you can only look at them. Yeah, you can't touch them. That's why you can't get a turtleneck sweater made out of real turtlenecks anymore. (audience laughing) Had a lot of jobs. Got fired from a job. I got fired from a job at an ad agency. And had a great idea for a new slogan for Grey Poupon mustard, but they didn't like it, and they fired me. Want to hear it? We have a picture of a guy holding a sandwich open like this. OK. And then underneath it, it says, poop on me. (audience laughing) A lot of people think I'm dumb, but I'm laughing all the way to the bank. Why? I don't have an account there. (audience laughing) I'm serious. I go to cash my check. The lady says, &quot;how do you want this? &quot;Heads or tails?&quot; (audience laughing) In my spare time, I like to turn down the volume on The Muppet Show and try to read Kermit's lips. (audience laughing) Sometimes I like to go to hockey games and throw ding dongs out on the ice. (audience laughing) I saw a book Bankruptcy for Dummies. As opposed to what? (audience laughing) You open it up. It says chapter 1. Chapter 11. (audience laughing) Chapter 2, chapter 7. (audience laughing) Chapter 3, chapter 13. (audience laughing) My parents are cool. My dad's a truck driver. That's pretty neat. Every summer on vacation, we used to go to England and just drive around so he could get his other arm tanned. (audience laughing) How are we doing? Oh, man, I've been up here three minutes already. It seems like longer. They say, can you do an hour? I say, it'll seem like an hour. (audience laughing) It's a beautiful room, isn't it? It's haunted. You knew that, right? I did a show here last night. Right in the middle of my act, I start hearing, boo. (audience laughing) Boo. You suck. (audience laughing) Boo, you're not funny. Boo. My doctor tells me I'm a kleptomaniac. So I've been taking a lot of stuff for it. (audience laughing) Taking everything for it. Having hallucinations lately. I'm getting better though. I'm seeing a psychiatrist. (audience laughing) I had an appointment to see my psychic next week. But she called me up and told me I wouldn't be able to make it. (audience laughing) My buddy's a psychic. He's crazy. He's a psycho, too. He's both. He's a psychic and a psycho. No only does he predict your future, but he follows you around and make sure it happens like that. (audience laughing) Thank you very much everybody. You're awesome. See ya later. Thanks for coming out. Oh, stop it. OK. Oh, stop it. (audience cheering)