Americans moved around a lot And many have generally gone And those destinations also inflation rates in the US. The story of inflation is migration destinations and pandemic. Phoenix, Atlanta and Tampa seeing both hot inflation home buying. The reason why Atlanta is terms of inflation in the are moving into Atlanta. Two or three times a week we wanting to buy our house strangers. We saw right away that Phoenix and the lowest in Nationally the Consumer April 2022. They're effectively becoming Now, once people get here, inflation is so high' from. It's important as ever to migration is impacting Here's where inflation is migration across the Many Americans relocated cities to more affordable analysis from real estate However, this kind of seems new. In 2021, where we started to migration driven by the places like Tampa and Where we really started to and pull out, where the hot driving the big increases According to Redfin's highest inflation rate of Prices spiked 10.9% in the Plus, Phoenix was one of move yo, second only to according to Redfin. Housing is definitely a driving that. Housing costs quarter, are about 12% Most people in Phoenix that the home price inflation enjoyment. Essentially, double what they were two Hot housing market like We have a lot are the people That's definitely the and services and especially Redfin said Atlanta had the rate at 10.6%, and the happened to be the 10th destination. People have more work also looking for more to San Francisco, New York metropolitan areas. Atlanta is still much more That margin is definitely The Sun Belt trend continues the third highest inflation the third most popular Meanwhile, the city that saw was San Francisco. And San Francisco had the Redfin's analysis at 5.2%. We know a lot of people that throughout the pandemic like the Bay Area and these hot migration pandemic. The New York City area had rate at 5.4% and saw the And keep in mind, this is level. So we're not saying in New York. It's just that is a little bit lower. Measuring inflation as the price index, it's the So that is a basket of people consume and housing that basket. The Consumer Price Index, average change over time in consumers, according to the That basket of stuff is provided by families and actually bought. But the prices calculated are weighted. And we have a sample of all that we collect data from In about 75 areas across the We're collecting in the prices a month, so around a And we're using that to change, how much the price market basket. So if the CPI represents the goods across the country, their own unique weighted slightly different weights. And that variation depends It can be different from Now our data shows that inflation in every area of less than the Northeast, a and west. The first place weight of gasoline and also costs, because that's where In the most recent 12 month are up over 40%. People buy a lot of cars, Prices of both of those nationally. But also here big driver. People feel the pain at the The gas price increase? That will increase the cost And why you're going to see overall other services, so cost of living. Even though the national signs of a cool down, will remain attractive to according to Redfin. Thanks, in part, to I think there's a long term sort of the Sunbelt, away from the northeast and Homes are becoming less the Sun Belt metros than in Does that affect migration? I don't know. It hadn't because prices are going up Big factor that will drive pattern is the housing The rate hike now the Fed right, when the mortgage down the housing market a Right? But specifically how will move. That is hard to Redfin suggests that the to relatively affordable diminish. The cost of living might be who is moving into the resident who is already more of the pains if they gains and they are still That's why wages are the key together, especially for Locals are simply priced out much further out or to a where it's relatively more If your wage and your salary with the pace of inflation, be hurt. Wage increases nationally Phoenix wages were up 6.4%. Now, that's, of course, not inflation. People will be hurt a lot And that is more pronounced these hot migration need to do to address that? Raising interest rates at to do will be one way to tame it. That's one shows up with this analysis homes in these hot housing supply, to also and that are experiencing There's also transportation could invest in and maybe on cars in these very car Atlanta and Phoenix, that growth. There's a lot of uncertainty next. You have the issues availability, labor When you have that kind of it puts upward pressure on So what is the big unknown? Of course, its several What the effect of Federal it going to be a soft Is it going to be a Who knows?