Hi everyone. My name is Patrick Akil and if you've ever thought of going We cover why and when to go freelancing, of freelancing. Joining me today is Andrea trainer, and big, So enjoy! Beyond Coding. I forgot who I asked this, but when you travel, do you already kind of know Like when we're talk about Amsterdam, Yeah, but also other cities. Not always, you know, like, I had the chance to do my career to So, I'm originally from Italy. I worked in Switzerland, in Berlin Now. I'm based in Paris. So I know, but being part of this community and being spontaneous, like. Right. I mean, let's say that I go to a new city not I don't don't have any, you know, Yeah. I can Yeah. Do you know somebody And you know, when I go to my trades, or something like this? It's, it's part of being part of a of Right? I'm, I'm based right now in Paris, But it's always nice to have this feeling Yeah. And whenever you need it, whenever you, you know, whatever you want to experience Whenever you get to know somebody, a to. People are very a very chilled In fact some of my friends they're like, so you just go on LinkedIn Yeah that's what I do. It's what I do. That's funny. Well, what community specifically Because I think there's a lot What do you see Yeah, yeah. No, I would say that I'm the closest So all the community infrastructure, cloud, native yeah, I would say that's the one I've been Let's put it this way. Gotcha. Both. When I was here in Amsterdam, previously pretty much. so it's, it has been just. Yeah, I'm trying to. Yeah. To give some continuing this way. This way. Even though, you know, I don't are related to, to tech And what came first, for a good and long And this feeling of, let's say, before then you ventured in freelancing and then you found kind of this community No community definitely came first. And, I'm preparing a talk for next week I'm going to about community And, and I tried, you know, to with a community. Yeah, it was back I gave a public talk, and it was more of a I used to be like, like, I pretty shy person, introverted, Now, I'm not the most extrovert one, They feel, and the getting involved in community to meetups was a way for me to just fight Nobody really likes being introvert So it was more of a way for me to get out there and face something that I, you know, Let's put it this way. and and yeah, basically, I found out that this was useful To get a little bit out of the shell you know, challenging situation, this way. Yeah. And then at some point, you decided to actually venture out What were some of the decisions and why Yeah, in my case, Let's put it this way. so I've been in a when I was living in Berlin. I worked there for a company, And back then some little freelancing things, I was doing. Okay. So, you know, I would work during the day either workshop for the US. So it was working pretty well Then I moved to the Netherlands. It, I found out that, you know, in the Netherlands is very common I got employed again in the Netherlands Yeah. And one day a week and then you know, as you know as I was feeling more and more confidence and everyone that is behind nobody talks about, to venturing, Pretty much. But it was a very gradual transition over, I want to zoom into that But before we do, you said you started out How did you get those gigs Like did you just reach out to companies That's a very good question. So the startup I was working for in where like 35, 40 people that was cloud native first, much The problem is that our engineers didn't have any, And so they asked me running internally to our engineers. So, you know, give them the basic what it means to have, software cloud native, I gave that workshop internally and, Like, I like the process of, like, building the material, And since then, you know, like at the end of this workshop, with all this work I've done and like, Yeah. So I gave it to a couple of conferences like really for a friend like, looking for another trainer, Kubernetes and wants to deliver Would you be up for it? And. Yeah, at the time was working well, see let's see how it goes. Let's That's really you need somebody to give you like the initial kick And I think it's part, It's part of the, also the freelance because at the end, freelancing, if you don't build yourself, you go to an office projects or, You need to actively build, you know, a group of people and with whom you can exchange tips Is that also that you touched on, I mean, I feel like in the past especially since Covid, this hustle culture, You know, you don't want to have a boss. You need to be your own boss and so on. And a lot of those talks are very, like they say, all the positive things but they like to completely ignore you need to deal with bureaucracy. Sometimes you're going to make mistakes there are times you need to actively. I mean, you're basically your own CFO, you know, Yeah. And this is a bit the part that not It's, it's a little bit, you know, it's more difficult, If you are willing to learn them, You're going to love freelancing. But there are people that, you know, like, Bureaucracy. Like it's my worst nightmare. Oh, yeah. It's it's horrible. Like, but, you know, there are people who, don't like to, to market themself as much, So this is a little bit the part that not a lot of people to talk about, Right. It's yeah, it's a part of freelancing. It is important. But yeah, Whenever we are about this talk about you have your own boss, Yeah. Doesn't work. I mean, those, those things And I've thought of freelancing and maybe a bit of imposter syndrome It's also the feeling of I like the community, We come together every Tuesday. We share knowledge and I would lose that. I would lose, let's say, the colleagues basis, or this feeling of community Is that also something that happens to you of a lot of communities Is it not lonely a little bit. It's natural. Right. As as you're saying, like, right now We work together on a project. So we meet regularly, we work together to achieve a certain job Right And this is where, you know, There are that they are important. Like surround yourself with other people So for example, in my case but also for example, freelancer that do something completely everyone goes to different perspective You don't want to be close You don't want to be completely isolated It's important that you. Yeah, And again, it's about it's you need to put effort in order Okay. If you don't want to be isolated, you are the one people, go to a co-working space, But it's on you. Yeah, right. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Interesting. Yeah. And then I'm thinking of, okay, Because especially early I was like that technical but it doesn't really go Oh, yeah. It goes away. Can you start freelancing or would you still advise to go through, a bit I would, but again, it's my opinion, There is not a manual about freelancing, I would still advise to work for a company I think it's it's important you know, to get the, I mean, I think it's important more structure in your work I've learned a lot in the company Like every time it is, though, where you are learning something. this is the important thing. But, you know, I've worked mainly as an employee and, you know, seeing them and see how all the procedure It's, I think it's important, when you're a freelancer, organize your work in, what you're doing, And these are skills that maybe, or when you are right out of university Right. so yeah, at least I didn't have them Yeah. This way. Yeah. Me neither. I mean, I've learned a lot in companies, like company dynamics and being part of that, perspective, I have been in it but then I don't have the feeling of, let's say risk Or yeah, I get to choose which assignments Like, I, I've been with Cuba for five And then this January, it was like there was an opportunity And I always kind of also romanticized And now I could just be like, Because I really want to try this? And I actually land this position. I'm having a lot of fun So then the not sure how it is for freelancer. For example, if you go from assignment to assignment between assignments is too big, for example, like early on in career, because those are more hard to find. I think the more you grow very often companies for freelancers, they look for somebody Yeah, right. They don't have the skills internally. So they are somebody external the problem. Yeah. So it's true as well you need to spend time actively You know that it be in your own, Some of the time, if you find the perfect where, you know, you like the people you work with and you also have It's it's fantastic. I mean, at the end, you always end up But like on a topic that maybe you are curious about that if that's, that's But at times You know, maybe when you have like, where you don't have any contract It's also about, yeah, keeping yourself up to date, let it be or just, you know, like hacking things out Pretty much. Yeah. I'm curious what what works for you Let's say you're in a gap you go to conferences, workshops and keep up to date? I mostly tend to to hack things around. Okay. So I have like I have like a mental list like in the cloud native space that I never had the chance to use, that And whenever, I have a little bit of, you know, and another, or I take a break yeah, maybe I spend like a couple of days how the project works and that, For example, in my next assignment. Yeah, you mentioned a freelance community, something like, before speaking to you, And it makes a lot of sense in different aspects of life But what does a freelance community do? For example, yeah. I mean, when you talk about the freelance as just a group of freelancer one thing Like a freelance collective. Works like fika written like, Yeah. pretty much. It's a collective of, like, working more or less Let's put it this way. And what we do you know, the bureaucracy with projects that's, you know, come my way. But maybe I'm already busy And, you know, I if I, if I don't take Yeah. And maybe I know somebody somebody that they know. And then I can say, hey, if you want, I can put you in contact, in contact They're looking for a project. I think they're a good fit from the point And, you know, These the idea of a cooperative really try to, you know, But but when where So each one of us is independent each one of us is a freelancer. But whenever we go a project, for example, we present ourself So let's say that we have a project, if one of them needs to leave we can find somebody else to replace him. These these the idea. Yeah. and also very often whenever you work, it's a little bit more difficult Whenever you are an individual, And instead in this way we create sort of, a structure that makes them, Interesting. And we try to treat it This way, this way. So we try to take decisions together, Yeah. To basically push the, push the corporative in the direction And yeah, we have like some members, of that internal cooperative and you know, sometimes organize events community, sometimes they're open It's just it's it's very fluid. Let's put it this way. So it's a it's a very self organized. Yeah. That's very nice. I mean I I've always been with what And then you have like nowadays is more so Midlands constructions a bit more stability, a little bit And then this, let's say and it's like the third aspect then of it type of style. I think that's very interesting. Exactly. Yeah. It also helps a lot with, with solitude, having a community of people does more or less severe to have. And, you know, keep in mind that with many of those people, so we do the same things, We try, you know, not to compete We, we, we try to help each other out you know, like, their project For example, you know, we try to find and this kind of thing, you just about, it's like this. They these the main idea of the conflict. One of my friends is working on his own and he really always talks about he's He loves doing what he is doing. Now, have you ever thought of or would you see are using the same camp No, I don't exclude it, to be honest. this is another misconception that, I feel like comes a bit less, you know, if you if you go, And if you don't do that, I know many I have many friends, have many people that I know And they're super, super, super happy. and, you know, like, you know, within our, Like, it's, you know, Other freelancer like. Well, I mean, conditions in your life maybe you need to move, maybe, maybe you want you know, not always on the hook Not always on the I don't think it's. I don't think it's a bad thing. I don't think it's a bad thing. And also, again, when you work as an employee, Yeah, we are freelancers. You get paid to deliver. That's it. you just you just need to deliver. and, and. Yeah, to get your little place Also going back to a traditional company being an employee for a while, or, for the rest of your career I don't see the I feel like if in the future I have a okay, freelancing is not for me anymore, I will not be disappointed by that. That will not feel bad about it Yeah, I really like that perspective Right? And you didn't just take a right You can still circle back and you can make decisions In that way, freelance is about making I switched to freelancing that the job that they wanted Pretty much. I like doing workshops I like to do like technical work every now And there is just no job in this way. And so if at a certain point, and the best thing for your situation that did, that did. Yeah. Why not. It's totally fine. Yeah. Like it's No. Exactly. Yeah. I mean, you already touched on that you also get paid to learn. And when you're a freelancer, You have a certain expertise. company needs that more so now than later. And you get paid to execute. Have you also been on an assignment not the assignment for me, It happens. It happens. Unfortunately, it's, yeah. There is not there's never like it's It's always a little bit in the middle, like it's up to you to scope a project sometimes you know. Yeah. You just, you just end up in a project or in a team Yeah. Right. and this can be for a variety of reasons that I was supposed to bring, or the team dynamics don't work out there. There are many things. What happens most of the time is that I tend basically to stick with it or see if I can influence things But, you know, after a while, if things don't work out for you you just say, yeah, we showed the best, but, And most of the time these just like it's It doesn't happen But, but yeah, it's on both sides. So it's like the kind of you part ways, you know, Like without any. Yeah. Without any anger, without any, It's. Yeah. It's fine. I think you have to. I mean, I'm only part of this, But throughout this journey journey, I see people going from company you circle back around, you're like, hey, we've worked together but we never actually worked together. Do you feel that as well? I mean, and and you've traveled Do you still come across Yeah. It happens like, it feels big, Let's put it this way. Yeah. Every now and then there is somebody new, I've met recently, I was working with for this startup back I've met her again because now she works Yeah. And so, you know, he's just like. Yeah, like back in Berlin, we never. We were never, like, talking to each other We were in two completely different teams. So, you know, And when you are 30 people, But now she's more she's getting like native space working for a company And so yeah, like, you just you just meet It's always fun. That's really nice. I'm curious to hear your opinion on how, aspect of the tech landscape has changed and they say, and they told me that kind of this meetup culture is kind of trickling off, that much that many people There's more content online And if people self educate, this is harder to find or you only find it in conferences if you do more outreach And is that something So and so, so, Covid definitely didn't help. so Covid was a big hit for community Like the whole meetup scene was basically, for like 3 to 3 years, like gone, I so I also feel that people got really fed up like, yeah, I rather watch a YouTube video At least that's also my feeling, I think. I think meetups are coming, are coming up. The problem is that a lot of organizers, especially, because let's say that you have a meetup before Covid, during Covid two years, So the community doesn't grow maybe other people may move away and then you go back, and you used to have like 70 hmhm, like, okay. So you might feel like you've lost it all. I believe that if you bring like back a certain regular cadence, the most important things Things come back, things come back. I've seen that in Paris, where I moved right now I started getting involved and it was a little bit, again, frozen There were not that many people, I tried to insist like, okay, let's do It was helping me to get integrated into the local community So there was this networking with like the French ecosystem Yeah. And a little by little it's, not that many people, and then you start seeing the like the regulars, I will call them the regulars, like people Yeah. And that's and that's amazing. You know, because these people like the yeah after after Covid, They show up all the time. They come to you and they say, hey, It was really interesting. We appreciate all the effort And and yeah, for me So just circling back, but but yeah, Covid definitely I still feel like people it's it's a little bit more, tricky right now because, you know, then in the evening, just getting out Yeah, I, I can understand but I feel like people need more and more like Yeah. To meet in this kind of, settings. Let's put it this way, But it has been, yeah. I feel like it's also it's regularity in meetups I think that helps a lot. like, not not having like, and then the next one is in four months, trying to be regular, like a less but regular then more, Yeah. Have you experimented Because I, I know a few people if they have experimented with it, but it's definitely been a thought Coding podcast to interact The only interaction I have, is the Q&amp;A aspect of these episodes, because every, every now and then I ask, Do you have any questions? And based on that, that little interaction Yeah. I'm wondering if I can do more because I've seen slack communities, And have you experimented That's a good question. I'm a I'm in a couple of, slack I feel like there are interesting and I get a lot of value but but they lack the human touch. I envy they they lack the human touch. we are social animals. So at the end of. All right. Yeah. So it's I see them more as, Yeah, place And there are other people that have the same ideas But, you know, it's it's tricky There is like to create an actual, Pretty much. Yeah. And and yeah, Non-digital community in, in your case you know, you have an audience, you know, meetup or in a community like, Okay. How can you say that? Like everybody's on the same. it is not we we don't build a community Right. Everybody that is in a in a meetup and give their own presentation. Yeah. And expose their own topic, which is something that, you know, for Let's put it like this. Even though your audience can ask you pretty much every time. So it's a little bit different I get that. But yeah, it's digital communities but I still feel like there is a lot of value and, you know, just looks at each other Yeah, I like that. That's something I definitely miss. That's why I maybe I was thinking of or maybe I should just and see if that's actually, I think I don't know the demographic, you know, You have to go there. Yeah, yeah. I don't know where your if your listeners Europe in general, I think you could think about organizing, Maybe we'll try that out. Yeah. Very interesting. I, I never really reflected on that. But this concept of community with personal branding, Yeah. Like within companies I know, people working at those companies, And if they move from company to company, then all of a sudden, Yeah, and all of a sudden I follow them on LinkedIn or that content Do you actively around your personal branding consciously, of the things A mix of the two I've. I've always been interesting in community Yeah. this is always been but there is definitely a side of it especially when I turned into freelancing You need to build your own personal And I'm not. I'm really not good at, like, It's kind of like I'm not good at that. I've tried several times. I go like on a, you know, that's good. I post every day and then just one day It's gone. I have to say, honestly, yeah, I tried so hard is so many ways But yeah it's a mix of the two. I like just getting to know I think it's it's obviously from one culture to another, SEO people do things differently I think it's very interesting. but yeah, part of it is also building when you're a freelancer And it's very important. It's I feel like it's part of the, it's Yeah. Can you be a freelancer without having, let's say, Because I wonder how that would work. If people can't really find you, then I've also worked with people and you have zero social media them just by how do you say that Basically, it might be maybe a little bit more But you know, right now, the same way position, Oh, it's just that when you yeah, when you don't have your own personal brand, Yeah. When you don't show you might have to rely on them Right? So you might have to rely on them for your next project Instead, when you build takes a lot of effort, yeah, these kind of things come freelancing is really like this right you have times where you get like and you're like, And then your project finishes. And for the next two months. Yeah. No, it looks like nobody's business Yeah, yeah. This thing I'm wondering also what your opinion I'm trying to start to go to more meetups and trying to see on conferences I don't really know I have trouble finding my voice. Even though I have a lot of interests. I find it hard to be like, okay, Am I really an expert in this avenue For example, how did you find, that you'd like to cover or talk about, in the cloud native space, and the community aspect. Yeah, I generally don't think I don't think you need to be like you. People go to a conference and they think, I need to be able to answer any possible And that's just impossible. It's just not true. So very often I learn sometimes I even submit that maybe of, you know, like a software And this forces me to learn to test it before the conference. And, and it is it's worked out because, you know, it forces you to say, talk about this topic, which is like you know, like a data pipeline And they said that they would do it But I would like to know more about it. And so, and with the preparation, and and learn this tool and understand and at the end of the conference, You go like from like the beginner talks. But I just like more of these kind of talks, like an intro to Yeah. And more like advanced Instead go, okay, let's go deep into I don't feel If I feel good in the, like showcasing a new a new software, I bring some value. I would just submit a beginner talk And I feel like it's always nice to start Right? So doing giving a talk in intimidating at a conference that are paying, Yeah, right. In a meet up, people They see a list of the talk. They go there if they like. It's amazing. If they don't like it. Yeah. I mean, I'm sorry. We did our best kind of thing. You got to please everyone in a conference, exposition or hire, People go there because they expect They pay a good price. And so, you know, This is why there is a whole CFP process. This is why there are multiple people because you need to at least match The expectations are not, you know, So you need to provide some quality talks. You need to provide some value But yeah, first time speakers, for example, a nice stage I like that a lot. Then you kind of build an anchor, at a meetup or at a conference, then you start and it's less of a, let's say, advanced this is what I think, or this is what I don't really I mean, I've seen them in the past and but I didn't know because there's a lot of content online for people's own time. So I didn't know those. Can they still compete, Because usually online content nowadays Yeah, really gone up into it is it is there are people Right. The I'm sure there are people that listen Yeah. And I'm sure there are other people who consume this podcast So it's also about the delivery, right, And this is the important part. Like people say, oh, okay. I don't have you know, only about topics no one knows about. And it's just not true. Because first of all, there is always what you already know. And there are people who just want Maybe they start you know, follow the first 3 or 4 steps of the quickstart, And you said you go there, you show them, yeah, all this stuff And those are like a more complex use case for example. This is also very common practice for a you focus on one on 1 but also on the interaction that it has with, you know, So that ecosystem and also talks Nice. Yeah. In terms of like the media, I don't worry And again, like it's when I submit a talk, If this talk is good for this conference, organizer telling me, hey, we think your talk is great, So I just submit it Okay. So that's a great perspective because honestly that's what withholds me And there are the people Yeah, yeah, yeah. So there are people who do it. It's you would be surprised sometimes. sometimes as submitted talks so and so maybe not that valuable. And at the end that's I will not tell the whole story, But like the first talk Yeah, it was basically the Oh, okay. Three months summer internship. And on the stage with me, very well, not two people that are very well known Okay. So pretty much on stage out of Bachelor, presenting the results and two people that have their own was like as been a Debian project leader Oh well, the other one is being involved page forever and you know, there you feel the imposter Yeah, but still, there were people at the conference I feel what you did was cool. I think it was very interesting. I liked your talk very much. But, you know, Yeah, it's. Yeah. You should not think about this. Think too much. Just submit it. And, Yeah. It's not your job to judge. You are to judge your talk. It is. There is a call for paper. Exactly. I can really see how that experience When you have giants next to you. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, that's really cool. So it's Yeah, it was I, it was a crazy It was fun and definitely helped me out to, you know, I've really enjoyed this conversation, kind of going over Also non-romantic part. I really appreciate you when it's probably the right time also for you as a person, and then you're bonding with community and Is there anything still I didn't expect this. Yeah, I know one does. I always do it, but yeah, yeah. Trick me. I would say in general let it be public speaking, You should just give it a shot. And we are lucky enough. Like, you know your your podcast targeted around tech to work in an industry You know, in an industry that is very, there is a lot of jobs out there. There is a lot of opportunities out there. And so getting, you know, rolling back to what you had before So it may yeah it might. The message to want to get out And don't be afraid of failure. They'll be afraid of failing because like, It's it's a failure. On And sometimes, yeah, we we beat yourself up a little bit too much. I love that it's a failure. You only if you think it's a failure. Yeah. That's great Thank you so much for listening. If you're still with us leave Check out Andrea. I'll put all his socials And with that being said, We'll see you on the next one. Beyond Coding.