Hello friends, Olesya is with you on the Cooking at Home channel. You don't have to stand at the stove for a long time to make a cake. And to make a delicious cake, you just need to find a good recipe. And today I am sharing with you just such a delicious and proven cake recipe, for which even an oven is not needed. And you only need 3 simple products that are in every kitchen! I warn you right away that this cake is without baking and without cookies. The guests thought it was Napoleon :). And this is SMETANIK :). Very delicate and soaked, it just melts in your mouth! Don't believe me? Let's check! ;). Save the recipe so as not to lose it and share it with your mom, daughter and friends on social networks! I put 200 g of sour cream in a bowl. Sour cream is suitable for any fat content, I have 20%. I pour in 200 g of sugar. By eye;). 1 tsp Vanilla sugar. By eye :). I mix sour cream with sugar for literally 1-2 minutes so that the sugar dissolves well. I add baking powder to the flour. I have here 400 g of flour and a bag of baking powder - that's 10 g or 2 tsp. Sift about half of the flour with baking powder. I pour in the remaining flour and knead the dough. I put the dough on the table and stir it on the table. Here is the dough I got. From the dough I form a flagellum or just such a sausage. Divide the dough into 10 pieces. Sprinkle flour on the table and roll the ball into a thin crust. This dough on sour cream turns out to be just excellent, the cakes roll out very easily, quickly - practically no effort is needed. 1 minute and this cake is ready. I cut a circle out of the dough around the diameter of the pan. I have a diameter of cakes of 18 cm, it is even smaller than the diameter of my frying pan, my frying pan is 24 cm. Look how thin it turns out and is easy to handle and does not tear. I collect the cuttings. See how many scraps you get. I also collect them, make a flagellum and roll them out. Simply excellent waste-free production! :). I got only 16 cakes out of the entire batch of dough. And that's why I'm going to use a couple of cakes to decorate the cake. And now everything is very simple: I heat up the pan, I do not grease it with anything. I spread the biscuit and bake literally 1-2 minutes on one side. I turn it over and bake for another 1-2 minutes on the other side. Do not hold for a long time, the cakes are cooked very quickly. The cakes are cooked very quickly, like pancakes. But to taste, these are not pancakes at all, but very tasty crunchy cake layers. And how they smell like vanilla - just incredibly fragrant! And as you can see, even an oven is not needed here - the cake is cooked in a pan even faster than in the oven. The cakes themselves are not very sweet, but the sweet cream will saturate them perfectly and add just as much sweetness as needed. I got only 16 cakes out of the entire batch of dough. And that's why I'm going to use a couple of cakes to decorate the cake. Now let's quickly prepare the cream. For the cream, I took 600 g of sour cream. I wanted my cream to turn out thicker, I bought the usual 20% sour cream in the store and just put it on cheesecloth overnight. That's how much serum the glass is. And it turned out such a thick sour cream, like home-made village sour cream, in terms of density. Just look, sour cream is just like cheese, not like a spoon is worth it, you can even break it with your hands)). in a bowl I have 600 g of already weighed sour cream. I add 200 g of powdered sugar to sour cream. Beat the sour cream with sugar until smooth, at a low mixer speed. Take a look. what a beautiful cream it turns out. I take the dish on which I will serve the cake and grease it a little with cream. This is so that the cake stands well on the platter and does not slide while I collect it. I put the cake. And I grease it well with sour cream. And there is a little secret. I will share it, maybe not everyone knows him. if I need the cake to soak very quickly, I just sprinkle the cakes with milk, and grease the top with cream. Then the cakes are soaked just instantly and the cake can be eaten even 30 minutes after the refrigerator. Here we have such a tall cake. I will break 1-2 cakes and you can grind them with a rolling pin, or in a blender, as you prefer. And one more little secret: so that the cake turns out to be even and does not fall on one side, I put any load on it. At least a regular cutting board and leave it for 10 minutes. Thanks to this simple method, the cake turns out to be even and is soaked even better and faster. I coat the cake with the rest of the cream on top. Sprinkle crumbs on the sides of the cake. Very quick and convenient if you have a rotating cake stand. When I bought an inexpensive stand in the nearest crockery store, I still love it dearly. it is very convenient to decorate the cake with it and it turns out beautifully and neatly. Now I sprinkle crumbs on the top of the cake. I want the middle to remain empty, so I sprinkle only from the sides. And in the center of the cake, I'll rub a chocolate bar. Here is such a beautiful chocolate chip turns out. Oh, it happens in the kitchen))) it's okay, now we'll fix everything)))! All hands are now in chocolate. But the cake turns out to be very cute. How do you like friends? You can grate the chocolate, you can just sprinkle the cake completely with crumbs. cake decorating is always a matter of your taste and imagination. I put the cake in the refrigerator and let it brew. Friends, this is a very successful, and most importantly - a simple cake recipe. New Year is coming soon and a cake without baking can be very useful to you. In the oven, you can safely bake meat or fish on the festive table. and even if you decide to cook the cake at the very last moment, you can safely do it. after all, for our cake, even an oven is not needed. cake products need the simplest: sour cream, flour and sugar. you can easily buy these products at any nearest store, you don't even have to go far. Well, I just can't wait to taste the cake! Look at the cut of our cake - just a thousand and one layers, and a lot of delicious cream! :) The cake is perfectly soaked, tender, juicy - it just melts in your mouth! I was preparing this cake for the guests and they thought it was Napoleon! And when they learned that it was not Napoleon, but Smetannik, they were very surprised! Well, how delicious this cake turned out without baking! You yourself and your guests will be delighted, and your friends will definitely ask for a recipe! :). So be sure to save the recipe so as not to lose it until the New Year and share with your friends and girlfriends on Social Networks;). Friends, if you liked the Smetannik recipe, please write in the comments: I want a cake, and I will often shoot such videos for you. Subscribe to the channel, press the bell next to the Subscribe button. To be the first to watch my new delicious recipes. Olesya was with you on the Cooking House channel. Bon appetit, great mood, be healthy and happy! Bye bye and see you soon!