Everyone knows Bambi's mom dies. BAMBI: &quot;Mother!&quot; I only saw the original and though I recall a sense of loss, I of Bambi's mom. I'm pretty sure someone had recently watched Bambi again to prep for this moment. Disney pulls out all the stops to a constant presence throughout the rest of the a choir fills the role of the wind; bells chime to companion abandons us. The music cuts out, and the GREAT PRINCE: &quot;Your mother Then the shock fades and the score wells my son.&quot; Bambi's father turns away. Bambi meadow--back at his old life with his mother--and HEAVILY DISTORTED MUSIC: &quot;Let's sing a gay little grief to horny gaiety borders on parody. The vapidly cheerful. In all fairness, Bambi was were still a new concept, and none had ever of animated fun and wonder, audiences of a beloved mother figure. BAMBI: &quot;We made What...What the hell?&quot; BAMBI: &quot;Mooother!&quot; are you? BAMBI'S MO--&quot; Despite Walt's attempts this film served as many kids' first brush with cultural consciousness. The rest of Bambi's crystalline moment of loss, to the point that many positioned at the start of the film rather than &quot;Bambi, in fact, is more than a film: It's part Superman, you don't need to engage with the source the crucial plot point: Bambi's mother dies.&quot; seen the movie, Kalder said. &quot;it was in the Watson.'&quot; back in 1942 when the film premiered, strength from the American public. For however alongside this little fawn--for the loss of their for the loved ones who would never return home. they wouldn't get it from Bambi. Walt wanted to the chance to say goodbye to his mother, or see hot potato approach to death gives the film an more contemporary films like The Land Before Time, Finding Nemo...even Onward--films that not only their whole thesis around the concept of loss. Movies, &quot;I remember when we were making The Lion though, is when Bambi's mom get shot she just see her again. Then his dad shows up and says, really sad! And then they go to this new song and they're all singing....the birds are singing So actually we were thinking, 'No,' you know...'He We need to kind of bring closure--some closure to head, here. I'm less disturbed by the death of refusal to look back on the fact. So here's the Bambi: A Life in the Woods by Felix Salten, a the loss of Bambi's mother ripples through almost to Bambi's psyche, [as distorted music grows the wound until at last Bambi succumbs to hole under a tree. Yeah, the book was about plight of minority groups under authoritarianism, have time to add another soap box to my tower Disney looked at THIS and went, &quot;Hurr dee durr, I'll get to work on a follow-up video. Walt, still planned to show the mother deer's lifeless body final cut, but somehow a subset of viewers still mother dies, and I specifically remember seeing who watched Bambi for a film class. &quot;I was shocked movie. I thought maybe it had been censored. classmates and some of them also remember Bambi's lying on the ground, and it's a close image--it's says she also remembers it exactly like that. it had really shocked me.&quot; indeed, this fan mistaken for a screen cap. Here I come back to Bambi's mother, like the soldiers overseas, simply of closure--permission to process the loss and take the imagination to fill in the gaps with grisly this false memory of Bambi's mother in pursuit of body in The Lion King was a direct response to that left Minkoff so disturbed. Mufasa's corpse, grieve, and spares us any exaggerative visions shook audiences, of course--but the pain was Simba tries to escape his traumatic past, a monkey Jeez, what was that for?!&quot; RAFIKI: &quot;It doesn't still hurts.&quot; RAFIKI: &quot;Oh yes, the past can hurt. or learn from it.&quot; RAFIKI: &quot;HA!&quot; I don't mean of grief or whatever. Different people will find fine. But I will argue that Bambi left a kind of Studios went, [while chewing loudly] &quot;Hey...didn't we come to Bambi 2, a movie I was inexplicably a prince does not [in the style of the Black Eyed hoo.'&quot; BAMBI: &quot;He doesn't?&quot; GREAT PRINCE: &quot;He era is distinguished by an aura of obligation. The Enchanted Christmas and The Hunchback of passion; their production was mandated by daddy looked at Bambi, he saw potential. Much of the stories with no room for embellishment...but here its heart. Here was an open wound left untreated opportunity to provide some closure. Bambi 2 picks &quot;Mothe--[gasps]&quot; GREAT PRINCE: &quot;Your mother can't a curmudgeon-y old doe named Nettla looks after the following year in frustrated isolation. In himself takes on the role of Bambi's caregiver. progression from mentor and pupil to father this new connection between Bambi and the great Some part of Bambi still expects his mother to heartbreak to open up to his son. In their own to move on from the death of Bambi's mother--a fact &quot;don't look back.&quot; BAMBI: &quot;...Mother says so! I the meadow--&quot; GREAT PRINCE: &quot;Bambi.&quot; BAMBI: &quot;And play and--&quot; GREAT PRINCE: &quot;Bambi!&quot; GREAT PRINCE: A prince does not look back, only ahead.&quot; In fact, mother made a similar refrain. Her last words to running!&quot; This is the central conflict of Bambi 2: time skip from the original film takes this advice never stopping to reflect upon the body hiding kind of purgatory, I mean...with a prequel, but the author can play around with how the audience knows where the story left off, meanwhile, demands that any development follow author are predetermined by the original work. How the audience knows from the get-go who lives and arc when the character, by mandate of the original with their original timeline? Midquels are Their format requires the text to maintain a decided to pursue a midquel, a famously stagnant the path forward after tragedy. Weird flex, but I'm not gonna lie to you, squad. Bambi 2 is a testament to the DisneyToon artists' skill, but steep for the crew to fully capture Tyrus Wong's Wong's backgrounds are soft--blurred out. A closer curated hard edges. It's the juxtaposition creates a sense of depth. In contrast, even the maintain a wet-on-wet oil paint edge, giving the defined outlines and flat colors isolate them format to its art style to its score, Bambi 2 is a new. 2000's animation software fights to resurrect kind of ghostly technicolor haze, made stark Bruce Broughton's lovely traditionalist the original film...only to be gunned down by the &quot;The First Sign of Spring.&quot; LLOYD (DUMB &amp; DUMBER): world?&quot; [A heavily distorted &quot;The First Sign these conflicted elements make for a confused on a meta level. It feels appropriate for a the past and future. BAMBI: &quot;Mother's resting the past in the past, right?&quot; GREAT PRINCE: Hello there! I quit my retail job! [Screams] I novel about flying rabbits, arson, and my out maybe question mark? I've sent the sequel for updates and bunny photos. Also--Tennelle to let me pick his brain about Bambi! If you're Disney history, and all sorts of behind-the-scenes podcast version of our conversation! the Patreon? I don't think they're gonna you gotta pay rent somehow. This is getting out of voice clip from the original film, first recorded prior to the midquel's release. GREAT PRINCE anymore.&quot; GREAT PRINCE [SECOND FILM]: &quot;Your mother to Patrick Stewart for the rest of the film. DREW PATRICK STEWART: &quot;Barrymore, shut your face!&quot; his dead mother. He wakes...only for his mother's DISTANT SINGSONG-Y VOICE [Carolyn Hennesy, the BAMBI: &quot;Hello?&quot; VOICE: &quot;I'm here...&quot; BAMBI: how many times I watch this scene, it still cheerful facade, and then all at his mother's affect puppeteered And on a meta level, they reanimated--they...they joke? You--they reanimated his mom-- [Gunshot SFX VOICE: &quot;I'm here...helloooo...&quot; The Voice of the meadow. Suddenly crows burst from the &quot;mom,&quot; &quot;man.&quot; The film's art style shifts into the past and present blur as the hunters Prince snaps Bambi out of his stupor, the film's contemporary art style. The Great BAMBI: &quot;She's never coming back, Bambi's dad goes to stand in OP. [Pandora Hearts theme song plays (yes, opportunity...but for the love of god, read the Man's got this stick [dark yaoi music] of us.&quot; It's true that hunters will mimic relax or summon nearby deer--but reuse Carolyn Hennessy's voice gives this American audiences of the 40's, this film Until this moment, Bambi was able to delude really died. Maybe she's still out there, waiting back to the site of her death, where he nearly courting Bambi, leveraging his denial like a lure. familial death to gay birds, Bambi 2 scurries and fart jokes. Then Mena, Bambi's new surrogate Bambi! Don't look back! Keep running! Keep before? BAMBI'S MOM: &quot;Faster, Bambi! Don't look Prince's mind, looking back is dangerous. He the past to die. Of course I beg to differ; how on the past? Unless Bambi and the Great Prince her ghost will haunt them forever. In the his maybe-father take up residence together the rest of Bambi's friends and family by a deep but he knows these attachments will only put him been younger, the old prince had taught him that the old prince revealed many of his insights the most important one was you must learn to if you want to grasp the meaning of you had to learn to live alone.&quot; SQUIDWARD [GREAT I can be all...alone.&quot; VOICES: &quot;Alone. Alone. prince shows Bambi a human corpse and goes off kids wanna see a dead body?&quot; I already touched material--but even in the sacrilegious situated high above the other forest animals play golf or whatever. Back to Bambi 2: In this He can honor his mother's last words and keep MENA: Bambi! near miss seems to prove the Great Prince yourself, you must live alone. We see the Prince ready to push ahead like always...but lo! By Overwhelmed with relief, the Great Prince finds GREAT PRINCE: &quot;I'm here! I'm here...&quot; In this and his father. The film already established the Prince teach Bambi how to survive, while attack forces the Great Prince to face reality: Bambi learned through his friends and family were here! I guess somebody didn't learn their lesson.&quot; by Sixpence None the Richer plays] In turn, a of his mother's death--only this time he's able to sense of closure. When the prince shows he's ready the audience permission to reframe the original imagine scenes of growth and connection; we're time to reflect upon the past and support each &quot;This...this is where I first met your mother.&quot; just about your age.&quot; The end of Bambi 2 promises Frank Salten's book as to generate an alternate To move forward, you must turn back. It's it's two stars on Rotten Tomatoes. Above all, fix-it fic no beta we die like Bambi's mom. I and after all these years I still find myself yet optimistic vibe. I'm sure Disney's upcoming sense of...of dissonance, oh my god. ENTERTAINMENT told in a more contemporary way--&quot; Oh, no. &quot;--In of death too much--&quot; [Nervous laughter] Oh no. Lindsey Anderson Beer in an interview with but with regard to the death of the mother, some than they were in the past.&quot; Ohhh noooo! &quot;She I'm going to go pick some red clover by the the heat death of civilization. Thank you dead deer deep dive. Shoutout to the princes Amy Hollshwandner, Benji M, Broomhilda, Canbekoi, MicaXIII, Miranda (Anidoodles), Raboute, the bottom of my heart. All the good vibes from