Thanks to NordVPN for sponsoring today's video. In The spacecraft Voyager 1 is tasked with exploring currently 24 billion km out, about 6 and a half and Pluto. Conditions are harsh in interstellar field you are constantly bombarded by cosmic rays that any human spacecraft has ever gone. and its power supplies are dwindling, Voyager data about cosmic rays, magnetic fields, and So it was strange when one day, the I'm Alex McColgan, and you are watching Astrum. figure out what was going wrong with Voyager 1, it is still some mystery to what happened. Let's Can you solve the mystery of Voyager 1? Imagine computer for the day, and begin looking through back status updates about its systems, letting you It takes 22 hours now for a signal to reach Earth between you and the craft you're overseeing. than texts. However, today, something is wrong. Instead of precise data explaining exactly what orientation it believes itself to be at, you does not make sense. It suggests that Voyager is be. You quickly check your computer again - yes, its antenna must be pointing towards you, the the strange directions it is claiming, or And not only are you receiving the signal, so it has definitely not changed its comes Voyager 1's latest science data. While over the years Voyager 1 has had to turn off a further 2 have stopped working due to general readings about the interstellar medium, magnetic in any way. You check its other systems. Voyager be expected. The plutonium oxide that fills its Voyager 1 has been travelling for 45 now. It is In fact, the experts believe that Voyager 1 away. It does not explain what is happening just one that is behaving strangely. The AACS This computer is one of 3 on Voyager 1, and 3m antennae continues to point towards Earth. You lean back, puzzled. The situation is not troubling. It's kind of like receiving post from only for some reason he starts speaking another still the same, and they've arrived at the same no sense to you anymore. To further compound anything is wrong with it at all. The spacecraft that it can go into if it detects that anything is these involve it powering down until scientists have not activated. So Voyager 1 believes that all The data is given, the scene is set. This was the A single fault like this might not seem like a going wrong with further systems. And if that is Voyager 1 is by now 23.8 billion km away from you. alongside careful, 22-hour-each-way questions By evaluating the rest of the systems and finding unusual explanations. No, this probably is not Although Voyager 1 carries with it a golden disk race - including images of human biology, and mathematical equations, on the off chance to know about us - it seems that this would be And no, the laws of physics have probably not that is skewing where it thinks it is while Given that the scientific data all appears to likely that the problem lies with the AACS itself. prod and examine Voyager 1, testing theory after fixes things without causing any further damage a backup system. It would not be the first time 1 after the old one stopped working. Voyager 1 is AACS computer that's been used - a previous contemplate just leaving things be. After all it be the end of the world if Voyager 1 simply this could simply be the new normal... except it Can you figure out what was going wrong? However, from just the information in this It turns out that in the intense, radiation-filled made Voyager decide to start using that older, Because of the faults in this computer, the data numbers. So actually, in this case the fix was Voyager to start using the right computer again. On this occasion, it was an easy Voyager 1 is an old ship, now. As it continues encounter more and more faults. And there is the old, broken computer? At the time of writing Unfortunately, some of the systems on Voyager are long since retired. Perhaps this is one mystery though. I hope Voyager 1 will travel further And I also hope you enjoyed this format. To And in order to tackle the larger questions of need solving, such as finding and fixing a scientists were attempting to extract Voyager on Earth we are not always so lucky. Hackers use access to your data and passwords. Once they know money out of you. I myself have been nearly me to enter my personal details - only by noticing avoid getting scammed. But today's sponsor Nord using next gen technology, it can make your data It can also make your location impossible for by NASA, it HAS been recommended by the NSA as a recent launch, they've expanded their suite but to actively defend you from web-trackers, websites. This customisable threat protection keeping you even safer on the internet. Go for a special discount - you can get 4 months risk free thanks to their 30 day