Chris, come on in. This is your first "Yes, yep." You're going to love it. Already busy talking turkey. [TURKEYS GOBBLING] [PHONE RINGING] "Yes, I'd look for "Salt water, yes, "Are you going to or is it going Stuffed, it's 4 and "So a turkey about that size to four days." "Check that off of your "And you can cook them "But see, they're prepared processed." "Right, right." "You should be able to find of those stores in The calls, they're coming Phones come on at 6:00 There are people waiting." "Good morning, May I help you?" "The minute we have the next one is "Butterball Turkey Talk-Line." "Butterball Turkey Talk-line, "Butterball Turkey. Talk-line, how "Last year, we 3,500 for just one day." "People say, you're just a turkey. Well, there's a whole lot So, Chris, I don't know the talk-line. I've been on the talk-line which sounds impressive. But the talk-line has They started with It was all-female They housed all on an old-school Rolodex. We've grown from a team of to a team of over 50. Of course, the the heart of the talk-line. But we also answer our and, of course, [MUSIC PLAYING] On Thanksgiving Week, this It's a seasonal position. Trainings are in October. They work November But then the other 9, 10 a lot of them are outside the talk-line. The group is really "How long have you "I've been doing this "13 years." "So currently, I'm "This is my 21st We've grown up together. We answer any questions particularly turkey. But I did have a man call me How are you doing? I said, O.K. He said, are you I said, well, try me." "Can we start or --" "Yeah, I think we can start. Well, welcome, everybody. We're happy that you're here. You look great in your aprons on here. You will get calls that And the goal here is to phone calls, emails, texts from customers." "Now, even though we cook the training we get "Such a long time ago, they That's it. So the questions were They weren't as And it's not just Some of them are pretty about food safety." "How do I thaw my turkey? Do not allow -- or tell on the countertop. It is not food safe. When in doubt, throw it out." "A lot of changed We're following different "Open-pan roasting method --" "Dorm-room turkey." "The microwave?" "Microwave, "We had one year where all on the East Coast and "There's almost always And that's what makes this become a little bit of You have to pull some And you also need to talk them we can work through this. Thank you, folks, [APPLAUSE] "You're turkey experts now." [MUSIC PLAYING] "Just got in last night. Yes, this is my life for complete with Which bed is yours? "This one's me. I probably commute I actually reside in And our call center is So I'm originally from so that's one of the reasons Turkey Talk-Line, as well. My sister Roz, who is as sweet too. My mom's two first cousins. Mom, CC said, what "She has some leftovers. She has a choices. A couple of chicken Another piece of hams, potato And you, too." "Thank you." "O.K., you're But you can have all that you have in the "Oh, my goodness." "I'm a person who learned how from their mother, but not cook. So if I was interested in less than bland, then I with it so it "Well, I have never even correctly." "We don't want to "Oh, I'm sorry." "This is just a natural Learning and mastering "I told everybody I knew and they could make a call "She has people thinking and literally be "One of our friends and asked to speak to "And they're more than There was this woman, who was the jazziest [MUSIC PLAYING] "Do you want me to Do you cook for "Oh, yeah, we have a little couples and singles. I do belong to I have a wonderful book club, I have an eating group, I have a Dairy Queen group, and have something else I went to college and majored That's what they called it. Then I taught for many years. Then I was testing a I came here because I was You start with a grape, this then two sides in coconut, and that's it. And I wanted more background So they had a test And they had a small lab where So I came here And I decided when I worked I'm going to work at I retired. I called the director. We met at Denny's, had We have had celebrities here Show." "The meat thermometer "188?" "Yes." "Get out of there. It's going to blow." "You have to be very careful calling, and they're People are crying A young man he wanted to give his And he said, I'd like to I said, I don't think an engagement ring Do you? I'll tell you a funny A woman was making And whatever little kid They bring the they go into the stuffing, had put his toy little cars. He said he put You're up close and That's one of the great That's why I stayed "Jefferson, do you remember "That first week, And as we get closer to the pace picks up. We do get crank calls We always chalk that up to have enough to do, so now a crank call. I'm glad I was able to You enjoy your day. Thank you." "On average, how many calls?" "100, maybe, to 150 a shift. Maybe more. I think one of my farthest And may I have your All righty, thank "And what's the purpose "If we get consistent that helps us I really enjoy Some of the when you know that the in a food-safe manner. Well, I did have a was convinced it was a prank. He had a 20-pound turkey. And he was not patient in cold water, which So he decided he would Most often, they have a light I'm going to get I started my career And I'm the second food I stand on the shoulders of who came before me looking in the food industry." [MUSIC PLAYING] "The boats, I like the boats." "O.K." "I am the purchasing manager I had heard about the I used to love a show and there was an episode where featured." [VIDEO PLAYBACK] "Butterball has a hotline?" "Yeah, it's an 800 number. The phones are "Are you kidding me?" [END PLAYBACK] "I just never knew it was [MUSIC PLAYING] "During the day, I take all the ordering for all the Then once that's done, I including a purchasing class. Then when I'm done with to our culinary library, and get to work. A lot of stress in terms of balancing the job. But I'm able to ask for the things. You said you already for this Thanksgiving? A woman from New that, she was very upset have any meat in it. I just offhandedly do you think maybe you and you're cutting And it turns out that We do not recommend that. It tends to make the So if you like the skin you do not have to No, no, no, no, You're doing perfectly well. We're obviously not seeing so we got to listen to "Say that again?" What is Thaw Thursday? "It's a national [MUSIC PLAYING] "We know that if you take your Thanksgiving, it'll be for Thanksgiving Day." "We can be really "You're on. You're animated for hours "It's going to take about four defrost in the refrigerator." "Put like a cookie sheet with it in case there's "Cook it on Carve it completely, "Oh, my pleasure. Happy Thanksgiving." "You never know if someone's a bad holiday. A great takeaway would be "You were cooking up a "A few of us donate our time other because We're family here. We want to make has a great Thanksgiving. We all work through "That's O.K. That's O.K. It's one of the biggest you have an older person on "Their mother always and she was no longer alive. And so I said, you know what, get this gravy made. Right now, let's go. I was on the phone is a longer call than usual. But at the end, she said, oh, You're an angel. We're going to pray for you. So it's not like your work People are grateful "I'm not doing I do it because I do it because I'm I do it because I think I'm "It satisfies the in all of us to That's it. O.K., you'll make [MUSIC PLAYING] Do you mind? I can't really see your face. "Be happy then." If you could describe on the talk-line, how What was your experience? "Busy." "Frantic, but rewarding." "Once they turned on "Busier than all "It was a once-in-a-lifetime Butterball asked me and one of America' for their I went from not really a Butterball Talk-Line was America.'" "I did get a caller who was year. Now the chances of that are "Caller called in, and Thanksgiving dinner for the their mom, who was always If I could say luckily, My mother's sister, who has she ended up getting sick So this Thanksgiving, But for our purposes on the "So I've already blocked on my calendar." "This year, I'm actually bit." "Do you know what? I enjoy it a lot, And I will come back as to invite me." "This is the first year I'm It's going to be hard for I've done this over 20 years. I'll never forget Never forget about it."