Miami seems like a good place to reflect upon greed is watching a baby feed and a very young infant feed. Now, that's pure greed. Pure greed. It's just there is no self-consciousness about it at all. And then we get socialized and we mix greed with a liberal dosage of guilt and shame to control our greed. Then later, we mix it with rational rationalizations, a rational structure to control our greed, using our intellect. So when we are a controlled greed instrument, We still have the greed. We still want what we want Because when we're getting we have a certain feeling of, Yeah. Oh, right on. You know, when you're really thirsty and there's no water and you've got a long distance to go and you finally get to a point where there's a cool glass of water. Ooh. Or you need to go to the bathroom and you're on a long bus trip. Oh, yeah? Mm hmm. That moment of getting just what it is that you wanted. It's the moment when you merge. You were somebody wanting the water. It's like with sex. It's very clear. You want the orgasm. You think? Here it comes. Here it comes. And then there it goes. There it goes. There it goes. But at the moment, at the moment, Nobody's thinking. This is it. There isn't anybody there But that lasts about that long, unless you're can get it out of there. So, Master of the selfless moment, the moment when you're not busy The moment of flow now in the culture has been changing, and we're throwing off So what happens then? Everybody tries to come back to basic to get what they want when they want it. When you're hungry, you eat. Then you see people swelling Just out of pure greed. More and more ease, more and more comfort, more luxury, more, more. Wah, wah, wah, wah, wah, wah. If I get just a little bit more, it'll be just enough. And for those moments, it is. It is not. The problem is that those are moments in time and a moment later they're gone. You're all masters of going up and coming down. You know how to get up there and you also know how to get down. And most of you, come down. You buy a new car. You get behind the driver's. We'll get that rush. Oh, just the fantasy I had. Here it is. $4,000 later. I got it. You zoom down the road, the moment a few days later, this is squeak New dance. The moment is passed. People who are designing their lives around, try to get those moments Because if you can get them in close you may not notice the space between them. So right in the middle of dinner. Like, what's for dessert? You're in dessert. Nicolson Coffee. Let's bring the coffee. Let's go to the movies in the middle of the movies. Why don't we do after the movie? It's going to ice cream soda. Ice cream soda. Let's take a walk. Taking the walk. Let's go to bed and go to bed. What's in the refrigerator? And so it goes on and on and on. Always just getting ready for the next one there's not going to be a space because God forbid, there should be a space. And the fantasy of the society is if you have enough money and enough power, You'll be able to bring it on. You get them in It'll just be jetting to Tokyo for breakfast Right. That's it. But television, as the obvious media medium, has not somewhat of a hole in that fantasy because it confronts right between your feet, your own bedroom, with faces of those people who made it. And if you look in close, the vibration often isn't one you want. As if I made it by everything society said I should do to make it. And where is the pot of gold? What's wrong? But why worry? The sun will be up tomorrow. It'll be warm and toasty. I'll just worry about Keep my kids alive, get a little sun, Smoke little grass. It's okay. I'll fill. I'll fill. But there is a moment when you don't want to fill any more. When the futility of your predicament of grabbing at things that are in time becomes too apparent. When that happens for an individual. He experiences despair, and in the midst of that despair is the seed of the next stage of his growth of awareness. You are here in this room, almost without exception, because you recognize what I am talking about, that even if you are in the midst of collecting it all, of having good home, good family, good insurance policies, good sun, good nature, good social responsibility, good health food, good clothes, good friends. Back inside of you is saying, What is it back in here that's yearning for Is it? Is this just neurosis? And we just a collective We may well be. By the way, this may be the dissatisfaction of an affluent society, grasping at straws or it may be that we are part we are sort of pods. We are those things We are the leading edge in which we are now reaching for something more profound, deeper in the universe. Obvious shifts. For example, in this group. Many of you are shifting from identifying with that feeling towards the universe of my job is to master and control my environment. Shifting to my work is to hear and flow Now that's an entirely different ego structure. That is a shift in consciousness. That is the answer to the ecological Attempting to control nature. That's called in Chinese philosophy. The down the flow, the harmony being in tune with being an instrument of the universe instead of a master of it. But what a humble ego to be willing to do that. If that were Henry Kissinger, he would have to listen That's the difference between a politician and a statesman. That's the difference and a wise man. We are collectively in training to become wise persons, a wisdom that is going to be reflected Our actions are going to reflect the shifts in consciousness Now, actually, who you are has another level of significance that some of you will find difficult to hear, And it concerns issues of reincarnation and karma of who you are. See, at one level, North Miami Beach High School and you think you are a man or a woman or a boy or a girl or some mixture. But you have so many levels of identity, Why do you pick that particular reality Because it's being fed by your senses and by your thinking mind. Until your I be single, until you only see with the third eye, you are hooked on these eyes. These there is this nose, And that creates which reality. And they're all tuned And on that frequency Beach High School. But who I see you to be is, for the most part, you are. I've been through the example many times, but it's such a vivid image It's a good one. So one of the flipping of the switch by the eyes, the your perceptual apparatus See if you tune in to channel a channel, let's say channel two on your television What you see when you look out at You see, man, woman, big little old, young, dark light, muscle bent knows this, that whatever. Right. If you're that's what you see in everybody else. If you think you've got a funny looking when you walk down the street is right? If you think you don't have the right and the physical reality, if you are horny, once you notice in all people are who is makeable? Who is a competitor with you for and who is irrelevant. And that's the reality. That's what you see. That's watching all the girls or the boys go by in this magazine. One more and let now, when you look at another person, once you see that is as if two mirrors were placed You see itself looking at itself, looking at itself, looking at itself For you have moved the plane of the ancient one of the one where there's only one of us here. In that reality, there is one of us here talking to itself. We are making believe we are the many. We are playing as if we're many. So we can play out this dance. We are all in drag because when you rip off, the mask is only one of it. Right? And I am talking to myself. The now, the minute you left the psychological, went to the astral plane, North Miami Beach High School right, Right. Which of these realities is you? Who are you? Who do you think you are in? Are we just to complete the game? We'll just go one more, one more flip. You disappear, I disappear. The television receiver disappeared. We have just entered into the formless called the Void. Not nothing. That's something. These are all relative realities. Physical, psychological, astral, soul, one. All of those But they are all relatively real. No one of them is absolutely real. And if you try to stand in one of them, you're going to have to deny And if you are standing in one of them is my psychological self, or a vision or your consciousness offers, you say, I was out of my mind or I had a hallucination. In the New York Times last year, there was an article a study done on Mysticism in America, and it said 2/5 of the population of the United States mystical experience. That's an enormous number of people who have gone outside of their ego structure. A sampling of those 2/5, 85% said it was the most profound experience of my life, Can you hear that? Because it upset the apple cart? Because if you want to hold on here, and suddenly you've been catapult it out experiencing oneness with the universe, And if you built a whole game you are So it is true that most people in society are pushing away experiences that indicate that they have an identity in order to hold tightly to the plane they are comfortable with. Now, what is liberation A liberated being is somebody who has moved out of the reality that they thought was absolute initially in their life into another reality and another reality and another reality. And they are liberated from being stuck in any single reality. Somebody we call psychotic is in a reality other than the one to say. Like the example I gave, I think in the only dance who was thinking he was Christ and the psychiatrist Right. And they both were in a room together, convinced the other one was insane. They and but the insanity I didn't stay functioning in any reality, I said, clinging to any reality. A conscious being functions in all realities. And you have your astral identity and your psychological identity And your identity is the one. And you are beyond identity That's what the game is. What John Morley call his house. Please, who you are in an evolutionary sense is somebody to awaken to your predicament of a limited reality. That's it. If you think of the image of a clock, 12:00. Perfect harmony in the universe, perfect flow metaphor you can work with about 12:00 Garden of Eden. Everything is in relation There is no separateness within that perfection. God has said man has choice. That's part of the perfection choice to do what? Choice to act in opposition to the will of God, in opposition to the flow, to the harmony. If you cannot get into of Eden story, it will teach you before eating the apple, which is the apple of knowledge in which man goes into duality dualism in which he then knows but no longer is. He has separated himself He wants to know not just be following eating of the apple. God finds him and God says to him, and to Eve, Who told you you were naked? Where did separateness come from? Where did shame come from? Why do you even think your separate? Because the minute you start to think about something, from the flow. Now be careful, I'm merely doing what Vivekananda talked from being a master to being a servant. Okay. 1201 You ate the apple. You at the apple, by the way, right now you suddenly look around and you see it all, but you are no longer You are experiencing the beginning of alienation and you are cast out of the Garden of Eden, out of the flow, Let's flow from 1201 to 559 birth after birth after birth after birth. You are born into your separateness again And each time the control with your separateness what you had at 12:00 but In other words, you want to be God That's what somebody in Miami Beach wants, is to be God where he wants. 559 Everything you have done birth after birth, and you know how many births I mean, I can't do enough after births, the Buddha gives the example. Remember this story? Buddha said, if you took a mountain that was the width, the length to walk in one day, It's six miles long, six miles wide and six miles high. And every hundred years, a bird flies by the mountain and it runs the scarf in the length of time scarf to wear down the mountain. That's how long birth? Yeah. Birth. Death. Birth? Yeah. If you want to get just look at how many times you blink Those are like, lifetimes. It's just the time change. Time shift. This whole thing you're involved in All right. You've said that Okay, This is the one. I'm going to do it right. Just one more pizza. Right? And there it is. Another birth, another pizza. And we start another dimension of this evening. For those of you that know these words, words of birds. Sit straight and keep rising on the energy All right. Let the words flowing out. You don't have to turn off that reality But you can go beyond the words here to the words are to keep the intellect calm so another process can go on and then 6:00 to spare. I have tried every strategy and be in control of it And I can't do it. Despair. Despair is the prerequisite for awakening. 601 Right in the middle of a birth, you began to awaken. Now, why do I say Because between birth you have awaken each time, only to go to sleep again. As you took birth. But often you resisted the awakening between birth. So your person would say It's 730 or 8:00 who's already awakening during a birth is different than somebody at 4:00 who denied I never want to The person at 430 dies. They're dying. They say, Save me, save me. I don't want to die. I don't want to die. Do whatever you need to do. And then they're dead. And a moment later, a voice says to them, Welcome. And they say, If I'm hearing a voice saying, Welcome, And the voice is, No, you did die for a person at 430, I hear confusion. That confusion can last It's called purgatory. 830. However, you're dying. You're dying. I don't want to die. I don't want to die. You still don't want to die at 830? You know, not give a damn. Still around 1115 at 830. I want to die. I want to die. Welcome. I guess I didn't die. No, you did die. At that moments, you had during your previous birth look over into figure And you say far out and all that stuff that happened to me was real. And then you're wide open. And then you are a collaborator for your next round. You work with the Cosmic Karmic Council in the in the realm of the astral Sugars in planning the next dance. But there are more surprises in store yet for as you get up near 11:00, you're working out all of your karma and you're awake during Get to 1159 No choice. 1159 at that points you can merge back in to give up the last vestige of separateness that's left which is merely the thought of I. That's all that's left Or you can push against the final merge and stay in form. And why would you stay in form? Not because of your personal desires Because you don't have any. You stay in form because of what? In Tibetan you stay in form because of the suffering of all sentient beings. That's what a guru is. It's a being who is staying in form in order 1159 Where are you? 3:00 5:00 You're at least past 6:00. You wouldn't be in this room. Seven 3930 quarter. Well, are these moments on Could you go through the entire clock in one birth? There is no fixed time. No time units. It's the karmic clock and the final realization at 1159 is that the entire clock was an illusion. For that moment, path and pilgrim and goal merge into one. And you see that the entire clock was within the illusion of time. When Buddha says meaning you already are fully enlightened, you're merely busy thinking you are not. And the entire sadhana, the entire path is the path of awakening you out of your illusion of separateness, to acknowledge who you already are. Thus nobody teaches you anything. They merely remind you and that what you are seeking is not out there. It doesn't lie in me, The only difference is that I'm not as attached to who I think I am as you are. The act of meditation is the act of transcending models or models of who you are. To recognize yourself. So what is it you want this lifetime? What is it you want? Somebody at 430 wants more pleasure. Somebody at 830 wants to return to the source, wants to know God wants to become enlightened, wants to be free, wants to be realized. Who wants to be liberated from suffering? A person at 830 recognizes Buddha's four knowable truths that the cause of suffering Help me free myself from clinging and attachment so that I might end suffering. Let me be free. At 430, you try to optimize pleasure You try to get high and avoid the low. At 830, you say Everything in my life, are all grist for the mill of going home. I will eat it all and it's even farther out than that because at that points you are suffering becomes functional for your awakening. You are suffering literally becomes grace. That's a heavy one. At that point, far out, it's and you are more interested than you are just getting high. Again. Then you are ready to take life as it comes towards you without defining this, but not that I want a new Cadillac, but I don't want cancer. Hey, by 10:00 you're ready to say new Cadillac? Oh, cancer. Oh, life, death. Oh, pleasure. I decay because all of it is seen only in relation to that television channel in which the soul is going home the plains is grist You use it all and your life at this moment statement. Perfect. Most of you sit around saying, If only whatever. If only if only. I was 20 years younger, A different sex, whatever. If only by around 9:00, that's all over. You're looking at just how it is the same furrow. Well, what am I going do with this one? Now? This is where it becomes because as you keep flipping these real is this too heavy or are you I'm sorry I'll get lighter after a while. It's just. I don't know why it's. Whatever this vibration. When you are busy identifying with your suffering, you are a tremendously socially concerned and you think of all the suffering, When you shift these channels a little bit and you ultimately look up, it's and you begin to see all of the forms of the universe in perfect harmony with one another, and you begin to experience the perfection of the flow, including the suffering, the violence, the starvation, etc.. At that moment you look at the universe and you say from your great hide, You say it all perfect. Now, if you stop in that reality, you can be very, very high in the Buddha mind. But you forgot the bleeding heart of the Christ. The liberated being is the being and seeing the perfection of it all and looking down and seeing the blood on the snow and seeing the suffering. The balance is that you High School, you must honor your incarnation You cannot deny it, living among many human beings, unbearable. That balance the balance of the Buddha mind of seeing the emptiness of forms and the perfection and at the same moment, keeping your heart wide around you, and using your incarnation That is the balance. That is the statement of liberation. If you get so high, if you're walking down the streets so high and you don't bother to help them up you forgot God in form. If you're so busy that you forget at that moment, including the fall God in the formless that it's a tough path to have the strength to keep it together in form and forms, to relieve suffering and to work with suffering. See how you deal with suffering depends on the level of consciousness of the example that I use before. If somebody comes to you I would like to do a fast And I say, All right, fast for nine days. And they come to me, it's seven days I say, Great, go right ahead, fast. Some more. If I then walk out on the street Hey, man, I haven't eaten in seven I don't say to him, You're doing fine. Proceed right. And there's the quarter because his level of consciousness, he's busy suffering. The other being is using the suffering It's the same thing. They both the need for seven days. One person is busy being the person The other person's being the person No judgment. One person's of for 31 persons at 9:00, you don't judge that. A person that's 40 is better than a person They're just 20 years older. The beings around you represent different ages of incarnation your brothers and sisters, all different. For a moment you might meet in the journey no matter how hard because you are at different You have different work to do. You held by Freedom to Live are to love me and all this, and I picture that happening. It is felt very good back then and it was so funny this morning. The next minute I picture myself going home from here and not being able to have with my father. I hated him. It was instant hate recognizing your feeling of wanting to be understood and loved and held by him. And his ability to do that are quite different things that you are a denial of that that's what blocks you. Once you know you have that feeling, then you can begin to hear who he is and experience with some compassion. His predicament of being unable or to be unable to be the kind of father that you might want. It's as if once you know that you are beautiful, acceptable, then when other people don't like you, you see it as their problem, Until you have allowed your own beauty You always see it as yours. In all paranoia, So the first step of the game is what you started which is acknowledging As long as you are straight then if people can fulfill them, sure. Go through self pity and anger But you'll begin to appreciate that They're stuck in what they're stuck in, and you sit with your feelings and allow them to be who they have to be and your life will be that of somebody who needs love And you go through self-pity Well, But to make believe you don't want it where the trap is. Can you hear that? Yeah. One dies as one lives. Mahatma Gandhi walks into his garden He gets shot, All he says is Ram just the name of God. He just has time, because he's so already with God through his life's work that the moment of transition of body is just another moment So once, once that starts to fall into place really the essence of a dying retreat becomes the essence of a living retreat. And then the question is the moment as a way to become optimally conscious, And so then you start to examine the various components of life in order that we're just talking about now. Because what you find I've said, but the big chunks of life I totally unconscious that you say, Oh, yes, I understand this. I understand what my life is about, And somehow that anger never comes into the rest of it. It just stays in this little compartment. And what happens to a relationship that the meaning of the events and the experiences of your life is to awaken to be fully conscious And you because I need love, But if you push this, you see that ultimately everything And you have relationships and you have relationships in order and to awaken out of the illusion And that's the real essence It's the vehicle for awakening out of the illusion of separateness. And when you understand these, the integration of this higher wisdom you begin to see how relationships are a form of devotional or dualistic. They're a form of yoga they're a form of coming into union, Now, what you see in other human beings is very, and by your perception of yourself and by your own preoccupations. Now, if you are busy, When you say, I am somebody who is dying, in terms of who's living and who's dying. If you are somebody who doesn't like your body image, you are inclined image. If you are somebody who is preoccupied with your own depression, for example, to look at other people in terms of their happiness. Why can't I be happy like she is? If you have a very judging mind in which you are judging yourself then you see other people as judging you all the time. You tend to project outward what is familiar to you, You assume other people so that if you are preoccupied with your sexual desire system and that colors your perception you will see other people And by the same token, if you think that you are God that's what you'll see in other people. I recall when I was with Morarji, I felt so inadequate and so unworthy that I would continually to him, How can you send me back where people are going to want I'm not a dharmic person. I'm a totally impure person. I've got all these this lust and this power tripping us And what are you doing? You just sending me into the lion's mouth You don't give me anything I said the worst thing can imagine is that that I can do stuff that will create karma by creating something. And I said, I'm just too impure. Maharaj looked at me and he looked at me And he looked at my hair and my head, and he looked and he came up really close And then he he had me turn around and I turned around. He looked in my ears and he looked And he did this whole routine. It was a marx Brothers routine. And when I got all the way back around, And he said And of course, my first reaction was that silly old man, you know, because I obviously any but you see, any fool sees their own foolishness and what he saw was his own godless. Now he didn't see with my impurities, which was feeding He was saying, you know, maybe there's That seemed to be the met, And if you are preoccupied with power, as I have been most of my life, then you will see and you'll be afraid of being controlled in every relationship Those are all power related things, and that's because of your own feelings of inadequacy or whatever. The way the mind works is often to develop concepts and then to live within the concepts so that you develop a concept And then you live in terms rather than in the immediate experience between two human beings. So, for example, if you experience yourself as being a wise person and somebody else is being unwise and you are caught in that label, then even if they say something wise, because you're so caught in your labeling. We've got to find behind all the symbology that there are living, We've got to see through the symbology. We can only see through the symbology are cut through. When we've gotten rid And if you need those things, For example, if you need to be a nurse, and you need to be a nurse, and then you load somebody in order to satisfy If you need to be helpful, then you need people who are helpless. If you need to be sadistic, you need people who are masochistic to the extent that you identify with any social role whatsoever, then you will seek out somebody to enter into a symbiotic relationship. So you scratch my neurosis and I'll scratch yours. You let me be holy because you be profane. I am somebody who needs to love but be rejected. So you need to be somebody. I am somebody who needs to love So you've got to be somebody So that honing device, it's so incredible People say, I don't know. I always end up here, and they're always surprised. Every bit of information about all of us that I am and then you say, Oh, I just want to be with you, you see, And then when they screw you, you say, if and when you look at the world in terms of this kind of symbiosis you see this incredible game going on, conscious, There's a comic book called The Doctor Strange Series, and in the Doctor Strange series, section is people come down the street and they have these huge nits And these nets are full of statements I am, This is who you are, This is who I am. This to you. So somebody goes down the street This is who you are. This is how it is. Somebody else goes down. This is who I am. This is who you are. This is how it is. Somebody else goes down the street This is who I am. And and the game was to knit everybody And the nets would come and they would would climb into it. And and it's extremely interesting to be around that they are used And then they really need If everybody gets caught in your game, Do you hear that one? If you win, you lose. And that's the horror of it. That's the horror of the way and then seduces everybody into them but it's secure in your prison room. And that's the horror. When the door is open because you too secure in the prison room. Yeah, well, how might you see other people, how much you see individual differences and other people? There is the matrix of individual differences of the body. So when you look at another person, you see man, woman, tall, short, old, young, fat, thin. You see physical characteristics, you see walls, you see pretty, you see weird looking, you see whatever you see. Those are all the qualities If you look at a matrix of individual you see a sad, happy, achieving, depressed, lonely, dependent, joyful seeking, God intelligent acting. You see a whole set of into another that within the personality that's two matrices. Then there's a third matrix individuals in terms of there's a Leo or That's another individual difference matrix based on your your astral body. And those are all the ways I am different from you, is different And you can make the whole matrix Those are three matrices when you live only in the realm then you get stuck again and again. In the world of judgment, Better or worse, it's better to be young than old. It's better to be fat and thin, And it's very weird when you move from But if you see other beings, and you see that there is just another another soul, another ray of God and Another bit of awareness all of this stuff, manifestation or its predicament. And all these individual differences and you don't confuse the contents or the containers as this case maybe. But if you confuse yourself you you're going to confuse other people If you are busy thinking if you primarily think you are sick or young, if you primarily think you are That's the reality and that's what you create for And that ends up in judging better or this, or a less good or a darker or a lighter or a good or evil to look and see in another person. That other thing that's just like you means that you can look as the karmic unfolding, and then you can get into a space You may judge their actions, And that is the realm in which unconditional love can exist. I love you because you are God in form. So what is the essence of conscious human relationships? If you look at any relationship, is like a pyramid in which there are two points down here Take a marriage, the vehicle of marriage. When you use marriage as a side, the way in which you use it is to work through the relationship in order to arrive at the place But there are two bodies, two astrology is In other words, you work. The relationship exists where there is and you use the two to arrive at the one. And it gets so that and there is one mind and these two hands and this hand is busy being the left hand they are just two hands doing their part So there is one awareness and two people now to use a relationship that way. That is the process of what I started using relationships to see who the other person yourself are through the relationship. For a relationship to do that requires a tremendous amount of consciousness and space and meditation and intent. And it is hard work. As most of you who have ever been have found out, because in that one, in order to realize the oneness of the two, every bit of identification you have with has to be given up. You've got to give up the two into the one, It's the difference between I am a man versus I am God. That is being a man. You go from an identity with a two into an identity with the one comes It has to go in. But what happens is, as the two go towards to love, you are dying into awareness, And that oneness is called or it's called truth. And because of our attachment, our karmic attachment to our separateness, when a marriage or a relationship starts to work too well, we freak out. And what you usually see in relationships being one person is running away, pulling back, and the other person is opening. I love you. Why aren't you there for me Then after the other person's they say, Well, screw you, they pull back, the other person starts and they start to go and it doesn't really matter It's just so that they will. It's a conspiracy Because when you fall into love, And so a conscious relationship has to energy And it's in a good relationship Because usually when the fire gets hot, Everybody starts to get singed soul doesn't burn, ego burns, The ego starts to burn. The minute it starts to burn, it immediately Hello. Good morning. I love you all. It's all can be done. All the rituals can be done. But there's no juice in it anymore. The living truth went out of it And I'd say most of the couples that are having a hard time. They have the potential of incredible But they got frightened And then they both felt hurt And the whole process And the way it is opened up is by wanting that the two of you are willing to deal and the truth of, the confusion and stay in it and be able to sit with another person and not say, I won't tell her That's the one that corrodes The result is The minute you have something in yourself, I become him. I am no longer us. If you and I agree, We're going towards the one we are us. But then I start to have, say, sexual desires for someone else. And I don't want to tell you that because it might hurt you, So I say, Well, I won't tell you that the minute I do that, I have set up a part of my mind which is now closed off to you. And every time I am that part of that mind, you must become an object. You are no longer us. You must be her or him. And if there is nothing then you and I are us. Like somebody is taking care of you and you really are a little angry Or you wish they would stop or you'd like to ask them to do it, because your fear And so the result is you say, Oh, well, I'll just keep it inside myself. And the other person, if they are sensitive, just feels I can watch, I'll tell you what I see. I see that when their mind is in a place there is a liquid luminous doorway And I can look in and in and in And the minute which they can't tell me something, that is that place I see an opaqueness and. It's just as if a door closed and I get this cold feeling I mean that's what people they get paranoid, People don't understand how sensitive relationships are spirit demands living truth living truth is, and what price you are paying for keeping it nice. The niceness between somebody who is being a patient the niceness between a husband and a wife, And I'll tell you, because we are dying in it and most of you, in that environment Truth and human relationships, it's so when you are ready, what you offer, when you want to be out of your own prison is the work you do on yourself. And the work you do on yourself no longer identified So all of your stuff and all of your and sexuality and embarrassments which is connected with those matrices You are no longer identified with them. So you want them, you can have them. You want the fact that I mean, I'm perfectly willing to tell you that I'm paranoid, that that you want them, you can have them from you because I need that flow because Because the spirit is that flow. And the minute I turn off that flow with my perversion or my anxiety or my anger or my insecurity, I stopped the flow, I froze it. It all turns it calcified. It becomes an institution. And suddenly Don't get too close, So what do you offer someone else? You offer them your truth. You offer them the irrelevance of your stuff. You can imagine how refreshing truth is and you're taking care of them Are you begrudging because they're taking all you're doing is creating your own And you're also that exists between people and you're And you just did it again. It takes a little bit longer and it's a little more painful and it's And the thing is with other people That's the problem. The distinction isn't that you have to tell everybody The important thing is that you have Okay? And that's the key one. You may meet other people with whom you've entered into a contract because it's a living marriage, Then you share everything. But otherwise you merely have in far as you're concerned, Then you are an open, free environment and the other person can And can you imagine what it is like to be nursing b b being a nurse in relation to someone in which you are merely right here and you get your stuff and you get angry which you acknowledge and it's right here. And if the other person says, How are you You can say how you're feeling have to go out and say, you know, You don't have to do it. That's a psychological thing to have to. You've got to listen to hear And each person has to get If somebody wants to stay in their prison, you have the moral obligation You have no right to force and destroys prison walls. I'd like to go through the aspects of this retreat and reflect about how they fit into a daily life practice or what we mean by daily life practice. Yesterday, we talked about relationships with a relationship and just to clarify any misconceptions, we're talking about truth in marriages The implication is not that you have to be truthful with somebody who doesn't want to be truthful. The implication is That's the important thing, that you could It doesn't mean you lie. It just means unless the contract with another human And some marriages are vehicles for awakening Some are marriages They were based originally on passion or on psychological compatibility economic facility or cultural expectation. There are a number of reasons and those motives come and go. Often the passion leaves and people don't Now, some marriages are convertible and then the marriage becomes which becomes your major vehicle But it may not be it may be a nice marriage And then, you know, meditation And the marriage I ultimately will be affected but you start out working with You don't start out demanding because it isn't all usable immediately. All the ultimately every tiny bit of your life is touched, and naturally in its own time Like what you eat, how you earn your money, what you wear, what you think about, where you go, why you go there, how you get there. All of these are aspects that can awaken or not. You may have a job that is right live but it's a job among very unconscious good beings, but relatively unconscious Some support for that awakening and you're ready when you come into a sudden sun, beings, you're ready to say, Well, because it's not conscious enough. But maybe that job at this time wherewithal to be able to do And maybe what you need to do is learn and your early mornings and it isn't clear that you have to melodramatically shift just because you start to sense In fact, let me caution you against the melodrama of the spiritual journey. We have an incredible capacity to romanticize our lives. You know, who will I marry, who I love, Am I happy? Am I getting enough or I'm dying too Ooh, and all this kind of romance And we are such tragic, romantic figures. Every one of us, you know? If only if only, if only. And it's all so dramat. And then suddenly we've awakened. And it's a whole new drama And you go tell all your friends and you and you're very romantic and you had to dramatically change I don't do that anymore. I'm awakened and you'll pay karmically for all you romanticism, I will tell you, because the spiritual journey ultimately is really not very romantic at all. It's a very humdrum just cleaning up your act, quieting down, not getting caught in the drama, even to be attached getting enlightened Okay, so one one doesn't have to make splashy, changes in one's life You can do just in the kind of stuff Now, it's always an interesting question miss a step in the dance And what I'm always impressed with is people who can make the transformations externally. There's continuity and internally because every act you are doing, you've got now, from the consciousness or the consciousness you will have. The same act its effects will be entirely different. You can feed human being, you can say hello to another human being, you can do any human act, and it will have an entirely different depending on who's doing it I've visited Ananda, my mother, many times in India. She's an absolutely beautiful just such an incredible thing. And the times I visited her each time she has been singing once she sings before, a lot of people and they are all just and she talks to people But she just sort of sings either or she's just sort of crooning it and she's just singing to Bhagwan, to God, Jai Ohm, Bhagwan China. Bhagwan Jai owned by one tune Love on child, Love one child by one child. Love, love, child, Love one John who? Child You love one child one child one just is just such a sweet love song to God in his she just whispering to a lover. And I've crossed the I have in my Dodge Ram a cruise control happening. Cruise control and then the car just runs And when I'm crossing the country, sometimes I'm sitting and I'm just staring across the country. And I'm just day after day John And move on. CHILD One child one line. And very slowly, those words which are just words but the Pretty soon you look at the gas station for gas inside your I'll plug one and his bag one and you just taking the whole country when I started to do those things It was the first time I ran out of country So I got to the ocean too soon I just wanted more of it. Now. That's Now. Is it driving to work in which during your sudden you happen I'm trying to give you a sense of the flow at work that it doesn't have to be. I do spiritual work. It just sort of creeps into your life these silent, silent fingers of stuff into the way in which you live your life, That's like going from reading things that give you a rush or fasten you or collect stuff or simplifying your mind, mind. Yeah, yeah, I, I work a great deal with was the third Chinese patriarch and it's a little thing called the since and Ming which means the heart mind sutra and I just carry this little book with me all the time it's 48 pages long. It's everything that he wrote. And there's enough work in here for me for this lifetime. Just these two lines. The great way, of things, the harmony the great way is not difficult have great way is not difficult Just look at your life you have. You prefer pleasure over pain, prefer life over death, Prefer friends over aloneness, prefer freedom over imprisonment. Where are your attachments? Where are you claims you prefer love over hate? Do you prefer any? Are you stuck in But make the smallest distinction and heaven and earth are set infinitely apart the slightest distinction and you already create hell if you wish to see the truth and hold no opinions for just set up what you like against. What you dislike Boy, you live by that you realize how spacious you have to be That's the fiercest kind of philosophy that I can And I like to have that kind of fierce friend who hangs out with me, who keeps reminding me This should be this And I want everybody to be this. And wouldn't it be better if this instead of just being spacious with that, It doesn't mean you don't have opinions. It means you are not attached It doesn't mean It means you're not attached You can prefer blue or green and deciding when you go in. When there's a choice, But if you end up with green also remember the ISO during ISO story of the monk who lived in a monastery and the local girl down in the village by the fisherman, she didn't want to lay it so she said it was the monk So when the baby was born, the townspeople and they knocked on the gate and the monk opened the door This is your baby, And he said, Ah, So we took the baby and closed the gates. I mean, his the guy's whole life And his first reaction is, ah, so nine years later the girl was dying and she didn't want to die And she said to the people, Look, it was the fishermen. And they were horrified. And they went up to the monastery and And that was his nine And they said, We made a terrible mistake. This isn't your child. And from now And you're free now Oh, Oh, So he was so much right here that whatever new change comes in so how much are you ready to flow with life and how much you pressing against it? And that's the business of letting go, of controls, of who you think you are, keeping travel and they keep turning me off the living truth And the beauty of having these books. What happens is Sun or sun set. Sun is a Sanskrit This is who realize that there is an awakening and you finally sort of with those beings. But maybe your job doesn't and maybe your family doesn't And it's nice to have like get into a little ritual or regimen you get up so it gets so locked in, you start with some quieting down. You start with some meditation, just one little reading and try. I just have a usually approaches space, some holy pictures. I have a non to my mind and just a few old buddies, friends and I just have them and I light little incense in the morning and I sit down there and then next to me the Ramayana, and I have Lao this and that, maybe five or six books. And I'll sit quietly for a little while and I'll look at the pictures Just kind of open my heart to that space, And then I might just pick up one of these sit down of think about it for a while, and then maybe meditate And as simple as that. And I'm just ready to face the day and that begins me on the right track. And then during the day, I may use a dozen If I'm driving, I may be singing I may be working with my beads Jerome and JJ or she or Jail. When you sit in the subway junior year Ranji and pretty soon all of the forms you're seeing and all of it And the mantra is becomes the figure and as opposed to the life experience practice is becoming the background, And there is a way of shifting so that you look around is a collection of souls in all these And you can look further than that and see Now, if you have seen that plane The When you come into this plane, you have the traces of that plane and how do you live in this plane with the recognition During the acid days, and they come down and they couldn't The reason they came down this plane was a denial of what they knew They, in effect, And now I'm talking about social action. I'm talking about the places you get to where you start to become able to live your life in a way that is harmonious with what You literally die into service. You die into the plane of reality we you see that a starving person or a hungry person or a frightened person is you. It's not her or him or them. You die in your separateness. The whole trip of what's good for me, What do I need or do I want just becomes less interesting. And the minute that becomes surrender just given up, it falls away. It falls away from this deeper wisdom. And then you really become an instrument You become part of the Dow, and the serving. And that which is served It's all part of at that moment, there's no coming down Just all these. That's That's when you become an instrument Consciousness. You just become the flow. And at that moment, That's where the power is. The changes, the universe. When you can make yourself into zero, then your power is unbelievable. You are an it resist of all force where there is no high and there is no law there's no opinions, there's no good You merely are part of it. And then by the very you are the commandments, you are the precepts, you are the morality, you don't do it You are that You just are. It's no big deal. My question is, and identity without compromising Okay. Which you do you want to preserve? Okay. If you so okay. We play with a little bit. When I look at relationships, my own and others, I see a wide range of reasons for people to be together and ways in which they are together and I see ways in which relationship, which means something that exists or more people, just for the most part reinforces people's separateness as as individual entities. And it doesn't just honor it. It treats it as the of it. When I perform or I used to perform, I don't anymore, I was a married. I had a license for a while. It was revoked by the temple here, his was too. We used to be able to perform weddings and I do a lot under the table. But the image I always have a wedding is the image of a triangle in which there is the the two partners. And then there is this third force, the third being that emerges out of the interaction of these two. And the third one is the one that is the shared awareness that lies behind the two of them, and that the two people in the yoga relationship come together that exists behind them, in order to then dance, as to so that the two ness brings them into one and the Oneness dances as two, and that that's a kind of a vibrating relationship so that people are both separate and yet they are not separate and they are experiencing both their uniqueness as individuals and their unit of consciousness. Now that's extremely delicate because it's so easy I need I want this. You are not fulfilling this for me but the delight Being with somebody of the predicament you are both in and you're sharing Even when you're having an argument that you're both almost delighting I don't know whether any of you had that because I'm around pretty conscious people and we fight, you know, we're hating it and enjoying it that we're playing it all the time and yeah, but we come into relationship often, very much identified with our needs. I need this, I need security, I need this. And all of relationships are symbiotic We come together because we fulfill each The problem is that when you identify you always stay at the level where the other person is her or him. That was satisfying that need. And it really only gets extraordinarily beautiful when it becomes us and then when it goes behind us and so when I ask you which person are you saving or protecting or whose integrity you're protecting, I can, for example, I understand that you enter into the yoga of relationship It's the hardest yoga because your ego is so vulnerable. When you start to open up to another human being, And before that one place gets going the you get frightened And that happens all the time that come together with the greatest And then they get caught in their needs One of the problems a little bit on the back burner in life. We get a relationship and we go out to other things and We'll go do life. And for relationship to be a yoga of relationship is like a full time I mean, for me one of my examples is Stephen and Andre Levine. Stephen and Andre used to be really nice, friendly, sociable people before they met, but was to take to Apple and then they met. I used to like Stephen and then and then they met and they really started to be together and the amount of energy that had to go into staying clear with each other because what happens is so much goes down It's really hard to process So you keep getting this kind of residual of old stuff that separate from to stop and kind of work it through, So what they did was they moved onto land with no telephone and put up a big sign, and they just started to work And after some years during which you really felt like you were cut off as a friend. And it was hard for me Stephen a lot for sharing consciousness. And then after a while I began to be and allow me in. And then I began I began to see what happens when people together, keep emptying, keep clearing, And if you watch them when they're on the platform they've done some extraordinary work I mean, not cooked by any means, but they have done some really good stuff together And it's rare. It's rare. I, on the other hand, that I can't hear my own truth in the relationship, because I didn't wasn't the life games that I was in for that relationship. It just wasn't worth the effort. I treasured what I was doing in my life too much to invest in that relationship So I've heard it both ways to hear that the answer is it's not fair to say that any relationship a relationship is not useful is. A lot of people come together just really comfortable And there's a wonderful and it's fun to cook with each other And it's fun, too, without to get too deep And many of those people They go off and meditate and one else something else. And that seems fine to me. I don't think you should make believe unless you're willing to really And if you are, it really fills and am I hearing the issue clearly somebody want to say something? The when I'm in a relationship with somebody else and what they do upsets me because I understand that my life experiences in order to bring me to God, that if somebody upsets me, that's my problem. This is a hard one because we don't But I see other people is as I see them as like trees in the forest. You go into the woods and you see gnarled trees and live oaks and pines and hemlocks and elms and things like that. And you're not inclined to say, I don't like you You appreciate trees the way they are, but the minute you get near humans, you notice how quick it changes. There's a way in which you don't allow You take it personally. You keep taking other people personally. All they are are mechanical runoffs of old karma. Really is what they are, and they think they're real, but really So they say or so. And you karmically go it and then one And the other says, Yes, we must. It's all mechanical, it's I mean, I'm really being the last one so that if somebody I mean, somebody comes along and to me, they get me angry or uptight a my delighted they got me. And that's my work on myself. If I'm angry with you doesn't That's my problem for having models. No expectations, no upset. If you're a liar and a cheat, that's your karma. If I'm cheated, that's my work on myself, my attempting to change you, What I'm saying is I will only be happy You're asking for it. Really asking for it. Think of how many relationships you say If they would only be this if I can only So that weird. Why can't I be happy with them You're a liar, a cheat and a scoundrel. And I love you. I won't play games, you, but I love you. It's interesting to move to the level where you can appreciate love and allow in the same way you would in the woods instead of constantly which is really rooted Judging comes out of your own fear. Now I fall trap to it all the time, but every time I do, I catch myself. Okay, that's a beginning. Let's go. You are bored yet? Are you still here? Yes. No, that's okay. You don't give me feedback. I'm going home now with you. Okay, Let's go. Improvise. Basically, Everything is exactly like that. If you marry that personal side of the judgments as well. And that's a problem. Which leads to my question. All of my clients I have some relationships are my nature and you marry your wife and I'm searching for something special, something I've been told is common. So me Do you believe in such a relationship and what would that mean? How do you not know that I got it? Oh, keep looking. I mean, first of all, and then we'll come back in the farthest out answer. We have all been around so many times has been everything with everybody else. So when I look at you, so many relationships together, Do you know how many times Remember that story? Voodoo says long, six miles wide, six miles high. That's the distance and a bird flies over the mountain once It's big in the length of time it takes Right. That's how long you've been doing this. I just think over a scarf and a mountain goes on and on and on and on. I mean, in India thousands of years of and then they just And we've been through all of them again behind all of it is the one. And that's all there is. This is all all of us And so we are all soul mate. There's only one of it. It's not, mate, because it's not even two. It's just one. There's only one of us. So what you're really doing at the deepest level of God, marrying God. Right now you come down into song and each soul has a unique karmic predicament. You can call it a psychic DNA code that in a way guides which way its life will go. And it is entirely possible that souls, when they take birth in parents into parents that are part of their karma will, at some point meet a being to come down And that's What you have found from your past marriages. Is that what you are attracted to isn't what you ultimately live with that what the after the they say the honeymoon is over and it's after the desire systems that have the attraction that it has then you're left with the work to do. And it's the same work you still have the same work when the pizzazz is over And you can't you can't milk too long as you become more conscious. It's more interesting than that. It really is. And people keep wanting a romantic size Culture is part of the culture, to show you the emptiness of that form You start to go to meet another human And truth is scary. Truth has bad breath at times, is boring. Truth, you know, burns Truth has anger, truth has all of it. And you stay in it and keep opening to it And every time you trade in a partner, you realize that's it's not there's the time, good or bad about this, how you keep coming to the same place And then you can't stop because it gets too heavy, because your your identity gets threatened for the relationship to move an opening and a vulnerability And so you entrench, retrench, and then you start to judge and push away, and then you have And then the same starts to happen. And so you keep saying, where am I going And it'll only happen when you start to take and get quiet enough inside yourself as it's happening and start to work to living truth in yourself Even though it's scary and hard. You hear what I'm talking about. So the other person has to work with you. Well, that's interesting. The ideal, of course, is But in like in where many marriages are arranged and you don't even see your wife I mean, they wear masks at wedding I don't know what they do in North Krishna and Radha, and then they take off the mask. And there they are for life I mean, If if, if the husband dies, And so this is it. This is it for life. It's got its benefits. But what's interesting about that is that when they understand dharma of relationship, there is a way in which it's like what the Marines say, that if you can change it, If you can't painted and when you can't change a marriage, I thought it was the standstill pain. It was the same. You can't move it. Yeah the the in like I couldn't trade my father in That's the given. I can go away from him, And what I found was because who called me random and who, And he was very sweet and well-meaning and And but it was weird because he didn't And he attended a gathering in New York on the Central Park West, They have Christ washing the feet of the He was back there and I was up there and a he whispered stories which for a Jew is pretty good. But she was. So it's okay. We forget that that. But that was interesting work for me because he was a given And the last year and I began to see that to not judge him, He was what he was He was absolutely perfect who he was. It was only when I had a model of how my father to be that there was trouble. I wanted him not to suffer when that. So I wanted to understand And he didn't want to understand. And I was frustrated because I met well, I knew if he understood it, The worst problem was trying to take That's the stinker. You keep wanting to take away their son and you don't even know why it's there It's so interesting Finally, I think in relationships you create an environment to another human being to use to grow Parents Lovers are an environment Children are an environment And you keep working. You become the soil so the person can grow Because how do you know how they should People have two children. One of them is a very old incarnation to bless everybody, and the other one you know, and they're their siblings and they are two entirely different, So you've just got to listen to hear who they need to be in a lifetime. So when you work with a situation where you don't change it, The idea of manipulating the universe is just one model. The other model is manipulate your own which is probably the only way to do it. Finally, that's the only way to do it. Because if you keep manipulating But she never noticed that thing. I mean, I've got to I'll go to Kauai, rent a house, get a car, But do you notice the weather is a little clammy today? Dammit, The jeep they gave us, it's That damn restaurant was closed tonight. I mean, I can watch how you can create That was to be heaven in paradise. And then you just laugh at yourself. And then finally, the image I have, of being in Bali when I realized the train was going to be two days late and the station was full of people who were living there and these were families with kids and goats and chickens and vendors I mean, it's life. It's real life in the Bali railway station And I had I was barefoot And the latrine I had dysentery. And so the train hadn't it had stopped up maybe or a few weeks before. And so the fecal matter was sort of everywhere. And there were flies, And I had to go about every 15 minutes. Now, my mother raised me. She she had And she taught me she taught me what hell was her mind was the Bali railway station, That would be she would realize she right. And there I was. It was interesting knowing I had to go to the bathroom, I had to go in there and then coming back It's got toilet paper. But does it go to see Claire has a roll of toilet paper? And there was a moment when I realized in the midst of all that that I was happy and I thought, This is impossible. Everything my training prepared me for At this moment, I and I am happy. And it was interesting. I was happy because there was there were people, It was alive. And also And this was just the stuff to deal with. And in a way, that experience shifted my consciousness about manipulating I'll still make it But then where it isn't, I don't sit around being preoccupied flowing. It's just open to it also. And here we go. Here we go. Because the amount of time because of your attachments that are different from the way it is. You can see it in this culture You see the model and then as their body changes, how it this confirms their model Because I used to do 100 push ups And there's a deep depression. And interesting, I can't do one and I'm not depressed. You should be the next question. And I find that when I'm dealing with pain or especially I do a manipulation thing where I think I'm facing, I'm facing it, So and I so my question, I guess, is how to really keep open to those things and and explain that to you tell talking about manipulating them yourself, how do you feel or do you feel you're So what are you telling me? It's no, it's not a real conscious thing. And at its it's an ego. Well, most It's hard not to be. I mean, the spirit is mediated It's just the question of how identified To tell me these things in yourself is acknowledging And when you're with another partner with by acknowledging it doesn't mean that you have to extract something from them. It's just that the relationships are where the contract is to share truth. Many don't have that kind of a contract. They have a contract of You will threaten We'll both feel comfortable. But if the relationship is designed where you agree and agree, will you help me awaken by sharing your truth with me? It may be difficult for me to hear it well, but that's the work And then you say to me, Would you help me awaken through sharing your truth with me? Sometimes it'll be hard for me, That relationship gets very exciting. That gets loaded. That's that's juicy. I mean, Giant. I have been friends for many years and sometimes it's been hard. There have been moments for me to work with as mine But we trust each other because we love Maharaj and we keep working it Or that's the same in my relation who I've been with for many years, now. Those kinds of truth They're very delicate. But you anything less than the truth. So what you do you can say to the other person, And you keep bringing it out and the two of you with good faith. You keep doing that. You keep working and get as close and a progression ship doesn't allow that. Then the work has got to be in yourself of bringing it up I mean, that I have had to work to the point when I see myself, it either or I begin to see myself doing it. And then the interesting question is Do you get into, oh, you're a no good bum or you just kind of So there I am again, Manildra, who was one once I came and he says, Ram Dass, don't And I really heard running off and bring it up. Look it and let it go. Hey, Yes. My question how how is unheard of a word I with the relationship and it has to do with one view is the student should never accept blindly puts on them or tells that one teacher that almost sounds one of both, but no one should totally surrender. It is being a teacher now. If you are a student which way you go, I want to. I think you surrender only to truth and your intuitive heart has to be the final arbiter The final judgment, where the truth lies, and you're surrendering Is God in the form of the other person. And there are often times where because most of the beings that we call are really teachers, the likelihood of finding somebody that's a cooked goose is reasonably slim. Since they're not cook geese, they have their own stuff, and so they become somebody through whom a teaching comes. But they themselves, not truth. They are merely a vehicle through which there is a purity in your heart You will take as the as the swan is able to separate you separate the purity of their message and you So my like some teachers will say, you know, you've got to do this for me. I would say is for you to get enlightened or free. And so you owe them out of the grace and good fortune And that should be enough for them. You don't owe them to take care of them. You may want to out of your love for them, but there's not an obligation My sense is that that and then end up feeling burned there was a conspiracy between teacher to do themselves in through each other and everybody's getting their tar muffins. I have watched this again and again because there a whole panoply of impurity What if you don't do that now? What if you feel that no matter what What if you don't feel that the teacher themselves is very far from your lack of knowledge If you intuitively feel that, You go as close to surrender But you've got to hear that the the final spiritual surrender It's a surrender where there's nothing to surrender because the highest thing is the same as the highest thing in you. But I don't know that you know, into the highest part of your truth. And intuitively, even though you don't know, you know it so that you're making approximations Well, And the fact is because that's just another trip of power. I'm surrendering to you, It doesn't work that way. It doesn't work that way. The relationship between a pure master and a charmer is a matter that has nothing to do There's no choice involved at all that is such deep karmic unfolding that you are drawn to the master and the unfolding happens totally You just are and all the should I shouldn't be. You know, I recall I was traveling with a swami who was a very beautiful man, and we traveled around the world together. And then I came to his ashram And he, he, he he sat on a throne and he had many wealthy devotees And he created a little throne for me And thousands people came to see him. And he made all of these people wealthy people, and they gave me coconuts and and he had me have attendants And it was really lovely. People came up to me and they said, he's never treated anybody like this You had the guru up in the mountains and him. But, you know, he was nice to start you going, but this is clearly your master. And I thought about my grew up in the mountains run deeper into that relationship until you experienced and that is the the yoga or union meaning union of relationship. So that, for example, when I start out and he loves me and my heart opens. And when my heart opens, I feel very safe. And I, I experienced love towards him. And then he's in my mind and we, I start to keep him And at first he's a separate entity. And then I begin to experience him And then I start to experience And that's a yoga or coming into union with another being. Now, in most relationships, are based on a conspiracy It's based on the idea and we will interact, So the merging is a whole other game that is not part And when you come together in a marriage with a partner, Usually it's of I won't threaten your ego and we'll do very well together. Thank you. To do it as a as a technique for merging is very difficult that has and a relationship that is a yoga form often walks because it's very scary since it doesn't have to keep separate, it starts to get dealing And very often, if you start to choose a yoga that becomes your primary yoga, It's just it becomes your main method because it takes most of your time put it in the back burner and then go do other things and call it Most people have relationship tips as they can make, and then go So the dance, as I said earlier today, the two that come together and then the one dances is two. So it's it's a very vibrating thing. It's the two energies bringing them into And it goes like this all the time. So when you make a marriage to bring you to, you are using the other person to see through the veil of separateness. So then what do you look at? Because you come together by body or attracted by comfort and then through meditation, technique veil to see beyond And you practice That's the yoga of relationship wrestling. And so the art is to extricate yourself with your somebody ness and extricate you are seeing from their identification So it is really nobody meeting, nobody. And then when nobody meets nobody, there is a merging. And the minute there's any somebody ness The minute the awareness is identified And you can feel after a while when you meet a liquid consciousness, And after a while you walk in and you can feel the liquidity, is just keep emerging all the time. And yet there are forms, Nobody's playing them. Nobody's seriously involved in form. And that becomes So your job is to keep working from your somebody ness. And at the same moment, seeing through to the one that lies behind the many. And you can practice levels of this. For example, you can look at me now and you can see my body. You can see me as a 58 year old attractive, balding gentleman. Then you can shift your gaze and see my personality, a teacher, Whatever you know is slightly neurotic, Then you can shift your gaze once more. You can see that I'm an Aries, you can see my astral mythic identity. Then you can shift once more and you can look You there, I'm here. What are you doing in that one? And when you see me as a fellow soul, in this astral personality body matrix, just the soul that came into this. And we just all of us are just souls And each package And then if you flip it once more, Looking at yourself, This is the yoga relationship. Yes. And how does it compare to a monastic or a single life? I think that you've got to really get over the cultural models, Everybody has to be alone to get to God. I think relationship is a very hard yoga. I think it's a hard yoga get caught because it gets so frightening to the to the void because you feel so vulnerable And so that most yoga, most relationships end up agreeing They run out of will And they can they can settle but it's a really hard And so marriage and family, I think are certainly routes to God, Routes are difficulties. But a single see, what you've got to do is incarnations function, role and function what your soul needs from a birth. If your if you are to marry and you resist it, Things. If you marry and have children a single yogi, And you've just got to listen because there's just no rules Each person has their own unique Dharma question and same energy and my question is, do we have such a thing? Do I have such a thing as a soulmate? And I was just wondering if perhaps you could if there'll be a sign up list for this gentleman outside? First of all, when you say wasted, After a while, you begin to see that your journey, spiritual journey. As you awaken more and more, what was going on in all the stuff Like I had periods in my adolescence I mean that I was extremely unhappy And now in perspective, I see the way those things drove me inside and they deepened my compassion, They did a lot of things for me. I wouldn't lay them on anybody But I now see that it was a process and in a way, Don't look at things as wasted Just say maybe I don't understand yet but understand it's all process. People don't fall off the path It's a continuous process, right? The only way you would know a soulmate if you met one was As long as you're in your personality The whole idea of soul mates, which is used a lot in this culture, That's a personality speaking and it takes one to know one, if you will. Right? And what you will feel at times is you'll feel an incredible familiarity and you will feel that even though we have known each other But that's probably true. There's probably and we just keep going around again many times in many ways. I mean, I have a feeling with that it said that everybody was and child and murderer and murderer So you get so that you're a surprise when you feel these complex emotions I'm not sure I understand other than people have work and then they may come together You may come together with a brother or a mother or a cousin that have incredible work together. I mean, Judas They could have been soul mates Know, and I don't have any phone numbers It's a big group, Okay, Go ahead. Except for the group until we get them. Who's next? Is there a difference between marriage and just living together? Is there a difference between marriage And we'll forget the word Just and living together? Okay, Well, it really depends on which culture you're living in. For example, in the villages in India, when you get married, it is till death. And if one person dies, for the rest of their life and doesn't remarry, Well, That's true for the women, Of course, fact, in some cultures when the man dies, But that's because the culture is focused In California, where I live, it is serial monogamy that is, you only are married but you can be married serially and See, the difference your parents are your given karma. You can't trade them in. You can't turn in your father And then you have friends Karma. Okay? Those are those are people you take on And then if it doesn't work, Now where does a marriage fit in between given karma and acquired karma? In some cultures it's given karma. The minute you make the contract, When you say till do us part, it given karma It's nothing you can turn in. Now. What marriage has come to be in is much more like a special friendship And then if you both find you're From a spiritual point of view, ideally you would find a partner who wished to awaken The two of you would use the relationship and you would use your raising children and you're working with your money and all of it as a way of awakening And if you end up in a marriage before you started to awaken or you got married, and then you find and then another does, doesn't then the person that wants you can see that relationship as given karma Or you can say, I really want my marriage to be satsang or sangha, so I will give this one up I'll find somebody Right? It actually a spiritual point of view. You're going to grow both ways. From a psychological point of view, to somebody that's not the least bit You go to retreats all by yourself and they don't care and they want to look at the ball game. And but from in terms of your work that will get you there just as fast as as and what you usually find the next part that you get over into what you had last time anyway. I mean, because these are happening I mean, if neurotic in in London, You know, it's not like suddenly It's all going to be roses. It'll still still have to deal with So after a while, you don't really care You just keep doing it. You could say that the commitment The problem is, My sense is that love and that people should stay together so and that to be together with somebody at one time does not seem to me I don't hear that. If now and all of the vacillation when you're Shouldn't we marry? That's just grist About what the issues of commit. Because what is commitment mean? Commitment for us to be working on ourselves That's what it's saying. And that doesn't have to be a contract That is something each person So I know some of you are upset Question How strong is what you just said? Can you make a distinction? I know some Tibetan masters who have wives, and it would seem as if their relationship with their wife No, She stays in the kitchen. And, you know, it's in a pretty and they don't talk. The this master is very busy and we travel all over the world. She's probably the Buddha. She's. Yeah, I, I, he's just the front man. Well, exactly. I mean, I think what I'm saying a sacraments is the chicken soup. Yeah. Excuse me. Go ahead. I, I mean, is there a distinction between a path that is yoga a relationship as a way to God and being a spiritual warrior and as part of that, having a conscious, But that is not the primary focus. Yeah, I think that most people work gets to call the marriage Yoga is such a stinker, you know that that gives you support and gives you And it's it's comfortable And then you do your practices you get clearer and closer together. But the yoga of relationship I think you're absolutely right. And I think that's I think that's a more intelligent strategy the yoga, telling the truth. Because this is the question I have discussed with I was recently getting married and I ended it because I was saying, I really want to go to God And my partner just wanted another gin it was quite impulsive to do the work. And yet I see that I had probably intended to go much too high, that was even higher And so somehow I sacrificed myself, you know, I just could have chosen with a little bit of personality comforts and coming to retreats as well. I mean, like, I mean, you know, Yes, sir. I was I mean, but for many years I have really tried to live a very rigorous spiritual relationship. And there was always the pain because I would deny myself not, as it were, evolved enough to not me. And I think it also begs the question that if one is on the spiritual path, is one necessarily of a different vibrational rate Or is that yet another glamor? I mean, because, quote, I can't be with so-and-so I think that I hear your point. And I think most of the time as a way of giving ourselves And it's a little fraudulent, And I think that somebody in the deepest sense they'll use the gin and tonic, they'll use the not marrying and using everything they can use as a process They do it in a way. They do this spiritual practices And they just seem like regular people They the whole showbiz And finally You know, I agree totally. You know, but also, Ram Dass isn't the, you know, someone who does work If get together. That is a kind of difference, you know, But for the person who is working on themself, That's very good stuff to work with. I mean, it's just a fire. It's a hotter fire it's a hotter fire. If I want to go to God, on it. So, no, I wouldn't. I I would try to make it easy for yourself I mean, not fall off, but you could, you know, you get into the olives or onions. VIEIRA You know, I think that you what you would do is you would find you look around and you sit, you find who shares your journey But then if you find after you who primarily is on the gin you know, then you work with that. That's what you work with. Well, that's all I'm suggesting, right? Because you were attracted to that person And the problem is you've got to look A lot of people, for example, when in fact really but they don't want to admit it to somebody that wants good sex. And then they put them down in order to not identify So at least be straight with yourself. If that's what you want, It's better be truthful Holy. All right. We have enough trouble with that. And that that'll just blow you away. I mean, it just keeps. Go back to go and start again and start. Okay. Next on the question of more open relationships. I'm not saying We seem to be limited in our ability to express the impulses deep within oneself. Is this an ability or a limitation or is it a human limitation and thereby Wait a minute. This is a very complex one. Say it. Start again. Say, I'm not talking about I'm not talking about marriages relational relationship Okay. Yeah, Yeah. We seem limited in our ability to express the impulses that stem from deep within ourselves. Is this limitation or is it a basic human limitation? And if if it is, must we always be as we were alone with our experience? I think our inability to express our to acknowledge impulse life is primarily a socialization process And I think that it's the way in which we get acculturated It's because it's a society when there's immediate impulse expression It needs a certain amount a certain amount of control, suppression, not necessarily repression, It is certainly possible to work with truth in a relationship to get in expressing what your impulses are Truth is one of the vehicles for deepening awareness And if there is a license for that in any relationship with guru, it is, it is a an absolutely optimum way of coming into a liquid Another person. But it's very, very delicate because people are feel very vulnerable, that are cut off that the idea if I show this part of me, and the ability to risk that. Finally, you learn It doesn't mean you have to force your truth on anybody, that is willing to enter then you can share that Doesn't I can say I have I've had the impulses you cut into pieces if I felt that or I'd like to make love And that might not be socially acceptable or might not fit in But if I feel safe enough, And as you and I share then our entrapment in our minds and we are able to allow the awareness because both looking from the same place the impulse, the repression of impulse is what blocks energy and what keeps other And the idea is to get to the point not with them, And finally, if you're really doing there is only an I in many forms. Do you hear that? So truth is one of the exciting vehicles And what I've learned to make my truth as available And what I find is people say to me, It makes it easier for me to be truthful And I think, well, it's it's a cheap price If it if that just in itself and that dealing with the question. Yeah. I want to go back one second to the issue You can enter into a contract that says we will not have with other people while we are together, and that will allow for a certain kind of safety I think it I can hear that as a very viable thing. You could equally enter which says we'll have an open marriage If you I think the a contract I think that creates an environment It doesn't matter which contract it is, And when you want to renegotiate you don't renegotiate it unilaterally. You don't decide you're not going to fulfill a contract, then go off It to be honorable between people. You know, those create the conditions You can play it. You can go deeper, be safer. More questions from this group. Yeah. Okay. Um, you you mentioned earlier and I wondered similar challenges this time on the planet to, to work and through relationships, or do you think that, that and so I think this is a very interesting time for women because the history of religious traditions has, for the most part, treated In India, for example, the way a relationship is seen is that the woman has two forces One is that she most easily can get into a transcendent state that in her menstrual cycle There are a lot of ways but she also has a very powerful earth pull because of the nesting need so that they see a woman and they experience the man as having much less of an earth but tending to get much more caught and not having the energy to get out. So what they see a marriage is as the wife is the Shakti or energy which gives the relationship Then he isn't pulled back so hard so that they see that as a team venture. He can't get out without her. She can't stay out without him. And that's the way historically And it was in why in in India, most of the stories, revolved around rather than the women, there wasn't anything because they didn't have this dual of taking care of their young. Now, that was an excuse for a culture that really didn't give women for spiritual practices that were that should have been available And what we're finding now taken under my MA or Mirabai or many, many Teresa or people like that there have been many, many women who have certainly come as close And in terms of their spiritual work. So now it seems to me and you're taking cultural traditions a sex difference in a way that gives everybody The predicament is You mustn't let that mask the fact and there are differences and there are differences a being takes an incarnation And it's not lesser. It's just different. These are different functions. So that I think most recently, I can see it in the women's movement started or feminism or whatever that women interpreted equality as being equally in the mind, as men were. And they in many ways that were part of the reason They started to get alienated to have equal opportunity in the business That seemed to me And as time has gone on, it seems to me so that women are beginning to hear that they have a choice they have freedom to choose to honor their uniqueness And so that we can arrive at the way and in fact, men and women have a much deeper of their maleness and femaleness In the United States, a kind of a superficial macho ness in men and a kind of a hysterical femininity that isn't coming from a deep truth Now, in terms of spiritual truth, what you notice it's interesting in the in the gurus that as the gurus get further out, most of the men start to develop breasts. This is interesting. And the there is a quality of androgyny in spiritual identity that is not social. It's at some very deep level and the father, I mean, a nod to my mother and graceful being, was also And you could feel that both And Maharaj v, and also extremely fierce. And I can feel that the qualities and men often start to merge in beings So I think that men have, in the terms they have a more clearly enunciated Women have got to, seems to me, now to be very creative in terms of what is true to take from another tradition and what and it's going to take for the maturity of that process to happen are just reacting against the suppression Am I dealing with your question? Yeah, I do a little more. Oh, I think so. I think that in the traditional sense, in the family, the woman is seen as the core And by her being a conscious, a Dharmic mother and a Dharmic wife she was doing a yoga If the man was being a lousy businessman I mean, it was because people understood Each person played their part as Dharma. We've lost that a little bit But and that's we will understand out of a wrong interpretation of equality. And we will begin to honor human beings needs to to manifest. But I think it's absolutely right that of why women weren't as the spiritual teacher Their role was a support system They became saints. They were saints through their supporting The front work was I mean, you you when I study those cultures and they carried the wheat And the men sat in the And the men were the important people. And the women were treated like, And yet And I could feel in India the center of the whole social structure consciousness, because every home in India and the villages I live in has its own The woman, the pool. Jerome the woman does all the services. The woman is concerned the spiritual connection in the situation. And when you look at most of these gurus ji, most of the people who came to see him The men came and discussed their crops The women came and did Aarti And so I think in the West at this moment to find and what they must demand of the society You know, I'm just taking questions until we get through everybody around us. Yes, yes, you've answered the questions. Thank you for that.