This video is sponsored by Squarespace. When you think of classic video game characters there's one Italian plumber that's likely The Mario franchise contains more than 200 games and has sold over 776 million copies of those games, making it the best-selling video game franchise of all time! Just the thought of covering all that content, not to mention the cartoons, comics, spinoffs, and merchandise, is exhausting! Thankfully, there's a subseries of Mario that's only with sales of over 390 million copies. So... "Mushroom Kingdom, here we come!" This is the evolution of Super Mario! Nintendo's poster boy debuted as the player character He originally went by "Jumpman" or "Mr. Video," and his design was based on the In fact, Mr. Video's creator, Shigeru Miyamoto, intended for Popeye to take the lead role, So, Miyamoto swapped the sailor for a plumber, fully prepared for the backup character to be unpopular How wrong he was! Jumpman started to gain more of a personality when It just so happened that the angry landlord of a Seattle warehouse After he got into an argument with the then-president of Nintendo, Minoru Arakawa, about paying rent, Miyamoto learned of and that it would be suitable for his protagonist. As for Mario's iconic look, Miyamoto explained in "Drawing a face was complicated, so I started with a nose. In order to distinguish the nose, I added a mustache. Drawing hair was also complicated, so I made him wear a cap.&quot; As Mario's design and personality were fleshed out even more, Miyamoto began to conceive of a game In 1983, an arcade game called Mario Bros. was released. It featured the two Italian plumbers exterminating by flipping them upside-down and kicking them away. While not part of the Super Mario series, and included elements such as spinning bonus coins and flipping turtles onto their backs that would be seen in later titles. Fun Fact Miyamoto came up with the name Luigi for the second player He also liked the fact that Luigi happens to mean "similar" It was not until 1985 that Super Mario Bros. hit Set in the Mushroom Kingdom, which has fallen into Mario hears of the plight of the Mushroom People. Their princess, Princess Toadstool, is the only one but she has been kidnapped by the great So, as Mario, you must set out on a quest to free the Princess, Princess Toadstool, by the way, is also Princess Peach. Interestingly, she was always known as Princess Peach in The names were eventually combined so that her but most people refer to her as simply Peach... and quite the peach she is, too, I might add! Mario certainly agrees! "No pressure." Similarly, Bowser was only known as "Koopa" in Japan to begin with but the English name stuck, and the antagonist's In addition to Peach and Bowser, the side-scrolling 2D platform as well as key gameplay elements such as the three power-ups: The Super Mushroom increases Mario's size The Fire Flower allows the player to throw fireballs as weapons. And a Super Star grants Mario temporary invincibility. It's from the Super Mushroom specifically as the development team chose it after The goal of Super Mario Bros. is to reach the end of each level, then take down Bowser's flag that's risen above the castle. There are 8 worlds, each with 4 zones, and in the fourth zone of each world, However, the Bowsers encountered in worlds 1 to 7 are fake, and the real Bowser is only encountered Interestingly, for years, Super Mario Bros. fans debated whether Since the arrival of YouTube, many people have not only on level 3 of World 3 but also Jumping the flagpole causes an endless loop Super Mario Bros. was a huge success for Nintendo, The title was instrumental in boosting sales of the Having been re-released on multiple platforms in the decades with over 58 million copies sold! Super Mario Bros. regularly tops review lists that count Mostly, however, it's recognizable as the game that spawned a franchise that has lasted over 35 years and continues Fun Fact Did you know that Mario was originally going to be a carpenter? However, after a colleague suggested to Miyamoto he changed his profession and developed Mario Bros., featuring Mario in the sewers of New York City. Surprisingly, the first real sequel to Super Mario It was a Japanese exclusive released in 1986 That was until 2007 when it became a downloadable title Nintendo 3DS, and Wii U. The game was considered by Nintendo of America to be too hard Essentially, the story is exactly the same, with However, players can play as Luigi, who, for He can jump slightly higher than Mario but also has worse traction, meaning it can feel like he is often walking on ice! A "Fantasy World" can be unlocked if the game is In this 9th world, the player has only one life, and There are also four secret worlds lettered from World A to World D, which can be accessed by completing Once a player racks up 8 stars on this level, they must The Lost Levels became remembered as among For gamers outside of Japan, Super Mario Bros. 2, a completely It was later released under the title of This follow-up title was greatly different which caused it to come in for criticism by some fans. The game's plot centers around a strange dream which Mario They have been cursed and are under the spell As you can guess, it's up to you to save them! Players can choose from one of 4 playable characters this time around: Mario, Luigi, Toad, or Princess Toadstool, before entering a mysterious door to save the people of Subcon. Each character has different statistics when it comes to making for a different experience depending on who you select. There are 7 worlds with fewer levels, but new The English manual for Super Mario Bros. 2 and would prefer to be called "Birdetta." Some interpret that as Birdo being transgender, which would make Fun Fact Nintendo were in a rush to create a Super Mario Bros. so they took an existing game called 'Yume Kojo: Doki Doki Panic,' and labeled it Super Mario Bros. 2, with a few minor changes! Based on the first and second Super Mario Bros. games, there was also a television series named "The Super Mario The television series, with a total of 52 episodes, The plot revolves around two plumbers from Brooklyn, New York, named Mario and Luigi, who accidentally warp into the The series was created by Andy Heyward, who spent about Eventually, he was given the green light, and The character of Mario was brought to life in the show Meanwhile, the role of Luigi was played Each episode would have a live-action segment followed although strangely, on Fridays, the latter would be Two main theme songs were used during the show's Neither has aged particularly well, although Do the Mario has been somewhat revived in recent The critical response to The Super Mario Bros. Super Show and its interesting short animations. However, many people were put off by the live-action Mike Hughes of USA Today said the show relied In a retrospective review, Mark Bozon of IGN Yikes! Before Super Mario Bros. 3 was released, gameplay This was the first time people could see a preview and the movie was basically one big commercial, but it sure made Nintendo fans excited for the game that Returning to a more familiar setting, the game where Bowser has returned and sent seven of his children, capturing each king's magical wand Princess Toadstool instructs Mario and retrieve the stolen wands, and return each king to normal. But their mission only serves as a distraction for So, after saving the kings, Mario and Luigi must travel to the Dark Land, find Castle Koopa, and rescue the Princess too! The third entry into the series had complex including new moves, new items, Power-ups now included the Super Leaf, the Tanooki Suit, the Magic Wing, the Frog Suit, the Hammer Suit, and the Goomba's Shoe. There were special areas in each world, too, like Toad Houses, where the player can obtain useful items, and Spade Panels, where the player can play a matching There were also secret areas to find, such as the While the previous game may have been rushed, Super Mario Bros. 3 was a passion project that Shigeru Miyamoto served as director and encouraged Super Mario Bros. 3 was a massive hit among fans and critics. It is widely considered to be one of the best with one reviewer referring to it as "the Mona Lisa of gaming." While it didn't sell as many copies as the original title, it has sold over 24.4 million copies to date The game remains among many people's favorites. Tim Boone of 'Computer and Video Games' described it as Fun Fact The Chain Chomp enemy was inspired by in which a dog lunged at him but was Meanwhile, the Koopalings were designed to with Miyamoto basing the characters on seven of his Nintendo of America also named the with examples being "Ludwig von Koopa" and "Lemmy Koopa," referencing Ludwig van Beethoven and On September 8th, 1990, an animated series titled 'The Adventures There were 26 episodes in total, produced by DIC Animation City, with overseas animation completed by South Loosely based on the video game, it featured an almost entirely with only John Stocker and Harvey Atkin returning to Walker Boone became the voice of Mario, while Live-action scenes were dropped from the format, and episodes instead consisted of two Animations began with a title card that featured world-map As for the plot, the opening narration states: Everyone thought King Koopa had left the Mushroom Kingdom. And then... his Doomship attacked! King Koopa was back! With the greatest danger ever known... His Koopa Kids!" Viewers follow the adventures of Mario, Luigi, as they attempt to beat back the evil Enemies and power-ups seen in the video Overall, the series is much more faithful to its source which the Super Show failed to do. Many episodes are set on Earth, or &quot;The Real World,&quot; as it's such as Brooklyn, London, Paris, Venice, and elsewhere. One episode in particular, titled &quot;7 Continents for 7 Koopas,&quot; is about the Koopalings invading each Fittingly, the show itself was aired in many countries around Hungarian, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, It is generally seen as a much better adaptation and probably helped to introduce many children around Creating a professional website doesn't have to be difficult! Squarespace offers powerful blogging tools plus they have amazing extensions that perfect for anyone that's looking to start a successful business online. If you want to create a website, look no further! Go to Squarespace.com for a free trial, and when you're ready to launch, to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain! After a successful trilogy of games on the NES, Super Mario was ready to enter a new Land in 1989 and then a whole new World the year after! Click the video on screen to follow him down that warp hole... and thanks for watching! Subtitles done by Emir Kahvecioglu