WITH THE FINANCIAL SUPPORT OF THE MINISTRY THE RUSSIAN MILITARY HISTORY SOCIETY Bykovo village, Moscow In the evening of the 19th of May from the Bykovo airfield near had passenger seats temporarily with additional fuel tanks. The an incredibly dangerous trip The flight was one of the Even the plane's commander had had headed by People's Commissary for would end up onboard. The route of reaching their In 10 hours' time they landed in Molotov arrived to London for talks Vyacheslav Molotov lived until the Soviet government member. He joined to the communist ideals to his working in the Party and had to He led the Soviet government and but he said he was "not a real &quot;upon his death, the envelope 500 rubles for his funeral was LAND OF THE SOVIETS. FORGOTTEN LEADERS. VYACHESLAV MOLOTOV. Vyacheslav Molotov's real last say about himself: "Us Vyatka He was born on March 9, 1890 in His mother Anna Nebogatikova was and his father Mikhail Skryabin Vyacheslav was the sixth He grew up mischievous and cocky. Vyacheslav was expelled from school After the family moved to Nolinsk, he had four years of a Then he was admitted into a Young Vyacheslav's achievements brought his parents joy, and they had already started his The provincial Nolinsk was full Vyacheslav would come here during It was here that he met his Kazan Bolshevik Andrei Kulesh. social democrats, and from only one thing: the Party. After returning to Kazan to Secondary School Students' A committee was elected, and became its chairman. The organization Socialist Revolutionaries, anarchists of overthrowing the monarchy. In Kazan, Skryabin shared He was unpretentious in daily life, Besides studying at the the secret society, he played free musical school of a He was supposed to graduate summa the final exams, Vyacheslav's parents from the secondary school for From Molotov's memoirs: "When I was little, father "He would lock me up in the "all the good stuff. When I "he came with a visitation." Vyacheslav and his associates Vologda Governorate. Along with Aleksandr Arosev is sent there. was barely different from normal 8 rubles, and those with a secondary which is roughly $170 when It was permitted to pass exams in a person wanted education, it not of revolution. From Molotov's memoirs: "It was easy to escape from exile. "you to appear, sometimes "I decided to do all of my "because I wanted to graduate Despite his history of exile, Shipbuilding Department of the which was one of its most he transferred to Economics soon after. Statistics and Economical really interested the young Marxist. St Petersburg, Russian Empire, 1912 He would only pass the exams Department to another, and put much Colossal perseverance, patience and qualities for his entire life. by his friends and his enemies, In 1912 Bolsheviks begin printing Molotov assigned the post of He also met Iosif Djugashvili there was in passing, they would only From Molotov's memoirs: "I left and Stalin arrived "we missed each other. But "And when we met each other, "Then he stole my girlfriend. Throughout the next few years and a propagandist. In those chief editor for arrests. The call for revolution would cost the or three months of prison There was simply no money simple workers would agree in advance Pravda would go through editors in charge of the staff was were published under the pen As WWI raged, he moved to finally stuck for good. Molotov, sounded proletarian and industrial. for changing his last name. From Molotov's memoirs: "My last name Skryabin is "when I get nervous. So I picked "pronounce. I was torn between In 1915, 18 months before final Vyacheslav Molotov was arrested and returned to St Petersburg. To Molotov used other people's passports. There were no pictures in the he went through six last names. Aleksandr Arosyev came to his aid It was he who gave his passport get a job with the Modern February of 1917 neared... By the start of the February one of the leaders of Together with Stalin he became one in preparing the Bolshevist coup. And after the October revolt, Military Revolutionary Committee. Molotov's views, way of same as the fate of every was forever defined by the that fell upon the former empire Those who did not escape the The war spared no one. Molotov had held the highest offices and the Volga area, handled the served in special forces having In March of 1921 the 10th declared the Civil War over. of the Central Committee of the this position, whose name was went to Joseph Stalin 1921 was important for At the 2nd Women's Communist he met Polina Zhemchuzhina... From Molotov's memoirs: "Polina did underground work in "In the summer of 1921, I "I had no time for that "My suitcase traveled along with me." Polina was the daughter her real name was Perl emigrated to the USA where he became a In 1930s, he would Soviet-American trade at the apartment of his At first the Molotovs shared Stalin and his wife Nadezhda daughter was born, he named had named his own daughter in The wives of the leaders of It was Polina who was the last before her suicide. Nadezhda Alliluyeva shot That suicide gave birth to many the reason was a severe illness After Lenin's death, Molotov in his struggle against Trotsky. in political negotiations and had already earned him Later the same qualities brought of enemies in the international Having become Minister of Foreign insane with endless rewrites the The habit to never betray his always remained the most He was sure of doing the right Vyacheslav Molotov found himself of modernizing the state and Industrialization turned the industrial country in the in the quality of life, discontent The situation in the country of a period of serious terror. Aleksandr Arosyev, revolutionary, Vyacheslav Molotov's closest arrests and exile together. From the memoirs of "On Sundays, Vyacheslav Molotov "his big government-issue car, and But Party decisions still took When Arosyev realized he could be friend several times to From Olga Arosyeva's memoirs: "Father called Molotov, 'Vecha, I'm "Molotov hanged up. After many more "He only said one sentence: "Father walked away from the "He decided against "He put his secretary in the car, "Dad never came back from "from Civil War days." On February 10, 1938, Aleksandr Like other Politburo members, execution lists and orders for passers-by, who would often things with words like "butcher" Molotov's reaction to that was admitted that there were "It was either us or them." From Molotov's memoirs: "Of course, we made a real mess "didn't know anything about it "was the only responsible would "played its part, everyone was "I've always considered Stalin "those who approved, who were "I would always advocate taking "my harsh actions and I never will." Molotov headed the Government was having a major economical in the 30s, industrial output grew in official reports were the facts spoke for themselves. were built, a plethora of dams, The urban population grew by 30 was taking off in the agricultural of kolkhozes and taking foodstuffs several areas of the Soviet The Soviet leadership was only for governing the country Neighboring states were clearly That was why agent networks of were active all over the country. was coming, but neither the economy were ready for it. Molotov, realized that modernization of of the defense forces By 1938, Soviet military However, even that was Documents show that on the brink assessing the strength of the Red whether it was capable of USSR was still unprepared to repel Only one thing left capable or at least delaying it: diplomacy. The Commisariat for Foreign capable of achieving that task. By that time, the situation After Hitler's rise to power, In March of 1938, Austria was from France and Great Britain. Hitler to Czechoslovakia, demanding The Soviet Union issued a to Czechoslovakia for its defense. But those forces would have to which Poland adamantly Polish ambassador in Paris that Poland would declare war were to move through Polish September 27, 1938: Hitler informed that the German "operation" against the next day. British Prime that he could get it Molotov and Stalin get news from Munich. On September 30, Chamberlain and sign a treaty with Hitler and to Germany. Only after that were let into the chamber where Czechoslovak delegates' they were simply handed the Soviet representatives weren't that he would sooner resign than He preferred an alliance with Hitler. Future Prime Minister of Great upon finding out about the "England was given a choice "It chose dishonor, France and England provide supposed to aim at the Soviet Union. In 1938 Czechoslovak industry was From the start of the German its factories produced almost the entire industry of Great the German army commanded a Soviet leadership had no choice 11 months left until May 3 1939, Molotov is appointed His predecessor Maksim Litvinov he was a known fighter for peace, Nazi aggression. But the situation Not only did not Molotov end the he continued them with more school of diplomacy. During that that earned him his fame high attention to detail, and perseverance in Molotov would say he was "not a created one of the best He seriously changed to the staff Having extremely high standards for for his employees. People devoted to their trade The workers never saw scheduled in the general understanding of always be working. Day and night. Their wages were no higher However, they were required competent, responsible in resolving Many people couldn't Only the best and the As the workers of the institution managed to create a sort of The awareness of belonging to diplomacy for a long time. Out of many later became famous Minister of Foreign Affairs In 1938, the Soviet ensuring the country's safety: either countries or signing a treaty with No one thought German but a treaty could delay the extremely important for the USSR. Molotov understood Germany would certainly attack Poland. In 1939 Poland owned sizable where 6 million of ethnic If German forces were to occupy between them and the capital no more than 50 from Minsk, the Another danger came from the separated German ally A major industrial and strategic of capture at the very The first meeting between took place on May 8, 1939. Less than 4 months remained The British demanded an official Britain and France in case of a Molotov was willing, but he from England in case the Baltic Neither the British nor the French A telegram from Molotov to Soviet "As you can see, the English "and free help from us without Just as fruitless were the the USSR, France and Britain in Moscow. Two months remained before June of 1939 was beginning. Molotov they begin discussing military only left for Moscow Incredibly, they picked the longest and by train from there. They only Twenty days remained until Kliment Voroshilov represented It turned out that Admiral Drax didn't actually have any The English Prime Minister the talks as a way to pressure as he could. It was obvious with the British. Right during the talks Voroshilov secretary: "Klim, Koba said The Soviet Union had to whether it wanted to or German Minister of Foreign arrived to Moscow. Seven days remained until the war. Ribbentrop's meeting with Stalin Around 2AM both Foreign signed the documents with Signatories pledged to abstain should one of the sides become taken out by a third party. They directed against the other classified protocol demarking in case of "territorial or The protocol would see the inclusion Bessarabia and East Poland into Lithuania and Poland were part of The document later dubbed was the cause of many heated Was signing it a Sovie was it in cahoots with fascists? "The desire to stave off the war "Naturally, every person who kept "had that desire. No one who "had the right to make a mistake. "an excuse to start the war." On August 31, 1939, at a special the treaty was ratified. Several hours remained until the war. The next day, Germany started One day later, Britain and On September 17, a speech by on the radio informed the had entered Western Along the new border of the were being built which Western Thanks to the Soviet-German hundreds of kilometers to the a decisive role in defending the German plan of surrounding No one had any doubt that a war The leader were doing whatever it Moscow was trying to convince On the 9th of September Molotov with having his forces enter his understanding and wished invaded Norway and Denmark. The when Belgium, Netherlands The USSR took action to remove for future aggression coming from Treaties were signed with the and Lithuania, according to established on their territories. In Finland, which was unwilling military action started, and by the USSR managed to move the border However, German forces soon When German armies came Stalin sent Molotov to Berlin for all Soviet leaders who From Molotov's memoirs: "Hitler... There was nothing in his "But a very self-satisfied, you "In the films they focus on his "a lunatic, and that isn't true. "small-minded and dumb due to his "his basic idea." The Fuhrer refused to discuss The country had to prepare for war. On June 22 of 1945, at 12 PM, every People's Comissary Vyacheslav It was he who announced the He said the words that came to "Our cause is just. The enemy will On May 6 of 1941, Stalin himself Molotov became his assistant. became one of the original members Molotov was put in charge of negotiating with leaders of Great In May of 1942, Molotov flew an Anglo-Soviet military alliance. over enemy territory without had to happen due to extraordinary the British Prime Minister Churchill in the mail lead to nothing. A personal meeting had to happen. There was little hope that But there was no other option. The flight to Great Britain on pilot Endel Pusep crossed under German military occupation. To stay unnoticed in the sky, at record height at the time, After a 10 hour flight the crew and Molotov's visit to England became abroad by a member of the a treaty about military alliance became one of the most important After that, Molotov had to talks at the White House. On to Great Britain for anouther the weather suddenly worsened and Congelation began. The bomber was being shaked so hard From Winston Churchill's memoirs: "It was the spring of 1942, "on the way back from the "flight back home in front of him. "which we used in order "I squeezed his hand with force "Suddenly, he seemed very "living or dying together." On the 12 of June of 1942, having completed the dangerous His work wasn't restricted to government, Molotov was personally The USSR had lost several of the in Kharkov, Stalingrad and other constructed in the Urals and in Siberia. Despite this, tank industry led tanks and self-propelled artillery only produced 53800. When the decision to create an Vyacheslav Molotov was put Due to efforts by Vyacheslav the anti-Hitler coalition with Great He initiated contact with the led by General de Gaulle. Molotov was one of the people who and hosting Allied forums: Foreign Ministers in 1943, Tehran Vyacheslav Molotov always considered than a diplomat. Among other foreign languages properly were handled through an interpreter. Many photographs show him with a serious smoker: it was while he was being translated. At official meetings, he would a businesslike state of mind Winston Churchill called him "a "the modern conception of a robot." Molotov was still true to himself the task at hand at any cost. turn out to be the most The crisis point Molotov's life and Polina Zhemchuzhina. There are imprisoned the wife She was accused of connections and Prime Minister of Israel Golda Stalin personally brought up her At first Molotov abstained from opinion of the majority, admitting "Zhemchuzhina, who is Polina Zhemchuzhina was She was arrested in January of accusation of state treason as it went, when she was Head of consumer industry, she was she was exiled to Kostanay, Forever a loyal Stalinist, "If the Party thinks that we should "for us and for the Party." Molotov had practically what happened to her afterward. whisper "Polina is alive!" From Molotov's memoirs: "It was great luck to have her as "but most importantly, a true "Her life went bad for her "She was a casualty of difficult "and not only did she not criticize "when others did."| Right after the end of the war, the work of his closest comrade: under the pressure of Western during the war to Despite all that, Vyacheslav foreign policy, solving complex the determination characteristic new possibilities of a peace unification of both states, a general election. But Stalin towards their former allies. sabotaging the country's with the international circles. the treasures of the Dresden Gallery, bombing and partially restore the collection was returned to Vyacheslav Molotov put a lot of of the USSR in the eyes of the to take part in UN work. The in which the USSR had But with time, Stalin stopped to his dacha where the most On March 4 of 1949, Molotov of Minister of Foreign Affairs. The day of Stalin's burial, 9th of After the mourning rally, and asked what wanted "Give me Polina back." In March of 1953 Polina and returned to her husband. They spent another 17 years together. "So that the entire Party, the "under Lenin's flag, progresses In June 1953, Molotov was appointed After Stalin's death, he supported to arrest Lavrentiy Beria and fire Deputy Premier of the Soviet Union. the East and the West had grown. There were constant ...a nuclear one. For one, American Army General nuclear bombing of China as early In the times of Khrushchev's helped organize several meetings international tensions. It was Geneva Conference of 1954 waged by France supported by in 1955, again in Geneva, there was four countries on ensuring Even though the summit yielded no major initiative in establishing following the end of WWII. Soon, Molotov and Khrushchev Among other things, they viability of the Virgin Lands Campaign. Molotov was against the Party and against including Crimea It culminated with Molotov heading in 1957 against Khrushchev. After and Malenkov, he attempted But Khrushchev's cohorts They called a Central Committee plenum Molotov was fired from all posts The three cities named after Soon Molotov was even Polina Zhemchuzhina admitted once: "I'm a Party member, old Communist, "But Vecha got expelled from the She died in 1970. All Vyacheslav Molotov has and his little grandson Slava. In the times of the received Party Membership card #5. And now, the oldest of all being restored to its ranks. The new Party Membership by General Secretary of the Central From Olga Arosyeva's memoirs: &quot;When Molotov turned 85, I called 'What's so happy 'What do you mean? You're 'What's there to celebrate? When 'and you don't enjoy it at all.&quot; To a workaholic, someone used to from an early age, being let go When he was already a widower, &quot;the same three things: &quot;To Comrade He lived to the age of 96, suffering On the 8th of November, 1986, exactly 69 years after standing next the Republic of the Soviets. By then, Mikhail Gorbachev He was buried next to his wife's After his death, his apartment took all of the papers out of there. His descendants only noted down by the political Molotov would sometimes share at his dacha in Zhukovka, tapping the ground The walking stick British gifted the head of Soviet