Narrator: Communities around some of the rarest known But for most, it's not an easy task. Fragile fibers like lotus are so rare that they From herding communities to lace experts in northern France, here's how some of the world's most expensive fabrics are made. Here in northern Bolivia, a kilogram of this vicuna Vicuna wool is ultrafine which explains why it's the most expensive textile in the world. Because of conservation efforts, vicunas cannot be domesticated, and herding communities in can only shear them once every two years. An entire community begins preparing to capture the herd a month in advance. In addition to monitoring the herd and tracking its movement, they must build a herding device so that a fleet of motorcyclists can move the vicuna into an enclosure. This is the most since the packs are scattered. Once the vicunas are properly grappled, they can be sheared. Their fur must be at for collection. Once they're sheared, they and then they're released Bolivia offers three types of fiber: raw fiber, cleaned fiber, Pre-carding fiber is the most expensive because it requires a process that involves manually removing bristles from the fleece. Pre-carding one to two After that, about 90% of it goes to Italy, and the rest is shipped to other countries for further processing. Lotus silk is one of the produced only on a small scale across Cambodia, Myanmar, and Vietnam. Extracting enough lotus silk for one scarf can take two months, and the final product can cost 10 times as much as regular silk. Silk usually comes from silkworms, but making lotus silk is different. Each thread of lotus silk starts with the stem of the lotus flower, and every single thread This natural fiber is only extracted by a few skilled craftspeople Once the stem is selected the silk inside can be extracted. Each stem contains a minuscule amount of thin stick fibers, which must be rolled together and dried. The threads need to be while they're still wet; So harvesting has to be done every day. And the lotus plants are between April and October. Once dry, these threads and delicately hand-spooled. Then they're put into the loom. The fibers are extremely delicate, but once woven can be as The material is soft as silk, breathable as linen, and slightly elastic. A 25-centimeter scarf can Real eiderdown is one of the warmest natural fibers you can find, and it doesn't come cheap. An eiderdown double duvet Compared to other goose or duck down, eiderdown is denser, This fiber is harvested from the nests of wild eider ducks found in Iceland. Collecting even a kilogram of this fluffy material isn't easy, because eider nests are During the breeding season, the eider ducks' down naturally sheds, and the female ducks use Eiderdown collectors on small boats to find every nest and collect the down by hand. The nests are scattered making them difficult to find. Each one contains just 15 grams of down. Once the down is harvested, the work has only just begun. Up to 80% of the weight of the harvest is made up of sticks, all of which needs to be removed. The feathers are sorted through an oven and multiple specially made machines, which draw out the debris. Each feather is then laboriously sorted and cleaned by hand. It takes about four or five hours to pick through 1 kilogram. Once every feather has the down is washed, pressed, and dried one last time. Eider ducks are strictly It's illegal to hunt them and every single eiderdown has to be checked for French Leavers lace is and expensive types of lace you can buy. More than 15,000 individual threads are woven together on a Leavers loom. A new design can take and 1 square meter can cost over $500. Each design is translated from paper into these punch cards, which are fed into the The looms run with extreme precision, which makes them essential But there are only a and they're no longer being made, so companies have to This one is over 100 years old. The machine might do the weaving, but it takes around 20 people to produce Leavers lace. Each step requires an expert. As the loom weaves a workers fill it with more threads. Loom experts, called tullists, are in charge of overseeing They watch and listen for any tears and make repairs while There are also lace inspectors, who inspect every inch of and make indistinguishable It takes at least five years to master one specific step, so finding these workers is a challenge. Dresses or lingerie made with Leavers lace usually cost a few hundred and items from brands like can go for a lot more. A pair of typical blue jeans but this pair of gold-label Momotaro jeans will set you back around $2,000. That's partly because it's instead of the synthetic dyes most jeans are made with today. It will take the artisan one to two months to dye these threads a deep indigo blue. After that, the denim will maintain its rich color for a long time. A kilogram of some synthetic indigo can cost between $4 and $5. Depending on the quality, natural indigo might cost 10 times that. The one Momotaro gets costs And that one bale is only enough to dye about 15 pairs of jeans. Natural dye contains a little yellow, which can subtly change the blue tones, creating a look that can't be achieved with synthetic indigo. Today, cheaper synthetic dyes have mostly replaced natural ones, so jeans still made with natural dyes are often considered a premium product. Plus, this denim has a It's softer than typical denim. That's because it's produced by hand with an antique loom. It takes one hour to weave just 10 centimeters of fabric. Then it goes through an extensive quality-control process. Cashmere is one of the in the world. It can be woven into incredibly soft, luxurious, long-lasting garments. One genuine cashmere sweater could cost you well over $500. The fiber comes from a cashmere goat, which can be found across the Himalayas, where temperatures can It's not the outer hair you can see that's used for making garments, but the supersoft coat just underneath it. It's softer, lighter, and can be up to three than sheep wool. But while a sheep can produce at least 3 kilograms of wool every year, a cashmere goat will only So one cashmere sweater requires up to 10 goats' Cashmere goats are usually brushed to remove the soft hairs Once the hairs have dirt, and thicker hairs, about half of the The fibers can only be so the supply is extremely limited. Plus, processing it, dyeing it, and aerating it is a lot of work. It's extremely soft, so it needs to be treated delicately, avoiding any chemicals or overprocessing.