If you think you know how the universe is going to knows for sure what the future has in store for from cyclic revivals to periods of infinite that's not to say that forecasting the capacities of science. By learning we can uncover what will help I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching the future of the universe -- a future or stars or galaxies--no longer any atoms the universe is lying on its deathbed. How And is there an afterlife for the universe? but their answers lie in our understanding of Ordinarily, gravity is an attractive force that or speeds up objects moving closer together. astronomers assumed our expanding universe They even came up with a parameter called q to the close of the 20th century, measurements a negative number -- the universe wasn't This acceleration is fundamentally tied in the universe. If the energy of ordinary it must take a very different form of energy to expansion of our universe. We call this thing is that we don't know what dark energy the very fate of the universe is tied to dark energy, the accelerated expansion of or even reverse course. Rather than making a to collect them all into one big flowchart to universe. At the top of the flowchart is what dark Most cosmologists would agree that dark main categories. First -- the most popular theory itself. Second -- the leading alternative -- is the universe that we simply haven't discovered collections of particles, this would mean that types of particles, beyond electrons or From these two categories, our flowchart is energy that are wildly different from each other On the vacuum energy side, we need to consider it can jump into a state of even lower energy A stable vacuum is by far the simplest scenario. for an eternity in the same form it takes on growing infinitely larger and colder in what's you wouldn't notice anything changing here since there's enough mass concentrated in this repulsion coming from dark energy. But if you galaxies are being accelerated away from our threshold known as the event horizon. Just like you can no longer communicate or interact with one by one, we'll lose contact with all galaxies enough to keep us close. All that will remain moments before they crossed the event horizon. that it too will be unobservable, and future down the road -- might have no idea that anything If you're wondering what will become of the stuff death. The Second Law of Thermodynamics says that entropy. When stars fuse hydrogen into helium up and winds soar across the atmosphere, and even the other side -- all of those processes increase grow so large. Eventually, stars will run out of winds will abate, and there will be no more to do but collapse into black holes, and black What we once called the Milky Way will be in a be happening. There will be nothing to happen. called Heat Death -- not because it's hot (in will be no more heat flow, no more temperature place to another. Admittedly, it might take a it 10106 years away, or 1096 times the current comes from a perfectly stable vacuum, then there There is one possible silver lining at the end of Sir Roger Penrose, a Nobel laureate and brilliant of our story, but merely a new beginning. In Penrose proposes that the radiation-filled indistinguishable from the state of the universe the same. Each aeon of infinite expansion and a new cycle of cosmology. There isn't much but it may be a source of hope to cling onto Freeze. You and I would not survive, but maybe the If the idea of a Big Freeze scares you, I've got is that there are reasons to believe that that vacuum state might not last forever, Big Freeze after all. One reason to doubt the of the Higgs field. Current measurements from CERN vacuum state than the one we live in, though it into this preferred vacuum. To paint a we can imagine an apple falling off a tree, rolling off into a small dip in the grass. A short the apple would absolutely be drawn toward, if not the apple is stuck, but quantum-mechanically, barrier into this lower-energy state, if you the same way, with its different vacuum states A second reason to doubt the stability of the string theory hasn't made any quantitative hints that stable vacuum states with positive theory also predicts the existence of new fields states much faster than the Higgs -- say, within Here comes the bad news, though: If we live the whim of a quantum-mechanical fluctuation, the Big Freeze. Quantum tunneling into a more of space, but it can also fundamentally alter the governing our universe. If the Higgs field falls protons and electrons will have completely we know them will cease to exist. Or if we tunnel our universe might suddenly contain new particles Earth would all but certainly be toast. As for the predict its fate more precisely without more Let's step back and take a look at the other side presence of new fields rather than the vacuum. evolve over time, which would in turn dictate vacuum states, which would have perfectly constant continuously gain or lose energy over time. Just fields experience friction as they evolve, so it's But physicists have shown that it's possible to energy" that overcome this "friction" and actually absolute havoc on the universe. Because their they eventually overpower the energy from Milky Way. This increase in energy heats up from all the cooling the universe has done over the expansion of space doesn't just continue to region of space will grow to infinite volume in a from today. And if you want to call for help, event horizon we spoke about earlier will shrink then our home, and then us. As this is happening, dark energy grow ever stronger, ultimately and nuclei in the universe into their constituent of singularity--where the universe is infinitely and hot -- has been called the Big Rip. But I'm dark energy exists only in the minds of theorists, more peacefully and loses energy over time. Here's where our flowchart starts to get a little field can evolve over time. There are two main the fate of the universe in this scenario: First, energy; and second, does the field's energy change positive and it loses energy very slowly, it would this case, we'd just be headed toward another Big is drained away very quickly, the universe would stop accelerating, and its future would depend of the universe itself. A flat or open universe but there would be no cosmic event horizon to as the eye can see. This may be the most peaceful other hand, a closed universe would eventually back in on itself, which sounds ... less peaceful. Having a closed universe is just one of The other way to see our Milky Way crushed to reach a negative potential energy. At that the universe stops expanding and begins to gravity turns cosmic friction into cosmic evolution and giving it more energy rather than there will be plenty of time for the universe to On the other hand, if the field gains energy fast mimicking conditions at the Big Bang at a rate so Way is even predicted to collide with Andromeda. it doesn't "crunch." In fact, the amount of Earth turns to toast. So what happens next? extremely high temperatures while contracting, of expansion, where it has time to cool off Bounce. In fact, the universe could go through scenarios open the door to a new type of cyclic which we've discussed in previous videos, in sequence of expansion, cooling, contraction, and even our own Big Bang 14 billion years connecting our own cycle of the universe This wraps up our master flowchart for all It could freeze to death, be ripped to shreds, quickly that it bounces into a brand new life but even just narrowing it down to four feat of science. So there's a great and dinner conversations. You're welcome. which of these four destinies would you pick Thanks for watching. And thanks to our crew of Astrumnauts over a Patreon who help us make us make science knowledge freely available to everyone. chasing the algorithm can be hit or miss sometimes So your contributions help us keep making the content we love. And if you haven't already but you want to join the Patreon, there's never been a better time to get in on the party. Just sign-up with the link in the description. When you join you'll be able to watch the whole video ad-free, See your name in the credits and submit questions to our team. Once again a huge thank you from myself and the whole Astrum team. Meanwhile, click the link to this playlist for more Astrum content. I'll see you next time.