I am Rylie Godoy I am from a very small town outside of Ottawa called Carleton Place. And there is like. Well, there's like 9000 of us, but it's a little bit I live in the Ottawa I am actually, since I now have two babies and I'm a wife, But I'm also a confidence The way I first discovered was actually So for a couple of months to my 27th birthday, I was using a oh my gosh, Like, a waist trainer? Okay, so like I want it to be snatched And I remember talking to my girlfriend at the time, the birthday party, I was having a joint birthday party because we had a slumber and I took off the waist. Trainer and I was like, Like my back hurts so bad. I feel like such an idiot Like, what am I doing? I shouldn't And she was like, Like whatever, and like And I was like, okay. So then we go out we have drinks, we dance, And then I come home I wake up and I'm of sweat in my bad. Like, it was so Like, obviously But like to my roommates, I obviously told them and I was like, Like, this is crazy. And that was I actually noticed that something was wrong Obviously, I was 27. I thought it was I never obviously thought this was happening, so I just kind of brushed and I didn't really It wasn't for for about like a month I would say, that there were more things happening was getting worse. So I remember specifically to go to work conference. It was exactly like I went to this work I met my now But when I was at top, going through that whole week I could just and so like, But I was again, I was diving into the drinks, pretending But when I came home from conference I actually went and when I went the first time, they that I, I pulled a back muscle, because I was using that stupid thing this is that's probably is So they just gave me like sent me on my way. And I was okay with that. We decided to fly out and have kind of And it was a lot of fun. But I noticed that again, pain was getting worse I was getting but it wasn't anything And I noticed me tell my roommates or like when I was in the apartment to just Like turning off the AC sweating so much. And I, we were like, like, So anyways, to LA and I don't and have fun or whatever, I could barely move I was truly, truly But it was like So again, just like now I feel like an idiot. But I was just acting like nothing happened And so I was so healthy. He would go and I was like, really quick and like, Like it was. It was just a lot. And then when I came home in August, I ended up again. And they were saying that oh, you you must have And I was like, doesn't let's pretend it's true. And I was being noticed How how low energy I was. And, like my boss not mad at me, you know, you're all of the time, Like, what's going on? And I'm like, in this new relationship. We talk all of the time like again, excuse And then when I'm going to the doctor, you know, like like back pain and oh maybe it's Maybe it's kidney pain. Maybe it's But all of the results take Advil, And and I started actually, as we started December is was starting to feel like in the middle of the night with crippling, crippling Like not being able to breathe when I would I was just Like, and I can't even But it was so hard I was trying I was in my mind doing like people and say, And I'd say, might be a kidney thing, it was just one thing And I felt like I was really trusting to give me the answers At one point, one of the doctors they were like, mono before And I was like, And I'm like, because And then I naturally like crazy, oh my God, he has HIV Obviously he didn't like Like he was like, you're and so I anyway, I'm realizing asking those questions of lymphoma. I'm like, before, you like it One thing that I didn't and I should have really of and and present with is that my dad had had lymphoma so it wasn't something because honestly, I didn't even realize They always called it So to me, it wasn't even that would be like cancer. And my mom a few years before but it wasn't This wasn't like a breast. I wasn't feeling any lumps on my breasts, of those symptoms. I don't know, like for me, top of mind until I started like a Because I was like, like, taking me realizing my symptoms and it being on my file getting a little bit lost Going to the E.R. all of these times, go to this my first meeting with her. So I was talking to her listen, I know that just supposed to be like, and tell you my history. But what's going on is I can't like I can't keep At this point, I my back If I drink any form of alcohol, which I don't, I feel like I'm acting as though I wasn't drinking as much as I think it's I Christmas time, I like I couldn't breathe. And it's so like my boyfriend and they were like, oh, It's just like, Anyways, so so I was like listing She literally pressed and she was like, right now and you have to get because there's like, this is way more serious I get my ultrasound done. They bring me back down is just being so funny. Like, he's making me laugh, like, Like blowing up Like, just, like making And then and he's so serious We just. Like we weren't, Like, we were just like little kids, Whatever. Until the doctor comes in Puts my bed into, like, sit up position. And I was like, Like, okay. Like, like, drop And then he's like, he was like, And we just don't know I had my biopsy done and when they took out because because and they took it And so I was Oh, I don't know if people but I was like asking them So how long have you been Like, a doctor for And then after I was like, I was like, so And they were like, Like 100%. It's cancer. I went back to Toronto, my best friend because she was with me So it didn't really And and, So it's stage four. You have, You're going to do If that doesn't work, And we'll have to like just see how it goes treatment. Because I, was so young Didn't start Which to me was something I didn't realize was like, I don't know, that that was even a thing Like, first thought am I going to have babies? Obviously my first thought was, am And so when I went to Ottawa and met he was pretty much like, if you want that, then we need to go through And you obviously can't start treatment So the treatment he had always suggested observed treatment until and if it didn't work then I would be and if I did, the more, chemo, that was the one and I would lose And so he was like, We can't once like, we can't go back. For me, in between the diagnosis during this IVF process. So number one, So Philippe actually just, didn't cover to talk about Only because it's relevant he had decided as soon I'm coming, I don't care. I'm going to come to come whether I lose my job I'm going to come I'm not. I'm not So once I moved home and screaming my parents were like, whatever she wants And if he And we had the smallest house ever was living there, my brother was living my niece was there every couple of weeks, a packed house. But I was so sick and my parents were like, So it was so, so weird dating Philippe seven months and I'm like, Yes or no? Because if you don't, then I'm not like, you know, I don't care for it, Like, I just want to. I'm in so much pain. I just need to move on and hope it works. Treatment alone is the 12 rounds of ABV Essentially it was chemo every two weeks With all of those drugs. They do drugs and, the side effects it was really weird first round of chemo, Don't get me wrong again, It makes you so nauseous. It makes you so weak. But for me, and I had been waiting months and months Not months, maybe a month and a half through this IVF stuff. So for me, I was in so much pain so relieved because I just was like, I could breathe again, I which was also an amazing sign okay, it's obviously working like something, And then this after I was kind of told, okay, you're going to lose your hair after this one. And I did. And then, then I yeah, I did. I just kept going back, I did have neuropathy, when you're, you're getting of a certain drug. And then, if you don't heal, if you don't feel like it with your practitioner or your oncologist, that you could actually end up which essentially just means you truly cannot feel or you lose like, Well, for me some of my friends the Young Adult Cancer they also have neuropathy So I don't know but yeah, so it was like that for, for And then I got that But one thing for me So after the fourth they is when they do another round and all of the testing that it is working. And that was when I felt like more comfortable because like, okay, are we going makeup or is Because Abby was obviously my brother at the time, because we were living he was living as me, as I was going He came up to me after, and he was like, I have this Like, I was like 100%. I was like, you Like now. Now mom, dad and me So like you definitely do. So luckily for him, I got him in and he ended up and but unlucky for him is that he got as someone lymphoma with it So he also had to do Abby as well. But I think for the only brother sister duo that I had to I was going to, I got to. But I don't know right, like, Like, but that did at the hospital and, and at the so weird, but, really as a big brother and not let me do that Hodgkin's lymphoma for Or they claim so it's environmental. So we There's actually no Hodgkin lymphoma at all. There's only testing genetic But some of the cells in the breast cancer testing can also So I actually did do that for breast cancer. I qualified because my mom But there was no there was no genetic for the Hodgkin's But I do know that Hodgkin's is so rare. Like it So to me, it's it must have been an environment thing, but what throws me off My brother for a few more years, and I had like, the same environment So I don't know. It truly is still but yeah, I know my, the, genetic cancer one came back and any of this, the transferable cells And you know what's You know, but it must be my house, passed We found out on his like They were like, It's like It has to be the house. But I didn't live so I have no idea. I am officially I in on August 2nd was I'm like so happy. I got so emotional because it's such, weigh on you Because one thing people who aren't too, is when you hear that they're cancer they're cancer free So especially going back to that that in itself survival But that's but that is truly That's not that's That rate has not gone up have at this point. But but anyways, yeah. So now I'm I did have a little bit of a scare which kind of brought me back to reality, It was definitely a world when because after two weeks got married to my now And then we moved back for a couple of years. Obviously went through But the other thing everybody was going the mental health stuff. And for me, I felt like, to to have gone and not this year, people who were going and going to the hospital, like outpatients, to chemo. And they were being like were mad at them I saw, like people were like attacking them for going up, It was just I felt so grateful to actually not be I felt awful in that situation. I felt like I couldn't about my mental health because the world was And it's not you. It's not about you And like I, I had a year ahead of because I was like, So you you don't really You can't really leave You don't really have the energy So it was like and then obviously And so trying to make that there was a lot of things going on If there's anything that I learned from it's that being honest and raw about what you've got, how it's affecting you to feel comfortable so miserable. Like you're okay. Like once and you open up and you tell the people that you're going through Like, I think the most important thing with yourself. Be comfortable the feelings They're all so valid. And I think that the more you open up about that that are supporting and just being with you, they will respect it And I think the one thing our world is truly lacking is a little bit But I think that's only to be vulnerable So if anybody comes I would say do your best as you can with the parts of you because it will We all need people and we are all going Whether we have a million people So the more open we can be with our friends and the more loving