- Welcome back, y'all! Check it out! Just outside our studio, crews are putting the finishing touches on this year's Rockefeller Christmas tree. On December 4th, we'll of &quot;Christmas in Rockefeller Center.&quot; I'm also gonna be hosting I'm very excited. It's a huge honor for me and my entire band, Jason Halbert, who's with me right now. Give it up for Jason! (audience clapping and cheering) So each year, NBC 4 New York to select one star choir to perform on the broadcast. Last year it was the choir in Secaucus, New Jersey. They not only performed on the broadcast, we surprised them with some money to help out with the choir. John Zisa, the director from last-year's-star-choir-winning He's also a fellow American Idol alum. It's good to see you again! - You as well, Kelly! - Yeah, how's the choir doing right now? - Oh, Kelly, the choir's really awesome. You and Jason and NBC 4 and Telemundo, with the Star Choir a true experience of a lifetime. We've had quite a year We actually performed of &quot;Kimberly Akimbo&quot; on Because of the competition, to afford a really for our musical last We did &quot;A Chorus Line&quot; in April and then over the summer we of a summer intensive camp with the kids that we recognize, you Kids can't always afford They can't always come into New York City and take, you know, classes and all the big dance places. So we decided to give them an opportunity within the house of the school. We hired a bunch of masterclass artists and teaching artists that came in, some have performed on Broadway, to really work with the kids. And we only could do it because of NBC and &quot;The - Look, I was a kid in choir! I would've freaked out that's incredible! - Yeah, well thanks to you. I mean it's something with them and we wanted to make sure that we kept them moving in the summer to get ready for this season. And we started in September with a bang and we're now we're on our way. And we are so excited for 'cause they're gonna be on quite a ride. - Yeah, and thanks to you-not us, thanks to you for That's really powerful, man. - Thank you, I appreciate it. - It's really cool for kids that otherwise wouldn't. All right, well now let's So it's a tough choice again, right? - I mean it's always a tough choice. I mean, choir nerds like us, you know what impact this has. Things like this can be a core memory for you as a child. So not only is it hard is remarkable, but you're aware of the opportunities they have. So this year 72 choirs and NBC in 4 New York and down to three, and then Kelly, you and I selected the winning choir. And it was, all the but as you know, we from Neptune High School. - Yeah, all right, well let's Deck the halls with boughs of holly Fa-la-la-la-la, la-la-la-la 'Tis the season to be jolly Fa-la-la-la-la, la-la-la-la Don we now our gay apparel Fa-la-la-la-la, la-la-la-la La Troll the ancient Yule-tide carol Fa-la-la-la-la, la-la-la-la (crowd applauding) - Oh, saw some body rolling there that was my favorite part! All right, here's the cool thing, so Scarlet Sound still And we have &quot;News 4 New at the high school right now. So the kids just think - Yeah, hey Kelly, no, they can't hear us right now. I'm trying to whisper. They're here behind me warming up. I'm in the back of the auditorium. I cannot wait for you to hear them. They're so talented. They're so deserving. You're gonna be blown away. - Oh, I'm very excited. Okay, well Natalie, don't go anywhere and actually everybody don't go anywhere. When we come back, those kids are in for a big surprise and they're performing at the world famous, &quot;Christmas in Rockefeller You don't wanna miss this. So we have &quot;News 4 New York's&quot;, Natalie Pasquarella at and the kids just think So, hi Natalie, who do you have with you? - Hi Kelly, I'm here with Erin Radvanski. She is the choir teacher and I wanna introduce you to Everybody say hi to Kelly! - [Scarlet Sound] Hi, Kelly! - As you can see, they're We're so thrilled to get to talk to you. They call her Miss Rad so we're gonna talk to you about that. You said it's been your You were inspired by - Yes, so growing up I that really inspired me in the academics. I had my choir teachers in me and gave me so much confidence. And so, you know, as Kelly and so for me, I just that I took everything that and give back to my students, so. - So much talent here and because this is an extracurricular, so much fundraising is - Yes, so we are an acapella group and so we compete in the of High school Acapella and it's an expensive And so we use fundraising to kind of offset the cost of that. - So much goes into it. We know that we wanna talk to some of these talented students. Joining us, we have Clifton and Luke. Thank you guys for joining us here today. Clifton, what would it to perform at &quot;Christmas - So I've been musically I played the piano and last year I sat in on a choir class and I was like, &quot;Oh, this should be fun.&quot; She let me play the piano for it. And then that snowballed and being with this that feel, that is And to sing at the tree lighting with this family would be awesome. - Yeah. - That's wonderful, truly like family. Luke, how would you feel? - Well, when it comes to Scarlet Sound, I honestly auditioned for it on a whim. Beatboxing was something that I tried learning and I sort of just Then back in freshman year, Xavier, who is the beatboxer, he was like, &quot;Luke, you're good at this, you should audition&quot;, and I did. Being able to bring such a unique and different sound compared to other choirs is just And I'm just so thankful to be surrounded by such talented musicians, friends, you guys are like my family. - [Scarlet Sound] Aw. - Aw, collective sigh here, okay. All right, so Kelly, You gotta show her what you've got, guys! Are you guys ready? - [Scarlet Sound] Yeah! - Okay, let's show, Kelly. Let's show Kelly what you've got! - [Ms. Radvanski] &quot;Joy to the World.&quot; Joy to the world; the Lord has come Let Earth receive her King Let every heart prepare his room And heaven and nature sing And heaven and nature sing And heaven, and - Oh, amazing job! - Oh, it's so great! (audience and Kelly claps) Oh my gosh, great job, y'all! - [Scarlet Sound] Thank you! - Oh, Kelly, as you know, You can just imagine what to perform at &quot;Christmas - Absolutely, that was so great, guys! We have exciting news! We've reviewed all the audition tapes and I'm pleased to announce (drum drum rolling) Neptune High School is the winner! (Scarlet Sound cheering All right you guys, y'all are you're gonna sing at the tree lighting! (Scarlet Sound screaming) On, on, they're freaking out. I'm gonna see y'all there too. I'll be there too, congratulations! (Scarlet Sound cheering) I've been freaking out too. No, and that's not all, you not only won, I'm gonna see, I can't wait to see all there. And also NBC 4 New York and to help support your music program. (crowd clapping) (Scarlet Sound cheering) And wait, wait, wait, wait, one of you, I love the girl freaking out, the blonde is my favorite right now. Okay, I have even more, so our friends at Balsam Hill, who have decorated all for the holidays, they are kicking in an additional $5,000 donation. So that's a total of (audience clapping and Now all I'm saying, I dunno but all I'm saying is I better see you moving still I like the fact that you are Music is joyful, you Your body should be able to sing too. So I can't wait to see I'll see y'all soon. Thank y'all so much We love you! (Scarlet Sound and audience cheering) Thank you to Erin and all the students. &quot;Christmas in Rockefeller on NBC and Peacock on Wednesday, December 4th at 8:00 P.M. And if you live in the Tri-state area or other select cities, coverage starts at 7:00 where you can see this choir perform. I'm super stoked. Y'all check your local listing.