(&quot;Battle Hordes&quot;) - [Narrator] In the deepest, lies a place of legends, (thunder rumbling) with mountains of ice and lakes of fire. The impenetrable jungles are filled with mysterious beasts and are home to the wildest of people. Prepare to enter Africa's fiery heart. (lava exploding) (pleasant music) (&quot;Isle of Enchantment&quot;) The Virungas are a tropical land of ice and fire. They are located along the crest of the and straddled Uganda, Rwanda, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The Virungas are in the of King Solomon's Mines. They hide the long-sought and are the rumored lair of This mysterious and dramatic and blanketed by the whose trees are filled than anywhere else in the world. This region was the last place in Africa to be discovered by Why did this mysterious land What secrets lie hidden inside And why do so many animals and people live in the deadly (wind swooshing) This whole region is volcanic. A branch of Africa's Great Rift Valley, the Virunga Mountains are While six of the Virungas are dormant, two are very much alive. Nyiragongo is one of the most Erupting every 5 to 10 years. Its permanent lava lake is At any moment, the volcano could erupt, spilling its deadly force across the rich jungle-clad mountains, which are home to an and diversity of life. (gentle music) This volcanic ash fertilized jungle is a World Heritage Site. And some extraordinary animals live here. From colorful birds to exotic lizards and from strange monkeys to great apes. (thunder booming) In 1898, a white elephant came across the skeleton This sparked rumors of giant killer beasts rampaging the jungles here. But it wasn't until 1902 that the mountain gorilla subspecies was scientifically recognized (charming music) The largest of all gorillas, mountain gorillas evolved after their volatile forest home erupted thousands of years ago. The isolated slopes of the Virungas are one of only two places in the world where mountain gorillas can be found. (gorilla grunting) About 400 survive here today. (gorilla whining) But even though they can look fierce, they are, in fact, very placid animals. Mountain gorillas live at altitudes of more than 3,000 meters where the temperature plummets How is it possible such large animals can survive so high up in the cold? A thick insulating coat protects They have huge appetites, eating over 20 kilograms of food a day to sustain their 1.8-meter-high frame and 180-kilogram massive bulk. This kind of extreme in the very rich jungles which have been fertilized from thousands of years (slow music) As the volcanoes Nyiragongo breathe their poisonous the thick forest cover acts as a filter, protecting and hiding the It's the thick clouds and that prevented White explorers from venturing into this The Virungas became a land lost in time. The ancient writings of the Egyptians told tales of a strange who lived in the deepest of jungles on the steep slopes of the Virungas. (alarming music) (wings fluttering) (pig squeals and snorts) The Batwa Pygmies are the original ancient They survive between 1 and 2,000 meters on the steep slopes of the volcanoes where they have lived for (pig snorting) They rely on hunting. But the jungle doesn't give Each Batwa must become an expert hunter, (pig snorting) able to melt into the jungle's backdrop, and stalk their prey. Poison-tipped arrows speed up the kill. (pig snorting) (sniffing) (pig squealing) (alarming music) (pig grunting) (pygmies speaking in foreign language) (pig squealing) (pig squealing and grunting) Jungle pigs are rare, but this kill will keep the (Batwa singing in foreign language) The Batwa are famed for And the ancient Egyptians as dancing dwarves from It wasn't until 1890 that White explorers first met the Batwa, the world's smallest people. Pygmies are on average around Scientists think they're so small so they can survive on very few calories. The forest is not suitable So the Batwa are forced to survive by hunting and gathering what they can. Their staple diet is fruit, vegetables, and meat from the forest, all of which are difficult to find. They live in small temporary huts constructed with leaves and branches. These are abandoned after a few months when they relocate to in search of fresh supplies of food. Finding constant food that the Batwa are especially for a sweet treat. This Batwa uses an age-old so he can collect the Only a few Batwa are experienced enough to brave the angry insects. With no protective gear, he's at the mercy of the bees' anger. But the smoke helps to calm the bees down and prevents them from sting him. (singing in foreign language) The Batwa are timeless. They sing and dance to rejoice and celebrate the successful hunt. They exist in this exotic forest much as they have for the By only taking what they they have achieved a harmony with nature. There is no need for change. And if their forest home remains stable, they could live here for But a permanent threat lies Nyiragongo could erupt at any time. (ominous music) Its lava lake is always active. Bubbling away at 1,000 degrees Celsius, lava is molten rock. It is usually 100,000 But Nyiragongo's lava is unusually fluid because of a unique chemical makeup. And during eruptions, races downhill at up to During the last major eruption in 2002, a 13-kilometer fissure opened in the south flank of the volcano. (lava gurgling) (lava whooshing) (lava explodes) (volcano erupts) Lava poured out from the fissure and flowed in a stream and up to two meters deep. It covered 16 kilometers, reaching the town of Goma killing dozens of people and leaving hundreds The local wildlife was also forced to flee as their Garden of Eden But nature soon recovered and the volcanic ash making it even richer than it was before. (gentle music) It now provides food and who've chosen to make the Virungas home. Around 500 meters further down the slopes from the mountain gorillas lives another great ape. Dark, familiar eyes peer out They belong to our chimpanzees. (delightful music) These apes share 98% of By observing them, we hold up a mirror to Chimps live in large mixed led by an alpha male. They are well adapted to their forest life by being excellent climbers and by helping each other such as fruits, flowers, and leaves which are found in abundance in this rich, verdant rainforest. Because they are so large, Their only threat comes from farmers encroaching upon their forest habitat. They unwind by grooming each other. As well as keeping each other clean, grooming is also very relaxing and helps to maintain among family and other troop members. (chimp chattering) (chimp pant-hooting) This six-month-old baby has a lot to learn if he's to climb the social ladder. (joyous music) But for now, he's content by practicing his tree climbing whilst his mother looks anxiously on. (baby chimp yelps) As in humans, childhood Play is an important activity (chimp panting) (chimps screeching) (chimp pants) But this mother knows that if her baby falls and hurts himself, his injuries could be fatal. (chimp shrieks) So she watches him carefully, ready to chastise any (chimps pant-hooting) Communication is very important The pant-hoot is the and is used to express excitement and feelings of sociability. Although chimps are excellent climbers, they prefer to travel longer where it's easier to move about. (chimps pant-hooting) They feast on ripened fruits Up in the canopy of these forested slopes lives a rich community of (alluring music) The forest echoes with their calls. (animal calls ringing) The Virungas are home to And within the forest lives one of Africa's Weaver birds get their name because of their elaborately woven nests. This tree is home to two separate species. Each builds nests of They usually use fine leaf fibers, grass, and twigs for building materials. It's the males who weave the nests and use them as a form of display They weave a ring, which The weaving is done by threading This male is still in the early His neighbor is much further But this neighborhood is not While this male collects more grass, his neighbor sees an opportunity (playful music) and attempts to steal from his nest. The male returns, and his neighbor's vandalism is thwarted. And so tit for tat, the neighbor's nest now gets raided as well. It's little better next door. Two males are fighting over territory. In order to attract a female, This one has finally got the attention of a potential partner. She inspects the nest. If she likes what she But she's not impressed and moves on. The branches of the jungle trees are home to great numbers of monkeys. (nimble music) Because of the abundance red-tailed monkeys rarely The ground is patrolled by baboons who eat fallen fruits and insects. They roam the slopes in large troops. The jungle's bounty is a Baboons are opportunistic feeders, eating wherever, whenever, They travel up to six kilometers But as darkness falls, all In the baboon troop, a few keep guard because deep in the forest, there's reason to be scared of the dark. (thunder rumbling) (thunder echoing) (groans) Leopards are highly capable hunters, very agile in the trees, and they can also survive altitude, making them the perfect predator to stalk the mountain rainforests Agitated by the brewing storm, (daunting music) But this makes no difference to the prowling leopard. The noise of thunder masks its movements (thunder rumbling) and confuses the baboons. (thunder rumbling) (baboon barking) The leopard is swift, (baboon barking) (baboon barking) (baboon yelping) (baboon barks) One baboon has become isolated and the leopard hones in. (baboon screeching) (baboon screeching) (baboon shrieking) (baboon yelping) (baboon yakking) Baboons have poor night vision and are the most likely monkey (baboon barks) The leopard devours the baboon To drop it to the ground would risk sacrificing (baboon barking) (baboon barking) But this kill was not Large baboon troops have been known to mob and severely injure them. But this night's success (thunder rumbling) Leopards are too heavy to hunt in the very tops of the trees. So smaller monkeys usually stick to the highest canopy for safety. (tranquil music) But some treats are just These mangabey monkeys have in the heart of the jungle, a mineral rich swamp. Mangabeys will eat just about anything, and swamp weed is a particular favorite. (mangabey grunting) The call of the black-and-white (grunts) Its guttural sound comes and is used to announce territory. (pleasant music) The pickings are so good, both A baby mangabey is quick to learn to indulge in the tasty buffet. Others use all their cunning and agility to reach far out into the swamp. But they mustn't make the fatal mistake of lowering their guard (chilling music) This murky swamp hides (mangabeys shrieking) Alarm calls and agility (gentle music) The extremely rich volcanic jungle can support more primates than Over 13 separate types live here. This is a world of monkeys who, while mindful of predators, live oblivious to the ever-present threat of the volcano's deadly force. The Ugandan red colobus Only about 2,000 are left in the wild. Their numbers are dwindling because they're being heavily hunted. These monkeys are superb Seeking out the safety they're safe from leopard attacks. They need to eat a wide variety of plants throughout the year, which can only be found in The name colobus means mutilated in Greek. They're so called because Because of this, baby monkeys when learning to climb. All seems tranquil, but in the jungle, (mangabey yakking) The peace is disturbed by an alarm call. Confusion causes the colobus to scatter, straight into the arms of killer apes. (mangabeys shrieking) (chimps pant-hooting) The chimps are stationed at The colobus have nowhere to hide, and the chimps are fast and focused. (monkeys shrieking) (ape growling) (ape pant-hooting) The colobus dive-bomb the chimps. (monkeys shrieking) But fueled by testosterone, Meat is a highly priced commodity. Ever mindful of politics, the successful hunters share the spoils with those who they want such as females and higher ranking males. It has always been assumed that apes were mainly vegetarians, eating mostly fruit and leaves. But now it's clear that chimps This troop has a larger Perhaps as a result, they They're the biggest threat to This behavior is extremely Of all the chimp population only a couple are known to These dense jungles hold many surprises, including one hidden inside which could violently erupt at any moment. (lava crackling) The hot volcanic lava burning would kill everything in its path. But there's an even bigger threat should the volcanoes erupt. If the lava were to reach it could cause a catastrophe. Lake Kivu is full of Molten lava would ignite Kivu is one of only three known exploding lakes in the world. (water gurgling) These fishermen come from to fish here, to one of the most dangerous Lake Kivu sits at sea part of the Rift Valley slowly being pulled apart. This volcanic activity could wipe out life in Lake Kivu covers a surface area of over 2,500 square kilometers. And at 45 meters deep, it is one of the deepest (water splashing) The volcanic shifts have caused to build up in massive quantities. It has never exploded. But if the methane were ever ignited, the carbon dioxide released for miles around. And this whole area is richly populated by both people and animals. In fact, one of Uganda's most sits right at the base of the Virungas, Queen Elizabeth National Park. Its landscape is dotted dating back over two million years. The volcanic soil enriches the grassland, creating a plentiful home for animals. It's the kobs' mating season, and so the savanna is a hive of activity. The males fight to attract the females and to ward off competition. (active music) The park's main headquarters home to some of the region's banded mongooses. (playful music) These cheeky characters are on Making the most of tourist leftovers keeps this band well fed. (mongooses screeching) (mongooses chittering) Some of the mongooses They're unsure as to what But this warthog presents to the more resourceful The mongooses here have are actually roaming buffets. (delightful music) And the warthogs don't Some of the hogs even to offer up a hairy harvest enjoying the free grooming Nooks and crannies are the best sources of particularly large and juicy ticks. The grooming sessions before the mongooses are replete. And now it's time for a communal rest, giving their full stomachs time to digest their strange meal. Banded mongooses are highly sociable and live in groups of about 20. They are very similar to meerkats and spend their days foraging, resting, and looking out for each other. (gloomy music) The wildlife of the Virungas The animals benefit from the rich soil, but also from permanent But volcanic activity a reminder of the ever-present threat. These hot springs well up providing salt for animals These wetland birds are visiting from the where they live. The ancient lakes were formed millions of years ago by the shifting of the Known as the African Great Lakes, they are some largest and in the world. There are nine great lakes in total and many dozens of smaller crater lakes. They are spread over the which covers over 7,500 square kilometers and range in altitude from sea The lakes are fed by But it was once thought they This sparked an excited all desperately searching for the origin of this great river. (imposing despondent music) Some died on their quest, most came home none the wiser. But in 1888, Henry Morton finally solved the mystery of the Nile by accidentally discovering right next to the Virunga volcanoes. It's almost always entirely But a brief clearing of the sky allowed Stanley and his party to glimpse this 5,000-meter The ancient Egyptians described this area as the site of the legendary So called because of Locals called them the And they turned out to be the The lower parts of the Rwenzori are covered with dense Everywhere there is immense fertility due to the very heavy rainfall falling 300 days of the year, which is why the region's cloud At higher altitudes, the by forests made of giant, covered by lichens and moss. The Rwenzori three-horned at altitudes of over 3,000 meters. This miniature triceratops and the only chameleon adapted to life at these high altitudes. The plants found here have also adapted to the cooler conditions high up. Close to the snow line, the temperature frequently (majestic music) Finally, towards the peaks, eternal snow and glaciers. It's these melting glaciers Like a land lost in time, permanent snow caps the So on Africa's equator, ice (dramatic music) The Virungas, at any moment, the volcanoes causing mass devastation. (lava gurgling) And fertilizes the dense tropical jungles, giving birth to a super abundance of life, mysterious mountains, people, and the wildest of animals. (pleasant music)