Hello, Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to on point Greg Locke where we like to talk about three Family and Politics of all of the people that we been together here at On Point in the studio, political figures and you know that I don't shy and most excited today about these two men of God of you know Pastor Vlad and Isaiah Saldivar, these they're a little bit younger, maybe a lot of statesman with the gray hair in the room but I ministries so so much. They have taught me volumes here's what we're going to do, I'm going to these give you his last name but I'm not going to, I'm to take a couple of moments and really tell us Ministry, how the Lord kind of baptized you into but just kind of give us the short end of how it like me where you had to come out denominationally moment to change it. So I'm going to start with and then we'll talk about the nitty-gritty of Well, thank you I'm glad to be here. Absolutely. For me it happened with my uncle who is my pastor HungryGen and from the beginning, he was a Pioneer exposing us at the age of 13 and 14 ,he would take sure if it's the best thing to take a teenager today I'm probably it's a good idea to do that and age. But the first Deliverance that I was involved 17. I was a youth pastor from 16 to about 30 and life to Christ and after the service, he started witchcraft and all of this stuff and I've watched you receive Jesus Christ, you also if you've been stuff, that's all I knew, I knew you had to repent out and that was my simple three step strategy guy already did the first part now we need to do I said, would you be willing to repeat the prayer p.m already, almost everybody's gone, just a few do whatever we need to do and I just want more a prayer, I feel this inspiration from the Holy I didn't read this in the book or anything just he's beginning to pronounce the words and he his hands go like this and it almost seems like that I shouldn't be standing near him. He can't almost like in the movies like in those videos you have to, you have to, so he finally the moment out, something just he just screamed out and I was like, oh my God, this is awesome. it was just only one problem is that he was like I'm like 17 year old youth pastor, I'm the oldest we have an Italian guy that's lying over you can get up now. We're done. We're finished responding. So I'm going for his pulse and I'm not a guy and I am nervous, my guys are looking at I was like, I don't know, massage him, let's try Jesus picked up a boy when He delivered him and that he's like when Deliverance was taking place, he's like, I'm so glad you held me back otherwise that nobody held him back. Everyone stepped away angels of God were pretty much protecting that was delivered, the next morning we find out he was lungs because of smoking and so God supernaturally first, I would say introduction into Deliverance so a lot of times, when people hear these stories get people to understand, this is not Hollywood, God. So tell us how the Lord gets you involved in different. I was 19 kind of get an idea of where I famous line is like December 31st 2010, I was at didn't go to church, none of that and then January my living room. So we have this prayer meeting, I being saved. A friend of mine, I don't know if it we are all praying and this lady falls on her didn't know really what it was. I was raised in I had not gone to church for three years. I got I haven't slept in few days, wasn't eating on her back during prayer, she starts growling, well I guess, I mean what else are we going to I don't recommend anybody watching to do this. tonight too but I get on top of this lady like one do this. I didn't know what I was doing and demon. So I'm looking down her mouth because you know I'm yelling at this lady and everyone's they got me off of her and we ended up praying, her and we cast these demons out of her and here's first demon, there's no going back. Never. can never go back to it's not real. So we did my friends were coming over getting delivered, screaming. I didn't have a religious pastor tell was for yesterday. I didn't have anyone teaching taught me. Amen. Jesus said the Holy Spirit's remember one night, let me share this one story, I was at my house still with my parents so my mom officer and it's two in the morning, we're in the morning my mom wakes up, Isaiah so I'm like because we were casting out demons all night and tomorrow. So my mom comes out and she's like not using the name of enough so I'm just thinking my mom's you know waking up in the middle of the these young guys casting out demons, laying hands the next 12 years of traveling, preaching, we you can't go back, it's Jesus did it everywhere it. Mark 16 every believer. So I'm like why not? think people that live this life and people know this is going to sound risque but it's like no Supernatural like that's the fun stuff and are your hobbies? I'm like, Casting out demons, fighting is fun, going against kingdom of darkness been going ever since. Wow that is powerful and cannot. I mean once it happened in our church, that moment. I want both of you guys to speak what is so controversial about this? Why is the other than the fact that they like dignity more what are you seeing in Washington state, why That's an interesting question. Because they do. fear also, some people have a fear that it's going yeah the problem is that a lot of people that do not ignorant. I feel like the people who are curiosity, understanding that there is a spiritual the spiritual realm and so and I found out that if and through coffee, you're gonna have to keep our goal is not to please people, our goal is crowds not because He was talking about think an exercise and align your chakras. He was dealing see that a lot of people are afraid that this is and people will get offended, the only people I've not people who are unbelievers. Absolutely. about real power of God where at the end when them and say, Hey was that real like was that you, we would even interview people after Deliverance and they will begin to tell the story like we lived for 10 years in our city did not know that he starts to have demonic attacks, he wakes up a Catholic church so he understands that there is to Mexico to get Deliverance. He gets Deliverance across the street that does deliverances so actually starts to pretty much as a demon is the objects in the house, finally the demon is all this scratches, all of the nightmares are somebody driving six hours to be in our meeting, Hey I'm going to this place Hungry Generation what? So he's like so he comes to that service alcoholic, she gets delivered that service and now He brings his dad who gave his life to Christ bringing his family. So I believe that Deliverance they're hungry for because people are in torment I'll give you a couple reasons, I'd say one is frustrated these pastors don't understand, they're God, how frustrated I am and God's like, they experienced it. They've never seen it and people afraid of the unknown. It's like Peter, Jesus go out deeper and pastors don't want to go deeper. have our nice restaurant, our gym, all were paid don't want to deal with these issues, so they'll go to your doctor. Yeah. What are you talking I came for deliverance and so there's massive We all know Deliverance takes work and if you messing with the Monday night football like you're I'm supposed to be golfing, it takes work and it Yeah because when you start doing Deliverance what you're like, oh man I need to get delivered. So I a mix of laziness, there's a mix of they don't the taboo of we've never seen it. We think it's the tombs. Jesus cast the demon. Think about this, chains, I mean he's out in the graveyard, no one he's fine. He's in his right mind the Bible says, now he's clothed, he's fine, he comes in the one of them because I say this all the time but to beg Jesus to leave. Yeah you're telling me beat down demonized, now that the world's getting they go from being out of their mind in now you're mad, now you're begging Jesus to like I don't think you do because when people start coming that don't fit into your way, you your cameras and all that, people start coming they want to get delivered and so man we got to The one thing we can stand on that they can't is to why you don't do Deliverance. I have tons of I don't have the burden of proof, you do. Prove to I'm the one that has the Bible saying I've talked to you long here but I'll stop with mercy of someone with an argument. You have and theology so like the balls in my court. you keep manifesting, yelling, screaming. come over. We'll be here because I really believe too far talking about this. Oh no. I'm gonna do me in the middle for the show and I'm telling because this guy makes coffee nervous and this he's just kind of watching it so I love it but people and demons still respond the exact same ministry of Deliverance. Demons still act away and They still act the same way. Oh what new doctrine since Deliverance has broken out. What has Greg in some National Geographic nonsense, he really if you would read the Bible for five minutes, shall follow them that belief whereas I was these signs shall follow those that have been to were only Apostles and once the apostles died, all hunts well until it starts happening in a church so it's not like we can go back from this, I could to the Holy Spirit. But it's what Jesus called He said no man can do a miracle in My name and is the finger of God, the finger of God and so religious setting of people in a synagogue that have been there for years. They weren't wicked, had submitted themselves to the Mosaic law and yet and teaching, they did not have enough authority but when Jesus walked in the room, that man with love how Derek Prince puts it, Jesus left the man man. The average church in America would leave the synagogue and so what do you see, what is your start with you, do you see a kind of a moving mainstream that people are really getting on board more the New Age movement grows, the more the need look at all these social media companies, Tik Witchcraft, magic, spells look at all the all witchcraft. So what's the resistance? We're about it, we're actually going to go demonstrate mega churches that would never even consider this you come do Deliverance on my pastors. I go to Pastor said, we've been here 20 plus years, we've come teach on it and we went in there, we taught opening up the eyes of the church to see that this it's Jesus's Ministry. I didn't start it, Jesus They're getting excited about it. God is moving the pastor saying like why are we not doing this because it is in the Bible. So he's stuck with the word of God. Here's what I always tell people you're always wrong. The Bible's never wrong so if the Bible if you don't want it so I think there's the ministry of Jesus, it's the ministry of a ministry of interference. Yeah. The demon said, today, we need to interfere with the Devil, he's his schemes and plans so how do we stop them, with you. I'm going to look right at you, whether I'm here to interfere because the devil has a plan they bring their dead chickens and I'm like, wing stuff over here because I'm not afraid of a they come and they say, warlock and witch come to well, I'm a warlock and I'm a witch. I said first what they're there for. I said second of all, so am I. I'm here on assignment as well. I'm not you. I was at a church and they said, all the waving at me. I said, I'll preach a hole right spirit that raised Christ is living in us. So yeah is moving man. I'm excited to be part, I just want don't have to be in the forefront, I just want want to miss what God is doing so absolutely. right now and it's a blessing, you know, you spoke kind of play off his answer and the question, you spirit guide and yet the church is denying angels, seeing a rise in the new age, a rise in witchcraft Deliverance to rise to the forefront, are you A hundred percent. I think that the the lack of Yes. But this vacuum, we have to understand is who made them in His image and likeness. There's we came from that realm, we're gonna go back to and so when we take away the supernatural from we're doing is we're depriving people, I believe gospel is supernatural. Yeah. Jesus being born flesh. You can't explain that. Right. There's that, that is supernatural. Yes. Everything and dead. He gave us the power of the Holy Spirit to Spirit and so when we take away the supernatural that people are thirsty and people are hungry and new age because new age offers a counterfeit. but when you are thirsty and you're dying out I have a dog, my Jocko sometimes he does not water there and then a toilet water. Now I'm that's not a water you want to drink from because they will not see the difference because they oh yeah it just connects me to a spirit guide. talk to the universe. Law of Attraction. It's we feel the hunger and the thirst of people with glorifies Jesus, prioritizes salvation from sin, people but we release these people to set the it started a long time ago but God is capitalizing before His second coming. I think that we will I think that we will confront the devil's done before. We will see the demonstration of the but it will come at the high price of persecution, not serve Jesus and I think that we've seen the the worship movement, we've seen the restoration Luther did. We've seen the small group ministry of that has to I feel like has to dominate the church Deliverance. Amen. A global awakening. I tell our church has been waiting on for decades. Yeah and I mean a strict, I mean I speak on cessationists it happen. It manifested literally before my up. You can go on in denial which is nothing more the flow and say okay, here it is and there's no right. They're hungry, they're coming from they'll find where you're parked. When Deliverance you'll never have to post, people will come and fame spread once He started casting out demons so tell people to stop talking about it. Yes. There He was actually telling people make sure you don't crowds are massive. Yeah there's a huge demand and people to stand up do the work and it's sad how be on Judgment Day, yeah and God will say look Me and one day the Lord told me, He said Isaiah Well done to them when they've done nothing. Why going to end up well done in hell but why would anything. Exactly, what have you done. We're not average American church and I always say this in not to but I'm like imagine, raise your hand if if you baptized someone, if you've discipled listing 10 basic things all disciples did, their hand one time. Absolutely. We've done none How? Because you prayed a prayer that's not in the you're a Christian by doing the work that Commandments. What were His Commandments? Go lay it like if you feel like it. No, He said go cast go out looking for it. Well Jesus told them to. These signs follow you. Yeah so I think that it's right now in the church period. If we think God here. The Holy Spirit never left. He was poured waiting for us to get off our lazy tails, excuse lazy boy of Sunday morning Christianity and we like me and we say, oh look at them, praise the you think you're gonna get in shape from Get on the field we have all these cheerleaders, the loudest booze come from the cheapest seats. So real. They don't ever do Deliverance. People me a video of you doing it. I've never had one guy it are the loudest critics. The ones that do most. So I think we just got to start doing it, about it. I'm so passionate about this man. I will Deliverance. I will never apologize. I'm like man of that strong delusion you're talking about last days people, of the faith are going to give and there is nothing more important right now we walk in that authority, it's not a methodology, name of Jesus. That's right and it works. these guys are partnering with us at Global Vision 'Come Out in Jesus Name', an actual movie we thought 500 and everybody said, oh yeah it'll all. Well guess what, God performs miracles and theaters, nationwide in which Deliverance is going out. I believe it's going to break out, all over telling you people gonna be shaking and the people be the same. It's going to be beautiful, this nation. It's going to have to be something that's be something that's messy because the American packaged and I used to be there, seven suits out. No one to stand, no one to sit, no one to He wrecks the whole place. He wrecks the whole in this particular episode here of on point and these guys are going to be preaching on tonight be beautiful but as we close, here's what I want those cameras right there and tell us where we can is and then right when he's done, Isaiah you look all your socials because I want people to follow to have you as friends. I'm honored to have you you and I've learned so much and if I've learned something else to learn. Yes. There's always Vlad where they can find you. So we have our Vladhungrygen and then YouTube is just Vladimir that website, you can pretty much get we have a a lot of e-courses and books on Deliverance, some other content and you can pretty much download all that is on the website. Our church is called read a book by Tommy Tenney called God Chasers our little group, a hungry generation. I didn't located in Tri-Cities, Washington so not Seattle Sunday mornings, Welcome anybody who is interested to Deliver. So Deliverance conference in November, do deliverances once a month for a specific, we take counseling, confession, last Sunday of we have a specific Deliverance service and then Last year we had it during Halloween but this so I see you're burning stuff on Halloween, we'll week after that so. Yeah, go ahead Isaiah. Yeah so Isaiahsaldivar.com I have YouTube, Instagram, Tik we're putting out videos, we have like 80 hours you can go check that out. If you need to get we have 2000 people on our network on our map we make no money off of it, it's just free, you cast out of you and go get our training and find Awesome. Awesome. Well make sure you get out there follow the Lord Jesus Christ. We love you guys. today and we'll see you real soon where we come