Translator: Vicky Lara Labaila It's been said if you never want (Laughter) Sex is one of the most contentious second only to finances. There are many married couples that have not had sex and that's OK as long as they are OK The problem arises when one person and the other doesn't. According to a national newspaper survey - mostly married men - 75% were satisfied in their relationship, but more than 50% We are having sex we are just having sex at the wrong time, I'll get to that later. (Laughter) We are having sex before we get married, so we are effectively and potentially, quite sexually bored And that has its consequences. Most brides today do not have sex and 50% of men would not had they known their marriage So, everybody wants to know just how much sex whether they are in heterosexual You all want to know what's going on (Laughter) Only about 7% of married couples Most married couples have sex a little bit more than once a week It decreases after that. So they have sex about 58 times a year. And 20% of marriages meet the criteria and that, defined by the experts, So why aren't we having sex There's a little-known conveniently called PEA or 'PEA, ' and it's responsible for the elation, that you feel when you meet somebody It's a fantastic feeling. This chemical is gorging You are so happy; that's But what happens after two years is that chemical diminishes That's just about the time you might get married and that is why communication There is another reason we are not having sex and that has to do I'd like to share a story about myself. When I was a teenager, my mother &quot;Maureen, please, tell me you have not allowed a boy She was feeling terrible And I was feeling horrifically guilty, that I'd French-kissed a number of boys (Laughter) by that stage. We teach girls and women that sex is dirty, We say, &quot;You're just going to get or, &quot;You may get pregnant!&quot; This whole fear-base thing and we never talk about pleasure And in fact, some women say, and that the journey is just as good I disagree. (Laughter) Of course. I am the one who French-kissed (Laughter) (Applause) It's like getting on a train and you are going to the most pleasurable You are so excited. You are getting lubed up with all This is amazing! And just before you reach he gets off, and you don't. (Laughter) You get my point. (Laughter) (Applause) The sex education that's entirely different. It's a global program, it's free, and it's known as internet pornography. Fantastic! And it does nothing to teach which is really important to men and boys, or how to make love to anybody. Also, we have a paucity of information for LGBTQI community, and we need to add to that. Marriage can rapidly go with the finances, the kids, I mean, you may have signed up but that was long before (Laughter) And... (Laughter) And how about that richer or poorer thing? Ladies, we are going to have Most women today are working We are doing the lion's share because according to research, And we are bridging the gap between growing children We are exhausted doing it all And when we are doing it, 10% of people check (Laughter) 35% immediately afterward. We are connected to the Internet (Laughter) (Cheers) (Applause) We are connected to the Internet Maybe this is the reason that the most common sex position No, no, no! It's not what you're thinking. Get your minds out of the gutter. This is the one where he is and she plays dead. (Laughter) I have a clinical practice where I see and there are two questions The first one is, It's obvious. When I ask women, - well, they never say yes - but they never say yes or no. They say, &quot;Sometimes,&quot; &quot;Sort of,&quot; &quot;I am not sure,&quot; &quot;He is&quot; (Laughter) or they say, &quot;I am married.&quot; I say, &quot;Well, that means no to me.&quot; They say, &quot;Yes, sure. Right. it is no.&quot; Most men complain The reason for this the sex education we provide to women. Women falsely believe that female sexual interest, desire, when in actuality, it is sexual activity that prompts Sexual arousal emerges So, you guys, I know, The most important question that I receive from you, is, &quot;How much masturbation (Laughter) So, I just say, &quot;Well, (Laughter) you should be fine.&quot; And then I realize that that's perhaps (Laughter) So, I know intimacy is important. You want to come home, if you are in a heterosexual relationship. So after a long you come home to a bit of chaos, perhaps, but you've just got sex on the mind, And you are like, Don't beat yourselves up about it; if not for the milk, we have Facebook, hormones, &quot;My stomach is sticking out, I am feeling &quot;Didn't we have sex last month?&quot; And you are like, (Laughter) You don't get it. But you're like, &quot;She is amazing, &quot;She does a great job She even has time for girls' nights out. So, I brought a friend home As we approached her house, drove up, she saw that the lights were on, &quot;Argh! Donny is waiting up for me. Drive around the block a few times (Laughter) until the light goes out.&quot; I said, &quot;Listen! You get in there before somebody else does.&quot; Because that is one thing when someone else wants her man. Still unconvinced, she said, &quot;I decided to extol that sex has for a woman: a youthful glow, better sleep, Keep driving,&quot; she said. (Laughter) There is a device that will increase and that happens to be (Laughter) and it comes in 64 colors. But if that doesn't do it, the desire to have a baby will rev up The problem is having that baby along with any marital eroticism because a lot of people believe motherhood and being sexual John followed me on Linkedln for two years to make an appointment He'd been married for seven years, and they had never Their parents were pressuring them because they wanted grandchildren. When they came into my clinical practice, the second question that I ask everybody most unfortunately, is, &quot;Have you ever experienced sexual abuse This was the first time that his wife had experienced at the hands of her best friend's father. She thought sex was dirty, she hated sex. We need a worldwide moratorium boys and girls, (Applause) Healing from sexual abuse Ella had lived a lifetime. A widow, she said she wasn't I thought, &quot;Fantastic! But she said, &quot;The problem, Maureen, is that these old guys I said, &quot;Well, Ella, you might have She said, &quot;What's younger (Laughter) &quot;70?&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Yes,&quot; some of you are saying. The hard truth is that men in their 30s and 40s Ella is going to have to go (Laughter) So you are all probably thinking, Why treat my erectile dysfunction?&quot; Well, I liken the penis to a plane. If the pilot can't get and keep the plane it's probably a problem with the engine. So if you can't get your penis up and keep it up there's likely a problem with your engine. Well, that's your heart. Erectile dysfunction and it may signify cardiovascular disease. It may also indicate diabetes. So, these two medical conditions, in addition to low testosterone, excessive alcohol consumption, all of those may contribute and you may end up in a sexless marriage. George presented to my clinical practice: at age 40, he decided to settle down. He was marrying a beautiful in a few months. There's only one problem: George was gay! (Laughter) George could not bear to tell because he felt it would have I said, &quot;George, you are going to end up He said, &quot;Tell me something I don't know!&quot; So, George said to me his plan was this, &quot;Well, when my parents die, and I'm going to marry I said, &quot;George, (Laughter) Sex is the barometer People who live in sexless marriages undesirable, unattractive, And loneliness has been shown elevate blood pressure, You are more likely to die from loneliness than you are from obesity When I educate women, and I say, &quot;If you are not having sex they get upset, and they say that I am blaming women when in actuality, You see? Men in sexless marriages cheat And women cheat And women cheat, too. We are just sneakier about it, (Laughter) Or socialize very differently. This is one thing we have on you, guys. (Laughter) Women cheat with other men, And technology has made cheating from the politician That quick swipe right can lead from texting to sexting, The more two people communicate online, the more likely But you can always blame your genes. The gene DRD4 And the sexless marriage's just It's based on a system The stakes are high, It is the perfect cocktail and the cycle begins again. Historically, marriage was But rather it was an institution in-laws, property, and physical labor. But at the turn egalitarian ideals and the emerging burdened marriages And now we are living forever. You get to have sex with the same person The second most common question is, &quot;When does sex end?&quot; A 44-year-old asked me; he said, I answered him this way, 'When does sex end, Maureen? 35?' I am here to tell you that sex never ends. If you are healthy, you can have (Cheers) (Applause) If you are healthy, you can have a great sex life Sex is good for you. Sex is healthy. Yet, sex is shrouded in shame. In the ancient aristocracies, the wealthy men had courtesans for pleasure In the way we are going, internet pornography, Technology is fast replacing So, how do you rev up Sex is about blood flow, it's exercise. Everyday, you want It increases your agility, your stamina. Women will experience when blood is flowing to the genitalia. It also helps to treat Also, get help for any of the sexual Vaginal dryness is an issue who are on the oral contraceptive pill, perimenopausal, postmenopausal, and there are treatments for you. Pay more attention to your spouse Spend more time in your bedrooms or your bedrooms (Laughter) Deal with your marital issues. Go to sleep in the same bed, and don't bring anything or anyone except for a great sex toy (Laughter) You must establish guidelines that govern those moments by someone's attractiveness But don't think for a second that you have to have sex for the rest of your life. That's not what I mean. In your mind, that is, fantasy is key. Your brain is your largest sex organ. And one more thing: I would like (Laughter) settle all marital arguments (Cheers) (Laughter) (Applause)