Process of CR-S car tires mass production. Nankang rubber tire. Add the materials into the mixing machine for blending. Rubber sheets. Fold the rubber sheets and let them cool. Inner liner making process. Place into the machine. Add other rubber materials for mixing. Bead wire making process. Coat the outer layer of wire with a layer of rubber. Apply a layer of rubber on the outside of the wire. Carcass ply. Tread making process. Press out the tread pattern by machine. Draw lines on the tread to mark the model. Sprinkle water for cooling. Place it on a mold template for cooling. Steel belt making process. Wrap a layer of rubber around the steel belt. Cut the steel belt. Assemble the various components of the tire to create a complete tire. Manufacture the outer layer of the tire. Steel belt. Attach the tread rubber. Place the bead wire on the machine and wait for assembly. Manufacture the inner layer of the tire. Inner liner. Attach 2 layers of carcass ply. Assemble inner layer, outer layer and bead wire of the tire to create a complete tire. Curing process. (Tire vulcanization.) The vulcanization process imparts characteristics to rubber such as high strength, high elasticity, high abrasion resistance, and corrosion resistance. Trim the tire's excess edges. Manual inspection. Inspection process (weight, thickness, and evenness). Mount the tire. Traction inspection. CR-S Car tires. Forged aluminium wheels mass production process. Superalloy Industrial. (SAI.) Recycled aluminium scraps. Shredding. Centrifugal Treating: separating impurities. Smelting. Machine scraping to remove surface impurities. Liquid aluminium. Recycled aluminium casting. Sawing to aluminium billet. Homogenizing: Long period at high temperature to achieve regular material structures. Ultrasonic test: inspecting the interior defections of the aluminium billet. Sectioning to aluminium ingot. Heating the aluminum ingots. Pre-forming: stamping the ingot into to aluminium blank. Rough / Fine forging: stamping and refining the shape of the wheel design. Flow forming: pressing whilst spinning to stretch the wheel rim. Punching: removing the excess material of the window sections of wheel front surface to reduce machining time. Heat Treatment: Long period of heating process to improve the material properties. Quenching: cooling in the water to strengthen the material. Automated Machining Station: lathing and milling the wheel surface. CNC Machining: milling to accurate wheel surface design. Surface Polishing: removing sharp edge and machining mark. Robot Grinding: deburring and removing machining mark. Manual Grinding: chamfering and removing finer machining mark. Painting Line- Automated Loading area. Placing masking fixtures to protect the center bore and bolt holes from the paint. Powder painting. Sending to the oven for baking. Infrared Heating: re-heating the wheels from conveyors for better adhesive of liquid paint. Liquid painting. Sending to the oven for baking. Quality inspection. Forged aluminium wheels. Process of uncoated cast iron pan mass production. Taku iron ware. Using a machine to press wax molds. Pouring the wax into the mold. Securing the wax mold with a jig. Wax repairing. Combining the pan mold and the base of the pan. Ultrasonically cleaning surface impurities. Applying a slurry coating. Placing it in specialized sand. Placing the mold on a rack to dry. After thorough drying, melting out the wax from the ceramic mold. Heating the ceramic mold up to 1000 degrees Celsius. Raw iron ore (non-recycled iron). Applying a slagging agent to remove impurities from the iron. Pouring the molten iron into the ceramic mold. Breaking the ceramic mold. Cutting off the base foot of the pan. Performing a appearance Polishing the bottom of the pan. Polishing the interior of the pan. Heat treatment. (Enhancing the bioavailability of iron released during the cooking process, making it more easily absorbed.) Shaping. Applying food-grade flaxseed oil to the interior of the frying pan. Applying raw lacquer to the exterior of the frying pan. Attaching the wooden handle. Long bluefin tuna knife manufacturing process. Artillery shell. Sanding. Put in fire. Forging. In order to avoid getting burned, the welding technique is used to extend the length. Repeated forging for shaping. Cutting out the shape of the blade edge. Adjusting the appearance. Forging the knife handle area. Cutting off the excess parts. Forging. Sanding the blade edge. Nailing on the markings and shop name. Try to assembling the knife handle. Heat treatment. Dipping into machine oil. Sanding. Water grinding. Long Bluefin Tuna Knife (Maguro Kiri). Thanks for watching! :)