Transcriber: Indah Ratnasari Songs are the soundtrack of our lives. From birthday parties, lullabies, our first love, our first heartbreak, our wedding song, our next wedding song. (Laughter) And ultimately, the song that's played Songs enhance the moment or the season. They help us dance. They make us cry. They make us run the extra mile. And they can even make us hate Songs help us remember our lives. They are a time capsule Imagine you're riding in your car in your perfectly happy marriage, when all of a sudden that song comes on. That song, you know. And as your partner is sweetly giving you Evaporated. (Laughter) Evaporated from your heated seat (Laughter) With the sunset lips coming in for a kiss. You have been transported by a song that was encoded It's not your fault. Songs are powerful. Have you ever thought about What's in those 3.5 minutes of We all listen to and turn to songs. I've had the privilege of and as a professor I help other artists write theirs. And there's tools we use as songwriters One of the tools we use is tone. That's something we all understand: Tone. Imagine you're sitting waiting to meet your doctor, wearing nothing but your underwear and your doctor comes in. Nobody wants to hear, "Hello, my name is Dr. Watson, We wanna hear, "Hello. My name is Dr. Watson, Because when his tone of voice goes up, And when his tone of voice goes down, you feel calm So tone of voice matters. The next time you go on a first date, you can either say, (Laughter) Or you can say, "I haven't been on a date in a while." (Applause) It matters. It matters. So think of melody How we say what we say is oftentimes As Western listeners, and we have an expectation So I'm going to play something, I want you to tell me (Piano sounds) (Audience singing) There it is. Exactly. (Laughing) So some notes feel stable, and some notes feel more unstable, And that's very powerful information The words we place on those notes make the listeners feel certain things. I'd like to take a moment (Laughter) I'm sure you've all heard her song In the verse and in the pre-chorus, she runs into her ex unexpectedly, And in the chorus, she says, Okay, you know the song. What if it-- "Never mind, I'll find someone like you." What happened? (Laughter) In my version, we believe her. We believe she will find someone like you. No problem. Because I have paired stable notes bringing a feeling of stability. But that's not the melody she sang. Those weren't the tones that she sang. This is her version. "Never mind, I'll find someone like you." (Sobbing) (Laughter) Do you feel the difference? So when she sang "never mind," she sang it on that the most stable note When she sang "find someone," she sang it on that note that you all wanted me to resolve "Find someone." And then she sings "You" on the bittersweet six-degree "You..." (Laughter) In her version, anyone like you. (Laughter) We know that to match the way she's feeling, Go, Adele. Another way that songwriters emotionalize Chords are just three to four notes Three. Four. And chords have a lot to say So, let's say I want to write a song And let's say that I feel amazing because they just came out with (Laughter) I would wanna make sure that felt as happy Today, I ate a Snickers bar. But what if -- What if I was despondent or, or -- Very upset about the fact that I'm eating the Snickers bar because It was his favorite candy bar, (Laughter) Today, I ate a Snickers bar. So chords -- Chords help us define Another tool that we use is repetition. Because repetition helps our listeners So again, I'm going to play something, I want you to raise your hand (Laughter) You are the world's greatest audience. You are the world's greatest audience. You are the world's greatest audi -- (Laughter) I'm hurt. No. (Laughter) Exactly, how did we all know that, right? Because in songwriting, You can't repeat the same melody Something's got to change Maybe I could've changed a chord. "You are the world's greatest audience." Or maybe the melody. "You are the world's greatest audience." So our brains love patterns, but our brains also love surprise. So I set up a pattern. And then I surprised you. And you were re-engaged. But too much repetition and zone out. Too much repetition is a sonic cliche, How many times have you said to your "Honey, pick up your towels." (Laughter) "Honey, pick up your towels." Like, after thousands of repetitions. Their brain has habituated (Laughter) And they don't hear you. They really don't. They really don't. So, try changing your melody in some way. Next time, go, (Laughter) Songs help us process emotion When we listen to songs we love, our brain releases When we listen to songs or hold music, bad hold music, our body releases So, try a little bit of this brain science Pick a song in the morning instead of the usual that blazes through your brain, Put on a song you love that primes your nervous system Or the next time you have instead of awkward silences put on a song you know they love, I like to start a song with a great title And then the use of the language. That's a mixture of concrete language, And then I use all of the musical elements As music helps us process I've had to adopt new nouns Words I never thought would belong to me, like, jowls. (Laughter) (Sigh) (Laughter) And most horrifyingly, crepe skin. (Laughter) So in order to process my rage, (Cheer and applause) All right. So here's a little bit. Crepe skin... Oh, I've got crepe skin. I'm just getting started. Haven't figured out the journey. Better than I've ever been, but now I've got a turkey neck. I'm wearing scarves like Diane Keaton. Turtleneck sweaters in the summer Crepe skin. (Applause) I know you don't relate, but -- (Laughter) Yes, I was able to laugh at -- I was able to laugh at the aging process And the delivery (Laughter) Over a year ago -- Many of you might know this. Over a year ago, I was diagnosed And I turned to music for my therapy. In fact, my song was Yes. (Cheer and applause) After a double mastectomy, Lizzo's lyrics I may not be the girl I was Bitch, I might be better." (Laughter) (Cheer and applause) And, and the chorus lyric, "I've got Okay. It's about damn time," became my fight song of optimism As there were days that I couldn't face and I would get a text message or a card in the mail, or a knock on the door And I was filled with love And that support and that love It really made me start to understand "You Are the Wind Beneath My Wings." Because I literally felt lifted that was surrounding me. Because I shared what I was going through, And their love held me One day, one of my favorite songwriters And I said, "It's gonna take everything And he texted back, "Well, it's a good thing But I'm a songwriter. So, that idea -- (Laughter) which he will get no credit for. (Laughing) I held on to that idea because I thought Those were ideas come to me from. And one day, my dear friend and artist "I'm ready to start processing And I told her about that idea, And of course, the first instinct (Piano sounds) that's where we sort of feel (Piano sounds) But I was feeling a lot more complicated I was feeling sadness, But it was all lined with because of all my amazing friends And so we decided to write it So, it was a blend of darkness and light We got the major we sort of got a little bit In psychology, there's a term And when we listen to songs that give name we can transmute and metabolize And I felt better and I'd like to dedicate it to anyone here (Piano sounds) (Piano sounds) The room in out of focus when I heard that diagnosis. Words I never thought I'd hear. I told my family then my friends as we all tried to pretend that nothing bad ever happened here. But then there were cards and calls I don't feel so alone anymore. It's gonna take everything I've got. Everything, to get me through. It's gonna take everything I've got. Everything I've got. Everything, to see me through. So it's a good thing that I've got everything. (Piano sounds) (Piano sounds) My head was spinning with my fragile faith But then family, friends and neighbors, the kindness of strangers. When I think that I can't do this, And it's going to take Everything I've got. Everything, to get me through. It's gonna take everything I've got. Everything I've got. Everything to see me through. So it's a good thing (Piano sounds) that I've got everything. (Piano sounds) 'Coz love... Love is a real thing. (Piano sounds) And love... Love is a real thing. And it's the only thing. And it's everything we've got. It's everything we've got. Everything to get us through. It's gonna take everything we've got. Everything we've got. Everything to get us through. So it's a good thing (Piano sounds) that we've got everything. (Piano sounds) (Piano sounds) (Applause) (Applause)