Deep in the forest of Mistwood, there's an elevator that goes down. And down. it finally hits the bottom, revealing a secret, It's one of those moments that makes The answer: pretty damn big. FromSoftware a lot of ground, but in Elden Ring, the The twisty, interconnected worlds of Dark Souls the monster open world of The Lands Between. the deepest depths to the highest mountain and So, what's it like to actually explore going open world change the Soulsborne formula? Well, I'm Mark Brown, and this is Let's start with a recap. Our goal at the beginning of the game is to the Leyndell Royal Capital. However, the front great runes - which we can collect by toppling So, the game begins in Limgrave pockmarked by ruins and underground caves. Up game's first &quot;legacy dungeon&quot; - aka &quot;a bit And at the end we can beat up Godrick Godrick's throne room backs on to Liurnia of The Academy of Raya Lucaria: legacy dungeon number and then we can lay the smackdown on Rennala, The Academy's rear leads to Bellum which is... not operational. We'll need One is back in Limgrave, in Fort Haight. And the other is in Limgrave's neighbouring blood red sky, poisonous swamps, and really. Plus, it's the stomping grounds of With the Dectus Medallion sellotaped back Altus Plateau - an autumnal highland with a golden However, before we head inside, we can swing a left and scale up Mt. Gelmir. Here Volcano Manor, and can wreck another We can now head back to the Plateau, all - the staggeringly massive Leyndell Royal So that's the layout of The Lands Between thus the Lakes, Altus Plateau, and Mt. Gelmir. All of our way through. And all of them bar the Altus Now unlike, say, Hyrule in Zelda: well, Skyrim, these areas don't all border they lead from one to the next, like so. to Mt. Gelmir without first trekking This dot-to-dot world layout is just one players navigate this world. To stop There's also the way NPCs suggest the way of the Lakes neatly frames Raya Lucaria certain sites of grace have a wispy golden FromSoftware's creative director Hidetaka Miyazaki felt stressed by the game's open design, and says that refusing to follow the guidance is Because, despite Elden Ring having more order this is definitely not a linear game. For one, you can often reach areas in an So, while Stormveil Castle quite naturally leads a semi-secret path that circumvents Caelid is on the border of Limgrave, time. Though, you might face some... And you don't actually need the Dectus Medallion through the ruin-strewn precipice that skips can get eaten by this one specific baddy in Raya NPC quests can also open up Radahn's festival is inaccessible of grace on the Altus Plateau. But doing Fia's quest lets us enter Leyndell without around outside. And doing a quest for Varre so we can fight a surprise fifth great All of this means that pretty much the Leyndell Royal Capital can be tackled legacy dungeons, and bosses in these zones Or, not at all, as the case may be. Getting to hold two Great Runes, out of a possible Rykard, and Mohg can each be skipped, as And so if we look at the achievements on Steam, we'll see that while 50% of Elden Ring only 43% lifted the great rune from Rykard But, I mean, this is a game with over 150 them to see the credits. You don't even need Then again, FromSoft has never worried too much well that it just makes it so much better And that certainly carries over Set out on your trusty spectral steed and crumbling ruins, mages' towers, dusty There are also mini dungeons, like Castle Oh, and there's even a pretty massive underground. Ainsel River below Liurnia, and if we kill sky and punch a hole through Limgrave's surface - And there's always something exciting that's some handy loot, an NPC quest, or something else to give you pause. You won't turtle with a building on its back, or only to be knocked out and woken up But, unlike most open world games, these catalogued for you. There are no towers to climb, no quest logs to Instead, you're left to explore by following your what's over the next hill. Like Breath of the Wild Elden Ring - you mainly explore by scanning the And so by trusting that the and being okay with the fact that huge amounts Elden Ring allows for a more organic style of You're actually investigating a world - not just So, the Soulsborne games have always had a lot always had optional bosses and non-compulsory they've always offered a sense of mystery and But in going open world, Elden Ring can that grand fantasy of going on an epic adventure. In fact, Miyazaki has said that dream game he's been trying to make since, well, Demon's Souls - &quot;the open world enriches this But, that being said... I think there are diminishes the Souls experience. Where the way you consume it - doesn't gel So, for starters... most of the Souls in how you approach them. At least when And so in those games, the player tends to level providing a pretty consistent level But an open world is a very different story. Each area in Elden Ring has a predetermined level enemies and bosses in each zone. Something you'll from Limgrave into Caelid and got bodied by And this static set-up can have some For one, this does ultimately Like, if we take those five key bosses. And drop - a pretty representative guide to their can indeed be fought in any order, the game Luckily, in practice, it's not too aren't so spiky as to make out-of-order progress you can absolutely - say - sneak scoop up a few handy items, and Plus, having some bits with ridiculously adventurous feeling. This makes the world And it provides a goal to come I mean, typically in a Souls game, if you again until you do it. &quot;Git gud scrub&quot;, Elden Ring you can pop a marker on your map and level up a few times, improve your get some more friends to summon, and then But... you might find that you've actually You can find yourself heading back to a find that you can now knock him out with This makes the world feel far less menacing, boss encounters, and it makes going Ultimately, Elden Ring puts the balance the game themselves. the perfect level to keep the game at a without ever telling you what level the enemies And, look - other games have found even if you do things out of order or come RPGs like Skyrim and Assassin's Creed use enemies beef up in tandem with your in Breath of the Wild, after you more powerful baddies will be dropped And in Hollow Knight, the first area - The into The Infected Crossroads, and is now filled And FromSoft itself has experimented in relation to the player's actions and of world tendency in Demon's Souls, the way your and how enemies can stop spawning in Dark Souls 2 In this instance, though, Elden Ring Soulsborne formula - despite completely Now, sure, you can certainly find ways that an open world - like the addition of having a dedicated jump button, and offering But when it comes to something as I reckon more could have been done The first time you discover a catacomb Here's an underground area with living and ghostly flowers. There's an imposing stone a lever to make it budge. Inside is some But then you'll find another catacomb. And Deathtouched Catacombs, Impaler's Catacombs. And Wild... while each one has its own gimmick This is another example of how Elden Ring suffers as a result of going open world - Elsewhere, there are multiple tunnels with miners each with a secret basement. Every Every church has a sacred tear. Every Plus, iconic, zone-specific enemies the game. Those bonkers walking bosses repeat. You might first fight in the Divine Tower of Caelid. But then he shows and again in a cave later in the game, and again Now, to be fair, it's not like previous copy-and-paste content. And Elden Ring has basically any other game of this scale. But this level of repetition of mystery and discovery - which Because as soon as you start to see the the artifice is shattered, and the game is archaeological find but a formulaic chunk of video Perhaps FromSoft simply bit off going back to our recap... well, the game of Leyndell. In fact, we're only about So, with Morgott dead we can take a and then it's up the Grand Lift of Rold This is... technically another open world zone, more constrained, and there's a lot less to of grace, the Mountaintops of the Giants simply because there are fewer catacombs, Okay, so there is one big thing to discover. on the Mountaintops, and the other's back secret stop: the Consecrated Snowfields. palace, and a hidden path to Miquella's and headquarters of Malenia, Blade So, it's cool that the game still this late game zone. But, beyond After toppling the Fire Giant, and setting I'm bad at following the stories in these games - Farum Azula. At the end of this, we can and we're back to Leyndell for a conveyer belt Godfrey, First Elden Lord; Radagon of the So Elden Ring's extremely freeform first half second half. There's less to explore, we're and we're back to just beating our head against Now it's only natural for an open game to pinch at the very end, or perhaps a mid-game moment instead, feels more like a funnel, where half the half is... well, it's just Dark Souls. Which When Miyazaki was asked why Elden he said that he wanted to give That giant world was essential to delivering and freely explore a complete secret dungeons, and towering mountains. And, in many ways - and especially at Ring absolutely delivers on Miyazaki's goal. You can see it in the way players get near Between. In the way only a tiny amount of is unique. And how From eschews typical open But there are other ways that going open world Static enemy levels don't work complete freedom to explore - and And that oversized ambition forced From every subsequent discovery feel less the end game ends up feeling Thanks very much for watching. If you're then check out this video for a the twisty world of Dark Souls