For a long time, if you went to the library one thing you weren't allowed to research. "We were refused. We were rejected by the librarian." "When I asked about or inquired about 1898 "I was told that yes they had something The story of Wilmington in 1898 still isn't "What happened here -- on what's now change racial politics in North Carolina. This is the story of an American election, but American history. The violent overthrow of a democratically In the late 1800s, Wilmington, North Carolina It had a majority black population, and historians describe it as a rarity in the post-Civil War American South. "Wilmington prior to November, 1898, was the 20th century." "There was an unusual degree of black prosperity." In Wilmington there were successful black black elected officials. And for a time, that was true throughout the Take a look at the politicians on this poster Here at the bottom -- are black Republican North Carolina also sent four black Republicans The Democratic and Republican parties of 1898 political spectrum than they do today. "Most African-Americans were voting for And the Democratic Party was white voters White supremacy was the central focus of the Republicans in North Carolina were successful &quot;Populist&quot; party, made up of mostly white North Carolina Populists joined up with Republicans And in the elections of 1894 and 1896, the victories statewide. That meant North Carolina now had a government politicians, including a newly elected Republican Together, they moved towards reforms that "This was something that the Democratic A multiracial government wasn't just a disappointment They needed a plan to take back control of So party leaders, like Furnifold Simmons, North Carolina Governor; and this man, Alfred To beat the Fusion Party by luring white Populist Wilmington, with a large black population be a focus of their campaign. The state Democratic state party handbook the white vote by stoking white anger and It said: "this is a white man's country Their most effective tool was the media. One of North Carolina's biggest newspapers It ran racist political cartoons throughout "Not everybody was literate in 1898. But to see a political cartoon of the type but you know exactly what it means." Many of the cartoons were centered on the the Fusion government was mostly white. They also played up another fear. "Black men threatening white women became White men need to do all that they can to This was all part of North Carolina democratic rhetoric of the time. In one speech that Democrats printed in a named Rebecca Felton said: "If it takes lynching a black man a day Her speech prompted a Wilmington black man Daily Record newspaper, to respond with He made a simple observation, that at the "That white women who had liaisons with Manly wrote "Every Negro lynched is called were sufficiently attractive for white "Manly pretty much said in a nutshell: sometimes Manly's editorial became another tool for Newspapers reprinted it, called it "A Horrid daily basis. It was just a few months before the election, "By the time the election rolls around on had been thoroughly intimidated here." By all accounts, the elections of 1898 were The Democratic party had a paramilitary group They attacked and blocked black residents At a rally just before the election, Alfred He said "negro office-holding ought at once, if we have to choke the current of the The votes were counted, and the Democrats "Democratic candidates won every seat they But some local Fusionist politicians remained been up for re-election like the white Republican And and of course the election did nothing in the city. The Democrats had won the election, but their out of reach. "And so they engineered what was essentially The day after the election, at a gathering unveiled a document they called the "White It contained an ultimatum. Cynthia Brown, whose descendants were in Wilmington where there's a preserved copy of the declaration "We will no longer be ruled and will never They would strip black men of voting rights. They would give "white men a large part And as for Alex Manly... "We demand that he leave this City forever The next morning, hundreds of white men marched to the offices of the Daily Record. Manly was gone -- he had fled to save his They set the Daily Record building on fire. This is where it once stood. "Once the White leadership destroyed Alex way in which the African-American community itself informed." At City Hall -- the mayor and board of aldermen "There's two hundred armed men in City Hall They didn't do it of their own free will and the Democratic Party was voted into office." Waddell -- who once threatened to fill the the new mayor of Wilmington. Meanwhile, the mob had grown to about 2,000 In these photos, exes mark where the first "The stories are that they were dumped into And there are varying stories about how many "To me, I see 40 to 60 clearly as fatalities But I think it was higher." Many black residents hid for days in the swamps, Cynthia's great grandmother. And thousands of other residents fled Wilmington, Shortly afterward, democrats printed booklets newspapers, depicted black residents as the "This image is a gross misrepresentation You know what you see are black men with guns The city never regained its black majority Jim Crow laws, like literacy tests and poll were immediately enacted and Wilmington's Black political representation in the state It would be 90 years until North Carolina "Wilmington did a really great job of covering "Over the years, the textbooks on North to accurately describe what happened in 1898. This book from 1933 calls what happened "unfortunate And this one from 1978 doesn't have that But they both praise Charles Aycock, one of 'a kind heart' and that in fact he was It's a legacy that North Carolina has yet The names of the perpetrators are on Wilmington's But the legacy is also bigger than those names. Turn on the news, and the state's long history "We turn to a strict new voter ID law in "Racially gerrymandering and a push for "The court says the Republican-led legislature lines, violating the Constitution." "There is a tremendous amount of intimidation "It doesn't have to be mass mayhem and violence "The strategy shifts towards designing state blacks from voter participation." "The subliminal pursuit of continuing "And if you don't see it for what it really