every year the Ballon d'Or decides but today it'll be decided by Football Imperialism I've invited all 20 Ballon d'Or but this isn't a vacation! when they arrived I secretly cloned them all because I believe the best player in the so now there's 11 Lamine Yamals 11 Bellinghams and even 11 Messi's and first up will be... Bukayo Saka and the direction he will go is... NORTH which means he's taking on the Barcelona star boy match one is underway and I expect I don't think Lamine Yamal is very good in net the chemistry on both of these give away by Bukayo Saka a chance Lamine Yamal... takes it and how has he pulled that out? wait why is the keeper taking the corners? why does this always happen?! let's see if this strategy gonna play it short... Lamine Yamal walks in Lamine Yamal to Lamine Yamal walks in! and it's 1-0 for Lamine Yamal! great finish, no chance 28th minute can we see a second goal here? Lamine Yamal to Lamine Yamal and it's 2-0! with the weak foot this one's 48 minutes played and Saka has yet maybe this is the chance... down the right wing... plays this should be it! what a save Lamine Yamal - but and he grabs it out of the air he can do it all and before Saka could get another taste of gold and then got his fourth goal in the 75th what a debut match for Lamine Yamal he but Bukayo Saka has been wiped off the map who is up next wheel Rodri and the direction he will go is... WEST looks like he's paying Florian Wirtz a visit Rodri the Premier League and Euro 2024 winner Florian Wirtz is 17th out of Wirtz with a chance early on here Florian Wirtz - the Bundesliga player one of the favourites to how will the Rodri's respond? this is a very long match and anything but it's not looking good... there's no way they make it 2-0 looking for Florian Wirtz, he takes it himself across, and it's 2-0! what in the world am I seeing? the captain putting himself on his own back I won't lie Rodri was my favourite I am in disbelief wait can he get one back - he does grab the ball, it's not over 28th minute, it's 2-1 the manager is happy the next goal is so important Wirtz and he puts it away - this Rodri goalkeeper is so bad :( is that technically a hattrick, I guess? right? a goal just before halftime it's a hand ball! Wirtz hand-balls a chance to make it 3-2 that's not getting called in the Prem, no way why do the goalkeepers always take he's let in some really bad goals what a penalty it is 3-2! the second half will be dramatic great ball possession outside the Wirtz takes it from distance it's is this the chance... Rodri to Rodri... back to Rodri! crosses it! and it's cleared - that may and there's the final whistle! one of the favourites of the Ballon d'Or Wirtz moves on to the next round the managers shake hands but only one will be happy who will play in round three... Lionel Messi which way will he go though... EAST Messi will have to take on Dani Carvajal this may be the shortest match but it's going to be a good battle counterattack for Lionel Messi here can he take advantage of this? Messi, takes it himself passes it to Messi! and it's 1-0 for Lionel Messi I thought he might have screwed what a goal my only worry is that any shot will probably go in so he Carvajal with the chance but it's Messi coming up and he loses it never mind and a chance here for Carvajal to equalize... it's blocked but there's a hand ball Lionel Messi - keep your hands away from the ball goalkeeper versus goalkeeper Messi doesn't even know what he's doing in the net if he saves this it'll be a miracle he doesn't what was that? it's all level once again it's still possible for Messi to win this what was that shot - but he gets the rebound! that may have been the weakest shot I have seen but he does have the lead two weak foot goals, what a Carvajal putting on some pressure to and he might get it here! and he does , my goodness and things got even uglier for Messi things just got a little messy to equalize! there's no way he doesn't score of course he scores it's Lionel just a few minutes left before the Lionel Messi to Lionel Messi... to Lionel Messi and back to Lione - and they lose it 90 minutes is up no winner was found and because I make the rules this is I'm tired of watching these guys play Carvajal, the goalkeeper to set the tone and he puts it away right down the middle Messi why did you dive? Lionel Messi this time puts is that what everyone's going to do? I don't think anyone's going Carvajal can he get a miss here... oh it's a save by Lionel Messi! Messi... with the chance to eliminate imagine the scenes, just stay in the middle WHY DID YOU MOVE?! okay but Messi can still win, it if he just scores we cannot let a real Madrid and he puts it away Lionel Messi moves on he is looking for that ninth Ballon d'Or Carvajal I'm sorry, enjoy your Euro there are way too many Real Madrid players it's Kylian Mbappe which way is he going... NORTH this is a true test for Kylian Mbappe because Camavinga is known to be good Kylian Mbappe with a chance here early on it's 1-0 even Camavinga can't save Mbappe's shot what a start for the Frenchman looks like Camavinga is the keeper is playing striker! a chance here for Camavinga, sweats it across he doesn't! Camavinga! Camavinga was open! the Mbappe's have been defending well can they keep it up here no way, Camavinga from distance I would sub him out if I was Camavinga and right on queue, he actually did take him out last 10 minutes of this match Mbappe pushing for that second now it's a counterattack, one final seconds remaining in this match this looks very good Camavinga's offside can he find an what is this defending?! and it's 1-1 my goodness that may be the look at them celebrating there's so many of them! well looks like this one will also we're in round five, no one has missed just yet Mbappe has been putting on a great great pen Camavinga, the captain now that - he could have saved that I could have saved that YOU COULD HAVE SAVED THAT! like are we really going to see we won't round eight Camavinga steps up and there's the first save! Mbappe with the chance to eliminate Camavinga his French teammate and Real Madrid teammate and move one step closer to his first Ballon d'Or and he puts it away, with conviction! round five we'll see... Erling Haaland go in the direction... WEST looks like he's paying CR7 a visit I feel like Cristiano Ronaldo he is much more determined he will do whatever it takes now this looks good from Ronaldo, he and then he loses it I can't believe my eyes ,we have not seen no one even took a shot on target! we're in the last 20 minutes here this is the chance! and it's 1-0 for Erling Haaland! Ronaldo can't believe his eyes! the Ballon d'or slipping out of his hands no keeper in the world is saving that one Haaland just needs to hold and he will go to the next round but remember anything is possible what in the world has Ronaldo done? that was the worst giveaway ever we're in stoppage time now, no way they're going to he gets the ball, but time has run out! Ronaldo has been eliminated from the island Haaland moves on to the next round Ronaldo fans I'm sorry which Ballon d'Or contender will we see next... Harry Kane which way is he going NORTH he's taking on his fellow Englishman, Declan Rice can they make something of this... he's got some space, Declan Rice! it's 1-0! the Kane's can't believe their eyes in the 41st minute, Declan Rice number Rice... with a chance here options in the middle... can he double it - he does! Kane gets a hand on it but it's not enough 2-0 in the 61st minute where is he running, where are you going?! no way he's celebrating in front of Rice likes what he's seeing there's a third goal about to happen here... he sweats it across, Camavinga take notes! it's 3-0 for Declan Rice! the Bayern Munich striker would get one back in Kane I expected better from you but instead you are eliminated in your first match have a safe flight home who is the next lucky attacker... it's Lautaro Martinez which way will the Inter striker go... SOUTHEAST which means he's taking on the Antonio Rudiger and yes Rudiger is back at Chelsea because Kylian now we have seen a centreback win but can Rudiger follow in his footsteps what was that pass I don't what a run, from Antonio Rudiger here options in the middle takes it himself! what a goal! take a bow - damn let him go! absolutely cooked Martinez this may be Lautaro's one and he gives it away Rudiger... looking to double his lead and he loses it but the final whistle saves him, Rudiger moves on will he be able to follow the steps of Virgil we shall see, but for now Martinez is going home let's hope we get get some more it's Vini Jr. up next but which way is he going... EAST which means Mbappe will have to defend his land a goal here would not surprise me Mbappe walks in, but it's great defending that actually did surprise me now it's a counterattack for Vini Jr. anything can be a goal it's 1-0 and yes Vini Jr. is in a Norwich kit it's because it looks like the Brazilian to be honest as a Barca fan I wish both of these guys could get and it looks like it's going to be Vini Jr. okay it looks like Mbappe has he still has it, down the line he dribbles passes it to himself... and it's 1-1! I can't believe the Vini's and what is that celebration, one more chance for Vini Jr. to take they're going to let him walk Mbappe's - learn from your mistakes! it's 2-1 okay it looks like Mbappe is getting desperate the goalkeeper is playing in but now a chance to equalize and he does what a strike, a travela - from almost and he celebrates with the goalkeeper some of these tactics I'll never understand but then again, Mbappe is his own manager options in the middle but he doesn't pass it why, didn't you pass it but it's an empty net! and - wait no it's a pen wait what happened did it go out of bounds?! what is the call ref?! it's it's a free kick I guess we're approaching the last a chance to take the lead 85th minute Vini Jr. and he puts it away Mbappe - you have a lot of work Vini Jr. with the lead here Mbappe one final push to this scenes if he can do it... Mbappe... beats his defender! and it equalizes! is it's 3-3 in the 92nd minute! this one, is going to be Mbappe steps up first... panenka! cheeky boy! Vini Jr. puts it away as well now Mbappe already has won a penalty shootout what in the world was that pen, that was amazing Vini Jr. steps up and it's a save! to extend the lead oh these are the greatest a chance now for Mbappe to save this can he do it can you eliminate he was close but it's not over just to continue on in this competition it's over he didn't have a chance! Mbappe moves on another penalty shootout win there is so many of them oh my days still so many players we haven't seen well which way does he go NORTH teammates, now Rivals it's Wirtz's confidence from his win in but twice in the first half Granit Xhaka brought it back to but he eventually ran out of is Wirtz the dark horse of this tournament? can he go all the way and win the Ballon d'Or? we shall see, but who is up next wheel... Emi Martinez up next, the only but which way will the Argentine go? EAST he's playing against Messi in his first match! he's definitely going to let Messi win Messi quickly took advantage of the skill gap and scored the quickest goal and then he scored another and another and another Emi Martinez didn't stand a chance but I guess Messi started feeling bad it is so weird to see Emi Martinez half of the players have already been will we see them this round... we will Jude Bellingham is up next it's either Lamine Yamal or Lamine Yamal this is basically the El Classico of the can he take the lead already? oh my days, he's actually the future of Barcelona I really doubt that will be but let's see what Bellingham can do what in the world was Yamal doing! he is clearly not a goalkeeper stay in your net brother! 80th minute, and it falls right back to him! it's 2-1 for Lamine Yamal in the 81st minute I won't say it's the winner just yet but this looks good for Lamine Yamal will that goal be enough to oh the pressures on... it looks like the equalizer but it's a great tackle! Lamine Yamal with a defensive and he's looking to get his third here cuts it back to Lamine Yamal to Lamine Yamal! it's 3-1! this one's over! Jude and Lamine Yamal extends his run, it's time for round 12 and Declan Rice once again which way is he going... NORTHEAST I don't think Rudiger is going let's see if he can get a but the fans wouldn't have anything what a strike by Rudiger! it's 1-0 in the 78th minute where is he running... oh he went to celebrate with himself that is self-love right there I thought we weren't going to see a goal after having two defensive minded but there it is a 99 power strike beautiful one final chance to equalize and he walks in but he loses it out, is there a corner? there isn't time has run out - Rudiger moves on one step closer to having a and Declan Rice... while he's headed home enjoy your flight! who is up next wheel... Toni Kroos which way will he go? EAST which means we finally get to see the final Phil Foden vs. Toni Kroos I expect a lot of goals in this match the last one was a snoozefest this might be the chance for Toni Kroos though look at the burst of pace for the retired player his final competition and it's a great save by Foden! I can't believe he's kept that out and the goalie is taking the corner I guess, I guess this is okay it's the 46th minute let's see if this works out for them he is taller he should win the corner here oh and he does! it's 1-0 for Toni Kroos assisted Kroos pushing for a second here in the second half if he gets it it'll crush Foden's dreams WOAH - WHAT A GOAL! and what was what is the goalkeeper that doesn't take away with he flicked it around Phil Foden! spectacular - give me 14 of 'em no way he makes it three here Kroos to Kroos it's - oh it's a save! this Phil too bad it's 2-0 Foden needs to hurry if he but it's not looking too good Kroos to make it three and put this match away... and he does oh Phil Foden, enjoy your trip home it's over no Ballon d'Or for you it's getting intense, seven it's Wirtz up next it's either Haaland or Rudiger it's going to be be Haaland and just 15 minutes into the match now I wouldn't count Wirtz out just yet he did take out Rodri, one of the and Erling Haaland's teammate at Manchester City I feel like he can get a goal here Wirtz takes on his man... puts this is it, this is going to be the equalizer Wirtz... takes the shot and it goes in near post! horrible goalkeeping from Erling Haaland to be honest a bronze options in the middle... to Haaland... blocked, he still has it great defending from Wirtz that gives him a chance to take the lead himself one final chance for Wirtz they let him walk in! right at that full time whistle Wirtz wins it Erling Haaland, oh my days, you what a performance from Florian Wirtz look what it means to the manager! which superstar is up next... it's Toni Kroos once again and it's either Mbappe or Messi it's going to be Mbappe and it didn't take long for the action to start a quick start for Mbappe here... that is the quickest goal in this and of course it's Kylian Mbappe to double his lead he has the what in the world am I seeing?! this guy's confidence is through the roof and where is he going to celebrate... he's going oh my days, the arrogance! if there's a favourite to win the Ballon Mbappe is dominating this match and now a chance for a third goal here Mbappe, oh look at the heel flicks he's just getting - no way no way what a goal the chemistry... is beautiful that is an unselfish player right there or is it selfish cause he just but it's 3-0 he just walked through like there is no doubt in my mind but after that fourth goal and he remembered that this and he scored not once not twice... but three times to try and force a come back but unfortunately he ran out of time and of the worst choke in imperialism history I don't even think he's the let's see who's up next... five players remain on the wheel but it's Lamine Yamal up next and again it's going to be an El but which one is it... it's Rudiger I'm usually not superstitious but Yamal he is in white, I wonder if this I don't understand how we had so many penalty shootouts at the beginning will this be the one? this looks good from Lamine Yamal but he is up against a real centreback and he runs out of space Lamine Yamal to Lamine Yamal to Lamine Yamal he takes on Rudiger and he puts it wide! so close I can't believe it but this match has ended 0-0 we are going to our first Rudiger vs. Lamine Yamal the goalkeeper start as usual Rudiger puts it away Lamine Yamal once again no it's a save by Rudiger! come on you got to save this uh-oh Lamine Yamal must score or else he's eliminated puts it away! now all the pressure on the goalkeeper can this 17-year-old save a penalty I don't think so, I think it's over they actually saved it! it's not over just yet, he you got to score, there's no way you're missing you'll win the Ballon d'Or what was that, oh my goodness Rudiger - as a goalkeeper saves it four players remain and Lionel Messi up next which way is he going... NORTHEAST Wirtz vs .Lionel Messi the underdog vs. the player who has the now a chance in the 15th minute for Lionel Messi dribbles past one, two and it's 1-0 he makes it look so easy! on the weak foot as well BS is having trouble against Lionel Messi he's looking for a second, but it's a save by Wirtz now a chance the other way Florian what a ball! what a goal! it's not over just yet! not even the cameraman knew where that was going a perfect volley at the far post Lionel Messi to take back his lead - and he does this guy's shot is actually incredible Messi pushing for a third here... a two goal cushion would be very nice I thought he scored that would have been beautiful Wirtz the equalizer... is coming and it arrives! it's all level once again Messi pushing for the lead once again, takes he takes the header but it's from distance finesse - Wirtz! is he a goalkeeper? what in the world is this performance? if this goes to a penalty shootout one final chance... but he gives it away this one is wait? oh yeah never mind this is Messi must score, or else he's eliminated it's a save by Wirtz! Lionel Messi eliminated by a penalty shootout! and incredible goalkeeping performance he is one step closer to which of these three players will it's going to be Rudiger but which way will he go SOUTHEAST but with how the land has been split up Florian Wirtz will have to play against Kylian Mbappe who is one match away from it's been all Wirtz in these first 10 minutes and it's 1-0! it didn't take long for Wirtz to take the lead! the dark horse looking like this first half from Wirtz has been can he double his lead he can'tm but what a performance Rudiger didn't even have a chance at goal Rudiger looking to equalize takes the shot but it's Wirtz needs to hold on just one final chance for Rudiger in stoppage time press him! great tackle! Wirtz is headed to the final to play both of these players desperate to but which one will it be... will it be the new Real Madrid signing? or the player from the Florian Wirtz as Wirtz has the bigger piece of land good luck gentlemen but only one can be the new Ballon d'Or winner! we are less than 90 minutes away to finding and it's Mbappe with a great start here can he find himself in the box? he does oh my days, no way it's already 1-0 what is wrong with this guy? he's so good! Wirtz, you got a lot of work to do Mbappe not sitting back, he has options in the middle... takes on Wirtz but loses it now can they make something of this RUN! he's going to lose it four on three make it count! all alone! and it's all level once again! he's he's going to celly, you we got to remember Mbappe had a 4-0 I'm expecting a lot of goals here Wirtz with a chance to here again all alone in the middle! can he take advantage? no it's and now he's on the counterattack I have a feeling this might be cuts it back and it's 2-1 that didn't take long Wirtz... with a chance here to equalize great tackle but he still has it dribbles past one and it's 2-2 I have no idea who's going to win this one! he's waiting in the middle... can he find someone, takes it himself! and Wirtz has his first lead of the match! if it ends like this Florian Wirtz Kylian Mbappe pushing for an equalizer and he gets it! how many goals are we going to see in this match? it's anyone's match once again every possession can lead to a he's through one defender to beat he passes it off... takes the long shot and it goes in my goodness Wirtz had no chance! the lead the Ballond'Or just 30 minutes away I can't believe the amount this is good movement Wirtz... makes the run with some space takes the shot and it goes in! these goalkeepers are having a disaster class we are up to 8 goals already and options waiting for him in the middle beats one defender, puts it across takes the shot and it's an own goal? Wirtz... my brother WHAT WAS THAT? a hero in one match... and now an redemption is still possible Wirtz... pushing for that he's got himself in the box he walks in... takes the shot but it's blocked! Mbappe picks it up, that might have been no mistake now from Mbappe and he he's walking in... takes the and there it is that will clinch it! Real Madrid's Kylian Mbappe I hope you guys enjoyed this video, and if you did SUBSCRIBE I'll see you guys soon PEACE:) and if you want to watch another video click this one in the middle of the screen, and so do I