It's a $300 million Scott called me up and said, I think it's gonna be great. And I read it, and I went, Yeah. I want to be a part of it. LUCIUS: Rome has taken [SHOUTS] But I will have my vengeance. HOST: This is your first I know you're a huge fan. Does he have a tell or when he's unsatisfied and you have to do it again? He's totally transparent. What you see with Or like if you ask for another take or happy with it, he'll be like, So it's all-- there's no games with Ridley, that I just love You know exactly where to minute, moment to moment. Yeah. He had twelve-- anywhere between cameras all over the place, with his satisfaction. I'm busy with so I wasn't really watching I've said this before: the is when you're on the ground. If you don't trust He's a pilot I I'll go anywhere If he's really into That's [BLEEP] cinema! But he uses that And then, what else did he say? Works like gangbusters! You do it like You get that sometimes. That's when you're kind of-- you've done something-- You wanna go again? And if you say yes, Why It's perfect! Yeah. At the end of our first day, working at the same time. And we had a couple of kind of scene in the royal box. And I asked him-- I'd like to talk to on his god mic, like And I was like, Well, why don't and you can move the other six. And you can get and then we can give And he went, Are So, it was clear from the off and we just had to trust him. I love that you got to and he's like, No, we're ready. We're ready. He's watching all of the If he's got it, And I think we'll never always fight for another take. But sometimes, it's But knowing that's a part of where you prepare that you do in life, have multiple shots at things. You know? You really know that there's a and to that moment. And it felt like every And if you want to be seen you got to reckon with So, I think there's an that definitely became a and I also think it's a part It lines everything and the sense of, yeah, that you get this once, maybe So, what are you Which is a thrilling Yeah. This is war! Real war! Ridley had cast you from Normal People. Did he mention a I just still revel in the watching Normal People [LAUGHS] No, he kind of said-- like, it's, I think, the best especially if they have big or small, that, like, your that has preceded you. And that's why I think it's where possible, to with the roles that ultimately, that's what Yeah. And look on IMDb for that, too. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. I feel like I would HOST: And you mentioned to you before filming, and said, &quot;Your nerves Yeah. HOST: That was fantastic. Can you just bring me and, like, how it informed moving forward? It was the most because what it that it's totally to do with-- because nerves are useful, It's your own-- or, like, personal fears. And what he's saying is than your own anxiety, to be making this together. So, like, let's Was there a day on set and were, like, First day. The first day. You walk in, cameras are Ridley has just and told you that your nerves There's camels. There's fire. There's 600, 700 extras. And it's, Go! It's crazy. It's absolutely crazy. Is there anything to, like, zone in that moment? My nerves are no No, you just kind there's some sort of calm that with the camera turning over kind of goes quiet, I think. You have something in you. I knew it from the start. Did you now? HOST: You talked about in one of the featurettes. I got my ass kicked. HOST: Which I thought were shooting this film. I really did, and No, no. I mean, I really I get a lot of-- I get a lot of wips in there. But boy oh boy. You were being hamstrung Yes, exactly. Exactly. All for you. Love hurts. It does hurt. Was there a you were like, Oh, my gosh. I don't know if I Well, yeah. HOST: Which one? - That day was pretty hard. That day was pretty hard. The, basically, the last I was fighting Paul, that Ridley will shoot-- The whole sequence. --the whole sequence which is incredibly thrilling, I guess there's a sequence and then I get to Paul-- Paul gets to me. And we did it start to finish, I was just destroyed It was also so hot. At that time, it was, And-- But I was, like, howlingly I was like [MOANS]. And Paul had some rage Working it out on me. Absolutely. I love that so much. There's a behind-the-scenes of you saying, &quot;I hate you.&quot; [LAUGHTER] They put that on there? HOST: They did. Yeah, they had it there. It's there. I hate all of you. I may never speak How dare you. That move in the end HOST: So good. Real life drama. HOST: I love it so much. There are victories Rome has so many subjects. She must feed them. They can eat war. HOST: Your characters, They're a bit eccentric. How much of that is and how much of those do you bring to them? I think Ridley kind When he casts them in the he kind of expects you to And I think that were there originally, a few ideas that we of, yeah, pepper in there. But I think then the moments between the lines And that's what we were trying HOST: Fred, you had like an old vaudevillian preparing with one another. I'd love to get your and I would love to hear you guys solidified that bond. It's so rare that you get to becomes a very integral who these people are. And it's even rarer it with such an amazing person And so, I did feel an immediate and I feel like we just got close and really feel them. I think you have your to learn who they are especially because their And so, there's a lot to the other. They're kind of constantly one against the other. It's like a forever mirror. JOSEPH QUINN: It seemed to in to the madness of it and those kind of deranged kind kind of more make you look like a lunatic. Not to say that but it was a treat down that kind of path at times with friends. Yeah. The gods have spoken! HOST: Of course, you How has Ridley's in the past two decades? You know, in the first where we actors could of our discussions that we definitely needed and he had to so because they took all to get changed and the Now, there is no time is so quick and so speedy. And he has incredible that he has built that is unlike any other thing And I've worked on big movies. This is the biggest ever, and And all of this technology has I line up in the morning in so he cannot get away from me. It's true. It's true. And then I wait there, OK, so these are my ideas. Because I know that is my time. After that, you're and you're working And you are like, scene and you've got two, if there's an Yeah, you're right. The animal gets the take. So then, you're behind her - Yes. I didn't have to stand all my bidding through Connie. [LAUGHING]