Let me read you this of February 14th, 1883. &quot;A heavy and altogether &quot;has befallen musicians of every race, &quot;We learn by telegraph from Venice&quot; &quot;that the greatest &quot;Richard Wagner,&quot; &quot;the second husband of Cosima Liszt,&quot; &quot;died there at 4:00 &quot;He occupied a loftier station&quot; &quot;than King or Kaiser, Pope or President.&quot; &quot;No monarch was ever more &quot;than has been Richard Wagner.&quot; &quot;Infallibility, &quot;has never been &quot;by the most orthodox Catholic&quot; &quot;than it has been in the person Put well, do you not think? Put well. It goes on. Time and space fail us, to the literary labors were in great part occupied. A free thinker in matters religious, and of a surpassingly Wagner could scarcely fail in the revolutionary agitations where he held Minor? In light of Wagner's future, perhaps, but Kapellmeister was a post! To those of us here in Dresden, Irksome to have to visit a song in one's pocket, to have to make music one's political soul cried out against, but that was the condition of Germany Insignificant city-states. It was... a post. Luttichau. Majesty? Who's responsible for this noise? Reissiger conducted the piece, and it was put together by Herr Wagner, Wagner? Wagner. The piece is very well conducted. Herr who? Herr who? Reissiger. I lay myself at your feet, Majesty. This piece does have within it Very well composed, Herr Wagner. Very well arse-licked, Herr Reissiger. Do you think so, Majesty? I did do my best. Then I do dash myself under your feet. It's different every time he relates it. We were not late. As if I'd allow him to be. There sat I, paws up, tail wagging, waiting for a pat on the head begging to have gold put into my mouth rather than into the mouth and tooth of His Majesty, It is the path In the event, I said thank you but so moved my army in its retreat, my Grande Armee of ill-disciplined so moved them, cajoled, the whole maneuver so steadily executed, that Reissiger never even knew we had left The last notes falling on an echoing dream on the royal ulcerated tooth and ear. It wasn't wasted, though. There's something to being German We can take a song like and set it to music in such a manner Still, when we look about us and see, a hotchpotch of 34 kingdoms we are unmoved. Our eyes remain dry, and our hearts Why? Are we little people with minuscule minds, mere servants, I say to them, our rulers, &quot;Cast your titles We too, the common people, have ancestors, and though they had no titles, Their deeds of daring, are writ, reeking in letters of blood! Their blood, our blood banner! Two camps have arisen in Europe. The cry from one is Republic. The cry from the tents Monarchy. What do you see? You see a blinded and corrupt tribe. The rulers of Hesse, Bavaria, and Prussia! I agree! What then of our own King? I, his Kapellmeister, &quot;Become a prince who heeds our advice.&quot; &quot;Banish the sniveling Junkers &quot;Consult instead the free folk, &quot;those noblest of children&quot; &quot;like unto gods.&quot; &quot;Not servants in livery or slaves &quot;but elected and free.&quot; Every man with a vote. Our minds are strengthened the myths and legends, Let him, our King, let him say, Let him rid himself of his sycophants, As Christ says, &quot;If thy right hand offend thee, Cut it off! Cut it off! Your fatherland is called Germany. Love it above all, and more through action Germany must have its place in the sun! I've read your husband's latest scheme -Lohengrin. How wonderful! A Swan Knight! I can see all the little elves Unfortunately, we can't give it. These unsettled times. Your husband writes Makes speeches he ought not to make. The King himself from challenging your husband to a duel. Lohengrin is stirring If only Herr Wagner were not determined Meser, why do you remove all the copies Is my work not fit for your shop? What do you replace them with? Meyerbeer! -Rockel, we used to admire this man. Meyerbeer is a master That's because you're not his publisher. Am I, though? What are you, then? This returned This is monstrous! -They haven't broken the seal to read it. You aren't being given, Herr Wagner. That you aren't. However, Meyerbeer is, which is a fact. Hence, he can go out Rienzi? Outside Dresden, where? Performed once only in Berlin. -Yes, and? Konigsberg. Where? It's successful every time So is Tannhauser, Damn you, Meser. I'm of a mind Then I would remind you I'll not go forward with Lohengrin Then you will lose Are we not all revolutionaries No, we aren't, Herr Rockel. We are not. We aren't. You sport with known revolutionaries. You have ideas above your station as to unions for musicians and a total turnout which you put forward in writing, direct to the King! Direct in writing. A King you would've murdered in his bed. This time we live in No time at all. A word to the wise. Hear me. Herr Director Luttichau has intimated to me for your arrogance and your scorn such as Meyerbeer's genius. All of which Get rid of this anarchy and all. Then there'll be time for an opera, an operetta. There are going to be new theaters All who come between Germans and their art will be swept away Will they, though? I'm considering Barbarossa Germany looks for another Barbarossa. Barbarossa, like Lohengrin, Not at all. It's not light enough. No laughs in it. What's more, in that it involves Shall you not do duty I shall not. I have resigned. Why? I suffer from a double hernia. Should you not go to Dr. Pusinelli? It was Anton Pusinelli who recommended Why? So that I need not do duty Why? Who can tell which side they'll fight on? I don't understand, forgive me, Richard. In Paris, In Hungary, it's about the oppressed but who in turn will be dominated In Saxony, here in Dresden, in the form of an assembly in Frankfurt, which purports to be an assembly which should have power but hasn't any. We are still half in Austria It's about the Parliament, There isn't a Germany yet. Until there is a Germany I'm not going to have an audience. Damn it. People like me, people with minds, free minds, are always going to be subservient To the court. To a court theater of forests and trees to the King. He and Frau Luttichau Kindness, I don't want kindness. I have ideas for plays What happens to them? What about my report Three months to prepare, My ideas What about that? Not taken seriously. If there isn't a Germany, Liszt is going to give -Yes, Liszt. -He also knows how to... Tug his very beautiful forelock Whenever you tug any part of him, I know, the only one. -Oh, please, Richard! This isn't a time for pleading. How can one talk I'm a better Christian than them, Luttichau... so pure he abstracts himself Talk to him about an art that embraces I know what it is I'm brooding on. I have told you. A grand, heroic... For lack of a better word, opera. Yes. Siegfried's Death. Fire, water. Destruction, and out of the cleansing, a hero, a German... hero. Christ, Barbarossa, Siegfried. The same person. -You know nobody will be able to stage it. You mock me for my seriousness, but if one is not serious about work, There is a stage out there. You'd have me a journeyman on call, paid to toss off a little tune, to whatever hack drama A pluck of strings, a rumble of drums to signify that depth of feeling -That is my job as Kapellmeister! You're afraid. Yes, I am. I was a journeyman once. Magdeburg, scenery, everything. You emptied the hall of everyone with your Battle of Vitoria. The triumph... of noise. Scored for bugle, drum, and firecracker. Such a battle has seldom been more you, Minna, didn't even stay. I hate noise and bangs. Oh, God. It has begun. Come on, up here, more! Up here, as much as you can, come on! Very good. Come on, we haven't got much time! More, more, that's the way. Very good. Come on, plenty over here! As high as you can! Come on. Very good! Yes, that's good, come on. Uncle, what is it? -Uncle, is it fighting? Ottilie and Clara, you're at the start of a revolution led by artists Intellect against indulgence. Get me some food, Minna. I'll be gone Revolution. Revolution at last! After all these years, Kapellmeister to the King of Saxony, Open the door! -Open the door! I shall not, not at all! No. -No, Richard. Richard. They've come for you. They've come for him. Richard! Where is Richard? We've started it. The King dared to dissolve the Parliament. Minna, where's Richard? When Richard comes, Dresden is one of the foremost theaters We are so lucky. Open this door, do you hear me? We have starved. When we first came to Dresden, we knocked walnuts from the trees to eat. I was so ashamed. Open the door! You have borrowed money from everyone. Even from members of your own orchestra You rant about their conditions, and then you borrow from them. Open the door! The only friends you have left have nothing themselves. Anybody will do. Anybody. Richard? Bakunin, see here. -Come look. You're facing your King's soldiers, -Your own Saxon soldiers against you! Bakunin, these. Ludicrous! Amateurs! Soldiers of Saxony, lay down your arms! Come with me, Semper and Bakunin. Simpletons! Lay down your arms, Join us, the people of Dresden, bearing arms to defend Our liberties and yours. We're all in the same boat. We must defend ourselves Whatever happens in this world, If you ask me, The working man Free men, artists, all of us. Our struggle today must express regardless of national boundaries. Our nationalism, must be only an ornament, Our work will either be or else condemn it forever -Wagner! Wagner! Someone must show us what to do. -Direct them. Not me, ask Bakunin. He's the professional revolutionary. You Semper build excellent barricades. -What do you suggest? Bakunin may well decide to throw but I'm sure he'd say The wrong people are inspiring it. People like you and me. I think he's just using us Why don't we climb somewhere -The Church of the Cross. I'm an architect Up there, like Christ on a temple! Yes. When you write your Jesus Christ opera, &quot;Off with his head!&quot; The soprano, &quot;Hang him!&quot; The basso continuo, that's Bakunin, &quot;Fire, fire, it's the only way.&quot; &quot;The only way is to destroy everything!&quot; Rubbish! Yes, perhaps you're right. Off with his head! Hang him! Fire, fire! Off with his head! Hang him! -Fire, fire! Off with his head! Hang him! -Fire, fire! -Fire, fire! Destruction! Destroy and start again! You set fire to your opera house! No, of course, I didn't, Such places should be burned down. One can't do anything The places are built for Italians Tiny houses for tiny music. Little mice squeaking in tune. This is theater. These flames. We need theaters that are this. Amphitheaters of fire, buildings that might encompass This is theater! I scribble notes of what I see for days in the hope it may be useful The lark up there soars to a dizzy height. Larks and heroes. How long will this all go on? Weeks now. The bullet that can lay me out March! Left, right, left, right, left! -Do you see them? The bloody Prussians! -Herr Wagner, we have met. Take note that I come at the request Ridden post to get here. You may go back Damn me, Go back to your royal Prussian master. You thought highly enough of my King Tell me if I disremember, I accept royal patronage no more. True patronage will come -Under Prussia, sir. It's because of my high regard for you that I shall not cut you down I don't fight musicians. Prepare yourselves. -What did the Prussian say? He must have liked it. -Wagner! I don't doubt It was as well Another day or so, Rockel was confined for over 13 years. As it was, a warrant and return to the scene there to be brought to trial, To face the music no longer with an orchestra at his bidding but as a proscribed criminal, For two months, he stayed until he was at last Entirely. He crossed into Switzerland from Bavaria False papers. Alone. However, as he wrote to a friend, &quot;From these ruins, &quot;Then I shall erect a theater &quot;and scatter invitations throughout Europe He did say that. -Then, as a man on the run, as it were... -Professor Widman or Herr Itzenpliz? He was not to return to Germany, not Saxony, not Dresden, and not Bavaria. No state would have him home He was not to build his theater for 27 years. We've lunched, for some reason best known to themselves. Herr Muller, why is it that Herr Wagner Mr. Wagner must have a stage I see, Herr Muller, for Richard Wagner. Sit down, everybody. Before reading my poem, Siegfried, I would like you to try On a door! You're positioned on a door, -On one of Jakob Sulzer's doors? My position as an artist, my reasons for being a year in exile My... My purpose, quest, and search for of our German past. The future German artist will emerge I'm shedding those boltholes into oblivion. Security, success, fear of failure. Change. I seek to change entirely searched for where we failed to change anything. &quot;Out of the realm &quot;there came into being &quot;that is, in gloomy subterranean clefts &quot;They are known as the Nibelungs.&quot; &quot;Feverishly, they burrow &quot;like worms in a dead body.&quot; &quot;They anneal, smelt, Wagner began a town devoid of art in the public sense, and good, simple-hearted, and put him in the way Minna had resisted joining him She had been happy in Dresden. It had been all she wanted and she was fearful she would be shut out. The borders closed against her She could not face the thought but she allowed herself to be assured that there would be no question She had no charge against her She could, therefore, So, blameless, in his exile in a foreign land. His pleadings were answered. &quot;Very well,&quot; she thought. If she was sure she could always come back she would go with Natalie, her daughter by a previous, her dog, Peps, her parrot, Papo, Siegfried's Death. First Norn. First what? Norn, you fool! First Norn: &quot;In the east, I wove!&quot; Second Norn: &quot;In the west, I wound!&quot; Third Norn: &quot;To the north, I cast!&quot; &quot;What wound'st thou in the west?&quot; Second Norn: First Norn: &quot;bent therefrom a ring, Second Norn: &quot;Thralls the Nibelungen,&quot; &quot;thrall too, Alberich, Third Norn: &quot;Free the elves of darkness, &quot;Rhinegold rests in the waters!&quot; First Norn: &quot;In the east, I wove!&quot; Second Norn: &quot;In the west, I wound!&quot; Third Norn: &quot;To the north, I cast!&quot; &quot;What would'st thou in the west?&quot; Second Norn: First Norn: &quot;with threats they asked The Ring in pay: When she got there, in September 1849, Set to... &quot;That on Neidhaid once I fought Hagen: &quot;Brunnhilde, woman bold &quot;Was't it to Gunther thou gav'st?&quot; &quot;Then is it his,&quot; &quot;and Siegfried hath won it by trick, &quot;Brunnhilde, betrayed, betrayed, &quot;Treason, treason, Gudrune, the clansmen, and women: &quot;On whom?&quot; Liszt. Rienzi. The Fairies. Thirty-seven years of age. &quot;The Royal Kapellmeister Richard Wagner &quot;on account of his active participation &quot;Medium height, That could be anyone. Thank God. &quot;Wotan, Wotan, Ruler of Gods!&quot; &quot;Wotan, bless thou the flames!&quot; &quot;Burn hero and bride, &quot;In joy may greet Walhall, &quot;My venger, Hagen, my son!&quot; &quot;Rescue, rescue The Ring!&quot; The End. Herr Wagner, let me fill your glass. You have read Wolfram von Eschenbach, Yes. Opera bores me. It's got nothing to say. I don't write operas. I write music drama. -Shall I go? That's the thing Are any of your musicals Yes, musicals. Liszt is giving Tannhauser in Weimar. -l can't go there! Switzerland is full of people Paris, Vienna... Dresden. Yes, Dresden. He'll be arrested should he show his face Paris. Take this Siegfried fellow to Paris, but you'll have to put Yes, songs. To meet you, at last, Frau Wagner. -Tell me, was the concert not... I know that most of the orchestra but does the music not... It does not. Dresden has one of the finest orchestras This is a band. A small town band. A Swiss cheese and mountain-call band. You were all quite dreadful. I think that Richard's greatness Do you? My dear Sulzer, come in. I hear that your friend Meyerbeer My dear Sulzer, you would not have me Meyerbeer. The last time I saw Meyerbeer was in Paris Was, at one time, Schlesinger's. Now owned by a much more pronounced and while I made conversation the only person left do you know Meyerbeer hid from me? However, I winkled him out Meyerbeer, master of melodious moonshine, stuttering and stammering, and here it came. His assumption as it were, my fortune! Meyerbeer was always willing to help but like everyone else who helps Richard, they're eventually repaid Meyerbeer gave out which assumption that the thought of having anything done, was odious to me. &quot;But,&quot; whines Meyerbeer, &quot;Liszt published &quot;We all read it.&quot; &quot;Ah,&quot; replied I, &quot;that a friend's enthusiastic devotion &quot;But,&quot; quoth he, and here the man &quot;However, the article &quot;You must seek to make profit out of it Profit? I told him that there were when the whole world &quot;But...&quot; A great butterer is Meyerbeer. &quot;However, what do you expect &quot;Are you set to write scores Whereupon I told him it was not in my mind which took the ground Meyerbeer, the Meyerbeer clique! Twittering Nibelungs, feeding on the sweet, a blood cake iced Pretty tunes, music for brothels. Deep inside the cake, they twitter, growing bellies that are fat, shoulders broad enough to carry Victors of the fame game. &quot;I, Meyerbeer, salute you with five acts Bravo, an opera by Meyerbeer! The world hangs hushed and stands transfixed in awe Hollow titles, rattling with arias Empty rodomontade titles like The Prophet, Meyerbeer entitles and it prophesies nothing! I can no more write operas without the aid of wires I know you came to encourage me. I know. I know you mean well. I know. I swing. I'm suspended, Minna. I'm neither here nor there. I wait for times to change and try to change times which you dismiss thus. There is a Mrs. Ritter who has a son A composer, I fear, of operas. She and another lady Minna. Richard. How we've missed you. Mademoiselle Minna Planer, the beautiful for two years and two months You must not have another child. No. I must never. I must remind you, Richard, that if I'm barren, as I'm barren, it is because your child died while we fled from your creditors, Maybe. To have another child would mean my death. Yes. Never to have had sufficient money. Never. It is so... graceless. What would you have me do? Work as others work. I give concerts. I concertize for pitiful sums of money. Is there something to eat? Tomorrow, there will be, thank God. -Liszt? I'm your child, Minerl. I sometimes think so. Richard. Why must you take money from this woman? Mrs. Ritter? She's English, I think, One of them is. Is it beneath your dignity These pamphlets You're a conductor of concerts. Conduct them. You're a writer of music. Write it so that we can live. Liszt wants me to go to Paris. I'm grateful to Liszt, He is, after all, a performer. The darling of the salons. They watch his hands on the piano Richard! However, he sees the music of the future. He sees it. He sees the fusion Very dimly, which is why I can't write The form eludes me. I know it. Greek, vast amphitheaters. Life and worship in their art. Sensual performances, Slaves and masters, Same tongue, same myths. Instantly accessible experience, and even food. The same simple attic food. Milk, wine, olives. The same women, in the same open manner. Music... is feminine. It lies waiting to be fertilized. The dramatic seed thrust into it. Words taken up However, poetry... Poetry is the reason for music, and drama is the reason for both. Paris? Paris is for Meyerbeer for which he earned some 750,000 marks last year, whereas I got 900 marks I told everyone you were commissioned -It was announced in the Dresden papers. So that I should not be ashamed of you. Yes, yes. Meyerbeer is in Paris given instructions that bells He fears suffocation after death. I'm in terror of it happening now... while I live. Oh, heavens. I have seen a theater... of flames. Liszt does Lohengrin? Yes, something. Lohengrin, the king of the fairies. You remember. Lohengrin, the Swan Knight. A fairy. Silk? How on earth What? You've sent me no money for weeks. -I always try, Minna. -Silk? Minna, you know Richard. Mitzel. Liszt suggested that the court at Weimar A nice house might be found for you. Lohengrin might be given in English. London might do it. You were right, Mitzel, Minna, the beautiful actress, I must get something for Paris. What do you say to Wieland the Smith? Shall your old Richil do that? I know you think and not live off other people. I've been offered by a lady from Edinburgh She and Frau Ritter Jessie Taylor, called Laussot now, He was on his beam ends. If her mother can put money into wine, &quot;Where is there a blacksmith?&quot; &quot;I need to hear &quot;I must learn to forge metal.&quot; I must learn to walk. Richard, your words -Yes, love. Jessie, I know. Wieland the Smith. You were his bride, chained, iron-chained, and waiting for him I do feel that. Enter. Did you enjoy your walk, Mr. Wagner? The sea near Bordeaux is very bracing. Madam, I find it not in me I fear for my health. How distressing. Did Jessie tire you? No, she... She was an inspiration. I'm so pleased. Is the sea air of Bordeaux from that which has brought you so low? Thanks also to you, sire, and to your beautiful young wife and we must never forget Frau Ritter, She's a good friend, a discerning woman. I see that your Dresden friends for their part in the uprising. -Yes. I must... -You must go to her. I was overcome. You're not now overcome? I'm recovered. We are all upset at the thought should Mr. Wagner have been taken up and so dealt with. Yes, though it's known was that of a mere spectator. An innocent... laid bare. A bystander. They were... Are, for a few days more, my friends. Where will they go? What will they find? Is there a heavenly place for them? A shrine? A mossy bank? I've tried to... explain my feelings. I have written to them in the simple hope I've told them that I'm protected Am I not in the bosom? The bosom, that place where love lurks I tell them nothing I tell them that, however, with renewed hope My... In my wings, I'm carrying on, in my own way the work for which they, are laying down their lives. Are they? Is there no hope of reconciliation... between yourself Shall you never be reinstated That, Madam, I do not desire, and with your money, it is not necessary for me I shall go to the east. What an excellent idea! East of where? Mrs. Taylor, with the 3,000 francs a year, I'll use half of it How far east did you have in mind? -I am going with him. I'm vital to his development as an artist. So too you will find am I. I would remind you that I've saved I'm delighted to help Mr. Wagner as well, so that he might more easily -I have never loved Eugene. Vital to his development indeed! I shall shoot the fellow should he dare I shall indeed! [French spoken audio] Stop! Yes? Yes? -Are you Richard Wagner of Dresden? If you're here to dun me, I have a letter of credit The composer and pianist Franz Liszt. I expect... Is it not money? It is by nature of being political, which I'm encouraged, as a guardian, to pursue with zest and power Might I put them to you now? Why have you come back to Paris? What have your reasons been, for being in Bordeaux? Have you tried to communicate The list here given in alphabetical order. I was only a spectator. Read it carefully, Herr Wagner, and when you have finished, Tannhauser. Now this is splendid. Revolutionary, one might say. I'm by way of being I'm told that my friends Rockel and the others. They're not now to be executed, though I would execute them, as you were. One should be. Herr Wagner, might I warn you, you're marked and will be watched and every country has its own list who need only to denounce you as in Bordeaux, for instance. Mrs. Taylor, Do you know he has No, he hasn't the makings but, for the sake -Might I take this? With a signature? Where am I to go? Herr Wagner, you may go where you wish, where you were going. A signature. I was going east. I'm told that your wife will arrive Wife? Wife? My wife writes to me, asking not to use any form of familiarity or affection In my letters, I'm to address her formally Wife? Might I suggest, Herr Wagner, you should move on, Yes. Switzerland was congenial to Wagner. He suffered from ill health all his life and, like others before him, in Switzerland with Minna, with two pupils taken in One of them was Hans von Bulow, The other, Karl Ritter, at whose house He rowed a boat one day to the William Tell Chapel. In the boat, Franz Liszt, My dear friend. My dear friend. What it is to have you with us. Why does he smile so? He's happy. Is he? Now Wagner, the gentleman is very wealthy. -Which gentleman? Oh, that? It would be difficult for me. I have taken considerable trouble and she's becoming as it were. As it were? She can sing. Un peu. Fort peu. I think the Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha for scoring his new opera. My dearest, What was his last opera called? -Tony? He's particularly intent on copying Is he, who? Le duc de Cobourg. -Who is your dear friend and patron? He's a close relative of Grand Duke Karl. -As well as a dolt. Only a dolt He asked me to find out so that he might apply them Work, he has no work. What a doltish question. How can you ask me [French spoken audio] I assured my royal patron that I would. Did you? You tell him this, then. Tell the royal buffoon unless I have an idea for a trombone. One just doesn't use trombones. Tell him also that I'm searching Not through my work on whatever work I want a prince who will support me undemandingly, By which I mean money, Liszt. Money, money, money, Liszt. All I want is money. Love I abandon, and art. Politics? Politics has abandoned me. Why do you smile when I talk of Goethe? You smiled all through lunch Why? It's because I have Do you? As well as for France? If you're not prepared is the cultural leader of Europe, then you're a baboon. You certainly grin like one. Never argue with Liszt I never do, Karl. Karl, you must not. My dear Frau Wagner, Liszt is one of the kindest, He would not dream of insulting you. I have communicated He... He called me a baboon. Baboon-face. Surely, it isn't all that important. -Surely not. I'm to be married. -I cannot be treated in this way. Ought you to, Ritter? Ladies and gentlemen, this telegraph It is a poem It will be read by one of our own poets, The Lovers Blessed, &quot;In every nest where lovers dwell...&quot; Karl is very upset, Richard. Is he? When he was a boy, he was teased Was he? The young fool &quot;So may we each stretch out our hand Wagner! Is it often that you have to play Wagner, well done. Far too well done. I would much rather Francois! In what respect? In every respect, How can one when seduced by the excellence Yes, and Liszt. I think Liszt played badly. One could see the genius, but... Frau Wille, Heine? Heine? Has the poet Heine, -Madam, I'm aware... Has Heine -It is the birthday of Liszt. We think very little of the poet Heine. Princess, Heine has captured Karl, don't make a scene. I will speak to Liszt I'm sure he will apologize in his own way. Quite possibly by letter. I shall demand an apology now. If I do not get one, my mother -No, wait! Surely, his name will be inscribed I suppose so. In shit. Are we not making too much of it? After all, the boy does look For years, A boy of great charm. Of great charm and beauty. Without beauty, there's nothing. My Siegfried is above all those things. Beautiful, no knowledge of fear. A boy too stupid to learn fear. Whenever I have the opportunity I'm conscious of the gift Too kind. -We should all pray our thanks to God... What is Siegfried's guardian like? Small and bent, deformed, and he hobbles. His head is huge. A great, bald head with his small and shark-like Festooned with a gray beard. He does, of course, resemble us to a hair. In Weimar, I'm told, they plan to institute to enjoy the whole people of Germany -Cultivate. One would hope so. A transformation is needed. Music must go What is needed is a transformation in theater. Listen to me, damn you! Damn you! Listen to me! I'm Wagner! In 1851, Wagner's health gave out entirely. Entirely. He was forced to take the water cure but he suffered from shingles. He suffered from constipation. He also suffered from gastric ulcers, but most of all, he suffered from black, hounding despair. He had written no music If he could but return to Germany. However, he could not. He was still listed here in Dresden but Semper, joined him Hermann Muller. There was always the pupil, Karl Ritter, or rather that of his mother, They tried to cheer him on his trudges and sometimes did. He wrote somewhere, determined, &quot;I shall return to Zurich to die&quot; &quot;or to compose.&quot; -I'm on the point of vomiting! You were not given He is some help! Liszt has recommended someone else, He may be more... This one's mother pays well, Semper. Pays well. Semper, look at it. Every theater should tumble before this. And come the day you and I, you with your plans, we come up here with such strength and there, slot into place. We'll blow horns and perform three dramas which shall proclaim I got away by the very nick. I'm now without money and a refugee. I haven't a penny to spare. -Not one. I'm destitute. Not entirely. -I'm given to rages. I'm writing a play. I suffer from pressure of the blood. I also. Yes, and more than that. An alarming, feverish activity. For my shingles, so much so that I sweat sulfur. Doctors... give me poisons. I'm not convinced This opera, composing and such, are you still at it? I am. Do you still hope for change? No, I do not hope for change. There is no hope for change. &quot;The world is only of physical, Then why seek to change it? Down, gentlemen, please. I confess I do not understand Do you not? Herr Wagner thinks it's very important. He's read this book five times Have you read it? Down, gentlemen, please. I think it impresses him A genius, some would say a madman, but given the superfluity beyond the normal trivialities and earning a living. It would seem breathing. Suicide, Sacrifice and denial of the will to live. I must live on and suffer. Naughty Richard. Poor Minna. In the mornings, I work. You? I work through the night I'd ask you to work in the afternoons Why? I am Richard Wagner. Success to you. I am a gunsmith. I've never had a need for... guns. The pen being mightier than the sword? Beating swords into plowshares. So long as man strives, he makes mistakes. Every man is worth studying carefully, Good day, sir. I often think a rich merchant, such as yourself, Wesendonck, that he might come such as Herr Wagner. I can find money for Wagner, but I would suggest that his wife be asked Where is she? I'm told she's sickly in Dresden. Frau Wagner. -Herr Wagner is a financial genius. In that he persuades money. Otto, were I Wagner, I'd hate Indeed, any gentleman Though, of course, Do you know he borrowed 1,000 thalers Yes, his mother for the musical education of the boy, as well as in appreciation He is that. My own wife tells me he is, and my sensibility confirms it. The one person who does not appear She sends him into despair, I'm told. Will not live with him one minute I thank heaven Frau Wagner simply doesn't understand and cudgels his brain to shreds. It's not merely opera. It's not merely music. That man just wants to change everything. Of course for her, Wagner, we discuss your finances. Oh, yes? Yes. On trust that I shall be paid back I shall let you have 7,000 francs, which I trust will expunge your debts. My dear Wesendonck, I'm grateful to you. There is also the small matter I'd hoped to cover it with a fee or they would throw me out of my humble... I can't sell the furniture. She has taken the cure. I expect her any day. Yes, 500 francs. Liszt does Lohengrin in Weimar. Do you know I have never... seen it? Nothing to do with her, nothing! The threads came together. Nothing to do with Mathilde Wesendonck! No, never. She gave me nothing except a summer house That's all I had from her. Nothing to do with her. I'm sorry, Minna. Sorry. Sorry for what I did to you. Sorry, Minna. Minna. Sorry, Minna. A house and garden of my own. A haven of calm at last. This shall be my last move of all. Wagner, my dear friend, Of course, I shall pay you rent. Of course. I shall never put on livery again. How I detested those breeches, Most insulting to a man. Now it is silk. Do you know, Herr Wesendonck? You must know, you sell silk. It is the only thing I can wear. I'm mortified beyond endurance if forced to wear covered in scrofula. Only the finest stuff. You'd know the finest stuff, How well you have done from silk. Here you see me, It's Good Friday. It isn't. -Church bells are not rung on Good Friday. Yes, it is. Well? Well? Isn't it better here? Yes. Aren't you happy here? I had a letter Yes, how is the dear man? He thinks I take too much laudanum. I think that. You still owe him a great deal of money. He works for your reinstatement. What? That you might be taken back. Back? As Kapellmeister. It's my dearest wish. Not too much laudanum. What have you there? It's a gold pen given to me by Frau Wesendonck. How kind. How kind. I see thee in thy gorgeous house. Hear all those who'll never understand Those who, strangers, are yet near to us. How dare they speak to us? Speak between us? They voyage, the questing, the voyaging we do, Though dreams of you crowd in, set sail with me. Does my dear muse stay afar still? In silence, I await your visit. Send you my barque to transport you. Together in our boat, we voyaged. No longer was I alone, a lonely heart. No longer the Dutchman, wherever you are. Everyone loves you. You love many. Your being as the sun is shown, whose smile brings every joy and blessing. My heart loves you and you alone. So tenderly, so heart to heart, you kissed me in my dream. I feel it still. That true love kiss. Awakened though, I seem. In life, my waiting mouth. Your lips have scarcely brushed over. No look. No cry. Revealed to you how sad my heart and sore. Do not scorn the dream Life looks on me with hateful eyes. The dream alone is good. Then what is falsehood? What is truth? What life and what dream stuff? Let me go dreaming on and on, for I have lived enough. Mathilde Wesendonck. What does that creature Minna, please, That poor man. You don't understand. You treat him like a servant. She treats me You imagine everything. I see. Very well. I shall go away. You must stay Here's another letter. You're not well. No. Not at all. This cannot continue. No. It cannot. What is that? A drawing, a sketch. Where does it go? To Frau Wesendonck. No, it doesn't! Minna. Minna! Please try to behave properly Such behavior is not understood, They don't live that kind of life. Such behavior is unknown to them. You're surely ill. You cannot talk me around anymore! Our intercourse Minna, do you hear? Minna! I shall not deny our love, and has never become carnal. My wife, were she well, would thank you as I do Dear God, how I wish they'd leave my work alone. If they can't... Why do they think to please me by this? My God, I regret ever having... -It's better to have it given... Do I presume to tell you about silk? How much a length? If the conversation would you ever hear an utterance from me? I cannot go on with it. I cannot see a way forward. I'm stuck with it. The Ring. I'm in a powerless state for money. Powerless. Once again, I have none. How it goes. Those who said they'd publish me I'm advanced nothing at all. Not a coin. Though it is read, published and read, I need money now. A performance now. I shall write a popular work This woman, this beautiful creature, We must come to some agreement about her. Some arrangement must be made. I think we should... share her. You use my house as your own. I'm put out. I'd wish to have said this but there you have it. Now said in a company Otto knows about our affection. I have no secrets from him, the father of my children. Quite so. Do you know What it is we do... together? The legend of Tristan and Isolde. A simple work. Our constant companion these months. Our love interwoven For the Emperor of Brazil. He asked for it. He will build a theater in Brazil. Semper designs it. I shall put Tristan and Isolde into it. I am going blind! Blind, blind, blind! Blind, blind, agony! Nothing to do with her! The threads came together, that's all! Nothing at all to do -Yes? Given to us by Otto. My dear fellow, how wonderful to see you. How do you do? More important than that. Can I introduce... Dear Hans, you have been in Berlin. How I envy you. You must tell us all. How well does your work go? -More importantly, can I... Did you abandon the law altogether? Can I introduce my bride? -My bride. -They want to spend it with us. -That piano is... The only worthwhile object Given to me by the widow, Erard. Frau Bulow, as if they were We shall make a lot of music. You'll be hungry. Minna will see Then in the afternoon we shall be with the Wesendoncks, All of us. -I'm so pleased to see you. What can I do? -Copying or anything? How does The Ring come? Valkyrie? That you should marry It is splendidly round and come together. There are times Have completeness. I'm so pleased, but then you know that. Minna, feed them. &quot;The light.&quot; &quot;The light.&quot; &quot;Oh, this light.&quot; &quot;How long before it was extinguished?&quot; &quot;The sun had set, the day had died,&quot; &quot;but its spite was unquenched.&quot; &quot;It kindles the signal &quot;and sets it up by my beloved's door&quot; &quot;so that I may not make my way to her.&quot; What are your feelings, Baronin? Mine are that I'm overwhelmed and the emotion. Frau Wagner. Frau Wesendonck. I have... I'm here to tell you of my husband. You are? I've come to warn you of your relationship with my husband. Please, I would rather you did not. I face separation from my husband, I've been mistress of his household. I'm the person to whom I'm wife to once who has, in the past, He's been Kapellmeister a position of some... worth. I have been beautiful. I was ravishing. I was worn down by his constant attention. Only this made me marry him, but I have had to support him for years. I have been in the way I gave it up. I gave everything up You have not given him anything. Nothing. Frau Wagner, including my house. Richard is quite shameful in these things. No, I do believe Everything is put in the world He regards the denial of anything A house, money, creature comforts, people. He regards such denial as wicked, quite simply wicked. He calls to me and says this, &quot;Minna,&quot; &quot;we must separate.&quot; &quot;Frau Wesendonck, who admires me,&quot; &quot;with whom I am passionately in love,&quot; &quot;cannot stand our remaining together.&quot; &quot;She cannot stomach you,&quot; &quot;your sickliness,&quot; &quot;your lack of children,&quot; &quot;your barren womb.&quot; This is not touching on my state. It is your vulgar letters. The undermining of my position. I'm sick and ill If I were a common woman, I'd show your letters that he might judge. Then my husband can return to his work, from which he has been kept so shamefully! Almost penniless again, seeking somewhere to work undisturbed so that he might get Wagner chose to go to Venice or so he hoped. When he got there, he found it gloomy. The gloom about him Liszt had advised him not to go to Venice. Liszt was probably right, but here he was, with his piano and determined to work. Could he but find lodgings, He was ill again with dysentery, and he was still on the list Venice, part of the Austrian Empire, but all empires distrust restless men and Wagner knew it. He saw the crumbling buildings the steady &quot;lap, lap, lick, lick&quot; and he sank deeper and deeper into himself until he could stand it no longer and demanded Hang the expense. Space... was what he needed. Hang the gloom. He would fill the space with warmth. His warmth. His energy must be the source. He would report to the chief of police and get it over just as soon Herr Wagner, Not here, sir. -Next door, if you'd be so pleased, sir. Through here, Herr Wagner. Large but not too large, I fancy. Are you intent on a long stay? There is the matter of... references. Are these walls filthy The gray? Hangings, I must have hangings. What furniture is there? A small deposit, Herr Wagner. Art and revolution. Judaism in music. Opera and drama. A communication to my friends. Sieg... Siegfried. Siegfried's Death. Your health, Herr Wagner? I improve, sir. Our chief of police of Vienna says I'm to send you packing Venice, being under the rule of Austria, I'm obliged to comply with the requests as well as a discreet watch of revolutionary intentions. Because I admire you you shall not be inconvenienced Well done, gentlemen. Rousing. See what you can do with Verdi next. If you devote yourself exclusively as the begetter then Venice is honored to have you, sir. I shall say as much to that Austrian. Indeed, I shall. As for the Saxon authorities, You will be watched because I need to show my Austrian masters but my agents will be told to help you if they can. Do they copy music? Nothing to do with her! The threads came together, that's all. Nothing at all to do In my presence. Do you know the story, doctor? Tallemant. The anecdote The doctor was bleeding the duchess, and while he was doing it, and told him he was an insolent fellow. How dare he have bled her in her presence? Permit me, sir. I'm Dolgokurow, Herr Wagner. I'm your servant, sir. Zichy is my name. We are both full of admiration We have seen everything of yours. I've not seen Lohengrin yet. Not been given the chance. -Lohengrin. -Tannhauser we saw in Berlin. Yes. Sir, you will be transported with delight when you can find time to visit somewhere Does Karlsruhe not give it? I believe they do. You may catch it in Karlsruhe, I'd be so interested in your reaction. Do you feel that it's not necessary I saw TannhAuser in the rain. -Indeed. At the summer theater, Lerchenfeld, but I had, been transported. -Had you really? I'd been transported. Shall you give anything here, -We leave tomorrow. Where have you been, Ritter, You've left your wife? I have needed money. What is this of you and Cosima von Bulow? It was a shock. The daughter of Liszt married to my... To our friend von Bulow. -Out on the lake... Baronin von Bulow. Who? Out on the lake, For love. -For me. Liszt is gone from Weimar, so we can't expect He tells me Tristan is a delight to him. -You said my Tristan was wrong. Oh God, now they're doing Rienzi. Salute him. I sometimes get a meal What Tristan? -I tried to write the... That was wrong, very wrong. You don't know anything about... The sooner they go off Give the French TannhAuser, boys. There's to be a war, Karl. My Tristan was not that bad an idea. You poor booby. Herr Wagner, I must warn you, We cannot continue Why can't you sell something? Very well. My God, you are all so tiresome. Money, money, money! Tiresome. I shall go back to my true friends, Don't follow me to Switzerland Tell your mother that! See the amount I'm not the only person in Venice Months of rent he owes me. What has he left me in payment? Paper! Take back your hangings. Have them. Tristan and Isolde. Will he dedicate it to me, do you think? Your destination, Herr Schultz? Paris, why not? -My dear fellow, how good to see you. TannhAuser, Wesendonck, in Paris. They want to do it Paris at last. The Emperor ever since his war with Austria. I was in Venice They went off playing... TannhAuser. The Emperor beat them but has become Do you know Not a bit out of tune. Tristan is finished, and I'm already thinking of a comedy. -Do you know about The Mastersingers? A comedy but full of melancholy. However, to attack Paris I shall need funds. How is Frau Wesendonck? We've had some correspondence. I would hope to see her the longer -My dear Wagner... Some small part of it in actual coin, Do give your wife my warmest greetings. Wesendonck, my dear friend. How much? How much? We must have a ballet. I shall do something I've always thought Give Venus more... Let us make Frau Venus a real woman. Eroticism, music to lay bare our most sensual yearnings Yes. -Tasteful, I hope. Do you know, Monsieur Royer, this is the first time I've been -In the first act. -You'd put the ballet in the first act? In Paris, Monsieur Wagner, in order that the gentlemen In our experience, and in the third, too late. The gentlemen of the town No, a ballet in the first act There you have it, Monsieur Wagner. Please meet Petipa. He'll design your ballet. Please, he will explain. Monsieur Wagner. -Petipa. Whoremaster. Might one say, Herr Wagner, The orchestra? Competent, I think. -Quite a number of them are German. They're the best in the world. It's because they dine at 8:00 that they can repair to the opera where they expect to find a ballet, as you see. -You are ill-advised, Herr Wagner. -I advise you! -From my heart! We're accustomed to a ballet and the members of the Jockey Club will not accept your opera Let me tell you this, Herr Wagner. Without the Jockey Club's attention, -That is fact. Absolutely fact! Then which act If these gentlemen I shall make that the best act. I beg your pardon. The Emperor Then, entire he shall see it. Note on note, every sound. Every note as I intend it, That doesn't mean who'd rather see Verdi in underthings. I'd rather lech among the sprites How well does Verdi write Does he prosper? Brothels? If they can do this what are they going to do to me, Hans? We aren't going to let them, Hans. Not an inch do we give the whoremasters. It goes well. It is a mistake, is it not, Richard? I'm beyond TannhAuser. However, it is yours, and you're given this opportunity What is this? TannhAuser. I'm revising the whole thing, most of it. Indeed, some of it. The tone of it. Its color. -Why? This? A gift from an admirer. On Wednesdays, I'm at home. Minna, it might please you to attend. I now have a public position, must share with me, -I'm your wife. Where has the money come from? That is no concern of yours. I must be able to receive people. My soires are attended by brilliant Women admirers? Don't be silly! Admirers, supporters, subscribers. I cannot appear to be less than them. Meyerbeer gives money away by the cartload Do you not soil your hands These are going to be your rooms. I'll expect you to stay but I hope you will make Just an appearance. There's no need You have a maid. Two pianos? Where does the money come from? I have a contract for nine months. All these copyists! You were forced to work as a copyist once, -How can you pay for them? They're necessary. There is new music. A ballet. Much to be done in French. If the music sticks, it'll be a devil That awful Venus. No, and I doubt you ever will. Are you given money by Wesendonck? -I have been. I shall not suffer that again! I don't expect you to enter these rooms I must sit down. I feel faint. I would not wish you Go, go! No, stop, stop, stop! No, no, no! Again! One, two! Four! Go, go! Go! Stop, stop, stop. More fire! Passion! Gentlemen! Gentlemen. Gentlemen! We are not Prussian soldiers but free men. Be so kind as to explain Herr Wagner, after interminable rehearsals, we refuse to be drilled like Germans! Even those of us who are Germans! I shall need Not less. I shall supply you with lunch and wine, and I shall pay you extra -Bravo! Sorry, my fault. I'm Albert Niemann. I will sing TannhAuser. I'm Richard Wagner. Do you want me? -It is a thought. I hear that you are. What's the fee? I shall hear you first. An audition? To give an auditory trial! -I know the role backward! How does that sound? By refusing to have a ballet you have lost the services -That is so. They will not appear. I can obtain for you Monsieur Wagner, we beg of you. -Reconsider. You'll have your ballet, I must portion it in the first act. You'll play to an empty theater! You're being used! That doesn't happen to me. There's more to this. -TannhAuser, political complexities. They're nothing to me. It is even said that although Franz won the war, that imposed a production A German opera, influenced, some say, I can't imagine why. I've heard she can't tell However, you must have friends. I've already been approached! Then you risk a great deal. All this concertizing, Bits and pieces, my dear, bits and pieces. Herr Wagner, you deal with a Jewess. If you want money, you must sign a note. It is necessary. In the case it's certainly necessary. Why, sir, would it not be? You are taking a journey Isn't that what he says? You give me a promissory note. I do, indeed. For the sum of 3,000 francs. The whole thing is too long. Too high and too long. The score must be cut, Herr Wagner. We are doomed to failure unless you cut! I shall want to get through my role My voice, you see! This is my opera, then scout out for another TannhAuser! Take it down an octave. Change a few notes or anything. It's only music after all. Monsieur Royer, I've had 164 rehearsals and within days of giving my TannhAuser, Listen to it! The musical director of the opera His orchestra? Mine! I sharped it, -It is? -Indeed, it is! Oh, yes! I compose music for a wild dance. Wild, bold, sensual, and look! -What do I have? If you'll not give will you consider No, no, no! ...charms to the admirers of a pas de trois. I am patronized by the Emperor. Yes, because he wishes by showing favor to one such as yourself. It's because he's persuaded that he should hear Wagner Wagner, do you understand? Paris is to see Wagner. Wagner, a serious There's a dislike of the influence I know she's Austrian. Petipa, I'm in despair. Look at that! Monsieur Wagner, I'm the finest ballet master Monsieur Sax informs me there are not 12 French horns It is true. -Then they must be made. -Might I suggest... It is a bacchanal! Yes, but if I try to do it I'd need all the premieres danseuses, and even so, were I to ask them the passion you expect were I to... Monsieur Wagner, in their tutus, Cancan! Paris is the center of the musical world. It cannot be helped. Paris... is not German. In Europe, Scores sold, works taken up and given. Wagner was well aware Well aware, for 16 years. -Herr Wagner? -I'm here to wish you success. You are sure of it. -Thank you. Sir, I do not intend to pay you anything. You or any other member of your claque. Then I can guarantee nothing. I, however, can guarantee everything. I'm well aware that you, sir, -Do you talk to me, sir? Would you wish me to speak in Hebrew I have never borne you Indeed, when you were younger, The service was slight, though I fancy any person It was obvious that my work There's nothing wrong I don't buy friends or praise. From what one hears, the flow of money I read your pamphlet on Jewry in music. It was written with such as you in mind. You used my name several times. How did you find the argument? I found it clever but offensive. I prefer to consider it I shall ignore it. I had letters who plead with me thus presented to them. -You shall have no letters from me, sir. One should always do one's best Allow me to reimburse you for what will be Oh, come now! Overlong, but quite well-crafted. It is wonderful and wonderfully given. It is all I would wish it to be. That will be your disappointment, sir. Tinkle, tinkle, tinkle. The things I try to put them out of my mind, but they are always there The frightening, We have both fled. We have both been hunted down The Cossacks always on our heels. I know, even at our moments of greatest security, even when success trembles... Please. Please. Get on with it, you idiot! God, not again. Not again. Well? Politics. Niemann wasn't good enough, was he? Quite. When you're recovered, Perhaps. -You? Princess Metternich is attempting Perhaps I shall be allowed I shall not stay in Paris. Vienna, perhaps. I hate the French above all others. Such disgusting behavior. Yes. If I'm accorded a passport, I'll visit you. As you wish. I intend to take the waters in Soden. That I knew. I have it arranged with Pusinelli. You despise me. -No. Minnerl, you don't. Perhaps. Burlow's trying to persuade to have me in Karlsruhe. I shall ask for a small pension. Do we like Karlsruhe? Perhaps. Tristan and Isolde, perhaps. That miserable moan. That disgusting moan! My husband wrote that, that filth, that drug, when he was besotted Culture carrion. Impossible to perform. I know. You will not find a singer to sing it. Maybe. Richard. Promise me no more lewdness with women. No more infatuations Promise me. Minnerl. You're cruel. Heartless. I'm glad I'm going away. Bulow, what will you do now? I'm offered a post in Berlin. They think of starting an orchestra there. Berlin. -You? I must leave Paris, that I know. Paris. Look at it, Bulow There's a market for anything in Paris. Even the leavings are smuggled by servants, still sauced Back-door bones from restaurants. Paris won't pick on my bones, Paris can afford anything Buy it and waste it. We're gentlemen of the three &quot;ins,&quot; Bulow. In debt, in danger, and in poverty. Two are enough for any man. Wagner became a journeyman again, a place to work, and a theater to offer him welcome. Always in his mind, there was a person to offer him everything No state in Germany The insignificant princelings were banded against him. Everywhere that he went, but most of all, he needed time. Money to buy time. His operas were given, true, He was becoming increasingly desperate that he would never be given the chance he knew would assure his place. However, first, Tried Wesendonck again. Your wife? Not good. Yours? Frau Wesendonck? She enjoys excellent health. Yes, good. Your health? Mine? Your afflictions. Yes. The usual. Your skin. What did you say? I hope to complete Siegfried. For Rheingold and Valkyrie? Twenty-four thousand francs I do assure you, Otto, The Ring is going You're to be my business partner I'll throw in Meistersinger. I'll soon finish that and somewhere to live. Investment in what, Wagner? I already hold -Investment in what? In me, damn you, in me! Perhaps. Have you tried Vienna? On the other hand, would show you Thank you, Wesendonck, but I'll not take money from those I'm not a swindler. The Grand Duke of Baden is thinking -Is he? To look for singers for my opera, Tristan. I shall see you don't find them. Highness, I... -Why not give us your opera here? In Vienna, we can do it so much better. -Your Highness. Your Highness. One of the most important critics I have a great admiration for you, sir. -Dr. Hanslick is a very prominent critic. My dear Wagner, we must all learn Artists and royalty are expected to smile. He's attacked me and my work, He is a pedant, a time-server. One day, I shall show him what he is. I'll put him in a synagogue. My dear Wagner, the Grand Duke He is interested in you. He sees you He has told me as much. You are the German composer who was patronized You will find with minor German princelings. Frau Kapellmeisterin. Sir. Herr Doctor, is that... Yes. He owes me money. He owes us all money. -Is she ill? She comes every day to petition Were we not all revolutionaries, I was his oboist, heaven help me. I sought change, heaven help me. I really want to help, but... If there's nothing in Berlin, Tristan? -In Vienna? Hopeless. I continue to work on it. It's a simple piece, That tenor will never be able to sing it. Never been in love in his life. I rewrite and rewrite to suit his voice. Meistersinger is the thing. Some money, anyway, and a household around me. I've arranged it for piano. It might be something. You could sell your fur coat. He can't go to Russia without a fur coat. I got it cheap from a Jew in Vienna. He asked for 220 thalers. I told him and explained to him that I'd only been given Therefore, he knocked I could sell this if only I could find a Jew in Berlin. The Grand Duke of Baden gave it to me. I asked him for a pension, so that I might settle to Meistersinger, In Vienna, they told me Rheingold, Valkyrie, and two acts of Siegfried, almost, but not the music, not yet. However, it's there I'm so weary. I came... near to doing away with myself. Maybe I shall. Not until you've at least heard Weitzman is your Jew. He can sell anything. I shall take it to him now. At least you'll have some money My dear fellow. Frau Kapellmeisterin, the minister is not able to see you today. Would it be convenient... Might you call back tomorrow? Illness keeps us apart. I would like to be with my husband. However, I cannot travel. My poor good Mutz, how do you find yourself? I work and work in Russia. I find myself I find myself enduring Always beset by companions, wherever I can find in front of an orchestra How is your health? Be patient, and it will improve. Of that, I'm sure. Let me know I'm interested in their workings. I still suffer, but so it goes, Goodbye, good old Frau Minna. Warmest sympathy from your... Richard. You're afraid. Yes, I am. The way you'd wish to change everything. Think more of your position, Richard, You hack away and hack away, You sit in the branch and hack the tree. My worst enemy is here in my own house. No. Not I. He's so always in turmoil! Schemes and ideas. Not his business! It's his business That's all and enough for anyone. Dresden is one of the foremost theaters We're so lucky. Kindness, I don't want kindness. I have plays, They're well-thought-out ideas. What about my report Three months to prepare, My ideas What about that? Not taken seriously. If there isn't a Germany... Bakunin, these. Idiots, amateurs! You know that nobody Do I? -Yes. -Me? You mock me for my seriousness, but if one Desolation. There is a stage out there. However, Wagner did go back to Vienna. Destitute again. All he had earned gone, but once again, he found friends. He sought out Jews who would advance him He found another woman. He settled to his stated task in Vienna. While here in Dresden to the pleadings of Frau Wagner, her husband employed stitching him into silk. I was an enormous success Really? This modest establishment in Vienna, my favorite city in the world, but I do need that our house, your house, now my house, To this end, my present wife being unwell perhaps I will divorce her. I ask you to marry me, Friederike. -Richard. His Majesty has again considered and in view of the great esteem that your husband His Majesty is inclined so that Herr Wagner in the city that was first How dare you? Sister. How dare you come -I... I have my reputation to think of. You are his mistress. I shall not rehearse Herr Wagner, Master, I'm unwell. My voice is in shreds. I'm not able to sing Tristan. I'm free. I'm free. I can go back. Minna? Minna? It is me. Richard. You have come. Yes. How is it here? Pleasant... when I am well. Are you not? I'm better now. We've prepared a bedroom for you. -Natalie. Richard, she's very proud to have recovered She hopes you still remember it. Will you stay? A study... I expect you still owe everyone money. I expect I do. You demand 3,000 marks a year from me, A settled household? Vienna... is an opportunity. The best I've had yet. The city is welcoming. The theater is... It's a chance, Minna. A good chance. If I can manage to put Tristan on... It's a simple piece, written to... appeal to the public There's nothing very complicated about it. It must be very successful. Though it is, as I say, a hazard. The work is immoral. All I wish from you so that I might work. Nothing else. What do you offer in return? I've always offered you You once offered love. You once... gave love. I was always at your side. Your devoted wife. You cannot attack me. I do. I accuse you of cruelty, infidelity, and inadvertence. All that I ask a settled home. For you to come back to? Perhaps. You have thrown away A respectable life In Dresden. -Yes. I was respected as Frau Kapellmeisterin. Now, you are respected as Frau Wagner. I am Frau Wagner. Yes, you are. You are. You are. &quot;In the morning, &quot;Soon, all is lost &quot;What was won quickly &quot;Open to all was this garden of mine.&quot; &quot;Both to the beastly and to the fine.&quot; &quot;Just bearably in this space, I'll be.&quot; &quot;Coinage, lead juice &quot;From pillories, the aspirant calls me.&quot; &quot;On airy paths hang I from the tree.&quot; Second chapter. Meistersinger. Hanslick, you're portrayed in it. You should feel very proud. It's not often a critic I've called him Beckmesser. I had thought of calling him Arselick, That was my backside, with something new to say. Is this the house of Richard... -Wagner. Thank you. It's a dressing gown. Where does he find He has been to every Jew in Vienna. This is what he does with it? All of this? The simple answer is, My dear Tausig, you look so unwell. I've just agreed Signed as much. I have agreed to cover some of his debts. We're looking for Mr. Wagner. Frau Schott. Frau Schott, wife to my publisher, meet Dr. Standhartner, You'll have a lot to talk about. Herr Schott, you know Cornelius. Peter, Herr Schott refuses -I'm not... Peter. Peter, you are the only real friend here. Listen, we must live together. Live with you? Richard, you destroy your friends. Look at them. You are too generous, Their money, their women, and their love. Everything. What are friends for? They've set the bumbees on me. I'm ruined. What can I do? A miracle must happen. -Then you must run. You've had your last penny from me. -What kind of publisher are you? You need a rich banker I'll talk to them. You go, Richard. Go. My name is Tausig. I'm surety for Herr Wagner. Who, if I may ask, -Gentlemen. Heavens! Your Majesty. The strangers list -Every stranger in Munich today... No, Your Majesty, and even one Richard. After all, it is a very common name, but this one is far too young, Then if he isn't going to come to us, Majesty. I can't wait another minute. Not another day. Twenty-four thousand francs I do assure you, Otto, The Ring is going You're to be my business partner I'll throw in Meistersinger. I'll soon finish that and somewhere to live. Investment in what, Wagner? I already hold -Investment in what? In me, damn you, in me! Herr Wagner, a gentleman -Name? Official? Very. Come up for my luggage in ten minutes. Thank you, Wesendonck, but I'll not take money from those I'm not a swindler. I can't live like this. The miserable life I must have beauty, I'm not as others. I have nerves The world owes me a consideration, and yes, luxury. Is it such a shocking request that I, who have should ask Come in, my luggage is ready. Herr Richard Wagner, Yes, I'm him. My card, sir. Private secretary to the King of Bavaria? I have that honor. Pfistermeister, sir. A young man, just come to the throne. Everything before him. He has everything he needs. As the ruby glows in the ring, so does the heart to greet the poet of Lohengrin. His portrait. He wishes to see you at once. He desires you to accompany me to Munich. Can you be ready Herr Wagner, I shall expect you. Good day, sir. Yes. Yes. It was a fascinating time. Bavaria had a new young king, brought to the throne of Bavaria I knew him. High hopes. The things On the surface, A strong young king and a strong people. Strong enough to depose when he shocked them Shocking. A lady called Lola Montez. However, Germany was still in turmoil. Not yet united, by force of arms if necessary. The only state strong enough Here in Saxony, Dresden, Prussia had never forgiven us However, Bavaria's strength eager to be led by their young king, Aware that politicians putting themselves forward Aware that these politicians perhaps towards a treaty with Prussia. Perhaps towards a surrendering for the sake of a united Germany at last. Into this cauldron of politics seeing only the calm surface, not the simmerings and seethings. Seeing only his Swan King, his perfect patron, at last. Herr Wagner, we have searched for you everywhere. Vienna. We heard you were there. Russia, Paris, Switzerland. Everywhere. Since Lohengrin, as a boy, I have wished to meet you. We intend to give you... everything. I have found you, and I shall be true to you My debts are considerable. They amount to considerable sums. Considerable to me. To His Majesty, they are as nothing. I had to sell my snuff box Do you have a note of that? A house, the Brienner Strace. Fashionable but quiet, near to the king. Big enough for me and my assistant, His Majesty has offered me He owns me and my works, so together, First thing, a theater. We must build a real theater. This is the Grail Room, the thinking room. -Do you understand? It is so-called because here... You'll find sanctuary. We'll find sanctuary. Watch it. Semper is to be sent for from Zurich I'm to complete The Ring, then Parsifal in 1872, As far as the world is concerned, Work is the only thing. There shall be no distraction. Nothing the world can do can obtrude because we're The first time I saw it. Where? -Where did you see it? I was a boy, but I knew when I saw it How was that? Since... From the first awareness. Lohengrin must be about us, my family. Us. I know. In Bavaria, everything comes together. The purest luck. I intend to make up Though you cannot know, you have been from my earliest boyhood. I have lived in waiting for the day See here. You, who spoke to my heart as no other, are simply to be my friend. No duties, no official appointments. Simply, Majesty, Every day, come to me. Every day. Forever. Look over here. See? Everything is known to me. I have read My imagination pictures them all. Siegfried, Brunhilde. Most of all, for I am he, Lohengrin, the Swan Knight. We will breathe life better than this. Real flesh and blood and sounds! What sounds! First, because we're still in mourning, Yes, of course, Some private studyings of Siegfried. -Bulow. Yes, Bulow. I shall appoint him. My Prime Minister, Pfordten, Eighteen years ago, -Friend! Then I had not done anything. Rienzi and Dutchman. Yes, but Rienzi was flawed, Your music makes kings. Not too many of them, I hope, in Bavaria. There's only one king in Bavaria. Only one. You will adore Tristan. It's so simple and easy to stage. -The Dutchman, first. I'm very angry. You are? Your husband, Bulow, Apart from the pain it'll cause Bulow, this amour you declare You're under the patronage and that is something quite... splendid. Now you'll know how wonderful life can be. La vie. Perhaps, as it has under the patronage but there are certain obligations. He asks nothing of me. I don't have to perform for him He asks nothing of me but friendship. I see. Maintenant, I must confess some... Envy? Cosima is my daughter. Ma fille, Richard. Her mother and I... If your friendship Is fast, safe, and true. He's a god, a young god. Surely, that is something, Cosi, you must understand. Munich is not a great like Paris or Berlin. The people can be scandalized and shocked by a liaison Surely, you understand it will damage your standing with Ludwig The great opportunity you, Wagner, are at last presented with. There is the religious aspect as well. The what? Yes. The spirit. I've always been concerned There's much work to be done. Yes, there is. When Bulow is better, -Is he unwell? He reels from one sickness to another. I've obtained