They're calling us trailer trash, undesirable. Leave us alone. We're not bothering anybody. We're paying our rent. Nobody here is a criminal. One in 20 Americans live in Many of them could face eviction at any moment. We already knew that we couldn't afford Why should we have to go rent Investors all across the country are And these new owners can choose or repurpose the land without warning. You're talking about families, and you're talking about elderly Mobile home parks are the most affordable I hope you can help me for my five brothers and my mother. As one investor put it: "Affordable housing gets hotter My mom didn't have to rely If they move her to a place where she has to pay $1,300 rent for the rest of her life, she where she didn't before. For low-income residents, What am I going to do? Where am I gonna go? And the guy puts a hot water heater and he said, "You gonna take that with you?" I said, "What street corner When Alondra Ruiz Vazquez and her husband bought a home at Periwinkle Mobile they had no idea that they Many of her neighbors have lived Everybody has their own This is our home. We own it. We own the mobile home, but we don't own the land that it sits on. I just don't feel that we can, we could and we should go rent somewhere where we own a home already. But unfortunately, the truth is More than 70% of mobile home but they still have to pay rent And when rent prices spike or the parks close, residents can't just up and move their homes. Because mobile homes aren't really that mobile. It can cost thousands of dollars to move them and they might even fall apart if you try. When we bought the place, we thought it was never going to be taken away from us. We were thinking we were going Grand Canyon University, or GCU, bought the Periwinkle Mobile Home lot But residents were not served a notice Alondra and her husband to be closer to their volunteer soccer club, which serves refugee children in the neighborhood. This is my kitchen. We have a bathroom over there These kids, like, they're really special to us. They are from Burundi and they are refugee kids here to the United States. And they are members of our soccer club. When their parents became homeless, We were able to bring the kids here. We've been able to help a lot of people. Many residents in the park worry their only option will be to live in the streets. Alondra's next-door neighbor, Jerry, It's good to see you. You scared me the other day. I bought this place when I was 55 years old so it'd be the last place I have to go That was 28 years ago. I am 83 years now. I'm in and out of the hospital And my doctor said if I'm stressed, when I told him what the problem was - he said, "Try not to stress out over it." It doesn't matter whether I try not to or not. I wake up in the middle of the night and... That's what I do all night. What am I gonna do? Where am I gonna go? They treat us like we're nonexistent. Why the government don't step in Fight for us. I started to worry about Jerry. Cause I know I had a solution. but I don't know where Jerry would go. I started to worry about my neighbor She's a single mom. I started like losing sleep just thinking, you know, Phoenix has historically been known as one of the most affordable major But that seems to be changing. For over two years during the pandemic, Phoenix suffered from the fastest-growing And even before the pandemic, 100,000 households couldn't afford their rent. We have a lot of mobile home parks that is currently allowing low-income They've been paying rent for years and years. They pay their property tax on this This is Pamela Bridge, a lawyer In January 2023, the Phoenix City Council authorized a $300,000 budget for the firm to provide assistance at Periwinkle and two other parks. But they are not permitted to represent undocumented residents, who are often the most vulnerable We are getting mobile home calls every single day at Community Legal Services, from different mobile home owners and tenants who are worried, who have been getting notices. We are seeing the same situation the increased rents or the landlord I think a lot of out-of-state investors think that they can do great business in Arizona and that is what we are seeing, but throughout all types of property owners. In October 2021, the average rent in Phoenix reached nearly $1,500, which is triple what some residents Carmen Prieto is one of these residents. She lives in a mobile home park called where she owns a two-bedroom mobile home. She pays around $500 a month in rental fees. But Carmen and her neighbors were given - Good morning. I've been living here for 11 years at this mobile park and it's been like you see it, friendly. A lot of people don't know what to do, especially if they have six children, five children. They gotta get a what? Can they really afford that? Trailer parks is only $500 We paid off our trailer. We bought it cash. Carmen receives around $1,100 a month through social security due to a disability. She first moved to the park because But now, she can't relocate her home. Mine's a 1973 trailer and they They already said they won't be able to move. Due to federal housing regulations, mobile homes built before 1976 In fact, any mobile home built after 1976 is technically called a "manufactured home." But among residents, the name didn't stick. Even if you are allowed to move your home, Arizona offers some relocation funds for but it often isn't enough to cover moving costs. To move it, it costs $7,800 of their pocket But it costs us more to move. And the bottom of the trailer, you move all these sidings in the bottom and then they have tires. See, this is the hitch. The hitch is already on there. I think if we move it, it's gonna It will fall apart. Carmen's daughter, Patty, says park didn't provide information about Arizona's relocation fund in Spanish. - You don't have no papers for us in Spanish and you say you want to help us. This is clearly majority Latino people here. - I will come to another meeting with those forms. - On the 29th, he is going to bring them in Spanish. And he never did. The Arizona Department of Housing to inform tenants about the relocation fund. But they say they have bilingual staff available to assist tenants who contact their office. Still, Carmen says that she and her neighbors only received the original letters They see me in the streets And they asked me clearly, &quot;What does this say?&quot; I had to translate it to them. While it isn't illegal to only provide it makes much more difficult for tenants Then it felt like this monster that don't understand what's happening I think it's our community in general, that is... First of all, we're not informed of our rights. And secondly: in fear. Fear that's in the back of all these people's mind. Like, "Oh sh*t, they're just gonna and round us all up and just shoo us to Mexico." How do we fight that? All we have is our voice. For Carmen, her trailer is a lifeline for her family. She is the guardian of her two granddaughters, who she helped raise in Weldon Court. She even helped deliver her grandson - And my little girls do consider this safe. This is where they play, they know all the neighbors. All the kids grew up together. My little girls consider this my mom's house. So this is my mom's house Sylvia Herrera is a community organizer in Phoenix. She and her husband, Salvador, have been helping mobile home park residents fight evictions for a decade. You can see the gentrification here and this is all part of the plan to get rid of low-income So you see central Phoenix and these areas that have mobile home parks are totally going to be literally demolished. Mobile home parks are purchased sometimes to build apartment and sometimes just to revamp the parks In 2018, Sylvia and Salvador connect with lawyers after they Some residents were able to but they say rent spiked dramatically. - Hello. You are all an example of how when you fight, you can accomplish things. It doesn't matter that they raise the rent, but we want to stay here. We're happy here. And the reality is that in other places, the rent is becoming unbearable. Everywhere, the rent is [so high]. That's right. There aren't places. This is the only place that you can rent. - Initially, we paid $250 dollars in rent. And now we pay $750 plus utilities. And the old owner always had green spaces. Groundskeepers would come, they did cleaning. We always had services. Now, we don't have them and we pay more. Sylvia and Salvador are now helping mobile home residents connect with pro bono lawyers. In many cases, the only thing They can attempt to have cases like not providing adequate notice for the eviction. In Las Casitas, dozens of residents to hear updates about their case. - The city is saying that they We have limited time to put pressure on them. And tell them that you have all looked for places Tell them that there isn't anywhere for you to go. Members from all three parks at Phoenix City Council meetings to ask for help. One of their main concerns is their children. My siblings and I were raised and My parents as of right now do not have Just as it is affecting us, And it's possible they aren't expressing it. An 11-year-old child cried and cried while It left me really sad. If they can't find new homes by their deadline, residents of Las Casitas, could end up unhoused. For them, it's nothing more than a trailer. And these are our homes that are within our reach. I don't want to be another one on the Because they have already demonstrated that they don't care about the Despite the hardships they are enduring, residents are committed to working towards We are united as Latinos, right? Yes, we're poor - that's why we live here. But we have to keep going and not falter. Trailers! United! Will never be defeated!