Hey everyone, I've been getting a lot of and several dozen of you have asked me to address recent appearance on Joe Rogan's podcast. While I felt this one was worth addressing for a If you don't know who Terrence Howard I've never seen him act in anything. He was in and I've never seen any of his movies. I don't know and I don't care. What's more delusional narcissist who thinks he's the smartest he started showing the world his god complex, but go back just a bit. Here he is making a total fool I've made some discoveries in my own personal searching for. I've been able to open up the conjugations that we've been looking for, for water for tips when I've got an entire That's a big remark! that Pythagoras was searching for. Pythagoras things he did that could be considered part of the harmony of the spheres, where the planets moved which of course was just baseless conjecture things. He says he was able to open up the "opening this up" doesn't mean anything. It's just you get 19 circles. Yes it's nice and pretty Meaningless. Conjugation is something you do to a number, and person. Here is a conjugated Italian horizontal transfer of genetic material between and you can't conjugate a wave. 10,000 years is a recorded history. He tosses out "walking on water" has absolutely nothing to teach even a small a big remark" says the interviewer, clearly conversation without directly insulting him. Well let me put it this way. All energy all motion is expressed in waves, all waves come from to make the Platonic solids? There are life and opened it properly, I found all new wave it's the thing that holds us all together. what is the... Platonic solids? By motion? Whatever he could mean by that, he's held by an object by virtue of its position in field. No motion, yet energy. Matter can be not all motion is "expressed in waves". The expressed with a wave. Linear motion also exists. solids? That's these. Convex regular polyhedra polyhedron means that all the sides are the exact polygon, which means a two-dimensional shape are five of them, and they were conceived of as else in geometry. And just for fun, if you take a you can get those straight lines he said don't he did not conjugate any waves, he doesn't specify or how they hold anything together. In and these anchors are justifiably laughing I'm sharing that, on Tuesday when I receive gravity is only an effect and not a force. build the planet Saturn without gravity, and Did you also say you're getting your star? On the walk of fame? Interestingly enough, in the context of general effect and not a force, but it does not follow worse from there. He is going to "build Saturn" Like in a simulation? That needs gravity. If I would worship him as the one true god. But watching some Electric Universe frauds on YouTube And we've come to find that the universe, the ideas of black holes and dark matter, for response to the Birkeland current and all these of how we should see the universe. That's how Bingo. Terry binged some Thunderbolts project he thought of it. Then this woman tries to change not ever having been nominated for an Emmy. dealing with, but it gets much worse. Around his new form of math, which he dubbed, I shit startling new revelation that one times one is he select to announce this groundbreaking And when I was at Oxford, now this is the point Can I touch it? meet. This is an undiscovered geometry that I am Isn't that fantastic? Well when I was at Oxford, they were didn't graduate from one of their prestigious root of two was a rational number. And I I just came to prove to you that it's a rational You heard right, Terrence presented his laughed at him. But why would they laugh at The View will be a more receptive audience? economy is based on one times one equaling one. one equaling one. Well economics does involve surrounding numbers that even children So if you can prove that an action times an then one times one must equal more than that kind of shakes things up a bit. Wow. If you can prove that an action times an actions. They're numbers. So that doesn't mean mean anything, because actions are not numbers. reaction, no matter what he could possibly mean object that are equal in magnitude but opposite no reaction. Sorry, Terry. But more importantly bananas idiotic, let's review what multiplication operation which is essentially repeated addition. times, and then you add them up. One plus one plus one three times, add them up. You get three. One times one means you write one one time. So it's discovery is just him being dumber than a so this lady isn't wrong. Let's be clear. There are only two possibilities. style extended piece of performance art, and is delusional narcissist incapable of living his life in human history, or let's be honest, a god. I'm this all before. Pick your favorite flat earther. of minds can't face a world that doesn't recognize word salad, convince yourself it's science, Everything inherently is dielectric because it medium, the universal background, the absolute is the aether, it receives energy from that. mental gymnastics imaginable to maintain the less I find it cute or entertaining. people and measurably worsens society. It's not going to laugh quite a bit more before I return let's dive into his very recent appearance on aren't going to hit every moment. Rest assured, but let's just go through some highlights. dreaming and you're falling, and that was my first memory. But I didn't wake I was about, maybe six months inside the womb. that he remembers being in his mother's womb. I'll physically impossible. Got any proof, Terry? You remember coming out? remember being born, I remember being circumsized, was when my wife Mira that you just met, I wanted to prove to her what I was talking day at six o'clock at night. And I would move that for a week straight. First thing he wanted to do stage and I can ask him the square root of two, the square root of pi, and he will run it off. a random anecdote about his wife's and a lie about his son being able to do math And then when I was about five years old, I and he would hand me these shapes, and each access to all the knowledge. The proof of it of it is the industries that I've innovated. universe's knowledge is that he has some patents, proves absolutely nothing except that he likes to that's why he doesn't actually do anything You know, I had the grand unified field equation. I was working with these things. And then I went Yes, he had a grand unified field equation and the dog ate it, and then he forgot what prize for physics. Also his girlfriend goes to But my intention was to rebuild the periodic Because the stuff I had learned in college, you the first year over at Pratt. And they, at and I told the teacher, the professor, about the and carbon, and silicon, and cobalt, and I just doubled in each octave. And he was like will always be that element. And I was like you Did you "leave school" or did you flunk an octave of carbon" on your exams And I was going to spend 40 years rebuilding the had already did that, and he did it based Walter Russell, who was not a chemist, made this chemical elements display periodicity. You can make spirals and other shapes. It's arbitrary, and insight into chemistry or any predictive power he likes pretending to understand chemistry better And when you say rebuild the periodic Well the way the periodic table is laid way over there by itself, but they don't show What do you mean by tone? key of E. 40.5 hertz, the next one would be like and would be 162 hertz, you'll go to cobalt and if you were to take the angles of incidence, or like you can turn color back into sound. about, and Terry is off to the races rambling not notes. They're not keys. They're not anything a particular number of protons in the nucleus. numbers. Angle of incidence has to do with light, to say about this unparalleled gibberish. hydrogen, carbon, silicone, cobalt, rhodium, point between two noble gases. So those things No, Terry. Those elements exist. Hydrogen and different elements. They are not the same thing. which is not the same as a sample of silicon and respective periods, which is irrelevant. we're able to perceive is hydrogen. That's it is too dense for us to perceive No, hydrogen is the first element because it's Elements are defined by the number of protons the smallest positive integer. Of course you're being the smallest positive integer can no longer But as you reach into the next octave, a bisexual tone. Because the carbon has two tones The part where lithium behaves, lithium is is contractive. But the moment you get to carbon, of plus and minus four. So it's a double tone. have sexuality. Elements being everything he is saying is meaningless. if you have, you wanna break water into all you have to do is introduce beryllium, violently break away from any other thing, Ah yes, the infamous they! What are they perform electrolysis on water! But how? Not not even beryllium itself, just the sound Yep, that's what beryllium sounds like. Startling, body turn into hydrogen and oxygen gas and but even funnier than that, beryllium is the only water. Every time he speaks he's wrong in so many The reason that arsenic kills us is because our 'cause nitrogen unwinds into the next octave right both of those in there, but it's going by tone, so the next octave, the moment arsenic is introduced, need, and it tries to wrap itself around the Wow. Arsenic is harmful because it interferes it enacts allosteric inhibition of pyruvate in aerobic respiration. That means it binds to active site, and the interaction changes the shape of carrying out its function. The cell can't make similar effects on other enzymes involved with anything that's harmful to biological systems with the cellular machinery, which require DNA does not "wrap around arsenic", nor does it or literally anything about molecules in general. but now, with the wave conjugations, we can. We the angles of incidence that were necessary do that with the Platonic solids because the It really is just breathtaking the way he throws much confidence. What does one even do with Platonic solids. These don't go together. cream to monkey of eleven dizzy. Your reaction to Platonic solids are specifically the opposites of idealized structures. Reality consists of It's legitimately challenging to come up with It took me several minutes to write the monkey like monkey of fire which accidentally make more Because the universe is based off of equanimity, relativity, the balancing side of the gravity, is always seeking a higher pressure condition. It of an area, the center of a cone. But the next and as it's pushed out it gets to the vortices. disperses from higher to lower pressure, you can't center of an area can't mean center of a cone three dimensional, and what is pushed out to are only 19 minutes in, and it's all like this. of these 64 circles overlapping, they and they invented straight lines. Because they believed that the world is flat. and Parmenides were the first people in recorded and substantiate it logically. But more derived from playing with polygons and making none of this geometry has any correlation chemistry and physics. They're utterly separate This is hydrogen. And as I was saying, center of that triangle. But it gets pushed out. and where is the electricity exactly? patents to that. I call that the tetryen. can patent shapes now. I know the guy who has Spheres that's going around this, but the attractors. And this looks just like a Yeah, it looks just like a photon! Massless he made up, because he says so! and then I put five of them together, but then when I put ten of them together, they lay of matter within the electric field. prediction! What do they predict? The us a prediction, Terry. No? Back to gibberish? came out with his book, and he introduced his went up and collected Nobel prizes for deuterium, discovered. And I was like ok, let me wait until Walter Russell wasn't a chemist, he was an artist, Terry. People aren't awarded Nobel prizes in got a Nobel for discovering deuterium just don't know what isotopes are, even Back to Neil Degrasse, when he and he said if you have any other questions he wouldn't take my calls anymore. I was like ok. and I reached out to another guy, Dr. David Tong. public educator, that he wouldn't Yeah, Terry sent his ramblings to Neil Degrasse science assumes that Neil is the president to explain to him how everything he says is but Terry the narcissist presses forward, shocked waste his time placating a toddler. Joe seems educating people, not spending time and insane they are. Why this fixation with Neil? of his show the cosmos that he was doing after The very first episode he had was talking about was looking for that grand unified field equation. when they do it it's going to change the world. Giordano Bruno was not looking for a grand unified the 16th century. The concept of fields didn't in the 19th century. This is the problem with no respect for science whatsoever. They have no the history of science, what any scientist did, none of it. They are singularly obsessed with can change the world. It doesn't matter what unified field equation. Because it doesn't nothing more. That's what everyone was trying to the one who's done it, because he says so. the sun gave birth to the Earth, that it didn't do you guys know that the Earth is drifting away solar system is drifting away from their primary this is a universal expansion that's happening and the Webb telescope had proven that those ago. But if you would just add up linearly, how 93 million miles away, it's 9 trillion... hold on. This is what I'm talking about. He can't about astronomy. The expansion of the dynamics of an individual solar system. as though our planet emerged from inside of a And the idea that we have measured this for We can detect an exoplanet's orbit increasing calculator that you already told us shouldn't Well, 'cause I know they're watching Who's they? world economy is based off of the politicians and (accridation?). And those authorities, those based off the Platonic solids. And our world You think they fuck with your phone? couldn't even, I have to turn it off. the simple delusions. The shadow government is solids which are the basis of every economics I'm shocked that he's not a flat earther, because he's an anti-vaxxer, obviously. And Joe is too. the governments were trying to poison their nobody else took. That's when I was like wow, jobs because I refused to take it. I refused to. when you know all these people that Cancers has increased 300%. Pulmonary embolisms almost up like 500%. No, none of those things are true, believed them. But Terry has a little bit I can walk you through what the spike protein did DNA that tells us that there's a damage, there's highway, and they immediately put up cones every which is never, no protein has ever been able to go to the ribosome and say hey, you know what, like if it was a skin cell, you're not going to produce these spike proteins. That spike protein turn off. And that's the gene that says hey thing. And so now the cancers are building up. He doesn't know what genes are. Genes don't "tell assembly. That's why he goes to his pathetic because he doesn't know how transcription and this spike protein, and he doesn't know what that binds. Making a spike protein doesn't render proteins can't "go into DNA", they can't "tell a don't detect mutations, the enzymes they code for is. This is really pathetic, let's skip ahead. calculations you created the exact Just the exact form of it. So you change the angles of incidence that these has, these are opposing vortices, so there's the angles of incidence change, you change now change the condition or the crystallization. without gravity, and without explaining literally the planet is there. What are the dots? Where itself? Planetary formation is a process, this are no vortices. Nothing is opposing. There is no He is just listing random buzzwords. material engineering can now separate the space and have the same elements of titanium, vanadium, nickel, copper, zinc, gallium, or germanium, silicone and phosphorus, or silicone and aluminum. because we can now control the pressure and motion because they were going by Cartesian straight lines, the Euclidian space or church-like space that they've generated, He doesn't even know the names of the elements. He says silicone instead of silicon, because material. He can't pronounce orthogonal. He's and he is doing nothing whatsoever what he just showed to Joe. He's practically (speaking in tongues) pretends that this brilliance was hidden because the cross. Does he not know how much power this who would never fall for any of this bullshit? He Da Vinci code vibe that ensnares gullible people. this theory? So you have a sun, and how The same way we defecate and have gas. that's spinning on it, that's going to become a that will ultimately become a moon off of Where do we discharge at? Right at our equator. explain something, and Terry's response is we take a dump on the toilet. Case closed, red spot on Jupiter will be a planet since it's a storm. It's a cyclone. How does a just so objectively wrong about every trivial it's 22 degrees below the equator. Humans don't anus is not located on the waist. This is such a science and insane ramblings. Ask this question of explanations, equations, predictions, confirmation Terry, and what do you get? The sun takes Everything is just one great being. We're all Buddha was talking about. It's Actually neither of those people said anything and in Christian mythology Jesus didn't say that he was god. That's kind of why the for excuses to call himself god, and he's Here I've invented, I'm an oscar nominated face recognition, vocal recognition, all around Tangential flight, the ability to fly around your able to do, and you don't hear anything about it. body and congealing into little origami cranes so his imaginary invention must be brilliant! know what a tangent is. And of course fly or do anything. He just has cute animations. around to stop and turn the opposite direction... They just switch the direction. They just, and so now instead of going up you're going down, trying to reach out to Elon Musk, I was trying my main goal was I was building these to clean up there, and ultimately to mine the asteroid belt. on a screen to trigger an animation, so it's about this crappy video game. Terry is not only he's better at building spacecrafts than everyone hubris is off the charts. It's not worth listening that he has invented revolutionary technology, and And so it's just going to react, and immediately anything into space. All of that has Delusional narcissists always have this precise Ben Davidson, they all do the same thing. ignore my super brilliant revolutionary against me because they're afraid of my truth! hours into the three hour podcast, and there's manic hogwash with virtually nothing to even times I can point out that what he's saying is that needs to be made. Pretentious tools like can by speaking confidently, and using jargon they they do with it? What can they physically achieve but that's because he never learned any physics for example. This is something he was supposed plug in some numbers, and you get an answer what will happen when you let go of the block. that thing does happen. Terry's gibberish doesn't no predictive power, no technological basically hypnotism. But as I mentioned thinking is dangerous, and these types of people Because I was angry. I was really angry. And I I was going to destroy mankind. I was like, yeah, I was about to, but then... Statements like these are very revealing. It's kind of power, and he contemplated exercising who else has had such thoughts, and acted on them? the exact same self-aggrandizing tone, the same This is the psyche of cult leaders and domestic necessarily would or will blow something up and murder people tend to think this way. They have that enables them to first think they're better the right to exercise power over others. Terry mental institution to get treatment for his people saying I have no right to diagnose technically you're right. But also, he is a that should be committed to a mental institution. about him, they'd have done that a while ago. Carlson I gave Joe a bit of a pass, but here Joe First, Joe desperately needs a better bullshit is completely full of shit within a few sentences even need to be able to articulate with clarity in his manner of presenting ideas, the way the way he overperforms to give the impression rational person. But the other problem is which I've mentioned many times, and that is the This is not something, like you're explanation very nature of reality itself is not No. Thank you for saying that. it needs to be slowly examined. Because you've People with this bias can hear any ridiculous they will immediately give it far more credence desire to see established knowledge arbitrarily seeing how stupid this all is because he Wow. I wish I could really truly understand of getting it, and you're doing a great that really changes everything. And it accounts for why physics It doesn't matter that Joe has no clue what he's he isn't really saying anything, he just blindly and that the imaginary garments must be clothing that establishment science provides, just because he refuses to lift a finger It's contrarianism on steroids, to the point can be called into question just because of superior to the masses. Even something as trivial the dissenting voice should instantly be taken an infantile attitude that is destroying our other way for fear of making waves or insulting a daily basis. He may not be evil, or deserve and balances that maintain civic responsibility. an antidote. Everyone in his vicinity should is until something registers and he takes it upon ramblings have an impact. Certain people listen, the body of human knowledge, or any concept of the poor choices they make as a result. But what's This is what you'll be remembered for. That about sums it up. He will be remembered contrarians want to delude themselves. genuinely astounding to me that anyone would and subjecting myself to several hours few months off of my life. So I hope you got