(upbeat music) - This is Stanford Engineering's and I'm your host Russ Altman. If you enjoy the podcast, that you're listening to that you never miss an episode and you're fully briefed on today, Mathias Kling is gonna tell us about how our ability to of light is gonna revolutionize and computing. It's the future of ultra fast electronics. Before we get started, please remember to follow the show in to that'll guarantee that you never miss So we all know that electronics fiber optics, they're operating which are 1000000000th of a second. There are a billion and that's how our computers and smartphones are working these days. But physicists have to generate pulses of of attosecond, A-T-T-O seconds. There are a billion attoseconds therefore, if you've it's a quintillion of them in a second. So what does this matter? Well, it means that we might of physical systems that capture and even make movies of chemical or individual electrons of a new material. It'll also lead to faster computers, including both traditional Well, Mathias Kling is a and applied physics at Stanford University and an expert at these and their applications. He's gonna tell us how all of this technology might revolutionize the future of everything. Mathias, one of your areas of research expertise is ultrafast photonics. What are the technologies or capabilities that are making - Yeah, thank you, Russ. First of all, thank you for having me. I love talking agile, agile fast. So when you think about that we're experienced our computers, right? They run at gigahertz frequencies. So that's, if you convert that to a timescale is nanosecond scales. So that's sort of scales that we're, we're sort of used to. But then there, there's quite of scales below that where things evolve even around in new electronics. And the timescales that I'm concerned with are even faster with are even faster So that's 10 to the minus 18 seconds and it's just in an It's a billions of a billions of a second. And you have to write a lot of that one in the end. - Yes. And essentially one attosecond that's about the heartbeat rate, right? As one second to the age of the universe. So just the ability of to look at these is already mind blowing. And in fact, 20 years ago was in 2001 in fact was the magical year where two groups managed to measure the first of Terrance Cross and Pierre that developed that is called where you generate x-rays from And they have been awarded So this discovery, and there's a good reason that because these very short light flashes, they allow us to take movies. So imagine you are, you're In a disco or so, and you have that flashlight Then you will see yourself of dancing around the floor. And if you put them all of assemble the whole dance out of it. And in a way, if we use the, use these extremely short light flashes that are just out a second short, we can actually flesh them at electrons as they undergo motion and or whatever it is, and we can see how they move from A to B and so on. So, so they're so incredibly very short light flashes to sort of take a still frame image of the motion. - So that's, thank you very much. So that's fantastically exciting. Attoseconds are our new What kinds of things that you could take a So you mentioned that the or so, so we can get nice pictures of a heartbeat since it I only have to divide or a hundred, 100th of a and I can get a nice smooth We don't need attoseconds Well, maybe I'm wrong. You'll tell me at least the gross heartbeat. It would just be a and many people know about this now because we all have slowmo on our phones. If you take too many time points, it just takes forever So there must be at the attosecond timescale. Paint a picture for what kind see in these movies. - Yeah, so imagine your, and the first movie, in fact that Edward Mobridge took at Stanford. Stanford University but Stanford was this big horse farm. - Yes. - And, and they, the question four hoves in the air as And, they couldn't answer that question because it was just, And so they were debating And then Edward Mobridge of assembling a set of and sort of triggering them one by one as the horse was going along the track. And so he recorded of the horse along the track and well, he did capture, in fact, one image where the horse has So, they were able to answer that existed at the time that was ever recorded. And we're taking this basic concept to the extreme. So we're looking at the fastest motions that you can imagine nowadays. And that is electrons zipping around small molecules. And so one very fundamental and there's actually a paper is photo emission. This, the photo electric that Einstein essentially was able to describe using quantum mechanics. And he was awarded the Nobel price for this discovery, for this description. And it's essentially you shine light on some metal, for instance. And what is emitted then as an action of the light impinging on this, on this structure is an electron. And this electron has a and we can all measure that. And so you would think this So at least his prize was, this is well understood, right? 100 years of physics, I mean, but in fact, what was not until attosecond science came along is how long it actually takes by the structure and the - Yes. - And this was assumed to be essentially instantaneous, right? So there was, it was so it's instantaneous, but So if you look at the that this electron and it needs a little And the interesting thing to come out has a lot environment it's in, right? If it's in a molecule and an atom and how many other electrons are around and how it kicks around other electrons and things like that. And so this is quantum We're looking at the timescale. It takes an electron to come as we shine light on it. So are you taking a movies of multiple electrons leaving the surface and then averaging them to get a sense? Or are you able to actually of individual atoms leaving the surface? - Yeah, so this is interesting and this actually brings There's been experiments that these noble laureates or the birth of attosecond science using just normal tabletop And in that case, they looked at what's So these are electrons that are sort of the least bound electrons in some sense, and they're the easiest to remove. And they're typically, they're not very localized, right? So, if you imagine you have a solid or you have a molecule, these electrons, they don't sit just on but they have some kind of delocalization over So your question is a very good one because using these tabletop to answer where exactly Now we can use x-rays and these x-rays penetrate very specific atoms. We can tune the energy an nitrogen atom and oxygen And then look at the photon emission from that particular atom in So we are very specific, yeah. A very sort of medical So it's specific in what we can probe. And it's really great because at where something is happening, of course, is that we and the more detailed the that we're trying to push ahead, right? Because in an ideal world theory can explain everything, right? But for complicated enough questions, theory has to make assumptions. theory has to make assumptions. And especially true for quantum mechanics, if I look at very complex of assumptions to describe And so that this interplay and theory to kind of push each other to develop the theory and make it better and to help us use then these, this sort of basic understanding to for instance, for solar for producing new fuels and things like that, right? So this real world impact understanding that we are reaching. - Yes, we've had, I've had guests on &quot;The Future of Everything&quot; podcast who are doing material science or who are, or electronic, you know, And it's always impressive to me that there is still a very This is not a criticism, but they, the experimental because they don't always So what I'm understanding these measurements will give where they may be able to have before they go into the or what to build to get the - So, this is definitely The field has evolved quite So in the early days, people what an attosecond pulse looks like and to be able to produce But nowadays the community's very brave. So we're looking into medical applications. Terrance Cross as an example, of the techniques developed molecular fingerprinting. So essentially you shine of blood, you record the sort and then from the exact that you record from that you can infer what type - Because there's specific of a, as you said that you These molecules have a And so, and you can detect, okay, let me ask a few questions about that. 'cause now you're getting close to things that I maybe understand fully. One of the things about living systems and blood is it's at room temperature or it's at body temperature, and the molecules are moving around a lot. And you were talking about focusing on, earlier you were saying individual nitrogen. That implies to me that you're to keep these molecules from So is the issue of to freeze everything to Or is room temperature or - So, this is an excellent question because you are already motivated. Why it's interesting to study where there are functioning So ideally we don't want to have to freeze structures out because it will be very particular to that crystalline structure we created. And it might not reflect what we see in the real world, right? - This interview would both of us were frozen. - For sure. Exactly. So that's a good example. And in fact, this is where these x-ray free they can produce. And I have to back up a little So an X-ray free electron starts with the linear accelerator that accelerates electrons, to very high energies. And now we can use these Imagine, you know, this Imagine, you know, this what you have at your doctor's office. It's, first of all, it's with detecting, for instance, to build 3D images instead So when you take an image of your tooth, let's say at the dentist, to see the details, right? When you use laser-like radiation, even I, and I'm not a dentist, right? I can tell what I see because it's social and you get that sort So you get 3D images, and this is sort of the type of radiation we generate just a lot brighter So the pulses we get from we can tune them, we can nowadays generate attosecond light pulses. It's actually something that by Argo Marelli and James Kraine, some scientists at the lab. And with these extremely for instance, illuminate And then take an image, a diffraction image, x-ray diffraction image So one single x-ray illumination gives us the structure. And now imagine in real life, in nature, you don't just have that one structure. You, would need to freeze it out to have that, just that one. You have many different ways how the protein could look depending on the environment and so on. And so what we do at these of these images, so we let the we maybe stimulate some in and then, then this thing folds or it catalyzes something. Yeah, so enzymes or and we are following all So essentially we're of images of all the things that are going on at the same time. And then we can use that what nature is doing. And one of the really exciting things that nature is doing the oxygen that we breathe. Yes. So one of the most investigated, and one of the success stories of these exfils is the It's essentially a system and is using just water and - Somewhat key for life on earth. - Exactly, exactly. And everyone knows that, but the exact way how it's the cycle were in is very complicated, has a couple of steps that people knew about, but they didn't quite know and how it functions in reality. It was really possible that for the first time. So now we have a sort of very of how photosystem two is generating oxygen from breaking up And this is of course amazing because if you, in fact, if as oxygen from water using Not what nature is doing, we electric currents or It would be very, very But nature. - So, so, yep. So we're learning nature and taking movies as it happens. - That's right. - This is &quot;The Future of More with Matthias Kling next. Welcome back to &quot;The I'm Russ Altman and I'm speaking with Professor Matthias Kling In the last segment, of the new capabilities in of light that can control electrons and can make measurements that allow us to see them They're making movies that in this segment, Matthias will how all of this will lead to faster computers and electronics. He'll also tell us what the role of AI and machine learning is So Matthias, I wanted that actually you're an expert in, which is ultra fast electronics. Very early in the conversation that our current electronics are operating at a nano timescale. But you're also been, we've attoseconds for quite a while. Is there a possibility of using that speed for our next generation of electronics? - Yes, thank you for So I'm very passionate the speed of electronics. And one of the ways we to use the waves themselves, the light waves themselves. And that electric field to steer electrons and circuitries. So at the moment, this is done And then you shift electrons around in these, in these wires. And there are typically, its the speed there is And so in fact, the transistors yeah, gigahertz level frequencies. So, they're still operating But we dream about to the attosecond scale, which in frequency space It would be not even terahertz, but the next level, which is petahertz. And so you might wonder Well, there is a limit. Moore's Law is gonna have a limit. And the the limit is So you can't be faster This is a very fundamental law. And essentially as soon as around at almost the speed of light, that's how fast we can go. But we're very, very far away from that. So we're about a million And so we want to use these light waves that actually the attosecond to produce light waves that that are controlled to a minute detail on, on their actual sort of wave nature on the sub cycle evolution. Imagine a light wave that you could draw on the board how the LightWave propagates. And now I really look at how that LightWave And so this principle has 2013 in the first prototype device where they were shining it's a very simple device and then two metal contacts. And with that intense to turn the dielectric into a metal. So it was possible to So it was a change of 10 So this is pretty much - Right? So you go from electrons cannot pass to things can pass, but now it's light. - And now it's really fast because you use the light wave itself to switch it on and off. So, the switching speed we community, we can go to So that's great to make a real transistor because we need to integrate into something that has now a million or a trillion transistors, right? And then make that all work in parallel and of course think about the light source that we would need. And there's many challenges, but it's a field that is in my view, it's exponentially growing. There's more and more And it's also really nice because this is something of vision that you have even if we might never actually we make that sort of light speeds, right, chronic device, there's a that will happen along the way. And, that is sort of the fun of it, right? That as a researcher. - Yeah, I mean you said there's a million, there's an opportunity to but people might be very happy for a little while while Now when you think about, and I know this is far off, but that doesn't stop me When you think about are they going to be very energy efficient or are they likely to be energy consumptive? 'Cause as you know, in people are now thinking but like compute per power requirement because the power requirement that affect, you know, the So I know it's early and I know, but at least theoretically, or are they gonna be - I mean, we all aim to of course produce low There's sort of one way that I can imagine we're getting there and it's essentially to enable quantum computing So at the moment, quantum you don't need a billion transistors, you just you actually with every single qubit And, so it's a very to have a huge sort of computing power in these quantum computers. And quantum computers are having sort of, let's thing that goes into a quantum computer and we need to preserve that wave nature. So, we make these and then we need to preserve that nature. And that is essentially what how we call it, or petahertz we're using that very We're preserving the sort of And since we're investigating all of this at room temperature, we're hoping one day we to maybe not build a billion but to have enough of these nodes to essentially build a quantum computer that could run at room temperature. And then be very energy Because we don't need to cool it down. Imagine if you cool something down to cryogenic temperatures, that you need, in fact, we so we are running the and we have two Kelvin. So we need to cool it down that superconductivity So essentially we can crank up the fields and we can generate these generating a lot of heat. And so this becomes efficient in terms of the electron acceleration process, but it's very inefficient in that cold helium in the first place. And so the same is true for They're all using essentially And this is something that with the community, we could develop either superconductors that would enable us to do so, or advanced light with electronics are just talked about. To do so. - Very exciting and so it's that quantum computing might than a kind of traditional computer because of these considerations and also the power of just Well, in the last couple to ask you about the role 'cause I know it's important in the field and it's popping up in everybody's life. And my understanding is it's - It absolutely is. In program here at Slack, and it's a very it's a growing program that has essentially impact on all of our individual science programs. We're also very strongly with the Stanford community on this and what's happening in Silicon Valley. And so this is extremely there's many applications. The simple ones are, for instance, looking at the lockbox that we create. So when we take experimental that do the experiments, they And this is typically very cryptic and it's difficult, let's say what someone had in mind when they wrote the lock book, right? You can use these large to really help you in what you find in these lock books. And so you can ask instead and wondering what the heck they meant You cannot AI what And I think this can really help us. And that's a very simple application. We have even better ones in some sense. So imagine we have this really, that we use to produce with an injector. And then we have a two mile accelerator. And you know, there's that need to play together. And in the past, we used to have expert operators. The facility runs 24-7 and the very best ones, they could align this machine but you needed a lot of training to do. So nowadays we can use AI to essentially help us So it's a lot faster. We do save money doing so, and we make the machine more efficient and we make it more suitable for all of these applications that we're after. Because the more stable the machine is, the the better data we get. - I find these two because you haven't that I'm sure you're collecting. I mean, of course at the end of the day you've talked about to get the data collection And on the back end, hey, well, five years ago we did something and we didn't think it was that important, but all of a sudden now it and can I use AI to help understand that? So I guess my final to understand what you're observing. You were talking about three-dimensional movies and things like this. Is the AI going to play a role there? And of course we're hoping - Almost certainly. So at the moment, I with the new superconducting to a million pulses per second. So imagine you record images up to a million images per second, and each of these images let's say megabytes, right? So sorry, megapixels, so In fact, it's so much to store it somewhere. But the most important is people come here with their favorite biomolecule and all they want just a structure, right? So, and if we produce it becomes very difficult for you know, go through the data, interpret what they see, and also sort it into this is good data, this maybe is not so interesting. And just storing what's really interesting and analyzing it. And this we can absolutely So this is being used as we speak. We have collaborations with to essentially look at and to send the data and then, so sorry, supercomputer, and then essentially analyze the structure within just minutes. And so we can put a structure of data, and the ML algorithm structure from that Something that a human because it's just too And we have a, we have a sort of first indication is Should we spend more time on Or should we maybe go So these very important to base any photons we're So the faster we can analyze the data and the more comprehensive that we can get out of And, this is just one example, but, but essentially ML is so important these days in machines and in analyzing that I cannot think of a world where, where I would separate the two again. So I do think also that facilities, like the ones we operate they can help the ML AI community because we, we are, we are data producers, so we produce a huge amount of data and they can test essentially the models and the different algorithms applicable to these types of problems. And I think there is a lot to be learned, not just from us on our but I think also on on So the other way around. So where we're essentially and they try different - Well that's great and I think Thank you for this introduction the way it will help and also use and help AI in the analysis of the data across a wide Thanks to Matthias Kling, of Ultrafast Electronics. Thank you for listening into this episode. You know, we have more our back catalog. So you have access to a wide range of discussions on a diversity of topics that will give you a picture Meanwhile, if you're enjoying the show, please consider telling and colleagues about it because that's the best and get feedback about how we're doing. You can connect with me on X @RBAltman or with Stanford Engineering @StanfordENG. (upbeat music)