BEN: Your heart's racing. Obviously, you're hoping that -There's something about the in American history. BEN: The whole time we were story here? What is the story of the hobo? What is a hobo? EMPRESS VAGABOND HOBO LUMP: It's It's hard, like, a hard life. -It's speeding up! Go go go go go go! [APPLAUSE] AARON SMITH: This It's a small town of about central Iowa cornfields. Over the last 112 years, known for one thing-- an annual event called The There's a hobo jungle, a hobo In 1900, Britt was just a newly community in search of The town founders enticed the gathering from Chicago A tradition was born that still hobos to Britt every year HOBO MIKE: I've been traveling as a living since '63. FROG: I started riding trains I'm 62 years old now. WRONG WAY: [LAUGHING] I'm Wrong Way. My nephew gave me that name HOBO SPIKE: I started in 1952, one place to another that's how I survived. AARON SMITH: Most historians the Civil War. Young men from both sides set search of work. By the turn of the century, the the fabric of America. But today, what was once a life seems close We wanted to see what was left hoped we'd find it in Britt. In our minds, there was only one convention-- the We began our journey in Oakland, travel 1,900 miles on the AARON SMITH: These are the maps rail lines all over California, zoom-ins that show you all the can stop in, different crew totally like, pre-iPhone. Now you can totally just But these maps were really for a long time. Before a cohesive network of the train was the fastest way Early hobos learned to ride by other travelers they met along Chris is from Virginia and freight trains around the Our friend Ben lives in San weeks off work and decided BEN: I wasn't sure what I knew it was going to be an exactly what the details the trip would hold. We woke up that morning, hoping But we woke up, got ready, And as more time passed, we we had gotten was probably AARON SMITH: We decided to wait worker spotted us in the yard Bull is an old-time term It's always been a cat and mouse and the bull. Back in the day, bulls had Today, it's a little -We don't really have -A transient, a hobo, vagrant, the rail property-- trespass, hopping -And a tramp, tramp's in -What did they call it? Tramps. I like that. That was back in the day, man. That was back in the day. Tramps, hobos. -When have you seen somebody -A tramp with a bag tied around All right, guys. You know how to get out Don't come back, all right? -Don't come back. AARON SMITH: There seem hopping trains anymore. The hobo seems like It's like a joke, a word We didn't want to go to the Amtrak station with our tails We got out to the next crew Roseville, California. As soon as we got to Roseville, getting ready to take off. Bad decision. A conductor saw us and we got miles outside of town. Uh, we just got pulled -Again. AARON SMITH: Yeah, yeah, it Morale was low. Chris decided to set off on hopped a gambling bus JACKSON FAGER: Now we're in better about our situation, and the next couple hours. AARON SMITH: In the yard, one concern. Finding a rideable Some of the wells on these cubby hole you can weren't seeing anything. The locomotive at the back of unit, seemed like But it's risky. Workers periodically Lucky for us, the train finally got on our way. We're indoors, Amtrak style, and seats, continuing along. We're in the middle For the first 100 miles, highways, no nothing. It was just desert as far It was beautiful. It was amazing to kind of get vast expanses of nature. MEDICINE MAN: Now, everybody is great, and it's part of The hobo life is a very, ADMAN: Sometimes painful, when You're looking around, and BEN: It felt like something out combat mission. We spotted a grain train. We knew that this was our Go go go go go! ADMAN: Riding on a flat car with the [CLICKING NOISE] It's a game that gives you can tell you that. MINNESOTA JIM: Once you the rest your life. You want to keep on the move. ADMAN: We see the world FROG: Always total, absolute HOBO SPIKE: I don't think this great world of ours, from a freight train. AARON SMITH: We were crossing The air was cool, and rose from the water. It was the most undisturbed of us had ever seen. The train forces you to slow All the frustrations and civilization seemed HOBO SPIKE: When you're on the caught, there's no one to tell bed, when to get up, You're on your own for 100%. AARON SMITH: Although we were running out of water fast. After close to 24 hours on the dirty, and dehydrated. Well, our train stopped here It's just a little railroad town Just kind of roamed around and HOBO SPIKE: Then when you get you have to fit into society, at that time. But if you're by yourself, attention to any law. AARON SMITH: So we walked over under now, probably about BEN: Just took a dip After four or five days not AARON SMITH: I'm gonna go BEN: Our days have We haven't gotten It's been a few hours here, a on trains successfully, have, sometimes haven't. We're always on the move trying which is Britt. AARON SMITH: No eastbound trains The sun went down, and we Wyoming landscape. Up to this point, we hadn't seen the trains. At the turn of the century, hobos on the rails. After the Depression, Hobos had organized their own hobo colleges all across Boxcars were crowded But something happened midway Maybe it was American Where there were once millions probably a couple thousand. In my experience, you hardly The next morning, we decided to River yard. -Hey, man. -How about yourself? -We're hitchhiking. -Sorry, man. -Oh, really? -All right, thank you. -OK, man. -Thank you. AARON SMITH: After getting we went back to our original MEDICINE MAN: Today, you don't It's so dangerous, because the chug, chug, chug, and pretty But today, in two minutes, AARON SMITH: Our train stopped we didn't know why. AARON SMITH: An hour went by, Each time you get on a role of the die-- a unique and unpredictable Perhaps that's one to gamble, to relinquish control ourselves to fate and luck. That was one of the faster You kind of had to run alongside yourself up. But we all made it. Really grateful for that. The train out of Green River like it would blaze across the entire time at It was time for a We arrived in Laramie, Wyoming 800 miles to go to We were behind schedule, convention had already started. We got off here in Laramie, so damn slow. Rent a cars were too expensive, take two days, so we ended 12-hour drive ahead of us, and In keeping with the spirit of hitchhikers we saw JOE YOUNG: Hey, what's I'm Joe Young. I've been on the road for about The only way I get around AARON SMITH: We picked This is Alex. He's coming from Colorado. ALEX: How's it going? AARON SMITH: It didn't take us the U-Haul. After six grueling days finally arrived in Brit. We were ready to hang out with stories about our travels -Hello! Happy Hobo Days! -Happy Hobo Days! -What we found instead was a bunch of tourists. BEN: Just a number of tractors, fancy or unusual cars, People-- not hobos. -All aboard! -The hobo convention has gone This wasn't the wild, drunken, brought 1,800 hobos -Well, we're serving mulligan traditional hobo Meat-- we have pork in ours-- flavoring, and pork flavoring, and rice in it, and -Every year for the past 112 a hobo king and queen. -This year, our new And your new king is -It's an important moment for of the hobos are senior The hobo jungle in Britt is a edge of town. It used to be a pretty EMPRESS VAGABOND HOBO LUMP: They bring in like a family and people learning. Because the hobo, you wouldn't old camp, you know People really was kind of tracks or in the bush. It was more like a jungle. AARON SMITH: Today, there's No drinking, no drugs, It's become the kind of place hobos to get away from. Most of the hobos we met were Living an itinerant life for MEDICINE MAN: A modern-day estimation, is getting to the hobos that come together AARON SMITH: The convention former self. The city's turned it There are still plenty young rails for adventure, but those travel around looking for FROG: And it's still there. Though I'm not riding freight I still want to ride. AARON SMITH: Out on the rails, an adventure that was for a lot of people. The train tracks persist on, points into the hidden world. We felt a deep nostalgia for a for the American hobo, fast westbound track. FROG: I have one final ride, and -For the moments of happiness, of disappointments, for to the railroad.