Hey guys! All good? Let's continue our video talking about the 3 main mistakes you make that make your heart sick. In the first video we talked about the 2 mistakes that were: Does the pressure always have to be 12 by 8? That is true? If you haven't seen this video, watch this one first and then go back and watch it, it's very good. After finding out about your blood pressure, whether it really always has to be 12 to 8, we talked about chest pain. Is all chest pain from the heart? We also answered this question in the previous video. Now let's talk about the third error and this is perhaps the most important. Do you know the risk factors that lead to heart attack, that lead to heart failure, that lead to stroke? What can cause all these dreaded cardiovascular diseases? Could it be that you have any of these risk factors and aren't even aware of it? If you want to know in depth everything about what can cause a heart attack and a weak heart, stay with me until the end of the video! my dear, this video is great! Without further ado, run the vignette! Doctor Roberto Yano, Cardiologist. Hello, heartfelt friends! All good? I am Doctor Roberto Yano, Cardiologist, Pacemaker Specialist. Did you know that I serve all of Brazil via telemedicine? Did you know that Clinica Yano is now here in Indaiatuba? So, if you are from Indaiatuba, Sorocaba, Jundiai, Sao Paulo, you can consult with me in person. And for those of you who live further away, you can consult with me via telemedicine, even throughout Brazil. Telemedicine, for those who don't know, is already well established in Brazil and we can provide services to people who live further away, in remote places, who are unable to schedule an appointment with a cardiologist there. So we are available and I will leave the link to schedule here in the description. But let's continue with the video, in which I talk about the 3 main mistakes that patients make and they don't even know they're making. We first talked about the pressure being 12 by 8, if it is always normal to always be 12 by 8. We saw that the pressure, then, is not always 12 by 8. And sometimes it is lower, sometimes it is higher. Then we talked about chest pain. We saw that the minority of times chest pain is from the heart. Now let's talk about the risk factors. What is the third mistake the patient makes that he doesn't even know he's making? It's about not knowing the risk factors. I will call this error, then, the third most common error. It is very common for people to have no idea what the risk factors for heart disease are. I thought everyone knew, but talking to my patients, talking to you here, I saw that this doubt is the doubt of many. &quot;Ah, doctor, but could this help prevent heart disease?&quot; Of course you can, guys! It is essential to know what can cause or worsen heart health. What can actually make your heart weaker? I will teach you in an easy way and you will never forget it. The first thing is to understand what a risk factor is. A risk factor is nothing more than a characteristic, condition or behavior that increases the likelihood of you developing a certain disease. These factors that I am going to talk about, when uncontrolled, of course, will not guarantee that you will develop heart disease with 100% certainty , but it will drastically increase the chance of this happening, if you have any of these factors and if you do not control it properly. proper. We then have non-modifiable and modifiable risk factors. Let's look at the factors that you can't change. It's age, sex, family history, race and ethnicity, genetics. This means that if you are 35 years old, you have less risk of having a heart attack than a 55-year-old person. This cannot change. If you are a 38-year-old man, you are more at risk of having a heart attack than a 38-year-old woman. If someone in your family is hypertensive or diabetic, you can't change that, understand? There is then a greater probability, but it will depend a lot on how you deal with modifiable risk factors. So let's look at them one by one because they are more important and we can modify them in some way. First risk factor: high blood pressure. Here in Brazil, 30% of the adult population has high blood pressure. Being careful with your blood pressure, treating yourself, modifying your lifestyle so that it remains at adequate levels will be essential for you to avoid a heart attack, a stroke and heart failure. When you maintain high levels above 140 mmHg of systolic blood pressure and or 90 mmHg of diastolic blood pressure, you do nothing to lower it, your chance of heart attack and stroke increases exponentially. Imagine that a pressure that was 11 to 7, 12 to 8 in the wall of your arteries, in the wall of your coronary arteries, is now 16 to 10 all the time. What will happen? It will accelerate the process of atherosclerosis, the accumulation of fat into the vessel. This accelerated atherosclerosis process will increase the chance of you having a heart attack or stroke. Now imagine this high blood pressure pushing against the wall of your heart there, overloading your heart. What will happen? The heart will increase in size and by increasing in size it will develop into heart failure, a weak heart. So look at the danger of not controlling your blood pressure very well. Second risk factor: dyslipidemia. Here I include HDL cholesterol, which is good cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, which is bad cholesterol, and triglycerides, which are fats from carbohydrates. If you manage to maintain adequate cholesterol and triglyceride levels, you can reduce the risk of atherosclerosis plaques in your arteries. This reduces your risk of heart disease. Here the scenario is the same, just as high blood pressure accelerates the atherosclerosis process by damaging the endothelium, here in this case this excess of bad fat will also accelerate the atherosclerosis process, because this very fat that is circulating there in excess goes into within the endothelium. Imagine this cholesterol, these excess triglycerides passing through your arteries, it will certainly increase the chance of you having a heart attack or a stroke in the future. So it is extremely important that you keep your levels well controlled. We know that cholesterol is very important for our body, it is raw material for the formation of our cells, for the production of our hormones, but I always talk about excess, excess LDL will be harmful. So maintaining well-controlled levels is essential. Likewise, triglycerides, are they important? They are! Triglycerides are the way our body reserves energy, it is extremely important. It turns out that too much of it is harmful, too much of it can cause pancreatitis, too much of it can accelerate the process of atherosclerosis. So keep an eye out guys, this is very important too. Well, we've already talked about LDL, triglycerides, now talking a little about HDL and cholesterol, this is good cholesterol, it helps to take fat from the arteries back to the liver. So maintaining higher levels, above 40mg/dL, is essential to reduce the formation of fatty plaque in our arteries. Third risk factor: being overweight or obese. Being overweight or obese can also harm you, they are associated with an increased risk of heart disease. When you lose weight, through a balanced diet and exercise, you contribute greatly to the health of your heart. Obese people are at greater risk of becoming hypertensive, having diabetes, having high cholesterol, developing cardiac awareness, and having a heart attack. Look at how, then, everything is interconnected. Obese people are more likely to have high blood pressure, and high blood pressure already causes the damage it does. Obese people are more likely to have diabetes, to have high cholesterol, and to suffer from the consequences that these risk factors bring to our body. The obese person lives in a pro-inflammatory state, with excessive release of cytokines, which also contributes to a weak heart. Some obese people end up having heart failure, sometimes so severe that they even end up needing a heart transplant. Others may suffer a heart attack. It is very important then that you stay at the right weight. Today we even have medications to treat obesity, we have bariatric surgery. In fact, today talking about obesity medications, we have these new medications, I'm going to make a video just about that, but they are the GLP-1 analogues, semaglutide, liraglutide, tirzepatide, the newest one there, Mounjaro. But I always say that medication is of no use if the patient doesn't change their mentality. This has to happen so that weight loss is actually maintained in the long term. So this is another risk factor. If you are in the obesity range, which is when your BMI is above 30, look for a good nutritionist or even a good cardiologist, and they will be able to guide you correctly. The fourth risk factor, and this is very important folks, is diabetes. Diabetes is hell! Don't play with this disease, diabetes kills and kills hard. And worse, it doesn't show any major symptoms until things get really bad. Our organism is intelligent, it adapts. So when symptoms such as weight loss, extreme hunger, extreme thirst, waking up at night to pee appear, it is because things are already advanced. So don't hesitate, you discover that you are diabetic, look for a good endocrinologist or a good cardiologist the next day , keep your glucose levels well controlled. I get tired of seeing people with heart attacks, with the consequences of a stroke, with chronic leg pain, with leg amputations because they didn't control their diabetes properly. So don't hesitate, I always say, a good cardiologist has to know how to treat diabetes as well or even better than an endocrinologist. So if you have diabetes, look for a good cardiologist so you can start treatment. Blood glucose control must be strict, just a few years and diabetes has already clogged your arteries. Just a few years and diabetes has already contributed to the appearance of cancer, because diabetes even causes cancer, you know that? Diabetes is a chronic disease that increases the chance of heart disease and also increases the risk of several types of cancer. So one more thing to keep an eye on. The fifth risk factor, I don't even need to mention it here, is smoking. We know from afar that cigarettes are bad for our health, they're not good for the heart, they're not good for the lungs, they're even bad for those who live with smokers. To give you an idea, passive smokers also suffer from the harmful effects of cigarettes. A study showed that those who live with smokers are twice as likely to die from lung cancer than those who don't. Know this? Furthermore, smoking significantly increases the risk of heart disease. Anyone who manages to stop smoking drastically reduces the risk of having a heart attack, for example. And in the same way, did you know that there is treatment to stop smoking, right? Of course, the first thing is the patient's own will. I always tell my smoker patients, when you want to stop smoking, let me know and we'll start treatment. Then the patient often says: &quot;Ah, doctor, but I want it&quot;. But if I see that it's from the outside, I say: &quot;Calm down, go home, think carefully and when you really want to stop, let me know.&quot; Because there is drug treatment that we can introduce to help you stop smoking. But the first thing is the patient wants it. This will be 90% of the treatment. Sixth risk factor: sedentary lifestyle. So the lack of regular exercise is a risk factor, you can easily change this. You just need to find time and a place to exercise. This will help you maintain your weight, it will help you de-stress, it reduces blood pressure, improves blood glucose levels, reduces cholesterol and triglycerides. Exercising has countless benefits for the body as a whole, and not just for the heart. I honestly can't understand how a person, even knowing all the benefits of doing physical exercise, how can he not do it? Knowing that just because you are sedentary, you have already lost an average of 10 years of life? Is it worth losing all this time in your life? If I were you, I would start moving today, don't leave it for later. Seventh risk factor: unhealthy diet. An unhealthy diet, of course, is also a risk factor. Those who consume a lot of saturated fat, sodium and added sugar may increase their risk of heart disease. When you start eating a balanced and healthy diet, rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean proteins and good quality oils, you help reduce the risk of numerous heart diseases. I have at least 30 videos talking about healthy eating on my channel. After you finish this video, go to YouTube and type &quot;Healthy eating Dr. Roberto Yano&quot;. You will find a lot of good things to watch. Let's go, eighth risk factor: it's stress and anxiety. There are few people who don't feel this way today. Brazil was considered the country with the most anxious people in the world. Unfortunately, we are the champion country in terms of stress and anxiety. We know that chronic stress can cause inflammation in the body, increase the levels of hormones that increase our heart rate and blood pressure, contribute to the atherosclerosis process, and worsen the patient's quality of life and sleep. All of this together, in the long term, will worsen our cardiovascular health. It is therefore important to know relaxation techniques, do physical exercise, as they will also help promote well-being for your mind. There are also several videos of me talking about stress and heart disease. Then you go there and watch them. But did you guys see how important it is to know these risk factors, how important it is to be able to control all of this? Knowing your risk factors, you pay more attention to your health, you try to control each one of them. An example, if you are hypertensive, obese, sedentary, your father died of a heart attack, what are you going to do? You will schedule an appointment with a good cardiologist, have a checkup, start treating risk factors, if you need medication, be open to that too. There is no need to be afraid of medication, when properly indicated they are there to help you, be sure of that. Make a lifestyle change, eat well, exercise. Okay, guys? I hope you liked the video, if you liked it, share it with your friends, family, my idea, I always say, is to save the world and I want to know if you're coming with me or not. It's ok, guys! Today's message is this! A big hug and until next time!