[MUSIC] Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard. In 1999, the American Film Institute compiled its list of the greatest screen legends of classic cinema. They defined a screen legend as an actor or team of actors who had significant screen presence in feature length films, and whose careers began in or before 1950. 500 nominees were voted on to decide the top 25 male and 25 female stars of classic cinema. Join us today as we count down AFI's top 50 screen legends by visiting their final resting places. We kick off our countdown today at Sunset Memorial Park in North Carolina. Here we find the grave of Ava Gardner. She began appearing on film in the early 40s and rose to fame as an actress in the 1946 film The Killers, playing femme fatale Kitty Collins. She became a leading lady in Hollywood in the 50s and 60s with films like The Barefoot Contessa, The Night of the Iguana, and Mogambo, which earned her an Oscar nomination in 1954. Ava Gardner, more beautiful and more exciting than you've ever seen her. You know, this is no Sir Galahad who loves from afar. This is a two-legged boa constrictor. Her later films include Earthquake, and on television she had a recurring role as Ruth Galveston on the soap opera Knott's Landing. Ava spent the final years of her life in London in relative quiet, passing away from pneumonia in 1990 at the age of 67. Some stars on our list today don't have a grave to visit, having been cremated, their ashes either scattered or privately held. Such was the case with the male star at number 25, William Holden, whose ashes were scattered here in the Pacific Ocean after his death. By the 1950s, William Holden had become one of the biggest box office draws. He won the Academy Award for Best Actor for the 1953 film Stalag 17. &quot;Listen, Schultz, you'd better talk, because I'm gonna find out with you without you. I won't let go for a second. They'll have to kill me to stop me, so talk!&quot; He also won an Emmy for his lead role in the miniseries The Blue Knight. You cinephiles know him for his performances in some of classic cinema's most critically acclaimed films, including The Bridge Over the River Kwai, Network, Sabrina, and Boulevard, which earned him his first Oscar nomination. &quot;You're Norma Desmond. You used to be in silent pictures. You used to be big.&quot; &quot;I am big. It's the pictures that got small.&quot; William Holden frequently collaborated with director Billy Wilder, who called him a genuine star. In November 1981, he had not been heard from in several days. His apartment manager let himself in, only to discover the body of William Holden on the floor. According to the LA coroner, William had been intoxicated and slipped and fell, lacerating his head by hitting a bedside table. He had been dead for days. William Holden was 63. According to his wishes, no funeral was held, and his body was cremated, his ashes scattered in the Pacific Ocean. Back to the cemeteries, the female star at number 24 brings us to our first of many visits to Forest Lawn Glendale, in the Gardens of Memory. Here is the grand tomb of Mary Pickford. She was known as America's sweetheart, somewhat ironically as she was Canadian. Don't let her diminutive stature and demure demeanor fool you, however. Mary was a powerhouse in early Hollywood, and helped shape the industry and art of filmmaking as we know it. She began acting on stage as a child before discovering a new art form, the movies. Hesitant at first, Mary quickly found her place in the budding young industry. Not only did she find her place in the movies, she helped define them. Mary quickly realized that acting on film required a different and more nuanced approach to acting on stage. She essentially helped invent acting for film. Her role in her first feature, Tess of the Storm Country in 1914, catapulted her to international stardom, and in the years that followed she became the most famous woman in the world. She was a savvy businesswoman, and leveraged her appeal to negotiate a salary of $10,000 a week by 1916. An unheard of amount for an actor at that time, male or female. She easily transitioned into sound films, winning an Academy Award in 1930 for her performance in Coquette. In 1920 she married Douglas Fairbanks, the reigning King of Hollywood at that time. They became Hollywood's first celebrity hybrid-name couple, Pickfair, which was the name of their Beverly Hills estate, considered the social gathering hub of Hollywood in the 1920s. In 1919 she joined with Charlie Chaplin, Douglas Fairbanks, and D.W. Griffith to form United Artists, which allowed them to bypass the studio system and have control over their projects. One studio head quipped in response, &quot;The inmates are taking over the asylum.&quot; She was also one of the founding members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Mary passed away in 1979 from a cerebral hemorrhage at the age of 87. Eileen Whitfield appropriately titled her biography of Pickford, &quot;The Woman Who Made Hollywood.&quot; The male star at number 24 is one we recently featured in our trip back to New York. So if you saw that video, this mausoleum in Beth-el Cemetery in Queens would be familiar to you. Herein lies Edward G. Robinson, an actor who epitomized the tough guy gangster of Hollywood's golden age. He shot to stardom for his acclaimed performance as the sneering psychotic Rico Bandello in 1931's Little Caesar. His performance set the standard for movie gangsters. &quot;Ernie, you're through. You hired these mugs, they missed, now you're through. If you ain't out of town by tomorrow morning, you won't never leave it except in a pine box. I'm taking over this territory. From now on, it's mine.&quot; Other notable roles include Barton Keyes in Double Indemnity, Dathan in The Ten Commandments, and Johnny Rocco in Key Largo. &quot;You can make your hopes come true, but you gotta die for it. See where I'm aiming? Right at your belly.&quot; Robinson also appeared in dozens of Broadway plays. He died from cancer just weeks after finishing Soylent Green, and just months before receiving an Honorary Academy Award in 1973. Honored for achieving greatness as a player, a patron of the arts, and a dedicated citizen. In sum, a Renaissance man. His eulogy was delivered by Charlton Heston, and his pallbearers included George Burns and Frank Sinatra. Number 23 brings us back to Glendale, and our first of several visits today to Forest Lawn's Great Mausoleum, California's very own Westminster Abbey, adorned with Renaissance inspired statuary and stunning stained glass, including Da Vinci's Last Supper. Let's head into the Sanctuary of Trust to find the queen of screwball comedy, Carole Lombard. By the end of the 1930s, the highest paid and perhaps most popular actress in Hollywood was Carole Lombard. This blonde-haired, blue-eyed, and sometimes foul-mouthed beauty won over the hearts of audiences with her zany and screwball comedic performances, in films like 20th Century, and My Man Godfrey, the latter earning her a Best Actress Oscar nomination. &quot;It's very convenient to take a trip abroad without leaving the kitchen.&quot; &quot;Oh, you have a wonderful sense of humor. I wish I had a sense of humor, but I never can think of the right thing to say until everybody's gone home.&quot; Carole appeared alongside Clark Gable in the 1932 film No Man of Her Own, and the two would eventually marry. They are entombed here side by side. Carole's final film was 1942's To Be or Not to Be, a film she would never see completed. Shortly after the US entered World War II, Carole began volunteering to help with war bond rallies to raise money for the war effort. She helped raise over two million dollars at a drive in her home state of Indiana. Carole had been scheduled to return home to Los Angeles by train, but preferred to fly in order to get home faster. But her mother was afraid of flying, so a coin toss was used to decide their route. Carole won the fateful toss. They would fly home. Shortly after refueling in Las Vegas, the plane crashed into the mountains outside of the city. All aboard were killed, including Carole, who was 33. Clark Gable, waiting for her at the Burbank Airport, chartered a plane and immediately raced to the site to bring her and her mother home. Carole was honored as the first woman to die in the service of her country during the war, and the Liberty Ship SS Carole Lombard was named in her honor. This is the Odd Fellows Cemetery in Delaware, where we find a monument to the male star at number 23, one of Hollywood's tough leading men, Robert Mitchum. From noir films to westerns, he was known to be charming and menacing at once. He rose to prominence with an Oscar-nominated performance in The Story of G.I. Joe in 1945. &quot;The new kids that come up, that's what gets you. The new ones. Some of them have just got little fuzz on their faces. They don't know what it's all about. Scared to death.&quot; He would follow this up with a string of popular films like Out of the Past and Cape Fear. &quot;You just put the law in my hands and I'm gonna break your heart with it.&quot; On television, he played Captain Pug Henry in the miniseries The Winds of War, and War and Remembrance. Robert Mitchum died from lung cancer at age 79, after which he was cremated, his ashes scattered at sea. This marker was later placed here in his memory. Moving on to number 22, we head right back to the Great Mausoleum in Glendale, a little piece of Europe right here in Los Angeles, a majestic and serene oasis in the hustle and bustle of Hollywood. The Sanctuary of Benediction is a high-end little afterlife neighborhood with residents among the who's who of old Hollywood. Like Sid Grauman, Red Skelton, Norma Shearer, Irving Thalberg, and occupying the room near the end on the left is Hollywood's first blonde bombshell, Jean Harlow. In the age of the brunette, Jean glowed on screen with her angelic white hair, a look that would influence future Hollywood stars like Marilyn Monroe. Her blonde bombshell status and portrayal of bad girl roles made her the prominent sex symbol of the era. Her breakout role was in Howard Hughes' 1930 film Hell's Angels. &quot;Would you be shocked if I put on something more comfortable?&quot; &quot;I'll try to survive.&quot; She'd go on to star in films like The Public Enemy and Platinum Blonde, a film originally titled Gallagher but renamed to promote Harlow. &quot;It's nearly six o'clock and you know how long it takes you to dress. But the ambassadors coming at eight and you've got to be ready by the time he gets here.&quot; Jean fell ill in 1937 while filming Saratoga. Initially misdiagnosed as influenza, Jean slipped into a coma and died on June 7th from kidney disease. She was just 26. Her final scenes in Saratoga were completed by a series of doubles. Jean Harlow was buried in a pink dress she had worn on screen, in her hands a note from her lover William Powell which read, &quot;Good night my dearest darling.&quot; Her crypt reads, &quot;Our baby.&quot; Jean's mother is entombed beneath her and the third crypt in the room was rumored to be originally reserved for Powell, but he is buried in Cathedral City, so that crypt may remain forever vacant. Despite being in the film industry for only nine years, Jean Harlow's legacy in the movies remains strong nearly a century later. Our next star doesn't have a grave to visit, but was reportedly cremated here at Westwood Village Memorial Park. The number 22 male star is the legendary Sidney Poitier. He was of Bahamian descent and would be the first black actor to win an Academy Award for Best Actor. As a teenager in New York he would join the American Negro Theater, which led to his breakout role in 1955's Blackboard Jungle. His role in the 1958 film The Defiant Ones would earn him his first Oscar nomination for Best Actor, the first black actor to earn the nomination for a leading role. Years later he would win the coveted gold statue for his role in 1963's Lilies of the Field. &quot;You hold on one minute, you just hold on one minute! I mean I ain't no nun, I'm nobody you can boss around, see?&quot; Poitier split his time between the screen and the stage, acting in the first production of A Raisin in the Sun on Broadway. He would reprise his role for the film version. Other notable films include Porgy and Bess, In the Heat of the Night, and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, one of the early films to portray an interracial marriage in a positive light. Interracial marriage was still illegal in 17 states when the film was being produced. &quot;Mrs. Drayton, I'm medically qualified so I hope you wouldn't think it presumptuous if I say you ought to sit down before you fall down, I mean.&quot; &quot;He thinks you're gonna faint because he's a Negro.&quot; &quot;Well, I don't think I'm going to faint.&quot; In addition to his Oscar Sidney Poitier won two Golden Globes and a Grammy, and was nominated for Emmys and a Tony. In 2009 he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Obama, and he was even named a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth II. Sidney Poitier has been called the Martin Luther King Jr. of the movies, and Hollywood's first African American film star, being the first actor to play black characters in lead roles in major studio films in a non-stereotypical fashion. His representation became a particularly powerful symbol during the Civil Rights era in the 60s. Sidney passed away in Beverly Hills on January 6th, 2022, at the age of 94. He was the last living male star on our list today. There is just one star on this list of 50 who is still alive as of filming. La Bellissima Sophia Loren. The Italian actress was born in Rome and began appearing in film after entering a beauty pageant in 1950. Her first starring role was in 1953's Aida, and her breakout role came in 1954's The Gold of Naples. She became an international star when she began making pictures for Paramount. Perhaps her best-known role today is the one that would earn her the Oscar. In 1960 she starred in the gritty war drama Two Women. &quot;You know what those men did... You know what they had the gall to do in a holy place, under the eyes of the Madonna. Say you know it!&quot; She would become the first actor to win an Oscar for a foreign language film in 1962. A few years later she would be nominated again for Marriage Italian Style. And in 1991 she received an honorary Academy Award for a career rich with memorable performances that has added permanent luster to our art form. And may she continue to do so for many years to come. Back in Los Angeles we are now at Forest Lawn in the Hollywood Hills. In the Court of Valor section we find the great stone face, silent film legend Buster Keaton. Buster began appearing on the vaudeville circuit from a very young age with his family, the Three Keatons, earning the nickname Buster for his ability to take falls and perform stunts without getting injured. His comedic physicality and stunt work combined with his deadpan expression would become his trademark in some of the greatest comedies of the silent era. It's hard to sum up in a few words the magnitude of the effect Buster Keaton's work had on early Hollywood. His influence is still seen in films some 100 years later. Alongside Charlie Chaplin and Harold Lloyd, Buster Keaton is considered one of the greatest comic filmmakers of the silent era. A master of physical comedy, Buster stood out among the rest with his visual gags and practical and dangerous stunts, all of which he actually performed. Buster would not only perform but also write and direct many of his films. His notable films include Steamboat Bill Jr., The Cameraman, Our Hospitality, and the 1926 film The General, which consistently ranks among the greatest comedies ever made. Buster slowly fell away from Hollywood when studio heads wouldn't grant him the creative freedom he had enjoyed during the silent years. But he continued to perform into the 60s, including making appearances in films like Sunset Boulevard and on the Twilight Zone. Buster Keaton was given an honorary academy award in 1959 for his unique talents which brought immortal comedies to the screen. Buster died from lung cancer at the age of 70. For the female star at number 20 on our list, we head back to the gardens of memory at Forest Lawn Glendale. According to Find a Grave, smokey-voiced sultry star of the silver screen, Lauren Bacall, is inurned here in the Columbarium of Eternal Light in the same niche as her husband, Humphrey Bogart. I should note though that there is no concrete evidence that such is actually the case. Not only is her name not here on the niche, she once said in an interview with Dick Cavett that she had no intention of being inurned here with Bogie after her death. &quot;There are two inevitable comic moments as there are in life, at least two. One that the smiling mortician at Forest Lawn was right out of an [?] story.&quot; &quot;Yes. Oh yes.&quot; &quot;And he said there's enough room on the urn...&quot; &quot;No, not on the urn, in the vault where urns full of ashes are kept. There is a plaque outside it. And he said, &quot;Where do you want Mr. Bogart's name? There's room for all of you in here.&quot; &quot;Yes.&quot; And I thought, &quot;Whoops, nope.&quot; I said, &quot;We'll just put his name right in the middle. I'm not going in there. I don't want to go in there.&quot; Sites like Find a Grave are user-edited and are not always 100% accurate. And it's possible that people just really want to believe she's here. So while we will remember Lauren here alongside her husband, we do so with an asterisk. And the disclaimer that it's likely her remains are not actually here. Lauren Bacall made her feature film debut in 1944's To Have and Have Not, alongside her future husband Humphrey Bogart. The on-screen chemistry between the duo was palpable. They would marry the following year and star together in numerous other films, particularly in the film noir genre. These include Dark Passage, Key Largo, and The Big Sleep. &quot;You forgot one thing. Me.&quot; &quot;What's wrong with you?&quot; &quot;Nothing you can't fix.&quot; Lauren would also stretch her romantic comedy wings in films like How to Marry a Millionaire, and the 1996 film The Mirror Has Two Faces, which earned her an Oscar nomination and a Golden Globe. &quot;Now I, inside I feel young, like a kid, that it's just a beginning. I have everything ahead of me. But I don't.&quot; Her final role was providing that iconic voice to an episode of Family Guy. After Humphrey Bogart's death in 1957, Lauren reportedly placed a whistle here in the niche with his urn, which was inscribed, &quot;If you want anything, just whistle.&quot; An allusion to one of their most famous scenes in their first film together. &quot;You know how to whistle, don't you, Steve? You just put your lips together and blow.&quot; So if not here in person, she is at least here in that spirit. Lauren Bacall died on August 12, 2014, in Manhattan after suffering a stroke. She was 89. This is Eden Memorial Park in Mission Hills. The next entry on our list is actually occupied by not an individual, but a team of artists, a troupe of legendary brothers, the Marx Brothers, Groucho, Harpo, and Chico. The Marx Brothers are the only ones in the top 50 featuring a team of actors, but others were nominated, like Laurel and Hardy and The Three Stooges. The brothers got their start performing together on the vaudeville stage in New York in the early 20th century. They were very musical in their origins, but grew to be known for their unique brand of comedy. Each of the brothers developed a unique stage persona with the accompanying name they became known by, Groucho, the quick wit with the greaselick mustache, glasses, and cigar. &quot;Oh, your excellency.&quot; &quot;You're not so bad yourself.&quot; &quot;What morning I shot an elephant in my pajamas. How we got in my pajamas, I don't know.&quot; Harpo, the silent one in a curly wig, the mime and clown, named for his ability to play the harp, and Chico, the charming faux Italian, the crafty con artist, named for his penchant for chasing the chicks. &quot;That's what they call a sanity clause.&quot; &quot;You can't fool me, there ain't no sanity clause.&quot; Two other brothers joined them in their early careers, Gummo and Zeppo, but later focused on the business side, leaving the three eldest brothers as the core contingent of the Marx brothers. By the 20s the brothers were one of America's favorite theatrical acts. This, naturally, led them to films. They made more than a dozen films together, a few of which still rank among the greatest comedies ever made, like Duck Soup and A Night at the Opera. &quot;I am highly gratified with this magnificent display of effusion.&quot; Later in their careers Groucho became a familiar fixture on radio and television, including hosting You Bet Your Life. He died at the age of 86 after a bout of pneumonia. &quot;But I must be going.&quot; To find his brother Chico, we head to the Freedom Mausoleum at Forest Lawn Glendale. As eldest brother he was the unofficial manager of the group for a time, negotiating their deals with the studios. He also melded his proficient piano playing with his comedy. Later in their careers, as they began performing separately, Chico would frequently perform in nightclubs and casinos. He died from arteriosclerosis at the age of 74 and was entombed here. Harpo Marx has no grave. He was cremated at Hollywood Forever, though a portion of his ashes was allegedly sprinkled into the sand trap at the seventh hole at the Rancho Mirage golf course. In contrast to his brothers Harpo's comedy was mainly visual and physical. Never speaking, in the pantomime tradition, frequently using props. He was also a brilliant musician, as his name indicates. He had numerous memorable television appearances, including recreating the famous mirror scene from Duck Soup with Lucille Ball. Harpo died following heart surgery on September 28, 1964, at the age of 75. Number 19 takes us to Culver City, California and Holy Cross Cemetery. Quite a few legends in this grotto area, including one of the most glamorous screen goddesses of the 40s, Rita Hayworth. Born Margarita Cansino, she began her career as a dancer. By the 1940s she had become Hollywood's most glamorous screen actress, and was one of the most popular pin-up girls for servicemen during World War II. Some of her best-known roles were in two of the era's iconic noir films. Her role in the 1946 film Gilda made her a cultural icon. &quot;Gilda, are you decent?&quot; &quot;Me?&quot; [music] The following year she appeared in The Lady from Shanghai with Orson Welles. &quot;After that I knew I couldn't trust him. He was mad. He had to be shot.&quot; &quot;And what about me?&quot; &quot;I love you.&quot; Rita also shone in the Technicolor musical Covergirl. In 1949 she married Prince Ali Khan, making her Hollywood's first bona fide princess. Later in life she suffered from Alzheimer's and became one of the early public faces of the disease, helping to raise awareness. She died from complications of the disease at age 68. Rita's male counterpart at number 19 rests at Westwood Village Memorial Park. Here we find the small cremation marker of Burt Lancaster. He actually began his career as a circus acrobat in the 30s, often performing with partner Nick Cravat. The two would perform together on the screen as well, like in The Crimson Pirate. However, an injury in the late 30s forced him to give up the acrobatic life, and after the war he began pursuing acting on stage and in film. His breakout role was in the 1946 noir The Killers, alongside Ava Gardner. Among his best known roles today is as First Sergeant Warden in the 1953 war drama From Here to Eternity. Burt Lancaster would be nominated for four Academy Awards, one for From Here to Eternity, the others for Atlantic City, Birdman of Alcatraz, and Elmer Gantry, which won him the Oscar. &quot;Elmer Gantry is coming!&quot; Elmer Gantry is an all-American boy. He's interested in money, sex, and religion.&quot; His final film role was as Dr. Moonlight Graham in Field of Dreams. &quot;Win one for me one day, would you boys? Burt Lancaster died after suffering a heart attack at age 80. For number 18 we head north to Palo Alto and Alta Mesa Memorial Park. There are a handful of individuals who have become indelible icons of cinema. Charlie Chaplin's Little Tramp, Marilyn Monroe's Blonde Bombshell, and a bright-eyed, curly-top little girl named Shirley Temple, the quintessential child starlet. In the 1930s she was not only the most popular child star in the world, but also the biggest box office draw. Her bright and cheerful presence on screen was panacea for a weary nation gripped by a Great Depression. At the tender age of six she was awarded a special Juvenile Academy Award. Among her popular films of the era are Bright Eyes, Heidi, and Curly Top. [music] She's also remembered for her dancing duets with Bill &quot;Bojangles&quot; Robinson, in films like The Little Colonel. Shirley made a number of films as a young woman as well, including The Bachelor and The Bobby Soxer alongside Cary Grant. She retired from acting by age 22, but made a brief return to television in 1958, hosting a fairy tale anthology series, Shirley Temple's Storybook. Later in life she had a diplomatic career, representing the U.S. at the United Nations and serving as an ambassador to Ghana and Czechoslovakia. Shirley Temple died from COPD at the age of 85. Our journey takes us now to Indiana and Park Cemetery. Follow the signs here to find the male actor occupying the number 18 spot, James Dean. He's known today as a symbol of teenage disillusionment, embodied in his most celebrated film, Rebel Without a Cause, in 1955. &quot;You're tearing me apart!&quot; &quot;What?&quot; &quot;You, you say one thing, he says another, then everybody changes back again!&quot; He was nominated for two Oscars in his career, both posthumous, for his roles in East of Eden and Giant. &quot;Mother, this is your other son, Aaron. Aaron is everything that's good, Mother.&quot; The untimely death of a young star often has the unintended consequence of cementing the star's legendary status. They do not diminish, nor do they wither, but in the moment in which they shine brightest, are in an instant cut off from us, and we are left with the image of that brightness burned into our minds forever. James Dean grew to love fast cars and racing. In September 1955, Dean was traveling north to a racing event. While traveling along State Road 46, a Ford turned left into his lane. Unable to stop in time, Dean's porche slammed into the passenger side of the Ford, sending his car careening off to the side of the highway, at an intersection now known as James Dean Memorial Junction. His injuries were fatal, passing away at just 24. He was the first actor to receive a posthumous Academy Award nomination for acting, and the only one to receive two. James Dean made the list today despite only appearing in three films with a credited role. Continuing east, we land in Manhattan, New York, and St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church. In the lower level of the church is a small columbarium. Here is the niche of Lillian Gish. She is considered by many film historians as the greatest actress of the silent era. A true pioneer of film, she was dubbed the First Lady of Cinema. Lillian is known for playing characters with a fragile outward appearance, but great inner strength. She played the lead role in some of the silent era's biggest films, like Birth of a Nation, Way Down East, and Intolerance, all directed by D.W. Griffith. In 1920, she became one of the first women to direct a feature film, Remodeling Her Husband, starring her sister, Dorothy. And throughout the 20s, Lillian was one of the most powerful women in Hollywood. The arrival of the talkies didn't slow her career, starring in films like The Night of the Hunter and Duel in the Sun, which earned her an Oscar nomination in 1947. &quot;Oh, I'm so glad you've come to us, darling. Here, let me look at you. Yes, you're Scott's daughter, and now you're ours.&quot; And in 1971, Lillian Gish received an Honorary Academy Award for superlative artistry and for distinguished contribution to the progress of motion pictures. She died just a few months short of her 100th birthday. Back to LA and one of the most star-studded cemeteries around per capita, one will hit several times on this list, Westwood Village Memorial Park. In the same neighborhood as stars like Farrah Fawcett and Karl Malden, we find chiseled leading man of the big screen, Kirk Douglas. Born Issur Daniellovich, Kirk Douglas would embody the square-jawed, tough leading man of the 50s and 60s, and become a true Hollywood icon. He's most often recognized for his title role in the 1960 film Spartacus. &quot;The symbol of the Senate, all the power of Rome. I imagine a god for slaves, and I pray.&quot; &quot;What do you pray for?&quot; &quot;I pray for a son who'll be born free.&quot; Not only did he star as Spartacus, he produced and helped break the Hollywood blacklist by hiring Dalton Trumbo to write the screenplay. Kirk Douglas would earn three Oscar nominations in his career for Champion, The Bad and the Beautiful, and Lust for Life, in which he portrayed Vincent van Gogh. In addition to his numerous Hollywood accolades, Kirk Douglas received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1981 for his goodwill efforts. He died in 2020 at the age of 103. At the time, one of the very last surviving stars of Hollywood's Golden Age. He was the father of actor Michael Douglas. Kirk rests here alongside his wife and son Eric. A swan greets us as we remember the actress at number 16 on the list. We're in Stratford upon Avon in England, a city synonymous with Shakespeare and the theatre. Here in the Royal Shakespeare Company's Swan Gardens is a monument to a lass unparalleld, Vivien Leigh. She was born in British India and began performing in theatre from a young age. By the mid-30s Vivien was appearing in the movies. In 1939 she won the most coveted role in Hollywood, the role for which she would be best known, that of Scarlett O'Hara in Gone with the Wind. The role won her the Oscar. &quot;I'll go home, and I'll think of some way to get him back. After all, tomorrow is another day.&quot; She would go on to win another Oscar for her role as Blanche Dubois in A Streetcar Named Desire. &quot;Well, they told me to take a streetcar named Desire. And then transfer to one called Cemetery, and ride six blocks, and get off at Elysian Fields. She was also well known as a stage performer, bringing to life characters such as Ophelia Juliet and Lady Macbeth. In 1940 she became one half of an acting power couple when she married Laurence Olivier. She suffered from chronic tuberculosis much of her life. The disease would eventually claim her life in 1967 at the age of 53. When her death was announced, the lights of every theatre in central London were extinguished for an hour. After her death Vivian was cremated at Golders Green, her ashes scattered on the lake of her Tickeridge Mill home. This stone was later placed here in her memory. Turning the compass south we make our only visit of the day to Spain, Ronda to be specific. In this ancient cliffside town we find a giant of cinema. On the grounds of this Spanish estate is an old well, in which rest, somewhat fittingly, the ashes of Orson Welles. A master storyteller Orson Welles made his mark on radio, stage and of course in film. In 1938 he scared the bejesus out of the entire country during his radio dramatization of War of the Worlds, which was so realistic some Americans believed they were listening to an actual Martian invasion. His first film was 1941's Citizen Kane, which he co-wrote, produced, directed, and starred in. Many cinephiles and film historians list Citizen Kane as the greatest film ever made. It earned him three Academy Award nominations for Best Actor, Best Director, and Best Screenplay, which he won and shared with Herman Mankiewicz. &quot;Rosebud.&quot; &quot;On the other hand, I am the publisher of The Inquirer. As such it's my duty, and I'll let you in on a little secret: it's also my pleasure.&quot; He directed 12 other features, including The Magnificent Ambersons, The Lady from Shanghai, and Touch of Evil, appearing in many of them himself. And films that he starred in that he didn't direct include The Third Man. &quot;In Switzerland they had brotherly love. They had 500 years of democracy and peace, and what did that produce? The cuckoo clock. So long, Holly.&quot; His final released film, The Other Side of the Wind, spent 48 years in development and was recently released by Netflix in 2018, more than 30 years after his death. Orson Welles is considered by many as one of the greatest filmmakers in Hollywood history, and is the only individual on this list known principally as a director as well as an actor. Orson Welles died in October 1985 after suffering a heart attack. He was 70. Welles had fallen in love with Spain while making films here, and his ashes were placed in this well. Welles's well, some call it, on the estate of a friend, bull fighter Antonio Ordonez. Number 15 brings us back to New York and the Cypress Hills Abbey in Queens. It's a magnificent old mausoleum built around 1926, though it appears to be locked. Maybe we have to ring the doorbell for the occupants to let us in. &quot;Come up and see me sometime.&quot; Yes ma'am, how about right now? Let's come up to the third floor and turn our eyes up to the top row to find the crypt of the sultry queen of one-liners Inuendo and double entendres, Mae West. She was an actress, writer, and comedian whose career entertaining audiences spanned seven decades. She began performing at the age of seven, and by her teens was a professional on the vaudeville circuit. As a young woman, Mae wore her sexuality on her sleeve and began writing her own risque plays, including the 1926 play entitled &quot;Sex.&quot; The play was a success, but it scandalized many viewers and locals for its immorality. Mae was even arrested on an obscenity charge and sentenced to 10 days in a workhouse. The scandal only increased her popularity. Other plays included &quot;The Drag&quot; in 1927, which dealt with homosexuality, and &quot;Diamond Lill&quot; in 1928, a Broadway hit. Hollywood soon came calling, launching her film career at close to 40. She was a box office hit in the early 30s in films like &quot;She Done Him Wrong&quot; and &quot;I'm No Angel.&quot; As her career took off, film censors from the production code were in full force. She continually pushed the limits of censorship with her tawdry one-liners and dodged the censors with naughty double entendres. &quot;When I'm good, I'm very good. But when I'm bad, I'm better.&quot; &quot;I see a man in your life.&quot; &quot;What, only one?&quot; &quot;Oh, you were wonderful tonight.&quot; &quot;I'm always wonderful at night.&quot; &quot;Aren't you forgetting that you're married?&quot; &quot;I'm doing my best.&quot; &quot;I'll never forget you.&quot; &quot;No one ever does.&quot; By the mid-1930s, she was the highest paid woman in America. But the censors began to crack down, so she left film and returned to the stage for a time. When censorship began to end in the 60s, she returned to films, like in Myra Breckenridge. After her death at age 87, a service was held for Mae at Forest Lawn Hollywood, before she was entombed here in New York with her family. Our next star has no grave, so let's visit him at his star on the Walk of Fame. The number 15 male star is the one and only Gene Kelly. He was a dancer, actor, singer, choreographer, and director who made some of the most well-regarded musical films of the 40s and 50s. Some of his most beloved roles include as Jerry in An American in Paris. [music] And Don in Singin' in the Rain. [music] And for his performance in the 1945 film Anchors Aweigh, he was not only nominated for an Academy Award, he also got to dance with Jerry the cartoon mouse. [music] Gene would direct and co-direct films as well, including On the Town, Hello Dolly, and Singin' in the Rain. Kelly is credited with innovating how dance was used in motion pictures, and in 1952 he was given an Honorary Academy Award in appreciation of his versatility as an actor, singer, director, dancer, and specifically for his brilliant achievements in the art of choreography on film. Gene Kelly died on February 2nd 1996 after suffering a stroke at the age of 83. He was cremated, his ashes retained by loved ones. Rolling into number 14 we make our first of two visits today to Chatsworth and Oakwood Memorial Park. Along this narrow section in the vale of memory we find the legendary Ginger Rogers. She was an actress and dancer, perhaps best remembered today for her on-screen pairing with Fred Astaire. Their debut together was in 1933's Flying Down to Rio. The duo danced their way into audiences' hearts and quickly became a sensation. They would go on to star together in nine more musical films, defining and revolutionizing the Hollywood musical for a generation with their iconic dance numbers, to hit music written specifically for them by some of the most popular songwriters of the day. Ginger's talents were perfectly summed up in the reminder that she did everything Fred Astaire did, but backwards and in heels. After Astaire, Ginger branched out into comedies like Monkey Business, and dramas like Kitty Foyle, which earned her an Oscar for Best Actress. &quot;What are you gonna do?&quot; &quot;I'm going to have this baby. I'll call him Tom Foyle after my pop. And by Judas Priest he'll be a fighter too. Hard is a pine knot.&quot; Ginger retired from performing in the 80s and passed away from a heart attack at age 83. She is interred here with her mother Lela, who had a minor career as a screenwriter. Westminster Abbey in London hosts the who's who of English culture, history, art, and politics. In the company of royals like Queen Elizabeth I, composers like Handel, writers like Charles Dickens, and scientists like Isaac Newton and Stephen Hawking, is the number 14 male star on our list, Laurence Olivier. When thinking of truly great actors, a few names spring to mind. Among them, Laurence Olivier, whose ashes rest here beneath these stones. Olivier is considered by many as a high water mark for acting excellence on both stage and screen, particularly in Shakespearean roles. His big break on stage came in the 1935 production of Romeo and Juliet, in which he alternately played Romeo and Mercutio. Subsequently, he would perform in other works of Shakespeare, including Hamlet and Henry V. Having established himself as one of the preeminent interpreters of Shakespeare, it wouldn't be long until he brought those interpretations to film. He both acted in and directed film versions of Henry V, Hamlet, and Richard III. His performance in Hamlet won him the Oscar. &quot;Aye, there's the rub. For in that sleep of death, what dreams may come when we have shuffled off this mortal coil?&quot; He would receive 10 total nominations, including for his roles in Rebecca and Wuthering Heights. Countless other honors and awards were bestowed upon Olivier throughout his life and career. The OM here stands for Order of Merit. He even has an award named after him, the Olivier Awards, the London equivalent of the Tonys. Laurence Olivier was married to another Legend of British stage and screen, Vivien Leigh, and they starred together in a number of films, including Fire Over England. &quot;But we've a right to be happy. Everyone has a right to be happy, Michael.&quot; &quot;Everyone, yes. That is why we can't be.&quot; Olivier died from kidney failure at age 82. Lucky number 13 brings us to the scenic coastal principality of Monaco, along the French Riviera. The actress at number 13 was also a bona fide princess, so we find ourselves at the Cathedral of Monaco. In the majestic halls of this Roman Byzantine cathedral lies Princess Grace, Grace Kelly. She began performing in the early 1950s and soon caught the eye of famed director Alfred Hitchcock. Grace would become one of his favorite leading ladies, starring in some of his best-known films, like To Catch a Thief, &quot;The first thing I noticed about you was...&quot; &quot;Don't sound so pleased with yourself.&quot; &quot;I've never caught a jewel thief before. It's stimulating.&quot; Rear Window, &quot;Lots of wives nag and men hate them and trouble starts, but very, very few of them end up in murder, if that's what you think.&quot; And Dial M for murder. &quot;Do you find the prisoner, Margo Mary Wendis, guilty or not guilty?&quot; In 1955, Grace won the Oscar for Best Actress for her role in the musical drama The Country Girl. &quot;All I want is my own name and a modest job to buy sugar for my coffee.&quot; &quot;Will you listen to me?&quot; &quot;You can't believe that, can you?&quot; She would also be nominated for her role in Mogambo. Her Hollywood career only lasted about six years, making her final film High Society in 1956. This was because at the age of 26, she was wooed away from Hollywood by Prince Rainier of Monaco, whom she had met during the Cannes Film Festival. The two wed in 1956, making her Princess Grace of Monaco. She dedicated the remainder of her life to her duties as princess, establishing a number of charitable and artistic organizations. Grace Kelly died in 1982 from injuries sustained in a car accident. She was 52. Classic Hollywood loved their cowboy heroes, and perhaps none of those heroes rode larger in the saddle than the man who rests here at Pacific View in Corona del Mar. He was known as the Duke. The number 13 male star is John Wayne. Born Marion Morrison, John Wayne was the quintessential western hero in cinema from the 30s through the 70s, a true icon of America's frontier heritage. He was a student and football player at USC when another legendary Hollywood cowboy, Tom Mix, invited him to work as a prop man and extra with director John Ford. He worked his way up from bit parts to smaller roles until his breakthrough in 1939 when he was cast in John Ford's Stagecoach. &quot;Hold it!&quot; &quot;Hey look, it's Ringo!&quot; &quot;Hello Curly. Hiya Buck, how's your folks?&quot; The film was a hit, and it made Wayne into a star. He would continue to shine in numerous cowboy roles like The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, Rio Grande, and The Alamo, as well as military roles like The Longest Day and The Sands of Iwo Jima, which earned him an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor. He won an Oscar years later for his role as Rooster Cogburn in the 1969 film True Grit. &quot;I mean to kill you in one minute Ned, or see you hanged in Fort Smith at Judge Parker's convenience. Which'll it be?&quot; After his death from cancer at the age of 72, the family initially left his grave unmarked, not wanting it to become a shrine or vandalized. Nearly two decades after his death, this simple yet fitting bronze marker was placed featuring scenes from Monument Valley and The Alamo, and the quote &quot;Tomorrow is the most important thing in life. Comes into us at midnight very clean. It's perfect when it arrives and it puts itself in our hands. It hopes we've learned something from yesterday.&quot; Number 12 brings us somewhere we've never been before on this channel, Barbados. Few people on this tiny island in the West Indies may realize that one of classic Hollywood's most beloved actresses rests here among them. In Speightstown is the humble churchyard of St. Peter, where we find the tomb of Claudette Colbert. She was born in France and raised in New York. Young Claudette was studying fashion design when she was offered a small part in a stage play. She caught the acting bug, and within a few years was the toast of Broadway. Hollywood soon came calling, and Claudette began appearing in films in the 20s and 30s. She'd catch the eye of famed filmmaker Cecil B. DeMille, who cast her as a leading lady in films like The Sign of the Cross and Cleopatra. &quot;A most unusual design.&quot; &quot;Well!&quot; &quot;Greetings to Caesar from Egypt.&quot; &quot;A very amusing joke.&quot; Perhaps her best known role was alongside Clark Gable in 1934's It Happened One Night. The role earned her the Oscar for Best Actress. &quot;Oh you're such a smart aleck. Nobody knows anything but you. I'll stop a car and I won't use my thumb.&quot; &quot;What are you going to do?&quot; &quot;It's a system all my own.&quot; Claudette was so convinced she wouldn't win the Oscar, she was already at the train station when her victory was announced, and she had to be convinced to return. Claudette was also nominated for Private Worlds and Since You Went Away. Later in her career she refocused more of her efforts on her first love, the stage, earning a Tony nomination for The Marriage Go Round. She's also remembered for television appearances, including the two Mrs. Grenvilles, her final on-screen role. For many years she divided her time between New York and her vacation home in Barbados. After suffering a stroke she remained here for her final years, passing away at the age of 92. She rests here alongside her husband and mother. Wish we could spend more time here in paradise, but LA beckons us back once again to find the male star at number 12, who happened to be friends with Claudette. Here we visit the Los Angeles Cathedral in downtown LA. In the lower level of the cathedral is the mausoleum, bathed in warm light from colorful stained glass windows. Echoes of organ music trickle down from upstairs as we find our way to the crypt of Gregory Peck, an actor known and loved for often playing heroic and noble figures. Like many on this list Gregory's career began on stage, acting in several Broadway productions before making his way to film. And he didn't waste any time making a strong impression. He was nominated for an Academy Award for just the second film he ever made. 1944's The Keys of the Kingdom. &quot;My question was meant as a question, father. I asked whether God set an exclusive value on creed, since it was such an accident of birth.&quot; Perhaps his best-known role today is that of Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird, the lawyer who defends a black man against false accusations. &quot;In our courts, all men are created equal.&quot; His performance won him the Oscar for Best Actor. Gregory would receive three additional Academy Award nominations throughout his career. Other of his beloved films include Spellbound alongside Ingrid Bergman and Roman Holiday alongside Audrey Hepburn. And you horror fans will recognize him for his role as Robert Thorne in The Omen. A lifetime of humanitarian efforts earned Gregory Peck the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1969. He died in his sleep from pneumonia at age 87, and is entombed here next to his beloved wife Veronique. Our next star made numerous western films and TV shows in the Lone Pine area in California. Her affinity for this place led her to request her ashes be scattered from a helicopter among these scenic hills. So here we remember Barbara Stanwyck, an actress whose career spanned some six decades. She made her debut on the stage as a Ziegfeld girl in the 1920s, and soon began performing in plays. She established herself as a Broadway star in the 1927 hit Burlesque. Barbara began making films in the late 20s when director Frank Capra cast her as the lead in Ladies of Leisure. Her film career took off, and she would rack up four Academy Award nominations as an actress for Stella Dallas, Ball of Fire, Sorry Wrong Number, and Double Indemnity. &quot;No, I never loved you Walter, not you or anybody else. I'm rotten to the heart, I used you, just as you said. That's all you ever meant to me... until a minute ago.&quot; Though she never won a competitive Oscar, she was given an Honorary Academy Award in 1982. For superlative creativity and unique contribution to the art of screen acting. Later in her career she focused more on television. She'd win three Emmy Awards for The Barbara Stanwyck Show, The Thornbirds, and The Big Valley. &quot;Don't give me credit, but I think that reciprocal option idea was, if you will forgive me, absolutely brilliant.&quot; &quot;But not half as brilliant as my idea of sending you through law school so we could save all legal fees.&quot; Barbara Stanwick died on January 20th, 1990 at the age of 82, from heart failure and lung disease. No funeral was held, per her request, and her ashes scattered here in Lone Pine, California. Barbara's male counterpart at number 11 rests at Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary Catholic Cemetery in Southampton on Long Island. Here lies Gary Cooper, an actor who consistently ranked among the most popular screen personalities for decades, often portraying the ideal American hero. He established himself early on as a Western hero, and soon expanded into adventure and drama roles. Gary Cooper would receive five Academy Award nominations for acting, for Mr. Deeds Goes to Town, The Pride of the Yankees, For Whom the Bell Tolls, and he won for Sergeant York and High Noon, perhaps his best known role. &quot;A terror-stricken town left him to face four killers, single-handed, at High Noon.&quot; &quot;Don't try to be a hero. You don't have to be a hero, not for me.&quot; &quot;I'm not trying to be a hero. If you think I like this, you're crazy.&quot; Just weeks before he died, Gary Cooper was also given an honorary Academy Award for his many memorable screen performances, and the international recognition he, as an individual, has gained for the motion picture industry. He died from cancer in 1961 at the age of 60. He was originally laid to rest in the grotto area of Holy Cross in Culver City, California. But years later, in 1974, his family had his remains exhumed, and moved to their final resting place in New York. We've reached the top ten. The Supergiant Stars, the Immortals. Can you guess the legends who remain on this list? Our female star who ushers in the top ten brings us to Hartsdale, New York. Gilded doors welcome us into the Ferncliff Mausoleum. Herein we find the crypt of Joan Crawford. She was launched to stardom near the end of the silent era, in 1928's Our Dancing Daughters. With her bright expressive eyes and femininity, she became a symbol of style in the late 20s, Hollywood's new flapper. By the 30s, she'd become one of the silver screen's biggest stars in films like Grand Hotel and The Women. Her career slowed by the 40s until she landed the role of a lifetime in the 1945 noir film, Mildred Pierce. The role earned her the Oscar. You knew when you gave that uniform to Lottie that it was mine, didn't you? Your uniform? Yes, I'm waiting tables in a downtown restaurant. My mother, a waitress. I took the only job I could get so you and your sister could eat and have a place to sleep and some clothes on your back. The night of the awards, Joan stayed home in bed, claiming to be too ill to attend. When she won, she invited the press into her room and accepted the Oscar in bed. Joan was also nominated for Possessed and Sudden Fear. Years later, she would star alongside longtime rival Bette Davis in Whatever Happened to Baby Jane, both women delivering riveting and disturbing performances. Jane, I'm just trying to explain to you how things really are. You wouldn't be able to do these awful things to me if I weren't still in this chair! Among her final performances was an appearance on Rod Serling's Night Gallery in 1969. Joan was married to Alfred Steele, CEO of Pepsi. After his death, she was named to the board of directors of Pepsi. She died from a heart attack in 1977 at the age of, well, 70-something. Her actual birth year seems to be in dispute. After all, a star never reveals her age. From New York, we cross the globe to the Lake Geneva area in Switzerland. Keep your eyes peeled as you make your way through this charming Swiss town for clues as to who the number 10 male star is. For the clues are myriad. Does the bowler hat and bamboo cane give it away? You know who he is. The legendary Charlie Chaplin. Perhaps no name, and no character, his little tramp, have come to symbolize classic cinema more than that of Charlie Chaplin. We're now at the Cimetiere de Coursier-sur-Vevey, where Chaplin is laid to rest. Charlie was born in England, and began performing early, touring music halls, learning music and acting. By his late teens he found himself in America, where he would begin to appear in silent comedies for Keystone Studios. It was here that he developed his tramp persona. The hobo with a bowler cap, too-small jacket, too-large pants, a toothbrush mustache, and a bamboo cane. Chaplin's tramp first appeared in 1914's Mabel's strange predicament alongside Mabel Norman. This character would spring Chaplin into worldwide popularity, appearing in dozens of films as the endearing tramp. As his popularity grew, Chaplin would write, direct, and produce his own films. He would even co-found United Artists to distribute his films. Among them are beloved classic titles like The Kid and Modern Times, which was made as a silent well after the dawn of the talkies. Chaplin's first true sound film came in the form of 1940's The Great Dictator, which satirized and condemned Hitler and fascism. It's considered among the greatest films of all time. &quot;Let us fight for a world of reason, a world where science and progress will lead to all men's happiness.&quot; In addition to producing and starring in his own films, Chaplin was also a talented musician, and wrote the musical scores for many of his films. You may be surprised to know that the only competitive Oscar that he won was for his music for the film Limelight. In 1972, just a few years before his death, Charlie Chaplin was awarded an honorary academy award for his incalculable effect on motion pictures. The ceremony, in which he received a 12-minute standing ovation, was a warm homecoming of sorts for Chaplin, who in the late 40s, early 50s, had essentially been banned from the United States because of the Red Scare, when he was falsely accused of being a communist. It was then that he settled here in Switzerland with his wife, Oona. He died after suffering a stroke at age 88. I was so awestruck being here at the grave of Charlie Chaplin in beautiful Switzerland. The rain didn't even faze me. We're in Berlin for number nine, to find the greatest screen legend to come out of Germany, Marlene Dietrich. She got her start entertaining in Germany's cabaret scene in the 1920s. This led to her breakout role in Joseph von Sternberg's 1930 film The Blue Angel. &quot;Falling in love again, never wanted to, what am I to do? Can't help it.&quot; Marlene then moved to Hollywood and began making films here, establishing herself as an exotic femme fatale. She'd again play a cabaret girl in 1931's Morocco alongside Gary Cooper, a role which earned her an Oscar nomination. &quot;May I have this?&quot; &quot;Of course.&quot; Marlene continued to star in some of classic Hollywood's most notable films, including Shanghai Express, Witness for the Prosecution, Touch of Evil, Destry Rides Again, and Judgment at Nuremberg. &quot;I wish you understood German. The words are very beautiful.&quot; During the war, she entertained troops for the Allied effort and supported humanitarian causes. She would become an American citizen, and in 1947 was awarded the Medal of Freedom for her strong stance against Nazism during the war. From the 50s to the 70s, Marlene performed extensively on the stage as a cabaret artist, often appearing in her iconic top hat and coat tails. She spent her final years in relative seclusion in Paris, where she died from kidney failure at age 90. At her request, she was laid to rest here with family near where she was born. The inscription on her marker translates as &quot;Here I am standing at the border stones of my days.&quot; The number nine male star brings us a little closer to home. Back to Glendale. Here in the Garden of Everlasting Peace, we find the grave of Spencer Tracy, lauded by his peers and contemporaries as the screen's strongest actor. He was the strong but unconventional everyman, lauded for the naturalness of his performances. He worked on stage for many years in the 1920s before making his first films in 1930. He would make close to 80 films over the next 37 years. Spencer Tracy is tied with Laurence Olivier for the most Academy Award nominations for an actor in a leading role, nine in total. He would win for Captain's Courageous &quot;Get on my way.&quot; &quot; Jack. You touch that kid, I tear you apart, see?&quot; And Boys Town, the first to win two consecutive Best Actor Oscars. &quot;There. That's better. I'm Father Flanagan. I saw your brother Joe just a little while ago. We had a long talk about you, Whitey. Joe wants you to come to Boys Town with me.&quot; Other notable films include Judgment at Nuremberg and his final film Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, which earned him a posthumous nomination. &quot;Because in the final analysis, it doesn't matter damn what we think. The only thing that matters is what they feel and how much they feel for each other.&quot; Spencer Tracy is also remembered for his frequent collaboration and long-term relationship with Katharine Hepburn. They would star in nine films together, beginning with 1942's Woman of the Year. He spent his final years in ill health, tended to by Hepburn. She was with him when he passed away from a heart attack on June 10th, 1967, at the age of 67. Number eight brings us to our first, and believe it or not, only visit to a grave at Hollywood Forever Cemetery on this list. One of the biggest names here rests in a pavilion named after her. Here in lies the one and only Judy Garland. She began her career in vaudeville, performing with her sisters as the Gumm sisters. By the time she was 13, she had a contract at MGM and began making movies, mainly musicals, to showcase her incredible voice. She found a popular pairing with Mickey Rooney in films like Babes in Arms and Love Finds Andy Hardy. A few years later she landed the role that would make her a legend, playing Dorothy in The Wizard of Oz. &quot;There's no place like home&quot; Over the Rainbow is considered by many as the greatest film song of all time, and became one of her signature tunes. Other of her notable films include Meet Me in St. Louis, and A Star is Born, which earned her an Oscar nomination. &quot;You don't know what it's like to see somebody you love crumble away in front of your eyes bit by bit, day by day.&quot; Judy earned a second nomination for her role in Judgment at Nuremberg. She delighted audiences on stage as well as on screen, receiving a special Tony Award in 1952 for her Palace Theatre engagement, and her 1961 recording of Judy at Carnegie Hall won her the Grammy Award for Album of the Year. She was truly one of Hollywood's brightest stars, who burned out far too soon. While in London in 1969 she was found dead of an accidental overdose of secondol at the age of 47. She was originally entombed at Ferncliff Cemetery in New York, the same mausoleum where Joan Crawford is. But in early 2017, nearly 50 years later, her family had her body relocated here to Hollywood Forever, so the family could be together. Her epitaph reads, &quot;I'll come to you smiling through the years,&quot; lyrics from one of her popular songs, Through the Years. [music] The male star at number eight impressed us with his range on screen. From ruthless tough guys and mobsters to song and dance men, Hollywood will always remember James Cagney, who rests here at Gate of Heaven in Westchester County, New York. Early in his career, Cagney was known for his tough guy, gangster roles, shooting to stardom in the 1931 film The Public Enemy. Along with the likes of Edward G. Robinson, Humphrey Bogart, and George Raft, James Cagney would come to define the movie gangster. &quot;Come out and take it, you dirty yellow-bellied rat about. Give it to you through the door.&quot; His role in Angels with Dirty Faces would earn him an Oscar nomination. &quot;Morning gentlemen. Nice day for murder.&quot; &quot;Where's Frazier?&quot; &quot;Where's that hundred grand?&quot; And White Heat is considered one of the greatest gangster movies of all time. &quot;Made it Ma!! Top of the world!&quot; So after cementing himself as a gangster, audiences were surprised and delighted to discover that Cagney could sing and dance. Quite adroitly at that. In 1942 he portrayed George M. Cohan in the biopic Yankee Doodle Dandy. The role earned him the Oscar and is considered by many to have been his best. [music] Other notable films include Love Me or Leave Me, which earned him another Oscar nomination, and his final film role which he came out of retirement for in 1981's Ragtime. James Cagney died of a heart attack at age 86. We're back at the aptly named Great Mausoleum, where the dead rest in peace and gothic majesty. Walking down the main corridor in from the Memorial Terrace entrance, we're welcomed with open arms by the In Memoria statue, which marks the final resting place of one of the most glamorous stars of Hollywood's Golden Age, Dame Elizabeth Taylor. She was born in London to American parents, and the family returned to live in LA before the outbreak of the war. Young Elizabeth began auditioning for movies in the early 40s. She landed her first starring role at the age of 12 in the 1944 film National Velvet. &quot;I want to be a famous rider, I should like to hunt.&quot; The film was a hit and launched Elizabeth into Hollywood's next up-and-coming starlet. Films like Life with Father and Little Women followed. Graduating to more adult roles, she starred alongside James Dean in Giant in 1956, and would receive her first of five Academy Award nominations for Rain Tree Country in 1958, and Cat on a Hot Tin Roof in 1959. &quot;I feel all the time like a cat on a hot tin roof.&quot; By the 60s she was Hollywood's highest paid actress, receiving two more consecutive Academy Award nominations for Suddenly Last Summer and Butterfield 8, for which she won her first Oscar. Her second Oscar would come for 1966's Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf. &quot;Virginia Woolf. Who's afraid of Virginia...?&quot; Elizabeth Taylor is also remembered for her tumultuous love life, most notably her relationship with fellow thespian Richard Burton, with whom she shared much memorable screen time in films like Taming of the Shrew and the historical epic Cleopatra. &quot;Remember. Remember. They want you to forget me, Please.&quot; &quot;Forget? How? I can never be more far away from you than this.&quot; Later in life, Elizabeth also dedicated herself to philanthropic causes, including being one of the early famous figures to take part in HIV AIDS activism. Liz died from heart failure in 2011 at age 79. At her request, her funeral ceremony started 15 minutes behind schedule, as she wanted to be late even for her own funeral. To find Elizabeth's male counterpart at number seven, we head just around the corner, back to the Sanctuary of Trust, to find the man known as the King of Hollywood, Clark Gable, an actor who embodied the debonair leading man in Hollywood for decades. He began landing small roles in films during the silent era, and was also appearing on the Broadway and LA stage. In those early years, studio executives balked at the idea of Clark being a leading man, saying his ears were too big and he looked like an ape. How wrong they were. His star continued to rise as he appeared alongside leading ladies like Jean Harlow in films like Red Dust and Saratoga. He cemented himself as a bona fide star for the film It Happened One Night, alongside Claudette Colbert in 1934. The role won him the Oscar. &quot;You'll never get away with it, Miss Andrews.&quot; &quot;What are you talking about?&quot; &quot;I said you'd never get away with it. Your father will stop you before you get halfway to New York.&quot; He would receive his second nomination the following year for Mutiny on the Bounty. Then in 1939 he landed the role that would make him immortal. The most coveted role in Hollywood at that time, that of Rhett Butler, in Gone with the Wind. &quot;If you go, where shall I go, what shall I do?&quot; &quot;Frankly my dear, I don't give a damn.&quot; The role earned him his third nomination and established him as the King of Hollywood. After his wife Carole's untimely death in 1942, Clark withdrew from acting and enlisted in the army to honor his wife's efforts to support the war. After flying several combat missions over Germany and earning numerous distinctions, including the Distinguished Flying Cross, he returned to filmmaking. During this era he'd star in films like Mogambo, and his final film The Misfits, alongside Marilyn Monroe and Montgomery Clift. &quot;I don't feel that way about you, Gay.&quot; &quot;Well, don't get discouraged girl, you might.&quot; By this time Clark was experiencing heart problems. He was 59 when he died from a heart attack on November 16th, 1960. Clark Gable and our next star actually starred in both their respective final films together. The Misfits, a tragic serendipity given that he had been her childhood screen idol. We've featured her more than any other star on this channel. She is the immortal symbol of classic Hollywood glamour, but also one of its most tragic figures. Here at Westwood Village Memorial Park we remember once again the legendary Marilyn Monroe. Her career as a model began after being discovered working in a factory during World War II. A film career soon followed and she chose the stage name Marilyn Monroe after Broadway star Marilyn Miller and her mother's maiden name Monroe. After a few bit parts in films her breakout came in the early 1950s with roles in All About Eve, &quot;Why do they always look like unhappy rabbits?&quot; &quot;Because that's what they are. Now go and make him happy.&quot; And John Houston's noir classic The Asphalt Jungle. Her role may have been small, but they gave her the best line in the movie. &quot;Haven't you bothered me enough you big banana head?&quot; She quickly rose in popularity in the years that followed. In 1953 her roles in Niagara and Gentlemen Prefer Blondes would make her Hollywood's biggest star. &quot;These rocks don't lose their shape. Diamonds are a girl's best friend.&quot; Her soft breathy voice, blonde locks, and curvaceous figure made her the quintessential symbol of the 50s. But this led to typecasting as the &quot;dumb blonde&quot; in films like The Seven Year Itch, &quot;Ooo, do you feel the breeze from the subway? Isn't it delicious?&quot; And How to Marry a Millionaire. &quot;You've got the most peculiar vision I ever saw.&quot; &quot;Why do you say that?&quot; &quot;Because you're reading that book upside down.&quot; But Marilyn began to grow tired of the dumb blonde bombshell she had come to be known for. Despite this on-screen persona, she was very intelligent, well-read, and regarded by many as being a great actress, not just a movie star. She enrolled in the famed actor's studio in New York to broaden her range and worked towards more serious dramatic roles. She returned to Hollywood in 1958 to star in Some Like It Hot, a role which earned her a Golden Globe for Best Actress. &quot;Goodnight, Sugar!&quot; &quot;Goodnight, honey!&quot; Her final film was The Misfits, written for her by her husband Arthur Miller, a valentine to provide her with a dramatic role. &quot;How do you find your way back in the dark?&quot; &quot;Just head for that big star straight on. The highway is under it. It'll take us right home.&quot; But on the morning of August 5th, 1962, Marilyn was found dead of a drug overdose the night before in her Brentwood home. She was 36. Marilyn Monroe has since remained one of Hollywood's greatest icons, a larger-than-life figure that embodied the glamour of Hollywood. But she was also Norma Jean, a girl few people really knew. Hiding behind the blonde locks and effervescent smile of her manufactured persona, a girl who faced struggles many of us could never understand, and being gone so young, we're left here with the haunting thoughts of what might have been. Marilyn shares the number six spot with another actor who has no grave, Henry Fonda. The actor of stage and screen is remembered for his frequent portrayals of the everyman, fighting to rise against all odds. He honed his skills on Broadway before breaking into the movies in the 1930s. He first gained recognition in 1935's The Farmer Takes a Wife, and later starred opposite Bette Davis in Jezebel, and played Abraham Lincoln in Young Mr. Lincoln. But it was his role as Tom Joad in The Grapes of Wrath that catapulted him into stardom, earning him his first Academy Award nomination. &quot;Well, maybe it's like Casey says, a fella ain't got a soul of his own, just a little piece of a big soul.&quot; After serving in the Navy during the war, Fonda often found himself in military roles, including the title role in Mr. Roberts, which he played both on stage and screen. &quot;Tonight, I don't understand you, Captain. What do you think I did tonight?&quot; &quot;You know what you did!&quot; In 1957 he would star in and produce the film 12 Angry Men, in which he played the lone dissenting juror in a trial in which the defendant turned out to be innocent. &quot;You want to see this boy die because you personally want it, not because of the facts. You're a sadist.&quot; The film ranks among one of the greatest and most important films ever made, and earned him an Oscar nomination for Best Picture. In 1968 he deviated from his usual good guy roles to play the villain in one of my favorite movies, Once Upon a Time in the West. Henry Fonda continued to perform into the 1980s, finally winning the Oscar for his role in one of his very last films, On Golden Pond, with Katharine Hepburn. He died the following year on August 12th, 1982 from heart disease at the age of 77. Per his request, no funeral was held, and his body was cremated. &quot;We've reached the top five, which takes us on a trip to the other side of the world, to beautiful Stockholm, Sweden. We're at a cemetery, you'll forgive me if I don't try to pronounce, but the name translates as the &quot;Woodland Cemetery.&quot; Appropriately named as a meditative stroll through this cemetery is truly a passage through a quiet Nordic woodland, precisely where our next star would want to be. Here rests one of the great screen legends to come out of Sweden, Greta Garbo. She began appearing in silent films in Sweden in the early 20s. Her role in the Saga of Gosta Berling caught the eye of MGM exec Louis B. Mayer, who brought her to Hollywood. In the years that followed, Greta Garbo would become MGM's biggest star. Her performance in 1926's Flesh and the Devil made her an international star. Her transition into the talkies became itself a marketing point with the tagline &quot;Garbo Talks&quot; for the 1930 film Anna Christie, in which audiences first heard that rich low voice. &quot;Give me a whiskey, ginger ale on the side. And don't be stingy, baby.&quot; The film earned her an Oscar nomination for one of two films that year, the other for Romance. Other notable films include Anna Karenina, Grand Hotel, Mata Hari, Ninotchka, and Camille, the latter two earning her two additional Oscar nominations. &quot;I could kill you for this.&quot; &quot;I'm not worth killing, Armand. I've loved you as much as I could love. If that wasn't enough, I'm not to blame.&quot; But after making Two-Faced Woman in 1941, Greta Garbo retired from the screen and became famously reclusive for the remainder of her life. &quot;I want to be alone. I just want to be alone.&quot; In 1955 she was given an Honorary Academy Award for her unforgettable screen performances, though she was not present at the ceremony. Greta Garbo died on April 15th, 1990 at the age of 84 as a result of pneumonia and renal failure. She was cremated in New York where she had been living. Nine years later her family decided on this serene spot in her homeland to lay her to rest. We're back at Oakwood Cemetery in Chatsworth, where the big screen's favorite duo that sang and danced together, also rest together in these same grounds. Here lies the one and only Fred Astaire. He could sing, he could act, but to this day he's best remembered and regarded for his dancing, particularly with on-screen partner Ginger Rogers, who we visited earlier. They starred together in 10 films and are considered classic Hollywood's greatest on-screen dance pairing. But before there was Fred and Ginger, there was Fred and Adele, his sister. Fred Astaire began performing on the vaudeville circuit as a child in the early 1900s, singing and dancing with his older sister Adele, soon becoming a hit on the Broadway stage as well. He became world-renowned particularly for his tap dance skills. Fred and Adele split in 1932, opening the door for him to find a new partner. He was first paired up with Ginger Rogers in 1933's Flying Down to Rio. They'd go on to appear in 10 films together, many of the biggest romantic musicals of the era, like The Gay Divorcee, Top Hat, Swing Time, and more. [music] He shone plenty bright outside of the Fred and Ginger partnership as well, in films like Funny Face with Audrey Hepburn, Daddy Long Legs with Leslie Caron, [music] And memorably danced on the ceiling in Royal Wedding. [music] He even flexed his acting muscles in heavier roles, like the disaster flick The Towering Inferno, which earned him an Oscar nomination. Like Gene Kelly, who we featured earlier, Fred is credited with innovating how dance was used and presented in feature films. He received an honorary Academy Award in 1950 for his unique artistry and his contributions to the technique of musical pictures. And for you modern-day film nerds, Fred Astaire was the first star added to IMDb. He died from pneumonia at the age of 88. If you were starting to miss beautiful Sweden, good news. We're back again for number four, which brings us to a cemetery that translates as the Northern Burial Place in the Stockholm area. If you know your Hollywood history, you already know who we're here to find. Here's looking at you, Ingrid Bergman. Her place at number four is no surprise, as she's one of the most influential and awarded screen figures in the history of cinema. She began appearing in Swedish and German films in the 1930s. Her introduction to American audiences came in the form of 1939's Intermezzo. She had played the role in the original Swedish version of the film in 1936. Just a few years later she would star in one of classic Hollywood's most beloved films, as Ilse in Casablanca, alongside Humphrey Bogart. &quot;Play it Sam. Play &quot;As Time Goes By.&quot; She quickly rose in the ranks to become one of the most acclaimed actresses of the era. She received her first of seven Academy Award nominations in 1944 for the film For Whom the Bell Tolls. She would go on to win three acting Oscars. These were for the films Gaslight, &quot;I wasn't hitting liquor. He said I was going out of my mind.&quot; &quot;You're not going out of your mind. You're slowly and systematically being driven out of your mind.&quot; &quot;But why? Why!?&quot; Anastasia, &quot;I want to be me. Whoever I am, I want to be me. I want someone to tell me, someone to accept me.&quot; and Murder on the Orient Express. &quot;Thou shall not kill.&quot; &quot;Ingrid Bergman.&quot; Other memorable films include Hitchcock's Spellbound and Notorious. Ingrid brought her talents to the stage and television as well, winning a Tony for the play Joan of Lorraine, and Emmy Awards for TV movies The Turn of the Screw and A Woman Called Golda. Ingrid was 67 when she died from complications of breast cancer. She was cremated, a portion of her ashes scattered off the coast of Sweden. The rest interred here with her family. Our male star at number four has no grave. His ashes scattered between two places meaningful to him. So we'll remember Marlon Brando, both here in Tahiti and in Death Valley. Marlon Brando was the man every young aspiring actor looked up to and wanted to be like in the 1950s. He was one of the first actors to employ what we know as method acting. Marlon earned acclaim for one of his very first appearances on film, playing Stanley Kowalski in a street car named Desire, a role he had played to acclaim on stage. &quot;HEY STELLA!&quot; It would be his first of eight Academy Award nominations. A few years later came On the Waterfront, which won him both the Oscar and a Golden Globe for his Tour de Force performance. &quot;You don't understand. I could have had class. I could have been a contender. I could have been somebody instead of a bum.&quot; Despite these successes, his career declined somewhat in the 60s, until the role of a lifetime came along, the one for which many today know him best. For the role of the godfather, Francis Ford Coppola wanted the best actor in the world. That came down to Laurence Olivier or Marlon Brando. Coppola had to fight hard to convince studio heads that Brando was the right man for the part. And aren't we glad he did? It's impossible to imagine anyone other than Marlon Brando playing Vito Corleone in The Godfather. &quot;We've known each other many years, but this is the first time you ever came to me for counsel and for help. I can't remember the last time that you invited me to your house for a cup of coffee.&quot; His gentle and reverent approach, the polar opposite of the maniacal movie gangsters of previous generations. The role won him his second Oscar. More memorable roles would follow, including in Apocalypse Now, The Island of Dr. Moreau, Last Tango in Paris, and playing Superman's father, Jor-El. On July 1, 2004, Marlon Brando died from respiratory and heart failure at the age of 80. His ashes were scattered partly in Tahiti, where he owned land and sometimes lived, and partly in Death Valley. Number three brings us back to the quiet Swiss town of Tolochenaz. This is Tolochenaz Cemetery, a humble little cemetery in the countryside, with barely more than 100 graves. If you look carefully, among the names you'll see here is one of the most famous in the world. She was an actress, a fashion icon, and a humanitarian. She personified grace, beauty, and goodness. She was the one and only Audrey Hepburn. She was born in Belgium, and from a young age began to perform on stage as an actress in musical theater. Her big break came in William Wyler was looking for an unknown to play Princess Anne in Roman Holiday. &quot;I could do some things I've always wanted to.&quot; &quot;Like what?&quot; &quot;Oh you can't imagine. I'd like to do just whatever I like, the whole day long.&quot; Her talent did not go unnoticed by the film world. She won an Oscar for the role. She was nominated an additional four times for her roles in those timeless classics Sabrina, The Nun's Story, Wait Until Dark, and what is perhaps her most iconic role as Holly Golightly in Breakfast at Tiffany's. &quot;Who are always people, anyhow?&quot; &quot;Who knows? The word gets out. You don't mind who, darling?&quot; She's also remembered for playing Eliza Doolittle in My Fair Lady. &quot;The rain in Spain stays mainly in the plain.&quot; And on stage she won a Tony Award for her role in the play Ondine. She's one of only a handful of entertainers to have won the coveted EGOT, and Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony. Audrey only had around 30 credits to her name, having dedicated much of her life and time also to being a wife and mother. She also devoted much of her time to UNICEF, an organization focused on providing humanitarian aid to children around the world, particularly in the poorest countries. For her work as a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador, she was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom. The house Audrey lived in for 30 years is just down the street. It was known as La Paisible, which means &quot;peaceful.&quot; Peace is exactly what Audrey Hepburn found here in Tolochenaz, balancing fame and family, glamour and charity. In 1992 Audrey Hepburn was diagnosed with cancer. She died in her sleep on January 20th, 1993, at the age of 63. Back to Forest Lawn Glendale. Just up the hill from the Wee Kirk O' the Heather Church, we find the grave of our number three male star, Jimmy Stewart. The beloved actor is known for his distinctive drawl and championing the down-to-earth everyman on screen. In a career that spanned more than 60 years, he appeared in around 100 film and TV productions. After getting his start on the stage, he began making films in the 1930s. He rose to fame in films like You Can't Take It With You and Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, which earned him his first of five Academy Award nominations. &quot;Because I wouldn't give you two cents for all your fancy rules, if behind them they didn't have a little bit of plain ordinary everyday kindness. And a little looking out for the other fella too.&quot; The following year he would win the Oscar for The Philadelphia Story. Like many of his contemporaries, he would join the war efforts, enlisting in the Air Force, eventually rising to the rank of Brigadier General and receiving numerous honors, including the Distinguished Flying Cross. Perhaps his most beloved role today came shortly after the war, playing George Bailey in the perennial Christmas classic It's a Wonderful Life. The role earned him his third Oscar nomination. &quot;What is it you want, Mary? What do you want? You want the moon? Just say the word and I'll throw a lasso around and pull it down.&quot; Two more nominations would follow for Harvey and Anatomy of a Murder. Stewart was also a favorite actor of Alfred Hitchcock, starring in his films Rope, Rear Window, The Man Who Knew Too Much, and Vertigo. And that distinctive drawl was perfect for western films like The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance. For his final role he voiced the lovable Wylie in An American Tail: Fievel Goes West. &quot;Just, just remember, Fievel. One man's sunset is another man's dawn.&quot; Jimmy Stewart passed away in 1997 from a heart attack caused by a pulmonary embolism. He was 89. He rests here next to his beloved wife Gloria, forever overlooking Hollywood off in the distance. It should come as no surprise to you that the very first famous grave we ever visited on this channel comes in pretty high on this list. Back at Forest Lawn in the Hollywood Hills, we find the tomb of Bette Davis. The actress was lauded for her dynamic range and strong, memorable performances, often as unsympathetic or unhinged characters. Bette would be the first performer to accrue 10 Academy Award nominations for acting. Her breakout role was playing a vulgar waitress in the 1934 film Of Human Bondage. The following year she got her first Oscar nomination, which she would win, for the film Dangerous. &quot;Sorry, but I'm too tired to be hysterical and my feet are much too soft and going barefoot to stand the jar of dancing over the cliff.&quot; Her next nomination was for 1938's Jezebel, which she would also win. &quot;It's gorgeously red.&quot; &quot;But you can't wear red to the Olympus ball.&quot; &quot;Why not?&quot; &quot;You never saw an unmarried girl in anything but white.&quot; &quot;Well you're gonna see one tomorrow night.&quot; In an era when most actresses aspired to be glamorous and likeable on screen, Bette wasn't afraid to be unglamorous, raw, real, ugly, and unsympathetic, if that's what the narrative demanded. This led to some of the most unique and memorable performances on screen in the 30s through the 60s. Among the other films she'd be nominated for are All About Eve, &quot;Fasten your seatbelts. It's going to be a bumpy night.&quot; and a particularly disturbing performance as the title character in Whatever Happened to Baby Jane? alongside Joan Crawford, which would be her final nomination. &quot;But you are, Blanche. You are in that chair.&quot; Bette continued to act in film and television into the 80s before passing away from cancer at age 81. She's entombed here with her mother and sister, her epitaph &quot;She did it the hard way,&quot; inspired by All About Eve filmmaker Joseph Mankiewicz. The number two male star on our list will come as no surprise to anyone who has been waiting for his name to be mentioned. He does not have a grave since his ashes were scattered off the Pacific coast of California. So here we will remember the legendary Cary Grant. The man who would come to be known as one of Hollywood's definitive leading men was born Archibald Leach in Bristol, England. He began entertaining as a teenager, joining a traveling troupe as a mime acrobat and juggler, including extended performances in New York. He soon was a part of the vaudeville circuit here in the US, looking up to the likes of the Marx Brothers. It was here he would hone his improvisational skills and comedic timing, which would come in handy in the movies. His time in both England and America helped him develop his iconic mid-Atlantic accent as well. By the early 30s he was appearing in the movies. It was then he was encouraged to change his name to something more American sounding, thus Cary Grant was born. He set out to model himself on his hero Douglas Fairbanks, the charming but masculine leading man, the romantic hero sans machismo. This he exemplified in early films like Blonde Venus. By the late 30s he'd found his niche in screwball and romantic comedies like The Awful Truth, The Philadelphia Story, and His Girl Friday. &quot;I don't want to brag but I still got the dimple and in the same place. Look Hildy, I only acted like any husband who didn't want to see his home broken up.&quot; &quot;What home?&quot; Two romance dramas would earn him his two Academy Award nominations, Penny Serenade and None But the Lonely Heart. &quot;Well, what, you think I'm gonna let a funny little redhead like you run around and lose here? suppose some other fella came along and... Oh Judy, I've got to have you.&quot; In the 40s and 50s he was another favorite of Alfred Hitchcock, who saw in him a darker side. He starred alongside Ingrid Bergman in Notorious, &quot;This is a very strange love affair.&quot; Grace Kelly in To Catch a Thief, &quot;Then why are we dawdling like this?&quot; &quot;That's exactly what was running through my mind.&quot; And one of his best-known films was North by Northwest. Grant's final film was 1966's Walk Don't Run, after which he retired from the screen. A few years later he was given an honorary Academy Award for his unique mastery of the art of screen acting with the respect and affection of his colleagues. Cary Grant lived out the remainder of his years in relative quiet to raise his family. In 1986, while touring for his one-man show A Conversation with Cary Grant, he suffered a massive stroke, passing away on November 29th at the age of 82. He was in Iowa at the time. Per his request no funeral was held, and his ashes were scattered off the California coast. Over his 34-year career Grant's screen persona had become larger than life. He himself once quipping, &quot;Everyone wants to be Cary Grant. Even I want to be Cary Grant.&quot; In 2023, Britbox produced a mini-series about the life of Cary Grant called Archie. And that, ladies and gentlemen, brings us to number one. The Summit of the Mount, the Zenith in the Sky, the top of the Marquee. Drumroll please as I try to conjure up more superlatives to bestow upon the greatest female and male legend of classic cinema. Because after 48 stars like the ones we've seen so far, I've just about exhausted my superlative vocabulary. I'll bet many of you might know who they are before we even pull into the cemeteries. Care to take a guess before we arrive? If you guessed we'd be at Cedar Hill Cemetery in Hartford, Connecticut for our number one female star, you know your Hollywood history and your famous graves. Bravo. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Katharine Hepburn. Her name alone has become synonymous with cinematic greatness. She was an actress who broke the mold for women in Hollywood, playing headstrong, independent, and sophisticated women. Not afraid to stand toe to toe with the boys. She was the modern heroine. Her work on Broadway caught the eyes of Hollywood in the early 30s, her first film appearance being in 1932's A Bill of Divorcement with John Barrymore. Two years later she earned her first of a whopping 12 Academy Award nominations for the film Morning Glory. &quot;I want you for my first friend in New York. Mine's Eva Lovelace. It's partly made up and partly real.&quot; She would win the Oscar, her first of four Oscars, a current record for any actor. Her next nominations came for the romance Alice Adams and the comedy The Philadelphia Story, based on the play which was written as a vehicle for her. It co-starred Cary Grant and Jimmy Stewart. &quot;Dexter, would you mind doing something for me?&quot; &quot;Anything what?&quot; &quot;Get the heck out of here.&quot; After a few career setbacks, the film re-established her as a top star. She also began to take more creative control over her projects. For her next film, Woman of the Year, she not only contributed to the script, but was given the director and co-star of her choice. Her choice was Spencer Tracy. &quot;Why did you ask me?&quot; &quot;Thought you might want to kiss me goodbye.&quot; It would be the first of not only nine films together, but also the start of a lifelong romantic relationship. Other films with Tracy include Adam's Rib, and Guess Who's Coming to Dinner, which won her another Oscar. She won her final two Oscars for The Lion in Winter and On Golden Pond. Hollywood's most celebrated actress continued to perform into the 90s, making her final screen appearance in the TV movie One Christmas in 1994. After a series of illnesses later in life, Katherine died from cardiac arrest in 2003, at the age of 96. Not only does she rank number one on this list, but Katharine Hepburn consistently ranked on lists of the 20th century's greatest cultural icons, and women who changed the world. And last, but certainly not least, we round out our list today, perhaps appropriately, at the cemetery that is home to more than any other on this list, Forest Lawn Glendale, the cemetery of legends. Back in the columbarium of eternal light in the Gardens of Memory, we once again find the niche of Hollywood's favorite hard-boiled leading man, Humphrey Bogart, AFI's number one male star of classic cinema. Born in New York and cutting his teeth on the Broadway stage, Humphrey Bogart made his way to California in the late 20s to try his luck in the movies. His feature film debut was in 1930s Up the River with his friend Spencer Tracy. Bogart shuffled back and forth between LA and the New York stage for several years, until his menacing performance in The Petrified Forest brought him enough notice to stay in Hollywood, making motion pictures. &quot;Just keep in mind that I and the boys is candidates for hanging. The first time anyone of you makes a wrong move, I'm going to kill a whole lot of you.&quot; The following years saw him frequently playing gangster and villainous roles, like in Angels with Dirty Faces, though often secondary roles to the likes of James Cagney. In 1941 he had his breakout role as a leading man in High Sierra. Then came The Maltese Falcon, the film that not only made him into a star, but helped usher in the film noir era of the 40s, in which he was a dominant player. &quot;What is it?&quot; &quot;The stuff that dreams are made of.&quot; The year after that, Bogart made what would become his most enduring and iconic film, one of Hollywood's most beloved classics, Casablanca. The role earned him his first Academy Award nomination. &quot;Now now. &quot;Here's looking at you, kid.&quot; A few years later, he began both a professional and romantic partnership with Lauren Bacall. In films noir liked to have and have not, The Big Sleep, Dark Passage, and Key Largo. By 1946 Humphrey Bogart was the highest paid actor in the world. And if you're looking for a movie that features both number ones on this list together, check out The African Queen, in which Bogie stars alongside Katharine Hepburn. He won the Oscar for his performance. &quot;Two legendary stars.&quot; &quot;Don't be worried, Mr. Allnutt.&quot; &quot;One extraordinary adventure.&quot; &quot;Makes your blood race, your face numb, and your spirit soar.&quot; &quot;The African Queen.&quot; His third Oscar nomination was for The Caine Mutiny in 1955. Other memorable films include The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, Sabrina, and In a Lonely Place. By the mid-50s his health began to fail. He had developed esophageal cancer. Humphrey Bogart died on January 14th 1957, at the age of 57. Director John Houston read the eulogy, concluding by saying, &quot;He is quite irreplaceable. There will never be another like him.&quot; So true. So very true. And that concludes our countdown of AFI's top 50 legends of classic cinema. Do you agree with the list? Who else would you consider among Hollywood's greatest legends of classic cinema? Let us know in the comments below, and be sure to like, share, and subscribe for more famous grave tours. Thanks for watching. We'll see you on the next one.