- Today is my 40th birthday. Here are all the things that I know at 40 that I wish I knew at 20. Starting with number one, your relationship with of your relationship with yourself. If you treat yourself poorly, then you'll unconsciously who treat you poorly as well. If you treat yourself then you will only tolerate others who treat you with Number two, the only way to is to do things worth feeling good about. Respect is earned not given. Number three, the only The only rejection is not asking. The only mistake is not risking anything. Success and failure are fuzzy concepts that only exist in your mind not after. After the fact, everything The only real failure is doing nothing. Number four, no one is coming to save you. No single thing will solve No goal, no achievement, no relationship, no one will ever fix you. You will always feel mildly inadequate and somewhat dissatisfied with your life. Nothing is wrong with On the contrary, it might be the most Number five, be the If you want a healthy and fit partner, then be healthy and fit yourself. If you want a loyal and then be loyal and trustworthy yourself. to put it another way, would you date you? If not, then that's a fucking problem. Number six, the most compound over a long period of time. I'm talking about health, confidence, relationships, these things will frustrate because they are slow, but if you start building and you don't stop, by the time you'll have an incredible life. Number seven, the most sexy are the opposite, they but then have intense, When you're young, these and occupy a lot of This applies to social media, casual sex, drugs and alcohol, video games, gambling, vacations, and blow jobs. The first time is incredible, the second time is almost as good, but then it's all downhill from there. Well, except for the blow jobs. Number eight, if you're that excite you, then on something that matters. Our world is overflowing with If you aren't struggling then you haven't correctly Number nine, taking responsibility alleviates more suffering than it creates. Most people assume that for all the pain in your life, then you will just feel worse about it, but the opposite is actually true. The more responsibility you take, the more you empower yourself to actually do something about that pain. That's because number 10, you When you blame someone you are giving them power over you. You are allowing them to define and dictate your happiness and wellbeing. This is fucking stupid, so Number 11, if you have to then you're not that. A rich man doesn't feel a need to show people he's rich. A smart man doesn't feel a A confident person doesn't that he's confident, he just is. Don't say it, be it. Number 12, motivation is but the effect. If you wanna feel take the smallest action towards doing it, then let the momentum carry you forward. Number 13, love is not but the effect. You don't wait until you to commit to a person, you commit to the person in order to create the 14, passion is not the cause You don't wait until you find You learn to do something of developing competency and agency then causes you to become Ah, where's my paint thinner? Number 15, the person you marry is the person you fight with, the house you buy is the house you repair, the dream job you take is Everything comes with an Whatever makes us feel good will inevitably also make us feel bad. Number 16, a happy life is it's a life of meaningful stress. Number 17, don't view exercise You don't work out to lose a few pounds or earn that hamburger and ice cream. With this mindset, you will and quit, instead, view For every unit of energy you put in, you'll receive multiple The catch is that these will be spread out over This is why exercising is far inferior than exercising Okay, so here's a bonus thing but I definitely know at 40, and that is meditation makes Which leads me to the Headspace, the meditation app. Meditation is one of the mental practices you can do. It's been shown to reduce increase memory and focus and improve general feelings of wellbeing. And best of all, you can You can do it at home, on a bus, at work, even while you're taking a shit. Headspace is great because of guided meditations to help you develop a I've been meditating since I was 18 and it's been one of the that I've found to help And fun fact, I was a customer so I guess you could say I Check out the link in the description to get the first 60 days for free. That's a lot of days, by the way, like if you meditated 10 that's 10 hours of free That's a lot of fucking meditation. So check it out, back to the life lessons. Number 18, trust people, and while you might get hurt the alternative is just way worse. Number 19, there's no such thing Warren Buffett has money problems, a homeless guy has money problems. Buffett's money problems than the homeless guy's. Problems don't just disappear, they get exchanged and as you grow and evolve. The solution to today's problem will be the seed of tomorrow's. Number 20, growth is rarely accompanied by joy and celebration. On the contrary, growth is That's because growth requires loss, a loss of your old values, your old loves, your old identity. Change always has a so be sure to let yourself grieve. Number 21, statistically speaking, a normal person is physically unhealthy, emotionally anxious and depressed, socially lonely and financially in debt. Fuck being normal. Number 22, if you can't say no, then your yeses mean nothing. We are defined by what we give up, what we sacrifice and what we reject. If you sacrifice nothing then you have no identity. You are merely a reflection of the preferences and demands In other words, if you other people will decide for you. Number 23, be careful Your identity is a confining you to a life of desperately seeking and finding things to validate whatever you've chosen to become. Define yourself as loosely You'll feel less defensive and be willing to change Number 24, don't make you have no fucking idea Don't make assumptions The last person we're Number 25, no one thinks about you as much Whatever you are insecure about, chances are 99% of people around you haven't even noticed it. This is because everybody else is too busy thinking about themselves. This may strike you as but it's actually liberating. It means that you are judged Number 26, confidence does not come from an expectation of success, it comes from a comfort with failure. There's a word for someone who feels a need to succeed at everything, a fucking narcissist. Number 27, develop a It will grant you the freedom even if it's unpopular. Number 28, you cannot be to some people without also being a complete Part of the price of and usually that hate is Number 29, floss and Look, I know I sound but trust me, in 20 years, Number 30, extraordinary results come from repeating ordinary actions over an unordinary amount of time. Any overnight success of quietly working in obscurity Number 31, choosing a You're also choosing a career advisor, therapist, roommate, best friend, business partner, and no, I'm not saying you be all these things, I'm saying whether you want to or not, your partner is gonna That's what a relationship Number 32, don't Love doesn't fix relationship problems, it doesn't make trust issues go away, the truth is, love can It's an amplifier. It makes a good relationship better and a bad relationship much worse. Don't get me wrong, love is great, I mean, love is beautiful But for a healthy relationship, by itself, love is not enough. Number 33, trust is the Every good relationship Yeah, I have something in my teeth. Floss. Every good relationship of years of trust. Every failed relationship Therefore, honesty and integrity are the backbones of a life and therefore, happiness. Dishonesty and a lack of integrity might be a shortcut to but you're completely fucking so fucking stop it. Number 34. Speaking of which, if all of your relationships then newsflash, you're Number 35, there's no such only a bad response to an emotion. Every emotion can be used One of the most useful in your life is to figure out how to channel your negative Number 36, my whole life, I always promised myself who went to bed at 9:00 PM on a Friday, and I would never be that guy who got up at 5:00 AM and get after it. But kids, I hate to tell you, Number 37, you don't have including yourself. Let me say that again for you don't have to prove including yourself. Number 38, life advice is and if it doesn't fit, discard And like clothing, bad within a few weeks, but good advice that Number 39, nothing and nothing easy in life is meaningful. We think we'd like to have on a silver platter, but the truth is that we don't that we don't struggle for. So stop avoiding the and instead find the And finally, number 40, it's A friend of mine once told me He said that when her and for the first time in her life, she began to take piano lessons. For weeks, she practiced At first, the family a way for her to process her grief, but months went by and she People started to wonder if she was crazy or something was wrong with her. They told her to give it up, face reality. I mean, she was old. By the time she was in her '90s, she had been playing piano longer than most professional She had mastered all of the classics, Mozart, Beethoven, Bach, Vivaldi. Everyone who heard her play swore that she must have in her youth. No one believed her when she said that she took her first lesson in her 60s. I love this story because it shows that even at an impractical you still have more time than most professionals at that I didn't start writing until I was 27. I didn't start this YouTube At every phase of my life, I've started five to 10 Yet, it didn't matter. It's never too late. I get emails all the time &quot;Hey, I'm 20 or 40 or 60 Can I change? Is there time?&quot; The answer is it's never too The only question is how and make excuses and pretend there's not. All right guys, that was fun, (upbeat music)