My name is Pieter Tritton, aka Posh Pete. I smuggled over 5 million pounds' worth of cocaine internationally. This is how crime works. I've been in prison with people there, capos from the Sinaloa cartel, bosses from the Colombian cartels. And even when they were in the amount of fear and paranoia that they had to contend with, people trying to kill them, people trying to take And then the end, what They ended up going to and losing all of it, pretty much. I am extremely lucky to be alive. In my opinion, the risk Cocaine is farmed in, well, farmed and produced in Peru, Bolivia, and Colombia. The farms will generally out in the countryside, where they will grow the coca bushes. They will crop the coca leaves. They will then be taken which is the laboratory where The cocaine, once it's will be transported normally, or to the ports. Also the capital, should we say, for sale. The farmers themselves They have to farm an acre of bushes for 1 kilo of cocaine. Once the cocaine is processed, I know in Peru you can should we say, $700 up The chemicals that we needed to buy in order to process the cocaine were quite difficult to get, because they were controlled things like methanol, which is a pure alcohol, hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acids, activated carbon, acetone. We had to basically make a fake company, a fake profile, have a number in order to be able to go to to then buy the chemicals from them. Because they wouldn't sell to You had to be from a business. Ether is one that's Acetone as well, in South America. Ether is the big one, it used to be the best type Sourcing tanker-loads of It's virtually impossible there now, so they're having to use other chemicals, which aren't quite as good. And that's one reason cocaine, if anyone out there has been they will now be able to tell is not the same as cocaine 20 years ago. Because I've been around cocaine so much, I can, without even taking it, I can just rub it between my fingers, look at the color, smell it, and I can tell you pretty by the chemicals that My most successful method of smuggling was a form of impregnating Through a Colombian connection, someone in Cali would buy the cocaine. They would then give it to, like, a basic chemist over there. So the cocaine would be put into liquid, and then into liquid latex, which would then be set in We would then put those latex sheets into the ground sheets of tents. So we would employ passengers, basically, to go and collect the tent after it had been to then bring that back through customs. I kind of set some ground rules when it came to recruiting passengers. I would try and find no criminal record, or fairly collected, you know, reasonably well presented. And just people that were fairly sensible, preferably someone that And then we would pay them on their return to Britain once the drugs had been extracted. Or sometimes, if it was enough we'd pay them as soon as and handed the tent over. First tent that we brought in, I flew to Quito in Ecuador. The tents had already been manufactured and the cocaine impregnated into it. I'd managed to get through unscathed, got back to Britain, landed, it's done. Fully expecting to be So, yeah, I mean, I arrived and walked straight I mean, I was, to be honest, I was in shock that nothing happened. There was nearly 5 kilos And having gone through that experience, I realized that this of impregnating the cocaine into rubber, was definitely a good method. Because it, you know, I'd and got through three customs checks -- one in Ecuador, one in and come through with it fine. During the time that we were trafficking, we never actually lost a single shipment. The great thing about that method was that it wasn't detectable by X-ray. You can't detect it by a scanner. The dogs couldn't detect it, because obviously the cocaine And we used to counteract the liquid test that they'd do, by putting in another chemical. I mean, that pretty much that they can do on you. But there were definitely countries that we avoided going A lot of the South Americans try to avoid trafficking in America. The DEA have got powers to come down to Colombia or Ecuador, and arrest you and then and try you there. Places like Thailand, Indonesia, where they have the death Saudi Arabia, anywhere that's got the death sentence for drugs. Also countries with really harsh laws, high sentences. As far as other forms obviously the cartels use to bring in the largest Tons at a time. This is normally done using corrupt port officials at both ends who facilitate the I didn't like the idea, personally, because I'd realized, having seen other people do it, and when it went wrong, the police officer or the customs agent involved and inform on all of the Recently, I've seen newer methods of smuggling cocaine across borders. I had a Russian friend when I was in prison in Ecuador, who was captured with 42 tons of cocaine, which was in barrels of molasses. It had been liquidized and I mean, there is just it can be impregnated into. Once we managed to get the tents back through customs we would then have to extract the cocaine using chemical processes. Any cut that was in there wouldn't come through in the process, so we were only left Once it was completely dry, we would cut it using phenacetin, which is what people call &quot;magic.&quot; We would normally cut 40% phenacetin, and then repackage it and sell it. An early associate with whom I'd traffic drugs within the UK, so he put me in contact who was already importing via a contact of his in Cali, Colombia, who was operating with the Cali cartel. That became our source of All of the cocaine we'd pay for up front using various different like Western Union, MoneyGram. We would always try and keep the transfers under 1,000 pounds at a time. We would use various people because obviously we couldn't. Really, you can't use one person more than two or three times in a month. We had some underground that were a bit corrupt, should we say, that would allow us to send I did some workings out on the train, on the train journey down So, from every $100 or 100 pounds' worth of cocaine that you buy, I would estimate that goes to the farmer who's Probably 35% to 40% goes to the cartel. But the cartels are, really, they're controlling the lab and then the shipping The remainder, we'll just say around 60%, would probably go to the dealers on the street. Much the same as OPEC the cartels control the The problem with drug trafficking is you're only going to be before you get caught. In the operation that I was carrying out, we tried to keep the to as small as possible, the less people know, that somebody's going to The group that we had, and a Chilean who were the key players. And then, obviously, we to bring the tents back in. Well, after the Colombian in a laboratory that was the Colombian was turned and became an informant. We then started to see police activity around us quite frequently. So it became very much between them and us. I was arrested in Ecuador in 2005 and ended up getting sentenced to 12 years in prison in Ecuador. I was diagnosed with complex PTSD, which is post-traumatic stress disorder, after having seen so much mayhem and death and destruction I would say that the levels are greater than ever these days. Even though there's the purity of cocaine has also increased, I think, because of the We're now in the internet era. Encrypted technologies, encrypted messaging services, and dozens of them. Nowadays, there's so of transferring money around the world, such as bitcoin, ethereum. These are definitely being for facilitating large movements of cash. So it's a lot harder for the authorities to keep on top of all of this. In order to keep up with it, that you're always pure cocaine quicker The sort of mafias, like the Albanians and the Russians and the Chinese, they are now sending their own to just buy the cocaine and then basically say goodbye to them and then facilitate So then that means they, then, have the whole share of the profit. The Albanian Mafia's of the whole trafficking And I think it's become very much more monopolized There used to be smaller Those smaller players have by the fact that the Albanians and the like of the Albanians have just got it stitched up. In my opinion, the government and they're fully aware that they can't win the war on drugs. And if you talk to a lot they will definitely tell you that the war on drugs is unwinnable. And in my personal opinion, the only way that the war on drugs will be won is to legalize all drugs, manufacture them under and then tax them heavily in order to offset the Really, the key element in this is the financial gain of criminals. If you can take out the financial gain from the whole equation, then there's no incentive for So I don't think that at a border force and and, say, eradication of crops. I mean, they've tried eradicating crops, and that only had a detrimental effect on the people on the ground, because it destroyed other crops as well and led to disease and illness It's huge business, it being kept illegal, because it actually and more monetary gain, overall, for law enforcement, for for healthcare, for these drug companies making drugs that help with treatments. I got into selling drugs at an early age. I always had sort of an but drugs was, at that and a lot of people seemed to be doing it. There were illegal raves every weekend, and loads of the people started going to these parties. So, you know, instantly Until I was arrested at 17, when I was at college, which put a stop to everything. You know, I saw how upset my family were, and I was worried about and jeopardizing my future. Trying to survive on a student loan, I realized that they don't go very far. That's when I first came Started selling cocaine Before I knew it, I was then selling cocaine and then I was selling to their dealers, and then I was selling and before I know it, I'm And then ended up fanning out and spreading out into and supplying loads of people there. The first time that I went I mean, yeah, I did But, yeah, I suppose you I mean, they are the Anywhere you go into prison, you will end up making contacts, because that's the nature I'm now going into schools, trying to educate people on the harm that cocaine, and drugs in general, do. It'll only end up with you And the effect that that will have on your family and friends is devastating. Since getting released from prison, I wrote a book called &quot;El Infierno,&quot; which is published by Ebury Penguin, which is all about my I'm currently writing the and I'm hoping to get the two in order to make a Netflix I have set up my own company with a view to making my chocolate drinks and bars, importing cacao from Ecuador. Not cocaine, cacao. So, yeah, we're going straight this time.