The existence of England is one that is often This may be due to the overshadowing history United Kingdom, but nonetheless, in order to already exist - and it actually has since So, how was England created, who claimed the the nation that we know today?... As the Roman Empire began to fade from the started to see a wave of migration from Anglo-Saxon According to some historians, after the Romans from the nearby Picts and Scots and subsequently that they would push out the other invaders. The Germanic peoples were successful in expelling on the native Britons and established their The new Anglo-Saxon rulers then installed East Anglia, North-Umbria, and Wessex on the There are minimal records of what happened kingdoms, but we do know that it wouldn't invaders of their own... In 793, a Viking army landed at the Lindisfarne Their violence and disrespect stunned the these Vikings had in store... By the end of 870, East Anglia fell to the 4 years later. As the Vikings seized Northumbria next in under Anglo-Saxon authority. When the current king of Wessex, AEthelred to protect his kingdom's independence. At first, he did so by paying off the Viking to lead an army against them. This culminated in the Battle of Edington, their attempts to capture Wessex. A power vacuum in Mercia around the same time of the kingdom and instead of establishing This nobleman would answer to King Alfred ultimate authority throughout both regions to the Vikings. After the death of the King of Wessex and Edward the Elder and AEthelflaed each became Together, these new rulers began to increase the neighboring Danelaw, and they both worked In 917, AEthelflaed expanded her lands to all of East Anglia into his kingdom. As AEthelflaed pushed forward with the expansion, the way up to York, where the locals decided to her as opposed to fighting. Although AEthelflaed shortly died, her daughter, and continue on the current course. Unexpectedly, though, the Mercian people quickly the perfect opportunity for King Edward from In 918, the Anglo-Saxons continued farther and more land for themselves. By the time of Edward's death in 924, the had all pledged allegiance to the king. This put the Anglo-Saxons in a confident position kingdom. Around this time, AEthelstan's sister would still controlled Northumbria. AEthelstan marched on and was finally able as his sister's husband passed away. This left Northumbria up for grabs and the his kingdom. This is generally the time that most historians created... But, the situation was not exactly so simple. AEthelstan was not done trying to expand his did term himself the "King of the English" we know as England today. In 937, AEthelstan decided to give an invasion his authority even further. The Kingdom of Scotland, or as it was known the English and therefore appealed to the This prompted an alliance between Constantine of Dublin, and Owain, King of Strath-clyde. With King Olaf at the helm, the alliance faced Though it is unknown exactly where this battle was severely crushed by the English invaders. The casualties on both sides were disastrously without a doubt the victors. It's believed by many that this clash may and stirred up a new sense of nationalism Nonetheless, it didn't result in the incorporation England, as both stayed independent. England, on the other hand, would have to The Vikings, though temporarily defeated, of the 10th century. After AEthelstan's death in 939, the previously ruler, took immediate advantage of England's While King AEthelstan's half-brother, Edmund, in to reconquer some of the lands that had York was quickly captured and a large chunk was also taken as he strongarmed the English Ironically, when Olaf died in 941 and his to the throne as his successor, Edmund of back for the invasion. The following year, the middle chunk of annexed 2 more years the Vikings were entirely pushed This essentially reunited England since the As ambitious as his ancestors, Edmund next its southern territories by the end of the The rest was given to King Malcolm I of Scotland It once again appeared as though the Kingdom but this was once more short-lived... Edmund was mysteriously murdered in 946, which of England. The next year, Eric Bloodaxe from Norway attacked which prompted almost a decade of conflicts Eventually, the English king was able to once on behalf of England. His death soon ended his reign after this succeeded him but was quickly deposed in favor However, this was only a partial deposition, small section of the kingdom as a co-ruler. When Eadwig died only 2 years after this decision, Under the reign of King Edgar, known as Edgar English kingdom could finally be established. Many reforms were passed and a vast number the Danelaw were actually upheld, in hopes portion of the population. Peace, unity, and order were the pillars of his work helped to fully solidify the unity The ultimate formation of England was a long From the initial immigration of the Anglo-Saxons first kingdoms, extending into the invasion the Anglo-Saxons began to seize territory England could be seen. After a series of conquering, being conquered, eventually united the existing kingdoms throughout From there, it was merely a matter of establishing territory in order to keep their kingdom physically the peaceful, building the foundational laws Kingdom, or nation, of England...