Transcriber: Gabriel Orozco Hoyuela Can the mind really heal the body? And if so, is there to convince skeptical physicians like me? These are the questions that fueled and what I discovered the medical establishment, that the mind can heal the body. We call it the &quot;placebo effect&quot;. And we've been trying (Laughter) The placebo effect is a thorn in the side It's an inconvenient truth, trying to bring new treatments, new So it's a problem! But I actually think, The placebo effect is excellent news! Because it's concrete evidence that the body holds within it that can make unthinkable So, if you find this surprising, if you have a hard time believing you need look no further than a database compiled of over 3500 case studies of patients who have gotten better You think there's such I swear, if you go look at this database, Everything is in there. Stage 4 cancers that disappeared HIV positive patients, Heart disease, kidney failure, thyroid disease, A great example of this is a case study from 1957 of Mr. Wright So, things weren't going well for He had tumors the size of oranges in his His liver and spleen were enlarged, and his lungs were filling up with that have to be drained But Mr. Wright wasn't giving up hope. He had heard about and he was begging his doctor, &quot;Come on, just give me some of that Now, unfortunately the Krebiozen was and the protocol required that the doctor that says that this guy has And his doctor, But Mr. Wright was tenacious He kept badgering his doctor, until finally his doctor was like, So he dosed him up on a Friday, not expecting that Mr. Wright But to his utter shock, when Dr. West Mr. Wright was up, and his tumors had shrunk They had melted like And ten days after getting So Mr. Wright was up Krebiozen as the miracle drug until the initial reports that said that it didn't really look like Mr. Wright fell into a deep depression This time Dr. West decided to get sneaky, &quot;You know that Krebiozen that you got, But I got us some ultrapure This stuff's got it going on.&quot; He then injected Mr. Wright And once again, the tumors disappeared, Mr. Wright was up rocking and rolling And then the American by publishing a nationwide study that proved definitively Two days later, Mr. Wright, Soon after that, in the medical literature Three baby girls were born, on Friday the 13th in the Okefenokee And the midwife pronounced born on such a fateful day, The first, she said, would die The second, before her 21st. The third, before her 23rd birthday. And as it turned out, the first girl died the second died the day and the third girl, who knew what got wind of that, and the day she showed at the hospital begging them, She wound up dying that night. These two case studies are great of the placebo effect, and When Mr. Wright got that distilled that's a great example When you get a seemingly and yet something is happening such that the disease goes away. The nocebo effect is the opposite. So the three hexed girls are When the mind's belief that something then it comes to manifest. So the scientific literature, like the New England Journal of Medicine and the Journal of the American these scientific journals are and the nocebo effect We've known this since the 1950s, and we've seen countless case studies that show that in almost if you give people a saline injection, or most effectively, (Laughter) 18-80% of the time, people get better. And it's not just in their mind, like &quot;Oh! They're just feeling better, But is not. This is measurable. You can actually see So for example patients getting placebos were found to have ulcers that healed, colons that became less inflamed, warts that disappeared, cells It's provable, it's happening in the body, even though it's initiated by the mind. So, when you look at these, I love the Rogain studies. You get a bunch of bald men, They grow hair! The opposite is also true, and you tell them it's chemotherapy, they vomit, and they lose their hair. So this is really happening in the body. My question was, Is it just the mind's positive belief Not according to Harvard According to him, he thinks is actually the nurturing care more so even than the mind's that some of the studies actually say So Ted Kaptchuk wanted to study this, and he did a great study that were getting placebos for an illness, for treatment of an illness &quot;You're getting a placebo, inert ingredients, nothing active.&quot; Most likely, Kaptchuk postulated, they felt like they were doing something, So to say that you can heal yourself You know, the body can heal itself. The body has these innate but the scientific data the tending nurturing care of a healthcare to facilitate that process. It's not an easy process so it makes a big difference if somebody else is holding But the problem is while the doctor can also be the nocebo. So, what patients need from us, they need us to be forces of healing, So every time your doctor tells you, you're going to have to take that or God forbid, &quot;You've got a 5% five-year survival rate,&quot; it's really no different that when that they were hexed. It's a form of medical hexing As doctors, we think We're giving people we think they need to know, but we actually can be harming them. Instead we need be more Taking that distilled water, I promise, this is going to But do we have to count on Do we have to get fake surgeries and wind up in clinical trials? This is what led So in my last TEDx talk, l talked about a new wellness model that I developed, called the Whole Health Cairn, and this came about trying to find how else can that's clearly evidenced by can we do something without And my hypothesis was in order to be optimally healthy, we need more than just a good diet, getting enough sleep, taking your Those things all are great, But I also came to believe that a healthy professional life, a healthy spiritual life, a healthy financial life, In essence, we need a healthy mind. So I wanted to try to prove this, and and the copious data that I found, proving that all of those things I compiled them all into my upcoming book, &quot;Mind Over Medicine: Scientific But I want to give you a few highlights So you can see from that all this facets are built upon that I call your Inner Pilot Light. And for me that's the essential that knows what's true for you. That's willing to tell you the truth about maybe what's out what stones in your Whole Health Cairn And as you see I've put the body, on the top of the Whole Health Cairn because it's the most fragile, and the most easy to kind if other things in your life So what I found in the medical data People that have a strong social network compared to those who are lonely. Married people are twice as likely In fact, curing your loneliness may be the most important measure of prevention More so than quitting smoking Your spiritual life matters. Those who attend religious services Your professional life matters. You really can work yourself to death. Death by overwork, and the survivors can actually apply for workman's But it's not just Japan, it's actually we just don't get benefits here. So one study found that people are actually a third more likely Your attitude really matters. Eappy people live 7 to 10 years and optimists are 77% less likely So how does this happen? What is happening in the brain This is what was fascinating to me. I found that the brain communicates via hormones and neurotransmitters. So, for example, if you have or feeling in the brain, Something's wrong. If you feel lonely or pessimistic, you are in a toxic relationship, and it turns on the hypothalamus, that communicates with the adrenal gland stress hormones like cortisol, It turns on what Walter Cannon that triggers the sympathetic and puts you into that it's protective if you are running away but in every day life, you're supposed if there is a threat and then This isn't what happens But fortunately there is that Herbert Benson at Harvard described. And when this comes about, the parasympathetic nervous system and healing hormones like oxytocin, fill the body and bathe What I found the most amazing about this is that those natural self-repair they only flip on when So when you're having stress responses, all those natural self-repair The body is too busy trying to fight So, when you think about this, How can I possibly start to change So one study showed more than 50 stress responses per day. And if you're lonely, or depressed or in a miserable relationship that number Now this relaxation response explains the placebo effect. So when you're going to get supposedly you don't know whether you're getting it triggers that relaxation response, that combination of the mind's and the nurturing care relaxes the nervous system. And then all those natural self repair Fortunately though you don't have to turn on your relaxation responses. There are lots of simple that turn on the relaxation responses and these have been proven So you can meditate, you can get a massage, you can go out with your friends, you can have sex, you can laugh, So I ask you to consider Which stones in your Whole Health Cairn Each of these stones can be a factor for creating stress responses How might you turn on more And most importantly, what does your body What prescription do you need And are you going to be brave enough to take action on the truth of what I believe our healthcare system and it's largely because for the body's ability to heal itself. The medical establishment We've come to think and all that we've learned that we've mastered nature, to think that maybe nature could And yet, spontaneous remissions that sometimes nature It's a narcisitic wound for physicians. We don't know what to do with that. It makes us feel helpless But fortunately, we're needed. The physician and all the other are absolutely essential to this process. We need to embrace this. And patients need to change It is not just doctors. We need patients to stop thinking taking your power and handing it Your body is your business, to communicate with your body, So I once had a dream, looking at these mountainsides, that were standing shoulder to shoulder, and they were all facing due north, beautiful colors covering And there was a bright and everyone was facing this light, and that's what I think of, I think of all of us, standing up, So please stand with me for a moment. It's going to take all of us. Just because things have gotten bad I believe that just like there are there are no incurable systems. But it's going to take all of us, needing and bring care back to healthcare. So please hold hands and let's just set that things are going to be that we can start this grassroots effort Be the love that you want to and I believe miracles can happen. As we do this you're releasing oxytocin, and as we do so we can heal healthcare. Thank you. (Applause)