Many years ago, when I was a new employee, I went to visit my colleague's house where she lived alone. I once had okonomiyaki with her, which her mother had made and frozen and sent to her. That's when I first learned that frozen food is heartwarming. Nutritious okonomiyaki that was really delicious with lots of cabbage and meat. I will make homemade frozen food. I rented a bicycle to go home because I had more luggage. My food expenses these days are around 30,000 yen a month. Spinach was 157 yen per bag. It was on the cheaper side that day. Bean seedlings 99 yen. It will grow back in about 2 weeks. New Zealand pumpkin 327 yen. A little more expensive, but the domestically grown ones were much more expensive... Broccoli 197 yen. There seems to be about twice as much as usual. to the core. Carrot 139 yen. Zucchini 199 yen. Cut into round slices and add 1/2 teaspoon salt. Cabbage 109 yen. It is one of the most common ingredients in the refrigerator because it can be used for various dishes. Lemons 299 yen. The color and aroma of this lemon was like an orange. It will last about a month in the freezer. Squeeze lemon over the cabbage and soak in water for a minute to remove the smell. Salted zucchini that still tastes good after heated. I cut the leftover cabbage into pieces that I use often and freeze them. I think this way of cutting is the easiest to use for any kind of cooking for me. Freezer for about 2 weeks. Eringi mushrooms 97 yen. I can use newspaper for anything. Because the room temperature is high in the kitchen, I keep it in the hallway. I put salt and pepper on the leftover pork from the okonomiyaki. Roll up the pea shoots. 1 tablespoon each of mirin and soy sauce. The bean sprouts are crispy and tasty even after thawing. 1/4 of an onion. Ginger will last about a month, and I keep it in water. I put salt and pepper pork on it and let it sit for 30 minutes. Large broccoli. Carrots are boiled quickly for a minute or so. Boil the spinach quickly and put it in cold water. Half a tablespoon each of soy sauce and sugar, 2 tablespoons of ground sesame seeds. I heat it when I eat it. Half a tablespoon of honey. half a tablespoon each of soy sauce and mirin. Let cool well. I found an electric mill at 3Coins and bought it. I found it much more convenient than I expected, and it even has a light. Tuna with a little salt and pepper. Bake with olive oil and vegetables for about 20 minutes. Spoon the mackerel and fry. A dash of ginger. 1 teaspoon each of soy sauce and mirin. 1/2 tablespoon miso. It's mackerel minced. One egg, 1/2 cup flour, 1/2 cup water. Cut into pieces so they don't warp. Electric mill is still useful. I put the batter on tightly and let it sit for a little while. Put the pork cutlets in the pan and then turn up the heat. I've heard that pumpkin tends to release water when it's boiled. I want to eat it right away, but I'm conflicted because I might run out of side dishes. While the oil is still warm, I harden it with a processing agent. Avocados 98 yen a piece. 1/4 onion and lemon juice. Add salt, mash and freeze. You can arrange it in many ways. And I'll make it for breakfast. They say half mayo is less likely to release water after thawing. Snap peas 246 yen. They say 2 cups of rice is about 150g x 4 servings. It's a messy lightweight and left half-empty, so I'm going to make onigiri (rice balls) . I pack it as flat as possible to reduce uneven heating. When I used to make a whole frozen lunch box, the vegetables tended to lose their flavor, but the fried food was delicious. There were a lot of gaps, so I made another dish in a hurry. Ketchup, oyster sauce, sugar. Some of you are watching from Italy. But it was a staple side dish in my parents' lunches and it's delicious for me. Finished with Tabasco. + 1 tablespoon mirin, 4 tablespoons soy sauce, 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar. Vegetable bags purchased at Costco that will last a long time. This seasoned eggs recipe is the best I have ever tasted! The lunch box that you can see what's inside is very convenient. Get rid of the smell of cooking. I'll open the cookie friend gave me. I moisturize my well-used hands. I take it easy. Heat frozen avocado and broccoli for 1 minute. Tuna left over from yesterday. Sesame oil, soy sauce, vinegar, gochujang (red pepper paste) as needed. Ahi poke-like rice bowl for breakfast. The avocados didn't discolor, didn't taste any different. The other day was my grandmother's birthday. But I can't think of anything good at this time. I stopped at a cafe. There were many desserts that I was interested in. I picked one based on size, but it was very good. I'm going to buy some parts for accessories and go home. I have a lot of broccoli. I quickly defrost the broccoli with the pasta. Mash it well and add pasta and olive oil. I'm glad I finished prepping the broccoli, so I could make it quickly. A perfect menu for when I want to keep it simple. I'll heat the ham sandwich in the microwave for a minute or so. In the morning when I need to heal. I can defrost it right in the microwave so I can have breakfast in no time! The snap peas had a little frosting on them. Put some refrigerant in it. I want to eat my meal as soon as possible, even a minute after work. 1 tablespoon of leeks, grated yam and kelp, and 1 tablespoon of white soup stock. Pour hot water to make instant soup. The grilled tuna was a little dry, but the meat was just fine with the avocado. I put frozen fried bean curd and soup stock in a pot and defrost the rice balls. Cabbage is added at the end and cooked quickly. The ingredients are cut up so the miso soup is ready in no time. minced mackerel is also a little bit tough, but tasty seasoning. Is it difficult to freeze fish? I feel safer freezing meat-based side dishes because they are delicious. I've come to eat lunch outside when I can afford it. The flowers blooming behind me smell nice. Pollen stains my eyes. On the way home, I bought strawberries for 300 yen, I think these pocket tissues used to be available at Daiso... but I haven't seen them recently. I need to eat some cutlets and beat the pollen. I've heard that strawberries are fresher when the heft is standing. Highly anticipated tonkatsu. I was satisfied without betrayal. I received what I had ordered online. It's supposed to be attached to the washing machine. I was sleeping in short sleeves and I got cold and woke up in the middle of the night. It's the season when I have to worry about what to wear. Seasoned egg was delicious and easy to make, so I made it twice. With leftover tomatoes and Today's drink is iced green tea. Some days I wake up hot and some days I wake up chilly. I have often wondered how to use up avocados. I often want to dry my dishcloths before putting them in the washing machine. I'm hoping this towel dryer will do the trick. I don't feel like going straight home so I'm going to stop by cafe. I feel like I've been using keeping for the first time since I was a student. I put them in the dryer by mistake, and the wrinkles are hard to get out. The upper sleeves with the Keeping is a little better. When I was a student, I used to iron my uniform every day. I think I could have gotten a few more wrinkles out of it. I'm running low on freezer stock and was wondering what to eat. I'm floating around trying to come up with a combination of kujo-negi and okonomiyaki. Even topped with a fried egg. Negi, fried egg, and dried bonito flakes. A funnel that I have to fetch water twice. I went to bed early so I could get up early. I plan to eat out for dinner. I'm going to bake it because it tends to get hard in the microwave. I plan to come back light on my way home. It takes longer, but it tastes better than the microwave. I bought bread from my favorite bakery as a souvenir for friend. This time every side dish was delicious without fail! On the last day when I want to get into the spirit, a pork cutlet sandwich. I've used up most of my stock. Udon noodles and half a can of tuna. Broccoli and cabbage also still frozen. 100cc of cream instead of milk. 1 tablespoon cheese powder and 1/2 tablespoon tomato paste. Just put it all in and put it on the fire. Rich, thick tomato cream udon noodles I'm in the mood for a little simple clothing these days. 3 materials I've always wanted to try red velvet cake, but I've never been able to find it. There were cookies in the cafe, so I bought one. (This is not my style. LOL) Thank you for watching to the end!