I'm Mr. Beat Oh. It's ok, you can come a little That's better. Anyway, when I was 18 years If you don't know what I'm talking about, is the process in which all male American and fight in a war, whether they want to aged 18 to 25, must register with the country goes to war and runs out of voluntary My dad missed the draft by three But my dad VOLUNTEERED to become a soldier, pretty well, joining the Army about one year after as many as 3.8 million people, including 58,220 major powers use two much smaller powers to fight other directly. It was a war that not only divided controversial that it was the first war to cause a trusting their own government. It almost of this guy. It was the first war Here's the story of the Vietnam War, arguably Once upon a time, there was a group of in mainland Southeast Asia...an area commonly Chinese began to influence and straight up take and France had conquered the area and World War Two...most people don't know that wars that began right after World War By the 1930s, several Vietnamese were and various revolutionary groups organized group was the Viet Minh, who not only pushed but also the Japanese who were now -War in Vietnam (1945-1946)- Ah yes, the Viet Minh, a group of communists exiled from mainland Southeast Asia for most a revolution inspired, at least partially, by the Viet Minh had got aid from the United States, president Franklin Roosevelt was a and argued Vietnam should be given Well, FDR died, and after the war ended, the and this led to uh...yeah...another war. Ho Chi to fight it. Quite literally, actually. weapons the French had, they dug tunnels strategy of conducting guerrilla warfare, or a hid in the jungle and launched ambushes, or By early 1946, French, Japanese, and British -First Indochina War- But after the Japanese and British left, the they were RECRUITING, and their numbers were eventually able to regain control of Indochina, and HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE DIED. Not crimes.This period came to be known as The First Meanwhile, after it became clear that the the United States was like, "uh, you," and started secretly aiding the Viet Minh had a decisive victory over the Dien Bien Phu. It was a huge morale booster for By then, the United States was freaking out about in the American government thought that they to France so that they could defeat the Viet the U.S. had a foreign policy of "containment." always be trying to expand its influence, and countries had to do whatever they could democracy good, communism bad...stop communism thinking is ultimately what led to the U.S. war that ended in a stalemate...actually that the U.S. had prevented South Korea from becoming spread of communism on the Korean peninsula, warned that once one country "fell" to would "fall" to it next. There was even a name Eisenhower didn't want to make the mistake again fight in proxy wars against the Soviet Union...ya communism spreading across Indochina did freak out However, after the Battle of Dien Bien Phu, At the 1954 Geneva Conference, not to be confused entirely different...diplomats from France, the Viet and the United States all agreed to TEMPORARILY a map of it. They created the country of Laos...ah Cambodia. Hi Cambodia! And finally, they parallel. Up here, the Democratic Republic the State of Vietnam, which eventually morphed There were supposed to be elections held in 1956 elections never happened, and a big reason why John Foster Dulles, the U.S. Secretary of State. that any election would likely put communists Allen Dulles, who was in charge of the CIA up PsyOp. He spread propaganda that said the saying stuff like they buried a priest of Catholics in North Vietnam fled to the Hey speaking of Catholics, Ngo Dinh proclaimed himself the first Ok ok. Diem held a referendum to see if he he got 98.2% of the vote! Impressive. Heck, didn't know that was mathematically Uh yeah, he would rule the country with he started a "Denounce the Communists" who even slightly became associated with being or even executed. Yep, you could get the And despite being a corrupt dictator Vietnam who wasn't Catholic, the American Meanwhile, in North Vietnam, Ho Chi also often got...well would you look at that...99% Chi Minh as a brutal dictator, to many better dude than Diem. Still, the North often seizing farmland also and executing at -Increasing American Involvement- By the end of the 1950s, there was a new, rising much of it WITHIN South Vietnam, but it was called the Liberation Army of South "Viet Cong," which is shortened from "Viet communist. The Viet Cong got support from North Laos to help communists there. How did that a network of roads and trails running through simply referred to as the Ho Chi Minh Trail, In 1960, a dude named Le Duan led North Vietnam, and he'd be more aggressive to South Despite not wanting to send troops, President weapons, and money to South Vietnam. But not that the United States may not stick around wait where is he at? Oh there he is. But then THIS Kennedy sent more and more military advisors, despite the French general Charles Vietnam would lead the United States into a Still, Kennedy thought it'd look really On May 8, 1963, more than 3,000 Buddhists on flying the Buddhist flag on the Buddha Day. threw grenades at the protestors, ultimately led to mass protests against Diem by Buddhists the right to practice their religion freely, South Vietnam's capital, in June, when Buddhist in a photograph by Malcolm Browne, is the Quang Duc burned himself alive at a busy Saigon picture from an album cover by Rage Against that no photograph "in history has generated Speaking of Kennedy, he was about in particular. South Vietnamese generals told the or an illegal overthrow of a government, of the wouldn't stop them if they tried. On November him the next day. South Vietnam would have led by a series of generals in and out of power. ready to get Americans out of Vietnam after this, it would have happened, but we'll never know as an entire video about that crazy assassination, hey watch it maybe? But yeah, this led to being sworn in as the next president. Johnson he wasn't a big fan of American involvement in really bad if South Vietnam fell to communism. continuing to carry out more covert operations At least, he didn't want -The War Expands- 1964 was an election year, and Lyndon Johnson especially when his main was talking trash he was too weak pressure on North Vietnam by putting On August 2, an American destroyer named the North Vietnam in the Gulf of Tonkin when it fired a warning shot and the torpedo boats North Vietnamese torpedo boats attacked the USS But here's the thing, the sailors on the USS nope they weren't being attacked at all. President Johnson ordered an air bases and asked Congress to grant him to fight back against North Vietnamese Congress passed what's known as the 1964. The House passed it 416 to 0. The Senate voting against it were Wayne Morse and Ernest American boys into combat in a war in which into which we have been misguidedly drawn, which resolution was like "grandma's nightshirt" because check to commit American forces to Vietnam. And Under the advice of the U.S. Secretary of Defense Johnson increased the number of military Johnson, or LBJ as many call him today, troops on the ground shortly before changed after the election was over. LBJ understatement. It was the most lopsided in terms of the popular vote. And shortly After the Viet Cong attacked an American Johnson ordered Operation Rolling of North Vietnam. Operation Rolling Thunder time, the United States dropped around 800 tons of seem to faze North Vietnam. They continued to In order to disrupt the Ho Chi Minh Trail supply which itself was going through a civil the U.S. Air Force, wrote, "we're going But all this bombing didn't seem to have much hit their targets, instead falling into empty fighters just kept going underground anyway, bombs. And so, President Johnson did what once A LOT of ground troops. By the end of 1965, more By the end of 1966, more than 385,000. By the end more than 536,000. Holy dang. And in case you were many of them did NOT volunteer to drafted. Nearly 1.9 million men would Most of those drafted were poor. Rich people they made up stories about medical conditions The American soldiers were originally but uh...yeah that was a disaster. The more like SPECTATORS in their own war, as The leading commander of the American forces who hoped to take out both North Vietnam and or a military strategy of attempting to simply will to fight. But...yeah...North Vietnam and the to fight. In fact, as more Americans came, Soldiers on both sides fought in some often rainy. When it wasn't rainy, it Swarms of weaver ants with stinging bites. The Viet Cong didn't have the military but they made their own bombs, set up for American soldiers to fall in their easy for the Viet Cong to camouflage not They'd launch ambushes on American soldiers, To counter the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese, missions in villages, especially along the helicopters would spray machine gun bullets move in quickly to search out and kill the Viet Cong bases. Other times these missions who had nothing to do with the Viet Cong. trusting Americans. Not only that, to deal with the U.S. Air Force began spraying herbicides Sure, the herbicides cleared the jungles, kinds of health problems for people exposed to sprayed at least 19 million gallons of herbicides veterans and regular folks in these countries are In particular, Agent Orange has put millions By 1966, many South Vietnamese soldiers things were not going so Many around the world began to question why the Some of the biggest protests were actually back huge protests erupted on college campuses across be everywhere. Some protestors were upset that an underdeveloped country. Some protestors called war was simply not winnable. Other protestors common to see young people burning their draft about the fact that rich and powerful people FOUGHT it. A big reason why many Americans what the war looked like in real-time While the Johnson administration would give press news coverage on TV routinely showed children soldiers. People weren't falling for what Ya know, it's kinda like the government telling TikTok and you see the war crimes...and then Anyway, it's important to recognize that the war effort. Those who became known as while those who wanted to stop the war and bring arguably the first time the country was so divided the American Civil War. Tragically, many of the back home got no love. Many of these veterans greeted as heroes. Vietnam War veterans were often protestors sometimes harassed them. They didn't By the end of 1967, despite his impressive rights and social welfare programs, President said hey hey LBJ how many kids did you kill And yet, he insisted on finishing the job, even as others around him now had Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara. Once a in protest of it, and spent the rest of his Still, the war dragged on, with no clear victory which was the first day of Tet, the Vietnamese launched a huge coordinated attack on more than once. It later became known as the Tet Offensive, campaigns of the war. The Tet Offensive was a Cong went on...ya know...on offense, and it by surprise. In Hue, the same city where the prior, intense fighting took place that While the United States and South Vietnam were the Viet Cong during the Tet Offensive, to turn against the war. One poll showed of how President Johnson was handling it. he decided to not commit more troops , even an additional 206,000 troops. Johnson I shall not seek and I will of my party for another term as your president Two notable anti-war candidates ran to take his nomination- Eugene McCarthy, a U.S. Senator the brother of John F. Kennedy and now U.S. was assassinated on June 5, (yeah, he got switched to support McCarthy. Despite McCarthy presidential candidate, the party elites went instead. This led to a bunch of anti-war had supported continuing the war effort. Outside there were even violent confrontations Meanwhile, the Republican Party nominated Richard once aggressively called for sending more troops soft on Vietnam, but uh...now was like, hey I've also campaigned to end the draft. You could argue of 1968. That said, after he took office, he Besides, by that time peace talks between already begun in Paris, anyway. After strategy called "Vietnamization," which back over to South Vietnam. I mean, 1 out of every 12 South Vietnamese living In 1969, it had become increasingly clear that its military had been doing in Southeast Asia. Lai Massacre. It had occurred back in March 1968. entered a small village called My Lai trying to Cong, but instead they sexually assaulted several including mostly women, children, elderly men, and the U.S. Army covered it up. It was until Around that same time, Daniel Ellsberg which revealed that the American military in Vietnam without telling the public or wasn't mentioned in the Pentagon Papers, handling of the war. He made it a mission to Ellsberg as a heroic whistleblower and long While Nixon did begin bringing the troops home, the process wasn't happening quickly enough. Plus, Nixon ordered American forces to invade Cambodia, 1970. Nixon had NOT consulted Congress. At one University in Kent, Ohio on May 4, National Guard killing four and wounding nine. Today the horrific and yes I made a video about it, and yes it got because...ya know...I'm teaching you about Despite growing pressure to end the war honor." He sent his National Security Advisor, the North Vietnamese government. Of utmost of war released. By 1972, only around 24,000 North Vietnam stayed aggressive, dropping a known as the Easter Offensive. In response, Regardless, Nixon easily won re-election in a 1973, in what became known as the South Vietnam, and the United States finally troops to leave South Vietnam in exchange for this "peace agreement" smelled much more like an bombing Cambodia without getting approval from Congress passed the War Powers Resolution, the president to report to Congress within 48 action or "substantially" increasing the size of couldn't stay in combat somewhere for more than And then, on March 15, 1973, Nixon was like Vietnam again the United States might just go to goodness. Anyway, by then most By the end of 1974, North Vietnam was completely take it over, yep in direct North Vietnamese troops moved and captured Saigon on April 30, 1975. The marked not only the end of the Vietnam War, The communists had taken over all of Vietnam and -Legacy of The Vietnam War- The Vietnam War was the longest war only surpassed by the War in Afghanistan in 2021 hurt the reputation of the United States. It Today, the Vietnam War is seen as based on lies, that led to millions of innocent the United States had no business being a Nations wanted nothing to do with it. Most of the It left more than 58,000 American soldiers Many of those veterans who survived suffered from came home ignored....sometimes even despised. It devastated the forests of Southeast Asia. So war that Congress ratified the 26th Amendment, It was only during the 1990s when United States and Vietnam. Today, the two despite Vietnam still being Look, the United States wasn't used to losing defeating a great superpower such as the U.S. United States avoided getting involved in foreign demanded they not get involved. There's even 9/11 did that finally change, and even attempted to avoid sending ground troops. Needless to say, I didn't join the military after big reason why I didn't volunteer is because of I blame all those Vietnam War movies I used to somewhere constantly afraid of being ambushed. I I think it's safe to say if I graduated high MUCH more likely to join and serve. But in 2000, Folks, breaking news. I've This razor is made to freaking it's made with very high standards. This precision of it allows the razor to hold Also, using this razor is better Henson AL13 is completely plastic Most importantly, in the long-term, The upfront cost might be more but you're not man once you own a Hensen razor it's only about you shave so try it out for yourself the Link's in maybe you want me just to finally make that video I recently got a million subscribers thank I really exist it's true and you can real life events find out more details at my