What I'd like to do today is talk and that is the neuroscience of sleep. Now, there is a sound -- (Alarm clock) Ah, it worked! A sound that is desperately and of course it's the sound And what that truly ghastly, is stop the single most important that we have, and that's sleep. If you're an average sort of person, 36 percent of your life which means that if you live to 90, then 32 years will have Now what that 32 years is telling us And yet, for most of us, We throw it away. We really just don't think about sleep. And so what I'd like to do today change your ideas And the journey we need to start by going back in time. &quot;Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber.&quot; Any ideas who said that? Shakespeare's Julius Caesar. Yes, let me give you a few more quotes. &quot;O sleep, O gentle sleep, how have I frighted thee?&quot; Shakespeare again, from -- the Scottish play. (Laughter) From the same time: &quot;Sleep is the golden chain Extremely prophetic, by Thomas Dekker, But if we jump forward 400 years, the tone about sleep changes somewhat. This is from Thomas Edison, &quot;Sleep is a criminal waste of time Bang! (Laughter) And if we also jump into the 1980s, that Margaret Thatcher &quot;Sleep is for wimps.&quot; And of course the infamous -- the infamous Gordon Gekko &quot;Money never sleeps.&quot; What do we do in the 20th Well, of course, we use to invade the night, and in the process of this occupation, we've treated sleep as an illness, almost. We've treated it as an enemy. At most now, I suppose, and at worst perhaps as an illness that needs And our ignorance about sleep Why is it? Why do we abandon Well, it's because you don't do anything You don't eat. You don't drink. And you don't have sex. Well, most of us anyway. And so, therefore it's -- Sorry. It's a complete waste of time, right? Wrong. Actually, sleep is an incredibly and neuroscientists why it's so very important. So let's move to the brain. Now, here we have a brain. This is donated by a social scientist, and they said they didn't know what (Laughter) Sorry. So I borrowed it. I don't think they noticed. OK. (Laughter) The point I'm trying to make this thing doesn't shut down. In fact, some areas of the brain during the sleep state The other thing that's really is that it doesn't arise from a single but is to some extent a network property. If we flip the brain on its back -- I love this little bit this bit here is the hypothalamus, and right under there is a whole raft not least the biological clock. The biological clock tells us when it's good to be asleep, and what that structure does is interact with a whole raft of other areas the lateral hypothalamus, All of those combine, and they send projections The brain stem then projects forward and bathes the cortex, with neurotransmitters that keep us awake and essentially provide us So sleep arises from a whole raft of different interactions and essentially, as a result of a range OK. So where have we got to? We've said that sleep is complicated and it takes 32 years of our life. But what I haven't explained So why do we sleep? And it won't surprise as scientists, we don't have a consensus. There are dozens of different ideas and I'm going to outline three of those. The first is sort of the restoration idea, and it's somewhat intuitive. Essentially, all the stuff we restore, we replace, And indeed, as an explanation, so that's what -- 2,300 years ago. It's gone in and out of fashion. It's fashionable at the moment because what's been shown a whole raft of genes have been shown and those genes are associated So there's good evidence What about energy conservation? Again, perhaps intuitive. You essentially sleep to save calories. Now, when you do the sums, If you compare an individual or stayed awake the energy saving of sleeping Now, that's the equivalent Now, I would say that a hot dog bun is kind of a meager return for such a complicated So I'm less convinced But the third idea I'm quite attracted to, which is brain processing What we know is that, and you sleep-deprive individuals, the ability to learn that task is smashed. It's really hugely attenuated. So sleep and memory consolidation However, it's not just and recalling it. What's turned out to be really exciting is that our ability to come up is hugely enhanced by a night of sleep. In fact, it's been estimated Sleeping at night enhances our creativity. And what seems to be going on those neural connections those synaptic connections are linked and strengthened, while those that are less important OK. So we've had three explanations and I think the important thing to realize and it's probable we sleep But sleep is not an indulgence. It's not some sort of thing that we can I think that sleep was once from economy to business class, It's not even an upgrade The critical thing to realize is that you don't fly. Essentially, you never get there. And what's extraordinary is that we are desperately sleep-deprived. So let's now look at sleep deprivation. Huge sectors of society and let's look at our sleep-o-meter. So in the 1950s, good data were getting around eight hours Nowadays, we sleep one and a half so we're in the six-and-a-half-hours For teenagers, it's worse, much worse. They need nine hours and many of them, on a school night, It's simply not enough. If we think about other sectors if you are aged, then your ability is somewhat disrupted, less than five hours a night. Shift work. Shift work is extraordinary, perhaps 20 percent and the body clock does not shift It's locked onto the same So when the poor old to try and sleep during the day, the body clock is saying, So the quality of sleep is usually very poor, And then, of course, tens of millions So who here has jet lag? Well, my goodness gracious. Well, thank you very much because that's what your brain is craving. One of the things that the brain does this involuntary falling asleep, and you have essentially Now, micro-sleeps can be sort but they can also be deadly. It's been estimated will fall asleep at the wheel and in the US, the statistics 100,000 accidents on the freeway loss of vigilance, and falling asleep -- It's extraordinary. At another level of terror, we dip into the tragic and indeed the space shuttle Challenger, which was so tragically lost. And in the investigations poor judgment as a result and loss of vigilance and tiredness was attributed to a big chunk When you're tired and you lack sleep, you have poor memory, you have increased impulsiveness, and you have overall poor judgment. But my friends, (Laughter) If you are a tired brain, the brain is craving things to wake it up. So drugs, stimulants. Caffeine represents across much of the Western world. Much of the day is fueled by caffeine, and if you're a really naughty Of course, you're fueling the waking state and then, of course, it gets and the brain says to itself, &quot;Actually, I need What do we do about that Well, of course, Now alcohol, short-term, to use to mildly sedate you, It can actually ease the sleep transition. But what you must be so aware of A biological mimic for sleep, it sedates you. So it actually harms that's going on during memory So it's a short-term acute measure, but for goodness sake, don't become addicted to alcohol as a way of getting to sleep every night. Another connection If you sleep around then you have a 50 percent What's the connection here? Well, sleep loss seems to give rise the hunger hormone. Ghrelin is released. It gets to the brain. The brain says, &quot;I need carbohydrates,&quot; and what it does is seek out carbohydrates So there's a link between tiredness and the metabolic predisposition Tired people are massively stressed. And one of the things of stress, which is what I sort of just then But stress is so much more. So, if you're acutely stressed, but it's sustained stress associated Sustained stress leads And so, tired people tend to have and there's some very good studies showing that shift workers, for example, Increased levels of stress Glucose becomes a dominant part and essentially you become Therefore, diabetes 2. Stress increases cardiovascular disease So there's a whole raft of things that are more than just which is where I think most people think So at this point in the talk, &quot;Well, do you think on the whole So a quick show of hands. Who feels that they're getting Oh. Well, that's pretty impressive. Good. We'll talk more about that later, So most of us, of course, &quot;How do I know whether Well, it's not rocket science. If you need an alarm clock to get if you are taking a long time to get up, if you need lots of stimulants, if you're grumpy, if you're irritable, if you're told by your work colleagues chances are you are sleep-deprived. Listen to them. Listen to yourself. What do you do? Well -- and this is slightly offensive -- sleep for dummies. (Laughter) Make your bedroom a haven for sleep. The first critical thing is make it and also make it slightly cool. Very important. Actually, reduce your amount at least half an hour Light increases levels of alertness What's the last thing that most of us We stand in a massively lit bathroom, looking into the mirror It's the worst thing we can possibly do Turn off those mobile phones. Turn off all of those things Try not to drink caffeine ideally not after lunch. Now, we've set about reducing light but light exposure in the morning is very good at setting the biological So seek out morning light. Basically, listen to yourself. Wind down. Do those sorts of things that you know are going to ease you off into the honey-heavy dew of slumber. OK. That's some facts. What about some myths? Teenagers are lazy. No. Poor things. They have a biological predisposition so give them a break. We need eight hours of sleep a night. That's an average. Some people need more. And what you need to do Do you need that much or do you need more? Simple as that. Old people need less sleep. Not true. The sleep demands of the aged Essentially, sleep fragments but sleep requirements do not go down. And the fourth myth makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise. Well, that's wrong (Laughter) There is no evidence that getting up early gives you more wealth at all. There's no difference In my experience, the only difference between morning is that those people that get up are just horribly smug. (Laughter) (Applause) OK. So for the last few minutes, what I want to do is change gears and talk about some really new, which is the association mental illness and sleep disruption. We've known for 130 years there is always, always sleep disruption, but it's been largely ignored. In the 1970s, when people started they said, &quot;Yes, well, of course you have because they're on antipsychotics. It's the antipsychotics causing ignoring the fact that sleep disruption had been reported So what's going on? Several groups are studying conditions like depression, and what's going on We have a big study which we published and the data were quite extraordinary. In those individuals with schizophrenia, much of the time, they were awake and then they were asleep during the day. Other groups showed no 24-hour their sleep was absolutely smashed. And some had no ability to regulate They were getting up later and later It was smashed. So what's going on? And the really exciting news is that mental illness and sleep but they are physically linked The neural networks that predispose give you normal sleep, and those that give you normal And what's the evidence for that? Well, genes that have been shown to be very important when mutated, when changed, also predispose individuals And last year, we published a study which showed that a gene when mutated, also smashes the sleep. So we have evidence between these two important systems. Other work flowed from these studies. The first was that sleep disruption actually precedes certain types and we've shown that who are at high risk they already have a sleep abnormality prior to any clinical The other bit of data may actually exacerbate, make worse, My colleague Dan Freeman which have stabilized sleep in those individuals by 50 percent. So what have we got? We've got, in these connections, In terms of the neuroscience, by understanding these two systems, we're really beginning to understand are generated and regulated The second area and sleep disruption then we have the chance of going in. If we know these individuals early intervention then becomes possible. And the third, which I think is that we can think as a new therapeutic target. Stabilize sleep in those individuals we can certainly make them healthier, but also alleviate some of the appalling So let me just finish. What I started by saying is: Our attitudes toward sleep from a pre-industrial age, when we were almost wrapped in a duvet. We used to understand intuitively And this isn't some sort This is a pragmatic response If you have good sleep, attention, decision-making, If you get sleep, it reduces your levels of anger, your impulsivity, and your tendency to drink and take drugs. And we finished by saying that an understanding is really informing the way we think about some of the causes and indeed is providing us new ways to treat these incredibly Jim Butcher, the fantasy writer, said, &quot;Sleep is God. Go worship.&quot; And I can only recommend Thank you for your attention. (Applause)