This is nice. Thank you for turning out for It it means a lot. It really does. Thank you to me too. About this movie. Uh, how old were you when you got this job? Um, 13. I'm 13. In the film. You were not a rookie actor, though, by any That's true. George Roy Hill I think one of the things come and see me performing at the Public Joseph Papp was allowing us to actually And there was quite a kerfuffle at that Broadway with it. There was a there were telegram between Joseph Papp and Laurence They were they were they were ticked off a opportunity. Oh. So what kept you from from going to Yeah. They wouldn't let me. They were they were mad and said, you can't Wow. So fair. Enough. And so but you'd been. What was your first time on the stage off Oh, that was for, uh, la mama Experimental My, uh, fairy godmother is and always will Who put that place on the map. That's so great. See, I was going to. You're in the. You're in. This is the right crowd for you. Okay, I'm preaching to the choir. Okay. But, uh, yeah. So, uh, that was 1971 when I auditioned to Not a happy fate for her. Um, and that was in the original Euripides Uh, so the audition consisted of me saying And can I hold a note? I mean, it was very basic for six year old. And then I got the part and and what I told him you were five. Yeah, it's not Hollywood, it's New York. Um, I, I was supposed to be 7 to 9 years Was the window. Uh, so I turned seven, and I was like, I But anyway, they we all figured it out. So it's funny the things that freak you out But. So George Roy Hill saw you. You had not done a movie before. Um, so. And this is not an ordinary movie. You're not going to a studio in New York or You're immediately flying. Did you have to audition, or did he just Oh, no. I auditioned a lot. In fact, there was a recent viral, I don't was a video of me very awkwardly stating my The Outsiders, which is untrue. I looked at that immediately and I knew, oh Somebody saved it somewhere. And it's when I met with, um, Marion the documentary about her. She's a may, timeless maven of her craft. But anyway, um, that was at the old Gulf and that piece of property. But anyway, um, you know. Yeah, I auditioned a lot for it, I think. And I remember coming out to Los Angeles to were around. They were older than me, and I the fact that I was going to have to cry and And I didn't know either. And it was, uh, it was a shared journey. Yeah. Was it a difficult thing to do or when it And by the way, just to be clear, to cry, cry on cue in the film for the film. Yeah. That was not required in the audition. Happily. Um. And did you, uh, when the moment came, Yeah. Has it always come relatively easily No, not not always. Um, I mean, I'm not Clara Bow. She was famous for it. Yeah. Her childhood was a little worse than Um. Oh, actresses. Um, but all kidding aside, um, yeah, the, already enough to dine out on for the rest Totally. So, um, he was such a gentleman, Thelonious Bernard. The young, the young boy Um, I always want to know where he is and But I hope he's happy, and I hope he's. Why do I think he became a dentist? Because I said in the press that he said to mathematician, anything but an actor. Uh, after it was over. But he was very 14 and De La Rue and so he, ball at the behind the assistant casting And she said, hey, you, what are you doing And he said, hey, where are you? And he was like, that's easy. Come, come, come to me. I've got a job for you. So that was his audition. And he's he I mean, he is he's wonderful. It's amazing that he. Yeah. He's amazing. Really so good in the film. So the. So now you can dine out on stories about, But at 13, did you know. That was the big. Question. Did you I mean, did you even. But you you knew that meant something. Olivier still meant me sweat. I mean, to this day, I'm having memories of you're working with? Uh, to this day. And now we're deja vu. It's all happening again. Yes, I knew I had seen on. We had three channels and then some other And on some of those other channels, they And among them was hamlet and um. Oh, God. Now I'm going to block on Laurence But, I mean, I had seen Rebecca, I had seen craft of acting. That was it. He was the one that everybody not that. And and he's, he's the one. And, and even more than in movies on the Right. I mean, it was you could. Not get to see him on stage. Right. But but every actor you worked with that's Yes. Yeah. And there are funny stories. And he would love to tell off color jokes That was his right. That was my next question. Do you have any Great. Yeah. So, no. Okay, great. Um. It's a different era. Um, so then your, you know, your entire first of all, tell people before we get more have much time, but give them, uh, what was Who'd you live with? And and what did what would. My autobiography. Yeah, but we only have, like, four minutes, I Yeah. Well, I was living in New York City. I had been working for la mama for years and Meryl Streep and Irene Worth and Raul Julia So I was I was kind of amazed at my own good gig. Um, and my father had elected to drive create your own hours and be there as a at 11:00 at night when the show was over, good in school. Um, all of those things. But, um, my mother was, uh, had met my He before my father. Was an acting teacher. Yes. Before I was born. Yeah, in the 50s, um, pretty long before I But, um. Yeah, he and John Cassavetes ran an acting It was called the Cassavetes Laine Theater together. And dad said, uh, well, he'd make kitchen sink movies. And he was mortified. He didn't understand that this was a new Um, and he'd said that John took the wheels holding up car lamps and that was the the It was like guerrilla filmmaking, you know, The, uh. So then you go to Europe to make this film. And did you how different was it for you? Instantly, you must realize the difference every night on stage and making a film. Everything's different. Yes, it's it's. Far more intimate. It's far more, um, in-your-face. It's far more, um. I was used to the team sport of theatre. You have a family. You're delivering milk to kittens that want It's a very different, uh, experience. Uh, filming on the street is still a little what's going on over there? Oh, look, they're making a movie. Hey. And you're like, oh, my God. So it's just a whole other kettle of fish. Yeah. And the stopping and the starting and the Oh yes. And the different angles. And guess what? You're going to do it 15 Oh, perfect. Wasn't good enough. We have to do it again. And what was you know, I didn't meet George I have thankfully spent some time. Can we have a moment of applause for this I'm such a fan of his. And he led the charge in terms of so many Uh, he said in his, um, promotional moments. In watching him do promotion for the film, I We're going to talk about it. Oh, God. Uh, over and over and over. Do you know what it's like to work with Uh, but, um. He said that all his films were about the amazing to have a theme behind all of his That was his take on his lead characters, innocence. And I think that's so endearing. What a wonderful approach to any human So I've asked people who worked with him and why? And it's different in this crowd, but of his era and there were so many, that name And because you were talking about than one person is he just hated that part He didn't hate the business. He didn't hate He didn't want they were done. He did not want to promote them. He didn't want to talk about himself. Yeah, because he shared that with Paul Well, Paul Newman didn't like it either. That's right. Yeah, of course. But Paul Paul Newman had no choice, right? No. Well, after The Sting and the Butch together, I mean. And and the movie that they made immediately know, I mean, I love slapshot and now I'm Sure. It's that movie about the loss of That's right. Yeah, yeah, there's a spectrum. No. But but that's actually not a hard argument Um, so how does your life change? Well, first of all, let's get you to talk a Now, we are here as we close in on this Wow. Um. Don't rush me. What. Are you going to come back in a couple of Um. How do you where do you where do you put As you think back on your life, everything up. I don't mean to suggest that you're Where in the scope of things does little a Where does it where is it featured? Um, well, it was my, um, birth of my career. You know, I had no frame of reference about You can't get luckier than this. That's it. It's just so, you know, I can vouch for And I knew it, and. And I felt, um, incredibly, uh, like, how You know, what's how do you follow up this, Time magazine came out, and it wasn't even successful or not because the film hadn't It was just the anomaly of young people You were on the cover of time magazine, That was for the release of this yeah yeah Funny, whatever. I've just been amazed ever since. I still am. I don't know if you ever get Did the fact. The the fact that this happened when you were that helps that maybe you don't put as much comes. Next. Absolutely. I didn't you know, I there are people who, control over their careers. And I just go, how nice for you. Um, please. I don't even know what to say to that. So I'm just, uh, one step at a time. After that, you do the best you can with You. You kind of roll with it. You. You just show up and do your best. That's really all there is to do. And sometimes you have to take mental health because it's so all up in your business, and to, you know, would they stick a microphone And what are you going to talk about? You know, my mommy and my daddy, you know, You don't want to be outing your family I don't even know if if you know or like her, this festival, uh, before a screening of Yes. And here we are. I loved her yesterday. With two with just, uh, with with, uh, with people and then managed to figure it out. And we know how incredibly hard it can be to I'm sure you've had difficulties in your out. It's nice. Thank you. Well, she has always been a lodestar. And, you know, I remember, um, sitting with Well, my dad is a taxi driver. That will mess you up. And, uh, that's another thing I overcame, Yeah, but, yeah, she was has always been So even before your, you know, before you're Ford Coppola like these are your these are Uh, and you've worked for the entire Coppola You did Eleanor's first film? Yeah. Eleanor got to. Rest. Eleanor, who just just just died Um, so, like, did you is there what was your different approaches that two great and then that Francis Ford Coppola takes with him, right? Yes. The first of four films for Francis Ford Cotton Club and then Jack. Yeah, yeah. First time I played a mom. Sally Kellerman plays my mother in this Love her. I didn't get to tell her how much I always wondered, was I your first? Because you never forget your first when So Sally Kellerman plays. Robin Williams for me. Sally Kellerman plays your mom. And a little romance. She's not, um, she's The actor's great, right? They're the best moms for cinema, though. Oh, no. Totally. So. But so let me ask you that, then. The mom that you'll see here how many people Oh, look at that. This is. Great. Oh, you're in for a treat. It's not like the kind. We're not going to There's not. This is not about. There's nothing to spoil here. This is an experience. This film washes. Over you too much, then. No no no no no, it's, uh. But that's a that's the that kind of mom, I in a sense. Right. There's a that could be the case. Yeah. I just know that she was. I didn't realize that all of these amazing uh, kind of a fan base and an expectation You know, I just knew that they were them. And then and then it washed over me How amazing each one of these actors are in, they were by the industry to get this, their And also, there's a moment at a party in the Broderick. Matthew Broderick Crawford. Broderick Crawford. Yeah. Broderick Crawford plays himself here. He plays himself. And he says the picture Was I ever in a picture with Ward bond? I don't know was I? Yeah. And I thought, oh so he's he's playing Then I realized, no, he's just worked a lot And that happens, you know. Well last thing I got to go but we got so was Well take as much time 19. That's 19 seconds. So how patient like on a How what how patient on a scale of 1 to 6 kids? Oh, wow. I don't even have a scale to measure that. Because when you're the kid, you have so Uh, you know, it's like walking skinless in You're just. Everything hurts when you're Um, so you have to let go of, of your own you, which is actually a break. So I was happy to live up to somebody I didn't know what I expected of myself. Some over the moon. Impossible act of perfection. But, yeah. No, he was very patient. Well, um. Uh, I guess I don't know whether I'd call close as movies come. Oh, uh, it's a beautiful film. I wish they could remake this movie, but they It's a different time and a different place. Yeah. Which is also a treat in itself to run And it wouldn't be as good and as we see, to find. A lot of people haven't seen it. And as it we just hope more and more people So after you see it, tell your friends, uh, Won best, uh score. Didn't best score. Yeah. Won best score. Thank you everybody. Thanks everybody.