Hey, everybody. Don Georgevich here. And today, I'm going to show you how to answer So, do you know why employers even ask this Its because they find it in a list of questions That's it! Because it has no real bearing on the job. And I mean, in my opinion, it doesn't mean It doesn't help an employer qualify you for So, I don't want to spend a lot of time talking If anything, we should be talking about my I can't do for you. It doesn't make sense. It's a stupid question, but you have to satisfy to know the answer to this. But I guarantee you, your answer to this question they're going to hire you or not. But I'm going to give you an answer that's This is the type of person that we do want weren't expecting. So, you have to understand; there are two There are personality traits and you have So, when you're answering this question, you personality trait or a skill to talk about A skill related example is usually best. But I've used personality traits and skills Some people will tell you not to use a personality are more inborn and they're harder to correct So, if you have some personality traits that them by the time you're interviewing at a So, that's why some people will shy away from But I'm going to show you how you can use So, here's what I like to tell employers when weakness? And this is a universal answer It kind of goes like this; deadline, I can be impatient. And some people might interpret my impatience But I'm working on a project for a customer on other people who have promised me something, their own deadlines. So, what I've done so people don't think I'm I tell them upfront, before we even start running behind and you might interpret that When I'm working for a customer, that's what And this little disclaimer before a project work. And if you were to ask them about me, they with me and that's no joke. So, what I've just done is give you an example And for the most part, I think all people I mean, everybody gets a little impatient something. So, this type of personality trait is something I mean, if you were to tell me the same thing, I don't like waiting on people either. If I need something, and I'm waiting on you me from doing my job, that makes me a little that makes me a little curt. I might raise my voice. So, I think giving that type of answer is job. But make sure that it's right for you. It has to fit your background and your experience. It may not work for everybody, but it is very So, what's the best way to talk about a skill Now, the trick to this is you want to keep where that experience or that skill is not So, you want to talk about a problem you had that really doesn't matter to them that So, let me give you a personal skills example. So, for me, it was teaching engineering classes. My boss came to me and said, Hey, Don. We want you to start teaching network engineering stuff that you know. For me, I was terrified. I didn't know how to teach. I didn't know how to present ideas to other So, what do I do? I learned how to do it. I educated myself and I practiced. And I overcame that hurdle. So, the teaching was no longer an issue for So, when I would go an interview for a job I might tell them. Ill say, You know what? I used to be really bad at teaching engineering And then I overcame that inability and now a room full of people. So, most of the jobs that I interviewed at, They were looking for a consultant. So, I gave them an example from a past experience skill was not required at this new job. So, it was a great way to answer the week pick a skill from your past experience that this job. That's all there is to it and you've got the That's all I have for you today my friend. We'll see you next time. Thanks again for watching this video. If you like it, share it with a friend and And if you're looking for more great answers over to jobinterviewtools.com and download It is going to teach how to answer over a to face on your next interview. Thanks again for watching. I'll see you next time. If you found this video helpful, then give to my channel, so you get notifications every And by subscribing, you support me, my message So, I'd really appreciate it. Make sure you hit Subscribe.