So I also don't know how to read ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs. That is totally unacceptable I'm Ilona Regulski I'm the curator for Museum. And I'm Nick and usually I'm one of the but today I am fulfilling my seemingly official does not know how to read or write in after so many of you have requested, more reading has said that we can have a go at reading This is a lintel that was set up as above a famous kings of ancient Egypt Amenemhat III of the in English but hopefully by the end of this I can to hearing it as hieroglyphics not hieroglyphs? definitely wrong we haven't even started trying to the difference? It's hieroglyphs it should be like hieroglyphs, hieroglyphic, hieroglyphics. a noun. So it's better to say hieroglyphs for We're already doing grammar and we haven't even any of that kind of grammar today with The beautiful hieroglyphs actually represent the there. I promise I won't overload you with So I'm going to be honest - we have talked a how much alone Ilona loves grammar. This is a huge know that I know any grammar but we will find out. the only thing I know about Egyptian hieroglyphs because cartouche is like the only thing any of that's how we started deciphering hieroglyphs. so the deciphers also started with the Royal cartouche is basically a shen ring. Shen is never ending and there's a lot of symbolism eternal ring because they're actually saying the see that it's a bit elongated to accommodate the symbol by itself it would be more like a ring and How do we read the royal name? yeah yeah how hieroglyphs are not written after each other the visual appearance of the sign really. The hieroglyphs tend to stand on their own whereas are arranged so that they fit in a square. This because it did have that emblematic display first three hieroglyphs you have an elongated letter L. Then the second sign is a mn sign. This board it's a game. And the game was called Mn and word that needs a mn sound without referring to the water wave which is the letter n And the precedes it. So we just read this as Imn which The owl can function as a letter 'M'. So with the letter M. But in this case it's a Underneath the owl in the cartouche we have the front of a lion. So that is relatively easy and word. It's actually a little bread, a piece of So we have Amenemhat and the entire name means So I think I'm with you so far. Only question would be composed - as in the name within as opposed to stone or is it always the same So hieroglyphs were mostly carved on monumental On papyrus they would probably have written like handwriting. So the name Amenemhat would were quite flexible with their spelling. horizontally from right to left. So there's right to left or left to right and Vertical in how to read hieroglyphs by looking at the signs in this case the birds. The birds will look at the That's how you know where to start. So does that a stupid question here without without question - hawkey boy on the big stone with the face on it yes it's a face. Okay, cool it's definitely a crocodile that's looking the opposite way. So outwards again or is it like from this point so here because we have an architectural piece they're a little bit more flexible with their it has to look beautiful. So this is not just a it's a piece of visual display of the building of each individual column depending on where the bird is facing the god Horus and Horus is looking at the Sobek, the laying crocodile, is facing the direction here and that's what the Egyptians like like to exploit this very characteristic feature basically. Not to keep going back to Primary to do with hieroglyphs - not hieroglyphics - they and so colourful but like there's a certain also aware of how beautiful they are because absolutely they are. Each individual hieroglyph But yeah so this has not only the function of it's part of a royal building. It's suddenly people actually made, which I know sounds really oh you actually have to think of the person, and having the skill of carving and hieroglyphs in education? Did they have to go out and like do the essence or would they be looking at 'this is It's quite interesting because when they composed environment, at nature, and they drew upon what postures of human beings. So it's quite they select something as a hieroglyph? There's but yeah I mean it requires a lot of practice and sure that the falcon is recognizable as a falcon. be a scribe has to go out bird watching every day... they would be sitting in the nature. They would try to copy them. So we have a few examples in Ahh the grid lines! ...because: here's a quick example that I have seen in the exhibition - which grid lines. I assumed that that was an unfinished this case it is but so grid lines often mean that still working on it. But in a few cases we over the hieroglyphs, where it's clear that they much older because we are talking about 4,000 could go to a pyramids of the Old Kingdom and find some of the writing. So some guy if it's really high up gonna have to and then they would have what? Like a slate and that very well preserved but they were probably sculptors would use to learn to carve. And also in we have little pieces of stone with sometimes one they were practicing. But even that trial piece who had had a lot of practice. So you have a lot carver then? To kind of 'how do I want to express it well enough? Yeah although the carver would would have been laid out or drawn by a drafts in ink and then the sculptor or the Carver would to the example that is already there. So he So someone would literally... would they be painting royal inscription so they wouldn't take too many it out and copy me and kind of thing? Something protective circle I assume? So maybe we should of the lintel we have the title of the king and the lord of the two lands'. The 'King of Upper is of course a very important title. It shows parts of Egypt; the North and the South; which king symbolically has to reunite the country by a plant like hieroglyph, followed by a 't'. And my favourite hieroglyphs. It's so beautiful and it 'Lower Egypt' - so the northern part of Egypt. And we say 'nsw.t bity'. Nsw.t refers to Upper Egypt ending of the words and what we don't see spelled belonging to the Sut-land' and 'the one belong the king. Nsw.t also the name for the king in it can also be used on its own. The bity is king. So the living king and the ancestral king I think I processed all that. You can Upper and Lower Egypt'. And I suppose it's so you don't need to quite literally spell so common that they also abbreviated it massively. Lands'. The baskets is the word 'neb'. That is depends very much on the context. In this it's followed by two horizontal flat signs And ancient Egyptians didn't only have singular which we call 'dual'. I don't think we have and they can write this by having the noun can just repeat the sign twice, and this is what The neb comes back underneath the two lands. So by 'Lord who does... something? The following to create, to make' and then the lintel breaks off from parallel texts, from other texts and similar making offerings'. So the word for offerings is the word is the verb 'to do' and is written hieroglyphs following to indicate the tense of the So the ancient name of the city where it was twice in this inscription and to make it easy for the Egyptians like to do that! It's written in the where you see the falcon who is Horus - he's just in fact. Inside the rectangle you see a few hieroglyph followed by the heart. And the face and means 'who is in'. So the face is a preposition mean because, it can mean upon, but together the heart is inside, so you are really inside the face of a bucranium (or something like for Egyptian writing. It is a reference to and is a reference for the town Shedet. So we Shedet appears again in the other column shrine and it is followed by a kind of strange basically a bag to carry water. And it's 'shed' means? That it's feminine right? Yeah, very good! word because in fact like in many languages, names lot of geographical references are feminine. In heads on top of it again, but here it appears is a little bit complicated. It's 'Shedety' - 'the to the to your 'hieroglyphics' which is; Shedet an adjective. They don't want to say Shedet, they is from Shedet'. And they do that by adding an 'y' written with two diagonal strokes. But because they just repeat the shrine twice. Oh that's so a way, it's classifying the noun, but by putting So I had, and I'm going to be quite frank get a gold star at some point for pointing out just a stretched out version of this thing. composition. I was thinking like ah it wouldn't everything with the 't', like it all fits in very but it's so cool that they get to duplicate it if you want to know the exact term for it. for more hieroglyphs so we absolutely want to crocodile Sobek is the one of Shedet. So Sobek and it does leave us with the long thin I'm imagining it's three sets of things? Yeah here we have a beautiful verb again. The can't tell Ilona really likes verbs. I like verbs. sheet for this, something entirely different. big smile here. But anyway the verbal system So here is the verb 'to give' and what is the given is 'life and prosperity/stability' which is may know as a sign of life. And it's followed by is a bundle of stalks put together and it means emblematic inscription it's it's meant to display but usually in a construction like this it's given' - which is a passive participle Awesome. And sorry just to clarify because I think I might have misheard. So ankh I get. Seen it I heard a pile of socks? I can't be right? really don't recognize in all of this, which it in maybe not the platypus on a spit roast, um except for yeah this. Is this like a of stalks. Like a kind of vegetation that is like to make something more stable. This probably with organic material and were binding these a fence or something like that. Again looking at pointed out like I probably would have said that it was a bug. The basket I would have said it was once upon a time this inscription was probably have been more recognizable. So the basket could but it could have had some kind of decoration it's possible. So that would have made it because it's just so impressive, so you do kind of and not only they would have been painted there paint was not just too for decorative purposes, it characters. Running on from that, do we have many how to read that, but we have no idea what that concepts very much, or is it much more here's a a group of signs in our sign lists - because we usually organize the hieroglyphs according to our predecessors - and there is one category that we still cannot identify for sure, even though in because they are combined with other signs that but we don't actually know what the picture are Here we know we can identify every sign. Right entire inscription, you want to have a go? I can you're expecting me to remember the names of read them! Well this is the thing. Just look being genuine, I've got two problems here. One: so fantastic, but the other thing is that the can do certain bits and not necessarily others. I know that because the heart is in the human and construct and the thing and I also remember we have that because there's a double shut it big who is of or from that place because they're it more artistically so they're doing it with two then we go for okay so Upper and Lower Egypt as both being underlined by the T which is letting weird flower is upper and the B is lower yeah okay pretty much just hammering that home and then he's time to talk about the verb because the stuff is about a verb so I will never forget that an eye of I remember what they do so they are provider stability because they're stacking up all the instability that's what the two gods are doing name of it's not a mediter it's the other one okay and then they are enshrined for eternity in and translation of the lintel of Eminem hot so king of Upper and Lower Egypt lord of probably the part has disappeared we have Sobek sabak shadati Sobek to one of shadets who has been given or who gives life and stability thank you very much I genuinely feel like I might a little bit if you have enjoyed this video you and how they were deciphered and what they sound AV today in the space because we need to talk hear how these words are spoken um hieroglyphs 19th and I I can play favorites I think it's my really really good um it genuinely it really with thank me um I mean you're dangerous place I hope you enjoyed learning hieroglyphs