Hm. Breaking a spear shaft with a shield. Would that work? Probably not. You can cut through a spear shaft, but it takes several It's not a lightsaber. Hi, I'm Matt Easton of Schola Gladiatoria, and I teach people how and swords and daggers, and I also deal in antique weapons. I've been teaching people how So today we're going to be looking at some polearm combat scenes from movies to judge how real they are. OK, so stabbing the foot And I think a lot of people but funnily enough, there's from the early 16th century stabbing the opponent in the foot and stabbing them in the crotch. So absolutely it was done. This kind of distraction tactic is in medieval treatises, so I love it. OK, whoa, whoa, whoa! They're, like, flipping this, spinning this thing around. So, this is a thrusting weapon, but she is twirling it around like a snooker cue in a bar fight. That's not going to have It's not a good striking weapon. Thrust with it. It's a spear. Taking turns. So, this is a favorite way for multiple people to attack a hero in a movie, or a big villain, is to take turns at attacking them. Just attack them at the same time. Don't go one, two, three, four. So if they are trying to surround him, they should still have their spear points forward predominantly and form essentially a Perhaps the only excuse is they're trying to capture him rather than trying to kill him. One of the things that really bugs me about spear use in &quot;Black Panther&quot; is that the spears are used Now, not to say you can't use You can strike with a spear, it's just not the most efficient and effective way of using a spear. If you've got a sharp So, I've got to be honest. I am going to give it a 3 out of 10. So, tridents absolutely most famously by Roman That's the most famous example, but tridents did continue The fact that you've got the fact that they are heavier. designed for fighting against armor. In that sense, that makes them And he seems to have a a little bit lower down, because there's a parallel there as well, which That's not only to protect the hand, but it's also to give So if you're fighting in armor and you plant the cross, as it's called, in their armpit and you want to push them, it gives you something So, one of the first things to note is how twirly this fight is. I'm not a huge fan of such turning. I mean, they turn their So, there's a really nice technique there where he basically turns around his opponent's neck It's sort of an impression that we do see in historical treatises. And in armor, this is a very good way of overcoming someone. They can get up, but it's not that easy That gives you the while they're on the And you can look for like their armpits. There's a really nice technique there where the bad guy, one end And so he swings the other to strike with the back end. And, again, that's completely If one end gets occupied or dealt with, then that being pushed aside, you immediately come or the middle. I would give this about a 5. So, &quot;Troy&quot;'s really, really interesting because it's one of those where we see them spear and shield together. You know, the spear and the standard dueling weapon for heroes to fight with And you only have to look to see the two heroes standing with the spear raised and Achilles lances his spear out at maximum length with a thrust. And that is predominantly how spears are supposed to be used. You grip it as near to as you possibly can. It's actually remarkably difficult to find an opening to stab with a spear if the opponent has a That's why people used them. Really, really nice detail there. We see Achilles switching So he's using both ends of it. And in fact, we know in spears often have two ends on them. Throughout history, have two ends on them. So you can stab with but you can also stab with It's not usually so sharp or so big, because it has to stand on the but nevertheless, if you're it's fairly unpleasant. So, there was one little that kind of bugs me. Hector basically kind of And now, with a typical it's not going to have a So I suppose it's fair that in a pinch you might do this to especially if it's kind of face level. So it's going to make a but even if it had connected, it wouldn't have done It would've been like being Resting the spear on his back and thrusting over the top of his shield, this is incredibly short range Hm. Breaking a spear shaft with a shield. Would that work? Probably not. Look at movies where are chopped through with a sword. We've done experiments, You can cut through a spear shaft, but it takes several It's not a lightsaber. Breaking through one with So, really, spear shafts are designed to be relatively durable. Relatively light, but not super light, but pretty strong. If they're not strong, then they're not going to We see Achilles' spear get Now, this is slightly more plausible. I don't think it would be However, it's more plausible but this is an Olympic-style javelin. It's not really a weapon. If it's the same as a typical one, it's an aluminium tube with a So this is not something that's designed to penetrate thick clothing or go through armor or anything. And I have to say, they're I mean, if you stepped on one, She's using it like a giant lightsaber, as if it's magically Oh, a double stab. So, finally she thrust with it. I have no issue with that. She actually used a spear but what's all the swinging it around? It's not going to cut anything. I'm going to give this a 1 out of 10. It really, really bugs me It is the most stupid way that he could have used this spear. Basically he could have won this fight in the first few seconds if Instead he uses it like, I He thrusts with the wrong foot backward, giving himself the minimum reach. He's got enough space, to occupy that space with and keep the opponent in front of him. So the main advantage of any polearm, but particularly of spears, is reach. But with reach also comes leverage. The two things go hand in hand. A small movement at the back end means a large movement at the top end. So, quite simply, if you're trying to get you can go from high to low. You could go above the in the blink of an eye, which takes longer to do with a sword. The usual balance is a spear person can beat two swords people if there's no armor and A spear is a game changer. Spears can block with You can block with the tail end. Sometimes the middle of The problem with using the middle is it means any defense But most predominantly, spears are used with the and most of the defense will The way he used this spear is infuriating. And at one point he's pointing backwards away from the opponent while holding the blunt end outwards. I mean, he doesn't even It's an entirely metal Generally you wouldn't entirely out of metal because although it would be stronger, it would be so heavy that it would give up the advantages that the spear has. If you make it heavy, it also makes it far easier for the opponent to grab. Although they have a lot of advantages of reach and leverage, they are way, way easier to grab, for the opponent to grab hold of, than something like a sword. A sword is mostly blade, This particular fight will of 2 out of 10. I love this episode, but Too much swinging of the Thrusting doesn't look It's also slightly more Despite the fact that in the modern world we probably think of axes or swords associated with Vikings, in any army in the so-called Dark Ages, in the early medieval period, the spear and shield was the They fought in shield walls with a spear. Yeah, richer people might have a sword and other people might have an ax, but those are weapons that once you've closed beyond spear range. One of the great things about spears is they are one of the best hand weapons that you can have in your hand, and they're also a really At any moment they can get thrown, and psychologically that makes a huge difference within the fight. Even if the opponent the knowledge that they could throw it at any moment as a javelin It makes sure you keep your shield up. It makes you very wary. I've once been in a fight where the opponent had a spear and shield, I had sword and shield. So I'm up there preparing and my torso against the spear throw, and I get a spear right in the leg. And if that had been a real then I wouldn't have Throwing spears are incredibly powerful. They will stick deeply into a shield. If they hit you in the body, I mean, they'll go and they'll also penetrate I would give this 6 out of 10. So, what we see here is These are Macedonians, but pike phalanxes were used They were used by the Romans initially. It's very good against cavalry. It makes it very difficult for cavalry to operate on the battlefield. These are very, very long spears. You're far more limited You don't generally turn them although these pikes do on the back end with a spike on it. Now, that's partially so you can turn it around still as a weapon. Also, it so you can hold more of Hoplites were quite characteristic for using the pike two-handed. They needed to use it two-handed because it was so big but they also used shields. And so what they did is in such a way that they to some degree, obviously protection against arrows, but also protection against enemy pikes. This has been represented So, against arrows it's difficult because you're holding a and you've kind of got It's not that easy to, at that because you're not in the typical way, and also the shield doesn't The problem with arrows is they'll find, it doesn't matter how good the armor is or what shields you're carrying, they will find gaps. So absolutely peppering it is good advice. So, one little detail, it makes it look like the pike is traveling very, very And the one thing you is they don't move quickly because they only move as You can stab a bit with a pike, but it doesn't go through 8 out of 10. So, it's a massive, massive glaive. Yeah, glaive is an that's essentially like on the end of a stick. So it has the reach of a polearm, but it has the cutting and type of a sword. And it would be a form of dao. A dao is a single-edged weapon. So it's something that's That's a very, very big glaive head. So this is a heavy polearm. OK. I actually like the cutting They're pretty good, but why have they got He shouldn't have allowed the If you get to grappling distance, the swordsman has the advantage. [laughs] The spinning around the neck, it's not something you'd really want to do in a real fight at all, unless you wanted to lose. I wouldn't say he's necessarily holding it in the most logical way, because he's given up all by holding it across his body. The opponent's got a sword. He's got a weapon that's twice its length, so he should be using the reach advantage. I mean, it's beautifully choreographed, but a lot of it is totally unrealistic to how you'd actually use those weapons. And that goes for the 3 out of 10. So, the bad guy has what we would call, we'd probably call it a form of halberd. So a halberd is essentially an ax blade with a rear spike, and usually they have a top spike. But if the ax blade is shaped then you don't need an Now, the way he's using it, [laughs] it looks comedic, but actually, can you think, how intimidating that would be? This is a weapon which weighs, probably if it was a real probably about 6 pounds. If someone's got a 6-pound weapon, of which about 5 pounds and they're whirling it around, that's really, really intimidating. One hit from that and you're going down. Absolutely the right thing I really, really liked it as a fight. An 8 out of 10. I would say that out of the movies that we've looked at today, &quot;Troy&quot; is the first one that comes to mind that actually shows I think that this is one of the Thanks so much for watching. I hope you've enjoyed this video. Why don't you click on this one up here to see something else that