During World War II, Americans to support troops overseas. People changed jobs, took on and even changed their diets. The military got the best tightened their belts and But instead of grumbling So today we're going to take to survive during World War II. But before we get started, to the Weird History Channel. After that, we'd appreciate it and let us know what you would like to hear about. OK get your bib, it's time to vittles. [MUSIC PLAYING] As World War II the United States realized that the military with the general population rubber, paper and In order to make sure what it needed to win the was imposed. Here's how it worked. The government gave every a certain number of points. Those points would then have on any item restricted So for example, in 1943, a points, in addition which was about $0.30. The points took the form of would distribute in books. The Office of Price would have volunteers and explain their purpose to The first product tires, followed by Then in May 1942, the government including sugar and A few months later, meats, fish, were also deemed restricted. Any time a new item hoarders would clean the stores Inevitably, many of would be traded on Despite these problems functioned well enough. Similar restrictions were of America's European allies. With so many basic the public was going to have [MUSIC PLAYING] Sponge cake is a simple delicacy don't realize it, it's since the renaissance. The secret to its that it's delicious and easy to the ingredients, flour, were in heavy Eggs and sugar were especially stores around the world. The Welsh version of the sponge but with a lot of Jam was usually spread in layers. It wasn't as fluffy as what but if cooked properly it [DRUMMING SOUND] During World War II , a sobering was wiped out in the fighting. Germans snatched which meant the to do their best with they still had access to. Not every meal however, Potato flour sour was meant to be served with a favorite of Polish children. The sour cream was made of which some of you is similar to a standard Maria Karpowiczowa, a woman collected World War Instead of the potato indulge themselves cover the dumplings with a In England, cooks did their of dietary normalcy. One of the ways by frying what came to be The fillets were cooked in fillet, but with rice. To make mock fish fillets, into a half inch thick chilled it, then They breaded the fillets, And then they were had a golden appearance. [MUSIC PLAYING] Demand for meat during World was extremely high. Those on the front lines So things had to Restaurants started on certain days of the took to sharing including things over pancakes and Home chefs, for their with new and interesting ways Or they just outright For example, a staple of was meatloaf made and various ingredients But during World War II, cooks to make an economical meal. Rather than ground beef, this a cup of mashed potatoes, and It wasn't quite the but it was an efficient way leftovers. [MUSIC PLAYING] A big part of rationing to make food last So a lot of meals were from odds and ends. Bubble and squeak, for example, of recipe, although there mashed potatoes. During rationing, potatoes because they were easy to grow. Best of all, from a they took on whatever flavors When used in bubble and turned every dinner into usually filled with whatever [MUSIC PLAYING] Baking without flour may But when this staple living in occupied Poland In many cases, this meant Of course beans don't have as flour, but when they become malleable and into a cake. Beans also don't taste rather they have But the creative Polish Namely, they added six to the recipe, so it was [MUSIC PLAYING] Vegetables were plentiful in mainly because they couldn't Fresh fruit and veggies were without spoiling, so Americans Eventually, the to urge citizens to plant their reasoning that if the and can their own more factory space for Onions are a prime example of a and extremely hearty. And in the 1940s, cooks with various ingredients. Grape-nuts, everybody's favorite which for the record contains and is actually made was an American Even though most people still it still has its For one, it gave a stuffed similar to an onion With the right amount might even make a [MUSIC PLAYING] Coffee is a must But during World War II, in America was shipped coffee one of the And what will sound like the era where at least one Americans were limited to going every five to six weeks. That meant they were drinking The horror. Americans who absolutely started making was named for Franklin was president at the time. Roosevelt coffee was made with reused grounds. It was typically pretty a mediocre substitute but people got creative with it. Sometimes, ingredients were mixed with the coffee. The chicory added while postum, as a made of wheat bran, wheat, [MUSIC PLAYING] A cow's tongue is huge, Not exactly a thing a sits down to enjoy, if they But during World War were only able to buy meat and feet, which made on classic dishes. Beef tongue, for example, as a big tongue on a plate. Instead it was closer to a casserole. Braised beef tongue will one modern recipe calls for and tomato sauce, To get the tongue into it had to be boiled baked for another two in by vegetables. [MUSIC PLAYING] Spit soup probably doesn't in the history of but the dish itself The soup was created as a way to make use Poles no longer had access made the cuisine so rich. Proteins like oysters and as were items as So to survive poles made a soup out of But why did they give the Well it came about because they had to spit out the husks. [MUSIC PLAYING] Chopped liver is a that uses schmaltz and and cracklings to fortify the most of the dish. During World War were advised to stretch out might mean using breadcrumbs or making a vegetarian version. This vegetarian was made using fresh and whatever else may have been Home chefs often swapped out onions, crackers, if eggs happened [MUSIC PLAYING] You're probably thinking is the name for But it's not, it's just You see people living in England didn't have the vast fields So they mixed what little which was sometimes tree flour. One German recipe called for half rye grain, parts sawdust, and one part Everything was mixed together It doesn't really but hey, in times of war, to survive. So what do you think? Which dish would Let us know in the comments check out some of these other