From thousands upon thousands of kilometers desert, to the tallest abandoned building city filled with hundreds of identical abandoned This is part three of our most useless megaprojects Number 3: California City places in the United States is California's Spanning as much as 500 square kilometers City is a failed attempt at creating America's likes of Los Angeles or New York. The city's history begins with a man named Mendelsohn was a Czech-born sociology professor of towns and villages. After the Second World War, California's With plenty of military bases and defense funding from the federal government. And so hundreds of thousands of people started Mendelsohn wanted to be part of this rapid of land in the middle of the Mojave Desert. His plan was to transform this barren wasteland rival neighboring Los Angeles just 150 kilometers But of all places, why did Mendelsohn want There were two reasons. First, desert land far away from city centers cheap. Second, Mendelsohn chose this precise plot learning about the existence of an underground This groundwater would have single-handedly in an area where water was pretty hard to Shortly after the purchase, the California with Mendelsohn taking on a leading position. The CCDC was tasked with overseeing and managing By 1961, the master plan for the city's To entice potential buyers to purchase land with an artificial lake that would serve as Plenty of other amenities were constructed and a four-story motel just beside the park. On top of all the infrastructure development, heavily advertised California City in the He called it an investment worth buying and venture" and the "largest community in Also part of Mendelsohn's campaign was marketing that would train and license individuals to But despite all of Mendelsohn's efforts grow to millions and millions of citizens, a total of just over 800 residents. Much of the city's land was left undeveloped Despite the cheap price tag, only a few gambled next biggest city. In 1969, Mendelsohn sold the majority of his dwindle down. He was starting to realize that his vision fading away. During this time, the Federal Trade Commission of fraud and corruption. By 1972, the FTC issued a cease and desist This was because the real estate school was City and not actually train people to be professional Additionally, the FTC deemed the property infrastructure such as roads were not completed. Today, after more than six decades of continuous a population of 15,000 people. A single McDonald's, a Starbucks, and a boulevard which sees minimal traffic all throughout A small airport and a regular bus service Meanwhile, a privately-owned prison in the city's main source of employment. Although California City may look like your above, remnants of the city's ambitious Much of the city's land to the east still Dirt roads form a useless expansive grid that envisioned metropolis. The plumbing infrastructure from the 60s also for the local government to maintain. Mendelsohn's vision may have not come to unique history is putting California City Online magazines, artists, and photographers and some even believe that "the city is crisis in the country". Only time will tell where this unfinished much of California City remains as a useless Number 2: The Tallest Abandoned Building in With a towering height of 600 meters, the the Guinness World Record for the world's A record that China frankly never wanted to But before it was eventually abandoned, the the world's sixth tallest skyscraper if Plans for the tower's construction were wherein many Chinese cities were all competing rapid infrastructure development. The man behind the project was billionaire company Goldin Financial Holdings. Goldin Finance 117 was to be the centerpiece luxury residential and business district located Along with the central skyscraper, multiple to be constructed in the area. The skyscraper itself would contain 128 floors a mixed use of housing and commercial space. The other 11 floors are dedicated for mechanical The plan for Goldin Finance 117 also included be three storeys high. This area would house the world's highest at a height of 580 meters above the ground. Construction on the tower began in 2008 with However in early 2010, just following the on the tower was suspended. With plenty of other assets and investments temporarily cut costs elsewhere and so the Eventually, when the market finally stabilized, was now scheduled to open in 2018. In September 2015, the building was finally structure. This would have been an occasion for celebration, company, things were just about to blow over. June 2015 saw the Chinese stock market crash much as 67%. Sutong himself, who had a massive stake in in the aftermath of this crisis. Just three months after the building was topped-out, the project indefinitely. Although it might look like Goldin Finance and financing issues, that alone is not the Ever since the construction began 14 years fail. Everything about the project from the high-end the tallest buildings in the world painted Something that was targeted towards the rich Even if the project would have been completed, for simply didn't exist in Tianjin. Nobody who lived near the project could actually And it is uncertain whether wealthy Chinese just to live in a super tall skyscraper. As it stands today, the building still remains The contractor for the project has completely workers and equipment with them. The Goldin Finance 117 now stands tall above that has never been occupied, and it's probably Number 1: Burj al Babas of Mudurnu in northwestern Turkey is a fascinating Hundreds upon hundreds of abandoned chateau-style a single soul in sight. Burj al Babas was supposed to be a luxury oil executives, but it never saw the light Construction on the residential complex began later. The plan was to create a total of 732 of these or sold to wealthy individuals. Each villa would have three storeys, its own it, traditional Turkish interiors, and homeowners the basement. Additionally, the project also included a restaurants, health and beauty centers, a On top of all that, the site for Burj al Babas' spring. And so a traditional Turkish bath was planned part of the many amenities the project offered Each villa was reportedly priced around the The idea being that the properties would be is the target market of the project. Initially, the project seemed to be going were already financed by investors. But by 2018, the entire project suddenly came 732 villas being erected. When the global oil market tanked in the same affected by the sudden falling of oil prices. To make matters worse, Turkey's economy an inflation rate of as much as 25%--the Most of Burj al Babas' buyers were quick construction industry saw a massive downturn With a project valued at $200 million USD, through, the company behind the Burj al Babas and in serious trouble. Around the same time, Turkish court ordered construction on the project given its situation. The developer tried to appeal this ruling crisis by saying that "We only need to sell I believe we can get over this crisis in four project in 2019". This of course never happened and up to this amidst the picturesque landscape of northwestern The project has been abandoned for three years to completion. It has been so long since the project was many houses are now crumbling and being destroyed Three years have now passed since construction has dared to continue the project. The future of this project over the next few for sure. For now, the site will remain empty with nothing What do you think about these megaprojects? Do you think they would ever be completed? Let us know in the comments down below. If you want to learn more about other failed part two of our useless megaprojects series. Thank you very much for watching, and see