Cranes are dangerous. Any time something Keep that in mind next time you climb a ladder. safely is pretty much a crane's only job. So through some of the biggest crane disasters in and this is Practical Engineering. In today's This video is sponsored by HelloFresh, Cranes are the backbone of just about every boiled down to material handling: taking delivery, parts of a project. Of course, you can do a lot are even tools to provide a mechanical advantage, working in the trades will tell you that there are equipment amplifies the amount of work that can be at most construction sites is not if a crane Because they are so pervasive and they do objects high into the air, occasionally cranes some of the reasons these failures occur, I've got some demos set up in my garage with Crane collapses lead to property damage, they're almost always preventable, so I'll do differently for the cases described. By the A future video will cover rigging and the things The first reason cranes fail is improper assembly are temporary. They're not staying when the job their own power (called mobile cranes), or they a process that can take days or weeks depending on vulnerable during assembly or disassembly since A recent collapse in Seattle happened when a team the pins holding sections of the tower together. However, when winds picked up that day, disconnected, being held together just by gravity It didn't take long for the crane to collapse, In most cases, these cranes are expertly the manufacturers are rarely the they provide detailed manuals for the crews those manuals aren't always followed to the modern history happened in 2008 in New York crane to a building when a major component of suddenly fell. As it fell, it crashed into the building and allowing the whole crane to overturn. assembling the crane didn't follow the manual. the crane according to the manufacturer's and attached to the building. Seven people died as in 2006 also happened because the operator was Instead of an eight-ton counterweight, they balance. Eventually, the bolts holding the slew killing the operator and another person who Once a crane is set up, the challenges Many crane failures happen during everyday is overloading. Every crane has limitations in how as something like a bridge that has a single wide variety of different configurations - like sizes - they also, by the very nature of their boom up or down, etc. And more importantly, Every crane has a tipping line - that's the line increase in weight outside the tipping line other side. The further away the load is from the on the crane. This is easy to demonstrate with the load required to tip the crane at different and force, we get roughly a straight line. That's As the distance from the crane goes up, the force Cranes have a few tools to keep the load in oppose the torque by balancing it on the opposite When there's enough room to use them, these arms load and thus reducing the length of the lever. the outriggers extended, but it can barely All those factors add up to a lot more than which is why cranes have load charts. as long as you're looking at the one that Look at the furthest radius your hook will be and you'll see the maximum allowable load the have sensors and electronics that can help an moment indicators tell the crane operator Many cranes will even lock out specific or sustaining damage from overloading. That In 2016 in Manhattan, a crawler crane fell over The boom and jib of this particular crane could But, even with nothing on the hook, the lowered below 75 degrees. Unfortunately, the and the crane fell, killing one Even if the crane can handle the load and do the base. It has to be transferred to the ground, The geotechnical engineers call this a vertical when it wasn't supposed to. And this can happen That's when soil particles compress together when but it can create issues at a construction one of two ways. Sometimes compacting the subgrade sure that it won't compress further over time. it's usually best to replace the top layer The other type of vertical deformation In this case, the soil particles actually These dowels represent soil particles, and you a vertical load. The particles below the base bulge up on the sides. Here's an example using a the crane can hold 150 grams without when set on top of loose sand, things aren't the two feet in compression. Instead, it In 2012, this crane fell over while lifting a the ground wasn't strong enough to withstand Geotechnical engineers can estimate the so there's no good reason this should what's required for the crane, the solution is This is often done using steel plates or Water also affects bearing capacity. The of friction between soil particles. If water it pushes them away from each other, reducing ever stepped in the mud, you have some intuition the construction on the Brazil World Cup Stadium The cause of the collapse was a bearing capacity by several days of heavy rainfall. So, keeping and again replacing crummy soil with a stable, The final cause of crane collapses that I want power of the wind to overload. In 2019, a severe in Dallas, killing one person and injuring several being litigated, but it brings up one thing many withstand very high winds, but only under certain disengage the clutch so the crane can freely point the boom is locked, it can end up broadside to the crane. In the video of the 2019 collapse, you can and only one of them failed. That suggests that crane properly or the crane malfunctioned In September 2017, three cranes at all collapsed on the same day due to winds the same make and model, and they were all no one was injured at any of the sites since during the storm were more than 125 miles per That's far more than the maximum design wind speed about 150 kilometers per hour. As the saying goes, Hurricane Irma just delivered winds that were are required to meet. However, since only this investigators recommended some changes to the Situations like what happened in Florida are the nearly every crane accident is easily preventable. collapsed during the construction of Miller Park The crane was lifting a 510-ton roof section but it wasn't the just weight of the Steel assemblies can appear pretty slender, but Watch what happens when I put my leaf blower on spring scale, but a little bit of wind goes a long 15% to the load on the hook. It's more than the capacity, and that doesn't even consider crane. These machines are rarely capable other than straight down, so their load charts On that fateful day in 1999, the crane operator wind loading when assessing the crane's capacity, happened to catch the entire collapse on killed during this incident, and a sculpture of As you may have noticed, there are but there are also underlying human factors as lift plan any time a crane is used. That involves air to consider all the aspects of the lift the center of gravity, and lifting points of the the capabilities of the crane, outside factors process. For complicated lifts, these plans engineering reviews to ensure that nothing It's time for everyone's favorite segment of me trying to cook while my wife Yeah just wad that up. Yeah that looks good." With a helper who (let's be honest) mention our currently broken microwave chaotic. That's why we're thankful for for converting cooking from a chore into "Easy there cowboy" We are indecisive eaters, meaning neither of us It's nice to have HelloFresh curating delicious "Do you want sound effect or no sound effect?" The pre-portioned ingredients mean and the packaging is mostly recyclable also helps us get dinner ready quickly prep, and shopping - not that we Go try it yourself at HelloFresh.com and use code PRACTICAL14 to get 14 free "You're practicing on yours first, right?" Supporting our sponsors helps support this PRACTICAL14. Thanks, HelloFresh, and thank