Lead is a handy metal. It's soft. It's dense. And it's great at resisting corrosion. But it's also incredibly toxic. Which is not so handy. And despite knowing that it's bad for us, humans have been using lead for thousands of years. By the 20th Century, you could find it in everything from paints, to pipes, to petrol. Which some of our audience calls gasoline. But things are different now. There are all kinds of laws that And we owe that improvement, at least in part, to a man who didn't set out wanting to ban lead for health reasons. He just wanted to know how old the Earth is. [intro jingle] Clair Patterson wasn't the first person to try and figure out our planet's age. Back in 1778, Georges Louis Leclerc got his estimate by measuring how long it took for iron balls to cool down after being taken out of a furnace. Extrapolating that to an Earth-sized ball of iron yielded an age around 75,000 years old, but he suspected the Earth was even older. Based on geological evidence, like the buildup of rock layers, he imagined an age somewhere Unfortunately, rock layers can't tell you much just by looking at them. It's not like they have the date stamped on them. And in fact, during the assumed a kind of 'steady state' Earth, which had always existed and would continue to exist as is for all eternity. But the British physicist William Thomson, who would later become Lord Kelvin, was outraged by this unscientific reasoning. So in 1860, he revisited slowly cooling ball of stuff. Thompson assumed that the and cooled from the outside in... like a turkey you just pulled out of the oven. And the yet-to-be-Lord's estimate was somewhere betweenur. But by assuming the Earth was he'd missed something important. The molten parts of the Earth don't transfer heat the same way that the solid bits do. In fact, they keep the planet hotter for longer. So one of Thompson's former assistants adjusted the math to account for this. And he calculated that if the crust were 50 kilometers thick, the Earth could be as much as Which finally gets us into the right order of magnitude. But in 1903, we also learned the Earth had an extra source of heat. It came courtesy of radioactive decay, which was this fancy physics phenomenon that had been discovered a few years earlier. And while it didn't adjust the Earth's age nearly as much as accounting radioactive decay would play a crucial role in pinning down the Earth's age. But instead of monitoring how much heat radioactive elements shed as they decay, scientists turned to a new One of the most famous kinds of radiometric dating relies on an unstable And eventually, every carbon-14 atom will turn into stable nitrogen-14. Scientists call the starting radioactive atom the parent isotope, and the thing it decays into the daughter isotope. And all radioactive decay happens on a predictable timescale, known as the half life. For carbon-14, it's around 5700 years. So while each individual atom decays at a random moment in time, we know that half of any lump of carbon-14 atoms will have decayed when it hits 5700 years old. Now, the most common form of radiometric dating involves measuring both the and the amount of parent isotope you've got in your sample. And then you compare those counts against how much of each you started with. It can be a little tricky to figure out those starting values, but ultimately, the more daughter isotope and the less parent isotope you've got, the older your sample is. Now, carbon-dating is great for archeology , but it's not so useful when But even if the Earth were as young as Leclerc's 75,000 year estimate, that would mean the amount of with was cut in half 13 times vover. Modern levels would be way too low to measure them accurately. So if the Earth really were billions of years old, scientists would need an isotope with a half life on the scale And that's where Clair Patterson comes in. Born in 1922, Patterson's early passion for the natural world led to an innate scientific curiosity and a knack for chemistry. And right out of college, he was recruited to join the Manhattan Project. His job was to use mass spectrometry... basically a giant magnetic to separate rare Uranium-235 isotopes from their much more common, and just a bit more heavy The Uranium-235 that Patterson isolated would eventually make its and we all know how that story ended. So like any sensible person, Patterson was horrified by the devastation his work had caused. After the war, he returned to academic life And when he arrived, his advisor challenged him to use radiometric dating of uranium to find the age of the Earth. Because unlike carbon-14, both uranium-238 and 235 to have plenty left over billions of years later. Uranium-238 decays with a half life of roughly 4.5 billion years and, after a series of steps, ends up as Lead-206. Uranium-235, meanwhile, has a much shorter but still decent half life of 703 million years. And it winds up becoming Lead-207. So as the Earth ages, it will end To date the planet, you just need to find a and measure the proportions of each. And that's where this uranium-lead dating is easier said than done. Because almost every bit of the Earth's crust has been recycled over its long history. It's almost impossible to find pieces that are still hanging around from day one. But there is one very solid option. They're hardy little crystals called zircons. Zircons form inside igneous or metamorphic rocks, but they aren't easily even when the rocks that contained them are reduced to sand. But they're not just a good target because they can watch the They're also great for uranium-lead dating because they tend to form with but hardly any lead. That means all of the lead you find inside them should come from radioactive decay. It makes the math pretty straightforward. So the first step in Clair was to study some zircons. Along with his lab partner, they needed to refine the so it would actually produce legitimate ages. But you can't refine a technique on something you don't actually know the age of, so they tested some zircon crystals from a rock they knew was But despite Patterson's skill and expertise, the numbers kept coming out weird. They knew how much lead there but the amounts they were measuring were much, much higher. So Patterson suspected something was contaminating the samples. After a bunch of tests, he found that his lab was full of unwanted lead. In fact, it seemed to be coming the glassware, the tap water, the paint on the walls, dust...even his own body. Because remember, people have been putting And in Patterson's mid 20th century lab, it came in toughened glass, and most recently outside in the streets, in leaded fuel. So the solution was obvious, right? Create an environment where the only lead is the stuff in the rock you're trying to date. And Patterson went to great He mopped, vacuumed, installed extra fans. He even dunked his glassware It took him five years to perfect his cleaning techniques, and finally: Success. He'd managed to get the right age for his billion-year old zircon, earning him his PhD. And that meant Patterson could finally move on to But he'd have to switch both target and technique. Because as hardy as zircons are, it's hard to be sure where one formed relative to the whole planet. You might find one that's super old, but that doesn't mean it formed inside one of the very first rocks. So scientists have another, more reliable source that falls from outer space. Meteorites are effectively that were created and sealed back when the Earth and all the other planets were forming. In other words, the age of a meteorite is But there's one important downside. Unlike zircons, meteorites start off with lead inside them. That means you need a slightly more One that can distinguish the lead that formed as a result of radioactive decay, from the lead that's been This technique is called lead-lead dating, and it relies on precise the lead-206 and lead-207 and a slightly lighter version of lead that uranium will never decay into: Lead-204. If any of the lead in your space rock is lead-204, you know you can ignore it how much radioactive decay has been going on. But to figure that out, to distinguish you need a mass spectroscope. And lucky for Clair Patterson, a mass spectroscope was something he had gotten very good at using. So he left the Windy City for starting his postdoctoral work at Caltech. And it was there that he planned to figure out how old the Earth is, by lead-lead dating a meteorite. But to accomplish that he knew he'd have to build the cleanest lead-free lab in the world. He tore out all the lead pipes, and replaced all the electrical He had a special pressurized air system installed, and separate rooms for each step The refit was so extensive, that the geology department had to sell their fossil collection to fund it! But Patterson got his lab. And styling himself as the 'Kingpin of clean', he cleaned his meteorite sample... ...used his state of the art mass spectroscope to count how much of each type of lead there was ...and plugged those numbers into the equations that would tell him the age of the Earth. It was 4.5 billion years old. If that sounds familiar, it's because it's basically It was one of the greatest of the 20th Century. But Clair Patterson wasn't happy. It was now the 1960s. And in his decades-long quest to get the purest, most uncontaminated samples for his research, Patterson had realized just how much lead there was out there. And that's bad news because lead is super toxic. It causes hallucinations, compulsions, coma, and eventually death, among other wonderful outcomes People knew this to some extent as far back as Roman times, more than 2000 years ago, but we kept using it anyway. So in the 1960s, Clair Patterson became an anti-lead activist. He railed against the gasoline which had started putting lead into fuel back in the 1930s to help car engines run more smoothly. And according to the Kingpin of Clean, that lead was coming out in the exhaust fumes and poisoning everyone. Of course, the powerful and lucrative gasoline industry didn't want to hear these accusations, so they actively denied his claims. And unfortunately, other scientists didn't have in their labs, so they weren't able to replicate his results. But Patterson was undeterred, and he went to the ends of the Earth to prove his point. He traveled to both the Arctic and Antarctic to sample snow and ice cores, and revealed that modern lead levels in these extremely remote regions were 300 times higher than they were in the 1700s. Patterson also braved seasickness to chart the oceans and fish for tuna, so that he could compare their lead levels against the tinned tuna on grocery shelves. Those tins were sealed with lead solder, which could contaminate the fish. And he found that there was as much as 10,000 times more lead in the tinned tuna than the wild tuna. Patterson also studied Egyptian mummy bones, and found they had roughly than the bones of a modern American. Ultimately, he showed beyond all reasonable since the rise of cars and the introduction of leaded gasoline. But Patterson was not alone in this quest. They may not have traveled to Antarctica with him, but medical doctors were learning more and more about the biological For example, high lead levels were linked to children having lower IQ scores. And eventually, other scientists began to cite Patterson's work and implement his lab practices. With all that science on their side, they forced governments In 1990, the United States' Environmental Protection Agency amended the Clean Air Act. Leaded gasoline would be completely banned after a five year grace period. But unfortunately, Patterson died just three weeks before that ban took full effect. He lived his entire life in and spent much of his adult life working to eliminate it from his lab, But that work saved an untold number of lives. In the 4.5 billion year history of Earth, it might be the best use of lead ever. Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow. And if you're one of the 3,751 subscribers to SciShow's Patreon, you get more than our thanks. You get my undying adoration. Because I would not be here without your support. And we would not be here without your support. You may not be like Clair Patterson, spending decades of your life fighting to stop us all from inhaling lead day in and day out. But you're just as important to me. You, Are. Awesome. [ OUTRO ]