[upbeat music] [drive buzzes] [&quot;TADA&quot; startup sound plays] - Greetings, and welcome to And yeah, I've got It has served me well for a few years now, but it's time for the upgrade or perhaps not, but... I don't know, I've been It's always been my goal to at least for a bit. You know, I've got different installations set up on different CompactFlash so I'm not gonna be sticking But for this video, okay? We've got Windows 95. Complete in the box, still sealed. This'll be quite an experience. I've never actually unboxed I've only ever had CD-ROMs and floppy disks just on their own. But this right here, oh, this was such an exciting Holy nuts! The impact that this had just generally everything, We'll get into some of that. But yeah, I want to test everything out on a 486. Which that alone's gonna be interesting. I've very rarely run 95 on it does only need a 386DX with 4 megabytes of RAM, and VGA or higher. And this right here is a It's been upgraded many This is the LGR Woodgrain In fact, it most recently All fresh, new woodgrain. Yeah, you can see that The old woodgrain was and needed some updating. But yeah, it's all and the whole bunch of so I think it is very much ready for the most exciting While I do have this lovely which we are going to open, this is the CD-ROM version of it. And, well, it was also 3.5-inch floppies. So you had the upgrade version of it available on floppy and CD, but if you were to get the version of this that was for new PCs without Windows, you could only get this at least at first, here Of course, there were full CD distributed later as OEM releases and some other things in As well as plenty of upgraded versions, OSR 1, 2, 2.1, 2.5, and such. But yeah, I have not installed Windows 95 from floppies since high school, so I think it's been long and want to experience it So long, Windows 3.1, for now. [shutdown chimes ring] And it's on to 1995 with Windows 95. Let's get this sucker unsealed Mm, yes. It is August 24th, 1995, a Thursday, and this has just launched, hitting retail at $209.95 for the full version of it. Or this one, being the was $109.95 being the for this in the box. &quot;To get the computer you've That Start menu, the Start button, it was more or less the and my goodness, was it exciting. Really, the whole Start menu itself, it deconstructed how I knew to use a PC. I'd really only used Windows 3.1 in terms of GUIs at the time. And then to have this Start menu just rethink the whole thing, tear it all down, build it that was pretty darned This was also the first so that itself was pretty awesome. CD-ROM drives were becoming but pretty darned expected in a new PC. I didn't have a CD-ROM until Anyway, this came on the floppy version was And as mentioned earlier, if you wanted the full not just the upgrade one, you And finding that one nowadays is expensive and pretty hard to come by. But these right here, and at least at the time of making this video. Also worth noting that this one comes with the Internet So that actually adds, It did not originally come with the very first release of Windows 95, but it's inside here on the CD, I presume. Or, if you had the floppy one, it had an additional with Internet Explorer In addition to the 13 for which we're gonna try to But yeah, for now, let's just [smooth jazz music] Mmm, how I dreamed of this Oh, I wanted Windows 95 so bad, But here we go, 27 years later. Ooh, and there we go. Oh, we got the... Okay, so it is a separate disc. So there is the Internet And here is Windows 95, in a With a CD key on the back. &quot;Don't lose this number.&quot; I won't! Let's get this thing open. Oh, yeah! Look at that! Well, isn't that a pleasant-looking disc? So yeah, this is just the upgrade, so this relies on you having a previous Windows Which we do, Windows 3.1. And then, you know, there were plenty of Windows 95 full but those were the OEM ones or OSR versions, which And those were either packed in with computers that you'd buy new, or you would get them as like a system builder license, at least on the initial launch. Internet Explorer Startup Kit. &quot;Easy way to get on Don't know if we'll be using this. I don't really have any Oh yeah, their old slogan. &quot;Where do you want to go today?&quot; I wanna go to Windows 95 Land. Yeah, just registration here. &quot;Win a free trip to Hawaii or Florida.&quot; Wonder who won that. And this colorful sheet. Oh man, AOL. 50 whole hours free. Oh my goodness. AOL for Windows 95. Featuring Internet Explorer. All right. I always just miss that This is AOL 3 here, maybe? Looks like 3. And the Internet Explorer Starter Kit. I believe this was also &quot;Why explore the internet?&quot; Well, &quot;most people come to the internet out of sheer curiosity. Maybe you've heard the hype, or heard about it from Communications, publications, entertainment, education, shopping, software, employment, porn. I don't know if it'll ever catch on, but it sure does seem like And finally, we've got a lovely [laughs numerically] With 95 pages? Really? So what is new in Windows 95? Well, a new and improved interface. The Start button and taskbar! Incredible. Windows Explorer. Hmm, no more File Manager? Long filenames. Up to 255 Not just the 8.3 anymore. Improved game and multimedia I was so excited for like, It got even better when they But yeah, you had OpenGL [incoherent geekout] It was so cool! Plug and Play hardware compatibility. Or &quot;plug and pray.&quot; Sometimes it works. We'll see if it does on our 486! 32-bit preemptive Microsoft Exchange and Microsoft Network. Yeah, their own online and Email, faxes, MSN being their ISP. But yeah, there was just an So much of it that continues to this day in some form or another. This established so much But yeah, it's kind of interesting to think about how Especially without this right here. Like, no Internet Explorer. [laughs] No DirectX or Direct3D until June of 1996. No USB either. That was The install CDs weren't even bootable, still requiring a boot floppy Yet at the same time, Windows 95 was such a wildly improved and the hype was out of control. The marketing alone, man. If you were around then and glanced at a TV, chances are you high you saw a hundred different Windows 95 ads. And it's no surprise. Microsoft spent between on the ad campaign. Yeah, massive summer blockbuster ad money spent on operating system launch. Just nuts! And the bulk of it was with the iconic Rolling Stones &quot;Start Me Up&quot; song playing throughout, because &quot;Start Menu, lulz.&quot; Yeah, that one song alone was but it turns out that was just a rumor. The real price was more like 3 million, but either way, it wasn't chump change. With the story being that Bill Gates personally asked Mick Jagger how much it'd cost to license the track, and Jagger threw out thinking it was absurd and Microsoft rolled the and used the crap outta that including that huge launch with 5,000 guests and hosted by Jay Leno and to launch events at retailers everywhere. And then there was this released on VHS. A 60-minute Windows 95 video guide produced by Microsoft and GT Interactive, featuring &quot;Friends&quot; stars Jennifer Aniston and Matthew Perry, which were unbelievably huge at the time. Yes, this is somehow real, and yes, it is painful to It's great! - [Boris] We'll copy onto the hard disk! - [Aniston] So you mean every printer in the world? - [Boris] Ah no, for older hardware, legacy hardware we call it, - Oh, so that means we have Control Panel icon, like on old Windows? - No, now we have Printer - [Perry] Well, that's more inspiring than Printer Installation Ogre. - [Clint] Apparently there was even an interactive CD-ROM version, which, yeah, I don't have So anyway, yeah, advertising perhaps even off-putting, but the results spoke for themselves. And take, for example, that in 1995, around 60 million personal computers had been sold worldwide, yet Microsoft sold 40 in its first year on the Utterly ridiculous. So with all that out of the way, I think it's high time we see and install it from 3.5-inch disks. Place your bets now on whether or not we complete a full installation So, first step here is to run the Setup program off of Disk 1, which kicks off ScanDisk to ensure the hard drives are ready to go. Which they are, but after that is a message I wasn't expecting, recommending we quit installing from DOS and load up Windows to install Windows. I mean, sure. If it's So it's back into 3.1 one last time and initiating the setup process that way, which promptly asks for And after choosing a drive and directory, we're giving the option to save our existing which creates a couple of little files that should allow us should we decide to go back, something I don't believe I've ever tried. After that, we're provided Portable, Compact, and Custom And it's gotta be Custom. I want every last bite of Although it is not absolutely since this floppy version like 3D screensavers, sound not to mention the FUNSTUFF We'll have to grab all Another floppy thing of note popping up if your particular disks have already been used to It still lets you install the OS, but it just fills in the name, used during whoever with no option to change it. Awkward. And finally, it asks about Note that it does not include That's something you have An amusing marker of just how fresh the internet and its protocols And with all that, so begins Now, on-screen notes from Microsoft state it'll likely take anywhere from 30 to 60 minutes to complete, and well, we're off to a great start! [error sound looping rapidly] Oh, no! [laughs] What the heck? [error sound still going haywire] Really? So that's fun. The whole setup process on loop the entire time! Initially annoying, sure, [error loop flowing into dance beat] Okay, enough distractions. Gotta continue the installation. There are still nine more at least on this one. Some of the later releases But anyway, with every I grew increasingly paranoid that something was gonna go wrong. I mean, how often do you installing a single old But I was worrying for nothing. It went off without a hitch. With lucky number 13 finishing up, I breathed an audible sigh of relief. And this part of the process took roughly 35 minutes to complete too, so right in the range predicted, although overall with the initial setup and post-install the total time came to just Not including diversions for And as a reward, mm, we're original Windows 95 startup splash screen. I always got so excited Ah, bring on that Microsoft sound. [Windows 3.1 &quot;TADA&quot; plays] Oh. Well, that's disappointing. It turns out that instead of the fantastic Brian it plays the Windows 3.1 &quot;TADA&quot; WAV since it's kept our old settings intact. Gotta fix that crap straight away. [dreamy Windows 95 startup theme plays] Ah, there we go. All is right with the world. Fun fact, that Brian was actually composed on a Mac. According to him, he has and he just doesn't like them. Fantastic. And yeah, here is the as it was in 1995. &quot;Welcome to Windows 95.&quot; &quot;Did you know you can use your right mouse button to drag files?&quot; So yeah, this is a nice little thing here to introduce you not only to but just generally learn Windows 95. &quot;What happened to my program groups?&quot; &quot;What happened to File Manager?&quot; It's actually still there, it's just sorta been replaced as well. Yeah, all of these new or new ways to do old things. We do have some things but for the most part it does We do have a holdover from Windows 3.0. Reversi is still here from when we had that installation going. But yeah, Windows Explorer It is doing that thing it does where it gets rid of the extensions. So I always uncheck that hide extensions, 'cause I like to have them on there. But anyway, all kinds of new stuff to do in Windows Explorer. This was such a massive which, uh, it's still in here somewhere. Yeah, in fact, we can Because again, doing the upgrade, it doesn't actually fully so you have this really messed-up version of Windows 3.1's Program Manager in here. I remember first discovering again in high school, when or tasked with installing 95 and upgrading them from 3.1. But yeah, at least we do still Or at least we would if the Ah, okay, so that's one thing Just go into My Computer Anyway, yeah, the sound card I It uses this Crystal Plug and Play codec. MIDI totally works in DOS games, but I haven't been able to These are some drivers that... It found some Plug and Play drivers. Actually, sound was working so hey, Plug and Play But only partially, I had and even now it's still not 100%. But yeah, with something like &quot;Doom&quot; here, it's gonna work just fine, at least with the Wavetable [ominous menu music] [gunshot sounds] [E1M1 music chugging badly] Eh, bit of a slow start. Come on, computer! [music speeds up to normal] There we go. [music chugging sporadically] [zombie soldiers roaring] But yeah, MIDI's working here. [pistol poppin' off] [Imp croaks] Weird bits of lag, for sure. But, you know, that's a Wavetable. Maybe there's just some weirdness with this particular Now it said AdLib isn't responding. Interesting. That could just be a the drivers I'm using. Mm in fact, yeah, looking it up on the website for the Orpheus, it does mention that there might be some weirdness in 95, hmm. That is just this particular card and software configuration. Your regular old Sound Blasters and whatever else works great in 95. And has a lot of those like it'll just detect most of the time, as long And yeah, being able to from within Windows, not having to reboot into DOS mode or anything Let's die. [beeper chirps] Yeah, when configured correctly, DOS under Windows 95 works very well. In fact, it's often my preferred At least later '90s things. You know, if just want you have that right here. You can go full-screen and get a more traditional You have DOS 7. Well, that says Windows 95, but DOS 7. And yeah, if you want to This doesn't have any So yeah, the nice mixture of That being said, it's not like Windows 95 is just sort of an application I don't know all the specifics there, but I do know it's not that simple. There is more going on. Unfortunately though, because we installed it from floppy disk, we don't have absolutely everything. This is all we get in the Media folder, just The Microsoft Sound, and that's all. And most unfortunately, Aw, dang it, man! Like, those are pretty part That's just, you know. You gotta have those! But you can change the appearance. Make things ridiculous. Nope, that's hideous. We still have easy access and compatibility with Windows 3.1. You know, 16-bit programs, and Maxis games, in my case in particular. I was always, oh, so hopeful that my old Maxis games would Yeah, dude. Being able to still have [bulldozing sound effects] Quite nice. Oh, we got WordPad instead of Write. A relatively capable word processor, considering what we're And then, of course, Paint Very similar functionality, but with expanded and just messed up my You can just whatever and, oh, man. It's really annoying me that I don't have my favorite screensavers and sound effects and MIDI files and things like that. So I'm curious if I can just install them directly from the CD version, or what? Because I know that you can go into this Add/Remove Programs here and then add things to the Windows setup. The thing is, I've that was available in so there's no option. Even when I select the Windows files that I have on the hard disk, the only thing it comes up with is this Document Templates thing. So let's just see what happens when we get the CD-ROM going here. It did not autoplay. That was a new feature of 95 as well, but we can just force that. Yeah! Go the tour. Microsoft Exposition? I don't even remember what that is. Oh, okay. Multimedia catalog of crap. Good ol' &quot;Hover!&quot; Cool video clips! [chuckles] Let's see if we can do this, though. Add/Remove. This is what I'm Don't think it's gonna let me. [sighs] That sucks. I mean, I can just copy but yeah, I was hoping just install the extra things. That being said, let's just [chuckles] The FUNSTUFF folder. So we have the game &quot;Hover!&quot; here. We have some sample pictures, like this lovely Windows Heck yeah. And, let's see. Videos, yes. Here we go. So we have these, I and also those high-performance versions. So you have &quot;Good Times, Music video here. Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh Yeah! We have a trailer for &quot;Rob Roy.&quot; Weirdly. This always confused me - How fine you are to me. And we got Weezer's [upbeat rock and roll] - [Announcer] &quot;Happy Days&quot; is... [upbeat pop rock] - [Clint] We've got by Bill Plympton. Yeah, man. Good stuff. Such memories. [chuckles] Ah, it was just amazing being able to see this kind of multimedia, full-motion video and Holy crap. Weezer was always my Don't care about that Yeah, I had no idea how in getting themselves into I don't care about that I've seem some making-of, like behind-the-scenes It's a fascinating process, but yeah. What awesome stuff. And, of course, &quot;Hover.&quot; Ooh, dear. Well. [chuckles] It's playable. Of course, no music here and that's not working in See if we can go full-screen. Okay. Well, yeah. That's actually... Well, a little bit worse. But hey, whatever. I would've been happy and I was, daggone it! Yeah! And I got stuck. Yeah, the entire point of this the game-making graphical and all that kinda stuff under Windows. You know, not having to go into DOS to do something like this. Seeing this kinda thing run was honestly pretty darned impressive. This is before DirectX, Direct3D, DirectSound, any of that stuff. That wasn't until after There it is. [chuckles] Oh, good ol' &quot;Hover!&quot; All right, so I really wanted to get those stupid 3D screensavers going, and I thought, okay, I could and it would work, right? Well, turns out not exactly. Copying them over from just led to them not working at all. So that got me wondering, okay, was it really that the floppy disk version didn't include the screensavers, or is the hardware here and it knows that and So I went back to the CD-ROM upgrade disc that we unboxed earlier and started that installation and it didn't show up there either. screensavers are just not part of And are included on OSR 2 or higher. Whatever though, I went the Windows 95 installation there and installed the rest of Now we have the proper instead of whoever owned Not only that, but installed that I was kinda hoping [jungle critters chittering] Yeah, you got your [steely tune chimes] The Musica scheme. Robotz, I always remember liking this one. [electronic chords hum] And Utopia. [airy tune echoes] Yeah, I remember using that one a lot too. Well anyway, it turns to get the screensavers working was actually copy over some OpenGL files that neither the floppy version 'cause again, those are only They show up in that installer just It totally works now. So video hardware, processor, hard drive, y'know, whatever. It's not optimized for OpenGL screensavers. I don't care, it's all dithered and slow, but I like it regardless. Heck yeah, Flying Windows logo. I always liked that one. Of course, Pipes. Which I believe this was of Windows NT as well. Obviously 3D Text. A staple of doctors' and for like a decade and half. And my favorite, 3D Maze. Sure, it runs slow, and, uh... [chuckles] Well, I don't really care. This screensaver was to watch as a kid. I always wished I could control it. I've seen some homebrew versions that people have kinda hacked together where you can control it. But, ya know, it's just a maze, and you watch it complete itself. With the little rat running and you occasionally get it flipping over, like that right there. [upside down chuckling] Oh, it's great. It's great! OpenGL doing its thing, even in software rendering, is fantastic. Anyway, that's a whole lot that we've experienced. Other than, you know, networking, the email, faxes, going online. I mean, I just don't in this machine right now. And Briefcase, that's just between like a desktop and Whatever. One of the other things, though, that I have to go into here is the Microsoft Plus! It really feels incomplete without it. This right here is kind of It just... I mean, you gotta put it on there. You get things like &quot;the But also 11 classic audiovisual themes, programs like System Agent and DriveSpace, and the legend, &quot;3D Pinball Space Cadet.&quot; It's a shame they didn't put a screenshot of that on the back. It's a real selling point. I'll never know why they didn't put that. It's just a little text blurb. Anyway, let's unbox this Yeah, also sealed. Never actually opened one of these. To be honest, only ever had copies of a copy of a copy Or it would come preinstalled. All right, some familiar-looking stuff. Yeah, this was released for $50 shortly after Windows 95 itself, and acted as sort of an Honestly, it feels like maybe this stuff could've been included How pleasant of an orange. There was also a Plus! pack for kids. I might have a copy of But yeah, this is the main one. Desktop themes, visual enhancements. System Agent, enhancements Internet Explorer. So yeah, if you didn't have that Internet Explorer whatever kit in your version of Windows 95, Dial-Up Networking Server, ooh. And, of course, &quot;3D Pinball.&quot; The demo version of &quot;Full But yeah, let's just go ahead &quot;Welcome to the internet setup.&quot; &quot;You'll need a modem.&quot; I don't have one. So ah, cool. We now have the rest of So, it begins with the desktop themes. My goodness, these bring back memories. Like good ol' Dangerous Creatures here. Inside your Computer, Leonardo da Vinci, More Windows, Mystery, '60s USA, Golden Era, Travel, Windows 95. And every single time it has to import... I guess just the background? I don't know. It's taking a little bit of time for every single one of these on this 486. So, uh... [laughs] Eh, it's trying, you know. Wow, kinda puts a damper on just randomly going Yeah, I think we gotta go Always like everything about this one. And we'll need to restart the machine to use the other things. But I'm gonna take that [power hums down] [chuckles] Oh, I forgot Anyway, yeah, just to because it is an AT hard on/off so you get this &quot;now safe to and you have to physically turn it off. 'Cause yeah, it can't just switch off the computer on its own. There's no soft power switch By the time we got a 95 machine in 1997, it had soft power on/off, and I was like, &quot;Dang it! Where's that And yeah, it does add this Microsoft Plus! splash right there. And you get different depending on what you install. You can an Internet Explorer Different OEM versions But I never really liked this one. I just like the original, so [electronic tune warbles] All right, so it has installed Which, yeah, same thing we saw earlier that we can't do anything about. We don't have a modem. The System Agent, or what is that? The Scheduler? I never liked this either. I mean, there were useful things. You could have it automatically ScanDisk, disk defrag, whatever. But, I mean... I can't wait! Gotta go to &quot;Space Cadet.&quot; &quot;3D Pinball.&quot; [table powers up] Again, not gonna get any music because of the dang MIDI [table thumping and zapping] Like, we should at least for FM Synthesis, but MPU-401? I thought that was just for the GamePort. But I got these other We can at least try... Yeah, Passport. This came with 95. [funky music] Hey! All right. [funky music] Well, awesome. Definitely should've activated Okay, let's go back to &quot;Space Cadet&quot; now that we got some dadgum music. [table powers up] [upbeat synth music] Ah! [table thumping and zapping] So much better. Full tilt! That's proper. Man, still Well, at this point, now that everything's working quite well, I'm just going through a bunch of Windows 95-related memories I have. Anybody remember the Duke Nukem themes that came with &quot;Atomic Edition&quot;? Yeah, you got different backgrounds and sound effects and screensavers and all kinds of good Got the little stripper animation. Little eyeball cursor. - [Duke] Mmm! - [Clint] Mmm! - [Duke] Mmm! - [Duke] Aha! - [Clint] Aha! [laughs] That's supremely stupid. - [Duke] Hello! [sighs wistfully] - [Clint] All these screensavers. The Body Parts one, where- - [Duke] Hello! - [Clint] Yeah, random just start falling down. [gibs splatting] Ah, memories. Well, let's keep the memories going with some games and whatnot. And yeah, I've got five, actually, going in the multi-CD-ROM changer we have. As a reminder, these are the specs of the LGR Woodgrain 486 as it is now. And sure, I run &quot;Duke 3D&quot; and &quot;Doom&quot; and &quot;Commander Keen&quot; and &quot;Jazz Jackrabbit&quot; and stuff all day long on this machine. It's well-equipped for that kinda thing. However, when we start that opens up a whole So, let's begin with one of my favorites. One of my key early Windows 95 memories, &quot;Lode Runner Online: Mad Monk's Revenge.&quot; My uncle Mark had this on Really, possibly the I spent a whole big chunk of time on. - Phew! Sierra! - [Clint] Always loved that little guy. [adventurous music] Yes! Music is always highly [suspenseful music] Well, so far, so good. It's running perfectly fine. Which I expected. I could actually run this Or at least you could, &quot;Lode Runner&quot;... The one before this, &quot;The Legend Returns.&quot; Aw, crap. [laughs] Well. Anyway. [Jake screams] Next CD you have in Now, I know for sure that I have never tried This is from 1997, so very much meant for [wondrous orchestral music] Well. [laughs] It's trying. It at least [unit chatting obediently] Well... It's not actually as bad but, uh, it's not ideal either, of course. Totally would've played this I had to play this on, 'cause But yeah, you can see it's pretty laggy. And of course, I am just No point in increasing on this machine. But yeah. I'm gonna say this is playable, Obviously it would get a whole lot worse once you get a whole which is gonna be a good Dude, &quot;Age of Empires&quot; on a 486. [cackles] That's a first for me. So I was gonna run the &quot;Need but I know that can go on Yeah, I've already experienced that. However, &quot;Need for Speed II,&quot; that's a bit more of a tall ask. This one actually put up a saying, &quot;Hey, your But you can install it So I said, &quot;Sure.&quot; [cars zooming past] I mean, hey, FMV working. [suspenseful techno music] Oh. [laughing] Oh, no! Well. Oh, those menus. Ooh, it's trying so hard! Okay. Okay, yeah. Wow. Oh, that's... That's a bit of a thing, huh? Oh! Well. All right, so I've put all of the settings as low as they will go. [energetic techno music] I mean, hey. We're on a 486, a VLB 486. - [Announcer] Three! Two! One! Go! [tires screech] Hmm, you know, I'm just [tires still screeching] Wow. Input lag is absurd, but of course, so is everything here. Can I crash this guy? Yeah! Still got it. Okay, let's see what happens if we put this sucker in full-screen. Ooh. Honestly, it's not much worse. [laughs] Again, just impressed I mean, this is &quot;Need for You don't do this. Oh, boy. That's the power It lets you try. That's the fun part. Wow. Yeah! Coolest 486 slideshow ever. All righty, well, I suppose I'm going to even though I could very just going back and revisiting Stuff that's just intrinsically linked to this OS and that era, especially with educational Your encyclopedias like Encarta Tons of kids' games, like and &quot;Buzzy Explores the Airport&quot; and &quot;Widget Workshop&quot; and &quot;SimTown.&quot; And all kids of other things for me that come to mind with Windows 95, like &quot;POD,&quot; &quot;Hellbender,&quot; &quot;Deadly Tide,&quot; the &quot;Microsoft Arcade&quot; and Not to mention just even Microsoft Office, and early internet browsing in and creating webpages and just so many memories. I mean, this barely even This was really a golden time, in my own experience, you And revisiting Windows 95 at all, especially in its original form like this, even though you can never really go back. I mean, it's just not the same, but it's a fun little visit nonetheless and I hope that you enjoyed watching. Do definitely put some of Please, I love reading those stories about how you first what kinda computer it was on. You know, was it at Was it your own computer, was it a friend's, a Any of those little details all add up into something that becomes and often for me, that does rely on the I don't know, it's just it in a very GUI-focused And if you did enjoy this some of my others on Windows 95 builds, and computers and software and It's something I love covering here on LGR in the future. And as always, thanks for watching!