- Hey, guys. Alex here Today, I'm going to show using SketchUp Free in 10 easy steps. We'll build this model And when we're done, you'll have learned the essential to build any project you have Plus, I'll share with you some to help you avoid the biggest, that often trip people up as they set off to model their own projects. Just know that this video who've never used SketchUp Free before. You'll want to at least be drawing tools and and be sure that you've practiced using those tools the correct way. So if you haven't already, I recommend you watch our &quot;Getting Started with to make sure you're comfortable with all the concepts we cover there. Oh, and I almost forgot. This is going to be like where if we've already or there's a part of a step that may take us a while to complete, we may cut ahead to the end result or show you the process in fast forward. But I'll be sure to let you so it doesn't just seem like stuff is magically happening in SketchUp. (electronic chiming) All right, let's bring and jump right in with number To begin, we'll go to app.sketchup.com to launch SketchUp Free I'll pick the &quot;feet and inches&quot; template. Next, we can delete the scale from our &quot;Getting Started I always recommend starting from a &quot;top-down&quot; view from the Now we've got a blank canvas, and we're ready to model our house. Our first step will be Now, SketchUp is designed allowing you to draw geometry in any shape and size with ease, but it can also be dead That's because whenever you draw or edit, you can always specify exact measurements. Remember, when we created our new file, we selected &quot;feet and inches.&quot; If you need to check or adjust you're using in your file, just open the &quot;model info&quot; you'll see the unit of Here, we've got fractional inches with a precision of but you're welcome to use Okay, I know we're going through some of these items pretty I've gone ahead and created a set of notes that will make it easy for you to review everything we're covering in this video, and to follow along with when you work on your own projects later. You'll find a link to Now, let's create a shape that will serve as the basis for our walls. We'll start by selecting the &quot;line&quot; tool. Then, let's click and let and move the cursor to You'll see SketchUp automatically this line along the same Now, over on our keyboard, &quot;20 feet,&quot; and hit &quot;enter&quot; or &quot;return.&quot; When you do that, SketchUp creates a line Next, let's start another line You'll see SketchUp the direction we're drawing in, along the green axis this time. We can type &quot;15 feet&quot; on the keyboard, and again, hit &quot;enter&quot; or &quot;return&quot; to create a line that's 15 feet long. Okay, let's continue with the line tool to complete the footprint of the house, which for our example will just be a 20-foot by 15-foot rectangle, but you can use the line tool to create any shape you need for your own project. Of course, we could have using the rectangle tool. To do that, select the &quot;rectangle&quot; tool, click once to begin drawing the rectangle, then use a comma to So &quot;20 feet, comma, 15 feet,&quot; followed by &quot;enter&quot; or Keep in mind, I'm using feet but if you're using metric &quot;centimeters,&quot; or &quot;millimeters&quot; instead. And also, know that you can enter decimals or fractions here if you need them. Even though the dimension a text field where you would you don't want to ever do this. Clicking will inevitably you're trying to do, which The right way to enter a dimension is to simply click to move your mouse in the direction you want to draw or edit in, then type the dimension on your keyboard and hit &quot;enter&quot; or &quot;return&quot; And remember, SketchUp draws everything at a one-to-one scale. So if you've drawn a rectangle and entered the correct or the opposite happens and you just need to adjust your view by zooming and panning in All right, we've created a Now let's use that to create our walls. To do that, let's select Then, we'll click once on and move the mouse to begin Here, we'll want to move our cursor so the edges are offsetting so the exterior dimensions of our walls remain 20 feet by 15 feet. Then, we can enter the dimension for the thickness of the walls. In our example, we'll just type &quot;six inches&quot; and press &quot;enter.&quot; Next, let's right-click on the middle face and pick the option for &quot;erase.&quot; All right, we're off to a great start, and we've created the profile we'll need to make our 3D walls. Let's orbit the model so we're in more of a bird's-eye 3D view. Next, let's select the &quot;push-pull&quot; tool and then hover our mouse over the face. It will actively highlight, and move the mouse up in to begin extruding the walls up in 3D. Again, we'll want the height of our walls to be dimensionally accurate, so let's go ahead and type in &quot;10 feet&quot; and press &quot;enter&quot; or &quot;return&quot; to finish the push-pull action. All right, we've created walls for our house. Before we get too much further, let's be sure to save our file. To do that, we'll just on the top left, then click name it, and click &quot;save.&quot; What's next? Perhaps the most important Number two, group early and often. As we covered in our &quot;Getting Started with SketchUp Free&quot; video, and most costly mistakes is failing to use groups. In other words, they model away, not realizing that is getting stuck together. And later, when they need to make changes, they end up with a As we like to say, &quot;group Your future self will (country music) So to protect something we from getting stuck to other stuff, we need to turn it into a group. To do that, first, let's Then, we'll triple-click on Then, right-click on that selection and pick the option for &quot;make group.&quot; Now, anything we draw won't get stuck to them. Practicing what we've learned so far, the next thing we'll want to do is create the floor and the roof. For the floor, let's orbit then pick the &quot;rectangle&quot; from one corner of the walls Then, we'll pick the &quot;push-pull&quot; tool, and click on the face of the rectangle, and begin to pull it down a bit, and on our keyboard, type &quot;four inches,&quot; and press &quot;enter&quot; or &quot;return.&quot; Next, let's switch to the &quot;select&quot; tool, and triple-click on the floor Notice that we didn't select the walls. They're protected by being a group. And we'll right-click and make We'll follow the same process It'll be easiest to make it flat now, and then we can come back So we'll orbit to get a better and use the &quot;push-pull&quot; tool This time, we'll set it to eight inches. Then, let's also give our roof an overhang by using the &quot;push-pull&quot; tool again. We'll say &quot;two feet,&quot; and to complete the action. Again, let's not forget the and make the roof into a group. Okay, now that we have our we're ready to move on edit groups to add detail. The next thing we'll want is start to add in more details, such as window and door openings. As you know, the groups from getting stuck to one another, but they're also protected from See how SketchUp won't let us push-pull any of the faces inside the groups? So how do we edit something We'll need to enter &quot;edit First, let's orbit to get a good view for what we're trying to work on. In this case, we're going to add window and door openings to our &quot;walls&quot; group. Next, we'll right-click and pick the option for &quot;edit group.&quot; Now we're inside the group container, and are able to edit the In order to create our openings we first need to figure out To do that, I recommend using the &quot;tape measure&quot; tool Let's set some up for We'll pick the &quot;tape measure&quot; tool, then click and let go on the vertical edge of the right corner of the wall. Then we'll move our mouse to the left, in the red direction, from the edge of the wall. We'll want our guideline to be three feet from the outside edge of the wall, so we'll type &quot;three feet,&quot; and press &quot;enter&quot; or And the guideline will be Next, let's repeat those three feet from the left edge. Finally, we'll create a guideline for the height of the opening. Using the &quot;tape measure&quot; tool again, we'll click once and let go, and move our mouse up Then, we'll type in &quot;eight feet,&quot; press &quot;enter&quot; or &quot;return&quot; on our keyboard, and the guideline will be placed eight feet from the bottom edge. Now that we've created accurate guidelines for where the opening will and &quot;push-pull&quot; tools First, let's pick the &quot;rectangle&quot; tool. Then, draw a rectangle from where the guidelines meet to where the vertical guideline This rectangle will be Next, let's pick &quot;push-pull.&quot; Then, we'll click once and let go on the face of the rectangle we just drew, and push-pull towards the We're looking for a blue inference stock that says &quot;on face.&quot; And may also notice that the white face flickers with blue splotches. When we have this &quot;on we can click again to and SketchUp automatically That's because when we push-pull the two faces cancel each other out, making it easy to carve Let's repeat the same for the window on the side of the house. We'll start by orbiting We should still be in edit group We can tell if we see around our walls. Again, we'll use the &quot;tape measure&quot; tool to create guidelines Let's set these three feet from each side, and the bottom of the window Then let's create another which we can set to five feet for the height of the window opening. And again, once the we can draw a rectangle, to punch out the window opening. Great. Now that we're done we'll want to exit &quot;edit group&quot; mode. To do that, let's hover our cursor in the space away from the group, right-click, and pick the Now, to clean our view up, since we no longer need these guidelines, let's open the &quot;display&quot; and select &quot;delete all guides.&quot; All right, we've got the basic shape of our house drawn accurately, and everything is safely grouped. We're ready for the next step. Number four, stay organized with tags. As we create more detailed we'll end up with a lot of groups. And while groups won't get stuck together, sometimes they can get making it hard for us to see or edit the part of the model Fortunately, we can use the to turn the visibility Not only can this be helpful and need to hide something in our way, but it's also useful later we want to see in our final So now that we have a let's create and assign some tags to stay organized and make it easier to edit what we need to as we continue on. Let's start with the roof. First, let's open the &quot;tags&quot; panel on the right side of the screen and click on the &quot;plus&quot; Then, double-click the &quot;tag And on our keyboard, to finish creating the tag. Next, we'll need to assign To do that, let's and pick the option for &quot;entity info.&quot; In the entity info dialog box, we'll see that the We can click on &quot;untagged&quot; and then select the roof And now we've assigned Now in the &quot;tags&quot; panel, we can click on the &quot;I&quot; icon to toggle on and off the Okay, let's repeat these and assign tags to the &quot;walls&quot; (bright music) Great. Now our model is organized Number five, use components. So far, everything we've created, we've turned into a group. But now let's talk about something called a &quot;component&quot; in SketchUp. They work a lot like groups, but components have that can really come in handy, especially when it comes to things we plan to use more Let's take a look at what I mean by that by using a metal roof as an example. For a 3D representation of a metal roof, we'll want evenly spaced ribs running the length of the roof. To create those, we'll above the roof and looking down on it. Next, we'll use the rectangle tool and start by clicking on the then drawing across to the other side, then type &quot;2.5 inches, comma, 17 feet,&quot; and press &quot;enter&quot; or &quot;return&quot; Then, we'll use &quot;push-pull&quot; to pull it up three-quarters of an inch. Now, before we go any further, we want to protect this from getting stuck to anything we do next. Based on what we've learned so far, your instinct might be so it won't get stuck to anything. (hands clapping) (electronic ding) However, in this case, we're going to turn this roof and we'll talk about why in a minute. To make a component, let's follow the same Using the &quot;select&quot; tool, we can triple-click on then right-click on that let's pick the option Then we can name the No need to worry about the other options. Let's also take a second now Okay, we're going to want a number of ribs evenly spaced out across our roof, but we don't have to draw Let's talk about another trick instead. We can use the &quot;move&quot; So we'll start by picking the &quot;move&quot; tool. Tap the &quot;option&quot; key on your or the &quot;control&quot; key if you're on a PC, and notice that a &quot;plus&quot; symbol appears next to the &quot;move&quot; tool cursor. This lets us know we've Now, any object we click to move will create a copy of that Let's move a copy of the rib by hovering over the inside we'll click and let go on that point, then move the cursor on then click and let go to But wait, if you're take your hands off and don't do anything else yet. We just moved a single copy of the rib, but here's the trick. As soon as we move a copy, we have the ability to tell SketchUp that we want multiple copies instead. For example, we can type &quot;five&quot; and then press &quot;enter&quot; or &quot;return,&quot; and we will end up creating Notice that there are six ribs. The first one is the original, and the other five are the copies. What we've just done is That means that we moved and then told SketchUp to divide that distance equally for the five copies. But the best part is we don't have to get it right on the first try. We can type &quot;15, forward slash,&quot; and hit &quot;enter&quot; or &quot;return,&quot; and now we've got 15 or 16 total ribs, including the original. And we can keep making or click to begin Pretty cool, right? If you like that little trick, make sure to give this video a like. All right, we now have multiple And remember how earlier, I mentioned the components if we have multiple copies in our model? Well, now I can show you what I mean. Let's say that we've done all this work, but now we decide that the if we added some detail. With a component, we can it doesn't matter which one, and pick the option for &quot;edit component.&quot; Then, using the &quot;move&quot; tool, we can click on the top in the red direction, and type and press &quot;return&quot; or &quot;enter.&quot; Then, we can do the same moving it in three-quarters of an inch. Notice that when you edit one component, all of the others are edited Okay, we're done editing Let's right-click outside and pick the option for &quot;close component.&quot; Now we're ready for the next step. Number six, use nested So far, we've covered and individual components, but there might be times a collection of groups and/or components as a unified object. For example, what if we and the ribs together as one object so that we can give the roof a slope? In that case, we can actually select more than one group or component and turn the entire selection into its own group or component. Let's try it. Using the &quot;select&quot; tool, let's click and drag a selection window around the roof and roof rib components. We just need to be careful not to select the &quot;walls&quot; group or the &quot;floor&quot; group. Then, let's right-click on the selection and pick the option for &quot;make group.&quot; Now this is one big group that we can think of as a parent group. Inside it are what we call This can feel a little confusing at first, but one way to think about it are like containers for our geometry. We started out making some end points, edges, and faces in the shape of a roof, which we put into a roof group container. Then we made a few more end points, edges, and faces in and put those into a Then we made a bunch of copies of that roof rib component container. And finally, we took and all of the roof rib and we put all of them inside a bigger parent group container. And now that we've got everything grouped in a parent container, we're ready to rotate the To do that, let's pick the &quot;rotate&quot; tool, then hover the mouse over the bottom back corner of the roof. We can always zoom in or orbit For this rotation, we'll to be active in the red direction. If it's flip-flopping around in the green or blue directions, we can try making a subtle or even orbit a tiny until we get the red direction cursor. Once we do, click and let go. That sets our cursor down and creates the central pivot point for our rotation. Now we have two more clicks to use the &quot;rotate&quot; tool correctly. First, we'll need to select meaning the plane that will be rotating anchored on the central So we can move the mouse and click anywhere along that edge, then move the mouse up to begin rotating the roof and ribs up. And we'll see that the roof rotates up and around the pivot point. In the bottom right of the browser window, notice that the measurements box is showing us the degrees of rotation. And remember, SketchUp when we need it to be. Let's set our roof with a two-12 pitch, or nine and a half degrees. Type &quot;9.5,&quot; and press &quot;enter&quot; or &quot;return.&quot; The rotation will be set at All right, now we've set the but of course, now we'll where the walls meet the roof. Let's talk about how to fix Number seven, learn to So far, we've created then turned them into But in the real world, there are design changes and edits that need to be made along the way. This could get tricky the as it can be harder to imagine to the existing geometry. For example, we need to edit our walls so that they support the pitched roof. Of course, you'll run into where you'll need to make edits that look different than this one. But let's talk about how to using techniques you can First and foremost, remember in &quot;edit group&quot; or &quot;edit component&quot; mode in order to make changes edges, and faces contained And sometimes, as we discussed we may need to edit groups or components nested within other groups or components. In those cases, we'll to right-click and select &quot;edit group&quot; or &quot;component&quot; as many times as needed until we're at the level For our example, however, we'll only need to right-click to be at the geometry level of the walls. Next, we'll need to consider will be most effective for When you're new to SketchUp, you won't have the experience for a given situation might So your best bet is to just Remember, if you try one thing you can always use the undo to get back and experiment Of course, there are also a number of ways to accomplish what we're trying to do, and there isn't necessarily but let's talk about one good First, let's orbit to and pick the &quot;line&quot; tool. Then, let's start by for the missing piece of the side wall. We already have the top edge of the wall, which will be the bottom Using SketchUp's inferences are snapping to the correct points, we can draw in the other And when the triangle is complete, the face will automatically fill in. Now, we can begin to to the same thickness as the walls. Then, we can orbit around and again use SketchUp's we're extruding the triangle as the wall, and click again Then we can repeat the same Now, for the front wall piece, if we just push-pull the top of the wall along the bottom of the roof. Instead, let's lever it of the triangle shape and Then, let's draw a line of the wall, up along the blue axis to the top edge of the triangle. SketchUp will split that and now we can push-pull that all the way across the All right, almost done. The final step is to erase We can do that using the &quot;eraser&quot; tool. It's looking good. Now, we can right-click outside the group and pick &quot;close group.&quot; Before moving on to our next major step, you can continue to the groups using the same techniques we've covered to clean up any overlapping Then, we're ready for the next step. Number eight, use pre-made When it comes time to add know that you don't have to SketchUp Free comes with which is a vast library of that are free to use in your projects. The 3D warehouse makes of all kinds of different objects from furniture, to plants, And many of them are made to the exact product specifications by Using these 3D components and can make your models look great. Let's learn and practice on our example project. To access the 3D warehouse, on the right side of the screen. This will open a new by clicking on thumbnails or search for something more specific. For our house, let's search and press the &quot;return&quot; key. The results are divided into categories. So above all the models, collections, and catalogs. Products are components that are accurate representations and have been verified by the company that makes the product. Models are any other type of component. Note that many models can be extremely accurate representations of been made and verified they'll still fall under &quot;Collections&quot; are like folders of models. Any SketchUp user can save collections, like folders of their favorite models, to make it easier to access them later. Often, a good way to find nice models is looking at collections And lastly, &quot;catalogs&quot; only they contain products At this point, we could and it would be imported But to make things easier for we've gone ahead and of components suited to our house example, including a window. To find it, type &quot;SketchUp school&quot; in the search box and press &quot;return.&quot; Then, we can click on and click on the &quot;how to model a house in SketchUp Free&quot; thumbnail. There, we'll see the &quot;window&quot; component. Then, we can click on the &quot;download&quot; icon in the lower right to download When we download something it comes into our project attached to the &quot;move&quot; tool cursor. Now, let's hover over the bottom and click on it to set the window down. Don't worry if it's not Now take note, when we down on the bottom of the Our first click should in a logical place relative to where it eventually needs to go. For something sitting on the floor, we would click to set it on the floor. In this case, the window so that's where we set it down. Next, we'll need to rotate to face the right way. Even though we're going we can actually do all of To do that, if we hover four red &quot;plus&quot; symbols appear. Let's hover over one of the red pluses, it doesn't matter which one, and the cursor will turn into Once we see that, we can click then move the mouse to begin rotating the window about its center point. We can hover over the tick to rotate in 15 degree increments until we get to 90 degrees, then click and let go to end the rotation. Next, we'll move the where it needs to sit. To do that, we need to be intentional about the point we click on then move that point onto a For this example, it's best end point of the window, onto the bottom corner and click to finish moving the Great, now we can repeat the same steps to add the folding door. So we'll open the 3D warehouse, in the &quot;how to model a house then download it, and finally, we'll use the &quot;move&quot; tool, exact points to move it into place. And as you probably saw we've included all sorts to both the interior and So now would be a great time and add various components to your model. If you can't find something, or you just want to say hi, let us know in the comments below. All right, there's one related to using components Sometimes, you'll download The scale might be way isn't built in the way you'd like. Often, the best bet might and then go look for On the other hand, if but just needs to be slightly it is possible to edit from the 3D warehouse, just as Just know that, depending on the level of difficulty can range from fairly straightforward especially if whoever made the model didn't group their geometry. All right, there's one and that's for us to remember to create tags for these Of course, there's no right but we could, for instance, all our furniture and fixtures to. That way, it would be easy for different views that we might need. Okay, now that we've from the 3D warehouse, let's Number nine, add colors and materials. As we've been adding components, you've probably noticed colors and materials applied to them. But now let's talk about how to the elements we're creating ourselves. To do that, let's right-click and pick the option for &quot;edit group.&quot; Then, let's pick the paint bucket tool. Then we can click on the &quot;browse&quot; icon in the panel on the right and pick colors. Next, scroll down the and click on one to fill our Then, we can move the mouse and click to paint that And what about materials We can right click and pick the option for &quot;close group.&quot; Then, right-click on the Let's scroll down the list of until we can see the other Click on the wood category to reveal a few wood material swatches. Click on one of them to fill the paint bucket then move the cursor onto and click on it to paint That's right. Just like flat colors, we can paint materials That's because the material of real world materials that are designed to tile or repeat across Okay. A couple of things to note here. First, the materials that are available in SketchUp Free are low resolution. So they may look a little blurry, especially when we zoom in close. If you want to import you can do that by going to the top menu and clicking &quot;import.&quot; From there, select the you'd like to bring into SketchUp, and then &quot;select material.&quot; You'll see the image attached Click to add it to the desired face, and you'll see that you to whatever size you desire. Click again, and SketchUp and automatically tile it. Inserting your own images for things like rugs or artwork than you'll get out of I've made sure to add links materials resources in And the other minor thing to note, if you want to customize for example, picking an one of the default swatches, if you upgrade to the desktop Okay, now that you know how this is a great time for you by repeating these steps and to the rest of the house. Just remember that you of &quot;edit group&quot; or &quot;component&quot; mode to paint the individual faces. All right, once we've got all we're ready for the last step. Number 10, create a final rendering. We've done a great job putting together our first house in SketchUp Free. Now it's time to show it off First, we'll want to navigate to find a nice view of the model. Then, we can try out some of to see if we like any of them. To do that, let's click to open the &quot;styles&quot; panel. There, we can see a bunch of options from standard colors to black and white, to more artistic and sketchy styles. Feel free to try any of them by simply clicking on For this example, though, let's stick to a standard color and then let's talk about Let's open up the &quot;display&quot; Then, let's check the Now, we can slide the to see shadows cast across the model. All right, this is looking pretty good. And now that we have a view and we need to save a scene. To do that, let's click to open the &quot;scenes&quot; panel on the right, then click the &quot;plus&quot; If you get a warning, just pick the option for Now, if we navigate we can always get right by clicking on the scene thumbnail. We can also use the other views of our model For instance, if we had a section cut using the &quot;section plane&quot; tool, we could switch to a &quot;top-down&quot; view, switch from &quot;perspective&quot; open the display panel then use the &quot;styles&quot; panel to set our view to &quot;black and white,&quot; and we've got a nice looking plan view, which we can save as a new scene. And again, if we want to we can click on the &quot;scene&quot; thumbnail, and the style, visible tags, to their settings for that saved scene. All right, now that we've and we're ready to export our final image, let's talk about what to do next. First, it's always a good Then we'll go to the and pick &quot;download PNG.&quot; If you need a different image file format, like a &quot;JPEG,&quot; for example, you'll need to upgrade So for now, we'll stick with a PNG. In the &quot;export&quot; window, we can set our desired pixel dimensions and any other &quot;view&quot; options. Just know that PNG is a raster image, meaning it has a set pixel dimension. If you need the sort of is crisp at any size, you'd and you can only export vector Also, be aware that any image you export out of SketchUp Free will watermarked in the upper right corner. To export an image without the logo, you'll also need to upgrade. And there's one last when it comes to exporting a final image. There are a ton more if you upgrade beyond SketchUp Free. For instance, with SketchUp Pro, you can use a rendering that will allow you to create and add realistic materials to your model to create beautiful And if you need to export CAD drawings like DWGs, or even a full set of with detailed dimensions and annotations, you can only do that with a We have comprehensive on our website if you're Or if you're not ready but you are interested in we have some great videos that will get you started Okay, now that you've to building a house in If you're not sure SketchUp Free has all the features you need, and you're wondering to either SketchUp Shop or SketchUp Pro, then I recommend checking out this video, which compares all the features of the different versions of SketchUp, or head over to this page on our website and send me a quick message And I'd be happy to let you know which software I recommend for you. Until next time, happy sketching. (bright music) Then we'll need to whisk that We want to go ahead and set those there.