Just try! I'll get you my pretty Can you even have a great ...Okay, maybe you can, but I'm sending it back to hell where it belongs. Were you in love with her beast? And that's true even for non-Disney movies. Human beings define their reality Is this your king? I'm your number one fan. I won't touch Barton. Not until i So it's no surprise that when a thousand greatest villain of all time their Good morning. He's not even on the list?? Fools! Idiots! Imbeciles!! Could they really not find space for a villain to settle an epic grudge -- hiding in plain sight -- until he could twist the hero of in order to enslave the universe to his will? What exactly is being overlooked here? Is it the scope of palpatine's plan Because after, all a villain Do I really look like a guy with a plan? By the time of the Phantom is about to execute the next step in his and no one has any idea. They're all way too focused on the scheme unfolding right before their eyes -- Oh hey, maybe they could start a YouTube channel! So his evil scheme... is he really I have never known the plot of this movie until Okay... I don't get it Imbeciles!! Unfortunately, Palpatine isn't the and announce his plan to destroy civilization: &quot;You are about to die at the Why should he? He's got the and the Jedi think the Sith's return is -- &quot;Impossible. The Sith have A millennium is a long time That would be like if the descendants of Genghis When the Sith went extinct, it was clearly at and it sounds like whatever happened then &quot;This republic has stood for a thousand years...&quot; That's why the Jedi seem so confident. And yet the Sith seem pretty &quot;At last we will reveal ourselves to That's because the Jedi order has lost a step. Now they're just an inflexible hierarchy making &quot;The Force is strong with him.&quot; &quot;No. He will not be trained.&quot; Whatever they were before, there's As Dave Filoni says, this sense that is what makes Qui-gon's death so tragic. &quot;What's at stake is really because Qui-gon is different than the rest and Qui-gon is fighting because he but instead of that father, Anakin gets this one &quot;The Chosen One the boy may be, but agree with your taking this boy &quot;The rest of the Jedi are so detached that they've really lost their way and Yoda starts to see that in the second that's a failing for Anakin he doesn't have the the family that he &quot;What will happen to me now?&quot; Palpatine steps into that filling his head with a very &quot;You are the most gifted Jedi I have ever met. &quot;I will be the most powerful Jedi ever.&quot; And since Anakin's relationships both with the Jedi Council and with Obi-wan Palpatine is the only person who &quot;They've finally given you an In fact, he's essentially the only person from the &quot;The republic's anti-slavery laws--&quot; In many ways the Prequels are who get a hold of the messiah and then The war doesn't go well, either. What we get to see of the There's a reason people wanted more of it. Like a lot more of it This is a really good show, by the way. But for the story Lucas was telling, about the Clone Wars are how That's certainly all that matters to Palpatine. You know the funny thing about this promise? &quot;I will not let this republic be split in two.&quot; He kept it. There were never two sides to the war Of course it looks like you have versus the Jedi and the clones and the Republic, but the reality is, all of these It was a proxy war. It was a sham. A manufactured crisis that made &quot;We're keepers of the peace not soldiers.&quot; Destabilized planets across the galaxy: &quot;We are being held hostage&quot; And extended the range of Palpatine's control. Listen to the music here: This is the birth of the Empire This is why Palpatine plunged and made peacekeepers forget their purpose. Politics. And the Jedi just stood by and watched -- They totally missed the importance of -- uh wait The Jedi's fate is inextricably and who is the only person he trusts? Not them. &quot;My trust in them has been shaken.&quot; But they don't see this. They They kind of look like idiots honestly. &quot;Chancellor Palpatine Sith They don't notice when Palpatine uses And when they finally discover the truth, They just assume that it's gonna go the And the Jedi council's rejection of Anakin. &quot;You're on this council, but we do Comes back to haunt them. When Palpatine activates Order 66 the Jedi who scoffed at the idea of are annihilated in a matter of minutes most of them never knowing how And now the path was clear for Palpatine to He promises the galaxy: Although we get to see the fates of those who &quot;Lord Sidious promised us peace!&quot; Palpatine's final victory is Revenge of the Sith is like a where the Republic's political and and its hero tries to murder his wife, and being consumed by wrath and when it's all over Palpatine swoops and Darth Vader is born as the last person in the galaxy who still Who is Palpatine's competition exactly? Satan? Because that's basically who Palpatine is. He dragged the most promising returning him to the state as a machine with a skull &quot;And I'm telling you this How tepid contemporary art seemed compared So you have this like huge the apocalyptic landscape of the lava. Then Lucas cross cuts to the and you have the destruction of industry going on and then after all these I'm saying my god! Nothing in the last thirty years in as emotionally compelling and significant as the finale of Revenge of the Sith.&quot; In other words the only thing that is the scope of Star Wars itself.