SELECT &quot;AUDIO TRACK&quot; [metal detector beeps] They are showing me the deepest hole However, they had to stop because two people died. It was so deep that they so they abandoned the hole It is truly a very I understand that it could because every day could if you find the right nugget. My name is Giuseppe and I have a mission: to travel the world, to meet the most extraordinary and to ask them a simple question: &quot;What does happiness mean to you?&quot; Welcome to Project Happiness. I am a few hundred a city that has earned because dozens of gold deposits An incredibly pure gold from all over the country, Unfortunately the price to be paid is often too high and many They lose their lives because We want to visit them to understand what motivates them to live here, in this area, risking their lives. Finding them is not easy because these gold mines are it wouldn't make sense to So we relied on a gentleman who, is taking us right into the area. We will spend a few to understand why they risk their The stone most prized by human beings. Guys, get comfortable... because a great adventure in search of a new ingredient The Sahara desert has become the stage Thousands of adventurers, and yearning to improve are pouring into Mauritania, the last country where The mines are located in a for the absence of rules in which prospectors try their luck. Even one nugget could but many of them die I got the green light from to go and talk to his workers. He just got into the pickup with us, he's taking us there to tell Because imagine how they're looking for gold here, they don't want anyone from the owner of the whole concession. It seems we're good to go. The prospectors are men They have never worked in a mine, but in a country in which the the promise of a better life through This exponentially already very risky in itself and by lack of the right equipment What is the deepest one here? There are some that are 100 meters? 100 meters deep. Some even more. This one and this one are not the same. This one probably has gold in it. It may not be much, but This is a hard stone, So there will be a greater But not in this one. the leader's son is very friendly with a very small stone on the Just from this simple clue trying to find and then follow the veins of gold among the rocks. Once a vein is found, brought to the surface with a and divided based on This guy's father is He wants to show us a rock in and so he knows why he Where do you use it? This one? Everywhere. So there are workers using Like this. You can try it. I can work for you for a few hours. Here we do this, we give and I leave them a percentage. 10%, 20%, something like that. If I find something, 10% is for me. And the rest goes to me. I am the one who purchased it. And you come here with nothing. Take this and go seek your fortune. That's how it works. What do you do about food? Here we are far from everything. We buy everything from Chami We have everything. - Water... Is this the water? Yes. I would like to try it to Of course, you can look here... Let's do 10% for me and the rest for you. Deal. Actually, let's do this: If you find something Wow! No problem. Thank you very much! You are welcome. I know that you say this because it's very unlikely I'll find anything. No, it is not hard! It's not like it's hard. Let's try, guys. I found nail clippers. Oh! Ah, no, it was a nail. Because it beeps when there's metal. I have been doing this for just 10 minutes but there's that little thrill of being able to really find gold. And perhaps that is what drives to stand here in the middle of the desert, leading a truly wretched Because it's like gambling. You bet on it being here and if you find it, Like winning the lottery, but in the meantime your life passes by. You are far away from your family, you risk your life. In the meantime, In the meantime, you might die as well. It's truly a very However, I understand that it because every day your life if you find the right nugget. You really feel an emotion as if your life could change forever. Exactly. Perhaps this is the most Of life. Have you ever fished in the sea? Yes. Fishing with a rod. It is the same thing! It is not about earning Obviously it's also about the money, But it's more about lust! It's the desire to fish. And it is the same with And there is a fever that has killed many people. Just to search for gold. This is why it is called &quot;gold fever.&quot; If you get gold fever, it means that one day you will find gold. And do you have this fever? From day one! Ever since I found out that gold had been found in Mauritania. The earth seen from above appears to but this is simply the consequence of the gold rush on the environment. It is a feverish race to see who and every sacrifice, every risk because of the great promise That's precisely what gold fever is. You always think you are one but often the perception of All these efforts and sacrifices, Well, it's extremely hard work. You could dig all your Or dig just a little bit God alone decides our fortune and I'm in the hands of Allah, as long as I have the strength Can you describe the It is a great thrill when you find gold! To celebrate, you take a nice shower You finally put on clean One must be clean and neat to Sending money to our families. Once this is done, I begin to fantasize about how I'm going in houses, or cows, or goats. To date I have found nothing. But when I find it, I would They're showing me the deepest hole they had to stop digging for gold here because two people died It was so deep that they so they abandoned it with the two These are the deepest holes dug by gold miners in Mauritania. Many of these are about 100 meters deep. In this very one two people died. You can see with your own eyes that there are no security measures. Now all these digs have been abandoned because the government said and that it was better to dig This gentleman agreed Here they clearly divide the so we are going into his hole because it's one of the All others were closed Even here in the middle in this cosmic nothingness, Protecting yourself when surfing online. And you already know how: with NordVPN! If you've been thinking about this is probably the perfect time because it's NordVPN's birthday and in the link in the by choosing a 2 year plan, and a coupon valid for 3 months of free NordVPN subscription By now in 2024 using with all the risks there are online, only after they have However, by using your your whole family's For example, you can protect Using NordVPN with your router, Or protect up to 6 devices at once with NordVPN's app. I'll leave the link in the and to navigate safely online. Now let's go back to digging for gold. They are all rightly worried about me because the hole is 45 meters deep, so falling in there means They are used to being but there is no oxygen. Assan is the most experienced worker and he offered to somehow to give us a sense of when descending into these holes. Ah, it's on! Okay. Okay, I'm going down. I'm starting to descend. In the name of God. In the name of God the In the name of Allah I descend. I am entering the hole! Here I am. In the name of God! It's starting to get hot. Entering the pit. Okay, so... This is a good stone. It's all crumbling here. I see less and less. Once you hit the bottom, the temperature can A work shift can These are very dangerous and I did it. Thank you very much! How did it go? Good? Thank God. Thank you. Are you ever afraid when you go down? Anyone who enters that How long have you been doing this work? I don't know how much I believe since 2016. And why did you start? Digging for gold is more Some times I make EUR1000, It is not always the same. And to think, in the last two months We are broke! We didn't find anything at all. And where is your family? Far away? They are in Kubanni. It has already been four Having my family far away is We could buy a bag from this man and take it directly to Chami, a city more than 100 km away. We can buy a bag? Exactly, we'll buy a bag Thank you. Thank you very much, man. Deal! We are going to buy a that they wanted to have tested. If we find gold we split it 50-50. Let's see how it goes. Similarly to other gold rushes that have happened the city closest to the mines distorts, drawing in criminal gangs and mingling perfectly among the gold diggers and offering quick relief from a life This is Chami. I don't know how you pictured it, but I didn't picture this. It's been totally defaced to mine gold. We were asking workers about and they explained that A prospector must bring and set them there with Once the stone is poured it will be ground for 5 hours and that gold will amalgamate with It's a very dangerous material, however, Mercury binds with 30% The other 70% is It is counterintuitive, That 70 percent cannot be extracted, Because it takes even so they sell that wastewater which are much better So if you are a prospector you while your stones are ground they will be filtered You may have noticed that all the workers wear a headdress that is It is very traditional; all men use but unfortunately in this Some of them lost their getting caught in those And unfortunately sometimes it In this pot they're filtering now, you can see traces of mercury to see if it has attracted They didn't find anything. What we naively thought was gold was actually a mercury residue that the gentleman recovered He said it's not dangerous if you use So imagine, from all those tanks, they haven't collected anything, Not a single shard of gold. It is a job without any assurance. You can bring in hundreds of As expected, not the slightest trace But prospectors luckier than us sell their loot here at EUR56 per gram, which is in small part while most of it is shipped abroad to buyers who don't The supervisor of those to see a nugget they found The gentleman was very kind. He is showing us one of and this was definitely a great find. This is...? 1.5 grams. He explained that he does not know But he has to take it to have it appraised This is the whole process. Once the gold is extracted, And he also tells me I can buy it from him, but he cannot assure me Before leaving the El we go back to the mines to thank the leader of the gold miners and his son for his great helpfulness and to Why do you think we are I prefer gold because It doesn't come from banks A clean thing. Who was your teacher? None. I came directly from Nouakchott. I came directly to Taziazet. With our equipment, my brothers and I. Can it be said that you became Not rich! But at least we are staying afloat. Sometimes you find Still other times just enough But rich, not yet. We hope, God willing, to Do you think that one day &quot;That's enough, I've found enough gold&quot;? No. Even if I find tons of gold, I So it's not about gold or getting rich. It is not just a matter of getting rich. It is a way of life. It is how you wish your children to live. It is a job that your children... Or rather, you want your Are you ever afraid of Afraid of dying? No, I am never afraid. If this hole goes too deep and I begin to be afraid to go down, even at 17 meters for Then I dig another hole. Even if you know there is Yes. Some people cannot stop. But other people think that it is more important than But some of them do not stop and die. What is happiness to you? Being happy for us Muslims Being happy means God gives. Even if you have billions, you You won't take them to the grave. Everything will stay here and God will ask us, &quot;What did because it is God who gives us money. When he gives it to you Because when you are happy but for us Muslims, it doesn't make sense. God has told us that we need We are sure that if we He will reward us today and tomorrow. This is our goal and we are sure of it! That's what being happy is all about! The leader seems to contradict but it actually shows the Most of these people will never They'll never be satisfied with what being almost blinded by an obsession On the other hand, their happiness to material success, but more to the freedom of choosing one's The possibility of a new life, away from the injustices of society. And it is almost ironic that, in one of the most inhospitable where perhaps it would being able to move away from the complexity of the constantly torn between the and the temptation to give in to the lust of endless desire. ENGLISH SUBTITLES: