Hey, everybody. Welcome to another episode of what? Now with Trevor Noah. Of today's episode, I sit down with comedian The one and only Kevin Hart, Now, I always have fun conversations but this conversation I think we get into comedy, life that makes Kevin Hart who he is, I really had a great time you'll enjoy the conversation too. But this is what now with Trevor Noah. Change comes to. He comes in here with his people. He takes all my shit. That's sweet. Give me a hug. I don't look at it. Look at fucked up my backdrop. What happened to our stuff? Sit down. Kiss your snot. Hi, there. How are you? Oh my God. I'm ready. Is this how you dress every day? This. Yeah. How far do you live from here? I don't wanna talk about it. I don't wanna talk about it. But I'll do it I'm in Calabasas, I mean, every day I come in Do I come in every day? Yeah. So? So I was 15 to come in our night during traffic time. But if I wait, No traffic, 35 minutes. Are you going to get a drone, Yeah. Why? Why am I getting a drone? You haven't seen the drones that are They'll be coming out in a few years. They'll be little drones Why do I want to fly on a drone? I want to be in traffic, Oh, wait. You don't like the drones? Yeah. Like you. And then you can just go. You're going to be in a drone. I'm not going to lie to you right If you're telling me that it's and I can get in a drone. I'll do it. If you're telling me You know, most people No, no, They gotta have air bags. That drone will have air. I think they do, actually. before. So how is it going? Everything great? Good for you, man. I'm like I'm. You're in like you're Yeah. No. It's good. You can always feel, You can always feel So I feel like We have. Will I ever be funny again when we have cooking mode where you're excited coming together and then you have I need to find a new job Yeah, yeah, that's like at the end of you want to tape But that's why I always take Like when I'm. When I'm. What do you mean early? Like early If I'm on tour because, You know, So when I'm at, like I'm laughing at 60 shows, Wow. Because my process starts, theaters, back to comedy clubs, Then I'll go arenas. Why are you going back? Nothing went wrong. All right, let me make sure I'm Because once you start that mean I remember talking to Dave years ago. There's a time when Dave Chappelle, Dave never used to want to do arenas. I did it, and then he. And then he. I mean, obviously everyone wants to see him, I bet you you I, I sparked a spark, the arena bug Absolutely. Right? I said, Yeah. And and Dave, I gotta get over to Trev. I got to be honest with you, What? Let me tell you. Hear me out. Why? You agree? So I got Dave Buck. I said, listen to me, Dave. The beauty of doing the arenas okay, is turning the arenas Okay. You can turn it into You can never turn it into, oh Oh my God, Kev. Oh my God. The thing about arenas is I always feel like the laugh Have you ever sat in an arena? You always feel like that section Yeah, those people have the jokes They're, they're they're really They're not really laughing because arenas have this width, for laughter. It's designed for, you know, the basketball game is supposed to play the whereas it always feel like every single laugh no matter where Okay, so this is where this is Kevin Hart, Okay, think about my production. Yes, I think about every excessive, I might the audience. So the same way you can hear me you can hear the audience, So I'll do I probably do Maybe, maybe 8 to 10 mics The audience can hear the audience. So I need to find what section so I can just shout comments You just shout out, Shout things out. I know you put in Shout things up to the microphones. I I'll just be the guy I'm gung ho on But here's what you guys did. You do. But here's what you guys did. You love being the best of the best you have this weird. Where did you get that Do you did you play a lot of sport You ultra competitive? Yeah, As if you also played sports where That's that's the competitive. That's the biggest person Like, I've never been competitive I've been envious. Oh, you're Come on. Envious. I've never been competitive. I'm envious of my peers. And and I've I've said to myself, Oh my God, man, that's such a, such a good writer. Such a great writer. Yeah, such a great joke. Yeah. tell is such a great storyteller. God, I got to get back in the lab. I gotta I gotta really raise the bar because I'm so blown away has put on display. Yeah, yeah. What this particular talents I'm envious of your political humor. I'm envious of how you can go and then go into a space of travel different ethnicities You put like, I'm. That's not my thing. Right. So the thing that others do at a high level to be envious That's the biggest compliment I could operate like that there would be another dimension Yeah, I don't have that dimension. Hence why I stay away from it. You don't see me ever doing my favorite political bit of yours. And I know it's but I think it was way more political Is the bit being sucked into a Black Lives Black man in the middle of a bullhorn Black lives matter You're part of the problem The solution is death. Every black person showed up here We will all die today. We don't give a fuck about life. If you black you here If you black and you because you ready to die. First I look down, I'm I said, wait a minute. That's not why I came. I didn't come for that. That. Can I tell you something that. Yeah, but what I loved about that bit was it told a very true story into the allure of appearing to be, And now you just that speech in that I don't even remember. I just remember trying to trying yeah. It ain't. What do you say it ain't, it ain't. No, I know what it is. Now I gotta give a speech. You have to say something You realize but you gotta keep trying to say some That was my fucking speech. This is my speech. Word This is my speech. Y'all already know what it is. And what it is It ain't going to be what it is to be I hear you in it. And what what? I will say that to my friends I mean, like Amen It's able to work. Yeah, man. It ain't, it You know, That joke was so dope, for you, It was all because, to my point, Yeah, but it was about getting sucked you're supposed to do. Yes. And I was like, man, Yeah. You know, given this thing I'm going, oh, you know, can I, can I tell you one of the hardest is so one of my favorite movie And I don't know why this left was, dude, did you ever watch Absolutely. It was Charlize Theron, Yes, there's a scene in the movie. So the plot of the movie, and I'll spoiler because you're not going to see it. is, is basically Keanu Reeves plays I mean, yeah, he plays that lawyer. Charlize Theron is his wife, They meet Al Pacino, he's actually the devil. Devil? Yeah. And Keanu Reeves is basically But because he wants to be this lawyer, he's The conversation is basically, You're willing to trade your soul He doesn't do it in the end. But there's a moment Yeah. And then a reporter comes to him can I do a profile piece on you? And he goes, no, I don't want fame. And the guy goes, come on, a lawyer with a conscience, And Charlize looks at it and goes, And he goes, And they leave the the journalist turns into and he says a line that he dropped My favorite sin. I thought about, I don't know how old I just went to watch the movie There you go. Because at that time you can, I don't know if you remember it was, it was what I like to call Yeah. You did not see nudity Like kids today, I feel bad for them because there is a there's, like, Now, the random tit back in the day. Are you kidding me? Oh. Oh. Oh, pause it does. That's crazy. That's not. Oh what I have no, I have nothing accidental porn. But we just saw it and that was it. That was your moment. But. So that movie came out. I wasn't old enough to go see it, I think it, I don't know what movie Always find a movie I could then go out into another, Like, the reason is because I used to use Titanic Okay, you used that, You need a clean movie So, so devil's advocate But anyway, I remember that line. And for my entire life, is how hard it is that you may start off and then now stay in And I think a lot of, like, let's say people start off They go, I'm going to I'm I'm going to say these things. It starts off from a good place, you get that little hit with you know, like you said, it's short. King do your thing. And you go like, oh, now you start finding reasons that maybe you don't actually believe Man, we are high off the feeling. I'll give you another reality I remember where, you know, the power of the meme started, right? You know, like, somebody would pass away the meme, everybody's Right? And I remember, you know, I was like, Like, I met I met that person Let me, let me throw up a picture. You know, and show some love. Right. And I put up the picture and, you know, I don't get into the comments I have no desire to go and read But the first one I like and the first thing I see is And I was like, hey! I did, I did really, I didn't really know what. I was like, oh, probably never talk about me. I wasn't like a fucking idiot. I will follow Oh man, and put up with this man Oh come on, I was. You ain't even no bitch. And I had to sit there myself are the ones where someone Yeah, those are because most comments online And then there's love. But let's say it's just people But there will be someone Wait, wait. Even though oh man, you got now you got it, Yeah, you got me. You hit him on the head. I am struggling with that. I do need to figure that out. Oh man. But the the concept attached and not just conducive for you that was the And I love the honesty and transparency in it, a moment for me in my life yo, I'm not doing that anymore Like I'm not putting myself in any Yeah, what if I were to go through that they think I need to do, it's That's too many thoughts shaped itself into actually Like, I'm not, I'm not, Yeah, yeah. I'm no longer that machine or or entertaining the idea attached. What do you, what do you think I, I could be completely wrong. I'm taking a shot here. Okay? Every every artist where something happens, and you see that There is no denying that you came out with two of, When you first, when you first little grown man. I mean, they would they We all know what they were like We all know There are specials where you can go That's the time stamp You can't. Kevin Holt becomes a movie star. You kill it in everything. I mean, I remember you in 40 You you were honestly, cameo performers, pound for pound It was and everybody in the theater and nobody would know your name. Nobody know who that guy was. I love every time I tell and they'll be like, I'm like, yeah. Then they go. They go, oh, that was, oh shit, I remember, And I at me, oh man, I want it. So in a weird way, I you were because in a strange way, they didn't remember you were playing You get on saying, I mean, I'm not, because it does seem you were just the face of a franchise But I go like, Kevin Hart segments seven and ten on a call For years. Yeah. And I was fearless I was fearless about my approach I can say it was crazy Let me tell you how fearless I was. They were doing table reads and my manager was like, They just want some personalities Like, right, do the reason, It's just a way for you to get seen comedies, etc. I go here, I'm improvising during the table Coming back to the script in my mind, whatever the role is that at getting the role right. I leave the table, read within an hour, He says, Kevin, but they got a part for you if you're into it, and they want to talk about the part Very small part. Cameo, part. It was a friend. I talk about the part once again, Start improv. And yeah, doing things that I feel the character could do Oh my God, put all my ad libs in the script, as we talk about the hit, Oh my God. So if I present the funny material still on par with story script, That can be my point. So from that point on, There was the scary movies. It was Along Came Polly was 40 I mean, I can go down a list. Jake in progress. I was the guy that would come in and then after that scene, But I made it my business to be some funny, impactful moments Yeah, yeah. the casting Eventually they got to say, this guy, We should do something else And I remember Just didn't happen. I look back, man. I had like 12 cameos, all these credits, Nobody fucking knew me like The, he was in, Shit. What's your name? Goddamn it? But, We just saw him. What's the shit? He was in, clapping, stomping, It never could get it. The moment when they heard, the, he had on the hat, they say the, And you, like, just ask me, man, Now I fuck it, then they just leave. The worst is They say something that diminishes you in front of you By the way, He's the dude And then someone no, no, no, he's not that funny. The guy, he ain't that good. He's a stupid motherfucker. We said, what's the material? we said ugly as shit. Oh, man. Yeah, yeah. Well, yeah, I, I, I remember saying, all right, I'm going back to stand Then we got big after the specials. After the specials, where I transition A comedy club. Yeah. To multiple shows in theaters. Yeah. And when it got to the multiple shows at theaters, they're going to have to the movies are going to have to come So at some point it has to happen. Did they the movies did not come in the manner I thought they would. Right? Yeah, the opportunity did. Oh yeah. I like that. And yeah, I like So the movie offers it's It's very spiritual. The the opportunity came. Yes, this story is amazing, but I, I often try and remind people that most of the time, the moral that you will take of a person who was successful If you get an opportunity read what they give you. Yeah, don't do that. Don't do that and do it. Kevin Hart Like don't don't do it. This I can imagine people getting a script and they're like, we need you to help us Need like bam, boom, boom. Oh, shit. Don't tell. I'm sorry. Kevin. Can we. Yeah. I just thought maybe, And I pray I make sure I said, I made sure I said it correctly, I went in there I'm thinking about Yeah. And you could have I almost hope it would have an end. And I still hope But I would have loved that moment Yeah, just for someone else Here, let me tell you, This guy, this I mean, this guy. Talk about no respect meetings and Kevin Hart, I've never seen anything like. I mean, this guy, he could every word Yeah, I mean ridiculous. This is. No, you know the crap I mean, I remember there was one. I stood up, I stood up like one of the things Yeah, I was, I was going forward, this conversation, And so you have these seminal moments and you stand up and then I feel like And don't be offended but I feel like there's a moment where it almost felt like more than Kevin Hart was just being and and I say this as a comedian that's not I seen it like this of it So every comedian starts off in what Nothing you get on stage. The only thing you have and the only thing you receive is a You don't even get money. People, people don't realize He still owes me $15. Do you know that? It'll never happen. I've accepted it, So you. That's all you're getting is the Working or not, that's. It's something clicks. You start to become successful. Now there's a moment where on this You reach the peak, and now You don't have everything, you have everything And now fear sets in and you go, can I tell that joke, Is that crazy. Do I switch up my style. Because comedians And now because you have the people at this point What did I do that they liked? I guess I got to keep doing that. So you know what I mean. Doing now, especially in this, in You walked out and you feel even the baseball bat itself is such a This fucking bat in my hand. Bring your ass up to the stage. I'm gonna knock your fucking okay? I'm sick of you. Shit! Don't you come up here and knock your goddamn head Don't you come up here. Yeah, it just feels like. It's like, you know, I'm just like. What changed? Well, first of all, Trevor, It's a great question. It's a great observation, by the way, to my point earlier, it's Very well. Here's the big change. The first hint of success, the fear attached to keeping the success clicks Oh, shit. We sold all these tickets. Goddamn. Whoa! Tour was crazy. Sold out all over. All right, well, shit, Tour's over. Well, and I gotta figure out Yeah, because I got nothing. After tour is over, I want to make Watching, listening. You kill that material immediately. Yeah. I cannot recite a joke of old I blink because it, it has no more value The specials tape. The tour is over. Well, what the fuck Yeah. So the scramble is a scary scramble before you're like, Polish comedian ladies When you're the new comic, You're the new like you're new. So although you got this light, you're not poised. You also are situated, you're not. You got a hit. But you don't have There's no guarantee to the next. There's no guarantee or anything. There's no guarantee is going to sell as many tickets There's no guarantee There's no guarantee that the next There is no guarantee. By the way, at the time what we might overlook is that I was in like I was in a period I was in a period of, y'all can't sell movies Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, oh, yeah. This. And if these movies don't have Yeah. Bad investment. I told you black directors were going Yeah, you don't get another shot. So the fear and stomach. The stomach bubbles. This kids, well, stomach That is a will them Tim story myself We did right along Will Packer did Wedding Ringer I just named all six by the way, Okay, those six movies, you're looking at the trajectory There was never a comfortable moment You would tell me bubbles the whole I remember me and we like, well, because they don't If they don't come out. Damn. I mean, we ended up doing 140 million Oh my God, right along. Two man. If we don't do 140. Yeah. Oh it's a failure. I immediately. Oh fuck man, if we don't crack Yeah. Because they spent more money. The pressure. Well, let's go to stand up That's just. That's you. Yeah. You're you're developing the material that you hope enough that they'll laugh, love, Announce a special. By the way, when you announce it, All shit. I hope they bodies fucking good. They solid. All right, class, let's we never by the way. We never get over that feeling. Yeah, But what I'm saying is what changed? What changed? What changed for me not just success, but understanding. So my understanding now is, you know, I built a fan base, I built a global fan base of people that no matter what, show up because they go, I like that guy. And in that. But how did you develop The understanding comes you realize is not noise. The things that things like, Go ahead. Could be wildly wrong. I noticed the shift or I noticed the shift happening most. Apparently after the car accident. That was a that was a Shift number one I want to be a brand. I want to be a global brand, I want to own my brand attached to the craft goes away So once I saw that is something and I did that and I'm like, it's you think that changed your level Thousand percent? So I'm using stand up No, no, no, listen, listen, listen, because I feel like you had that I just agree. No, the drive, Drive is drive, right Yeah, but but what I'm saying is what I'm challenging you on is and I say this as an observer I think there's something because don't get me wrong, the businessman, and you, But sometimes, like, as Kevin Hart, you like, you have moments where but you have moments where, you know, because of your family unit, you know, what it was like growing up because it was like seeing your mom I think there are moments how much you push and drive because of the fear of losing you and your family to get to The fear is with motivates the complete sentences In other words, like but what I'm saying is, that fear has slipped and it cannot come from I do not believe that the drive I believe, and I could be wrong, There's something that comes. There is, there is, you know, you know, there's something that happens. I remember talking to an amazing and she she was one of the people just getting, like, that you don't think were like this was not normal. being like, And people were like, What is this? Now Come on. And people were like, And they're like, You gotta build ramps for you. Go, my God, this was a thing. I could not believe this when I, when I, when I spoke to this woman, And we were having this conversation. It's very funny, by the way. And, I said to her, I was I said, you know, disabled people. And she said, no, no, no. She says, And I paraphrase, she said, think of because she said the mistake a lot of people make is a permanent and predictable thing Yeah, but there is a form of disability is going to encounter It may be reduced mobility and it may be unfortunately, a severe traumatic accident, 1,000% and limits your ability to exist And Kevin Hart, as a person, there are two things that were growing, moving, as a comedian and as a performer You've been playing sport You've been pushing, growing, moving. There is something when there's There is something When a doctor walks into a room and goes, hey, your spine may not be and I think you move on so quickly that you don't allow yourself but you move very quickly and move You're very good at it, And I understand a lot of it. But the fear you gotta understand Like you come you can have real fear and you start to experience things of the bottom that you didn't know Yeah. And you continue to push and you The fear is going back to the bottom. Yeah. The fear the further you get from this is the thing There are a few things than starting to do and when your family has had nothing, because you know Yes, I always tell my friends I go, You do not think of your fault So when you think of failing, So let's say level 5 or 6, Your, And I go, this takes me back to zero Yeah. That logic right. Yeah. When you start building comes from I'm building so that if the fall ever happens, Oh, interesting. Oh okay. Think about when we've got Think about you fall, If you attempt to fail, No, I'm not going. And you just use the therapy Here's where I see who you are. Brother, here's Here's where you have to think. Here's where you have to go and write everything I advise every listener to, But listen, don't follow it, Don't follow. Okay? It works, but never it's Trevor is saying. Trevor is saying, hey, and they go, I'm not going to use No, that's not what I'm saying. Some people tell people that you're but you go, I'm going to follow and you tell me if I'm right First I'm going to say, let me say first you tell me You may try to say it differently So I'm going to say it first. Here's what it is man. Like I have watched people Yeah, comfortably. Perform comfortably. Work. Yes. And walk away with nothing. With nothing. Yes. Okay. Yes. The fear that I have. Yes. Is attached to the walk away. Yes. Or the opportunity to actually sit I have all these years in a business and my all has done for the operating machine, studios, all around me. And as the engine to that operation, Yes. Or the moment of memory. Because of that and because of me I said I refuse tonight of anything. So what I'm going to do, I'm going to And I got to this point where, okay, like if you go girl little man I was like, all right, well the tours and all this stuff I'm selling tickets, I'm paying money off the ass But I don't really have anything. The opportunity came up for me to go where they were like, you just made, you're going to fund that Right, right. And I was like, So I set out, you know, I'm getting again, here's this thing So I fell in love Okay. All right. And then owning that thing, I want to build something else All right. You know what? All right. Fuck that. I'm going to own something else that makes me go Okay? All right, I'm going to own. Hey, man, Shit, it's not as hard And if I build it correctly, Let's go now, VC, they invest in it. And why I got to take. Why, why, why I to listen to Why can't I raise my own Okay, ma'am. Guess what? This carpet that we stand on comfortably One day That's it. And when they do, if you got shit, Or if you got buildings Well, the security of mine, My security of mind, because I get you can't take what I built and what I built. It ain't under my name. It's under the brand. It's under the infrastructure That everybody else is ignored. So when I fall down. Oh, yeah. Kevin Hart may fall. But these buildings What them without you. And hey, when I'm done. Although it may be rough. Rocky. Whatever. My fucking kids and they gonna look at that shit. They want to go, Dad did some dope shit. My security that the brand, the operation, the business outside of Kevin Hart, I appreciate that I will never compromise So me going and selling It's a bonus Oh, I see what you've done. You see what I'm saying? It's a it's a it's a thank you. I'm completely I hear you completely. If I walk in the arena right today is a quarter full because 50 cent. What the front row who I got 51 folks. You know where I'm out of there. I'm like, man, I'm But you know what? I had about 13 years of. Have you have you ever done No, I've done one. No. And can I tell I shouldn't say that, that fans Really. Asshole. Oh that's fine. Yeah, I know, but let's not Kev, have you ever done an empty Half empty arena? Let me say, I don't know, do you have I would have to think about it. I mean, I'm quite We're going to go with the first. so I've, This was in Springfield, Missouri. It was really Deep Republican. like the you know, enclave. And my team said, this is it. We don't know the promoter. You've never been we don't even know We don't even know Let's see what happens. We went there. I think the arena, Could I think it could. The capacity was 6000 Yeah. I think we sold 3 everybody, when I walked in, we were at a funeral, I mean, everyone backstage. You know, You know, when, like, And I'll never forget this moment. They also don't know what your ego Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And dealing with that. Yeah. And so I said, I said oh how did we, And they said they said we've try to move some people down. We you know, It should be a good show. And and I remember I was chatting to with me on the road and, and I said You know, we didn't know And I said, Derek, it is so crazy how our perspective I said there was a time when we would dream of selling 300 tickets in a place Yeah. Now everybody here is morose when we have sold 3000 tickets I like the fact that people have come out in Springfield, I said, if you think about it properly, not coming to your show than people So if you focus on the people a bigger show. You've made it Can I tell you, I had more fun with ass time, because they felt like Because there's a weird thing when an arena isn't full, by the way. There's two things. One, Some people in the audience are like, people know this somewhere else. There's a moment of doubt, and then you, as the performer, and show the audience And then the second feeling I find in goes, no, We've chosen Trevor, Noah, Trevor This is not for everyone. And so this this experience becomes more into Yeah. And so what I'm saying I say you're a scaffolding brother, I have some scaffolding in me So don't just throw therapy words Therapy words at all. Don't get on your audience. There is not a therapist. It's a very selfish therapist. Like this is not therapy talk at all. It's scaffolding It's like tummy bubbles. What did how many bubbles? Like someone someone would use that Okay. All right. What I just said And I feel like tummy bubbles That's just the way That's a therapy. Okay. That's that's a therapy Don't go anywhere What now? After this. What I mean by a scaffolding there are two ways or there multiple ways, but I think of the prominent ways for us to deal with the idea or diminishing in life or whatever The one way is to build and what that scaffolding Okay. If, as Kevin Hart, Oh, okay. What do I have if as Kevin Hart, I'm not a comedian selling out, Okay, so let me diversify. I'm going to build up I'm going to build up these I'm going to own this. I'm I'm going to own that. I'm going I'm going that way. I'm in a situation where my eggs are not in one basket, I am, you know, I still have everything else I have basically created you know, that's that's why so that they don't go backwards But it's like, all right, to at least enable it and then we can sort of move back. But but it holds everything wet needs Right. I think is a great breakdown. Right. And I would encourage you to try it I know it's hard, don't get me wrong, and you have this mountain but I would encourage you the brands, beyond the buildings, And I would even speak I think you take for granted may not have as the building I would say you're probably correct. Not probably. Well, yeah, here's Are you said probably again. Well, I'm going to tell you the idea of follow through early on it presented itself. And I never took a serious I fucked it off. High school SATs fucked it off. Didn't take a series Abacha, dad, I'm going to great adventure to go You know, applying to college, Like everybody. Are y'all doing it? Fucked it off. Community college. Two weeks. I'm out of here. The same for me. Sneaker store. I guess that's what it's going to be. Everything because you worked at. Where do you work? A Foot City sports. Okay. Yeah. Everything that was position in front of me that my mother tried her best Yeah, I fucked off swimming. Successful in it. Could have had scholarships, I fucked it off. You swim. I a phenomenal swimmer. Like at that level. Yes. I thought you had to be tall This is not even a joke. It really sounds like a big. What you gave. I gave you a chance. Yeah. You know, swimming. You swam? Yeah. That's. That's amazing. Yeah. What do you think it that made you think. Let's, let's let's go to take three. Let's go. Yeah. Let's go. You swam? Yes. When? When I think of swimming. Yeah. When you think of. I find myself thinking of an archetype, And this is There's been gatekeepers. Yeah. in swimming. And so you think of, you know, Michael Phelps, Yeah. I know, you know, like, we're, what do they call it when you share You practice. Yeah. But I think it's less I'm talking about Like I've been next to the swimming I can't really You can't. Yeah, yeah. So I so I thought about the stroke. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. My freestyle was amazing. Butterfly was phenomenal. Is that because you. Is that because you're pulling less What does that mean? What does that. What do we say? Pulling less. It's all about strength, Trevor. And drag. Right. Isn't it about minimizing drag? No, Trevor, it's Okay. Great form. And swimming provides great results. Now, granted, I fucked it off I was God, it was cheating I didn't want to do shit. The point that I'm making is that everything I was supposed to So when I finally cracked the code that I could do, I like. I fucked it off. Everything else So this here, I'm I'm going to not only take it and do it at the best of my ability, Oh, shit. Something else happened. Well, I'm not going to fuck Oh, shit. Another door. I ain't going to fuck that off because the adult that was giving me My mom was right. When did you realizing how right your mom was when you realized Oh, you. When you look up and going away to college, And you saying, what did you apply? What did you all apply to do that And now you realize you're you realize you're a dumb child. Do you feel like you got to the place your mother for the investment Because I know how hard it was. You know, for you losing her. You didn't feel like You don't think she was, like. Because she. Just as you were rising fools gold. I want to say this was like my Australia. I'm just trying to think of where this is this is basically like, Yeah. Because I was number 3 I was like Matthew McConaughey, And this is a big role. But this is like one of my like big Yeah. And your mum was sick So she didn't get to like came way after meaning So, you know, My mom, My mom My mom wasn't able to relax she was sick. So in the perfect picture of Yeah, the luxury item of comfort. Of sit down and don't worry. but at the same time there is a dual thought and dual I kind of navigate in a way where I'm not bothered or like ruffled easily And I truly do feel because Yeah, I got I got that And an amazing information processing moments. And that's good from your mom. On your on your dad's side. Do you think you were ever Do you think, you know, I know you had an interesting You connected as adults, where you even see this in your By the way, you can still see that where your dad has this, It's like, you know, it's it's like on the one On the other hand, he's proud of you. And and and like most parents, he's Did you forgive him Absolutely. Yeah. No, I think it's tough and it's hard But let's say here's There's no reservation Okay. okay. There's an understanding like, you can't go back and change Yeah, you can apologize and we can be But at this point, Like, I'm okay. Focus on being a grandpa. like, don't you don't worry about me And I'm telling them at face value, I love you because you're my dad. I appreciate you for tabling By the way, I got some of you in me. so my bad choices I'm not the guy. To your point. Earlier, the monk I get where I come from, I get where But what I do very well is process The reality is you're my father. I don't want to take that away. I don't want to change that. Yeah, because they gave me great examples try my best to avoid that shit, Look at the consequences of it. Yeah. You live, do your consequences, Your man will be a dope ass. Grandpa, tell your grandkids Go get some dope toys. Go put that time in over there because you want to get more going to get out of trying When I'm telling you, I'm not looking My joy is going to come from my kids My kids are going to go, my Like saying that we want to go back They know about your past. You get a new chance. Absolutely right a script. That's your next version of Kevin. Yeah, that's the next version. That's your son's child. My mom always said the reason grandparents is because now to be a different type of parent, understanding, compassion, all of It was a little rougher. They figured this shit out. My brothers pound for pound. The best thing that ever happened My brother has taken the role. If I have to go, he comes. I got to go on the road. My brother comes to the house, or promo or whatever. My brother's out there. The feeling of love is never a void. Yeah or never a missed opportunity. Now for kids, for kids Oh yeah when they're like oh come on My brother is the A man. Let me show you our fly a kite. Let me see. You never do a boomerang. You never seen these old movies Can they. You show rascals. You, you've, You don't. It's If you got a partner. Yeah. You got a partner in crime that really understands Well, I'm coming in. And dad is the cool dad that loves us The dope activities. But uncle or uncle I love the dad. Uncle, you know, uncle showed me You can't throw no strike. Let me see it though. I bet No, you not in my brother's. Throw I'll beat the shit out that bomb That's right. Because your uncle ain't shit right We got a great rapport. But the fun, the energy. Yeah, that energy comes from So what you build is ultimately a comfort of just Right? And that fall back. What I want your listeners should be a feeling that we all have after the, the, overtake our world We all have a little fear of Well let me build something think about the fall, when you fall That's a real thing. You will not get up. And we're in a business It means so many people chooses They say, you know what, fuck this. I'm gonna fold this chair up And that comes from a mindset. It comes from a lack of understanding what makes you feel strong. If you want real strength, and mental infrastructure possibly need to go out because now, fail or not, like you are investing into you, if I can say I own a pair of pants. What else are my fucking pants? Hey man, can't These are my pants. This is scaffolding. I need to do it. This is better. Call me the scaffolding, King. Okay? Because I'm gonna build Can call it what you want. I got it, and I'm gonna build it. Do not put all your eggs I dream is to not even have eggs. Okay, that's my dream. Okay, I may not get there, It's my dream before that. Before I say this. Before you say one more thing, I got to say this because you touched on it We talked about Let's like, of course, Bill Cosby, for a second. Did you then Bill Cosby in the end of a sentence, Okay, I can't, but Okay, I said it, I preference You cannot you cannot Yeah. You kind of go like, you know, I said, I want to Bill Cosby. Okay, you you have to You. Right. I'm about to say some deep shit, as fucked up shit, and there we go. You see that? Okay, okay. You ready? I went. I was in Montreal, and I've got old. Bill Cosby was performing at some, Bill Cosby was, Okay. Came out and sat on a stool. Bill Cosby started doing Bill Cosby America comedy. Bill Cosby comedy. Bill got it. And it was a sold out without any consistent Yeah, like, yeah like real dedication to the craft But at the old age of the feeling Yeah, yeah, of a crowd is Yeah. Right. And when I talked about I was like, man, to feel that at that age. I hope I still have the desire And do the thing that I fell in love I hope and pray that my love for the thing I do continues. Because the fear to your point Talk about the joke Is this work. Is that not work. All he started does we have rights. But if you can beat and just maintain Yeah. For the craft. it will be attached to the people that have invested in you And I looked at met crowd, a and I was like, it's that's their life. Their life was like always. His fans have still roll with them Until this moment they're still buying tickets Imagine as Trevor Hey don't don't put my name in the Go on imagine. Well I said as Kevin as mentioned I put a gap. Imagine myself imagine that's driving Imagine is Trevor We get to a place man. And you look out and you see some old Right. What better feeling? I'll tell you. I'll tell you I hear what you're saying because What you're saying is, in life, Wait. Not what? Wait a second. No. You said as white, No, you keep doing it. Just. This is. Okay. No, I don't agree with it. But because you're my guest, You know, I think this is a forum I personally would have just told that story I would just say who was a great comedian, and I. What you're doing right Don't be afraid. Those are just tummy bubbles. So. So I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what's great. Look, I'm And I mean this honestly, But I think what would be a greater is to have that feeling, regardless Okay. Do you know what I mean? Okay. That's honestly what I try and hope That thing on stage is beautiful. Yeah, it is a wonderful compliment to feel like that. And I do in many moments Well, so You've been very active about voicing this, you know me from the time Yeah, you. But I love the even about the daily And I remember I walked away when what an answer. Like I was like, what? Like, why are you like, it was just time. Yeah. Like I just, you know, okay, and I want to pursue something Yeah. And you were like, and I'm, I'm. So I'm trying to find a good level Now, you're it's very genuinely The I have and, with people before Let me ask you this question. I ask everybody on the podcast We meet Kevin Hart in this moment because it seems like and perpetually expanding. I'd love to know what now, as the as of doing everything that's VC, it's What? And do me a favor, Kevin. I ask you this as a friend don't ever release that hurts black people And I'm looking at you on camera I will not do that. I'm just saying that you right I don't have a I'm I'm telling you that I do not. Your people love you. Yes. I say this to you at face value. I mean this whole relationship. Yo, I'm just letting You remember You remember I had a dream. You remember? So this is the weirdest dream One of the strangest dreams, right? I had a dream. And this was before. I had a dream that Kevin Hart He was like, Trev, We gotta release a protein powder. And then I said to you, I said, but what are the ingredients? And you said, fuck good shit, man, who gives a shit We're going to do this. This is the weirdest dream Because, Kev, We don't even like, You always been wonderful to me. But we don't. It's not like we roll People might have this Yes, this was a strange dream And I remember why would I even dream about that No, maybe like a few months later, Vida Hustle. And I was like, oh my God, it's real. But then I tasted your tequila I called you about this I've been very honest with you I called you about No, no, no, it's like I'm more honest with you what I mean, right? With very few, like. Very true, And I remember I called you I thought this tequila It's actually delicious. And you said, well, Why would you say that? And I said, well, because I You're going And I was. You said, Trevor, you said, I'm you like I want. Have the best I don't have the best tequila. Yes. I don't have the best protein. So what now? What? What's Kevin Hart And other than therapy? Because I know What I will say, is finishing the sentences. there's incomplete sentences. Oh, beautiful. So I have to put periods on the sentences, the things that I'm building The pressure I feel I put on myself for me. I'm building it for the people and to the idea. So heartbeat in the level of success that I obtain Oh yeah, the big what now is like the creative platform, an opportunity Like I, I got my light. It's not going to get any brighter. The star is not going But the platform for or the studio of if I can be attached and the people that come to that door that's a fucking amazing way That's beautiful man. So right now I just want to get as close to open up that next door Yeah, but that those of tomorrow That's what I want. That's what now I like talking to you, man I love talking I always This is really good I want to say that this was like your way of giving me a therapy No, no, no. And I'm going to talk to you about it I think you just know I thank you. Gas bomb me. What is that term? Right. Did you gas bomb I thank you That's me. I'm a gas bomb. People I appreciate your transparency. I appreciate how you've always, I always tell people I go. Nobody wanted to when I was starting, everyone seemed, People go, oh, it's obvious. Nobody wanted to come on that show. Nobody wanted to be there if I people were like I don't know who he is, How I understand that fear. You were literally the first person I will open this random African Absolutely. And I'll ride with it. And I'm eternally grateful. I was like, Kevin Hart and I get it. I was like, if he can support Okay, well, that's a weird way. And, and that and I just want to say Okay. Well, I feel like Oh, man, this was great. Thank you. Fucking love you, man. Yo, can I just tell you We can cut it out was when I was pulling in Security guard. He's like, The guy who like, oh, you that dude, man, Jeff and Noah, Noah I'm like, hey, He's like, oh, what are you doing He's like, oh, you come and Kevin And he's like, I was like, no, no, no man was like, No, why would you? I was like, what do you know Oh, y'all come to me about that. Oh my God. Oh he he called it a true. I love you I love you, I love you. Do. What now with Trevor Noah is produced by Spotify Studios Productions, Fulwell 73 and Odyssey's The show is executive Ben Winston, Jenna Weiss Produced by Emmanuel Happiness, Jess Hackel, Music. Mixing and mastering by Hannah Brown. Thank you so much for listening. Join me next Thursday