Transcriber: Shuo Wen Let me tell you about Natalie. Natalie She giggled as she told me about what her heart racing, difficulty breathing. Maybe she wanted to run out of the Otherwise, she was very successful. She had friends galore, a good marriage, She said, My life's almost perfect. I'd been a therapist for about eight you know, this is a pretty I need to help her find out and what she can do about it. But one afternoon I got a call from Something's wrong. I got this weird the kids when I get back into town I thought about our last session, and She'd even said therapy was helping. But I heard Jeff's tone, and So I listened to it and I drove to the garage code that Jeff had given me. I see recently wash dishes and towels There is no sound. Just silence. I started calling Natalie's name, hoping being embarrassed that she'd had another and how I was getting in her house. But instead I found her lying in bed, an empty vodka bottle and several I called 911 with her, saying, Oh, When the paramedics rushed her out. I'd had no idea that Natalie was suicidal. I felt to blame and not to blame. What if What if I hadn't called Jeff back? I diagnosed her with panic disorder because that's what Natalie We all have secrets. And it's not always the secrets themselves that but the feelings about the secrets that Some of those feelings can be terror, fear, Unfortunately, many of us learned or we're just never taught that it's So we deny their existence on While on the inside there can be loneliness and hopelessness. Natalie had secrets, but it was her secret Can you imagine a world where talking Is it possible to create a culture where but actually can be seen as healthy self 16 years and hundreds of patients later, I was describing people like Natalie and what it might be like to live I just wrote about successful looking I didn't think it was particularly That post went viral because I had called Hidden depression. My email was swamped I have these feelings and no one knows. And the more I wrote and I began to understand how trapped people in this this cage of rigid emotional control with fear and shame, So I put two and two together a perfect seeming life can But there's an obvious problem. How can we identify that someone needs feel like they can't tell For example, let's say someone like maybe goes to the doctor or The professional would do what which would be to assess the presence of and Statistical Manual The DSM, as it's called, offers symptom checklists, some of which are then This is based on the medical which many believe Quit over emphasizes the It becomes the lens through which that And certain questions are then asked that Does the patient report sleep Has the patient lost pleasure in Does the patient have Foggy thinking? No, Does the patient have suicidal thinking? My life is far too full The exact process I'd used with Natalie. Your lens determines what you see. Combine the limitations of that the patient's fear of revealing We have a problem. In 1993, the founder of the American Association of was a well respected thought leader and and depression. He coined a meaning intolerable emotional And his research upended common because he found that psychic had more Pain is at the core of suicide, he said. Meaning that the answers to treating lie in the assignment of a diagnosis, but by an acknowledgement and working Two years later, Sidney Blatt, warned that when perfectionism is it can drastically change depression's and must not be assessed through but through understanding the perception and their world. But we the medical model of mental illness that the criteria, the official DSM criteria While suicide rates are skyrocketing I'd wager that it will not be every single one of us either know someone of someone. His life was going great. That person, your friend, your neighbor, Your pastor, your professor, And maybe even your child is Now, why? I term perfectly hidden oppression feel this shield of silence. They're not going And in fact, they are ashamed at any as depressed. So what can we do? How can for increased transparency? I think. I know that we must recognize And the thoughts that accompany them. Are, To be clear, I'm not saying I'm saying that thoughts about suicide are I cannot count the number of people over the years who reveal such feelings to me. Sometimes hesitatingly fearing that or take away their rights, sometimes because they begin to let go of a shame. That has literally seeped down into And sometimes with sadness because they Now there are people who have the intent and cannot tell you why they shouldn't. Those people tell someone like me because they want my help and they must be taken very seriously. But so many suicidal feelings. Are natural human normal responses to what has happened in your life. So why don't we treat it as normal? Why don't we talk about the feelings that Why don't we ask? Well, when do you feel What's it like to talk to me about it? Have you ever wondered what Questions that we would ask about a person was trying to understand But. These do not these are not questions We are going to go in the direction that which is working toward a strength this have to do with you? You're probably not a clinician How would you respond if someone told you own life? Sadly, the instinct is often. I can't believe you said that. You know, you have people who love you. And the quickest way to Is to blame someone for the or to suggest that no one that and caring would ever have that feeling. What if instead we could approach not Many more conversations will take place. Michael was an internationally prominent see me, and he was laughing because he said no one would ever He'd grown up in a family where especially painful ones. But his and Michael had never told his despite the tumultuous relationship Michael couldn't forgive As we talked about his childhood and current decisions he was trying He could see how he'd covered up and tried to cover it up with greater and greater achievement to reach some sort or blur the painful secrets he kept He told me one day, very painfully, that he also had feelings I told him those feelings were normal, given the extent of his pain and In our in our continuing work, he found that he could have compassion the shame that was not his to carry. He could grieve without pummeling and he could decide to live. I truly will never forget the day that laughing big smile on his face and said, I was on this crowded airplane journaling Writing about my childhood And when I felt a tear rolled down We all have secrets, but the the feelings of those secrets has never You and I. Can realize we can have an impact so that transparency is seen as strength. Thank you.