Do you like foot massages? If you do, you are at the right place because to give yourself an ultimate foot massage Hi everyone, I am Yasuko and it's time for In the past I have done 6 different videos concepts and techniques. This week I'm going to consolidate them massage from just one video. The first one I did was in 2011, which is doesn't get old because it's already super This is believed to be the first recording tomb of Ankhamor in 2330 B.C. This year is 2020 A.D. so that's 4350 years It is believed to be orally passed down before be older than that. This was found along with other medical procedures must have known the benefits of the foot massage Your feet have reflexes that correspond to those reflexes you are stimulating the corresponding So giving a thorough foot massage is like Ok I know it is not the same as getting a Before you get started with the actual massage, bath by soaking your feet in warm water in A foot bath not only relaxes your feet but You can enhance it by adding Epsom salt to and various medicinal benefits, apple cider flowers to make you feel like a princess. Let's warm up the foot. Put some lotion or lubricant of your choice. Grab the foot, put your fingers between the and three times in the other direction. Make a fist and glide down the sole. Rub all over the foot with your thumbs. I've noticed in these old videos I'm using If your thumbs get tired or if you have long index finger joints or use all four finger The big toe corresponds to head and brain. Right in the center is a point for Pituitary for hormone production. Press this point with your hooked thumb or Base of the big toe corresponds to neck, throat, Massage it by rolling it between your fingers All the other toes correspond to sinuses. Roll them between your fingers or press with The base of the second and third toes corresponds The base of the fourth and fifth toes corresponds Again, if you have long fingernails, use the The ball of foot area corresponds to the chest Let's start with the area under the big This is the heart area especially on the left left side of your body. The area under the four toes is the lungs Let's massage your lungs. Massage with your thumbs or go sideways or I believe the intention is very important The area under the pinky toe on the side of Pinch with your thumb and the side of your Below the ball of the foot where the color Let's massage your diaphragm. Since it's used for breathing let's inhale the lungs. Now I'm making happy diaphragm. The middle of the foot corresponds to the Right under the diaphragm is the liver area. Just like the diaphragm the liver goes all All the organs in your body is important but more than 500 functions. Give lots of thanks and send good energy to Liver is much bigger on the right side of side of your body. So you don't have to massage the entire in doing so. I'm sure your feet will be happier. Under the liver is stomach especially on the Like the heart the stomach is located on the Some reflexology charts don't show stomach Glide your thumbs downward to promote healthy Overlap your thumbs and glide down in the Below the liver is pancreas. Pancreas is an important organ because it and regulates the blood sugar level. Thank you pancreas. Right in the middle of the foot is kidney. Kidney removes the waste from the blood and Very important for detox process. Let's make the kidney happy. The bottom of the foot corresponds to the corresponds to the spine. The bottom half of the foot corresponds to That's where the digested food is absorbed The digestion happens in the clock-wise motion clock-wise direction in your lower abdomen. Massage this area with your thumbs or finger On one foot you are only massaging that side When you switch the foot, continue on with The kidney is located right in the middle The kidney produces urine which is carried The bladder area sits right above the heel The bladder then holds the urine until you Let's make the urinary tract happy and the Lastly the inside edge of the foot corresponds Use the base of the thumb to circle down the Imagine you're releasing every single vertebrae Then press with your thumb as you pull the Or press with overlapped thumbs. Make sure you massage the other foot so the Trust me your body parts have feelings and The top half of the top of foot corresponds Let's start with the big toe. The inner corner of the big toe corresponds And the outer edge of the big toe corresponds Squeeze this area with your thumb and the Or cup it from underneath and just massage Divide the big toe into three sections. The first area that's closest to the big And the middle section is the lower jaw and And the bottom section is the neck and throat. Some charts show the other toes correspond Massage your head, face, sinus, and neck one The bottom of the toes are the top of the Massage your top of the shoulder by walking I'm holding the bottom of the foot to stabilize joint. It looks like a worm. This is called thumb walk. The area below the pinky corresponds to shoulder Massage your shoulder and arm by squeezing thumb. This area corresponds to chest and breast Let's massage your upper back, chest and When you do this rock your torso so you're Or to be more specific, use your thumbs. Follow your thumbs and trench the valley between The area below the big toe corresponds thymus Thymus gland is very important for the immune So massage this area to strengthen the immune The bottom half of top of the foot corresponds Think of the midline as waist line. Top half is upper body and bottom half is You can do these by sitting on the floor or The area between the midline and the ankle Massage this area with the flat part of your Or to be more specific alternate your thumbs Whenever you use your thumbs, move your entire circling the straight thumbs because your and will not last for a long time. Let's move to the outer side. The area below the ankle bone corresponds Massage this area with your thumb by cupping Again, move the entire hand to move your thumb Right under the ankle bones correspond to Under the outer ankle bone is outer hip joint joint. Anchor with your thumbs on the Achilles and the ankle bones. Between the ankle bone and the heel on the ovary for women and testicle for men. Between the ankle bone and the heel on the men. So the outside is the production center where sperms and inside is the container where uterus Massage these areas with the side of the index The top of the ankle corresponds to the lymphatic in the reproductive organ: fallopian tube Loosen up this area by circling the side of the center to the sides. The heel corresponds to the tail bone or coccyx. Pinch with your thumb and index finger or Both sides of the Achilles is the sciatic Glide up next to the Achilles to the calf Do these on the other foot. Here's a bonus. I did this in the foot massage for bunions. It's not really a Reflexology but it feels So here we go. Spread apart each toe and hold for count of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. After all four spaces are done, spread each Lift one up as you push one down for a count Do it for all the toes. Then grab the outer two toes and spread apart Then spread the big toe and pinky apart for Click the link to see the rest of the foot So these were the ways to give yourself a techniques but there are more to it. I hope your feet are very happy and so are the reflexes. If you have a partner who loves a foot massage, partner to learn or improve their foot massaging so you can enjoy giving and/or receiving the You can download a free massage guide from Thanks for watching. I'll see you back next week. Make it a great week. Feel free to comment below. And please don't forget to subscribe. Click on the bell so you will be notified