- Hey! I'm Paula Dean, and today I'm pulling out because even a down home girl like me loves a fancy party from time to time. And fancy doesn't mean fussy. So first I'm gonna give you the tip to no-muss, no-fuss mosaic chicken terrine that is worth the time that Next, I'll show you my Brie en croute that really makes your table look gorgeous and takes no time at all. And when we get that going, there's my simple diver scallops, seared in a secret sauce that'll have everybody thinking So pick out some pretty flowers and get out Granny's linens, because entertaining with style has never been so easy. I started cooking when I was I'm very lucky because of wonderful Southern cooks, and at 42 years old, I was faced with having to So I turned to my first love, which is cooking. And so I started cooking for a living. I think food is such a big part of family, and I hope that y'all can watch me and learn to have fun with yours, while building wonderful memories around the food that you're preparing. Hi, today's show is all about fancy food, but don't be put off by the word fancy because you know me. This is gonna be the simplest And the center point of today's meal is a Brie en croute. It's a wonderful soft cheese and when you cut it the cheese, and the brown sugar, and the nuts just ooze out. And believe it or not, I found a group of nuns out in the country that say they have the perfect So today I'm gonna put and go get that cheese. So y'all come with me. Sprout Creek Farm is a special place, run by very special people. Sister Karen and her team have created an organic farm using it to teach young people how to appreciate nature and create wonderful food, including their own soft cheese made in the French manner. I just love visiting, but for the great spirit the farm creates. - Paula, I'd like to introduce - [Paula] Hey, how are you all? Lisa and Brandon make these just as they've done Brandon, what are you doing? - After the cheese is made, you unmold and salt it, and it gets put in front of a fan, because the salt brings the the fan dries it off. And then it goes into the ripening room. - [Paula] Well tell me, what - Well the flavor of the It's very important. What you put into your cows will depend what you're going Here at Sprout Creek Farm, what we try to do is feed What they've found is actually lowers the bad cholesterol, so we're very proud to say to people, &quot;You can eat our cheese.&quot; (laughs) One of the other things is the kind of cow you have. We have a lot of Jerseys and Guernsey cows which give extremely rich milk. One of the reasons our cheeses are so good is very high, rich fat content. Makes our cheeses very creamy, almost buttery flavored. - What are the mistakes in storing their cheese, Lisa? - These cheeses here are aged cheeses, which means that they don't necessarily have to be refrigerated. If you're planning on buying a cheese and taking it home and what you might want to do is under a nice glass, wipe off any moisture that forms, and what you'll get is a nice When it's refrigerated, it kind of inhibits some of Well, what cheese are you to substitute my Brie for? - The Barat. This is our smallest cheese, compared to the other two that we have. - Well I have to say that - Well follow me. I'll show - Sister Karen, are you sure this cheese - Why don't you try it? - It's heavenly! - Oh, ho ho ho. - I think I like it better than Brie. Thank you very much, Sister Karen, for bringing me in here and It's truly delicious. - You're welcome. - So in a minute, I'm gonna show you what we're gonna do with these cheeses. But first we're gonna start on a dish that's gonna make you look like you've worked very, very hard. It's called mosaic chicken terrine. We're gonna start by And I'm using a lemon pepper on it. A nice plump fat breast. And we're just gonna take 'em and wash 'em into two beaten eggs. And then we're gonna dip And the egg will help that This is a wonderful, wonderful dish that is great for birthday All the dishes that I'm that I've worked a little And we're actually gonna You can actually go ahead and cook it and prepare it the day before, because it really has to so that it can become a solid mass. We're gonna start by into the bottom of our loaf pan. You can see that I've lined my loaf pan with parchment paper. This will prevent our dish And also it'll give us easy, Now, on the next layer, you can do whatever I'm using a mortadella and a salami. Now our next step to our terrine, we're gonna take just some not a marinated artichoke, put it in our egg, and run it through our And we're just gonna kind And these are nice and soft, so they'll spread out. And now, I'm going to the garden, because I'm gonna put as So I'll be right back. I just love the smell of fresh basil. Oh, it's heavenly. So we're just gonna take these leaves, we're gonna cover the top. And this is so pretty when and you see the different And then we start all over again with a layer of chicken. We're gonna press that down. Nice and firm. And when we get ready to bake this, I'm gonna show you another trick, the trick that really weights it down. My friend Martha Nesbitt Martha's such a great cook, and I really trust her palate. I think we have very similar taste, and we both like to keep things simple. So there it is. Just very simple. We gonna finish it off with and actually when we take this this is gonna be the bottom, because it'll be inverted onto our tray. So now we're to the part that we're gonna weight it down. We're gonna take just a standard brick, and we're gonna wrap it in tin foil. Even though I've washed the brick, I don't know where it's been. So I want to make sure it's clean and not carrying any germs. And we're gonna take another and cover top of our terrine. And then just simply lay and put our weight on it, and we're gonna bake We're gonna fill it with a little water so that the heat won't be too harsh on our terrine as it bakes. So we're gonna put this in the oven now, we're gonna bake it for about two hours, then we're gonna take it out and we're gonna let it And then we're gonna put and we're ready for a party. This one I've had in the Actually I'm gonna need two to feed the size group that I'm having. So I'm gonna take that and as you can see, We're just gonna invert See how nice and easy that comes out? Now I wanna show you how It also looks like I've when I really haven't. I'm gonna take a tomato, and make a tomato rose very quickly. Take the skin, and go and hopefully I won't interrupt this by it breaking on me. You can see I've got a long, thin skin. I'm gonna start by taking this end, turning it inside out, and that's gonna be my bud of my rose. I'm just gonna wrap that. And then I'm gonna take my basil, and put it right in the center, and then put my tomato rose right on top. And see how simple? Y'all stick around, because I really, really am praying that Sister Karen's not gonna let me down. I so hope And if you do. Be sure to click like, notification bell so And we'll be Well here's the cheese that the nuns have promised It's a Barat cheese, where I would use a Brie. So let's open this up So I can't wait to try this. We're gonna start first This is just an ordinary puff pastry that you'll find in the Don't confuse this with phyllo. This is a puff pastry. So we're gonna dust our rolling pin with a little flour. Because we don't want this to stick. And inch out the size of our That looks perfect. I've got a skillet heating here, and I'm gonna saute off some walnuts, just long enough to release the oils, which is gonna help give us our flavor that we're looking for. I can already begin to smell You wanna make sure they don't burn. You could use pecans in this dish, or almonds as far as that goes. I just love walnuts, though. And, well, I'm a pecan girl too since I come from a pecan state. Now we're gonna start by taking the top of the as you would the Brie. Now some people don't bother but for some reason I just like the idea of getting down in there. And we're just gonna This is gonna look like And you can see right Pile it up with those walnuts, and we're just gonna And then I'm gonna take about an eighth of a teaspoon of cinnamon, and just sprinkle it like that. I'm going to get everything And if you need to, see you can just stretch And if you find when we go and wrap him up, if we haven't got it big enough, that's easy to solve, too. We'll just roll it out a little bit more. So we're gonna take an and snip him off about like that. You know, I don't think that you can mess this dish up. You can see it's so very simple. We really hadn't had to cook anything except our walnuts. So we're gonna bring this up, like so, working with the long points. And we're gonna kinda just like this, kinda pressing together. And then we're gonna take our cord. Just tie him up, just like that. Look at this pretty little bundle that we're gonna have here. These recipes have been using your cheese, your nice soft cheeses, and your Brie. We want our little bundle so we're just gonna simply beat up an egg, and take our little pastry brush, and we're just gonna brush him, like this. Some people like the but I prefer the yellow too. The yellow, I've just found it gives it a pretty soft yellow color. I'll tell you this, girls, men just love this dish. Hot bread and cheese. Paint it until we get all the pastry This is kinda like us We're just gonna transfer and throw him into the oven You don't need to butter your pan because there's so much So he goes in just like that. Now this is my sweet little Look at that. You can see the brown sugar and the nuts and the butter And now for the real test. I'm gonna find out if that has lied to me. (pastry crumbles) Praise the Lord! She didn't lie to me. It's much more yellow than our Brie. It's heavenly. Buttery, it's sweet, and tart all at the same time. Thank you, Sister Karen. Yum. When we come back to finish I'm gonna be diving for scallops. I hope and I want to hear from you. Tell me what recipes or videos make by just leaving a short Now, let's Our final dish that I'm preparing today is called seared diver scallops. And when you think of scallops, you just think fancy, kinda, don't you? I don't know. Maybe it's because they're But I promise you, you're gonna have folks swarming all over your table for this one. And again, it's very, very simple. I'm starting by cutting And you don't have to cut it up, but I'm giving it just a little head start in the Cuisinart. And we're gonna take three tablespoons of whole grain mustard. We're gonna pulsate this (Cuisinart whirs) So we're just gonna take our scallops, mm, that smells good, and we're just gonna pat until we have them all done. And I would probably figure And there again, that depends Now we've got a nice count today. These are nice and fat and plump. And I wouldn't use a bay scallop for this because they're tiny. They're about the size of a marble, and it would take you forever to do those. I just love the sea scallops And I've got my pan searing over here. You can see it's smoking. And I'm gonna pour just so hopefully they won't stick. And we don't have to cook them. We just wanna kind of Because these are gonna Don't just buy scallops from anybody. You'll wanna sure they're good and fresh. You get them from a Now I would recommend that you prepare this early in the day. Do your coating, put them on a piece of wax paper, and keep them in the refrigerator until your ready to cook them. And that way, it would give the coating So that's another thing about this dish when because you've got so much to do. So any time that you can save I'm all for that. This menu that I'm doing today is really meant to just impress people. Make them think that we Now we're just gonna sear them, maybe just for a minute on each side. You can see I've already And these are done. Look how delicious those look. And the smell so wonderful. You know, scallops are so unique in their texture and their It's like no other seafood. Doesn't taste a thing like shrimp, doesn't taste a thing like fish. I think I'd like a little paprika on mine, just to help give it a nice brown color. So I'm gonna go back and sprinkle these, so when they come out of the oven, they'll be a pretty chestnut brown. All right, these are ready. So I'm gonna cut off my pan and go ahead and transfer these over. I'm taking some of the coating and I'm just gonna add So all we have to do now and let them finish cooking. And remember, with all your seafood, you don't want to overcook. So this will take just only a few minutes. These should be ready now. Oh and they are. They look just great. You can see what the And you can see the bacon They look and smell so, so good. So that completes our scallop dish. And when we come back, I'm gonna share a few tips with you that'll make your life a lot easier. I so hope And if you do. Be sure to click like, notification bell so And we'll be So I'd like to share a few If you have any puff pastry left over, you can take your cookie cutters and cut them into delicate little shapes and garnish your platters with them. My table and the food on it look so beautiful today. It looks like I've gone but I really hadn't. I started here with a cheese tray with a little apple on it, which is absolutely no problem. Just garnish it and you're ready to go. And the Brie en croute, you can wrap your Brie, in the puff pastry, put it in the refrigerator And the chicken terrine is such a beauty, because it is actually So all you have to do is You can coat your scallops and put them in the until you fry them at the last minute. The party eye of round was cooked this morning, and it's to be served at room temperature. And I've made a wonderful pot of creamed fresh mashed with your beef or your scallops, even your chicken. So all of these dishes are Which is gonna mean that I'm (claps hands) So until next time, America, best dishes from my table to yours. Hey, y'all, it's Paula Deen. Now, if you enjoyed this video, and click the subscribe button and bell to be alerted Love and Best Dishes Y'all.