Hi everyone and welcome to Tasting it's a medieval spiced wine. that they're constantly imbibing on Game It is one of the easiest recipes i've it is one of the hardest recipes i've grinding up spices, and waiting a day Hardest because getting the spices... not during quarantine. So today I'll teach home, and give you a few cheats just in globe for certain spices, because a sommelier, wine should not be a source So let us make like Cersei Lannister and this time on Tasting History. Now there are dozens of recipes for this standby recipe book from recipe to use the term hippocras, recipes in The Form of Cury are in Middle English, but this one and only this one is in a So i'm actually going to put the alongside the modern translation so where we get some of the words, more than than you might think. To Make Hippocras: three ounces of and three ounces of ginger, spikenard of the size of a denier (a small french galangal, cloves, long pepper, nutmeg, one-tenth ounce grains of paradise, and etc. You could never get away with just recipe, but this recipe gives us ingredients recipe, but what it doesn't give us these ingredients, ingredient: scoured several the method uh to make the drink, and how and what kind of wine to use. Also some offer more easy to find spices so i'll as alternatives to things like spikenard, So before we get started make sure to contemplate how many times I had to because I kept saying hippogriff when I So first the wine. Good news you can because dry, you. little bit harder. It wasn't until 1660 in 1660), a 1660 recipe where he specifies three ounces of cinnamon which is the in our recipe so I figure that's that's Now a gallon of wine back then was a makes sense I'm not going to make a adjust the amounts to make quite a Now other than using three ounces of different from the one that we're using First it includes cream which is and second it has three pounds of sugar, sugar. recipes actually do include a bit of but I want to stick to The Form of Cury. much as I love sweet things I will not Now when it comes to the method they the wine, some don't, methods of adding spices, and removing spices using three different pots, and like throw the spices in wait a day and That's the one that we're going to use, will need or white wine, one ounce or 28 grams of one ounce or 28 grams of fresh ginger, a Now I had never heard of spikenard, nard which was clean Jesus's feet when they were at kind of cool, but I didn't know and it's so interesting because like it. It's sweet and clean at the same time. It of the scent of the desert after it in the desert after it rains, I grew up One teaspoon of galangal, one teaspoon of They could have been closed like we used flower used throughout history to mean knows. use cloves, regular old cloves. another one that you might not know. pine cone to me, Like regular black pepper,m but sweeter quite a bit hotter, so very interesting nutmeg, cardamom, Now this is the one that took forever to get here. I guess you can sometimes find it in some stores, had to order it from a farm in When I tasted it, and I kernel, or sweet peppery flavor mixed with more aromatic than regular pepper, and a wave of heat that was like I had just of black pepper, it was very interesting. So like I said some of those spices are if you're in a hurry to get your croissant), more more nutmeg, black pepper, powdered those are mentioned in later recipes, up you can use sugar which was So the first thing to do is pour your then break up your cinnamon sticks, and Then grind up the rest of your spices, super super fine so just do your best, technically an herb, and not a spice but Now while spices are not as expensive as still kind of expensive, especially some So I wanted to thank several of my for helping me afford such luxurious I doff my cap to you all, If I only had if I only had a cap. So once you've start adding them directly into the wine and then we wait. About a day, even two. you can go ahead and give them a give it leave it in the pitcher, and let the and while we wait it is the perfect at why Europe fell in love with &quot;He drynketh ypocras, claree, and of spices hoote t'encressen his corage.&quot; spiced wines to increase his desire, One of the first recipes we have for Coquinaria two recipes in the collection honey wine for travelers. piment crops up modern Spain, wrote an Arthurian legend about the during which Sir Percival drinks a cup For some reason the term piment falls century probably due to the fact that the spices hippocraticum, or your friendly neighborhood apothecary. the 5th century BC physician probably asking to the wine? Why not just drink the wine, the first we have to trot out those out here you crazy guys! Phlegm. medieval medicine was all about your humors, and keeping them in balance more detail in another video on the I'll link in the description, Humors was through food, degrees of hot, cold, the theory was that if you say took a and added hot dry spices in the correct then it would become the perfect was often served at the end of feasts to A second theory suggests that the spices wine that was maybe Buck Chuck that was about to go bad, good to go, but frankly Middle Ages you could probably afford so I don't know about that one. Then theory of why people do anything to it tastes good. You know pretty simple, was all the rage throughout Europe in but in the 1430s hippocras fell in bad dude. He was the Baron Gilles de Rais, of Joan of Arc during the Hundred Years also arguably history's first recorded into details confession plied hundreds of young children dismembered them. name got but just as people kept drinking didn't really stop people from drinking Hippocras stayed popular through the up until the 18th century, really everyone. for the very, very wealthy, and then been for someone you also had sweetened with honey, sound familiar because with fruit today, has its own fascinating history episode. But while hippocras lost favor in emerged and took up the torch In England mulled wine and wassail punch are weihnachtsmarkt in Germany serves cute little ceramic boots, which is still made with some of the century almost every European country, and many has some sort of spiced wine as part of and i'd like to think that most people hippocratic humors, of Hippocrates that hippocratic sleeve. should be ready to strain, conical look of the manicum you can get either a jelly bag or one of This is meant for making cold brew they big enough a link in the description to where you probably just use a regular old have you using the dregs because again if you want you can go ahead and use sauces, or even soap! Hm, will mention that this was so i'm going to use that as an excuse three glasses. One warmed on the stove, that i've chilled like sangria. hippocras: one hot, gonna start with the hot one, because it's July July. Oh my goodness, okay so if if what issues Oh my gosh i can feel my pupils dilating Oh that is very Christmassy, from Germany if you've ever had that, definitely hot. Now let's try the room smells completely different, much less your nostrils like the other one did they're already clear, I don't know. Okay if you want something that will the 14th century in a What an interesting flavor this is. there is spice to it, in the back of my getting more, and more it's I think it's long pepper. to this to this drink, but then it's sweet too because I ended I don't think it needs sugar, I don't I just love it as is. That flavors that i've never tried before. I mean I kind of didn't figure that I would, but I'm not i'm not getting that which is cool. hippocras. Again, totally different. The cinnamon pops out in this one, such it's funny because the hot one really The room temperature one had that but wasn't overwhelming. This one very little, but the flavor is really nice. This one actually reminds one one by the fire, and get drunk on hippocras. Now I have and so i'm going to turn off the camera but I wanted to thank you for sticking on Tasting History.