What's up everybody? This is Charlie from you deal with people in your life who are from anyone, from a friend, to a co-worker, One simple caveat that I'll give you. This people who have leverage over your life, for one of the steps in several of the steps, remove that person from your life; difficult strategies for dealing with conflicts when you can use in many, many situations. That said, this is an interview with Robert Downey Jr. and in this interview, the interviewer, out at left field, starts asking him questions about his drug history, his relationship with his directed to get a rise out of him. So, I want to start where the interview is still the first 15 seconds. And you see that look on his face? We often is coming. There is a trap about to be sprung. aggressiveness on us. Robert just kind of aggressive aggressive, and this really is What I'll say here is look at the eye contact at this guy, while he can hardly hold his that you can take, is that when someone is they do not have the guts to be outright aggressive. them in the eye with this steady gaze, you times, backtrack on what is said. Not the Hold strong, steady eye contact. Let that without saying a word. And you see that? That's just like a piercing he knows what's going on. So, interestingly enough, and this is actually answering the question at pretty much face do when you sense that someone is being passive Many times, that eye contact will deter them. just might have misinterpreted. So rather than jump down someone's throat give them, for one try, the benefit of the doing at face value. Notice this here. This is what I call a warning going down this line. He's explained to him this question, the guy persists. So right warning shot. And then, again, still back to good-natured... This is important. Oftentimes, when people to box you in with some sort of question to either way. What Robert Downey Jr. is doing is reframing it in terms that he can come right? He doesn't want to say Liberal this, a path he wants to go down. So he takes the time to reframe the question know what I meant. I could guess at what I So he's basically discounted this question now, this continues. Actually, let's let it ride And, if you want, this is just a study in guy knows exactly what he's doing. Watch the sitting far back in his chair, he's just like fidgeting So, clearly, he's getting upset. He sees, given him the benefit of the doubt. He's even so what does he do next? He's going to call Again, this is the first time that Robert He is saying in a very clear way, &quot;You're I know what's up. Get through this.&quot; And stuttering and staring, the guy continues Robert Downey Jr. is breathing very, very mode, which is common when somebody comes This is clearly a pointed attack. He is trying going on. So you see, he starts to breathe might freak out here, but, notably, he doesn't. And this is the most overt call-out. This is step given them the eye contact, you said you know the doubt. You've done the warning shot. You've is. He, very clearly, in plain English, says, if you've given the person so many subtle &quot;What are you doing?&quot; is a perfectly fine See what the guy says. And that's it. Walk away. This is the big tricky to do when you're with your boss or in your life who are going to behave like any sort of passive aggressive attack on you, look like an attack on the outside. This person, trying to get a rise out of you. Do not freak the situation once you've called it out. And friendly, good-natured way. He doesn't walk the way to handle this situation. And then this guy looks at him like, &quot;What has been helpful. The steps, quick recap are: hold eye contact. Second, maintain the benefit maybe you're interpreting it the wrong way. like, &quot;I don't know why we're talking about call it out. You need to say, &quot;What are we then, if they don't stop, remove yourself So, that's a little way to deal with passive I hope that has been helpful. If it has, please videos like these, and of course, if you want we always make this offer at the end of our Breakdown. Robert Downey happens to be included sell, but you can get this bonus piece right Just click the link that I will have here I hope this has been helpful and see you soon