Nowadays pixel art is a popular art style chosen established as a response to the hardware limits late 2000s was partially driven by nostalgia no longer able to compete with major players in with pixel art look like from the perspective of must be considered? I will give you answers currently working on and my previous game. First possible resolution and aspect ratios that Hardware survey is a good starting point to get gamers these days. It's crucial for 2D games to I will explain why in a moment. 1080p monitors are common. Both resolutions have a 16x9 aspect but for me I think it's a good choice as the screenshot from Pumpkinman you can see individual so each pixel in this scene takes more than one your devic's resolution. This video is 1080p, so and if you are watching on full screen that's pixel took exactly a single pixel on the screen. call the game's native resolution. I also came the game I'm working on it's 640 by 326 pixels native resolution to bigger ones, it can only be Otherwise the game will have a pixels of different to choose the correct aspect ratio early on. For of possible bigger resolutions - I can scale the when looking at Steam survey we can see, that by this list. First let's look at this one. It's matches one from our list so it's possible to to 1080P and center it. We are left with those pattern you will see a lot in the 2d games. Simply resolutions, in the way that the whole screen is creating this content. Where most of the players, it. This is super obvious when you think about where all available space can be filled by by making a field of view larger. &lt;ore problematic is used in laptops. Here, so-called letter box scene. Which for me is quite annoying. Here two to change the scaling option, to one that allows you wouldn't even notice that, without looking native resolution chosen, for the game and simply this additional content will be cropped out and blank space. It won't work for each resolution, require a lot of additional content. Also, it check each scene in different aspect ratios, to content. For some games it also can be just not an unfair advantage simply because they see more I'm considering but haven't implemented yet. But implementing letter box scaling? The easiest in memory with the size of the game's native into this texture and only when the whole scene center of the screen, with the biggest possible evenly as each of these resolutions is a product only once it's possible to avoid some graphical careful enough. It also has this nice feature one to one to a number of pixels on the screen. is always 24 pixels. There is one more trick for my game is 640x 320 pixels the texture each pixel is 2x2 already at render time. This in native resolution, but unlocks having sub this in the graphical editor. If we look at this it ends-up all messed up. There are not enough same sprite was first scaled by two and only then that some of the pixel art purists are bothered by in the day. But for me it's simply better to have an effect you want to overuse. Here is an example they are square are freely rotating. Another on Pumpkinman is to implement everything I was as early as possible, together with a window the game in fixed 720p when I got to implement rendering code, as it was based on too many wrong the start makes testing each new rendering feature in this whole story namely text rendering and for text rendering use something called sprite characters which can be used in the text. Using is super fast and works the same way as rendering the fully pixel art look, so fonts are also pixel the rendering code. Simply render the scene, If the font was pixelated to begin with, it would this won't work for non pixel art fonts as they being strict about this limits the amount of problematic for story driven games. For my game The solution here is to render all text and This also has the advantage that I have all so having more resolution to draw dev tool One thing to consider is that the bigger the will appear on it. This is exactly how it works in I want to do better. There are two ways to combat very high resolution and scale it down as needed. felt it can result in weird artifacts. But I may a bit more memory-hungry but safer. I simply have the moment is decided based on the current screen functional. That's all for today's video. Thanks comment if you have any questions. Have a nice day