The alphabet is fine. But it could be so much better. It hasn't really changed for, what? Half But English has changed a lot in that time. These 26 letters were settled to spell out now. For example, there is no letter for the most and our most common word could be spelled The alphabet is overdue for an update. So let's do it. In this video, we're going to trawl through that English could, in my opinion, steal. that we actually say. I've also picked out the letters I think some old letters that I think we should resurrect. And I've actually paid someone to help us That you're going to want to see. Stick around for a big musical finish as we You know this old building used to be a steel Because today, we're creating something. We're making a new English alphabet, fit easier, reading faster and writing more efficient. More efficient, you say? Yes. English is full of waste. Do you know the It's "the". And just look at it. You two letters to make the TH sound at the start The fact is, we don't. There is an alternative, be a two-letter word spelt like that. That letter at the start is called thorn. I'll run through it fast. It existed in when the printing press came around, because presses. I've mentioned before how they to it, and that's why we have signs saying "ye", it's "the". Anyway, all that ultimately led to the disappearance with TH. But here we are, in a different millennium on movable type, and now it's time to bring new inductee into the English alphabet, making SIDE NOTE: English also had another letter with thorn to make the TH sound called eth, used in Icelandic, for the "th" sound, The problem with eth is its capital looks languages, but for a /dj/ sound. Too confusing. thorn alone. So we've got rid of this unnecessary pair. Lots of languages have the /sh/ sound, but to spell it out. They're using one. So maybe we should steal I put a call out on the socials for suggestions of people said we should take this character sound. In fact Japanese has another alternative They do both look awesome, but that's "shi" so might I recommend as an alternative something round my way. It's this. It's a letter called "sheh" and it does a shhh. So I'm pilfering that for our alphabet. Welcome our shiny new letter, sheh. You know, Turkish also has another letter is called a cedilla, by the way, and started Turkish also has this letter, which in theory makes the same sound as this pair. It makes The problem here though is that this exact languages. It's in French and in Portuguese, different sound, more akin to an S sound. But I like this idea of finding a single letter let me suggest an alternative. The cyrillic alphabet, used for languages course - Russian has this letter. It's called variously chyeh, che, cha or guessed, it represents the /ch/ sound like bonus of representing the slightly tougher I like it. It's going in. Great choice guys. I've done a very good job of adding to the we can take away? Well, I can tell you the answer is: yes. And I mean, what is the point of Q? Name one job by K or even C. The only time it comes into with a U. But what sort of self-respecting Nope - I'm getting rid of it. Do us a favour, But that does leave us with the problem of Well, you know, we could just put a K there. But I'm not happy with still needing the I'm sensing another opportunity for efficiency. makes that /kw/ sound. Well, actually, I've looked around and you don't know all the alphabets in the world, found this in the neo-Tifiniagh berber alphabet. two characters, isn't. Quite the quandary, I thought. But then it letter. So that's what I set about doing. I used a graphic designer who could come up with the job. And after sending off what must have seemed who was willing to take on the challenge. She asked me to give her a couple of days, Oh, see that? That's my new shiny 3D logo. I made that. With the help of this video's Skillshare is the place to learn how to up been using it to learn how to make 3D animations. No goal is too small with Skillshare, even logo. Skillshare also has online courses on how start a newsletter, like I do. There will I found this great course on there by YouTuber good habits that last. He has great advice and hopefully happier, by getting into a good There are hundreds of career-focused courses in photography, film and other creative stuff If you want to check it them out, the first below this video will get a 1 month free trial There's nothing to lose, only to gain. So I'm getting into this idea of purloining forward yet another one. And it's one that, see all the time. It is this fat fellow. That most German of means S-Z, because that's what the shape these days it more often than not serves as You can write the German word for street, English has loads of words that contain a efficiency. So let's do it. Welcome aboard, the Eszett. It's in the You know what? I've got another one. But So you know this letter? Of course you do, on the Spanish flag, so associated with the Spanish word for Spain. And... I want it. This letter, called enye, has a fascinating started out life as an N? Spanish used to two Ns, and to save space on expensive bits of popping the second N on top of the first. Nowadays you can find it in lots of other it in English. The /ny/ sound that it represents pops up bunion. Don't those words all look better... I'm going to pretend you said "yes". Welcome enye to the new English alphabet. Okay, I admit that doesn't save any space Moving on! So earlier we fixed the most common word in common sound in English is? Uh. No, that's it. It's uh. We use it all things like borough, soldier, border (in my It pops up in the middle of words too. And English you speak. It even appears in the Canada. It even occasionally pops up in the word "the". I'm getting at? That uh is the most common sound in English, if we can't be bothered to enunciate them... But I know where to look for one. There's and it appears in the international phonetic the sounds of words, whatever the language This upside down E is just what we need to Welcome into the fold, sexy little schwa! And while we're on the IPA. The international phonetic alphabet, let's common English sound that I think deserves I'm talking about about ng. It's an essential for every gerund, we need it for our unusual unique English present tense. /Ng/ is so important and I think it deserves for the job. It's this. Itt's called "eng" this letter to English a few hundred years reckon we are now. Eng is joining our new alphabet too. Right, I've kept you waiting long enough. letter. So our friend from the internet came back on the idea that this letter essentially makes /kw/. So here's concept number one. See how it's can you imagine trying to write that. It also So let's see if we do any better with concept Okay. I showed this to a few people and, honestly, "Nice white supremacist logo, Rob" I honestly didn't see that myself at first, going on in there. But I reckon with a bit of tweaking I've brand... new... letter: Say hello to kwak! What do you think? Comments below please. Now, I wonder Do we need to do anything about this? I mean, it's not great is it. Double-U. used to be the same letter - crammed together, web addresses out loud so tedious. Double-U, double-U, double-U. Can we do better? Well we could bring back guy called wynn. We could turn every web address But there's an obvious problem here. It So what about other languages? Well Polish it's clearly confusing too. It's often the Polish currency is called the Zloty when What's more this letter is called "ew" pronounce L. Ew Yeah, it's exactly right that. How do you speww it? Ew. I'm right. Let's just leave W as it is. It's not want to have to pay another graphic designer W stays. What else... Well, I suppose we could consider popping be the first time. It's appeared there a it anyway, and I'd hate for my new alphabet In which case it's been an absolute pleasure... What is that? That sz sound. S isn't the right letter for that. Let's have one more: zhett from Czech should And with that there's only one thing left [sings] There's 34 letters, I think they're A, B, C, Chyeh, D, E, Schwa, F, G, H, I, J, Sheh, T, Thorn, U, V, W, X, Y and Z and Zhett. Now you know your new ABC. It's sort of easy, as you see. Thanks. [stops singing] A quick thank you also to those who made this Shout out to my chum Martyn Williams for his Studios and Skillshare! If you enjoyed this, below and check out one of these videos next.