These dogs go to the most dangerous They're the same ones our soldiers go to. That dog is your patrol buddy. You're with them 12 hours a day. I absolutely could trust Szultan 100%. They have to perform at a level Leaving the military was really hard for me, and I didn't think I'd see him again. Military working dogs are owned They train to go into combat zones. They're trained around loud noises. Good boy. They train to bite. Military service members train to protect our country. And the dogs are no different. They've been through things together That dog is your patrol buddy. You're It's super important to mesh with your dog If you miss a little head turn or a little tail wag, that could be somebody's life. Good boy. Hold him! Hold him, buddy. Hold him. I was Szultan's first handler. He has his own unique personality. He was very temperamental. A ridiculous amount of work went into Szultan. He wanted to do things his way. He also had the strongest bite. He crushed my steel-toe boot. And I was like, &quot;All right, buddy. He definitely left a lot of bruises on a lot of people. I did make a deal with Szultan. I was like, &quot;Hey, look, man. I know you're grumpy. I need you to not bite me, please. I'll respect you, you respect me, and we will figure this out together.&quot; After we did that, we started meshing. I was super proud of him. I absolutely could trust Szultan 100%. After years of working with these dogs, it definitely did a lot of wear and tear on my body. I started having issues with my hands. I kept dropping the leash. So I went to the doctor, and I had two spine surgeries that put me out of commission. So I got medically retired. Leaving Szultan was really hard for me. You have your pets at home, and of course, It's undescribable how bonded you are to your dog. I don't think I'll ever have a love for When you love it, it doesn't even feel like a job anymore. It was one day you're in, the next day you're out, and then you're like, &quot;Wow, what do I do now?&quot; I thought about Szultan quite frequently. It was a hard transition, wondering if he was going to get retired I would message a couple of people After about two or three years, and I moved up to Pittsburgh to start going to school. When most handlers leave the military, they never know if they'll ever see their dog again. And the story for these dogs 20 years ago The military dogs were not being reunited They were being euthanized Because of the public outcry for these dogs, laws have changed where they do find their handlers. One day I got a random Instagram message from the handler that picked Szultan up right after me, I hadn't spoken to him in years, asking me because he was getting retired. When they retire, the handler that currently I think for some of these dogs, or food aggressive, it makes it difficult And I was a little concerned Nobody in the kennels wanted Szultan, but I said, &quot;Yes, I'll take him,&quot; because So I had to come get Szultan in, like, a two-week time span. I was kind of in panic mode. How am I going to go get Szultan? And that's why I called Mission K9, We get calls from handlers almost daily and because they just don't Charleston is like 10 hours away. I couldn't miss school. I couldn't miss work. I remember her calling me. I asked if maybe they could ship him up Absolutely not. That's not how this works. Give me a date and we'll go get him That's it? Um, thank you. I was just like, &quot;That's what we're here for.&quot; What Angela is experiencing is a pretty common issue, and once the dog retires, no matter where they are, they are not considered a military service member anymore. And so they have become a pet, not a vet. And so the military is not allowed so they'll ask us to step in Hi, Sheba. Our mission is that we rescue, reunite, rehome, rehabilitate and repair any retired We've reunited just over 500 retired military It never gets old. It gets a little addictive, Oh, who's a good boy? Hi! Come here. Oh, thank you. Mmmm, mmm, muah! As far as Szultan's concerned, when it's a dog that we've been told we're very respectful of what we know The plan to get Szultan is we're going pick him up, and we're going to rent Hi, Szultan. The last time I saw Szultan was about four years ago. I'm excited. Nervous. She's actually calling. Hey, OK, so we just, we just If you back up just a little bit, we are right here. OK, get down. Szultan. Big dude. I know, big dude. Hi, bud. I know it's so scary. I know. Hi, bud. I know, big guy. I know. It's OK. It's all so new. Aww, you guys. Thank you. Welcome to the pack, bud. Welcome to the pack. We came through every kind of weather, Szultan was perfect. He did great. It's super emotional to finally meet them, just because of what they do for handlers. Still trying not to cry. I hope that Szultan and Angela just have a great time He's worked very hard and to just get spoiled and loved. And Angela will definitely do that. Aww, boys. The last couple of days, he's mellowed out more than I've seen him Having Szultan come back, it's definitely like having a piece of the Air Force with me. I'm looking forward to the summer when I can go sit on a patio Szultan.