In front of us today we have three bezel-less, only have a 5th generation hidden under-screen camera, No camera rings, no humps, lumps, The Red Magic 9 Pro comes in textured sleet, I'll be giving away the two untouched Snowfall, however, I've noticed during my career that all the gaming phones first. The rest And iPhone users will be seeing all Let's get started. [Intro] The no camera bump thing is pretty wild. No lips In a world where everyone else seems to be competing for the biggest bump, Red Magic is not only eliminating the protruding rear lenses, Red Magic is nice enough It looks completely non-existent, but I assure you hidden under these pixels. I got to thinking, which is dangerous I know, what if we use a microscope camera to what's behind the screen? And it works surprisingly well. We can indeed see the camera, and if we enhance some more, that the 16 megapixels are peeping through. There is a surprising amount of free real estate in between these pixels, and feel free to take a good long look, because if you're under 40, We'll check the camera quality in a second. I feel like my mind has already been blown so many times by this phone, and we haven't even gotten to the 10 layer cooling system and Red Magic says that this fan, and an internal sandwich of thermal dissipation, can reduce the overall temperature of the processor by 18 degrees Celsius, It sucks air in through the right side, and side of the phone, strong enough to blow Spinning at 22,000rpms, my tweezers aren't But, if you happen to have a motherboard of a torn down OnePlus Open Lane around, as one often does, which also has a frayed signal wire, and transparent enough that It spins back up again after getting stopped, That will come later. First, we've got to put that underscreened selfie I'll turn off the beauty filter, At first glance, it's actually pretty solid. There is a bit more glare off the lights, and than the iPhone 15. But the Red Magic 9 Pro's underscreened selfie While the camera itself is still very much entirely world, pretty wild. With the camera being hidden under the display, And luckily for Red Magic, we see that indeed the 9 Pro scratches at a Red Magic is using Gorilla Glass 5. The sides of the phone are made from aerospace grade aluminum, with corner triggers on each end of the frame for extra gaming functionality. At 520 hertz, these non-scratching shoulder triggers before your finger The textured red gaming mode switch is metal, the circular power button is metal, the volume rocker is metal, The grill leads to a sealed metal channel Making our way to the top of the phone, This circular hole is actually a really cool This guy eliminates phonic delays by allowing a hardwire where milliseconds matter. An ultra-premium The bottom of the Red Magic 9 Pro has our lower stereo speaker, 80 watt USB-C port, which apparently charges dual batteries inside, tray with a red rubber ring. With the fan and everything else going on inside of this phone, but it's good to see that Making our way to the extraordinarily flat back panel, includes the camera lenses. We have our 50 megapixel main camera up top middle with our perfectly aligned turbo fan The only thing protruding I gotta point out though, that the sleet covered on the back, like a DJ record scratch or someone trying but both panels are made from glass and The wall-to-wall display inches and has a 120 hertz refresh rate with an instant Again, the screen knows you've touched it before you know you've touched it, which means you can't blame hardware for lag anymore. The fire doesn't really have much to do with anything, for about 20 seconds If we crank the internal turbo fan up to full blast, lit lighter, which is cool... or hot. Pretty sure this Red Magic 9 is the first phone the burn test. Thumbs up for that. Finally, setting my fingerprint with another sensor that sits below the pixels, everything goes pretty smoothly. And after adding some level 7 deeper grooves to the glass surface, the 9 Pro is still able to read and unlock my phone every single time. However, with regards to the bend test, if can rage quit by snapping in half, this The Red Magic 9 Pro is most definitely solid from both the front and the back, with the flat glass pieces inlaid inside an aluminum This Red Magic 9 Pro, just like all of its predecessors that came before, has the structure to survive my durability test. Nice work, Red Magic. I'm already looking forward to the teardown. Just be subscribed and leave a comment, And I'll pick two random There's also a link down in the description Thanks a ton for watching. I'll see you around.