My name is Jay Dobyns. I'm a retired undercover federal agent, and I infiltrated the Hells Angels. This is how crime works. With all the hatred from me in that gang and from their supporters, they can take some satisfaction of that they ran right over the top of me. All that battle damage, the failed prosecution, all they ran right over the I was just a speed bump. I was part of the Hells which we named Operation Black Biscuit, from 2001 to 2003. I We were both ATF agents. My false persona, I went by the name of Jay Davis. The gang members knew me as Jaybird, and I portrayed myself to be a The Hells Angels don't have They want people that bring them value. I had spent some time as an associate of the Hells Angels, so getting to let them get familiar with me, and I was invited to the clubhouse. And the invitation, it as it was an order. They believed and that I was running guns So I was told that if I intended I had to come to their and basically have them I showed up at the Mesa clubhouse and was greeted in the street Some had guns, some had baseball bats. In Arizona, you can open carry firearms, and so I had guns that were exposed on me. Some of the members who as security told me you can't bring your guns That's not allowed. And I told them, I'm and I don't take them off for anybody, including the Hells Angels. You have people that you feel like you need to defend yourself against. So do I. If I allowed them to to me, it was never going to end. And at that point, one of the shot callers from and put his arm over my I make the rules, and you can So right off the bat, from that very first critical interaction, I felt like I was winning. The Hells Angels call themselves a club, the Hells Angels Motorcycle Club. There's charters, and within the charter, there's a president, a which is in charge of weapons When I was associated with which is where I started, their president was Bad Bob Johnston. And he was a very well-respected, feared longtime Hells Angel. If I could gain his trust, that his trust would be projected to other members and would open doors for me. In the biker gang, you The first step is that which is, you're just some time in the presence Once you build a relationship, the gang will ask you to hang around. Then, after you prospect, ultimately, hopefully you're doing that From the date of your prospecting from, when it starts, there's a And that's to some extent because they know that a cop and can't keep up with To be a full-patched Hells Angel, it is everything to those members. The patches that they wear and the formatting of their vests, is very important in this hierarchy. I was a hang-around for the Skull Valley, Arizona, So I had a black cut that had nothing but Skull Valley on the front. When you become a prospect, you get your bottom rocker, So when I was prospecting, I When you become a member, then you get your top rocker, or whatever the gang is, which, the Hells Angels' To get full membership, you have to be voted on by the and you have to receive a 100% vote. If one member of that charter votes against you, you're There's another rule in the land of prospects, is that Territory is very important The territory you control influences how much money you can They're constantly trying to acquire territories The rivalry that I became most aware of, or closest to, was the with the Mongols motorcycle gang. The Mongols were a I was at the 2002 Laughlin a major, major biker The Mongols' home base which was a short drive up the main Laughlin drag, Casino Drive, to where the Hells Angels' home base was, which was the Flamingo Hotel. Some Hells Angels went down to Harrah's and started poking and it was on. And it was I stepped outside of the Flamingo, and police cruisers and and police helicopters were all And I was with another agent, and I turned to him and I said, &quot;Well, I guess we know where Because the police response was massive. The Harrah's Casino riot, the Twin Peaks shooting in Texas, those biker clashes are We typically don't see it or hear about it until it takes place in a where just common man There were fights that I was present for, that I knew the rules, and I But at the same time, I some innocent civilian, get beat down. I would find the target and throw some legitimate punches on them. Like, I wasn't faking throwing good, hard, solid punches on the But in essence, what I was doing was I wasn't going to kill in the head, but they if they take a steel-toed I got a call from a Skull &quot;Get to the clubhouse right now, and bring all your hardware,&quot; I was told the Bandidos Las Vegas is our territory, and they have not requested a hall pass. We expect you to shoot them before they get the kickstands And here's the kicker: We're going to be watching If you don't shoot them, I was able to get in Joe Slatalla, and tell Joe Slatalla found this pack of Bandidos, pulled them to the side of So I showed up at the target location with but the Bandidos never showed up. In the eyes of the Hells Angels, all they knew is we sent Jaybird to Las Vegas to kill Bandidos, and dang it, he was there, I allowed the Hells Angels to in order to hopefully avoid that I knew were coming. In biker land, a mud check is a test to see if you're going to s--- your with a treacherous situation. So they would accurately see I would either receive or give or give money in exchange, by a Hells Angels, like, What they didn't realize is in the transaction with was who was playing the role of a drug dealer. The local police departments, the local officers, they I got stopped by the cops all the time. I got beaten up by the cops. I was never as good of a motorcycle rider as the Hells Angels were. They could perform tricks and do all kinds of crazy stunts that I couldn't do. And riding in a pack of Hells Angels, it takes an enormous amount of focus. You have to trust the person riding next to you, because they're so close. Like, one person makes a mistake in that conga line of motorcycles, I was told when you meet a Hells Angel and you got your sunglasses on, you better lift your sunglasses up and look that person in the eye. That member wants to see your eyes. I was told if I had riding gloves on, you better take your riding glove off when you shake hands with a Hells Angel. Never touch a Hells Angel's patch. Never slap them on the back. I made those mistakes and I was smacked for it on occasion. With regards to women, there's a hierarchy that There's old ladies who are the wives or girlfriends of You better not get caught trying to mess around with a member's wife or girlfriend, because there's But there's also women who, they move from member to member to member. Members can leave the gang of their Like, in essence, they can retire, and when they retire, They still have to relinquish all their Hells Angels property, they will come and take They will take back your in their eyes, and they'll I was a part and a piece of the process of those reclamations of Like basically, almost like the police doing a into a guy's house, and that said or looked like it The Hells Angels operate independently in their charters, as far as how they make money and how So there's charters that and that aren't involved There's others that are involved gun running, extortions, There's no payday or no salary to be drawn by being a There's no big universal bank There was Hells Angels members that I ran across that and putting those profits in their pocket and keeping at least the bulk And then they also, they have legitimate businesses that Just the swag and paraphernalia of the Hells Angels is a The Hells Angels hold toy runs and they conduct blood drives and that shouldn't be They make positive contributions to society with those things. Hells Angels parties could be as spontaneous as the drop of a hat. You could be at the clubhouse, music's blaring and guests are arriving and women are coming in They could be inside, outside. They happened at parks, campsites. There's a myth that every There was Hells Angels that took care of themselves. They ate well. They got their rest. They didn't drink. They didn't smoke. So to decline those a false alarm, a red flag against you. I have a tattoo of St. Michael on my arm and St. Michael is the patron It signifies good triumphing over evil. There was times when I got pressed, where I would show my St. Michael tattoo and say, do you understand what this is? I got this when I graduated from rehab. The reason why I'm here, the with me, is because I'm sober, because I have money in my pocket. All those things that As the infiltration on started winding down, we had two years under well over a million dollars and I still had not received membership. I still hadn't gotten my To be quite honest, selfishly, I was trying So I went back to one of those very early statements What happens if I cross I was told it's your So I went to the Skull Valley and I told them, &quot;I've got a We found this Mongol. I dug a shallow grave in the desert, took some What they didn't know is that The murdered Mongol was a that we had dressed up, concealed his face in the pictures, and then we'd used blood and guts from the butcher a crime scene. They made me a member there of the Skull Valley charter, Now, after the fact, they They denied that they believed it. OK, I understand that. They denied that I ever became a member. Both sides of that I was made a member of I was given a cut and told and that I was a member of Skull Valley. But I was also told because I was within the one-year that an international vote to accelerate my membership, Our case ended before the So so they're correct in that, too. I've never tried to hedge that. I've never tried to dance So the operation concluded We had a lot, a vast amount of evidence against our suspects, physical of tape-recorded conversation, In the end, we indicted 55 and 16 of those were indicted RICO charges. Some charges were dismissed. Some charges were reduced. In that discovery open-source process, the Hells Angels learned thought to be Jay Davis, the gun runner, the was actually Jay Dobyns, an ATF agent. And the threats against me and my family started stacking up. The Hells Angels held They were farmed to the Aryan Brotherhood. They were farmed to the MS-13 So all these people had their fingers on a murder contract for me. My family was in jeopardy, and in the summer of 2008, my In the process of this Hells Angels case, I abandoned and betrayed my family. I made this investigation my priority. My wife and my kids weren't. I was trying to be a and in the process I That's one of the things, is I built real human relationships. Not every second was spent in the middle of some criminal activity or doing something violent I spent time with members not violently or threatening Members slept at my house. There's human relationships and you can never undercover There's people you like. It's no different than any I wrote a book. It's titled, &quot;No Angel: My Harrowing Undercover Journey to the Inner Circle of the Hells Angels.&quot; Then, after I did that, and after I followed ATF's they ultimately sued me for the book. I coached high school football at the end of my career which I've got a lot of satisfaction from. That service before self, of young men and teach them