Just over a year ago, for the third time in my life, I was having a small operation, I remember a sense and a coldness. And then I was back, but definitely there. Now, when you wake from a deep sleep, you might feel confused about the time but there's always a basic sense of a continuity between then and now. Coming round from I could have been under five years or even 50 years. I simply wasn't there. It was total oblivion. Anesthesia -- It turns people into objects, and then, we hope, back again into people. And in this process is one of the greatest remaining How does consciousness happen? Somehow, within each of our brains, the combined activity each one a tiny biological machine, is generating a conscious experience. And not just any conscious experience -- your conscious experience How does this happen? Answering this question is so important because consciousness Without it there's no world, there's no self, there's nothing at all. And when we suffer, we suffer consciously whether it's through And if we can experience what about other animals? Might they be conscious, too? Do they also have a sense of self? And as computers get faster and smarter, maybe there will come a point, when my iPhone develops I actually think the prospects And I think this because that consciousness has less to do and more to do with our nature Consciousness and intelligence You don't have to be smart to suffer, In the story I'm going to tell you, our conscious experiences and of ourselves within it, are kinds of controlled hallucinations that happen with, through Now, you might have heard about how the brain and body Some people even say it's beyond But in fact, the last 25 years have seen an explosion If you come to my lab you'll find scientists and sometimes even philosophers. All of us together trying to understand and what happens when it goes wrong. And the strategy is very simple. I'd like you to think about consciousness in the way that we've At one time, people thought could not be explained that life had to be But people no longer think that. As biologists got on with the job of explaining the properties in terms of physics and chemistry -- things like metabolism, the basic mystery of what life is and people didn't propose like a force of life or an elan vital. So as with life, so with consciousness. Once we start explaining its properties in terms of things happening the apparently insoluble mystery should start to fade away. At least that's the plan. So let's get started. What are the properties of consciousness? What should a science Well, for today I'd just like to think There are experiences full of sights, sounds and smells, there's multisensory, panoramic, And then there's conscious self. The specific experience The lead character in this inner movie, and probably the aspect of consciousness Let's start with experiences and with the important idea Imagine being a brain. You're locked inside a bony skull, trying to figure There's no lights inside the skull. All you've got to go on which are only indirectly related whatever they may be. So perception -- has to be a process of informed guesswork in which the brain combines with its prior expectations or beliefs to form its best guess The brain doesn't hear sound or see light. What we perceive is its best guess Let me give you a couple You might have seen this illusion before, but I'd like you to think If you look at those two patches, A and B, they should look to you to be But they are in fact And I can illustrate this. If I put up a second version and join the two patches you can see there's no difference. It's exactly the same shade of gray. And if you still don't believe me, I'll bring the bar across It's a single colored block of gray, This isn't any kind of magic trick. It's the same shade of gray, but take it away again, So what's happening here is that the brain built deeply into the circuits that a cast shadow dims so that we see B as lighter Here's one more example, which shows just how quickly to change what we consciously experience. Have a listen to this. (Distorted voice) Sounded strange, right? Have a listen again (Distorted voice) Still strange. Now listen to this. (Recording) Anil Seth: I think Brexit (Laughter) Which I do. So you heard some words there, right? Now listen to the first sound again. (Distorted voice) Yeah? So you can now hear words there. Once more for luck. (Distorted voice) OK, so what's going on here? The remarkable thing is the sensory hasn't changed at all. All that's changed of the causes of that sensory information. And that changes All this puts the brain in a bit of a different light. Instead of perception depending largely from the outside world, it depends as much, if not more, on perceptual predictions We don't just passively we actively generate it. The world we experience from the inside out as from the outside in. Let me give you as this active, constructive process. Here we've combined immersive to simulate the effects on experience. In this panoramic video, which is in this case Sussex campus -- into a psychedelic playground. We've processed the footage using to simulate the effects In this case, to see dogs. And you can see When perceptual as they are here, the result looks very much people might report in altered states, or perhaps even in psychosis. Now, think about this for a minute. If hallucination is a kind then perception right here and right now but a controlled hallucination in which the brain's predictions by sensory information from the world. In fact, we're all including right now. It's just that when we agree we call that reality. (Laughter) Now I'm going to tell you the specific experience of being you, is also a controlled hallucination This seems a very strange idea, right? Yes, visual illusions but how could I be deceived For most of us, the experience of being a person is so familiar, so unified that it's difficult But we shouldn't take it for granted. There are in fact many different ways There's the experience of having a body and of being a body. There are experiences from a first person point of view. There are experiences and of being the cause of things And there are experiences of being a continuous built from a rich set Many experiments show, and psychiatrists that these different ways can all come apart. What this means is of being a unified self is a rather Another experience, requires explanation. So let's return to the bodily self. How does the brain generate and of having a body? Well, just the same principles apply. The brain makes its best guess about what is and what is not And there's a beautiful experiment And unlike most neuroscience experiments, this is one you can do at home. All you need is one of these. (Laughter) And a couple of paintbrushes. In the rubber hand illusion, a person's real hand is hidden from view, and that fake rubber hand Then both hands are simultaneously while the person stares at the fake hand. Now, for most people, after a while, this leads to the very uncanny sensation that the fake hand And the idea is that the congruence on an object that looks like hand is enough evidence for the brain that the fake hand (Laughter) So you can measure You can measure skin conductance but there's no need. It's clear the guy in blue This means that even experiences is a kind of best guessing -- a kind of controlled There's one more thing. We don't just experience our bodies we also experience them from within. We all experience the sense And sensory signals are continually telling the brain how the heart is doing, lots of things. This kind of perception, is rather overlooked. But it's critically important because perception and regulation well, that's what keeps us alive. Here's another version This is from our lab at Sussex. And here, people see which flashes red and back either in time or out of time And when it's flashing people have a stronger sense So experiences of having a body in perceiving our bodies from within. There's one last thing which is that experiences of the body from experiences of the world around us. When I look around me, tables, chairs, rubber hands, people, you lot -- even my own body in the world, I can perceive it But my experiences they're not like that at all. I don't perceive my kidneys here, my liver here, my spleen ... I don't know where my spleen is, but it's somewhere. I don't perceive my insides as objects. In fact, I don't experience them And this is important, I think. Perception of the internal isn't about figuring out what's there, it's about control and regulation -- keeping the physiological variables that are compatible with survival. When the brain uses predictions we perceive objects When the brain uses predictions we experience how well So our most basic experiences of being an embodied organism, are deeply grounded in the biological And when we follow this idea we can start to see since they all depend on the same all stem from this basic We experience the world and ourselves with, through and because of Let me bring things together step-by-step. What we consciously see depends on the brain's best guess Our experienced world not just the outside in. The rubber hand illusion shows of what is and what is not our body. And these self-related predictions coming from deep inside the body. And finally, experiences of being an embodied self than figuring out what's there. So our experiences of the world well, they're kinds that have been shaped to keep us alive in worlds We predict ourselves into existence. Now, I leave you with three First, just as we can we can misperceive ourselves when the mechanisms Understanding this opens many new because we can finally rather than just treating the symptoms in conditions like Second: what it means to be me a software program running on a robot, however smart or sophisticated. We are biological, flesh-and-blood animals whose conscious experiences by the biological mechanisms Just making computers smarter Finally, our own individual inner universe, our way of being conscious, is just one possible And even human consciousness generally -- it's just a tiny region in a vast space Our individual self and worlds but they're all grounded shared with many other living creatures. Now, these are fundamental changes in how we understand ourselves, but I think they should be celebrated, because as so often in science, we're not at the center of the universe -- to Darwin -- we're related to all other creatures -- to the present day. With a greater sense of understanding comes a greater sense of wonder, and a greater realization that we are part of And ... when the end of consciousness comes, there's nothing to be afraid of. Nothing at all. Thank you. (Applause)