(bouncy piano music) - [Voiceover] Sand, water, sun. The whole Universe is made of atoms, even children are made of atoms. At least that's what you believe. And it's surely what - We're taught in school that all the Universe is made out of atoms. But it turns out that's there's a whole much bigger which is made up of completely stuff that we haven't encountered before. And we're trying to find out what that is. - [Voiceover] Today science that calls into question our certainties. There's now something else in the cosmos. A reality we are only - Most of the Universe is made out of stuff that we you know 95% of the Universe - [Voiceover] In fact, atoms in the Universe. The rest is still totally unknown to us. - We know what it isn't, but we don't know what it is. (owl hoots) - Dark matter isn't supernatural, but its mysterious behavior to mind. In fact some people because it's this invisible, all around us but it just It's almost as if it has all around us. (drum rhythms) - [Voiceover] Across the globe, scientists have embarked on a crazy race, chasing dark matter in the sky, underground, and in outer space. But for now, the more advanced equipment the more they reveal the - What is dark matter? What is dark matter... I don't know what, if I knew - It's the stuff which fills my dream and doesn't make me sleep at night. - We are at the beginning of right now. It's a huge revolution the Copernican Revolution. - Finding a particle of dark It would solve what is the in science: what is the Universe made of? - [Voiceover] Why are of the existence of this Because without dark matter, the Universe wouldn't be the way it is. There wouldn't be enough gravity for stars and galaxies to rotate - It turns out there's just They don't have enough gravity to hold the Milky Way together. And it's fortunate for us in the Milky Way, that and keeps the whole Milky Way together. It's fortunate for us any dark matter in the Milky Way, there wouldn't be enough force, we couldn't hold the Milky Way together and all the stars would fly off into the cosmos. (somber orchestral music) - [Voiceover] This story But the question wasn't By the American, Vera Rubin. A young mother of three children, Vera chose to specialize in a field where competition from male Rather than observing black holes, she turned her interest to the stars of the Andromeda galaxy. Sir Isaac Newton taught us the farther away a planet is from the Sun, the more slowly it turns. Vera therefore expected in the Andromeda galaxy decreasing curve. But that wasn't what she observed. The speeds of the stars remained constant, whatever their distance - She was able to see, and as you go further and further out from the center of the galaxy, you would expect that slower and slower because of the gravitational pull to pull them in. But they weren't. They kept going further and high velocity. - [Voiceover] Why was for the Solar System was Would Newton's theory need modifying when we went up in scale? Or did we need to come up with a new, extremely heavy matter which would create the necessary gravity for The shy Vera, dared not and opted for the second solution. A hidden mass that allows just as quickly without being scattered throughout the Universe. - The idea behind dark matter is this; there anomalies in the of galaxies and to we suppose that there exists which effects the but the origin and nature of - [Voiceover] Since this discovery, scientists have strived to dark matter. But how do you detect - (translated) You can see normal matter. Because it emits or reflects light. A bit like these trees from this flashlight. Conversely dark matter Light goes right through it, so it really is dark. And the only way of seeing on its environment. Imagine that I'm made up So you can't see me. But if I take my cup and drink my coffee, like this, you can't see me but you which proves there is And this something is in the Universe. Which acts, thanks to on its environment. - [Voiceover] To detect uses the curvature of Space-Time in his Theory of Relativity. - (translated) To understand and how rays of light are you have to think of the tablecloth grid with a At each point that the sphere is placed the tablecloth will be deformed. This deformation is the in Albert Einstein's Theory of Relativity. If you now propagate rays of light, they will be deviated by the of Space-Time produced by the matter. - [Voiceover] Einstein called this effect gravitational lensing. The object constituting the and massive to bend rays of light. But this phenomenon remained a theory and was yet to be observed until Yannick and colleagues happened upon something strange in the sky in Hawaii. In 1985 Yannick, then a young researcher, arrived at one of the best 4,200 meters above sea level Mauna Kea. - (translated) We didn't go We went there to study the of galaxies far from Earth. Suddenly we detected a that looked like an elongated smile. Much more elongated than a galaxy. And what's more, very distorted. No astronomical object was So we were faced with a huge enigma. And we set out to try and - [Voiceover] What was the spot on the edge of the Was it an optical effect in the telescope? That's what everyone believed at the time, because it was thought that in galaxy clusters to deviate light. But Yannick who had just finished his PhD and his colleagues were was the signature of another - (translated) The observer And if a galaxy is exactly and the observer, then extremely strong Leading to the formation - [Voiceover] Yannicks If gravitational arcs existed, then there must also be hidden and density to galaxies to bend light. By observing the curve of the arcs, he could now see where dark matter was. And how it was distributed By applying this method widely, he realized he had for detecting dark matter in the Universe. Then began a race against to publish this discovery. - (translated) We published two other articles appeared. One by a British team who had independently detected and with different data, exactly the same phenomenon. This was the gravitational in astrophysics. For the first time we had found a method for seeing dark matter and measuring and evaluating its presence. (slow piano and string music) - Gravitational lensing might or complicated idea but actually seeing light deflected is even when we just look we see distorted images Even though the water's because of the distortion. Well in astronomy it's When we see distorted that there's some dark and that's our evidence that and massive out there. So you see we're actually gravitational lensing, we use it every day. (piano and string music) - [Voiceover] In Durham, astronomer Richard Massey of dark matter in the Universe. - Exploring a new topic in a new frontier in the wilderness. You first map out what it What we're seeing here is of the dark universe around us. And that's shown in blue, that's as seen by the through the use of this So let's say we have a hypothetical galaxy on the far side of the Universe, shown by this little yellow dot. Now as the light from that across the Universe towards it doesn't travel in straight lines. It gets bent around that it passes near. And what we end up seeing of the galaxy but a distorted one. It's as if the light rays from this galaxy have become bent crimped and distorted. And we see it subtly distorted and even though we can't it's those distortions in the images of very distant galaxies that very heavy, even if it's (slow dark music) - [Voiceover] Astronomers can hidden matter. But what is this ghostly matter made of? Is it formed of atoms? The particles that comprise sand, water, and even children? How can scientists study this matter which weighs so heavily and which is invisible to our instruments? (adventure music) In the jungle of Puerto Rico, dark matter hunters have built to peer into the sky beyond the visible. - What we're trying to see is things that other To see dark matter you when I first came down here I thought this is like a giant spaceship - [Voiceover] Radio what our eyes are incapable of detecting. Radio waves, like infrared are invisible to the naked eye. But we know how to capture them with all kinds of instruments and that emit them. With its 305 meter diameter radio telescope in the world. On the ground 40,000 collect radio waves and send which acts as a receiver. It allows us to observe in particular, gigantic clouds of hydrogen Elsewhere other astronomers dead stars, star dust Are these massive yet the long sought after dark matter? - We've added together the the other gas we know the dark objects we can see other stars and all of that we still need about 10 times more mass, and so we ruled out that it could be gas, we ruled out that it and in doing so we ruled ordinary matter. And so the only option some exotic dark matter. It's as if we are now going into a fourth Copernican Revolution. The first Copernican Revolution was when we un-centered the Earth. People thought the Earth was the center and then we said no, the The second Copernican the Sun isn't at the center either. And the third Copernican we said even the galaxy the Universe actually has no center. But now, we've got to the not at the center, but the very stuff we're made of is only 10% of the stuff of the Universe. And 90% of it is this dark matter. And so we really want (slow string music) - [Voiceover] Our physics of the Universe. We are indeed made up of atoms, but we are bathed in a This cosmological revolution has given a new dimension to We no longer know the of the Universe. - (translated) We've gone from it's hidden matter, phase, to phase. So it has become a much more Discoveries are being made which show we know less than we thought. A discovery doesn't necessarily It increases our awareness We now know what dark matter isn't, we don't yet know what it is, but we may discover the in the formation of the cosmos. At the University of Princeton David Spurgel is trying to first instance of the Universe. - My job is to figure out You need a little bit of persistence, some curiosity, some understanding of mathematics and an idea how to cook. We have to figure out the cosmic recipe. What ingredients does it take - [Voiceover] Since his election as Astronomer of the Year by Time Magazine, David Spurgel has been trying to describe in simple terms the complex In cosmic cuisine, everything the lumpiness and cooking time. - What I'm going to do For the dark matter, since and will make a more flavorful soup, we're gonna try several The dark matter could black beans, green beans, it could be something or perhaps peppers. This green tea here is and the atoms that make up just a thin frosting on This hot water here is We'll add that on top, so we can steep the soup. This is starting to look like the Universe back in its first few when it was an opaque place where we couldn't see through it. - [Voiceover] Astronomers and radiation soup remained opaque for 380,000 years after the Big Bang. The Universe was an extremely hot magma. And so condensed that in which light particles But after 380,000 years, the Universe expanded for light particles to And a gigantic flash of The light particles emitted a long journey. 13.7 billion years later, in 1964, two scientists in New Jersey, intercepted this light by chance. They picked up some background noise that they couldn't explain. The signal was so weak that a defect in their radio telescope They cleaned the antenna These were indeed waves Deformed and cooled after their they had finally reached Earth radio signal. Penzias and Wilson had just of the formation of the Universe. But astronomers needed to of this event. (intense brass music) On June 30th, 2001 the WMAP Probe was launched into orbit 1.5 million kilometers from the Earth in order to analyze this relic radiation. It's aim, to capture the into being and to map - What's wonderful about is you're looking back in to a time when the So I like to think what we're baby picture. And my job is to look at the baby picture and try to figure out where'd the baby come from, and what will it grow up into? And put together a story of how the Universe formed and evolved. - [Voiceover] Here is the first picture of this baby Universe. A mere 380,000 years after the Big Bang. The red zones are the The blue zones are the coolest. These minuscule differences in temperature are vital clues in understanding of the Universe. - The pattern we see in are tiny variations in temperature, due to variations in So this point here might be a few hundred thousandths than this hot spot over here. These tiny variations the dark matter. The dark matter was lumpy, and its gravity attracted the radiation. And the atoms. And we wouldn't see the it it wasn't for the dark matter. (jazzy music) - [Voiceover] In 2011 after and thought, David Spurgel conclusion. - Without dark matter, the 13.7 billion years since the Big Bang is not enough time to Dark matter is an essential the seeds around which gravity makes galaxies grow. And without these seeds we we see to today. (whimsical music) - [Voiceover] Dark matter in the formation of the providing the skeleton around which atoms of ordinary matter But is there a way of How do we know whether our is on the right track? For this, scientists work like detectives, reconstructing a crime scene. And as the stakes are high, cosmology labs are racing each other to trace the history of the As it is impossible to scientists try to simulate cosmology machines. - This is the cosmology machine. 3,000 individual it can perform 30 million million arithmetic operations every second. This is awesome computing power, but that's what it takes our Universe. - There are about 8.6 billion particles that we used to make this simulation, we ran it on 14,000 of on NASA's biggest super computer, we called the simulation Bolshoi, which is the Russian word that means big in the sense of great or grand. - [Voiceover] Everything is in fact invisible. Only dark matter is represented. Seen forming structures and filaments which went on to form galaxies. - If you tried to make a Universe without dark matter, it's a disaster. The dark matter is the Without dark matter, there would be no people, and there would be no human mind capable of asking the question: why is the Universe the way it is, what makes it work? - [Voiceover] These a fantastic tale. One that a number of from their fascination with light, emitted by the Universe According to this tale dark matter is the cradle of the stars. And the stars forged the - Dark matter is our friend. Dark matter allows us to exist. It's in the stars that carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, iron, the kind of heavy elements We and rocky planets like if it were not for generations of stars building up the heavy elements within the centers of that host galaxies. So we would not exist if the - [Voiceover] To find out if cosmologists compare their Although they use slightly each is convinced he has the right recipe. - You feel like you're playing God, making a Universe in a computer. Here is a galaxy made by a real galaxy. I can hardly tell them apart. We got the right recipe, and visible matter. And I can tell you that there than to see the computer that our telescopes see (mystical string music) - [Voiceover] The simulations has been sculpting our But is there a way of If science could capture a single particle of this dark matter, the greatest mystery of modern physics would be solved. Followed by a Nobel Prize. This crazy race is the new - (translated) It's a huge challenge. Because it's a question of Physics can't go on for a tiny part of the Universes components. The aim of physics is to in the Universe. And today we must humbly admit, that we're incapable of identifying them. So it's a massive challenge. (energetic adventure music) - (translated) We've been for 22 years in the It's been so long, we must - I always want to be number one. Why would you leave this great - [Voiceover] Leading the and Gilles Gebier. Both dreaming of the Nobel Prize. But for what obscure reason decide to carry out their on either side of the Why instead of looking into space, have they buried themselves deep beneath the Earths surface? The reason the Modane underground lab is buried under some 17 is that it's imperative that interfere with the experiment. - (translated) Detecting of dark matter is very complex. Because they're tiny. They have a very low fission section and they rarely leave signals. So the difficult thing is, signal, nothing must be allowed - [Voiceover] As strange as it might seem dark matter particles pass They are capable of crossing of rock and the thick that protects this germanium detector. This is where Gilles hopes event: the collision between a and a germanium crystal atom. - (translated) When a particle arrives it makes the whole crystal vibrate. And causes a tiny rise in temperature. About a millionth of a degree. Which we measure with - [Voiceover] 700 kilometers away deep within Mount Gran Sasso in Italy Elena Aprille is Gilles' fiercest rival. To detect dark matter she a rare gas she fell in love with early in her research career. - We have the best detector right now, to see dark matter honestly. It's so because it is first very large volumes that you need, you need a lot of atoms is rare, so the larger the better, we always say that, but you in volume you also have to the background. That's what doesn't - [Voiceover] As the probability with a particle of dark the detectors once in This year, Gilles Gerbier got lucky. His detector captured four particles, seen here in red, which But statistically three of them could be background noise. - (translated) This data's inconclusive, so all we can do is more high performance detectors, and start over. Set up the new detectors, wait for a year and then recalculate the background noise and open up the box again. - [Voiceover] Across the globe, hundreds of other there brain power and their detectors. But despite all their efforts, the particle remains elusive. - You have to be crazy Honestly you cannot go after something which doesn't show up. I don't know if it's frustrating the thought of putting in an experiment which it is very frustrating. - (translated) Some problems to solve. The existence of the atom for example, was suggested by Greek But for thousands of years was hotly debated. The question wasn't answered So sometimes it takes over that an imagined object exists for real, in nature. (intense music) - [Voiceover] For researchers failing to identify it is unbearable. As it's so hard to capture, some scientists have suggested. Let's reconstruct the Big Bang, have replied the more daring among them. In the end, it's in Geneva that 10,000 in the worlds biggest ever Like everything concerning dark matter, the essential thing is invisible. Hidden in a tunnel some and a hundred meters underground, the LHC is the largest man has ever built, at the astronomic cost Daniel Denegri is a founding father of CMS one of the LHC's two giant detectors. - (translated) With the LHC and the Atlas experiment, we approach the problem to direct detection. In direct detection you look the residue of something that happened 13.7 billion years ago. With the LHC we produce it, through collisions that collisions with a very high energy level we reproduce locally the of a phase in the Big Bang when particles were produced for the very of the Universe. - [Voiceover] How do you create, a hundred meters underground, big bangs that give birth to Two beams of particles are before colliding in a minuscule space, measuring a thousandth of a And for an infinitesimal instant a billionth of a billionth of a second. Will all these billions of particles, collisions analyzed, and euros invested succeed visible? - (translated) The probability being produced in a It takes a million billion one such particle. And then you have to isolate this particle from all the background noise. The stakes of this research are so high that results must be confirmed For this, two competing experiments CMS and Atlas use the same particle Which will solve the great of the Universe? Each of the two teams is in a very strange way. - (translated) This is the is taking place. Behind me are the millions of detectors we've installed here. The detector is the size of a cathedral. It's as if we've built a whole cathedral a hundred meters underground. (intense music) - [Voiceover] For now the But here's what Bruno Mansoulie - (translated) If there were it would cause a very because we'd see lots of let's say on the left, and nothing on the other. And this nothing would mean invisible particles. And these invisible particles - [Voiceover] Once again if we saw nothing. Or merely the trace of its passing. - (translated) Finding intellectual and scientific progress. The kind man makes once like the discovery of relativity These are massive steps of human knowledge. - (translated) It would because a result coming could solve a problem that only exists in astrophysics and cosmology. So there would be a marriage small world, the world of particles and the infinitely big world, that of cosmology. (mysterious theremin music) - [Voiceover] A final of dark matter. Since it is so difficult or even to make it, researchers will try to find In outer space. Direction, the Well beyond the Earths atmosphere. Leading this scientific first is American Nobel Prize - The International of three football field. The cost is about 100 billion dollars, therefore it's about the cost of 10 LHC. On this facility there is one particle physics The purpose of this experiment is to see what is the origin of dark matter. - [Voiceover] With this new experiment, scientists are stretching the even farther. If the theoreticians are correct when two particles of dark matter collide they should produce a that the AMS detector should pick up. The experiment began in May 2011 when Mark Kelley and his on the International Space Station. - We just installed the it's a two billion dollar really a premier physics experiment that's supported by 16 600 physicists. We got it successfully it's a great day for science. - Your support and fantastic work have taken us one step closer to realizing the science potential of AMS. - Well thank you Sam, I was just looking out and AMS looks absolutely fantastic. (mystical music) - [Voiceover] Samuel the Nobel Prize for his discovery Will he find in outer space, of dark matter? - This is really the first time people have put a certain into space. So in a sense you open a new door. What you really can see is very difficult to predict. If you know what you're looking for, and if you found it, you have not learned anything. It's the important thing to That's how science advance. (intense harmonic music) - [Voiceover] While scientists the mystery of dark matter, they are confronted with another enigma. Dark energy, a force that three quarters of the is putting everyone out of joint. This massive unknown has a cloud of fog. - Maybe that all we know about cosmology may be about as much this bad cloud of fog. We just made things even worse, we already had the mystery of dark matter and now it's three or four times worse because we don't even know what the energy is, the dark energy. - [Voiceover] It was while of the Universe that Saul Perlmutter made this strange discovery. By precisely measuring the he thought he would determine But he didn't discover - The Universe wasn't slowing down enough to come to a halt, in fact it was speeding up. And that was completely think that we were gonna and it began the whole understand what's going on. How is it that we live in a in its expansion? - [Voiceover] While the should be slowing down, Saul Perlmutter's observations speeding up. A colossal energy must then to scatter. This discovery confirmed by another team earned him the Nobel Prize in 2011. But we still know nothing that governs the outcome of the Universe. - Dark energy is something than dark matter because it is a, we think it may be itself that makes space want and faster. - [Voiceover] This energy of and unexplained goes against Breaking up the Universe - There's a giant cosmic the Universe started but the dark matter because it has gravity holds it together and tries but the dark energy seems seems to be ripping it apart again, so there's this giant battle with the dark matter pulling it in and the dark energy pulling it out and at the moment we actually - [Voiceover] We know almost that govern the fate of the Universe. But strangely we do have of our ignorance. Atoms comprise almost 5% of the Universe. Dark matter about 23%, and surprisingly dark energy about 72%. In all, we have absolutely up 95% of the Universe. - (translated) We have to add two things. Dark matter and dark energy. The paradox is that we can observed in the Universe we know nothing about. For a rigorous physicist, maybe we've added too much. Simply to avoid admitting to everyone that we really don't understand very much. (mysterious music) - [Voiceover] Have the Newtons Theory of Gravity, and Einsteins Theory of Relativity, become incapable of Dark matter and dark energy and forcing us to of the cosmos. - (translated) If we keep suggesting unidentifiable ghostly entities can we still trust in If there is no experimental proof of their existence in reality, we must doubt not reality itself, but the theory that claims to describe it. And thus come up with a There's always a dialectic and the reality that And the question is, theory, or reality? - [Voiceover] Is dark matter here to stay? With the discovery of dark energy darkness seems to have gained ground, at least until we've But until then we must skimming the surface of the world. (mysterious sting music)