Behind me is one of Imperial War Museums' combat-veteran Spitfire Mk 1. It the Hurricane, that fought the Luftwaffe during Early Spitfires like the example behind us guns. They fired the 303 rifle caliber Spitfire through its development, not only but also larger armament. In the case of the 20mm The story of the Spitfire's armament be considered controversial to this day. in Jonathan Ferguson of Royal Armouries the three main weapons that the Spitfire But first let's step back and look at the During the First World War air fighting was carry different ranges of weapons, but only carried a maximum of two forward period planners began to look forward to a required. Aircraft were developed and it guns would be required in any future war. enter service the Gloster Gladiator equipped But even as the Gloster Gladiator is entering RAF is just over the horizon. These aircraft capable of flying over 300 mph. The air only be capable of following an enemy only a very short period of time to So enter into our story Fred Hill and to put down this required amount of fire, we Although eight machine gun seemed excessive at the time the most cutting edge fighter just was able to accommodate these machine guns. So now over to you Jonathan to tell us Hi guys Jonathan here at the Royal Armories Of course this is technically a firearm specifically the Spitfire. This is the first and the Hurricane of course and other aircraft. 303 belt-fed machine gun. Air cooled, you This thing is putting out 1,150 rounds per good chance of tagging the enemy with some of rifle caliber round. More than capable of killing The problem was the size of it. It can only be content in there to really do damage to the fabric putting a sort of swarm of angry bees into the Pneumatic firing system you can see two required for for the Browning. A the Spitfire. 300 rounds per gun initially, minute to hopefully hit something. But you and you're not doing the damage that you really By the time the Spitfire comes into service four in each wing. But with the these aircraft can fly at some problems themselves freezing as the aircraft hot air is pumped from the engine through the are fixed to the front of the gun apertures As such the Spitfire's armament is ready of 1940 and what we now know as the Battle of Luftwaffe attempted to gain air supremacy three main single engine fighters of the Spitfire and the Hurricane equipped with Luftwaffe was equipped with the single engined with two machine guns and crucially two cannon. Because the British fighters were equipped with meaning they could fire more bullets at the differing range of weapons the Germans fire meaning that they could put down their British counterparts. So it's clear that combination to use? And it was something that of the opposing forces and is still debated But something was changing the calculations on and prevalence of armour in the German bombers. and its penetration ability of this armor was needed to hit the aircraft have any chance of weapon with more hitting power to bring down the a new weapon the 20mm Hispano Cannon. And for Right, now the RAF takes an enormous leap forward rifle round with the Hispano 20mm. As you can see even if you were firing standard lead cord if you can call it that, of these is that penetrator which is what one of these guys is. that's the the red with the white tip. And incendiary that's tearing apart tearing ripping control lines, tearing you name it. That powerful onew punch is how these The gun itself is quite technically interesting, is why you can't see the front end. Now the front very late war or or post-war. The gun itself These big rounds are are belted together and that the armourer had to hike out of the wing and belted, feeding through a belt drive mechanism and the belts are just loaded straight into the feed straight through. So you go from 60 to 120 alongside this you get to 135 rounds per gun. Rate part you're only going to be having two of these two cannon initially, just those, which doesn't go ammunition as well and that's that's the sweet to have a mixture of faster firing smaller hard to tag the enemy with, but devastating if The first ever Spitfire Squadron, 19 Squadron, was During the Battle of Britain it moved just down Spitfire squadron equipped with cannons. But the problem when it came to fitting cannon armarment machine gun, it has drum-fed ammunition, and in the wing to get it to fit. When these new the punch that the aircraft could deliver. The G forces on the aircraft and the stresses to fail and the guns regularly jammed, two rounds. 19 Squadron persevered with up. So much so that they requested their old have clapped out old Mk 1 Spitfires than Unfortunately they they hadn't got the secret of which only carried 60 grounds in each gun which any G, due to the magazine feed, they stopped. And never have been issued in that state. We were that had obviously never been tested. For a long As such experimentation with cannon Britain. Cannon armament would only a Spitfire by the time we get to the Mk 5 variant. We've moved now to another hanger here at Duxford, airworthy Second World War aircraft. There is it is a very windy day here at Duxford. But we JG891 of Comanche Fighters. From The Mk 5 onwards of different wings. In the case of the Mk 5, First we have the A wing which we've is only capable of carrying eight 303 like here on MH 415. The B wing was only and a 20mm cannon in each wing. And you can a separate fairing for an additional gun and it's And finally we have the C wing, or the Universal of weapons depending on its role either a pair or a combination thereof. The C wing or Universal effort because it sped up manufacturer and This version of the C wing has a pair of Most C wings in service were equipped with much like the b-wing. And part of the reason for able to sight and attack their target initially before they open fire with the hitting power As the war progressed the Spitfire needed threats from the enemy. In the case of the Mk 190. New aircraft needed to be developed and 9 Spitfire onwards the designation A and B were Although a large number of the Mk 9s were still felt that as enemy aircraft were they needed with the 303 bullets and that E wing. A wing that was capable of carrying round. So over to you Jonathan for one final What we have here might look like a giant 303 It's the same design scaled up to the 50 caliber, use today and it is absolutely enormous. At used in virtually all of the US fighters and the gets the ability to mount two of these alongside If we're comparing that to the other Browning much bigger. It's 800 round per minute, right per gun, but you only get two guns so you're great compromise for rate-of-fire and fire-power, piercing, it can be high explosive, it can be aircraft round. So, many would say this is the British went, still compromising, with this and So we've heard about a number of wings the B, the C, and the E, but now have a close look at a very special So we've come through to another hanger here at version of the Spitfire, this time a Spitfire with armament because this is a photographic Very early on in the Second World War aircraft become spies in the sky and the Spitfire as became very useful in this version for the the place of the ammunition and the guns in these short range fighter interceptors to have and take photographs as an aerial camera by the enemy they relied on their speed to evade all Spitfires as they didn't have the weight and Aerial reconnaissance was incredibly developed by all sides, but particularly so photographic reconnaissance that is the backbone campaign. The aircraft behind me is a Spitfire PR company. This particular aircraft was assigned to have flown at least one high level photographic And the names are part of a sponsorship So the aircraft behind me is one of many Spitfires covering the majority of the variants and marks final Spitfire variant the Mk 24. This particular wing, exclusively holding four 20mm cannons. The