The following under a Creative Your support will help MIT to offer high quality To make a donation or from hundreds of MIT courses, at ocw.mit.edu. ALLAN ADAMS: Hi everyone. Welcome to 804 for spring 2013. This is the fourth, and that I will be So I'm pretty excited about it. So my name is Allan Adams. I'll be lecturing the course. I'm an assistant I study string theory to gravity, quantum gravity, Quantum mechanics, this is a Quantam mechanics Is Quantum mechanics I met quantum I just realized that last night. It was kind of depressing. So, old friend. It's also my most powerful tool. So I'm pretty psyched about it. Our recitation instructors And Matt Evans-- yea! Matt's new to the Hi. So he just started which is pretty awesome. And our TA is Paolo Glorioso. Paolo, are you here? Yea! There you go. OK, so he's the person to So just out of curiosity, how Awesome. How many of you all Solid. 6? Excellent. 9? No one? This is the first year we That's a shame. Last year one of was a Course 9 student. So two practical things to know. The first thing is will be on the Stellar website. Lecture notes, homeworks, is going to be done through The second thing notice there are rather I'm wearing a mic. And there are these signs up. We're going to be for the lectures for OCW. And if you're happy If not, just sit on won't appear anywhere on video. Sadly, I can't do that. But you're welcome But hopefully that should in any of the lectures. So the goal of 804 is for you And by learn don't mean to learn although that's an important I mean learn some intuition. I want you to develop for quantum phenomena. Now, quantam It has a reputation It is not a super hard topic. So in particular, I'm totally positive, can It does require It's not a trivial topic. And in order to really the essential thing So the way you develop is by solving problems with new situations, new is what we're It's essential that you work So your job is to devote My job is to convince you that the most interesting do when you leave So you decide who So the workload is not so bad. So we have problem due in the physics box in by 11 AM sharp on Late work, no, not so much. But we will drop one for unanticipated events. We'll return the a week later in recitation. Should be easy. I strongly, strongly to collaborate with other You will learn more, it will be more efficient. Work together. However, write your That's the best way for your understanding. There will be two midterms, and one final. I guess we could have would be a little exciting. We're going to use clickers, We're not going to but they will give to your overall grade. And we'll use them for non-graded but just and the occasional in class This is mostly so that measure of your own conceptual This has been And something I want is that the way I've is not so much based on It's based to the degree about what works actually makes you learn better. And clickers are an So this is mostly a but there will be clickers used. So by next week I need and I need you to register I haven't chosen a And this is discussed There are a set of textbooks, recommend, and a set of others The reason for this is twofold. First off, there that are canonically used One is called wave the mathematical language is The other is a matrix mechanics. They have big names. And the language there And different books and use different languages. And they also try to aim Some books are who are interested in materials are aimed towards people And depending on the book that's suited to you. And every week I'll be providing from each of the So what I really encourage you to work with every that you've got all the This'll give you as as possible without forcing I would discourage So finally I guess is if this stuff you wouldn't need to be here. So ask questions. If you're confused lots of other are also going to be confused. And if I'm not answering your then no one's getting So ask questions. Don't hesitate to interrupt. Just raise your hand, and I And this is true also go to office Ask questions. I promise, there's no such Someone else will So it's a very valuable So before I get going content of the class, are there Yeah. AUDIENCE: You said there ALLAN ADAMS: Lateness policy. No late work is So the deal is given that you know, you'll be and your leg is or a dog's going to jump out next to you, whatever. Things happen. So we will drop your without any questions. At the end of the just dropped your lowest score. And if you turn whatever your lowest If you missed one, then gone. On the other hand, if going to be attacked it's going to be want to have to worry Could we work this out? So if you know ahead But you need to do that The night before doesn't count. OK? Yeah. AUDIENCE: Will we be ALLAN ADAMS: You know, I don't know. I don't think so. I think it's going to happen Yeah. OK. So no, you'll be able to watch Other questions. Yeah. AUDIENCE: Are there that you'd recommend, just ALLAN ADAMS: Oh. That's an interesting question. I don't off the top of my head, I'll pursue it. Because I do know several that I like very know if they're available So send me an email Yeah. AUDIENCE: So how about ALLAN ADAMS: Reading assignments will be listed. There will be equivalent And if there is like if no textbook I'll post a separate reading. Every once in a while, I'll and they'll be available So for example, in your problem will be available on the Stellar website. There are three papers and they are posted and linked from the problem set. Others? OK. So the first lecture. The content of the physics is relatively standalone. It's going to be an introduction going to haunt, through the rest The logic of this on a very beautiful discussion of a book by David Albert and Experience. It's a book for philosophers. But the first few chapters, at a non-technical level. And I encourage you to because they're very lovely. But it's to be sure Ready? I love this stuff. today I want to describe of experiments. Now, to my mind, these are the ever done. These experiments They have been performed, as I will describe I'm going to focus on two I will call them And these are not We'll learn the technical later on in the semester. But to avoid distracting you these things mean, I'm going and hardness. And the empirical fact is that that's ever been observed and no other color. We've never seen There are no green electrons. No one has ever found They're either black, It is a binary property. Secondly, their hardness They're never squishy. No one's ever found They are either hard, Binary properties. OK? Now, what I mean is possible to measures the color In particular, it a box, which I will call a color And the way it works is this. It has three apertures, ports, one which sends and one which sends And the utility of this can be inferred If you find the particle, it is a white electron. If you find the electron Cool? Similarly, we can which again has three And hard electrons and soft electrons Now, if you want, you're free built by putting And you send in an you know, with the ears, and says it's a hard electron, or it's a soft electron, The workings inside And in particular, I will describe in the workings inside And here's something I It can be built in hyper intelligent monkeys It could also be built using It could be done with neutrons. It could be done with all sorts And they all give as I'm about to describe. They all give precisely So it does not But if you want a could imagine putting a monkey monkey. I know, it sounds good. So a key property of these is that they are repeatable. And here's what I mean by that. If I send in an electron, of a color box black, and then if I send it into it comes out black again. So in diagrams, if I send to a color box, and I discover the white aperture. And so here's dot dot dot, and the white aperture, and I send Then with 100% confidence, coming out of the white port will come out the And 0% of the time will it So this is a You notice that it's white. You measure it again, Do a little bit later, OK? It's a persistent property. Ditto the hardness. If I send in a bunch of here is an important thing. Well, send them and I take out the ones And I send them again and they come out soft. They will come confidence, 100% of the time. Never do they come Any questions at this point? So here's a natural question. Might the color and the hardness And more precisely, Might knowing the color infer So for example, so being are correlated properties, you don't know if you're but if you're a That's the definition So is it possible that are similarly correlated? So, I don't know, there like wearing a red shirt and and making it back later after the Correlated, right? Negatively, but correlated. So the question suppose we know that Does that determine So we can answer this So here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to take some That's not random. Random. And I'm going to send And I'm going to take come out the white aperture. And here's a useful fact. When I say random, here's I take some piece of I pull off some electrons, randomly chosen And I send them in. If I send a random pile of useful thing to know, they It's just some Some of them are white, Suppose I send some random into a color box. And I take those which come And I want to know, does So I can do that, check, by then into a hardness box and Hard, soft. And what we find is that 50% on the hardness box come out OK? And ditto if we reverse this. If we take hardness, and take, and send it into a color So if you take a white into a hardness box, you're at chance going to come out hard or soft. And similarly, if you into a color box, to come out black or white. So knowing the hardness any information about the does not give you any cool? These are independent facts, They're not correlated in precisely this Cool? Questions? OK. So measuring the color for the hardness, and gives zero predictive And from that, I will are correlated. So H, hardness, and color are So using these properties of I want to run a few I want to probe these a little more. And in particular, allows us to make predictions, for set a very Now, what we're going to we're going to run some And we're going to And then those are going to lead us to more But let's make sure we first. So for example, let's take and hardness, and One more monkey. So color in, and come out the white aperture. And we send them Hard, soft. And we take those come out the soft aperture. And now let's send these So it's easy to see Black, white. So you can imagine a monkey You look at it, you Here you look at it and And you send it and what do you Well, let's think Anything reaching must have been And we just did the send a white electron 50% of the time it comes of the time it comes So now we take that that comes out the soft been observed to And then we send them into a Well, since colors the natural expectation is that, So our prediction, here is that of those electrons box, 100% should come out white, That seem like a reasonable-- that we're all agreeing. So let's vote. How many people think OK, good. How many people think OK, good. That's reassuring. Except you're all wrong. Right? In fact, what happens is white, 50%. And 50% percent exit black. So let's think about This is really We've said already doesn't predict the hardness. And yet, this electron, measured to be white, now when it comes out white, black, 50-50% of the time. So that's surprising. What that tells you is you as a little ball that has black You can't, because apparently isn't a persistent persistent in the sense it stays black. So what's going on here? Now, I should emphasize if I had changed this to and throwing in a hardness and the color, or if I had Any of those combinations, would have given the Is not persistent in this sense. Apparently the presence tampers with the color somehow. So it's not quite as trivial is Something else is going on here. So this is suspicious. So here's the The first natural move there's some additional that we just that determines whether it box black or white. There's got be some property And so people have spent of time and energy looking and looking with great any sort of feature of which determines which And the shocker is no one's No one has ever found determines which As far as we can tell, Those that flip and indistinguishable at beginning. And let me just emphasize, if like we're not looking, right? If anyone found such a subverting quantum People have looked. And there is none that And as we'll see later on, we can more or less nail such a fact doesn't exist. But this tells us something This tells us, and this that there is something non-deterministic, and random that we observe in a laboratory. There's no way to determine will come out black or Probability in this forced upon us by observations. OK, well, there's another You could say, look, you ran But look, I've met the and look, he's just And he just didn't The boxes are just badly built. So here's the way to No, we've built these things using different technologies, neutrons, using bucky-balls, We've done this experiment, and It is persistent. And the thing that's most only do we get the same results use to run the experiment, we away from 50-50 at all. Within experimental no matter how we we cannot change the 50-50. And to anyone who grew up this should hurt. This should feel wrong. But it's a property And our job is going Rather, your job is going to went through this already. So here's a curious any questions before I cruise? OK. So here's a curious consequence Here's something you can't do. Are you guys old enough for you This is so sad. OK, so here's We cannot build, it is a reliable color We've built a box that We've built a box that tells But you cannot build a what color and hardness So in particular, what It would have four ports. And its ports would say, and one is white and soft, and one is black and soft. So you can imagine to build a color So for example, here's Take your incident send them into a color box. And take those white into a hardness box. And take those is going to be white is going to be white and soft. And similarly, send into the hardness box, and here's soft and back. Everybody cool with that? So this seems to do It measures both the What's the problem with it? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] ALLAN ADAMS: Yeah, exactly. So the color is not persistent. So you tell me this is a soft That's what you told me. Here's the box. But if I put a color the experiment we just ran. And what happens? Does this come out black? No, this is a crappy It's 50/50 black and white. So this box can't be built. And the reason, and I the reason we cannot because our And it's not because although that's true. I was banned from a lab one So I really can't build, And that's not why. We can't because of something something deeper, which is encoded in This can be done. It does not mean anything, It does not mean anything white and hard, because if you and I measure the white, it's going to come out 50-50. It does not mean anything. So this is an important idea. This is an idea which with a term which letters, the And the Uncertainty Principle there's some observable, of a system which with each other in incompatible with each not that you can't know, because hard and soft It is not hard and It cannot be. It does not mean is hard and white That is uncertainty. And again, we're going to come back to But every time you this should be the start for the next few weeks. Yeah. Questions. No questions? OK. So at this point, to think yeah, OK, this and the color of electrons. It's just a weird It's not a weird thing The rest of the world's And no, that's absolutely wrong. Every object in the world If you take bucky-balls, through the analogous and I will show you the but soon, I will When you take through a similar experiment, Now, bucky-balls are huge, But, OK, OK, at saying, dude, come on, So there is a on how you define building, in is used, in principle which to detect gravitational waves. There's a pendulum with a, And that pendulum exhibits We can see these quantum in those mirrors. And this is in breathtakingly done by Nergis Malvalvala, whose but who is totally awesome. She's an amazing physicist. And she can get these kind of kilo mirror. So before you say something just electrons, it's And if I could put you on it would be you. OK? These are properties of The miracle is not that The miracle is that when you they behave like cheese. That's the miracle. This is the underlying OK, so this is so far so good. But let's go deeper. Let's push it. And to push it, I a slightly more elaborate elaborate experimental And for this, I want you to I'm going to need to introduce a Here's a hardness box. And it has an in port. And the hardness box and it has a soft aperture. And now, in addition I'm going to introduce First, mirrors. And what these mirrors do electrons and, change the direction of motion, And here's what I mean If I take one of these for example, a color box. And I take the white and I bounce it off I send these into they come out white It does not change Cool? All it does is Similarly, with it doesn't change the hardness. It just changes the And every experiment we've changes in no way or the hardness by Cool? Just changes the And then I'm going to It's actually a slightly All they do is they join into a single beam. And again, this doesn't You send in a white and you measure the you get a white electron. You send in a black and you measure the color, you Cool? So here's my apparatus. And I'm going to put And I want to run with this apparatus. Everyone cool with Any questions This part's fun. So what I want to to run some simple experiments And the simple experiments They're going to some predictions and And eventually we'd like So the first to send in white electrons. Whoops. Im. I'm going to send And I'm going to and in particular at the So I'm going to send And I'm going to So this is my apparatus. I'm going to measure the And what I mean by is I throw these electrons and see what comes out. So this is experiment 1. And let me draw this, let So you send white into-- so the Mirror, mirror, measuring the hardness out. And the question I want to ask the hard aperture, and how the soft aperture of So I'd like to know what and what fraction come out soft. I send an initial for example I took a color send them into the hardness hard, hard, soft. And what fraction come out come out soft. So just think about And when you have a prediction All right, good. Walk me through your prediction. AUDIENCE: I think ALLAN ADAMS: 50-50. How come? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] have any bearing on hardness. [INAUDIBLE] ALLAN ADAMS: Awesome. So let me say that again. So we've done the experiment, into the hardness that it's non-predictive, 50-50. So if you take a white into the hardness it will come out the hard it will come out Now if you take the one that then you send it up we know that these to the hardness of change the direction of motion. We've already done So you measure the hardness at Hard, because it came out hard, But it only came out because we sent in Yeah? What about the other 50%? Well, the other 50% of the time, and follows what I'll to the mirror, mirror, hardness. And with soft, mirror, you know it comes out soft. 50% of the time it and then it will come out hard. 50% it follows the soft path, Was this the logic? Good. How many people agree with this? Solid. How many people disagree? No abstention. OK. So here's a prediction. Oh, yep. AUDIENCE: Just a question. Could you justify without talking about oh, initially measured to be measured to be soft, we have a hardness box, and together again, so we don't So it's just like into one hardness ALLAN ADAMS: Yeah, that's isn't it? So let's see. We're going to see whether that kind of an But so far we've been given two to the same prediction, 50-50. Yeah? Question. AUDIENCE: Are the electrons Like when you get ALLAN ADAMS: Yeah. This is a very good question. So here's a question look you're into this apparatus. But if I take-- You take two them close to each Pyewww. Right? They interact with each other So yeah, we're being a a bunch of electrons oh, they're independent. So I'm going to do one better. I will send them One electron through And then I will [LAUGHTER] See, you guys laugh, But there's a famous who did a similar experiment And, I mean, the French, So he wanted to do the same But the problem is and you shined it there there are like, 10 at any given moment. And the photons, who knows what right? So I want to send in one is, it's very hard to get So what he did, I kid you not, I don't remember what it on top of glass, I think it Barton, do you So he takes a film, and it such that the photons that are Once in a blue moon to make its way through. Literally, like once or a couple of hours, I think. So it's going to to get any sort of statistics. But he this advantage, that or whatever a photon That means inside takes a pico-second to That's the week I So he does this experiment. But as you can tell, you start and then you wait Side note on this guy, liked So he had six months a beautiful experiment So what did he do? Went on a world Comes back, collects the because indeed, he saw So I was not kidding. We really do wait. So I will take your challenge. And single electron, let it go through the Wait for a week, send No electrons are Just a single electron at a time Other complaints? AUDIENCE: More stories? ALLAN ADAMS: Sorry? AUDIENCE: More stories? ALLAN ADAMS: Oh, I have a hard time resisting. So here's a prediction, 50-50. We now have two So again, let's vote 50-50, how many people? You sure? Positive? How many people don't think so? Very small dust. OK. It's correct. Yea. So, good. I like messing with you guys. So remember, we're going to first where it's easy to predict the results. We've got four experiments And then we'll go on to But we need to go through so we can make an empirical principle argument. So there's the first experiment. Now, I want to run And the second experiment, a little bit louder, Sorry. The second experiment, to send in hard going to measure color at out. So again, let's look We send in hard electrons. And our apparatus with a hard and a soft aperture. And now we're going to measure Color, what have I been doing? And now I want to know what and what fraction We're using lots of OK, so this is not Rocket science isn't Neuroscience is much harder. This is not neuroscience. So let's figure Predictions. So again, think your head, come to your hand when you have an idea. And just because you doesn't mean I AUDIENCE: 50-50 black and white. ALLAN ADAMS: 50-50 I like it. Tell me why. AUDIENCE: It's gone through scrambled the color, and ALLAN ADAMS: Great. So the statement, I'm going to That was an excellent argument. We have a hard electron. We know that hardness If you send a hard electron So every electron incident will transit across It will bounce, it will because we've already The mirrors do nothing So we send a hard electron and what comes out? Well, we've done Hard into color, 50-50. So the prediction is 50-50. This is your prediction. Is that correct? Awesome. OK, let us vote. How many people think Gusto, I like it. How many people think it's not? All right. Yay, this is correct. Third experiment, But we have to go through so humor me for a moment. Third, let's send and then measure the So now we send in white And our apparatus with a hard path Do-do-do, mirror, join together into our out. And now we send those out And our color box, And now the question is and how many come out white. Again, think through the come up with a prediction. Raise your hand when AUDIENCE: Well, earlier so it'll take those ALLAN ADAMS: With Good. AUDIENCE: Yeah. And then it'll go back But earlier when we without the weird path-changing, So I would say still 50-50. ALLAN ADAMS: Great. So let me say that And tell me if extension of what you said. I'm just going to But it's, I think, We have a white electron, We send it into a hardness box. When we send a white we know what happens. 50% of the time it comes 50% of the time it comes Consider those electrons that Those electrons that came will then transit preserving their hardness that these mirrors preserve at a color box. When they end at that electron, the single ends at this color that a hard electron comes out black or We've done that experiment, too. So for those 50% that came Now consider the other 50%. The other half of the time, the will come out the soft aperture. It will then proceed along bounce, not changing and is then a soft electron But we've also done and we get 50-50 So those electrons that came and those electrons that And the logic then leads Was that an accurate statement? Good. It's a pretty OK, let's vote. How many people OK, and how many Yeah, OK. So vast majority agree. And the answer is In fact, all of these, 100% come Never ever does an electron I would like to quote said, because it's actually the is what the hell is going on? So let's the series of to tease out what's So something very all agree, something very We sent a single electron in. And that single electron well, it either came or the soft aperture. And if it came out the if it came out the soft, And it's not 50-50. So we need to improve Hold on a sec. Hold on one sec. Well, OK, go ahead. AUDIENCE: Yeah, it's just So with the second collecting both the ALLAN ADAMS: The second, you AUDIENCE: The one-- are ALLAN ADAMS: Which one, sorry? This guy? Oh, that's a mirror, Oh, thanks for asking. Yeah, sorry. I wish I had a better notation There's a classic-- well, Remember that thing from telling stories? So all this does, it's It's a set of fancy mirrors. And all it does is it this way or an electron coming get sent out in It's like a beam joiner, right? It's like a y junction. That's all it is. So if you will, imagine and you take, I don't and you put him inside. And every time an electron he throws it out that it comes in this way, he And he'd be really ticked at but he'd do the job well. Yeah. AUDIENCE: And this also works if ALLAN ADAMS: This works if this works if you go 14 It works reliably. Yeah. AUDIENCE: Just, but what's the difference and that one? ALLAN ADAMS: Yeah, I know. Right? Right? So the question was, between this experiment Yeah, good question. So we're going to Yeah. AUDIENCE: Well, you're So it's like as you weren't ALLAN ADAMS: Apparently it's right? Because we send in the white we get out that So somehow this is like But how does that work? So that's an And I'm going to build you now tease out what's going on. And you're not going Yeah. AUDIENCE: How were generated in this experiment? ALLAN ADAMS: The generated in the following way. I take a random I rub a cat against a balloon And so I take those and I send them And we have previously take random electrons and and pull out the electrons that if you then send again, they're still white. So that's how I've I could have done it by or rubbing it against me, Any randomly selected sent into a color box, you take the white electrons. AUDIENCE: So how is it different ALLAN ADAMS: Yeah. Uh-huh. Exactly. Yeah. AUDIENCE: Is the difference whether the electron's ALLAN ADAMS: That's a So here's something I'm to say in this class I'm not going to use AUDIENCE: Well, to ALLAN ADAMS: Good. Measure is a very I've used it here get away with not using it. But we'll talk about later on in the course. For the moment, I that it's tempting but dangerous whether you know or don't or doesn't know, for inside knows or doesn't know. So let's try to on just operational questions of what are the things that probabilities. And the reason that it's something There's no ambiguity caught a white electron Now in particular, are such a powerful tool is that you measure the position You get hit by the And by using these boxes we the color or the hardness. And that's the reason So we're inferring from is easy to measure, or you don't, we're that we're interested in. It's a really good Keep it in the And we'll talk about it of the semester. Yeah. AUDIENCE: So what happens and you just take away ALLAN ADAMS: Perfect question. This leads me into So here's the modification. But thank you, that's Here's the modification So let's rig up a I want to go through the and then I'll come And these are great questions. So I want to rig up a small barrier. And here's what this If I put the barrier in, so when I put the barrier it absorbs all electrons and impedes them So you put a barrier in here, no electrons continue through. An electron incident When I say that the is it's not in the way. I've moved it out of the way. Cool? So I want to run And I want to run this to tease out how the electrons So experiment four. Let's send in a I want to do the same And color at out, but now with Wall in soft. So that's this experiment. So we send in white we measure the color as before. And the question is what and what fraction So again, everyone think Just take a second. And this one's a little sneaky. So feel free to discuss it with [CHATTER] ALLAN ADAMS: All right. All right, now that everyone to think through talk through what I'd of these experiments. And then we'll talk about So the first thing I if I send in a white into a hardness pass, I know out hard, and 50% of the If it goes out it's going to get eaten It's going to get So first thing I predict should be down by 50%. However, here's an And this comes to I didn't tell you armlinks in the experiment I 3,000 kilometers long. That's too minor. 10 million kilometers long. Really long. Very long. Now, imagine an this, an initially If we had the barriers out, what do we get? 100% white, right? We just did this So if we did this, we get 100%. And that means an going along the soft Any electron going along the They all come out white. So now, imagine I do this. Imagine we put a barrier in from this path. How does a hard know that I put And I'm going to make it I'm going to insert the after I launched the And when I send in the electron, nor will the electron know, they're not very in place. And this is going to be millions So an electron out It hasn't been there. It just hasn't been there. It can't know. But we know that when without the barrier in there, But it can't possibly know there or not, right? It's over here. So what this tells us is that to be down by 50%. But all the electrons it through must come didn't know that there They didn't go along that path. Yeah. AUDIENCE: Not trying are you using the word know? ALLAN ADAMS: Oh, Thank you, thank you, thank you, I was making fun So in that particular referring to my I was referring tragically Yeah. AUDIENCE: But if they come then wouldn't we know that that electron is which is like a violation? ALLAN ADAMS: Well, here's Imagine it didn't Then the electron would go along the soft path. It would have demonstrably because that's the only And yet, it would still have away, there's a barrier So which one's more And personally, I find this one So the prediction is our because a half of But they should because those that can't possibly know that millions of miles away. So we run this experiment. And here's the In fact, the experimental is down by 50%. But no, not 100% 50% white. The barrier, if we put the If we put the barrier still down by 50%, and How could the electron know? I'm making fun of it. Yeah. AUDIENCE: So I before we ask how it a block in one of the paths, over there, that there were ALLAN ADAMS: Excellent. Exactly. So actually, this in the experiment we did. All we've done here that was existing in the that was disturbing. The presence of those of taking two paths, the way the electron behaved. How is that possible? And here, we're seeing Thank you for that Yeah. AUDIENCE: What if you with color boxes, so that ALLAN ADAMS: Yeah. So the question is basically, and let's make it even more replacing these So here's the thing I strongly encourage you to And in particular, think through hours, and ask me about it. So that's going to be setting And different to have different results. So we're going to have to by case basis. It's an interesting going to take us a bit afar But after we get to the come to my office hours and Yeah. AUDIENCE: So we had a color and we got 50-50, like random. How do you know the boxes work? ALLAN ADAMS: How do I These are the same boxes We tested them over and over. AUDIENCE: How did you first [INAUDIBLE] ALLAN ADAMS: How no other way to build a box want, which is that you send again, and the mirrors Any box that does those is what I will call a There's no other way to do it. I don't mean just because AUDIENCE: Because you you can't actually [INAUDIBLE] ALLAN ADAMS: Oh, sure, you can. You take the electron that That's what we mean AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] ALLAN ADAMS: But to say the electron is white. It's like, how do you know You say, Allan, and I go, what? Right? But you're like, look that's It's like, well, That's how you test. What's your name? I'm Allan. Oh, great, that's your name. So that's what I mean by white. Now you might quibble to call an electron. And I grant you that. But it is nonetheless a property OK, so I've been told from the people on the right. Yeah. AUDIENCE: Is it important knows if the wall ALLAN ADAMS: No. This experiment has been done The French, look, dude. So there's this guy, great experimentalist, And he's done lots of on exactly this topic. And send me an email, and and reviews by him-- and he's a So just send me an email OK, so we're lowish on So what I want to to take the lesson of this that was made a minute ago, that present when we ran this We should have been And I want to think through about the electron, as it transits the apparatus. The thing is, at this point And here's the reason. Consider a single electron And I want to think about the while all walls are out. So it's this experiment. Consider the single electron. We know, with total confidence, that every electron out the white aperture. We've done this experiment. We know it will come out white. Yes? Here's my question. Which route did it take? AUDIENCE: Spoiler. ALLAN ADAMS: Not a spoiler. Which route did it take? AUDIENCE: Why do ALLAN ADAMS: I'm asking That's why you care. I'm the professor here. What is this? Come on. Which route did it take? OK, let's think through Grapple with this Let's think through First off, did it take So as it transits through, transiting through did it take the hard path These are millions of miles This is not a Did it go millions of or millions of miles Did it take the hardness path? Ladies and gentlemen, did AUDIENCE: Yes. ALLAN ADAMS: Well, we by putting a wall And if we put a wall then we know it because no other except those that went Correct? On the other hand, if it it would come out and 50% of the time black. But in fact, in this apparatus It cannot have No. Did it take the soft path? Same argument, No. Well, this is not looking good. Well, look, this was suggested. Maybe it took both. Maybe electrons are that split in two, and part of goes the other. Maybe it took both paths. So this is easy. We can test this one. And here is how I'm Oh, sorry. Actually, I'm not So we can test this one. So if it took both paths, here's You should be able to put and you'd be able got half an electron on one on the other, or one on each side and So this is the thing if you said it went both. So here's what we'll do. We will take detectors. We will put one along along the soft path. We will run the experiment whether, and ask whether, we see half and The answer is you always, of the paths. You never see half an electron. You never see a You see one electron It did not take both. You never see an electron split No. Well, it didn't didn't take the soft There's one option left. Neither. Well, I say neither. But what about neither? And that's easy. Let's put a barrier And then what happens? Nothing comes out. So no. So now, to repeat an from one of the So here's the I want you to think about this. Take this seriously. Here's the world we're facing. And when I say, here's I don't mean just I mean the world around you, here is what they do. When you send them through every single object that does not take the hard path, it doesn't take both, and And that pretty much of logical possibilities. So what are electrons doing when How do you describe that You can't say it's can't say it's on the and it's not on neither. What is it doing halfway So if our experiments and to the best of our they are, and if our arguments then they're doing are doing something we've something we've never something for which have good words in Apparently, empirically, electrons have a way of being that we're used And so do molecules. And so do bacteria. So does chalk. It's just harder to So physicists have a name And we call it superposition. Now, at the moment, is code for I have no Usage of the word superposition An initially white electron with the walls out is nor both, nor neither. It is, in fact, in a and of being soft. This is why we say this electron is some Not because our boxes are crude, though our boxes are It's deeper. Having a definite color means but rather being in a and being soft. Every electron exits a hardness But not every electron It can also be a superposition The probability measure it to be on precisely what For example, we know in the superposition then there are even odds measured be hard or to be soft. So to build a better than I have no idea is going to require And that language is And the underpinnings are the topic of the course. And developing a of this idea of you have to do over Now, if all of this well, that shouldn't Your intuition was developed from tigers, and catching of the toaster, all of and with so much energy that As a friend of you don't need to know quantum However, when we work in we work with atoms, when we work in the regime of very small objects, your intuition It's not that the electrons-- strongly enough-- it is not The electrons do This is what they do. And it violates your The thing that's surprising behave like this. Lots of electrons behave And that's the goal beyond your daily experience and to develop an intuition And we'll start in I'll see you on Thursday.