(dramatic music) - What really struck me was that it wasn't at all about chess. It's not about a game. It's about the cost of genius. - It's a story about how when you have a very you harder to understand. - I think she looks to chess - Although it tells that story about a child genius It's actually still more about her demons. (dramatic music) (people chattering) - Scott sent me the book And I devoured the book in about an hour. I fell in love with Beth immediately and there was a really strong kinship. - This character is And I was fascinated, I'd never read a character Somebody who was so brilliant and in a world that she not a part of. - Are you sure you want to do this? - I'm sure. - We don't have a women's section. - Back in the 1950s, there to chess. They weren't given the opportunities, Beth trying to make her way in world is something that's - Tevis was writing with an understanding of the next century almost. It's quite brilliant. - How old are you? Nevermind. Don't answer that. It'll just depress me. - I'm 36. - She's so centered in that she doesn't necessarily think of herself as a woman first. And I do think that because you're experiencing the sixties through her in the way that she just automatically - Am I good enough now? - To tell you the truth of it child, you're astounding. - [Crew Member] Marker. - And action. Almost 10 years ago, up the book to me as something We briefly flirted with And Allan Scott had written and nothing ever came of it. It was very hard to get a movie Then right after I finished &quot;Godless&quot;, I had this revelation and I said to him, what about &quot;The Queen's - The overriding interest I've always had is to make it powerfully emotional. And I think when you extend something, you get the time to follow all kinds of paths and all kinds of seams. - What I really wanted to in turning it into a mini series for me, was making sure that what you're - Someday you're going to be all alone. So you need to figure out - She's come from a home that has left her feeling very unstable. She doesn't really know - What's that game called? - [Mr Scheibel] It's called chess. - Will you teach me? - I think Beth's first true It's with somebody who not only her gifts, but Also somebody who can tell her, no. - You have resigned the game. - You didn't tell me that in the rules. - It's not a rule, it's sportsmanship. - And then I think she's with Jolene, and that both understanding that and yet have come from - Most of us are lifers, - I would say she's kind in her own little way. They're not adopted for the So they kind of do need in that place. - [Carer] Greens to even your disposition, orange and browns for Take them both. - In the early sixties, late fifties, it was very common to give children in orphanages tranquilizers So, yeah, she becomes and sedatives when she's nine. - Well, the trick with addiction, with drinking or drugs or anything, is making sure that you empathize with the character and still A sleight of hand for There's a long sequence And that was as funny as it is harrowing. - Elizabeth. (glass crunching) - As she gets older, she She discovers alcohol when she's about 15. (Beth coughing) - It's good. - And consummates that relationship. (upbeat music) - Anybody who's dealing with problems of addiction is their own worst enemy. She keeps self-destructing along the way. - There's a moment when she's been on a particularly tough bender, and she meets the first who's another girl called - I knew you were going places. And that meant something to me. - That whole exchange was and rough to do because I just had to be in this state of everything And you looked up to me and Like she was just, she was an angry bird. - I'm worried about you. - What on earth for? - For me, the whole story Is she going to lose hold of herself? Or is she going to be able to make it? - She shows the assurance That's national recognition, dear. - She's also addicted to winning. (dramatic music) She's addicted to feeling - Chess is the one thing she That on that board, she's in charge. Whenever she's moving those - I win. - I have every confidence. - You do feel for the relationship and Beth have together. And Mari played her with deep empathy, and I think sympathy. - For the role of Mrs Wheatley, I had been telling Bill Horberg, that it's someone like Marielle Heller. And Bill said to me, why And as we can see she's extraordinary. - Things are beginning to happen. - Beth is very obsessive, full stop. Like I think that is just something that is intrinsic to her. - Harry, it'll be check and the knight trades, can't you see that? - No, I can't. I can't find it that fast. - Well, I wish you could. - When your brain works that quickly, it can drive you a bit mad? But I also think that she is aware that her gift makes her special. - [Reporter] Sometimes people there aren't any. - What does that have to do with me? Well, creativity and psychosis (camera clicking) - I do think she's like that she's a bit crazy. - Beth has visions of seeing - This is in the book. She looks up to the ceiling and imagines the position - Do you ever go for games in your head? I mean, play all the way through them? - Doesn't everybody? - The person that she feels closest to, I think in terms of the is actually, Benny. - There's a little bit of even though they're But I think he enjoys and into other people's heads. And he sees that in Beth. - I don't even know if I'm good enough. - You're the best there is. - His reassurance kind of But I do think that she's am I insane? Or am I a genius? - And I've been watching your games. You attack like Alekhine. - You can reach for your best, if other people see it as well. And I think Benny when he sees it, and finds that - And action! To make chess cinematic is, is impossible. And I realized, I want the chest that we do but I really am focusing on and the players themselves. Beth Harman in particular, and the idea for me visually - I found that the strongest on people's faces in their reaction, even if you don't understand chess, you know the seriousness, and the drama that they're going through. - I resign. (dramatic music) (people chattering) - Steven Meizler is quite very little light and very natural light, and finding little spots - Sweet dreams. - The show really shifts Every time I got to go onto a new set, I was always completely blown away by the way that it looked. (dramatic music) - Uli Hanisch is a genius. I came to Berlin because We've shot Mexico city here in Las Vegas, and Paris, Russia, pieces of New York and Lexington, Kentucky. - Well, now. - What Beth does, is traveling and playing And so we have, like hotel rooms, airplanes, hotel lobbies, restaurants, ballroom kind of situation, So it was our target to- - To repeat but- - Make it different. - Yeah, exactly. - I asked for a pleasant room, and I believe they gave me one. (Mrs Wheatley laughing) - This here is a pretty it's the Haus Cumberland, and we turned it into a hotel in Paris. - What will you have Must be special if it is your only one. - Cut, awesome. That's a cut. For me, every set I would walk on would be a fantastic place to shoot. And the whole crew would come on the set, and you would hear 50 people, a hundred people oohing and Benny's apartment was interesting because we shot the exterior in Toronto. And then Uli designed that was amazing. And right away, I started because of so many good things in the set. - [Anya] I love it. Oh, it's so good. - The cinematography, the costumes, the production design, they're all for me, part of the same thing. We'd spend a lot of time is at in the story. - We had so much fun coming because again, we got - When I first read the script, I had in my mind the Beth was a redhead, funnily enough, Anya also felt this. - When I first read it, I was like, she needs to have red hair because I want her to be even if she doesn't want to be, and he had thought the exact same thing. So we just started off It was all wigs. I couldn't, I was very but I just couldn't, you know, there are days when we were going between five different ages in a day, and that's just not So we had baby Beth, we had sexy kitten, and we had glamor pus. - To sell the age, the And then we slowly add until you start seeing her older. She basically gets more So her eyes become sexier. - [Man] Wow! - [Anya] Thanks. - Beth has a thing for flair. As you can see in the show, she likes the finer things in life. She starts to really, really like clothes. - With the costume her wardrobe is just amazing. She would have a palette and the different wardrobe But more than that, we'd spend a lot of time is at in the story. - In the beginning, Beth is always determined by other people. By her mother, or And later on she's alone and She has power being feminine. - As we go forward, you know, she's more and more glamorous. There's a point where she dresses up like a pop musician that she sees on TV for a brief period of time. - She experienced it. Searching for cool is difficult because the cool doesn't exist. And her search for coolness, is actually her search for herself. - At the very end, when she's kind of finally comfortable in the world of chess, Gabriele found this with this white hat from Moscow. And you realize she looks - What's fascinating is that she puts on all of - Who the hell are you? - It is incredibly sad because that she just doesn't feel - You are very beautiful. - I don't see myself that way. - Then you are blind. - It's not a physical loneliness It's an emotional and intellectual one. - I think this is the is becoming more prominent, because you can explore these richer, more complex stories. - Having the opportunity to and not just see all of the wins, but all of the hard that it takes to get to the wins. I think hopefully that just for somebody who, I selfishly really, really care about. (audience applauding)