Ford of Europe could do no wrong in the 1960s out to be their crowning achievement. While moving, the Mini only sold 5M cars worldwide 5 times that amount in a shorter period of scheme of things? Well, let's look at the At number 10 with 5M sold is the LTD, a staple the American family saloon of the 80s and is the Exploder, sorry the Explorer, at 8.2M car for the 21st century. Number 7 isn't transports the world's stuff with almost it, click on link above! Just ahead on sales 1960's American muscle car that's gone with 9.3M sold. But now we see just how influential 5 the Ford Focus at 13.6M. At number 4, yes, would have topped the charts - the Model was a phenomenal figure. But just recently size but thoroughly modern, the Fiesta with subject of this video, the Escort with 24M Focus has been around for 22 years it still But at number 1 and way out in the lead is Ford F-series truck at 41M. this is the phenomenal Ford Escort Story! (music) The Ford Anglia had been a big success for the Second World War, it had been a basic, by the 1960s. With more and more people buying was more important than ever that Ford's Reducing costs were key to selling a car more essentially the same car for the different between Ford of Germany and Ford of Britain Anglia update would be the second European by Ford of Britain. Ford Anglia update but as Ford started seeing they renamed it to the "Escort" - a so many names Ford used, this one was recycled the Anglia in the late 1950s. standard on larger cars at the time. All gears driven a car without synchromesh you'll and pinion steering for the first time that reduced the turning circle to boot. Ford would keep the interior fresh for long drives. American cars, and the new car would do the its trademark dog bone grille, and a Coke A similar shape would be used by the Cortina During the design, Ford were careful to keep the retail price in line with that of the all of those happy customers. And they were increase over the old car. fast - it got to 60 in 22 seconds, but fast They wanted a car that would start in the to go for a reasonable price, and the Escort seconds faster to 60 than the outgoing basic of the 1.1L Kent engine. 1960s car that was taking the world by storm would duke it out at the top of the UK charts gain traction on the continent where German their Renaults and Italians their Fiats. layout to the last Ford Anglia, Ford had tuned corners. Reviewers at the time called it a to put a sporty engine in the car and go racing, put cash behind motor racing so it could be competition. say, "spartan" compared to what drivers up from the base model had the luxury of rubber model got carpet and a cigar lighter! But was a well-mannered, easy to drive, reliable The car would be offered in 1.1L, 1.3L and gearboxes, although none could be described the 1.3L twin cam that boasted a sub 10 second saloon and an estate, giving a degree of practicality Ford had been working with Lotus to make competition switched to the Escort as their main motorsport than the Cortina while still allowing a 1.6L to the its Elan. But soon Ford switched over with Cosworth with their souped-up 16V version known as the RS1600 and it would go on to victories came in the London to Mexico rally special edition to celebrate the victory. the 2-door saloon and estate. France and Italy but this made for a very slow car. A year in Australia as the saloon and van but unfortunately to be produced around the world as well. Initially to Germany and started up in Ireland, Australia, Never one to miss a trick, Ford introduced the fastest car of the bunch, also cost a looked like an RS1600 or Mexico and used the interior it cost just PS940. In 1973 a road Escort was launched as the RS2000, and although more well-mannered through the bends and the way to work in the morning. 2M Escorts, the first Ford model to do so Ford wanted to get customers excited for the off production lines in December and went While the first generation was developed by be a joint European development as were pretty it would be given the decidedly British codename exterior, it was little more than a reskin similar to what they'd done with the Capri. been introduced on the first generation model of the era, the estate and van versions retained The model naming would change, starting with the base "Popular" trim level, then "L", be the luxurious "Ghia", just a year after on the Ford Granada. And the Escort Ghia was as standard! spec models would remain as Ford continued the engine and chassis to keep it ahead of year from 1975 to 1979, along with the 1979 engine. And those rallying Escorts would bring and this foreshadowed the boxy style the next The estate still wasn't available in Australia, trim levels to try to make up for it. The 1.3L as well to comply with emissions regulations, But the Escort wasn't popular in Australia to Ozzy sentiments, and cheap Japanese small Production in Israel was joined by partial the small 1.1L engine was left on the side-lines. the One Six Double O Sport being the most Production in Australia, New Zealand and South Mazda 323-based Ford Laser. And hold that The Escort continued trading paint at the the Cortina. To keep it selling, Ford kept updated steering wheel and the usual trick a carpet interior for the Popular and a heated Goldcrest and Harrier special editions were off the dealer's forecourt. for a bit. Well it shouldn't, but as you'll wanted fuel efficient cars ever since the They'd introduced the Ford Fiesta in both But with Detroit's answer to the Escort, decided the next generation Escort would be development costs. And when I say world car, of the world who decided to go the Ford Laser we're going to get back to it. front wheel drive layout, the third generation and space. And it would be the first front was a completely new design, with a hatchback might of Volkswagen's Golf and Japanese sales on both sides of the Atlantic. But although shape, a 1.6L CVH engine and the name Escort to call it the "Erika", but let's not to do with each other. It's like saying are the same. Yes, they're both called Birmingham, who probably drove around in Escorts, but and as a proud Brummy I'm allowed to make heck they're saying in either place. in 1980 with the third generation Escort. but despite that boxiness the drag factor to that Aeroback bustle. And with new engines It all added up to a winning combination that stiff competition from the Fiat Panda and Escort to the top of the UK sales charts where, 1 selling car until the Escort hit the rocks The usual line up of engines from 1.1L to an automatic wasn't available until Ford the old-fashioned rear leaf spring suspension setup. Despite this, the suspension came in harsh and unforgiving ride. rallying, to continue their domination, but 4WD Audi Quattro sweeping titles, Ford started in 1984. It was powered by a 1.8L Cosworth version, and up to 450hp while racing. road-going car. With the Golf GTI becoming it with the 95hp XR3 with a 0-60 time just injected XR3i in 1982 and with that it got 1980s, the XR3i, and the smaller Fiesta XR2 Ford did make an RS version in limited numbers, 1984, but it came in for criticism, and with new Granada and RS200, it was the XR3i that This is also when my association with the Gold 1.3L Escort, which actually looked silver. speed crash involving all three lanes of the and my sister were unharmed, and a couple totalled car back on the road as I was driving still being driven in 1996. the automatic gearbox, an economical diesel But that phenomenal fuel economy meant anaemic as the Ford Orion. With the booted Ford Cortina this would give customers who loved saloons in Argentina and Brazil, with some Brazilian local laws. They also launched a budget Escort Ford had been customising the Escort platform a small van. By 1983 the Escort was so common open top Cabriolet versions to wannabe Yuppies, It's amazing how Ford could sell essentially people. well, especially in the UK where 1 1/2M of them in 1986 was just a tweak on that winning formula. more than a reskin of the third generation year on year, it was of course an improved codename was "Erika-86", playing on the generation car. The styling took cues from ABS for the first time along with an updated models. The Orion got a similar makeover. to keep it competitive. And competition was the Astra, Volkswagen updating the Golf, and rear bustle. quantities around Europe and South America. collided with the XR3i cabriolet. But with the rigidity to handle tight twisting roads. a larger, improved 1.8L diesel engine. Everything late 80's as they prepared for the fifth very wrong... American Escort fair? It debuted just a month a Mercury Lynx version. It was a car for the sophisticated man about town who's just version it was both a hatchback and a station at the time it used a lot of chrome and occasionally The 1.6L engine it shared with the European would add a 1.9L engine, and there would be be joined by a 2.0L Mazda diesel in 1984. success. If you believe Ford's marketing and 1988, but that's likely stretching the it was indeed one of the top selling passenger While Europe got the sporty XR3, North America 11.2 seconds, it wasn't going to set the in 1984, did manage to get that down to 9 from the same platform, the EXP or Mercury In 1985 the North American Escort got a facelift, dropped. But sales were starting to decline Ford needed a new model and looked to its was the 1987 Mercury Tracer, replacing the and Tracer were replaced in 1991 by a car Mazda-derived Ford Laser that had been sold And Ford Laser's in those regions would Ford Escort and Mercury Tracer. So, you could car, if you don't include Europe! small Ford Taurus that was popular at the another crack at making a sporty 2-door coupe a much improved 0-60 time of 7.4s. But none of the 1980s as customers moved towards SUVs, Escort bowed out in 2003. Escort. When we left it, Ford was riding high and his dog buying one. With this Ford did 1990. The suspension was simplified from being existing engines were carried over from the be ready for another couple of years. The ever before, even on the base models. a heavier car. Around 100kg heavier. Imagine throw 100 bags of sugar into the back of one was a major disadvantage to the car, and it but in handling with the inferior torsion reviews, and they weren't fans of the bland as the most popular car came to an abrupt The new number one was the Fiesta, and Ford scenes to make it right. Big Car - to settle an argument that's been had a rather amazing 1989 red 4th generation a rather awful 1991 black 5th generation Escort. on why our car was the best, and you get to My 1989 4th generation was the culmination by the bucketload because it was so good. - the latest version of the long running While we were going out, I had the chance the fifth generation wallow on twisty A roads, Really? Have you ever tried to keep a black beats the pants off any Escort from 1991! disagree, because I drove my cute adorable and it was the best car that I have ever owned. my argument is quite simply my car had everything Jazzed! And in addition... That's for the you had about my car! Are we going to have to hit you with cotton balls! So that's everything that your car had, right? But in so it really drove with comfort, and security, taste, comme moi, would really appreciate! obviously way better than the 5th generation, me?!? What a baby! suspension and steering were improved, and fuel injection standard on all petrol engines. bags of sugar in weight, so the more powerful weight around. Ford's hard work did the of the UK sales charts. even an Escort. The 4x4 Escort RS Cosworth Created out of Ford's attempt at making the road car was fierce. Its 224hp 2.0L Cosworth it failed to take the rally wins Ford wanted, many imported into the USA by third parties. booted Escort being simply known as the Escort in 1994 after a lacklustre showing with the In South America the Escort was now the Mazda-323 the fifth generation European Escort was still what it was called, you would never guess. Pointer, and the Volkswagen Logus. Yes, that's Ford did with VW in the 1980s to form AutoLatina South America at the time. VW and Ford would there. as the mid-cycle sixth generation refresh more like the larger Mondeo with its oval plastics with the old car, the interior quality improved to keep up with the competition, they'd ever see on an Escort - the Escort But despite the refresh the car was starting UK public found they preferred the smaller top the UK sales charts. But Ford couldn't three selling cars in the UK. car when the Ford Focus was launched in 1998, It was a big step change in design and execution received. But that didn't stop Ford from Focus as a cheaper model, to get that little the Escort van remained in production until a resurgence in New Zealand, replacing the before also being replaced by the Focus. It until 2004. was written into history, or so we all thought. video, which has turned into the longest one for reusing names, like it had from the Ford pass again in 2014 when Ford used the Escort on the second generation Ford Focus. So Ford alongside the 3rd generation Focus. Again production cost. has spent much of its life as the top selling continued to ride high with the Focus which But it would be the Escort that millions have A big thank you to all my Patrons for supporting videos, or to appear in the credits, please below from just $1 or 80p a month and hit videos. Thanks for watching and see you in