- Not a happy environment. We all know that the institutions, the rules of the road are not aligned with the balance of power that we are experiencing today. And when that happens, you You can reform your existing institutions, change them to more You can build new institutions that make sense in a new environment, or you can go to war. Now we're doing all three, but our priorities are And that is not sustainable. I want to talk a little as we head closer to unsustainability, but also talk about some And I want to start with I don't want us to pass it over and it makes sense for And it's a moment of congratulations to the collective of Japanese who just received the Nobel Peace Prize. (attendees applauding) It is essential and it's badly overdue for us to recognize the suffering and to honor the courageous work that they have all done over many decades to rid our world of the one weapons that could destroy us. That is the right place to begin today because today's lack of global leadership, this G-zero world order is getting worse. And we see this over a real worry over the future of nuclear weapons. At a time of expanding war, the threat from these that can never be used again, is dramatically on the rise. Russia is today threatening the use of so-called tactical A warning that my own White House considers frighteningly plausible. North Korea, which has become is sending thousands of and they're flexing their When's the last time you irreversible denuclearization? It's gone. It's gone. The expanding war in the Middle East and Israel Prime Minister Netanyahu's winner take all approach to winning it create the clearest possible incentive for Iran to race to the finish line in its nuclear weapons program, maybe with some help from Russia. And if I'm South Korea and I'm and I'm seeing the level of uncertainty of commitments from the United am I talking about ridding No, I'm talking about It's not where we want to go. We have to recognize just how dangerous today's conflicts are becoming. None of the major conflicts are presently heading towards None of them. Ukraine is on a path to partition, splitting it in two. The Palestinians are on a path to be removed from their territory, and once again, forgotten. US-China relations are This is our present trajectory. Our geopolitical environment And yet at the same time, today, we also face the in human history. The current wave of technological change offers humanity the best and teach, and heal, and learn and imagine, and create, and build a more on unprecedented scale. So, a warning and a hope. It's like Pandora's box. Today, I want to focus first on hope because I want to end with disaster. And I want to talk about to protect our chance to reinvent the world in years to come. So first, despite what you globalization is far from over. A visitor from another would be very impressed of human progress in recent decades. And the tools that we have created for a global middle class, which today is more than half The number of those is growing by more than a 20 years ago, just 1 billion people, barely 16% of the world's Now it's 2/3. International air travel more people can travel, and global trade continues to increase despite headwinds that we can talk about. This human progress is going to continue because developed and developing countries are continuing to depend on it for the growth that their Even in the most advanced technology where the United States and China are now taking a more zero sum approach, globalization is stabilized by an effective balance of Neither side is happy about American companies today are on the shift from human The United States has the venture capital, the cutting edge thinkers, the the access to large supplies of state-of-the-art semiconductors, and the cross-cutting development that comes from a business culture of competition and collaboration. US tech companies also have relationships across different sectors with some of the world's And that ecosystem has in artificial intelligence. China, on the other hand, is leading the way towards Investment at global scale in nuclear and wind and solar and electric vehicles and batteries and the and the access to all that you need for global production. And that is why by 2030, China will have far more renewable energy, both at home and for global export, than its leaders even Now, the relationship we talk about as managed decline. Their stabilized relations, which have actually gotten a over the last year, is not reversing that longer-term It doesn't matter who wins doesn't matter what that long-term trend is still in place. But as with the security that most major countries seek between the two great powers, American leadership on AI and China's lead on post-carbon energy, which are the two technologies for every country in every sector is keeping other countries If politicians and decide that Americans cannot buy Chinese-made electric and instead that Americans have to buy expensive, poorly made electric vehicles, we are wealthy enough to But the rest of the world is not going to follow Other governments in Asia, are going to work with the They're going to partner with China to move beyond hydrocarbon energy to develop solar and wind and next generation nuclear power. If we want to work with as Americans, fine. If we don't, it's not going to stop them. They have to. They can't afford not to. Now the Chinese see risks that are created by the quickening development in similar ways. American companies are developing state-of-the-art AI innovations that are making the world and more efficient, better informed and these tools are unlocking potential in everyone who uses them on a scale we've never seen before. So, what happens in China when the Chinese government decides that their own people can't be trusted with those tools, right? Because Beijing doesn't to detail the histories or even of the Chinese For any Chinese citizen that They don't want reams of Chinese data going to the mainly American companies that create the most powerful Hallucinations are fine in China, but they have to be sponsored Chinese leaders do not want It's a very different story. Now, just like Americans can refuse to have access to the Beijing can refuse to give that are most important for just like they banned American social media They can keep doing that, but the rest of the for less effective AI. They want access to the And you see in the Gulf States, and you see in Kenya and increasingly across and in South America and those deals are going to happen. So in other words, we are seeing a bilateral geopolitical structure that would fatally is becoming a near impossibility. Many in Washington and Beijing act like they fear global interdependence, but most of the world demands it. And it's not possible in 2025 for the next American You can't do it. And that is why despite all the media hype and all the political anger, we are going to continue to see globalization in the world today. The most important trend that has gotten us to where we are is not about to fail. If there's a single piece of good news that comes out of my (attendees laughing) But I have one more. I want to talk specifically that I think deserve our attention. Large language models are and interpret and access and large quantitative are transforming how we Machine learning algorithms are already revolutionizing patient care with early detection of disease, personalized treatment plans, and drugs. In education, students around the world are getting individualized assessment and instruction and feedback. They're helping industrial organizations and transportation fleets and reduce downtime. It's helping farmers more Adding AI processes to robotics can help self-operating robots that revolutionize entire industries. These are just a small number of the literally thousands that we are already rolling out around the world. And that is why we are on track to build a new globalization, one that moves beyond the in lifting billions of When I think about the last 50 years, globalization has radically enriched a small percentage of and it's created a global middle class, but a lot of people haven't had access to that infrastructure. AI is absolutely going a even smaller percentage of the world, and we can focus on that and But the people that were left behind suddenly are going to because they'll get access to the education and the medicine. They'll get access to the even if they are off the grid. If you're India of 1.5 billion people, 50 million living like Europeans, 400 million living like Indonesians, a billion living like that top 50 million is going But that bottom billion They can get literate, they can have lifespans, they can work in in And we're going to see That's not just progress, that is a revolution and one that extends the promise of global development into the lives of individual human beings. So if you put these two things together, I'll quickly say, I think everyone that talks It's overstated. The United States and China are not capable in the near-term of fighting a new cold war. Not only because their and it's very hard to but also because the United States is massively politically distracted with its own internal challenges. And if you think that's bad now, I mean, Blinken is now his How many has he made in Is it two? You know, you talk to American leaders, I go to the White House, how much time is actually spent on dealing with the long-term when you've got these wars going on? Now think about what's going to happen after the US election, irrespective of who wins, just to get through it, just to recreate a stable The United States does not need or want the kind of that a cold war would require. May happen long-term, The Chinese may be looking from their perspective. They right now have the You talk to China about and they say 2027 is no longer the date that they feel like Could be later. They don't talk about peak China anymore, they can't do that, but they do internally now push back the date that they believe that China will surpass the United States in GDP by five years. So, if the Americans are into just keeping China more stable, the Chinese are focusing on just getting the economy going again. These are not two sets of leaders that are bent on block I mean, maybe it would be helpful but the reality is that the things that we've been most I don't know, 20, 30 years. In fact, we sat down whether or the Munich Security Conference, everyone would say, &quot;The is the US-China relationship.&quot; The Thucydides' Trap. Are we going to war? It turns out what we should is an absence of leadership. What we should most be doing nothing in the Middle We should most be doing nothing with Russia or North Korea, despite their influence. It turns out it is the that is our concern. It is not the muscular move by the Americans and the Chinese. No, that's interesting. That's unsettling for Japan but it's a different problem than the one you thought you had. So, if that's the good news, if those are the things I wanted to spend some time talking about that I think you have to worry less about, now, I want to turn to the places that we need to worry about much more. And here, of course, I'm in the Middle East, in Ukraine, and in the United States, the war between the which is not a lot of fun. We remain at serious risk of failing to realize the gains that come with all of these opportunities because we lack global leadership. My country, the United States, has abdicated its responsibility It is by far the most important friend in the world of Israel and it has used none of to bring that conflict to an end. Not sitting on the sidelines, but actively supporting that is destroying the Palestinian and now Lebanese people. I'm not talking about giving up on Israel, I'm not talking about stopping Israel from having the right to defend itself. No, I'm talking about using any influence to try to create stability. I mean, the Americans say a lot of things. They want a two-state solution, What have they done? And the answer is nothing. China has abdicated its the Chinese say we want They say we're friends we support their territorial integrity. In Kazan today, Xi Jinping What is he doing to try to What's he doing with Putin? He's actively supporting Russia's capacity to expand an illegal invasion and to bring itself to the and the rest of the world, well, we're just getting used to a higher level of instability. So let me start with where It's really not hard to see Ukraine lacks the manpower and firepower to take back their territory. And I don't believe that Vladimir Putin is going to give back I don't see a magical third option, which means that without a peace deal, Ukraine is eventually even if you Ukraine and the new borders that Russia claims. And the real question is can expect a brighter future with deeper integration And that's possible, but it's hard. Ukraine can still bring the even if the unwillingness to offer genuine concessions means that a settlement that is But the ability of Ukraine to achieve that depends on how much diplomatic, economic, and security support that Ukraine receives from its allies in the United States and Europe. On diplomacy, will the into the European Union? Because even if the eventual answer is yes and they voted to say yes, the effort will take many years and the process will only get harder as populist and nationalist and Russia-friendly political gain more ground across the EU. And Ukraine's bid in the to the union's membership because otherwise the size would immediately make every a net contributor to the EU budget. Now then there's the economics, The damage that Russia's just and critical infrastructure has dramatically increased That's making it much harder for Ukraine just to sustain an economy, And this is happening at a time when the United States and Europe are less willing and less capable to continue financial support You've seen Trump's already If that means he has to he'll stop funding of Ukraine. Even under Harris, we're going Given its own budgetary problems, even Germany has cut by half their funding for Ukraine for 2025. This all makes it more to come to a deal, but that Putin is going to negotiate, which brings back the security question, and that's been unresolved Will Ukraine be invited to join NATO? And that question has as it becomes clear that Ukraine to fend off Russia or This is the area where Western support for Ukraine is most uncertain because Ukraine's membership in NATO is such a bright red line for Putin. So it's hard to imagine that you can make it happen the Russia NATO conflict. Now, US and European leaders recognized that the high watermark for economic and defense support for Ukraine and that makes it more urgent to prod them to negotiate a ceasefire. But the only way to make is to give him hard security guarantees like Ukrainian membership in NATO in return for accepting that Even if that offer is made, Russia has a veto because and Russia is still launching then if Ukraine's a member of NATO, NATO's at war with Russia. Even though it's still a constructive step because the trade of membership for land can earn international support, that could put more pressure So, I would say over the continued diplomatic support, strong bet. Continued economic support, likely but it's going to diminish. Formal security support though not impossible. And in the meantime, we should expect that Russian advances at great human cost are going to continue and we should expect more and real risks of military escalation. Russia's sovereign assets stay frozen and are going to be devoted to Ukrainian reconstruction over time so they get seized. Western sanctions on Russia stay in place, and the G7 remains in an undeclared hybrid war against Russia. Putin gets older, gets more isolated, gets further removed from and more prone to impulsive mistakes. Russia's alliance with both rogue states committed will grow stronger and less predictable. So in other words, even if we can imagine that the Russia-Ukraine war might become more stable, Russia's broader struggle is becoming more dangerous. Now to the Middle East, which is exactly the opposite dynamic. There's no outcome of the war in Gaza that is stabilizing for I can't see one. But over the longer-term, the regional and the global challenges are probably less escalatory Israeli airstrikes are continuing but the Gaza war is almost over. The Israelis are running out of targets. I mean, they've killed the leadership, they've blown up the tunnels, they've hit the arms caches. I mean, they've killed over 40,000 people, a lot of them are militants, but the numbers have not gone up radically in the last couple months. The problem now is the humanitarian issue. The problem is these people can't live but the war at some point, whether or not there's a ceasefire, Israel is going to announce to major military operations, and they will still reserve against targets as they see them, but that's where we are. Most of the troops have They're now focused on So, it's true that a ceasefire And I'd be stunned to see not that it matters at this point. And the plight of the but the fight in Gaza Now, it's hard to foresee any outcome here that is in any way acceptable for the Palestinians or their leaders. The war has radicalized large numbers of Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank who have no economic prospects and Israeli settlers in even more occupied So no matter what happens, Palestinians are more to follow leaders who call for revolutionary action against Israel. And the risk of deadly in the region and more and I think that will be generational. The war has also hardened towards the Palestinians. It's inconceivable to me Netanyahu or otherwise, would consider in the near future the creation of a Palestinian state. And there's no evidence that of Israelis that took to the streets to call for Netanyahu's ouster would back a two-state solution. But the outlook for the is more positive. The Abraham Accords boosting stability among countries that once hated each other, I mean, you go to the Emirates, you see Israelis, tourists investing, doing business. Absolutely. They don't want to end that. They want to grow that relationship. Saudi Arabia is demanding for the creation of a Palestinian state in order to normalize the relations. But the Saudis are also behind the scenes to improve economic and security relations with I think that after the war is over, that process will grow. Iran and Saudi Arabia have normalized their diplomatic relations, not because of Trump, They've been incredibly about retaliation against Israel, even as the Israelis as they crippled Hezbollah's military, as they invaded Southern Lebanon. I mean, Yemen's Houthis to carry out strikes in the but that is not enough to ignite which none of the powers So I mean, if everyone in the region knows they can't win against Israel, the Israelis are the the level of escalation and that's why oil prices It's about China's economic challenges, America's production, It's not about war in the Middle East. So the most likely is that the longstanding will keep Israel's government That relationship will But Israel will remain a small, asymmetrically powerful military terms, and technological terms. They will continue to be able to defend themselves effectively and the Palestinians will just as the Russians and Ukrainians have over the last two years. I think that the Middle because the region's most that they don't want and Very different from the dynamic between Russia and NATO. Okay. But I haven't yet spoken So I'm going to end with a few The biggest problem that we are all facing for global leadership is the crisis of The US elections are now I'd say, thank God, but no one's looking forward to this. I have no idea who's going to win. I mean, if you made me I'm saying that to you not but just because most elections this year are change elections, 70% of Americans say they're not happy with where the country is going. It is very hard to vote for when that many people say, Trump is something different. (attendees laughing) Very different. But he's also incredibly unpopular and in unprecedented ways, unfit. The problem is not just The problem is that everyone which is that there are major forces inside the United States that are intent on destroying democracy. Everyone agrees on that. They just disagree on which forces and that is a serious problem. The left argues that Donald Trump has already used political pressure and the US courts and violence to try in every way possible to overturn the results of the Democrats show the wave of lawsuits making their way through They say that every word that Trump utters is a genuine threat to the The right insists that American democracy has already been subverted because entrenched elites, the deep state, has obstructed the will of Trump regularly warns his you won't have a country anymore. He claims that large scale voters, voter fraud routinely and that these people, just like in 2016 when he said that Hillary Clinton should be locked up, he now says that about Kamala Harris. He talks about calling police brutality and he pledges that he to take care of internal enemies. My country, the United States, is today at war with itself. Its political system is far from the envy of anyone else in the world. Deep pocketed interest groups are distorting law and policymaking to create a system that represents dollars over its own citizens. And no matter who wins on November 5th, tens of millions of that their political system is broken, and they are not wrong about that. The post-election period as we are about to have will be perceived as illegitimate by nearly half of the country. So, what are we going to do about that? We will get a president I mean not on November 5th. We won't know on the We might not know in a week. It's most likely that that both sides will say that they've won. And then there'll be lawsuits and there'll be different lawsuits. The Democrats will have where they say that there and intimidation, they They'll say that there by local elected officials The Republicans will say that in some states because and that they had a win and then it was overturned and it was rigged. And the judicial system So, those court cases will be thrown out or they'll be overturned. But that will create an environment where the people, the voters will say, &quot;You are stealing my election. You are subverting my democracy.&quot; And that will have effect And when you finally get a president, the opponents to that president, but a lot of the members of that party and the politically elected officials will say, &quot;This is not my president.&quot; We haven't dealt with that. Now, I say to you here in Japan, this is not such a concern The dollar's still strong. Geopolitically, the American Mexico, Canada, couple big oceans, right? I mean, it's a good environment to be in. The dollar works. The research universities are great, the entrepreneurship is strong. The natural resources are But if you think the United leadership over the last 20 years, you have seen nothing And Japan has to be where the United States for the values that it has What values are we talking about? Well, global security, free trade, promotion of democracy, rule of law. These are all fundamental sometimes hypocritically, but nonetheless has been and has been relied on by its allies and its adversaries has known that there's going to We already talked about CPTPP because TPP suddenly I mean, the uncertainty that over the past decades has been more about the United States than other countries. JCPOA Iranian nuclear World Health Organization, Paris Climate Accord, you in, you out. Well, how about Russia-Ukraine? How about security umbrella How much can you count Now that does not mean going to have a security but it does mean that Japan has to take a greater leadership role. It does mean that Japan how to build more inclusive architecture that the Americans by themselves won't do, which includes engaging, for Because if you don't engage with the Chinese in any architecture, then it looks like you're This is a uniquely challenging environment outside the US. Final point I want to make is that if it were a uniquely in the United States, the Americans would've fixed it by now. Part of the reason why is because the US doesn't think it matters because they are so because they've gotten through January 6th and there was no coup and And they can get through embarrassing political dysfunctions without feeling like their lives But that means this is going to get worse before it gets better. That's a G-zero world. So I go back to the beginning. Fantastic opportunities, The technology is amazing. We're not on the precipice of a cold war, but we don't have leadership. And the Japanese have quietly, but nonetheless, consistently relied most not on the idea that we're You've relied most on the idea that there will be global leadership. It turns out you were wrong about that. And you know, you do know that. I mean, the Americans were The Americans thought they're going to become Americans. Turns out they're still Chinese. You can be wrong about things. But being wrong about global leadership is going to require a lot of strength, a lot of courage, and a lot of hard work from Japan, from the Japanese government, from the thought leaders, And and I hope that we can count on that. I hope we can see more of it. I know that by so many more than we've seen in previous years, the interest is high, the engagement is high. We need to translate that into action and we are obviously very privileged to be a part of that with you. So, with all of that, my welcome along with my friends and colleagues here to today's GZERO Summit. I hope it's successful and I look forward to spending some time with all of you later today. Thank you very much. (attendees applauding)