Makeup can make you look a lot older, or makeup can make you look really glowy, fresh and so youthful. What's it going to be today? In this video, I'm going to show you how to look at ten years younger in ten minutes or less, but we're going to switch it up a notch. We're going to do a little differently than we normally do. I've been reading your comments. Okay. I read every single comment and I can see the different people tend to gravitate towards different types of products for different areas of the face. Very understandable. We all have our preferences, so because of that, we are going to do a Choose Your Own Adventure video where I show you different options so that when you go to recreate these looks from home on yourself, you can choose your own adventure. That's going to be best for you. Also, there is a giveaway in this video, so make sure to watch until the end so that you know what I'm giving away and how you can enter to win it. Let's get started! For a natural makeup look to look really, really good, it is essential that we get our skin to look as good as we possibly can. Okay, so that means two things. We need it to look smooth, and we definitely need it to look hydrated. When it comes to smoothness, we need to exfoliate. So now we can start choosing our own adventure. One way to exfoliate that leads to a really amazing end result is Dermaplaning. We have very fine hair on our face and we might not even totally see it, but it's there. And sometimes what can happen is that can really impact how our makeup looks, because the makeup wants to stick to the hair. So Dermaplaning removes the hair from the surface of the skin, which basically results in a smoother texture and also a much brighter complexion. Something else that it does that's really cool is it enhances product absorption. So by removing the outer layer of dead skin cells, it allows the skin care products to penetrate more effectively. So it maximizes the benefits of your skincare products. So when you're doing this you really want to minimize any nicks or cuts okay. Because that's really going to defeat the purpose that's going to really hurt your skin. So the way that we minimize nicks or cuts is by using a really light hand. See how I'm just kind of dusting it on the skin with really super light pressure. When you're working anywhere where the skin is a little bit looser, you want to hold your skin nice and taut. It's amazing how incredibly smooth and soft your skin feels after doing this again, just be careful. Don't overdo it. This should really only be done every 3 to 4 weeks or as needed. Sometimes I won't do it for like 2 or 3 months and then I'll do it before a special occasion. Sometimes my skin is feeling very lackluster and dull and then I'll do it. Then I kind of like, let my skin guide me and tell me when it's time to do it, but it's not something that you want to do weekly. Now, if you look closely at the blade, you'll actually be so surprised with how much stuff actually came out of your skin, right? There's so much hair, so much peach fuzz, and that skin cells that you didn't even realize you had. Now, of course, another way to exfoliate is with a physical exfoliant. The thing with a physical exfoliator is it looks like a face wash right? But inside the face wash there's these really rough little granules. And those rough little granules is what's going to slough off all of the dead skin cells on the surface of the skin. Now, with something like this, you're not going to get rid of peach fuzz, okay? You're not going to get rid of that vellus hair that you'll get rid of if you use Dermaplaning. But you will still get rid of all of that dead skin cell that's on the surface. When I'm exfoliating, I always focus on the areas that get the most congested, which for me is my T-zone. So especially here in the center of my face, I have a lot of oil production, here in my chin and here in my forehead. Now, of course, we have to prep our skin. We have to get our skin to look as supple and hydrated and beautiful as we possibly can before applying any makeup on at all. So for skincare, I'm going to use a product called iUnik. Okay, this is Korean skincare and this part of the video is sponsored by Creditthink. Thank you very much Credithink for sponsoring this part of the video. These three products sit really well under makeup and make the skin look super supple and super hydrated. So the first one that I am going to use is the beta glucan power Moisture Serum. This serum is phenomenal for hydrating and soothing the skin. It's really great for people who have sensitive skin or skin that just feels very dehydrated and dry. Beta glucan is actually a powerhouse humectant, so it's been scientifically proven to hydrate the skin 20% better than hyaluronic acid. It's also been proven to deeply penetrate the skin, boost the skin's immunity, and stabilize the skin barrier. Okay, so this product not only has a really high concentration of beta glucan, but it also has glycerin and hyaluronic acid in it, which are also really good humectant okay, this has amazing reviews among the dry and mature skin community, but people with really hyper sensitive skin like rosacea, for example, they really love it too, because beta glucan is just so, so soothing. Now, we're not going to stop there because a serum just isn't really enough. It's not enough to plump the skin, you know, in the way that we want to when we're doing a really beautiful, natural and fresh look. So on top of the serum, we are going to put a moisturizer. Now, this is the beta glucan daily moisture cream. So these two products go very, very well together right. So this product obviously also has beta glucan in it which is that powerhouse Humectant. But it also has something called Centella Asiatic as well, which is a really well known oriental plant that has amazing soothing properties. So it's even used in Asia to make ointments. So what this does is it soothes inflammation. So I have a bit of like an open pimple here. Right. So I'm putting it right on there to soothe the inflammation from that. It also repairs damaged skin barrier. So again right here it's perfect for that. And it's really good for high pigmentation as well. So it inhibits melanin production improves fine lines and wrinkles. It does it all. I've even been using it on my hands. My hands have been getting really dry lately and I've even been using it on my hands. I find it to be so effective for such a reasonable, reasonable price, and it doesn't leave my skin feeling too oily. After letting that absorb for a few minutes. Of course we need to add SPF, so this line has an SPF as well. Okay, that goes really well with it and it's the Centella Calming daily sunscreen. This is a hydrating sunscreen, but it has a matte finish, so you'll see that it doesn't have that really greasy, shiny finish that a lot of facial sunscreens have that I absolutely hate. It also has no white cast, which is amazing. Okay. And even though it's a chemical SPF, the filters that the sunscreen uses are very gentle, but they're also very effective, so they're not going to burn your eyes. I've never had this burn my eyes. I've used this on my kids a lot. None of that. It's not going to burn. But it's going to work, which is incredible. It's an SPF of 50 plus. Okay, I'm going to let all of this absorb into my skin really well while I blow dry my hair. And I'll be right back so we can do the makeup. All right. Let's start with the brows. So I'm going to show you a laminated brow. And I'm going to show you a very natural brow okay. Really simple, easy natural brow. Let's start with the laminated brow first. So in order to get that super laminated fluffy brow look that we are seeing everywhere, you need two things. You need an extremely strong cold brow gel. The strongest one that I've been able to find is the Anastasia Beverly Hills Brow Freeze Gel. And you also need a brow pen, so something that you can draw individual hairs with. Now for my brow pen I'm going to use the Maybelline Build a Brow, which is an amazing brow pen at a really affordable price. So what you're going to do is you're going to start by applying that brow gel to the brows. Now, for whatever reason, I don't love this wand. I find that a disposable wand like this one works a lot better for me when I'm creating this look. So I am pushing up at the front, and then when I get to the sides, I'm kind of moving in a bit of a diagonal. Now, once you have your brow hairs in place, that's when you take your pencil, and that's when you sketch in individual little hairs in the areas of the brow that are missing. So you just have to look at yourself in the mirror. I am missing quite a bit of hair underneath here, right from all the years of over plucking. So I'm going to place my pen tip right there, and I'm going to sketch that hair back in. Now, I always take a makeup wipe or a Q-Tip or something, and I clean up the excess glue around the brows, because if you don't do that, since this is such a firm hold product, it kind of messes up your foundation. And there you go. This is what a more laminated sketched brow looks like. Now, another way to do a brow in a way that you guys are more familiar with, I'm sure is simply with an eyebrow pencil. So I'm just going to go in and sketch the areas that are missing. You can still get your brows to look quite natural even with a pencil. Just make sure to keep your pressure low and to do little sketches instead of solid, blocky lines. If you run your spoolie through the pigment like this, you diffuse and soften out that waxy pigment. Now, one way to keep the brow hairs staying in place, especially if your brows grow down, but not making them look laminated like say you just want something so much more natural you can get a clear brow gel. So this one is by sigma. It's called the Tint and tame Brow gel, but it is in color clear. This has a very soft hold. It is nothing like the Anastasia Beverly Hills one. This one just gives you just a nice gentle hold. If you want to save a little bit of money and buy something on a budget, you can just buy a clear mascara. Pretty much any clear mascara at the drugstore will do and use those on your brows. It's going to work in the exact same way. This is how my brows look. Done with option one versus option two. For foundation, I'm going to show you two styles. The first one is going to be a fuller coverage, more of a true foundation. And then the second one is going to be very natural fingertip application. So for the first one we are going to work with Tir Tir Mask Fit Red cushion foundation. I just did a review on this. I was very pleasantly surprised by this product. This is still a natural look. It looks very skin-like on the face, but it does provide full coverage and you can kind of customize it depending on how full you want it. So all you're going to do is take your puff. I'm going to show you a way that I like using it. Now that I've been using it a lot, I take my puff, I grab it on here, I put it on here just to blend and even it out, and then I stamp it on the skin. As you can see, it's quite full coverage. Now, if you don't want the coverage to be so full, you can then take a foundation brush and you can just buff and blend it out. Okay. So you don't have to stamp the entire thing on. Stamping it all on is going to lead to a really full, full coverage. But if you go in with a damp beauty blender or you go in with the foundation brush, you're going to sheer out the coverage in a way that's going to be a little bit more light to medium, which is kind of what we want with these natural makeup look days. So again, we take our puff, we push it in, we blend it out, we stamp to get it on, and then we go ahead and sheer it out. Every single time I wear this foundation, I get compliments on my skin. It's actually kind of crazy. I've never had a complexion product quite like this one. It is a very unique foundation and there's definitely a reason why it's gone viral in Japan. It has a completely different formulation than anything else on the market than anything else I've ever tried. Now, they say that this concealer can be used under the eyes, and I have used it under my eyes, and I actually didn't mind it. But because we are really making this more of a perfect natural makeup look, I do feel like to get a better result, I need something else. So I'm going to go on with my liquid VO2. This is the Vasanti color corrector. It's the best color corrector I have ever used for myself. As you can see, I have a lot of blue, so I'm going to go in with this color corrector that has a lot of peach because orange and blue are opposite on the color wheel, so they cancel each other out. That's going to completely offset any of the color correction issues I have, and then I can go in and brighten with another product. So I'm going to brighten with my Lancome. This is my all over concealer. And all I'm going to do here is I'm going to go into my tear duct, drag it down and in here, and that's going to pop out that under-eye circle. I'm also going to go here to lift the corners of my eyes. And I'm going to apply it on my eyelid as well just to offset any of that discoloration. Now, just so you guys know, this Tir Tir foundation has something called an air layered powder. So it actually sets itself, it does dry down and set itself. It's extremely, extremely, extremely long wear. So if you have dry skin types you're probably not going to want to powder on top of this because it might end up being too drying for you because it's self sets. Because I have oily skin, I still do powder the center of my face because you can see I'm still getting quite shiny in the center of the face, but I go really easy on the powder when I'm working with this foundation. Just because it is a self setting formulation, it really doesn't need a lot of external setting just because I have oily skin. I'm also going to go in and lightly set right here, right here, and right here. Now, if you're really not wanting to spend any time, you just want very fast, very natural poolside makeup, then I recommend getting yourself something like a tinted moisturizer. This one is by the brand Jones Road. I just discovered it. It's called what the Foundation. So it is called a foundation, but it really works like a tinted moisturizer. It comes in this little glass jar. It's actually very pretty. And you can apply it just with your fingertips or with a brush. I tend to prefer a brush application, as you guys know, it's the makeup artist in me, but I'm going to just show you how it goes on. It really goes on just like a moisturizer. And then I will show you how to spot correct the areas that need a little bit more correction. Okay. So you can see how sheer this is. This is great if you're a no makeup person okay. You're going to get that luminosity, that very soft evening out of the skin but with very little makeup feel. And then they also have this okay, this is the Jones Road the face pencil. So what you don't get with this in terms of coverage you're going to be able to make up with this. You can look for where you have discoloration. So I have an area here that's always has discoloration. And in here I have quite a bit of discoloration. And you can just completely spot correct it. So you're using so much less foundation right. Because this really does feel like a hydrator. And you're just giving yourself the coverage where you need the coverage, which is usually like around the nose. And then we'll do it around the eyes as well. With products like this, you can blend it by stippling with your finger, or you can also stipple with a actual concealer brush. Okay, it just depends on what you're more comfortable with. Now, this concealer isn't the type of concealer that's going to significantly brighten. You know, if you really want to highlight certain areas of your face, unless you get a much lighter color to use as well as this one, it's not going to brighten. But if you're a very natural girl, then this really is a great way to kind of evened out the canvas. And I'm just going to set the areas of my face that get very shiny, which is my chin, my nose, right up in here and here in the center of my forehead. I also like to very lightly set under my eyes so that I don't crease as much. With this pencil, it's not quite as necessary. So if your eyes get very dry or very crepey, then you can probably even skip it. You'll still get a bit of creasing, but not that much. But if your eyes aren't overly dry, it's a nice idea to to dust a very light amount a very fine powder in that area just so that you don't get creasing, you know, especially later on in the day. This is how my skin looks with option one, which is a much fuller coverage, more makeup look versus option two, which is a very, very natural, very easy to apply look. All right for eyes. This is what we're going to do. We're going to do a matte eye with a winged liner that's done with shadow. Okay. So I'm going to work with one shadow palette only. It's the makeup by Mario Master Mattes palette. It's the original one the warm one. So I'm going to take a fluffy crease brush. This is BK 201. And of course I'm going to carve out my crease okay. And I'm going to start with this color right here which is like a neutral soft brown that's not too reddish not too warm but also not cool. Then I'm going to take that exact same color. I'm going to take my under eye shader brush, I'm going to dip it in, and I'm going to bring that color under the eyes to tie the whole thing together. I love shading under the eyes, because I actually have quite a few fine lines under there, and adding a little shadow really camouflages them. It puts them literally into the shadow. Then after that you can dip into your skin colored one, which is this one for me, and I just pop it on my lid just to brighten and bring it forward a little bit. Now here is where the magic happens. Now this is what makes my makeup look like me. Okay, this is like my look. So what I'm going to do is grab an angled brush. All I'm going to do is dip into my black. Now you can use black. You can use brown. You can use any color you want. But using a shadow is a really easy way to create a very soft wing with much less effort than using an actual eyeliner. So all I'm going to do is I'm going to start on the outside and I'm going to connect my bottom lash to it, and I'm going to start creating the wing shape. Do you see that? So then once I've done that, I start stamping in on the lash line now because I want this to stay really soft and natural. I'm going to stop about here, okay? I'm not going to go all the way in. If I did, I'd create more of a siren eye or a longer eye. But I really want this to kind of stay extended outwards and be very soft and pretty for daytime. Then I'm going to grab that line here, and I'm going to tilt my brush and connect it this way. So I'm basically filling in a little V right there. Do you see that. Voila. Two second winged liner. Now all you have to do is curl your lashes, pop on some mascara top and bottom and we're done. If you make a mistake on your winged liner, don't freak out. You can just take your concealer on a flat brush like this, and you can just clean it up just like this. Okay, for this eye, what I'm going to do is take my bronzer. So this is my Rimmel Natural Bronzer. A bronzer is the perfect transition color, the perfect contour color for the crease. So if you haven't been using your bronzer as your contour color, I highly recommend it, especially for quick looks. So all you want to do is take a fluffy crease brush and buff it into the crease of the eye. As you can see, I just got the lightest bit of shading that separates the lid from the crease. Then I'm going to take a little shader brush. This is BK Beauty 204. I'm going to dip it into that same bronzer, and I'm going to bring that under my eyes for definition. It's going to make my eyes look bigger and now is a really great time to utilize a cream shadow. Okay. Cream shadow is such a quick way to do makeup that gives off pretty, pretty high impact. So again this is Jones Road. So they just sent me a PR package. And I've been having a lot of fun with their products because they're just so natural. You know, they're perfect for that summertime fresh look. So this one's called the just a sec eyeshadow in the color bronze. Now the way that I apply cream eyeshadows, I just dip in with my finger so that I get the pigment. And then I tap it on the eyelid. And that's just a really easy way to add a little pop of bronzyness and a little pop of sparkle to the lid, and literally under a minute. We're not going to do a wing this time. You know, we're going to really keep it simple and just create a little bit of shading along the lash line to tighten up the line, but not overcomplicate the look. Now we curl the lashes, apply mascara on the top and bottom, and the eyes are done. Okay, here's the difference between eye look one and eye look two. Now for the best part, the finishing touches, which brings everything together. So I'm going to show you a product that I just discovered it Ulta last week and it is the Milani Cream Bronzer. This was a recommendation, a very strong recommendation from Lisa J makeup and from Marlene Estelle. They were like, Gabi, if you're in Ulta, you have to buy this. They were not lying. This is an amazing, amazing, amazing cream bronzer. This is in the color 130 spicy season. I just stamp it right here. Okay. And then I stamp it right here on the other side. And then I go here on my hairline to bronzing and round this out and also make my forehead a little bit smaller and then when I blend this I blend up not down. Do you see that? So I'm blending by pushing the product up not down. When we're working with cream we stipple. So I know I tell you guys that in every video, but make sure when you are blending that you are pushing that product into the skin. So I'm just going to grab a nice clean contour brush. It's going to clean it up, dip it into that cream bronzer and contour out my nose. Now for lips, I really want to define. One of my favorite lines of lip liners right now is makeup by Mario. Okay, the sculpting lip pencils. I think they're great. They come in beautiful colors. This color happens to be the color smokey pink, which I think is great for this kind of romantic vibe. It's still a neutral, it's still a nude, but it has a pink base to it. I'm basically going to use this lip liner like a lipstick, and I'm going to fill my entire lip in with it. Now I'm going to top that off with this. It's a very similar tonal family. It's miss Rose, also makeup by Mario, the moisture glow. So it's the plumping lip gloss. I don't find this to be plumping at all, but it is a nice lip gloss with beautiful colors. I think this has got to be my favorite lip combination of the moment. It's perfectly defined without being too much. It's just it's perfect. For cheeks, when we get lips on, we can really see how much we need cheeks right? For cheeks, we are doing a tried and true okay, tower 28. This is in the color office hours. You can see that it's going to do very well with the tonal quality of my lips. I find that the lips and the cheeks have to be tonally similar to look balanced. To finish it all off, we can go in with a setting spray, and I want to show you this. This is the Morphe sun setter setting spray. So this has an SPF of 30. Now I'm going to show you another setting spray with the other look. But the reason I like this one is because Tir Tir self sets with that air layered powder. I like bringing a little bit more moisture back in. Sometimes a glowy spray for me because I have oilier skin is a little bit too much, especially when I'm already creating all of that hydration and suppleness in my prep stage. So this is kind of a perfect combination of glowy and also being a setter that doesn't add too much radiance. The sunscreen in it does add a little bit of glow, which is nice, but what's the best part about it is that it adds more protection so you can keep this in your purse throughout the day. You can touch up with it, you can get a little bit of glow, but not over the top, and also help your makeup stay on longer. It also has a heavenly smell. I have to tell you, it literally smells like the beach and I am not mad about it at all. Okay, let's wrap up with our finishing touches for the bronzer at the same one I use in the crease I'm going to use on my face. All I'm going to do is just very lightly add some on my forehead, and then I'm going to do almost like a W right in here. So I'm going to go into the cheekbone a little bit right. Just to hollow that out and create a little bit more dimension in the face so it doesn't look so flat. And then I'm going to bring it under here just to carve this out. Right. To strengthen this up a little bit. And again right in here and in here finishing touches is what always drives the look home. Always. It's the thing that just makes everything thing look so put together. You know you can do the most simple eye a little bit of this tinted moisturizer and then just spending a minute or two doing these steps is really what's going to turn it into a more impressive look. So again, I'm going to take that bronzer on a fluffy crease brush. I'm going to run it down my nose here to give myself a little bit more contour around the tip and then over into here. I even like to connect it into here and create a little bit of a shadow in here. For blush, I'm going to use this blush by the brand OG. This is stunning. This is absolutely beautiful. It's in color rose quartz. It's the perfect color for this look. It's pretty much that like mauve pink which I think will add a little bit of color to the cheeks, a little bit of livelihood, but not be too dominating because this look is really so fresh. We don't want to overdo it for these lips. We're keeping it so darn simple we're not even gonna use lip liner. I know, shocking for me, I'm using the color Dahlia and Ravie Beauty. This is effortless. Lips by Ravie Beauty Allie Glines' makeup line. Allie Glines is an influencer. If you guys don't follow her already, I'm not sure who hasn't heard of her. She's really well known if you don't follow her. She created this called Effortless Lips, which is a hybrid between a lipstick and a lip balm. You get the color payoff of a lipstick, but with the hydration and the ease of application of a balm. So that's why I really, really love it, because the lips have a pinky hue to them. I'm going to go back in with my blush and I'm going to add a little bit more. Makeup is all about balance. So you will notice when things are off balance right away, because the eyes are so bronzy and the lips are so pinky. We need to bring the pink in and a great way to bring the pink in is to add a little bit more blush and to bring that blush into the eyes as well. So I'm going to grab my fluffy crease brush. I'm just going to grab that cream blush, and I'm going to pop it a little bit into here. See that? I'm just tying everything together. I'm taking that warmth in the eye, and I'm adding a little bit of pink to it so that everything becomes more harmonious and it doesn't look like something is out of balance. Then as our final, our very last step, because I am using luminous products, everything that I use today is luminous, right? The cream blush is luminous, the foundation product is luminous. I used a cream shadow. I hardly use any powder products at all. So in order for my makeup to actually stay on my skin throughout the day, especially because I do have combination oily skin, what I'm going to do is I'm going to use a setting spray that has oil control. So this is the Urban Decay De Slick makeup setting spray specifically made for oil control. When you are picking and choosing products, you can cocktail things so they work better together. So even though I have oilier skin, I can still get away with a luminous finish like this as long as my setting spray isn't also luminous. So think a little bit about what you're choosing, how that formula is and why, and then how it's going to react to your skin and balance it out. Right? Balance out what you're doing so that you get as much longevity of wear as possible. And there you have it. Here's the completed look. Giveaway time. My friends at Credithink are going to give three of you guys this set. Okay, if you saw this in the video and you are dying to get it, three of you are going to win it. The beta Glucan Power Moisture Serum phenomenal product, and the Beta Glucan Daily Moisture Cream. This set together, three of you are going to win it. And so the way that you can enter to win it, if you really, really want to win it, and I know you do, is let me know in the comment section below of each category what you liked the best. So did you like the laminated brow or did you like the more natural brow? Did you like the tinted lip cream more, or did you like the lip liner with gloss more? Of all the categories, which one was your favorite? How are you going to choose your own adventure when you recreate this look from home? This video is over.