Since the beginning of human language, natural numbers have existed as an And around 1000 BC, fraction with any denominator, which we call positive rational And around 3rd Century, the positional as opposed to representing different And along came the number zero. Around similar time period, China invented but instead of zero for a But they invented negative numbers. Red represents positive and which is the opposite of how in modern finance today. And in 12th century India, the idea of negative numbers really matured, as they started thinking about them Though in our education system, we learn the development in After natural numbers, we which is the natural numbers with zero. And in many branches of higher mathematics, we call this system with zero the natural numbers. Then we learn about the integers, which includes all the negative counting numbers. Then we learn about the rational numbers, which allow division of any Then next, we learn about the real numbers. Since the ancient times, many different civilizations as quantities that arose from geometry. But the real numbers as we know today, which is the completion of the rational number, which roughly means to fill up all the holes so that your space becomes continuous, was really only understood by mid 1800s. And those holes are called irrational numbers. Then we learn about the complex numbers, which is the algebraic closure of the reals, which means every polynomial equations will have a solution within the complex numbers. And that is called the and it tells us that there's no need number system in order to solve And this is the number system as we know So what comes after? In this video, we will look at how new number the mathematics' greatest And we will see number systems two-dimensional numbers that meaning they live on a square that just like the Pac-Man universe, and some higher dimensional real numbers, which we can think of complex numbers and many of you are probably already familiar with the quaternions which is But is there such a thing as And if there is, why is two And why did Hamilton, who which was a discovery he was so proud of, failed to invent three-dimensional numbers? Eight is an even number, which means 8 is divisible by 2. And what it really means is And there is an implicit That is, we were working over the And if we never had that since pi is equal to two times And for that matter, every real So this really shows that some is definitely more interesting over Now, over the integers, is Well it definitely is composite since it divides into two numbers Then how about negative five? It splits into five and negative one, so it is composite right? Well the thing about negative one is, you can keep dividing by it forever, So we need to exclude it. So over the integers, there are two numbers that are excluded and we call them the units. And since negative five divides into two negative five is a prime number. And since plus and minus five they really are different and we say they are associates of each other. Over the integers, every number and one is prime if the other one is. So the notion of prime numbers over integer is not Then how about rational numbers? Well over the rational numbers, every number except for zero is a unit since no matter what non-zero number you choose, you can keep on dividing by it forever. So there is no prime nor And same story holds for real and complex numbers. So in some sense, arithmetic over the because division is not guaranteed. So we literally have a subject which we call number theory. And without exposure to higher mathematics, someone could think it is a very easy subject since it is about integers. But to counter that point, let's take a look at this example. What are all the positive real number Well it should be pretty obvious that z is equal to square root of x^2+y^2 this gives the complete list But what if we are looking for all That is, we are looking for all And here is the list of And primitive triple means it So for example, 6,8,10 or since they are just multiples of the triple 3,4,5. And these primitive triples can be such that n is greater than m, and they are relatively prime, and they cannot be both even then each of the primitive Pythagorean triple And if we want all the then we can throw in another positive integer And these three parameters k, m, n gives a complete list of all possible other than the possibility of swapping a and b which are solutions as well. And we call this the Euclid's The proof of this claim is highly non-trivial and but since there already is a beautiful I will leave the link in the description below. But the point I was trying to make here was how much more difficult finding integer So number theory is rather a difficult subject. And it is home to some of the The first three on this list are solved, and they are iconic since the techniques involved in that new fields and mathematics have been invented and many unrelated branches of in order to tackle these problems. And the last four are still unsolved. And there are ones on the list that are One of the new techniques to solve is to invent new number systems. And before we do that, we want to come up So we will first start with the ring, which is a number system where you any two numbers, like the integers, And the rings where we can divide any two So with this definition that we have so far, are the set of all even integers a ring? Since we can add and subtract any and we can multiply any two Well for a number system to be considered useful, it needs to contain one. So we will require a ring to But we can have a slightly weaker and it is called a rng since it And I kid you not that is actually And rng is a structure that is made to generalize concepts like multiples of two And of course every ring is a rng. So how about non-negative integers We have something called a but subtraction between any And I am not joking, some since it is a ring without negatives. For our purposes, number systems that are going to be rings and fields. Not having division introduces interesting but not having subtraction So we won't look at any more semirings. and as for rngs that are not rings, They are not really number systems, but they are generalized notion and they are important as Now we are ready to introduce Z adjoin i, which is notated as Z bracket i, is an extension of the integers by i, and it is the smallest ring So for this to be a ring, you need to be able to add, subtract, So you need one plus i, or two minus i. And once you make it a ring, you will have all the numbers So this number system has numbers of the and the units of this ring are plus So every number except for zero has four Over this number system, 2 is not a prime number And a^2 + b^2, which was not factorable over the I mentioned earlier about 3Blue1Brown's and he solves it using this number system. Now, what is Z adjoin 2? Since 2 is already in the integers, Then how about Z adjoin one-half? Of course one-half needs to be in there. And for this to be a ring, or one-half times one-half, or any integer times one-half So this is the set of rationals with So over this ring, powers of two are now units. This number system is called dyadic and America seems to have a strange obsession As stupid as American units are, this number system is actually For example one-third has base So it has zero for one-half's place, one for one-fourth's place, zero for one-eighth's place, one for one-sixteenth's place, and so on. And a finite digit binary approximation is how since it would take infinite data So if we toss in all the reciprocals then we get the rational numbers. And if we throw in i to the reals, then we get the complex numbers. The very first of this kind of number in order to solve the Fermat's First step we can take is to and extend the number system a little since if there are no solutions over the integers, then there are no solutions over the naturals, which is a smaller number system. But we have to be a little careful And we will exclude any solution where which are called trivial Solutions. Euler got very close to solving the problem, and the key step he had to take was to factor an expression and if he somehow could, then the So he decided to extend the and in this new number system, However his proof was wrong. In order for the proof to work, the factorization of numbers But over this number system, 4 has two different prime factorization. In modern language, we say this ring Euler however did solve Fermat's Last Theorem which was purely over the integers, which we call elementary proof today. And the first algebraic proof was So what are all the fourth roots of one? It is 1, i, -1, and -i. And notice how all of them are on the unit And the smallest ring over the integers that And Gauss studied this number so we call it the Gaussian integer. Then what are all the cube roots of one? They are unit complex numbers including one such that the circle is split into thirds, and we typically call the first And since the number is 120 degrees we can describe the number in And the smallest ring over the integers And geometrically, this number system contains And we call this ring the Eisenstein integers. And this ring has six units, omega and omega squared, and their negatives. And this ring contains square so this ring fully contains all of Z And over this ring, u^2 and you may ask why, since four still But over this ring, those numbers are not really meaning they are just rotated And this prime factorization of 4 is And this really is no different which we wouldn't have considered So over this new number system, Euler's proof is now patched up. This modified version of Euler's proof uses the crucial step of factoring as last few steps, sort of like a last minute fix. But in Gauss's proof, the fun In high school algebra, we learn how to factor the sum of cubes, And over the Eisenstein integers, And that really is the which is a much more elegant proof. Then how about Fermat's Of course we can do an algebraic but I'd say the elementary proof And this was the only case that Since we can rewrite the equation this way, this now is a question about Pythagorean triples which we know the complete structure of. And if we can show that it is impossible for then the problem is proven. And 4 is the only composite number We do not have to prove The Fermat's Last Let's take 30 for an example, then we can pull out 3 from 30, and this now is a question about whether So we really only have to check Fermat's And the very next one we want and this can be approached The first fifth root of one that is not one written as zeta five. And the smallest ring that contains And we call this ring the cyclotomic integers, which is truly an appropriate name And the Gaussian integers are just specific examples of cyclotomic integers. And over this new number system, the sum of fifth powers and the proof from here is more And we can use the same technique But we get stuck at 23 since the cyclotomic integers for 23 Then Ernst Kummer, who was the guy who solved it comes up with a truly remarkable He notices that this number And I will skip the explanation of But if that happens to be the case, then you can technically And let's see what that means in the Over this number system, 6 has two Kummer thought, are they really primes So Kummer changes the definition and that is when the factorization is unique. And instead, we would call 2, 3 and 1 plus a minus square root irreducible meaning they can't factor any further, but they may or may not be prime. Then Kummer invents these new called ideal prime numbers, which he called ideal since it would And over these integrally closed non-UFDs, every number will at least These new kinds of numbers are which I will talk about in another video. But we actually don't use Instead we use an equivalent but much which does not involve imaginary numbers. So to explain what that Over the integers, the ideal generated by is simply all the multiples of two. And the multiples of negative 2 really Then the ideal generated by 2 and 10 is simply And this really is no different than Then how about ideal generated by 2 and 3? Since 3 minus 2 is equal to And in fact you can hit every integer as Now we can define the product of ideals which we call subrng, that contains all the product of each ideal, so we need this rng to contain 2 and 2 times negative 30. And the smallest rng that contains all of these So this ideal business redefines into factorizations of ideals into prime ideals. And integers is a very nice kind of ring, so factoring numbers and factoring But it is definitely more For example, multiples of 2 is not a prime ideal since there is a bigger ideal that This is analogous to thinking is a subset of multiples of two over the integers. So multiples of four is not a prime ideal. And multiples of 4 can factor into Over the integers, every meaning they only need one generator or in other words every ideal But these non-UFDs can have non-principal ideals, meaning ideals need more than one generator. So with the introduction of ideals, Kummer was able to solve Fermat's But he couldn't for 37. He called these prime numbers where And there are infinitely many of them. So what's so irregular about them? Over the integers every ideal is principal, so in some sense this ring is very regular. Over Z adjoin square root of negative five, we could have a non-principal ideal and this is precisely the source of irregularity. over the prime cyclotomic if an ideal power is principal, then the original ideal is principal as well. But it fails for irregular primes. Kummer's proof was monumental, but Fermat's Last Theorem for all primes But in the process, we discovered ideals. And this gives rise to Over the integers, there is a sense And so is negative 3 or negative 213. And we say these numbers are congruent modulo 10, and what that means is these numbers when So what if we instead think instead of just being congruent? And that number system is the quotient So any number that are exactly 10 apart And as abstract as that sounds, we're if you ever looked at an analog clock. And we can think of numbers so 10 is same as 0. But this number system has a big problem since 10 is a composite number. If we write out the multiplication it is possible for two non-zero And we call those weird numbers zero divisors. Now compare that to integers And it is impossible for two This technique in some sense is a or more precisely if an ideal is a prime ideal. Over the gaussian integers, So let's see what happens if Then both 2 and 2i are congruent to 0. So we can think of this number system as wrapping both real and imaginary So this number system is a lattice on a torus. And there are four distinct numbers. And we can write out the multiplication table, and we can see that one plus i Before we see the true power let's take a look at some examples Of course we're all very familiar which is an example of and what I mean by two-dimensional it is a real vector of dimension two, and at the same time a ring. And we call such number system And in different subjects, that For example three-dimensional real vectors can be considered a But it is impossible for cross since the product has to be perpendicular to both. So is this at least a rng? Well for something to be it should at least behave like numbers such as multiplication being associative, and cross product fails that. In other branches of mathematics, cross product could be considered an algebra since it has some notion of multiplication. But in ring theory, we need the So when we say an algebra, it has to be a ring. And the multiplication has to be associative. So are there any other examples We have something called where the imaginary unit j behaves differently. j is a number that is but j squared is equal to one. And we have something called the dual numbers, which is a number system such that its Complex number is a field, but these other two are not for the dual numbers, epsilon and for the split-complex numbers And trying to divide by zero divisor is which is not allowed. So any ring with the zero divisor So we looked at some examples but how are they related to quotient rings? So we have to look at a new type of ring, The reals adjoin x, where x is a new type of object that does like the stuff we have already adjoined before. So just like before, this ring needs to contain x, have any real numbers add, x multiply to itself, and any other combination of addition, with any real numbers. And this ring is precisely the And same story holds for any And polynomials over these nicer as we have learned in high school math. So can we factor this polynomial into primes? We can first factor this into a cubic and a This is the complete factorization. These individual factors But we know for sure that the cubic by the intermediate value theorem. And in fact every polynomial can factor into And whatever a is, it's not a pretty number, and b and c is even worse. So I'm not going to write them down. So those quadratics that cannot factor over reals can factor fully into And this should strike a bell. Extending the number system turned and this is very similar. So now, what is the real That is, we are treating x so x squared is equal to negative one. And we can multiply by x on both sides, and we can do it again, and we can see that x behaves exactly like i. So this quotient ring and the complex numbers And we would call them isomorphic. And what that formally addition works exactly the same way, and the multiplication as well. And the function between two rings that define this correspondence Now what about this one? It definitely looks a lot more complicated. So to see what this ring is about, we can set the polynomial equal to zero, then complete the square. Then we can see that x behaves exactly like negative one plus square root of negative three. So this ring is same as the reals adjoin And throwing in this number is no so it is isomorphic to the complex numbers. And once we solve the mapping for i, we can see exactly what gets mapped to i. Just like this, whenever we quotient by a we get the complex numbers. And there are two more cases where the polynomial has repeated real roots, which is isomorphic to the dual numbers, and two distinct real roots, which is the split-complex numbers. And notice how whenever we took a that we got a ring with zero divisors. And this is the complete classification meaning any two-dimensional real algebra has to be isomorphic to one of these. Then how about the direct and that is an ordered pair of reals so that So the ordered pair (1,1) is the identity since if we multiply any other vector, we would get the exact same vector back. And it has two independent vectors and that tells us that this ring is probably And to see the explicit isomorphism, we just need to define where And every other vector is So the vector (1,1) would And in fact, the very reason is called split-complex numbers is that it can be split into two copies of real numbers. Now let's look at three-dimensional numbers. And every three-dimensional real So a degree 3 real polynomial two repeated roots with one distinct root, three distinct roots, or one real root with the prime quadratic factor. And these four types of polynomials completely And notice how every single one of these factor so none of these will be a field. And that's why Hamilton could not that behaves like two-dimensional complex number. Now the first one, it is a three-dimensional And we don't need any higher degree This number system is like and we call x a nilpotent number of index three. Now if we were to rewrite this using then i squared would be equal to j, j squared is x to the fourth, And i and j commutes, and i times j This is a very uninteresting number system But other ones on the list so I will leave it to you to explore them. Now since those other polynomials do split, they can be written as a split copy of just like the split-complex numbers, but I won't show you and explicit isomorphism yet. But they can be constructed which will be covered in detail in another video. It should be obvious by now that it's impossible to construct a higher There are only two types of which are linear and quadratic, and if we take a quotient by a linear, then this is no different than adjoining two since x is equal to two, and this is just real numbers, and if we do it for prime quadratic polynomial, then it's just complex numbers as we saw before. So in order to make a higher dimensional field, we need to do something completely different. And Hamilton invented quaternions, and it is a four-dimensional which was the terminology used during his days. And we actually wouldn't call it a You can divide any two quaternions except by zero, or equivalently every number has an inverse, so it is indeed a field according but when we say field today, the multiplication has to be commutative. And instead we would call H a Later, it was proven by Frobenius that there are only three division rings so there is no higher dimensional division rings unless you go to infinite dimension. and this really shows that Now just like we did for three dimension, can we classify all the Since 4 is a composite number, we need to introduce different kinds And real adjoin x and y is simply Now what does this angle bracket mean? It is similar to adjoining x and y, but x and y don't commute anymore. So we can have a very interesting polynomials And formally it's called a free And when we distribute two binomials, we can't add the two middle terms. And if we quotient by the commutator relation, meaning if we want to let xy equal yx, then we just get the regular polynomial ring. So what are all the I just wrote out first 10 commutative and this isn't a complete list. And as for quaternions, it can be written as a quotient, with first two relation for squaring and the third relation is for the And of course we can make something similar, and this one is called the dual quaternions, and this one is called split-quaternions. And four being a square number, you also have two by two real matrices. And this definitely is not a comprehensive list, as I know several that are not on the list. I actually searched modern literature but I failed to find any. And it really shows how So what if we look at simpler types of algebras? It seems like the classification gets so what if we only look at It was proven by Weierstrass and Dedekind that every finite dimensional commutative is isomorphic to some copies And Dedekind's name will show up again and again since he's the guy who invented And later, Wedderburn and Artin generalized it to And any finite dimensional real algebra What they actually proved is but this is just a small consequence So there are only four different and four different for dimension 5. Initially rings were invented as a but in the process, we have discovered that there are And that's why ring theory was invented in order to study all of these I started episode 1 of the series with but I believe it was a pedagogical before providing a reason why So I made this one in order to highlight the There are many more interesting number such as a number system where this or this number system where and infinity is actually a number, but this video is already really long, so I will have to cover them in other videos. So if you're curious to learn please subscribe for more contents.