- Thank you so much - ...for joining. Oh, good, I have my questions. Woo! All right, so. - It's quite a bright light you have here. - [Joanna] And it's a little chilly. I know you guys were worried a little bit about being a little chilly up here. I'd also like to welcome who's watching now live. So, I've called you really a big problem. It's really, a global I'm gonna bring it up here. Let's see if I can get this here, All right. - Yeah. All right, so. - It is. It's quite a problem. We're gonna start with you, Jos. Actually, you know what- - ...they gave me a pointer as well. - You're not gonna hit me with that. - Oh, yes, I, no. - Depends on the answer. So, what do you see when you look at this? - I see two really cool connectors. (laughter) Yeah, kind of the two most I think right now. - Okay. Craig, I know you're a software - [Craig] I gotta really - Oh, yeah? - These are two great connectors. - Two great connectors. - Okay. I see a little bit of a mess. - One of them has a don't you think? - Lightning. Yes, Lightning. So yes. - [Jos] One named by marketing people, one named by engineers. - Hey. - I see a little bit of a - Really? - Right. So this charges the iPhone. I'm not sure you guys know Now this charges the Mac and iPad and various other And so that's creating a In fact, the EU has approved legislation to create a common charger. In fact, they said in a press a USB-C port will become of electronic devices such and headphones. I think that includes you guys. Is Apple moving to USB-C? - Well, maybe I can - [Joanna] You may. - You probably heard me say for years that I don't mind governments telling us what they wanna accomplish, but usually we've got some to figure out the best ways to And an example of that for years and years, mobile phones had to satisfy a hearing aid compatibility spec. Very prescriptively regulation that said, to be compatible with hearing aids.&quot; The problem is it didn't work, And so we came up with a new way of doing hearing aids made for iPhone, hearing aids actually made that actually worked. You know, so what we were accomplishing is what the government wanted was this to have hearing impaired people be able to use phones, but we did it in a way that worked better. And you know, we've been in for well over 10 years. And over 10 years ago, Look, they're well I get the fact that they wanna was to do micro USB and If we have standardized a micro USB, that chart doesn't exist. Right? Neither of those happen. And so we have been in this and, but part of what, of course, they wanted to accomplish all these different power adapters? So we got to what we think Which is power adapters you know, all them USB-A or USB-C, and largely moving into USB-C, you know, that was Whether that's one of And what of that allowed you to do is have over a billion people, it's not a small number of people that have that connector to be able to use what they have already and not have to be disrupted- - ...by that and cause a I mean, 'cause what are you gonna do with these cables over time And again, billions of them, right? 'Cause everybody has more than one cable. And so we preferred that path. Governments, you don't get And obviously we'll have to as we do around the world But, you know, we think the environmentally and to not have a government - [Joanna] What's so good you seem very sad to see it go? - Well, it's been a great connector and over a billion people have it already. Have the cables, have what they need, have all the infrastructure have speakers that work with an ecosystem that works with it. And for most iPhone customers, it's primarily about charging. Not all- - ...but it's primarily about charging. Lightning charges pretty well. - [Joanna] Yep. Okay. All right. I guess how soon might we see it? USB-C? - Well, again, the Europeans for European customers - [Joanna] But you wouldn't in one area. - Aw, Joanna, you're trying to or at least disclose it and - [Joanna] All right. All right. We'll move on to another or in general, the iPhones. Marks 15 years of the iPhone and the pace of innovation - You're losing your visual aid. - [Joanna] I'm losing my visual aid. It's okay. - [Joanna] We we have more. We have more. There will be more. (laughter) - [Joanna] Yeah. Yeah. This isn't an Apple style presentation, but there will be more. Okay. No tracksuits, no crazy We don't have that. Back to the iPhone. 15 years. Very rapid pace of innovation at first, first five to seven years. And now it feels like things Some people say phones - [Jos] Wow. I think that's - [Joanna] Yeah. - And I agree with that. Ours are quite exciting. - Two questions. One, why does there need to be And two, where's the - Wow. Well, first of all- - And Craig, you can answer these too. - Okay. (laughter) - You know, Joanna one thing- - I mean, I wouldn't have but I think Jos did wonderfully. - One of the things that I love, and you probably heard my to the very first iPhone which didn't launch till six And yet there was a people that People are still in lines waiting for new iPhones every year. They're excited by what we do. We leave a lot of innovation, including in software and hardware, 'cause as you know, we're the People are very excited Dynamic Island. The things all the things we do with the iPhone 14, iPhone 14 Pro and it So again, I can't speak for these boring but like I said, those - [Craig] Yeah, and I'd just say that you said why every year? I think we always have I mean we've gotta get it out. I mean we've been working There's a pipeline of things that we feel are really gonna positively If we can take a better picture, that's a year of capturing with a better picture, and And every year we work the best sensors we can the best computational photography I think these matter to a lot of people. You don't have to buy a but someone is gonna decide they want the best camera they can get, that those capabilities and so we wanna give them that option. - [Joanna] Makes sense. When, I think we're so used to so being new things we can see. The iPod, the iPhone, iPad. Seems like one of your biggest I would say five years, has Tell me about why you made that decision. Why did you make the and say, &quot;We need to - Well, I mean the story of goes back further than our transition to Apple silicon on the Mac, right? This journey started with the iPhone and Apple has always deeply believed in controlling the technology to delivering the user And there's no doubt when it came to building the best phone possible, that the application processor, which integrates all the functionality, it's not just a CPU, it's not even just a graphics processor, it's a media pipeline, it's an ISP, now it's about artificial I mean, fundamental aspects of building the experience of iPhone And of course in a mobile phone, it also drives the kind of when it comes to things So controlling that was fundamental to building the right product. And our team really on the right problem that I think a lot of the industry was ignoring, which was power per watt, efficiency. Not just about peak but performance per watt. And year in year out, getting And we could chart out and where that was intersecting with what our other products needed. High-end iPads and eventually Macs. And for those of us that on being able to spec out the going from silicon to the hardware to the software that and being able to do that when it came to iPhones and iPads and having to go through what we had to go with really making a lot of when it came to silicon we we were really eager to get there when those performance lines crossed. And I think, I mean you probably We said at the time it vastly Which is a kind of crazy thing. When you go to build something, you say, &quot;I think it's gonna be this good.&quot; And then we start running the tests and we put all the pieces I mean people are coming in and going, &quot;My God, you wouldn't believe You wouldn't.&quot; And which is crazy 'cause we're pretty good But overshot and I think in all respects, our users have felt like it has exceeded all of our expectations and it is a wonderful place to be. - [Joanna] Yeah. And I think you have people who never really thought much Never really thought about Intel inside and now they have different - [Jos] Well, you know, I mean, people had a hard time believing what we were saying up on stage. And I think a lot of &quot;How can it be that much faster and give you this much more battery life?&quot; Because as Craig said, no one had really done where they focused on the power per watt. But every single journalist every single, you know, found the same conclusion, right? That it was unlike anything Faster and yet incredible battery life. And this is what we've been I mean, look, you heard of you know, have such an trying to catch up where we from a performance standpoint, and using less power than they're using. - And it's an experience thing too, beyond just battery life I think you pointed out the fans or the lack of fans. I mean, how long were we all It is serenity to have, be and not hear it, right? And that took an incredible feat- - [Joanna] It's too quiet - ...of silicon engineering. Is it too quiet now? Sorry. - It's just too quiet. - Just alone with your - Yes. If you can also make it'll be great, great. Work on that. - But that's a good point because - Talk to Johnny Srouji about that. - It's a good point. - ...it's the entire system, right? It's the ISP, it's the There's just so many that, again, is new to PCs. - So I'm gonna move to but I have a few questions and so I wanna do a rapid - Oh, we like going slow. - [Joanna] No, yeah, yeah. The clock is running out. But you get five words to - Five words- - ...for each question. I - I'm very confident in you both. - Total of 10. - If you go over... No. Okay. Will we ever see a - Who's to say? - [Joanna] Okay. - Why isn't there a - Who's to say? - [Joanna] Oh yeah, you can't, you cannot- - Now we're up to six. - [Joanna] You cannot use - There are tons of them. - [Joanna] Why doesn't Apple have a calculator app on the iPad? - We do a handful of apps - [Joanna] You never on your iPad? - I use third party apps. - I just wanna say you both I think it's time to move on. - [Joanna] Okay. Why can't Siri set two - Who's to say. - You can't keep saying, we'll ask Siri. - You didn't establish - I did not. How many iPad models - Who's to say? - All right, we're moving on from there. All right. You know but you can get more time. - In the words of the what is a computer? - Well that's the thing. she doesn't care. It doesn't matter 'cause it - [Joanna] Yeah. I'm - Where were you hoping to get? - We were getting nowhere. And I crowdsourced some The people who are watching on Twitter, I'm sorry, they're not answering. - I'm sorry, Twitter. - I'm sorry. All right, So back in 2021, you released App Tracking and it gave users more choice over sharing their data It was this, let's see. - Another prop. - Tiny, tiny popup. - Yep. We have these tiny popups all coming up on our phones, right? - Yeah. big business impact, right? Knocks billions in revenue Google, others. Did you anticipate this domino effect? - I'd say we couldn't be sure. I think we were truly just I mean, our conversations were just users. We'd been working for so more transparency and control to so many areas of the experience. And years before we'd brought Intelligent Tracking Prevention to Safari. And so we'd seen the problem and we'd been able to And we felt the world of That users should have the or even better in the world of apps. And so the privacy team we set out to change it and, you know, I think there was uncertainty about what the short term impact would be. I think we felt in the long term that quality advertising There would be innovation, some of it from us, But that journey had to start. It was what we wanted for ourselves and our friends and our family. We thought it was, people should And so that's the road we went down. - [Jos] Yeah. It's a And it's just getting the I mean, how many times have and all of a sudden you are you know, shoe companies or you're seeing, you sometimes that creeps people out. And sometimes it's not as And as you know, data on you, you know, based on that you have no idea. So all we're saying is, just get the user's permission if you're gonna send And I think that's the Obviously, if you there's an expectation that they have some information on you. The creepy part and the part didn't totally grok is no, all this information and that you don't even know exists. You know, they know And again, for some people, but at least ask your permission. - [Craig] And I think this because we knew even didn't really understand the let alone the average user. And, I mean ultimately to build these products that we wanted to do good in the world. And the idea that these that our customers maybe didn't expect, in a way that was not in their interests, that they should have a choice. And I think that was in some - [Joanna] There's been that a little bit of the as Apple, or there are reports that Apple wants to move Is that any part of the - Well I should say first. Zero part of the motivation. I can tell you, I mean, I've that are crazy and weird to read because I personally was to go down this road and none of that. This was driven by our privacy that you could watch in Apple's business year after year after year how we were stepping in area after area. This was our team going, &quot;You know, we feel protecting apps consistent with what we've done in Safari makes sense.&quot; We brought this to business and just said, &quot;Heads up everyone, you know what you're doing this year after your privacy agenda. Here's what's coming.&quot; That is where this feature - [Jos] And by the way, we're not against advertising. And by the way, we're adhering We're not sending any of to anybody without your permission. As a matter of fact, we And we give you options to even opt out of what we're keeping within the company. - [Joanna] You mean in your own apps? - In our own apps. - Yeah. So. - [Joanna] And Craig, not to cut you off but it's interesting that you Obviously those of us that watch all the (indistinct) keynotes, we sort of the privacy section, right? What is the reason for that? I mean, does it help sell more phones? Are people buying because there's privacy? - Well it's funny, it's funny you say that because for many, many years in some ways started with as a personal computer. I mean our sensibilities at Apple are, you had your computer, there was no mainframe that had your data, you owned your data. I mean, this is just so core to what sort of feels right to us. But if you go back to we put all these protections in place, said the app has to ask if they They have to ask if they You know, all of this was but something we felt And as time went on, there was a lot of not within Apple, but outside, we were in a post-privacy world, and isn't AI all about And then does anyone actually care? And within Apple we're This is what we think is right.&quot; And again, these are the You know, for my kids, I didn't want them using products that, where people were slurping up their data, sharing it all over the place. So we were constantly doing these things that I think the rest of the This is surely holding us back. You could, I'm sure you your own paper perhaps saying - [Joanna] I probably wrote it. Yeah. - [Craig] Yeah. What is Apple's problem? Like, why are they so And so it's just wild to &quot;Oh Apple, aren't you just Like what? You know, no, we're doing And you know, at the time we said, &quot;Well maybe someday when they fully become aware maybe they're gonna say, 'Well thank goodness Apple was But that has never been the reason we've done anything in this area. - [Joanna] Okay. I'm running out of time, but you guys have nothing - We came here to see you. - Really? - Okay. And go to the bar after? - Well hell yeah. - [Joanna] Okay. All right. You know, speaking of, we're talking a little bit and I wanna read you back You might have read it It was to Apples Eddy Cue, and you said, &quot;I'm concerned would simply serve to remove an obstacle to iPhone families giving Whatever happened to iMessage on Android? - I'm not aware of it shipping. - [Joanna] Yeah. You sent this email though. - [Joanna] You sent this email, you felt like maybe we 'cause other people - My feeling, and I think the whole email was clear, the back and forth with Eddy was, if we're gonna enter a market and go down the road of we have to be in it in a way That we would have a lot of customers, that we would be able to This comes at a real cost. And my fear was we weren't And so if we just shipped an critical mass on other platforms, what it would've accomplished in innovating in all the ways we wanted to innovate in and wouldn't really have accomplished much at all in any other way. And so we just felt, you know, pick where you can make a difference. Pick where you're gonna invest and do it where you'd make a difference. And this seemed like a throwaway that wasn't going to - One of the big themes of the conference and has been around the, obviously, the macro environment and return to work. And so, you know, it kind of strikes me every well who wouldn't wanna be at But you guys have returned How are you... And it sounds they don't wanna get back to the office. They do. There's this How are you managing through - Well, first of all, I think you probably know You know, so I've been Like 2020, we are mostly missed, you know, we did some filming of our events, you're familiar with those. But I started coming back and a bunch of people did. There's always gonna be a I think one of the things that we're, and people are amazed to see, is you get back and you do remember the power of collaboration. People love to tell their little anecdotes of things that they 'cause they were in a room together in front of a whiteboard. You know, there's a but Golf in the Kingdom, right? Which is a famous kind of zen golf book. And one of the things I it's what's between the holes that counts. And reality is life is not just meetings, sometimes it's what's - [Craig] 100%. It's the conversations you have. Sometimes they're social 'cause we're bonding, we're Sometimes they're that and talk on whiteboard about WebEx, you know, which we use, you know, Zoom, others people use, just But they do have a purpose, right? And they're pretty efficient So what we try to do is We have three days in the office, right? Two days that everybody's in the same day, Tuesday and Thursday there's commonality. Third day the teams can decide. I think most teams have but some are moving that around. And then the other two are And I think it's a nice blend, you know, of learning new tricks. And by the way, one of the it's a hybrid, you know, And that we'll see how it how we make things better We're Apple. We're always how to make things better. Is you would expect this is - We're better and we're - [Joanna] Is that a song? - We can write one. - [Joanna] Is that a new song? - That explains these microphones. - We got the right mic. We can dance. We got class. It's free. - [Joanna] You do look - Yes. Yeah, it's been a real- - [Joanna] It's the hair. (crosstalk) - Honestly. It's something - Yeah. All right. - But the... I mean it's strange that as we were in the pandemic you know, depression and and we talk about how our kids were devastated by the lack of connection. And yet somehow we thought That all of us wouldn't with the people with whom we're doing the most important work of our lives. I think it's crazy. And when we've been back, we are so much more effective and invigorated and happy in-between meetings and making decisions and spotting problems earlier and coming up with better ideas. And this has been fundamental to Apple's way of being forever. I mean our whole culture has been about being in building products in tight And that's who we are. And when you hear, I honestly it's a big disservice that I, what I read where people say, &quot;Apple employees don't wanna come back.&quot; What are they referring to? They're referring to a a 10th of a percent of Apple employees. Of course there's some people &quot;This is where I wanna be.&quot; It's an Apple employee. But I think a lot of us are thrilled to be able to engage with one another. And I think it's important. - Does it also mean more I was gonna just quickly ask what it's like to work for Tim Cook. Does he bother you guys on iMessage? Does he, &quot;Come to my office right now,&quot;? - Well, he's actually great by the way. - [Craig] A lot of Snapchat though. Yeah, the lenses, he's - Definitely likes in-person meetings. And I think we've some, you know, incredibly important dialogue together and together as an executive team. You know, we have a lot of time together. - We've always met together I mean that's a staple to our culture. And of course Tim leads those meetings. - How's the work on the Apple car coming? - The Apple card? The little white one? - Yeah, but the car. - Oh, I sorry, I thought 'cause Apple Card's doing quite well. I suggest you all get one, you know. Pays your money back, doesn't - Uh-huh. How about the - Air Pods? - No, see nothing rhymes with headset. - Air Pods. - They're wearable. - Spatial audio. It's - It is probably when you build I'm gonna ask you the same question I asked Evan Spiegel though. You have to finish this The metaverse is... - A word I'll never use. (laughter) - [Joanna] Craig. The metaverse is? - Yeah, I'm good with that. (laughter) - Yeah. You guys aren't new products, but I do, you at Apple, you must at some this is an RnD product, this At what point does something go from... Well I'd love you to take me but how do you get from to something that's ready to ship? Is there a process of how - Well there's a lot of you know, and sometimes they to create other things, you know. A classic example that is the We worked on that for years And as you know, and as we we were applying that before we decided to apply it to the, what became the iPhone. So it's always hard to say it's hard to say even because, well what do you mean? Because the technologies that we've been gestating - Yeah. There's so many in experiences we want to create, in fundamental technologies that could enable those experiences. Some of them are in the for years and years we know we want to get to, but the pieces aren't quite there. And then there are points where these pieces together and and we're seeing what might work. But even then to get to the final product, sometimes that's involving, the following pieces of custom And we're gonna need camera system with these sensors.&quot; And that can be years And in the end when you look it involved almost every The full breadth of the from design to silicon And what's I think so incredible about being part of it at Apple is none of us could do it And that when we decide there is an experience we want to deliver, there's a product that we want to create, it can be at that point, four and everybody is gonna align and everyone's gonna make it happen. And we will knock through because we know we all depend And I think it's, yeah, it's just amazing to be part of that group of talented people with that But it's a long process. - It is one of those, we really feel we could create it because of our ability to do, you know, incredible world class software and now world class services all combined. We think we can create things that just, it's hard to create anywhere else. - So you're imagining a car? - She's so obsessed with that Apple card. - Yeah, - Yeah. - Oh, I'll leave out Apple is still a computer company, right? Computers now are taking so What do you both wish - [Jos] I think that's a trick to get us to tell you - Yeah, 'cause if- - 'Cause it kind of goes, we can imagine it, we can create itself. I can tell you what we can We're creating it. It's a truth, Joanna. - You must work in marketing. (laughter) - That was beautiful, Jos. - Yeah. Yeah. - [Joanna] You're not gonna answer. - No. - No because it'll be 'Cause again, we, you look. - [Joanna] You can be philosophical. - No, I couldn't. - Okay, well we're gonna end there, but I wanted to thank you and so I wanted to get - Uh-oh, another prop. - Yeah, another prop. These both are a bunch of cords. See I wanted to give you both- - Cords. (laughter) - I wanted to give you my cord collection 'cause I do believe And so I wanted to give and so I give you guys - Is there a Micro USB in there? - There's all of them. - There's all of them. - Thank you guys so much for - Thank you. - Thank you guys.