There are lots of tropes and idiosyncrasies 'VIDEO GAME'. Stuff like level up systems, glowy red barrels But there's one trope that can be especially Collectibles. Collectibles have the power to be compelling They can be uniquely crafted experiences, Hmm, kinda sounds like collectibles are a We should figure out how to use them for good. Let's talk about collectibles in games and all. Or just collect 'em some. Depends on your goals. We'll get into it. Today's episode is sponsored by Audible. I use Audible to keep up with my book club, A Memory Called Empire by Arcady Martine. It's about a space station ambassador who meets their mysterious demise in a high tech and subtlety. It's really unique and fun to read, and the best sci-fi read of 2019 I guess. It's excellent, and it's on Audible. New members get access to the all-new Plus podcasts, Audible Originals, and way more, Go to www.audible.com/designdoc or text 'DESIGNDOC' free trial, and explore their Plus Catalog. Link's in the description. Collectibles at their most basic level kind So how do you get someone to do chores? You've gotta motivate them. There's a giant toolbox of techniques you into a couple of categories: Extrinsic and Extrinsic motivation is really straightforward. Give someone something to do something. It's not rocket science. Give out a reward for doing a thing. In games, that can take a few different forms. The easiest way to motivate a player to collect Do it, or else no game for you. In games like Mario 64, you can't get further Power Stars. Obviously, if you do it wrong, this is a little Motivating through coercion is not a great If you're forcing a player to do something game. Mario 64 does two crucial things to get around a list of stars to collect, and you don't Without both those system features, players and bail out of the game entirely. That structure was tweaked in Mario Sunshine. Collecting shine sprites will eventually unlock but most shines don't impact the story progress You have to complete the 7th episode on every Lots of players would like to skip some of push through if you want that final stage Everything else, every other shine, is technically On the other extreme is Rayman 1. Rayman 1 has collectibles of a sort with these The game makes a big deal out of destroying ignoring them if you want. For a while. The game has a nasty trick up its sleeve. To get to the final boss, you have to get A lot of the cages suck to find and are hidden and it's super easy to get frustrated and game. The later Rayman games adopted a simple threshold Good move. Another extrinsic way to get people collecting In many action-adventure games, the collectibles give you bonus experience, items, cosmetics, Think of things like the Golden Skulltula puppies in Kingdom Hearts. Gather enough stuff, and you unlock something for the rest of the game. Spider-Man has several side quests focused tokens to unlock costumes and upgrades. The collectibles act as a breadcrumb trail. Every individual collectible is a clear step Yooka-Laylee and the Impossible Lair's bees and improvements. The game's final stage is the titular Impossible your skills. You can try your luck whenever you want, but to collect the bees, you'll gain more hit The system is both a way to improve your character the game. There's a segment of players who tend to find. For them, an elaborate reward for completing make the time spent collecting it all feel Mario Galaxy's reward for gathering all - Super Luigi Galaxy. You get to do the whole game over again as No it's not just a palette swap! Luigi has a few changes that make the game has mastered the rest of the game. The Crash Bandicoot series has always had its collectible gems. Crash 4 brought the game into the new era, A lot! A lot a lot! The volume and difficulty of the gems in Crash Each of the 38 stages have 6 gems apiece to for meeting conditions throughout the stage. 3 gems for collecting 80% of the fruit in One more for getting through it in 3 lives That one's tougher but doable. There's a hidden gem somewhere.. Uh... THERE it is. BUT THEN THERE'S THIS GUY. The gem for destroying every single box in Yeah, these have been a staple in the series, There are three main problems. Number One: The stages are much larger in the size of the original trilogy. There are usually well over 100 boxes to break Number Two: They hid them very, very well. Look at this. Whether the boxes blend into the background, to hit a switch and then backtrack (god I'm boxes in this game are much harder to find Number Three: There are also tons of 'do like on-rail and chase sequences, on top of With boxes to get. You need borderline perfect execution to hit Miss one, and you'll need to go back to It can be 10 to 20 minutes combing a stage one and have no way to go back. Plus, even if you get them all you're not The additional "N. Verted' stages are uh... helpful visual filters. It's the exact same challenge, just repeated PLUS, there are even more side stages that might need to go through some segments 4 times It's all optional, thank goodness, but it trying to see everything in the game. Extrinsic motivation can be real blunt. A big sledgehammer of a tool. But what if you're looking for a way to more refined? A little more personal? Maybe your collectible system could use some Instead of encouraging players by giving out by getting a player to want to complete a The collectible is there to mark a journey You could start with the absolute basics: visual effect when it's collected. A dance might do the trick. It sounds shallow, and it is. But it works. Anything that makes the collecting of the more satisfying. But we can go deeper. Intrinsic rewards focus on the journey, not Collecting a game's collectibles can create collectible itself is just the mint at the This fits great with games that focus on movement Strategically placed collectibles can be incentives get somewhere a little tougher than normal otherwise. Celeste is very upfront about its optional They don't unlock anything. The ending is a little different depending nothing extrinsic to be had here, and yet The strawberries are placed in very hard-to-reach your character's movement mechanics, they They're an extra layer of optional challenge, the time, the strawberries work as a pretty test just what you can do. Banjo-Kazooie's collectibles don't really encourage exploration. The game still has one of the better designed Mario 64 was the blueprint for the 3D collect-a-thon concept. Sure it has plenty of extrinsic progression Jiggies, and so on. But it's amazing just how fun and relaxing out the collectibles on every stage. Going for 100% completion is how the game The nice little chimes and fanfares when you star is how the collectibles are placed. The notes serve as a breadcrumb trail to all collectibles like the Jinjos and Jiggies. There's a flow to how they're all placed and your character's movement, always there you might not have thought to try otherwise. Breath of the Wild is on the other end of It's NOT meant to be a game that you 100%. The sheer volume of stuff you'd have to collect 136 shrines, 226 named locations, 394 things seeds are more than the game reasonably expects But just because there are so many things just as purposefully as Banjo-Kazooie. Breath of the Wild is a celebration of exploration you into following the game's cycle of exploration. A peak leads to an item. An item suggests another place to go. Overcoming the travel guides you to more places as milestone rewards, which lead you to more happy with the amount of time you've put into If it's a lot, great. If it's a little, that's fine too. The game's ending isn't barred behind collecting The goal for collecting them all isn't even... The collectibles are the catalyst for interacting to take action, and just taking it all in. It supports the game's deeper goal, to convey to complete. Before Crash 4 came along, the king of overbearing It's another Rare collect-a-thon, though any system have been thrown out the window for The worst offender is how every collectible of collectibles that dot each level. 5 golden bananas per character and tons of and coins among others, each with their own abilities and other goodies. The rewards are fine but with so many things Wherever there's space, there's a collectible. And since they can only be grabbed by one stage up to 5 times to get everything. This sort of filler set of collectibles can to interact with the system you've built. OK, now you know how important extrinsic and system. That's a good start, but there's one more You have to support the system with useful Even if a game has great collectibles, intrinsically tools can still undercut how much collecting Some systems tie deeply into the context of You could learn a lot from Pokemon. A massive driving force in the earlier generations It acts as a checklist for what Pokemon you've seen but haven't caught, a lore dump, and the 'Gotta Catch 'Em All' philosophy Even if you can't build something as deeply other games support their collectibles systems Spyro's dragonfly just points you towards For collectibles that are both hidden and that you don't run into the 'needle in Spyro's gems are finite but numerous, and to retrace your steps over and over to catch Mario Odyssey tries to fix the same problem They work as two tiers of hints that can guide The Talkatoo names the moons, akin to the enough, the Hint Toad will just tell you where They give an in-game release valve for the checklist while not completely eliminating The Purple Coins in Odyssey show what happens Purple coins are finite and necessary for way to point you to them. Unless you buy a Bowser Amiibo. Not cool. At least the purple coins are easy to spot, Worse are the figments in Psychonauts. They're unique collectible multicolored images It's a really neat idea, and they add some they're very obnoxious to collect. They're all hard to spot, and there are basically a terrible needle-in-the-haystack problem. Another problem is when there's a mismatch get you to do, and what the game's mechanics Sonic Advance 2 hides its true Final Boss Chaos Emeralds, so you better get 'em. Each is in a special stage, and to get to one special go. Find them all, hidden throughout the stage, OK, doesn't sound too bad yet. Maybe you forgot that it's Sonic. Sonic isn't built to explore. He's gotta go fast. TOO fast. Sonic Advance 2 loves blinding speed and has And it's built for a console prone to some You can't see all that far ahead of you. Take the wrong route? Miss a specific jump and now you can't go Too bad. Some characters aren't suited to explore ones like Tails and Knuckles who have better a way to track these stupid rings. Without a guide, you have to trial-and-error right path to find and get each ring in the for a chance to get a chaos emerald. Even if you do it right, if you fail in the again. At least you only have to do it once... UNLESS YOU WANT THE SECRET 5TH PLAYABLE CHARACTER. Do it all again 3 more times. You said no? So did I. ACTION REPLAY BABY! So that's some of the basics of how to motivate There are countless more games we didn't Let us know in the comments, and we might With the right tools and the right motivation *chill vibes outro from A Short Hike*