(rock skipping) - What is the scientifically This is kinda hard to figure out because every rock you not to mention your throwing motion might accidentally vary in between throws. And so, to solve that, I built a perfect rock-skipping robot with my nieces and nephews. So today I'm gonna show you how we used what we learned to improve their throws on Let's get started. (upbeat music) This is Lake Cavanaugh. It's located here in Washington State. I came here every summer for a few weeks as a kid growing up, and my memory of it is to be outdoors and to be with family, but to also discover my independence. (upbeat music) And of course, to find a (children laughing) Including rock skipping. And this was my first So to commemorate that, I wanted to build something really cool. So we took a clay pigeon thrower and tweaked the spring and and then made some custom Then we created a base for stability. And now all that was left and nephews to a rock skipping contest. Only I might have neglected to Actually, forget this. (crowd laughing) - [Mark] You guys ready? - [Crowd] Three, two, one. (Mark yelling) - So it actually wasn't that impressive right out of the gate, because for this video, I wanted to pull back the curtain on some secrets about the There are four steps I I've ever built on this The first is research. I will go online and look watch any videos on the or email with any experts I can find. That usually gives me a And so the next step is A good prototype is cheap so you can try a lot of different things. And then step three is to do a sensitivity That means we try lots of to see what actually And only at that point what we've learned and move to step four, which is building the final version. (children screaming) So often, people want to which usually won't work, but because you have no confidence that you're close to the optimal design. For the rock-skipping robot, I'd already done steps one and two. So we all sat down and and all the things we could tweak to find the right conditions Eventually we came up with but before we did that, I was told the robot needed (upbeat music) With mission clearly accomplished, here are the four variables The first was wrist angle of the robot. This will change the angle of the rock relative to the water, So should it be perfectly flat or really steep or something in between? Next was finding the right arm angle. This changes the angle of the path of the rock relative to the water. So is this better, or is this better, or something in between? The last two variables but since every rock we needed a way to control this. So we decided to make our own That allowed us to make lots of samples and to see how many if you varied either the And if you've ever seen a you know clay is just dirt and water. This is great because it means it has a similar density to a rock. And if you dry it in the But then it only takes about 30 minutes to totally dissolve away Then we set up a testing plan, and for each throw, we and then count the number of skips. That way if we suddenly we know it would be from the That's where having a robot is because it allows you to independently change one thing at a time. And so as you can imagine, that looked like this, or this, or this. But then we started to narrow and then they started Yeah! That's what's up! Woo! (upbeat music) And I'm not exactly sure you count all those little skips at the I would think we got some (upbeat music) And so, in the end, we to achieving the perfect rock skip. The first is that you want relative to the water This is the optimal to sort of crash into the and then use its forward momentum to ride up that ramp and shoot And that's the exact physics Next, you want the path of your rock relative to the water's This means you sort of need which gives you some potential energy to put into the system, in the same way a ball will bounce more times than Now, before making this video, I assumed you wanted to throw as low and parallel to the water but actually, the ideal throw looks something more like this. Here's the guy who holds the throwing from a bridge to demonstrate you don't need a super low throw to the water to have it skip. The third key is to flick as much as possible to get it spinning. As you know, spinning This is because they have angular momentum and resist having it changed, according to Newton's first law. So spinning, and therefore, because it will maintain that with the water, as you can see here. If it's not spinning enough, it will rotate over and then sink. And finally, rock choice is important, but not in the way I originally thought. Primarily, it just needs to be flat on the bottom to create that ramp. But shape and diameter The heavier the better because you put more but not so big that you can't of your arm by the time This is especially important for kids. They'll see much more success And I should also mention and checked a couple of papers we discovered about rock skipping. And for the most part, it matched really closely to And so armed with our new knowledge, I put all the nieces and nephews through rock skip bootcamp into their muscle memories. And while it started a bit rough, they all eventually graduated. (upbeat music) And the clay discs tended to So we trained with those first, and then graduated to actual rocks, and the principles translated perfectly. And so after our hard workout, like all true performance So there you have it. In addition to learning hopefully you picked up some tips on the engineering design process. People ask me all the time, I have an egg drop competition coming up. Here are the materials I can use. What's the best solution? I don't know, no one does without running some tests because it depends on the or maybe the brand and or how you actually put it together. So you should do some and then make a bunch of prototypes and do small changes on each to see what matters and what doesn't. And only then go back and build your final that you're gonna (drone whirring) (upbeat music) (men laughing)