Hello everyone, I've been thinking about shooting and sharing a project with you for a long time. Today, we are ready to share with you. As you can see from the table and the title of the video, anyone who wants will be able to produce their own electricity or have the appropriate equipment for this. What you need to do is to reference this video and all the details as much as I can I want to share with you right now there is an alternator in front of me. That is, there is a permanent magnet generator that we can produce your own electricity, and we made this generator by converting our generator to a three-phase asynchronous motor. So what you see is actually a standard three-phase motor. However, the rotor part of this motor has been reworked and magnets have been placed And Of course, there are some changes in the coils here, this is what I will talk about, now it can generate electricity . We have the rotor part decorated with Neodymium magnets . As we face here, the magnets are placed on the banana from the vertical position so that the magnets are one S and one N, friends, so the same poles will not come out. So one S one N one S one N-shaped rotor completely 360deg all around is changed, I show it like this, by the way , welded from the table The camera is shaking a little, sorry guys. As you can see, the whole rotor is placed around the magnets as N and S. There are two important things we need to pay attention to here, friends. First , we make sure that the magnets are N and S, and the second will be an even number . If there were two of them, they would come side by side, but as you can see, our channels here continue in the form of an even number of N and an S. The second point we need to pay attention to is that there are friends who make such projects on the internet, but if you are aware of the rotor here, friends are made without welding, especially Neodymium magnets. I want to draw attention to this by talking about the structure of the rotor. Look, I'm showing the rotor closely, you can see the epoxy resin adhesive here . From here, by milling into the channels. The rotor you see is carved as much as the depth of the magnet and the Neodymium magnets are glued into the channels, only by grinding. The edges are corrected a little bit here. It can work , it can produce energy because it doesn't lose its magnetic feature with this magnet, but because its magnetic feature is weakened, the energy produced can also work. It will decrease in parallel, friends , let's share this little detail with you guys, the rotor here is placed in the channels here with resin glue, as it should be, without using welding . You can open these channels by calculating it easily, or in your environment . that is, the less the distance between the roton here and the stator here, the more the efficiency of the system will increase. Because how much magnetic energy can you transfer to the coils here. your generator here until your alternator will be strong . You can see the body of the coil. The change made in the coils makes the coil wires a little thicker than the standard and the number of turns is increased a little more , so friends get more current thanks to the thick coil, while the increase in the number of turns causes the voltage to increase. we get voltage, this is the main logic, so you need to modify this place too , can you use it by simply changing the rotor without modifying it here ? If you synchronize good coils better, for example, you can get detailed results at 300, but the current alternator I use gives its maximum performance from 3 kilowatts and 500 revolutions, friends, we will place this rotor, which we have prepared, into the alternator, in this way , I want to share with you the energy it produces by placing it in its slot and turning it off . we can pass , I will be together with you after I collect the alternator, we have closed the back cover of the alternator, you can see the front cover right now, friends, I will close the front cover here, I want to show you the event I just mentioned Look, these magnets pass close enough to touch the stator blocks here , so they are very millimetric. There is a gap. Let me say what makes this alternator superior to others, or rather, one of the features that makes it superior to other handmade alternators is the use of resin from here, Neodymium magnets. Friends, now we will mount our front cover on the bearing here again, and after fixing it . The important thing here is, friends, as I said, you should turn the mutual videos in a very balanced way. So if you are bored, we make sure that the cover is properly seated. somehow, the human being prepared for the rotor part here, everything will fall into place anyway . I gathered the alternator and got it ready to work, I'm showing it like this, you guys can see the outputs like this, we can turn it in our hands when it's idle, either it's too much strain or It doesn't work, but depending on the load you draw from here, it applies a resistance on the shaft here, friends. This is a very normal thing, because the more load you draw , the more resistance will appear here. We have an output, you can see the outputs here, we can get a total of three kilowatts of energy, each of which is 1000watt, and I only used the first output today . I will use a 220 volt 100 watt incandescent filament lamp. I especially use it because the led lamps will light up easily for less power attractor . You can see my lamp, you can see that even when I turn it with my hand, you can see that the lamp is on. Friends, now I will connect a rechargeable drill here , I will apply a lot of power Because it knows with very little power, I want you to see that it can produce energy as you know it. I'm starting the delivery right away Guys, let's show it again, look at it again , we are included in the lower right cycles, it writes beautifully, now the cordless screwdriver I'm taking it to the next level and we'll test it this way, now we're testing it again guys, you can see it burns clearly again, I'm doing the same process as you can see, very successful it works somehow, if you want, let's continue by measuring the voltage and frequency at the outputs, since the power of the charged drill in my hand is not too much, I have unloaded the load, friends, I am getting my output from here . I'm ready to measure this, I'm ready to measure, I took the meter to automatic mode Friends, now we start by running the alternator, the last e174 volts, we try at very low revs and get results, I'm in my hands, it gives about 220 volts easily Friends , this song is 225 volts, 200 volts in the future, I said 200 volts wrong Now these are pretty good values at this point for now Friends, for the continuation of such videos, I will act according to the state of interest in the video If you also get interest, I will do different videos with different alternators in this style, this type of continuation, I will do different projects. Goodbye for now, don't forget to subscribe to support and like and share my videos