- On the first day of racing school, you'll learn that the racing around the track. Well guess what? Just like a bunch of other That's total (beep). It's like Newtonian Thanks for messing that one up They don't want you to know winning isn't about following The best drivers in because they don't follow the racing line. And today we're gonna figure So if you ever wanna be a you better stick around, (upbeat music) Thank you to Off The Record Listen up like my colleague, best lawyer, friend and occasional big coppers are going to be out in They'll be keeping an eye out for you. Yeah I'm talking about you and Nathaniel. They got a fast, easy, to fight your traffic They even offer a full refund. If they're not able to either reduce or keep that ticket off your record. So enjoy your holiday and It's a 10% off your first ticket at offtherecord.com/donut. A successful race car driver That's the art and science of winning. And it requires knowing and even psychology of racing. But the most basic part is the geometry of racing, because that's how you begin It's day one in developing Lewis Hamilton he's on day 10,000. So you need to pay attention So what is the geometric racing line? Well, that's the theoretically And it's all about grip To understand why consider and around in a circle. The faster the car goes, the That's because the car's and it runs wide from its original path. If the car slows down, its and it can make tighter circles. As the car speeds up, it's and it can't stay on that circle. The faster this car goes, has to be to prevent a loss of grip and the car spinning off the path. Car cornering on a racetrack For every corner there are multiple paths or lines a driver could choose. Now I could follow the inside because that circle has a short radius. Or I could follow the outside because the circle has a longer radius. But there's a path with and that's the geometric racing line. The geometric line relative to the track. The driver enters the steering towards the apex to move back towards track outpoint. Geometrically this creates It follows the largest circle through any corner. That's because the driver is using the least amount of grip necessary to overcome the car's inertia and therefore able to The maximum cornering is the square root of times the force of gravity and or more simply grip. So if the radius of the circle increases, so does the max velocity, if your velocity exceeds that has to increase or you But if you increase grip, you for the same radius. Or I guess if you could just you'd have maximum corner speed, but that's just crazy or is it? The geometric racing line around the corner, but driving that line doesn't always win races, So why? Well, one reason is because is what a physicists That's a mathematical model, the most basic parts of a complex system. Because it makes assumptions it doesn't accurately in the real world. So what sort of assumptions are made here? Well, for one, the corners On a Formula One track, most They come in all shapes and sizes. You know all corners are beautiful to me. Some with increasing radii, some would do both. Corners also come in groups or complexes and the geometric line onto a slower line for Another assumption is that remains the same. In a real world grip is a result of tires and a track surface. And both of those things along the racetrack. As the surface changes in your grip changes. As the tires angle changes your grip changes. The amount of grip is constantly changing, and the simple model of the geometric line doesn't account for this. There are also important and left out of the tour model cars have four tires and the identical between them. One reason why the drift because the front tires have Differences in grip like this are often because of the distribution Another fact omitted from the model. As the car breaks, turns and accelerates its weight transfers side When the way of the car they gain grip and others lose it. F1 cars also produced which isn't evenly Downforce effectively as speed increases and that's So the racing line might but the actual line isn't It's based on three things, the ever changing track and the specific details that In other words, if you're Lewis Hamilton, you drive based on race craft, and that tells you how to to make a race winning line. Think about that circle again. The maximum speed for any turns coefficient of friction and and the surface. So if tires remain the same, the top speed for a hundred on a tarmac versus ice coefficient of friction. Knowing what the maximum on that surface is a But that's still missing that separate a simple mathematical model from a real F1 racetrack. Actual racetracks are bumpy. They have pavement seams and curves that can launch a car off An airborne tire has relative to the track of zero. Zero friction means zero grip. Tracks also get hotter and grippier as the temperature increases But as the sun angle moves, shaded section of the tarmac can cool off. The breaking zone for a while the exit is slippery because of the temperature differences. Also the parts of the track they get rubbered in Those areas get grippier because between your tires and the is higher than between And in Formula One, get more slippery as marbles. Those are loose chunks of rubber collect at the edge of the track surface. Turning some ideal fast lap but it won't when you race this. For that, you got to know how to pass and how to keep your opponents behind you. If you guessed, get off the racing line, give yourself freaking a like and subscribe and I appreciate it. Understanding other cars and their drivers is a huge part of race craft. And champions know that when you can't stick to the racing line. So suppose you're Hamilton, and he's managing to stay off So should Hamilton stay on the line too? Well, not if he wants to win. To pass he'll have to take a slower line, but one that puts him in front. Slow to go fast. Before every turn which is where you have if you wanna take the ideal line. That's what Mazepin is going to do. But Hamilton is gonna overshooting the normal breaking point. And instead of following the he's going to move to the He'll be turning after the turning point at a much sharper angle Now this passing line than the ideal racing line, but Hamilton he'll end up and wrecking what should have So how could Mazepin if defend his position. A better defensive line is to the inside edge of the track but far enough outside to maintain as much speed as possible. Again, it's a slower line but it's one way that champions These are two simple examples lines, which like the geometric line don't include lots of There are many other strategies too, and whether any one will work or not, will depend on a lot of factors, differences in power and whether the corner is even how much race is left and can change the winning strategy. But all those strategies and when to deviate from the racing line and all of them only work when the drivers are competent insane, because depends on the other driver Race craft it also includes on the fastest line or doesn't matter if it end your race. Finally, of course, knowing of track conditions and how if a driver doesn't understand their car. Formula One cars have some which means the winning from the geometric racing line. F1 cars can accelerate from in under 10 seconds. They can also generate but they're limited to some on the planet. Designed to degrade a full two seconds slower So a winning strategy has Limiting wear to maintain for 20, 30, 50, or more laps, even if no single line is That requires using a sharper turn-in and later apex. But why would you wanna do that? Well, because F1 tires than braking or accelerating, that's because when a tire is turning, it's sliding sideways just a level, the rough road and it's constantly removing from the slipping tire. This type of wear doesn't happen under ordinary braking or accelerating. So one way to make tires last is to spend as little time as possible turning. In an F1 car, you can do that braking force to over slow then turn turning harder to spend less overall time and rely on the massive at corner exit and beyond. This line has some other and Hamilton is an expert at because he's breaking he can apply brakes later on the straight, that makes this a good line and passing, also because he spending longer on the on the straights. That's also a result of the The cars pointed straight So full throttle on the straights leading Hamilton he's a seven time world champion because of his race craft. And a huge part of that It saves tires helps with straight-line speeds, and that leads to more consistent, faster laps. The end result is higher than if he followed the line to produce the fastest single lap time. Formula One drivers and like Mr. Hamilton, understand their opponents and the special mean that they can throw The racing line will only get you so far, in an F1, it definitely Here's me on the podium. Oh yeah the crowd's going wild. (people cheering) Yeah, hmm, yeah I put a it's a wreath. Thank you guys so much for Follow us here on Donut at Donut Media. Follow me on Instagram at Jeremiah Burton. If you wanna see some extra follow me on TikTok, my name is suckmytruck. They didn't have uncle Jerry, Till next week, bye for now.