- Tonight, my friends, of a feat unparalleled I will travel where no - Into the black hole? - Why, that's crazy! (groaning) - Black holes are the They're not really a thing, but rather a region of spacetime folded into an embrace so tight that even light is forever ensnared. And it's this nihilism for theoretical physics, one which could unravel of the universe itself. How does a black hole trap light? If I throw a ball into the to Earth due to gravity following a curve, or at least to me it looks like a curve. But really the ball is also called a geodesic, and it's spacetime that's truly curved. It's the mass of the Earth and if we made it heavier, then and thus the ball would appear back to the ground. Curiously then, although as a force, in this picture there is no force, just curved spacetime. Now, if I threw the ball hard and thus take longer to come back down. And if I threw it really hard, that it totally escaped Earth's gravity and flew out into deep space. The minimum speed needed to achieve this is known as the escape velocity, and classically it can be solved by setting the kinetic energy of the ball equal to its gravitational In 1783, John Mitchell did He predicted that there which is so great that the escape velocity Mitchell called these dark stars, but nobody really took them very seriously until GR came along. That's Einstein's theory While serving for Germany Karl Schwarzschild found a solution to GR, something that Einstein did not expect to be achieved so easily, but his solution of these dark stars, something considered and many others. By 1971, the astronomical provided the first evidence of the math, but a real phenomenon, a black hole as physicist John Of course, since then of observational support from x-ray binaries to from gravitational wave These enigmas that were are now understood to to the universe, for example, with a super massive black hole appearing to be located in Before we explore further, let's just take a quick Finding good B-roll for esoteric topics like black holes and quantum theory and all the other stuff isn't easy. If you are a creator like me, then the sponsor of is an invaluable tool in the editing room. Storyblocks offer unlimited downloads of diverse and high quality media for a single subscription cost, no extra charges for individual clips. We create B-roll clips from Sci-Fi films, but there's And trust me, this is the slowest and most painful part of editing, Not only do Storyblocks but they've also got Premiere Pro, and DaVinci, as well as royalty free music, To get started with unlimited at one set price, head to storyblocks.com/coolworlds. Just that little action helps us out too. Once again, that is Now back to the video. Black holes are intoxicating because of their Anything that falls in can never come out, but that also raises a problem. They seemingly destroy In quantum theory, a basic which essentially states that all processes are, For example, if I throw it will quickly smolder, into fine particles of smoke and ash. In principle, unitarity to collect up all of those particles, piece them back together and reconstruct every word on every page. Of course, in practice you'd but in theory, it is possible. This principle of unitarity is often cast as a conservation akin to the conservation laws that we have for energy and momentum. But really, it's best to think of it as a statement of reversibility. Starting from some initial state, we should be able to and vice versa, from the final state, we can go back and hence reversible. The black holes are the to the principle of unitarity. If I throw a book into the black hole, then those words, that information becomes trapped within from which nothing can escape. It's true that the book's mass will cause a slight ripple in spacetime as it falls in, like the observed by LIGO recently. But it turns out that do not carry enough to reconstruct the words on the page. Now, as that book falls far beyond the event horizon, it will eventually reach the singularity. We usually think of the the center of ablack hole. But really, the warping of spacetime is so severe here that And really, the singularity as a future moment in time, a point in our future from anymore than we can avoid What happens when you is anyone's guess, general relativity explodes This uncertainty gave us this hope that the apparent destruction Maybe the information just near the singularity or something. At the end of the day, because black holes and hence, we never actually have to deal with this information loss. This convenient excuse fell apart when Stephen Hawking came along and showed that black as initially assumed. Quantum theory demands The event horizon is just and like all empty space, Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle allows for the spontaneous fizzling in and out of existence. Usually, these particles form and merge within the briefest of intervals popping in and out of existence, so fast that the universe doesn't have a chance But if this particle of the event horizon, one can fall in and the other can escape. From the outside, the black hole seems which means by e equals mc This Hawking radiation are gradually, very, very and thus they will eventually die. It's an unsettling thought. Not only do stars eventually die, but even black holes one day perish. So the fact that black holes die means that we cannot that they gobbled up. By the principle of unitarity, we expect reversibility, so I should be able to collect like the smoke and ash from the fire and reconstruct the book. But Hawking radiation doesn't comply, which can be understood in two ways. First, according to general relativity, a black hole can be completely described by just three numbers, its mass, its spin, and its charge. It has no surface features, no texture, and we call this the no-hair theorem. As a result, the Hawking can be thought of as purely and in fact, the temperature of that heat is completely governed by So if we collected up all we could reconstruct the mass of everything that fell into but we wouldn't be able to of the particles that go into that mass. We couldn't reconstruct the book. The second way to understand this is through quantum entanglement. When a pair of particles they are always entangled. This means that they are described but by just one joint way function, which describes the So for example, this that the sum of the spins of but it doesn't tell us which one is up nor which one is down. When we measure one of the entanglement breaks and this measured particle is forced to choose one which instantaneously to choose the opposite state. In this way, the ledger remains a balance. We don't accidentally end up By the way, if you're wondering, for faster than light communication, see our earlier video as to why. Now for Hawking radiation, this to getting information Let's say that I threw into a For this information to escape, we can imagine one Hawking at some later time and and then at an even later time, one carrying away the information Y. But the problem is how does that second emitted and not X? That implies that it somehow knows that X has already been emitted. So to keep apprised of the full ledger of emitted information, we need these emitted particles to be entangled to one another. Fine, but there's the problem, because remember that those are already entangled to that fell into the black hole. And entanglement, like lobsters, There's no mistresses They cannot be polygamously entangled. So this means that we have a paradox. Now, whenever we have a paradox, we can typically resolve them by removing one of the assumptions upon which the paradox sits. So for example, with the which is where are all the aliens, we can resolve that by trivially that aliens exist. Paradox resolved. - No! No! (glass breaking) - So what are the assumptions here? Well, there are three basic ingredients, the principle of unitarity, and then on top of that, we have the equivalence The equivalence principle is that if someone fell from a roof, they would not feel their own weight as if there were no gravity. A consequence of this is that when someone of a black hole, they wouldn't actually They wouldn't notice any demarcation. So that means that outside the black hole we have just empty space. And, similarly, on the horizon, we also just have empty space, hence why Hawking The third preset is locality, which is the trickiest to explain, but essentially says that if the sound, the splash, don't happen everywhere at once, they are localized to a specific point. It's pretty hard to without locality. And so you can see that are foundational to modern physics, and it would be painful So which is it? Well, we don't know, but certainly many physicists have come up with many different ideas. For example, in a famous wager by Hawking and Kip Thorne against John Preskill, they hedged that the information that falls into the black hole was irretrievably lost to the universe, although it has to be said that Hawking later and conceded the bet. Roger Penrose is in this camp too. And indeed, his conformal which is a kind of critically depends on the condition that information is in fact But today, most of the community believe that unitarity is preserved and somehow the information which means we have to update our theories of how black holes work. There are many ideas out there. There are several variations of the information simply and this could be a baby episodes where the black hole that spits out information or that the black hole is in fact a wormhole to somewhere else. Recently, the idea of many has been suggested. Perhaps the particle that falls in enters a tiny wormhole that carries it back out, and that's why we see Hawking radiation. Zooming out, it's also been suggested that information is indeed but at the multiverse level, Personally, anything involving multiverses feels like any media cop out, it's kinda like saying aliens did it. And anything involving wormholes which Hawking argued was sacred, but Hawking did concede the bet, remember. So what persuaded him that As strange as it sounds, a path towards resolution - What about the droid - In 1993, Leonard Susskind of black hole complementarity. Someone who falls into the black hole indeed seems to carry their and eventually reach But someone watching from the outside of the black hole wouldn't see this because of the extreme they would see the astronaut actually seem to slow down in time as they approach the horizon and eventually even seem to freeze there. They wouldn't actually Yet more, their light is redshifted and warped around the black hole. From the outside, the in to be smeared across the horizon Eventually, their information reradiates from this thin layer back out into space as Hawking radiation, and thus information is conserved. But this picture seems to violate and contradict the Susskind suggested that and although they contradict, they can never actually come together to note the discrepancy, and thus the universe is This creates the strange idea that the information is stuck there, hovering in this incredibly thin layer just above the surface But a surface is a 2D geometry, and we usually think of Surely, a 3D object contains than the 2D surface. It turns out not. In fact, this has now that the information can always be completely Indeed, this has now been generalized to basically everything. All 3D volumes must follow this rule. They can never hold more which can be contained Yet more, if you try to, you'd which also of course adheres to this rule. This is a holographic principle that all 3D phenomena can to a 2D representation. We are all holograms, empty projections, just ghostly shells, nothing more. This equivalency, formally known as the anti-de Sitter/conformal is a stunning result, but it doesn't actually prove that we are all truthfully holograms, merely that this is an explanation which is fully compatible with everything we know Nevertheless, it was to concede the bet. The unitarity principle But in its place we sacrificed one of those other three because now what originally are all in fact collapsed But perhaps Hawking was as Kip Thorne thought, because despite the progress Remember that Hawking radiation stems from the particle pairs produced in the vacuum near the horizon, and thus they are monogamously entangled. And also remember that information leakage requires the Hawing radiation particles to be entangled to each So we still have an apparent contradiction that requires solving, and as always, the best is to let go of one of your assumptions. What if the Hawking radiation particles do not emerge from an empty vacuum, but instead from a something? In that case, the sum need not be zero, like spin up, spin down. Instead, they could sum to something because they didn't come from nothing, they came from something. In this way, information can whilst preserving the The implication is unsettling, there must exist a fiery thin which incinerates anything that tries to fall into the black hole. If this idea bothers you, it should. Many physicists don't like it. After all, this violates being incinerated at the event horizon is hardly Einstein's happiest thought, and so many physicists are still reaching for Those baby universes don't sound quite so A deeper issue in all of this is that yes, we can come up with many to resolve the information paradox, but how do we prove them? Obviously, flying into but you'd discover the answer You know, it would be insisted upon this as the only to unlock her secrets. The ultimate deal with the devil. - The equation couldn't with quantum mechanics, - More what? - More data, you need to - In principle, studying since we can measure its but Hawing radiation is so pitiful that there's really no hope of We'd have to build a micro black hole in the laboratory for this, and such energy scales are and so it's quite possible that for a very long time, a puzzle of which we can dream up many allowed mathematical solutions to, but frustratingly, we just But working on this is like the holographic principle are changing the way we and providing new mathematical tools to make further progress. In truth, studying black for a unified theory of quantum gravity, the secret sauce to the Who knew that studying something so dark could reveal so much? So until next time, stay (electronic upbeat music) Hey, thank you so much for I hope you enjoyed it. Be sure to hit the like If you wanna become a the Cools Worlds Lab, you can use the link up above, down below, I sincerely appreciate it, and if you haven't already just go to Cools World Podcast on YouTube. Again, link's down below Thanks again for watching.