This is Lisa. What are you going to teach us today? I'll be showing you how Rembrandt painted different materials. And I'll be doing this by painting the Maria Trip. Wow, not so fast Lisa! I'm making an imprimatura, It actually helps you in painting the skin.. that's why it's a bit light and yellowish I've prepared another panel because it takes And also I've transferred the I'm applying a really 17th century palette.. So I'm starting with white, ocre, different types of yellow. Very bright red. more dark, lake red, an azure like color. And earth green, which in this case is a saph green.. We're cheating. This is a raw umber, for the background. The burned umber and we end with a black. I'm now fixing the under drawing with pigment.. and also these lines. And I'm doing this with a burnt amber, this darker brown. After you have the under drawing like this fixed with pigment.. you use a broader brush, larger brush. You make the paint water mixable. While you paint you make it more wet. for instance in the chin where it's pretty dark. This way you can also let it give a Rembrandt also uses a red ocre for the under drawing. I haven't got that on my palette yet so I will add it. Also, this red ocre will be very watery, very thin. You use it to give another tone to the hairs for instance. I'll also use it to make some more details here in the eyes. This is the red that's used for some Then you can continue like this for the whole painting. with a dark brown and a red brushing on top of it. When you finished your under painting you can start painting the background Like this. I'm using the fan brush again is a broad, bit coarse brush to do this with. You can continue making your under painting.. with burnt umber and red ocre. Then you've really made the background I've already prepared it. I will now continue with the raw umber.. because you also see it in the garment she's wearing. But with that we already really start with making the fabrics. I will now now continue with the raw umber In the top layers. It's here. We use it to start painting the gown. When you've painted a part, and you can smoothen the brush strokes, I will now start with the black of the gown.. 'cause it's one of the first things that has to dry.. because later on I'll partially want to paint I'll just make it very basic, all black. I will now paint the skin. The skin tone in the 17th century.. as Rembrandt painted it, was often with white and ocre. Then you can add some reds and browns to it. You only need a very tiny bit of red Now I'm outlining the shadow of the pearl necklace. I've painted the shadow with a red ocre underneath, I've painted more skin than is visible on the painting.. because you see it underneath the lace. You want that same color to be present. I'll continue with the face. Painting more details. I have now painted the hands like I painted the face. So a thin layer of yellow, ocre and white, You can see that it's pretty transparent, that was already on the panel. I need some extra shadow. I'll add some raw umbers and a bit of the greenish brown. Very thinly, to deepen the shadow parts. - How do you know if you have to write I check the example, the original painting.. so that I can see that there are some more lights. I'll now add some extra red detail again around the eyes.. and a bit of red on the cheek. I'm now painting the eyes, the white in the eyes. I'll now finish the eyes, the lips, and the rest of the face. I'm now using black and burnt umber to make the eyes stand out. There's of course the red in the corner of the eye. Now adding some highlights. The highlights on the nose I'll blend in a bit again, Then I'll do the mouth. I now see that I have forgotten some of the We paint them by just using the skin color.. and moving over the shadow that was applied earlier. You need a very fine brush for it. As you can see, finer than this one actually. I'm now painting the hair, and since there's.. already a base made with burnt umber and.. red ocre, I don't have to do a lot. Just have to show or suggest.. some hairs on the forehead here. When I'm done just making the separate hairs.. I will use the umber as well to make some washings.. to make some variation in the haircolor.. also in the parts here and there. I think I'll add some burnt umber loose hairs as well. Otherwise, she just has one color on her forehead I'm now adding some extra hairs on the forehead.. with a different color to make it look more vivid. This is a burnt umber again. Now, with the color of the skin.. I'll add some lighter hairs.. just next to her face. I'll now be painting the lace. That has to be a bit off-white of course.. otherwise it's way too light, First creating the outlines and also testing the tone a bit. I see it's a bit too grey now, so maybe it should be a bit whiter.. because there's a highlight there on the lace. This way it stands out better. As you can see in the painting some parts.. are more and less translucent so that's why.. I set it up pretty roughly. I'll now try to make that difference more distinct. I'm now painting the edges of the lace collar. Trying to blend in a bit of the.. raw umber that's in the hair at the shadow. Maybe I'll have to apply some extra shadow later on. Okay. So I've painted the lace to a large part already. First I applied a thin layer of white.. which was very transparent. you still see the black gown very well through. And then with thicker paint, I just push the brush onto the panel so that.. you can have this nicely fine structure of the lace. There's an extra piece of lace on the sleeve. So now I'm first painting it pretty transparently again. Then I'll add more paint again. Rembrandt did it much more while using variation in this technique. I'll now start painting the pearls.. and in the middle of the pearl.. you have this brownish color so I'm using a raw umber. I left the lace open here a bit.. because I hadn't made the pearls yet. Later on I can pull the lace over it again. Now I'll use a mixture.. a bit of the skin tone mixture again.. the ocre and white, to make it a bit off-white again. Then it looks more translucent because the color is close to her skin. Pearls are of course, well, not completely opaque. -What's the other brush for? I'm using the other brush to lean on.. because I have to be very close now to the panel. I'm using a bit of a skin tone color.. and I'm mixing it with the raw umber.. that I added in the middle. I'm now using a more white mixture. Still the same mixture, but with more white.. to paint the reflection in the back of the pearl. And the front of the pearl, where the light falls on the pearl.. there's a tiny color variation in the pearl so they're not.. all brown, yellow, white-ish.. there's a bit of a blue-ish dot on them. I'll try to do that as well on some of them in the middle. Just to give them an extra color. Lastly, a real white highlight. Retouching it a bit with raw umber again.. because I lost some of that in the middle. They seem a bit too white now.. so I'm adding in a bit of ocre again in some parts. In the meantime I have finished the lace also on her sleeves. Now I will paint the brooch in the middle, on her chest. I'm first painting the shadows and a bit of the in raw umber again. I'll now start with the gold.. the rim of the trinket. I use it to refine the shape. But in the base, to apply the ocre isn't There's already ocre there because it's.. colored ground that I use just retouching it a bit. And then now with a light.. bright yellow. Try to make the highlight in the gold. And then the brightest yellow again to Alright, now the stones if you look up close very well. Then you see that their base stone is brown. And on top of it there is green. That gives them their green-ish color. I'm using the burned umber. Otherwise the contrast isn't big enough. If you choose the raw one, And now I use some green and add some yellow. And white for the highlight in the stones. Now painting.. Pearls again. With a skin tone-ish white.. Of ocre and white. Mixing it a bit with the umber. When you do this wet the pearls And then wet the last blobs of white like I just did. You get the sheen.. of them in the final stage. And a bit of white in the stone.. to make it stand out more. You can keep working on this of course.. This is, well, just basically to start doing it. Now mixing black and white.. to make the highlights on the black gown she's wearing. And it's important not to make it too white.. otherwise it will be too shiny. We have to see how this works.. A stroke, and another stroke. And just blending in it a bit.. by just.. Roughly retouching it. This way you do get a sense of a three dimensional.. type of fabric. Well, its not quite finished yet. But I think I've shown you the different color combinations.. To paint different materials in a Rembrandt-esk manner. And you could now finish the painting, like I will, yourself! -Thank you very much, Lisa! Great lesson.