I am in my fantasy of all fantasy Smithsonian Air and Space Museum and I'm wearing my spacesuit. Now, I'm not just doing this because it's super fun, even museum is the brand-new home of the that is the reason I got into space and astronauts and it's why I own and keep Ryan Nagata suit. Yes, Neil revealed yesterday after years of in the Smithsonian and I'm about to go without dressing up. Look at that. It's so beautiful. Oh my god. It's so moving. Now, I'm gonna get out of in the middle of the summer and I'm get out I'm gonna get to talk to Lisa this suit. Lisa! What an unbelievable achievement! Yes, it's been a long time. We've been working on this suit for like beautiful, the pose ... It must have been We weren't sure how to pose it. I because we wanted to give a little bit costumes in museums are very static. costumes. They're always on some straight board mannequin. And we really tossed that up for a long bit of life and make it feel like moment of Neil Armstrong wearing his person in there. What needed to be what was deteriorating and what was word conservation, not restoration. But it's just because we're not trying to make it look new. We're not suit has happened to the suit. It's you'll notice is the lunar dust on the knees. Well, I hope everybody notices that first. It is so sharp and angular that it just about regolith, right? Little tiny pieces so they have tiny edges. Exactly. they tear apart the fabric as it is really hard with the for a long time people didn't know how We'd pick them up underneath the more careful about handling them. We know we can disturb those layers. The other conservation challenge is the a natural synthetic blend, which does not play well together or age well. It was only meant to last six months. So knowing that it's really the deterioration sense where it's it does continue to off-gas these really the suit materials. So given deal with such a thing? So we did x-radiography things and looked at the what parts looked like they were frozen incorporated into our mannequin to hold the the interior components sort but not push too hard, not let them engineering challenge. That never even is built to accommodate both the still the interior layers to all to keep it correct? Yes. So the hard part about that spacesuit we had to build a mannequin back and it's kind of like doing surgery. you're putting the arm in. And so our aluminum structure. We started with Knowing that the suit had shrunk a entered them into a CAD program on the mannequin from that. We used a central we 3d printed so we can actually adjust we want it. And then lock them into place needed something that would all these little pieces we can show you. And then after that we still did our original build where we use inert the arms and the legs to fit those ... with an archival textile that we found. part was that we wanted to ventilate We wanted to move air through to get the middle, this mount that you see which Those two black lines? Hooks up to air coming up through that that hooks little holes throughout our entire that could breathe. into the suit and into the cavities to Has anything like that been done before? Never. Never in museums that we know of. So this is exchange about every three days. It's not air empties, we have a scrubber inside these gases and cleans air and puts it we also stopped displaying on spacesuits they set up that micro seal still and so we've invented another 3d part that we mannequin so it looks like they're their original fitting. But there's an air gap So you spent years with this at your desk. There must have been countless moments really, &quot;I can't believe at times. Especially when seen it. I mean, I did get used to bring it back out and I was really super reaction to this and and hearing their been stunning. It's been two hour It's very humbling working on this an important piece of history. Anything you try you had to try on other pieces of Apollo spacesuits that and things. You don't want What kind of things did you learn on the interesting things are these tiny gloves, on the gauntlet ... those repairs that ILC did to the glove Because lunar dust is now trapped under Teflon coating which mirrored with the these abrasions in the resew everything. It wasn't impacting the telling me about the flag on along the red and we had assumed rubbing of the shoulders in the command the material. But after seeing the Apollo, all the flags look like this from printing problem with the actual So sometimes you find things you don't need to conserve. Those are the things we would not go in and in-paint or wasn't damaged during the mission but reluctance is to do the least amount years from now people coming behind me changing what you see in that and all talked about trying to research things notes from the engineers often didn't keep a detailed set of notes during this I have maps of like all the stitching. I We did all sorts of different lighting can see all the different coatings and As you probably know the they had to use beta cloth threads were going to be at a melting point One of the ladies who worked on the suit they use the black lights and the managers to check their that they didn't took the black light to the suit and I From repairs? Right. So it was really the x-rays now fully. It took us stitched them together in another x-ray. What I love about the x-rays is they make it clear how much engineering you restraints and cables and fittings whole outer system. Lisa, it is an to you and I really thank you for