Come and challenge, you sick men of East Asia, don't any of you dare to challenge? You Qing people are just a bunch of cowards, come and challenge, foreign devils, let's fight you well. Don't be arrogant. If it weren't for you foreigners. The army is arresting the gangsters. You have been beaten to the ground a long time ago. Even if we fight to the death today, we will stand up and fight you to the death. Looking at your thin bodies, I can crush you to death like ants with one finger. This is your fist. You are giving. Am I tickling? Useless waste. Useless waste. Next. Your ten fingers have been broken by me. Can you still use the Eagle Claw Skill? Don't be proud. He has already lost. I came to fight you. What did you fight? Kung Fu can actually dissolve my fist. This is Tai Chi, foreign devil. You are so bold in our land of the Qing Dynasty. Today I let you try the profoundness of Chinese martial arts. You inspired my fighting spirit. Is there anyone who dares to challenge me? There is no master in China to challenge you cowards. No wonder the Qing Dynasty is about to fall. Another one is willing to die. You cowards are finally willing to stand up one by one. Today I fought well enough. Unfortunately, Chinese martial arts is so disappointing to you. It's impossible to win over my damn foreign devil. Today I will make you lose completely. You will never dare to set foot on Chinese soil again. It's wonderful. Whose mad dog is barking here? It really deserves a beating. Who are you? Stop talking nonsense, big guy. Come here and die. The sick man of East Asia is here. Oh no, there are two more foreigners participating in the battle. One of them has been killed and the other one is fighting fiercely. It seems that there is no chance of success. Chen Wenhu has not come back. Is he going to challenge the strongman? Master, you must defeat the foreign devils. Who are you, Huo Yuantian, Huo Yuanjia, the most powerful master in Tianjin City, the first punch of Jinmen, you finally showed up, I have wanted to challenge you for a long time, Huo Yuanjia, you finally stepped into this ring, there is no way out. The next master who will die in my hands is your great hero Huo Yuanjia, who is invincible in all battles. Master Huo, the number one in Jinmen, you are the backbone of the people of Jinmen. How can we tolerate the foreign devils in this area of Jinmen who bully others? Defeat the foreign devils. Defeat the foreign devils. Defeat the foreign devils. Defeat the foreign devils. Defeat the foreign devils. Defeat the foreign devils. Defeat the foreign devils. Defeat the foreign devils. Defeat the foreign devils. Come on, Master Huo. Come on, Master Huo. Fearless. Defeat the foreign devil, Master Huo, you must win against Huo Yuanjia, don't be complacent, Master Tai Drought, be careful in the battle on Skull Island, John, destroy the Japanese samurai Sato, snipe the profiteer Ma Chaoli, snipe the profiteer Ma Chaoli, kill James, kill James, kill James, fight well, fight well, Fearless Heroic foreign devils defeated foreign devils, get out of China, get out, get out, beat him to death, beat him to death, beat him to death, Yuan Jia took it upon himself to expel the foreigners and return them to my homeland, expel the foreigners and return them to my homeland, expel the foreigners and return them to my homeland. Foreigners use the prestige of our country to expel foreigners. Use the prestige of our country to return my homeland. Kill people. Oops, leave now, everyone. Regroup later. Foreign devils, I will kill you. Don't touch Master Fu. Huo Yuanjia, I told you not to cause trouble to me. You are biased. If you don't listen, you have killed so many foreigners. Let me see how you end up. I will arrest you now in the name of the emperor. If you want to run back to me, let you dare to talk nonsense again. Let you see how powerful I am. Your people will give you thunder. Monkey Thunder Monkey Thunder Monkey Big Scarface, how dare you kill our Shunyuan Escort Bureau Big Scarface, let me come Huo Yuanjia, you really don't understand the rules of the world, you Sanyi Escort Bureau likes to bully the few, Lei Big Escort Master, me On behalf of Big Scarface, I surrender to you. Now, Huo will teach you your clever tricks and give you this opportunity. I'm sure Yuan Jia is a powerful boy. He has the ability to play with you, Mr. Lei. I'll play something real with you. How can you be a hero if you dodge and dodge? I will definitely kill you. Well, Huo Yuanjia can't beat four hands with one fist. Besides, there are still three of us. You can barely fall behind now. We can kill you with a wheel battle. Master Jiang, this is just a competition in the ring. Our Sanyi Escorts have no grudges against your Longsheng Escorts, Huo Mou. Shopkeeper Xu was imprisoned unjustly, but he still helped Escort Jiang. Why was Escort Jiang so ruthless at this time? Master Huo Yuanjia was deceived by your hypocrisy. I am not stupid, Jiang Wankui. You are so ambitious that you want to annex our three escort agencies and take away everything from us. Today I want more than just If I beat you, I will kick out your Sanyi Escort Bureau so that you will never be able to gain a foothold in Tianjin. Shut up. Why should I shut up? I am telling the truth. Are you afraid that Jiang Wankui will know the truth? You and your father are both. You took advantage of Jiang Wankui. You took advantage of Jiang Wankui's love for you. Your father took advantage of Jiang Wankui's loyalty to him. You took advantage of Jiang Wankui and made him work for you for so many years. But in the end you all abandoned him and wasted his years of running a business in vain. If I were him, I would do it first. If you don't take action after killing you, do you want him to take away the escort agency that originally belonged to you? You see, he is still letting his brother take away your sweetheart. This is too much bullying. Nong Jinsun, give me my woman and leave quickly. Lei Hu Admit defeat. If you keep fighting, you will die. Huo Yuanjia. Only one of us can survive on this stage. If you don't kill me, I will kill you. Those who want to kill us must ask me first, big scar face, stop Lei. Hu, you have been knocked out of the ring by me. The competition is over. Lei Hu, hurry up. He will kill your brother. If you don't kill him today, he will kill you. Huo Yuanjia has not ended our grudges and has not settled. I will kill you Huo Yuanjia. Yuan Jia, don't think that if you show mercy, I will let you go. Either you die or I die today. Why must someone die before I can stop? I set up the arena just to hope that everyone can live in harmony. Stop pretending to be benevolent and righteous. If you really want to live in harmony, you won't kill me. There must be something fishy about the death of my younger brother, Thunder Monkey, who was beaten to death. I suspect that he was killed by others. He dare not admit it. Dare he do it? Do he dare not pretend to kill you? I also told others that you were not killed by me, but by someone else. I have said this. If you continue to fight, I will not show mercy. Doing this will only let the real murderer go free. Master Huo, Master Nong, this is the fighting arena for black boxing. Aaron, go back to the pharmacy and take good care of your father. Okay, please be careful. These rich people are betting on living people and taking pleasure in gambling with human lives. It's really abominable. Master Huo, Master Zhao, you also come to do black boxing. Master Huo won't come for gold like those common people. Of course, it's not Master Huo. He's from Jinmen. It just so happens that I, Zhao Family Mantis Quan, have always wanted to compete with your Huo Family Mizong Quan. Today we will compete. Huo has no intention of competing for the number one. People who practice martial arts don't care about the level of fists and kicks. They just see what cultivation they have achieved. Why should we compete? Why is Jinmen No. 1 today, even if you win today, those who lose tomorrow will naturally win as long as they practice hard. People who practice martial arts should support justice, hoe the strong and help the weak. There is no point in spending your whole life for a false name. If you want to fight, you can fight if you don't. Why are you talking so much nonsense? Just say it, you are afraid. Our Zhao Family Mantis Fist will be over. The winner is the Bai Family Vajra Palm, Master Bai. The next challenger is the Zhao Family Mantis Fist, Master Zhao. Forget it, these people are talking to them. Yuan Jia, you are in vain. It looks like they are all a bunch of useless idiots. What Mr. Jiu said is that it seems that the Bai family defeated them all without me having to do anything. He also claims to be a martial arts master. Tianjin is the land of crouching tigers, hidden dragons. Under the heavy reward, there must be a brave man. Jiu. Lord, look at it, there will definitely be outstanding people coming to challenge this matter. This is a very important matter. You must choose your master carefully to rest assured. Yuan Jia, this is a bloody battlefield of fratricide. Those few people are very mysterious. Master Zhao, if you don't admit defeat, just shut up. Even if I die, I will not let Mantis Fist be defeated by your Vajra Palm. Since you want to die, then I will help you beat Yuan Jia. What do you want? Master Zhao has been seriously injured and refuses to admit defeat. If this continues, he will be killed by Master Bai. Yuan Jia, who was beaten to death, you can't go up to save people. It's important. I'm here to challenge Master Huo. It's easy to get up in the ring, but it's difficult to get down. Once you get on the ring, it means accepting the challenge. Yuan Jia, Huo, doesn't want to challenge Master Zhao. He has already given up, so why bother? If you are aggressive, your palm will definitely kill him. He is inferior to others and refuses to admit defeat. Since he wants to die, I will help him. You have no grievances and no grudges. This is just a competition in the ring. Why do you need to talk nonsense like this? Stop talking. If you want to save him, win first. My Lord Jiu is Huo Yuanjia from the Sanyi Escort Bureau. Speaking of which, I would also like to thank Huo Yuanjia for helping us clear the obstacles before we arrived in Tianjin. Only after the Chamber of Commerce and the Escort Bureau Gang were wiped out one after another in Tianjin could we get the old man. The reuse of Huo Yuanjia is a good thing, but it is not very obedient. Whether the dog is obedient or not depends on how the owner trains him. First, let's see how well he fights. I want to see how good Huo Yuanjia is in beating Huo Yuanjia. You are too incompetent. Take my Bai family seriously, right? Huo has never been competitive with others. Who is the number one martial arts practitioner in Jinmen? Who doesn't want to pretend to be aloof? Huo Yuanjia, do you fight or not? What's the matter? A father like the number one in Jinmen who almost killed a child for his false reputation just now almost beat a master to death. People who practice martial arts can compete and learn from each other, but people like you who are so greedy for fame and fortune are not worthy of being practitioners of martial arts. Lots of big principles. If I had the guts to win in advance, I said that Huo Yuanjia didn't want to fight, so I forced him to fight. Butler Li placed a bet for him and increased his compensation to 500 taels. A customer offered 500 taels to bet on Huo Yuanjia, so Huo Yuanjia won 500 taels. Money, Master Bai, can you do it? If you can't, just come down. I'm still waiting to earn Huo Yuanjia's 500-tael bonus. If Yuanjia doesn't take action, he will get hurt. If you don't think about yourself, you don't think about Zhilan. Master Bai, please give me some advice. Yuan Jia defeated Master Bai and accepted the Impossible Vajra Palm. How could he lose to the Mizong Fist Vajra Palm? The one who didn't lose was you. Your anger is too strong and it's impossible to carry forward your own Vajra Palm. What do you mean by Vajra Palm's emphasis on turning the palm into a fist? You are tough yet soft, but you are not soft enough, so you lost to me. When you understand the principle of combining hardness and softness, you will understand the true power of Vajra Palm. Then Huo will have a good discussion with you. Master Huo Zi lost. I am convinced that you are the real No. 1 in Jinmen. Huo doesn't want to compete for No. 1 in Jinmen at all. He just doesn't want to see Master Bai continue to be stubborn. You mean well, but I'm afraid that if you get into this arena, they will force you to fight if you don't want to. Who else wants to challenge me in the next game? Come on, let me come on. Everyone, calm down. Heroes and good men, someone is deliberately inciting everyone to kill each other. What about being number one in Jinmen? What about the reward? They are all teasing you. They are paying you heavily to let you fight to the death in the ring. We are all martial artists and martial arts heroes. Do you just ignore the life and death of others for your own selfish interests? The so-called heroes and heroes don't have the slightest sense of shame. Who are you to dare to say that we are being played by others? You know what happens in our martial arts world. What's right? You dare to insult us. You don't want to live. Everyone, calm down and don't be impulsive. We are all martial arts practitioners. We should unite and get out of the way. Brother, who are you? You called me brother when we first met. Are you afraid that you won't be able to beat me in a while? Tell me to be merciful. What do you mean by saying this? Don't try to get too close to me. I'm here today to challenge the masters of Jinmen. If you want to challenge me, please stand up. Brother deliberately doesn't recognize each other. There must be some inside story. I can accept it. Your challenge, Master Yuanjia, this is a conspiracy. Huo Yuanjia accepts your challenge. You are the number one in Tianjin. Huo Yuanjia, the number one in Tianjin, I don't dare to ask. Your surname is Wang Zhengyi. Because he is ranked fifth, he usually uses a big sword and is known as Jianghu. Big Sword King Five, why are you here? I heard that you, Huo Yuanjia, are the masters in Tianjin. If you don't dare, I won't be convinced. If you are the number one in Tianjin, then who am I, Big Sword King Five? If you want to compete for the top spot in Jinmen, you don't have to come to me. You have to admit defeat or fight with me. Since you are so aggressive, I'm going to be respectful and just obey. A contract of life and death, fists and feet, ruthless swords and guns, no eyesight. Today you and I are competing to sign a contract of life and death. From now on, regardless of death or injury, we can't do anything to each other. I also signed the word &quot;making trouble with each other&quot;. Huo Yuanjia asked for this big sword. Why did Wang Wu get into a fight with the young master and signed a life and death contract? Did he fight the young master to death? Did Wang Wu lose his memory? Why didn't he recognize Yuan Jia? This is What's going on? Why do you need to fight to the death to make friends with martial arts? If you are afraid that you can't beat me, you can admit defeat now, kneel on the ground, kowtow to me three times, and then take off Sanyi's sign for me. Brother, what do you mean? You must sign it. And you have to lose in today's competition. Why is it because you can't be the number one in Tianjin? You Huo Yuanjia is not the number one in Tianjin. My big sword king five is Huo Yuanjia. I won't show mercy. Please be careful, young master. Yuan Jia takes action! This big sword king five is Huo Yuanjia. How could it be like this? What kind of martial arts competition is this? This is to kill the young master. No, the big sword Wang Wu seems to be a different person today. Is Wang Wu crazy? If the young master continues like this, his life will be in danger. This. Why are you laughing? I told you that this Big Sword King Wu has no inside story. Secondly, he is not crazy. He had planned it earlier. Do you remember? When our escort agency was in civil strife, why did he come to the rescue? It was to get closer to the Yuan Dynasty. Why is Tian approaching Huo Yuanjia? He knows Huo Jiaquan. He came to this ring today to challenge Yuanjia. He is just to fight for the first place in Jinmen. If this is your analysis, the big sword king Wu is so vicious and deliberate. Every step is a trap. Yuanjia is still in vain. Don't worry if you become a brother with him. The situation I analyzed today is all correct. Before this, I have challenged seven escort agencies. Some of them claimed that they were too sick to dare to challenge, and some were beaten badly by me within twenty moves. You are stronger than them all. No wonder you dare to call yourself the number one in Tianjin. I, Huo, have never dared to call myself the number one in Tianjin. Judging from your kung fu cultivation, you are also a latent martial arts practitioner. I advise you that we, the martial arts practitioners, The second is to strengthen the body. The second is to hoe the strong and support the weak. The third is to defend the home and the country. Fighting for the first place in Jinmen has no meaning. Stop talking nonsense. Either you die or I die today. Young master, be careful. Huo Yuanjia, I won't take advantage of you. You can also choose one. No need for weapons. I don't have weapons in my hands. I have my own blade in my heart. Master Yuanjia, Jinmen, is indeed Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. There are many talents. I thought Huo Yuanjia was the number one in Jinmen. Unexpectedly, a master who is more powerful than him suddenly appeared. Look. Look at the results of the competition and tell me, Mr. Jiu, do you want to choose him? If there is a more powerful master, of course we want to find the most powerful Suwen Huojia Mizongquan, famous in Tianjin, is well-deserved, but my sword is not a vegetarian. The hero who died under my sword Countless times, you escaped this knife this time, but you won't be so lucky next time. Huo Yuanjia, are you still unwilling to use weapons? Afu, give me the short stick, the short stick, the short stick, quick, quick, quick, young master, then this is mine. Weapons: It would be too disrespectful for you to use a short stick against my broadsword. Brother, please don't misunderstand me. I just don't want to see blood. Today I want to see whether your Huo family's Mizong Fist or my broadsword is faster. If I beat you and I, King Wu of the Big Sword, will be number one in Jinmen, my brother, Hao Hao, I am really good at using the big sword. Huo is a lucky person to be able to compete with you today. But today, we are all competing to learn martial arts. It's good so far. I haven't lost yet. Let's continue. Major, this guy with a big knife took away our treasure map. It took no effort. I didn't expect to meet him here, so I kept an eye on him and let him run away. Understand who the man he is fighting with is Huo Yuanming. He is Huo Yuanjia. Yuanjia, be careful. Yuanjia, be careful. He is using dirty tricks. Master, be careful. Major, you know him. He said this man is a martial arts master. Everyone in Jinmen didn't know him last time. My sister's mission failed because he was a troublemaker. Unfortunately, he couldn't be used by us. Last time, my sister failed to convince him to serve our Japanese Empire. This time, I must make him Huo Yuanjia join us, otherwise I will kill him. Understand, brother. Brother, brother, what is going on? Is there something hidden? Brother, brother, I will naturally explain to you in the future. You have to lose in this arena. Will you be in danger? Brother, I just want to lure the snake out of its hole. Okay, then you must be careful. Fifth Brother King Jia, you are indeed very skilled in martial arts. I am convinced that you are the real No. 1 in Jinmen. Listen, from now on, I will be the No. 1 in Jinmen. This Huo Yuanjia is just a piece of [ __ ]. Why are you pretending to be the No. 1 in Jinmen? We deceived the housekeeper and went to find out who Da Dao Wang Wu was and where he came from. Mr. Jiu tried to find a way to win him over. Our task must be handed over to the real No. 1 Mr. Jiu in Jinmen. Don't worry, I will definitely handle the matter for you. Anyone else who is not convinced can come on stage and challenge me. Big Scarface. If you are not convinced, Wang Wu, I want to challenge you. Big Scarface, stop Yuan Jia. It was clearly you who let him win just now. He won unfairly. You regarded him as a sworn elder brother. You treat him as a brother of life and death. He has been a trap since he approached you from the beginning. We have all been deceived by him. Enough is enough. I have tried my best. If I lose, I lose because I am not as good as others. I tell you whoever dares to fight again, I will drive him away. Come out of the Escort Bureau, Yuanjia, Mr. Yuanjia Miyamoto, I finally found you. Hand over the treasure map. I really underestimated your ability. I didn't expect you to chase me here. Who are these people? They are the imperial guards of the Qing Dynasty. I am the leader of the Imperial Guard. Ling Yunqing was ordered by the emperor to retrieve the treasure map. Our Qing government does not want to enmity with the Japanese. If you don't hand over the treasure map, no one will leave alive. Where is the Miyamoto treasure map? The treasure map does not belong to you. If you hand over the wealth of our Qing Dynasty, we will not pursue you anymore, but we will not let you go. Every piece of land here and every living person on this land will belong to our Japanese Empire, so go to hell, Ling. Your subordinates are all dead. Do you still want to fight? I will come back. Huo Yuanjia, I want to kill you. Why do you want to kill me? Huo Yuantian, it's all because you are your brother who stole my woman from me . I want to kill you, Huo Yuanjia, Mr. Gu. It seems that we can't defeat him. We have to leave here quickly. Stay in Qingshan. I'm not afraid of revenge. It's not a good place to stay for a long time. Let's go. Young Madam, foster father, shopkeeper Xu, foster father, foster father, foster father. How are you, foster father? How could this happen, who did it? Huo Yuanjia, be careful, foster father, foster father, foster father, foster father, don't worry, I will avenge you. Huo Yuanjia, I want to kill you. Huo Yuanjia, I want to duel with you, don't do it in a evasive way. Come here and let me deal with him. Jiang Wankui, you crazy man. I will beat you until you wake up today. Big Scarface, this man has lost his mind. I will fight Fearless with him. I will kill every one of you because you are all liars. Xu Zhengen promised me to Hui Qing married me, Huo Yuanjia, because you came to Tianjin, otherwise Nong Jinsun wouldn't have snatched Hui Qing away. Calm down, Miss Xu. Are you engaged to me? I am the successor of Long Sheng, Xu Zhengen's eldest disciple, and Hui Qing. Qing grew up together, and Hui Qing should marry me, which means that you and Ms. Xu have no engagement at all. Shopkeeper Xu has never promised to marry Ms. Xu to you. Even if Shopkeeper Xu has promised, if Ms. Xu likes someone else, you rape her. If I stay with you, she won't belong to you. Without Nong Jinsun, Hui Qing will definitely like me. You guys grew up as childhood sweethearts. If she likes you, no one can take her away. It's impossible for Hui Qing to belong to me forever. I am a good man. Sifang, you can do many things besides killing with your skills. Why did you destroy yourself because of something like this? I only want Hui Qing. I only want Hui Qing. Jiang Wankui. You have lost your mind now. The moves are full of flaws and you can't beat me. Xu Zhengen and Hu Lidu was killed by me. Do you think you can escape the fate of death? They two old guys are already old. They should have died a long time ago. I am more powerful than them. Drought should die. I am more powerful than them. Chen Wenhu. In fact, we can cooperate. Chen Wenhu. In fact, We can cooperate. As long as the two of us join forces, we can dominate Tianjin. Gu Qiang, your ambition is too great. If I cooperate with you, I might be plotted by you one day. Instead of doing this, I would rather kill you and I will be the boss myself. Do n't forget. There is another Huo Yuanjia in Tianjin. Can you beat him? You wait on Huangquan Road. Huo Yuanjia will meet you in the underworld soon. Listen to what this is. Your child is crying for you and it will kill you. The person handed over the child