America is home to a fair And this city we found is definitely With many moving from all around the others have called it a cult. I am one of thousands by one of the greatest con You are a charlatan! Hidden deep within the the more we read about this Founded by one of the biggest and creator of transcendental meditation, this city was built as a giant experiment on the back of this wave of But why and how did this ultimately And how can such a small also attract some of the I do transcendental meditation, Bob Roth taught me. Well, Staffan and I have flown with no plan whatsoever, not We came with no plan Then you can move here To explore and see what we experience We're hoping, despite not having to go as deep as Are we getting sucked into the vacuum? We'll set a meter down and see out of a hundred how far we We are in Iowa for the first time. We have a two-hour more unique cities, I think, We're either new members of this or potentially new It took us a day of flying to but we had not yet booked While Googling around, that seemed located right the meditation city within the city But despite there not being a It's actually owned by The organization. Happy to enter your paradise home. See you soon. Thank you so much. Thank you. I think I found the craziest when it comes to this place. I couldn't even find the homepage, But they don't even have a website, But it's legit, bro. I know this sounded a bit weird As we made our way we tried to get more information from before arriving to try to what we were about to It's a very strong culture. There's some integration and some When you enter into Fairfield, it's Just culture, it's just different. You can feel it when you enter? - Yeah. I mean, when you're in Fairfield, you run into people that are and so you see a lot of things, And they call it a religion, I I'm worried that it's going to or to be like allowed to What are we doing? Okay, we are entering Fairfield. It's like any other town right now. That's right, there's a Pizza Okay, someone putting A man putting up the I think that's the man to ask about this. Nice flag! We are from Sweden, and we were Oh, only for you guys. Nice to meet you, - Happy to meet you. Yeah, how long are you guys here for? We're here for two or - That's all? This is the best, I've lived And this is the place. And I'm back here again. I've seen people move away six Really? - Yeah. - You are here because of Maharishi? Yes, yes. People from all around Famous people, Oprah Jim Carrey was here, flew his jet in. The people that grew up in this They have fear, If you don't know And there is some crazy people. - Of course, everywhere. Even between me and Thomas, - Nice meeting you. - Nice meeting you, Sir. Thank you. What a legend. She is very connected - What's your name? - Alaris, I'm Thomas. - Staffan. We're just very curious Fairfield will do its magic on you, just because you came Amazing, wow. I got goosebumps Is it possible to get lost in it? Only if that's what you want. Yeah, Fairfield does Okay. Good luck. We heard people coming and not It's something that happens. Really? Wow. Maybe we'll never leave. Maybe we'll just stay here forever. Somebody said, don't get That scared the shit out of me. You are tagging along into a very Whether it is a cult or a The definition of a cult is with a shared devotion often characterized by practices or beliefs with reports of control, manipulation, and Transcendental meditation was founded and what began as a meditation soon captivated the world. At the center was Maharishi, a charismatic leader whose teachings fostering a deep devotion The mind during transcendental meditation takes that inward course in Over the decades, some former TM instructors became deeply influencing decisions and finances, and that to reach higher practitioners were expected raising suspicions of The suspicion of control, combined promises of supernatural benefits, and even achieving world led some skeptics to question Maharishi must have been - Right. Yet, many practitioners have always They see it simply as a practical tool TM remains debated, hailed by On our end, we have also heard overwhelmingly Which is why we're here. To see if we can get immersed Apparently, Staffan has Staffan, look in front of you. Are you sure there's a In three minutes, we know. How is there a place here? Oh, I love this. Oh, I love this, I live Do you live for moments where Oh, wait, is that our... Is I'm extremely confused by what This can't be the place Hello! - Hi! I'm well, how are you? I'm Cara. Oh, great to meet you. - Staffan. Thank you for hosting us as Well, I'm so glad that you It's a very special building, it is and my husband is the And your husband is the president, wow. And he's also the But I divided it into suites so of Maharishi's Tapachavedic Things are laid out in a particular So, this is where you will be staying. Wow, it's beautiful, like &quot;The world is our family&quot; The head of your bed What a lovely home. To be honest, it feels How did you even find this place? We're staying in the president I could introduce you to Wally He's a pilot also, and he when he was alive, so he's We've only been here half an hour, but it As we continued to explore the we came across some confusing structures - Pulling here. - Observatory. As you tour the observatory, please What on earth is this? What is this belong to? Are these like mathematical instruments I don't even know what this is. Ram Yantra, altitude instrument. What is this?! That is one massive building. The Golden Domes, twin buildings These two domes, one for serve as a space for practitioners to gather to practice advanced However, only those who have Okay, so we are about to meet a man and doing transcendental meditation. One of the main teachers. - Your name is? - Hello, Thomas. - And you're? Next year I'll be 71, so... - You're 71? - You feel more youthful. I've been teaching TM (Transcendental Wow. Meditating twice a day is and it's really all you need. And that's the concept of Twice a day for 20 minutes. But the body settles to a There's a very deep, profound rest And that's what because it's like if you can everything looks clear. You don't have to have an You don't need a philosophy of life. You just need to get yourself rested And all these other faculties open up. If you just start getting you're happier, you eat better, But now let's go deeper. Suddenly your business gets better. Suddenly you have better relations. Suddenly you're having more But initially, just having that When you get tired and And that's why the simplicity of it. You seem to have a I haven't had any coffee today either. The other big thing that was Cholesterol is going to kill you, But your body manufactures What kills you is Cortisol. Cortisol takes cholesterol and - Cortisol is released when we're stressed. So cholesterol is like bullets. Cortisol is the gun. If you don't have cortisol, you can have boxes of bullets We would, if there's a possibility, we would love to have the - If there's any chance... You're here for four days, though. Yeah, yeah we... And you can move here *nervous laughter* Okay, let me go get the Amazing. This is escalating very fast. Staffan just signed us up for this. So we are gonna be here for We are extending the trip. Well, I am very curious. Everything that he said so it took us two hours to stay here for four But before we go and do this About the sponsor, making this video and BetterHelp, who are offering Therapy can be used as a tool for who at some points in and completely overwhelmed and stressed Talking and getting advice from process some of the emotions and ultimately getting them unstuck. Therapy can give you with new problems in And BetterHelp is on a as easily available and whether it is via a phone BetterHelp is fully online, which gives you access to a than may be They have a journal inside the and even have group sessions on a variety if it would be helpful who may be experiencing You can start by and then filling out about any challenges and BetterHelp can match you with One of the best features is that if your therapist you can switch therapists with the until you find someone So click the link in the description below if you want to learn some new tools Or go to betterhelp.com/yestheory Okay, now back to this course. We were given a task for the course and we were already We had to bring six flowers, two for us to get initiated. - Flowers, done. Nice to meet you. Well, we just arrived today, and Well, yeah, of course. You have no practice at all. Do you guys practice We're starting now today, yeah. You're starting that today? So let me tell you, I did it for 22 years. We're starting in one hour. One hour! I actually think you'll be surprised at You'll be able to notice clear Brian, thank you so much, sir. When I woke up today, I and I feel really fortunate and Beautiful, man, Beautiful. Maybe he was just hungry, maybe Yeah, I think so He took the bananas The fruits and flowers were a form of which included some Mantras in and eventually giving us our that we shall never speak out loud, only to keep to ourselves We also did our Okay, now it's actually turned dark, and Thomas has been in - Hello, hello. That was amazing, The teacher gets It's your turn to go to space. Walking in as a boy, Well, that was amazing. I mean, I've done many some similarities and some things This was obviously just but very curious to see *Another hour later* - Out, walks a man. Thank you, thank you. We both actually really and we were curious about But first, we asked him if there to go deeper into understanding And he connected director of the Brain Center focused on studying the I'd be curious to hear the work that you do I look at the brain to So what happens during is the individual experiencer But you are there. Your universal nature is there. And you just experience the nature Because of this, anxiety is lower. You're less caught You may find that people They don't go to loud Because they don't need to get some inner Because you're only anxious I can't do anything, But if you're experiencing yourself as Because you know you have Because the mind is sharper, Consciousness is more enhanced. - Thank you so much. It's very interesting because, they've So there's a lot to it, you know. It doesn't feel so surface level. And, when you read online, some of But they keep going, They know it's not proven. They are dedicated enough that they're having meditating enough. We want to go out and We're going deeper, Bro, bro missed me. You didn't miss me, We sent the wire payment this morning, so there's no turning back now, Life is about money, okay? - Oh, hey. - Sorry, we're a couple minutes late. Most people, their successes not what they've not done. And here we're saying, do At some point we're going to say do I like the play of words that we are But we're running around, imagine Our second day was more diving about what's going on in the so that we understand the and what thoughts arising actually We are about to do our third meditation. The funny part is that Wally is one of He has no clue about he hasn't asked us once He thought it was a podcast yesterday. He has embraced us fully, and let's see how the Briefly explained, the core of You relax, close your eyes, and repeat your Mantra at until you reach this Where you forget who you are Until you eventually get distracted, come back to the Mantra and Thank you so much. - Thank you so much, Wally. I went very deep as well, yeah. Have we met the modern Yoda? - He's like... He's our Yoda, 100%. Fun fact that we learned today, Wally actually taught Frank Oz, the how to meditate, and thus influenced a so he may very well The reality is that beyond it seems that Fairfield interested in alternative forms of So we are gonna get our eyes We've been invited to a by a lovely lady at the supermarket. So it's inside a church. We will blend in, right? Yeah. - What's your name? Staffan? Ari I hope you have such a wonderful time. - That's really nice. Hello, hello. - Nice to meet you, I'm Staffan. We've been invited to a new thing. This guy in town, he built this 4,000 - Tomorrow? Wow! - Experience after experience. It's really nice to be here. '' Day 3 of learning TM '' By our third day of joining this course, we decided to fully commit to the And we were actually starting to A new day in rising. Feeling great, actually. I don't know if it feels different but like I woke up this and I feel like very energized. I feel like I needed less coffee, I usually I only had one, and this so looking forward to We have an adventure I have no clue what's gonna happen. What are the chance, one out of 10, of you One being the lowest? - Yeah, one. I'm enjoying it. You? - Oh, we'll see, we'll see. Oh, we'll talk about it later. We still want to see the and spend more time with some of But it also seemed like we the president of the John Hagelin, which would certainly complete Are we ready for school? I guess so. Today we're going to talk about how the Your experience is based I mean, life is based The third day's focus is examining with a nervous system Through this, we have a positive and nourishing instead of a generator of Interestingly though, the lectures were We were finding ourselves well over three hours He not only comes with so but he also radiates with enthusiasm Let's say thank you to Dr. Wally. This is so much fun, you don't have I was thinking about this at I was thinking how many and the enthusiasm that you It's new every time because the student brings How many students have you taught? About 5,000. - And you're still excited to teach? You still don't even know Right, I have no idea. To get immersed into a more we accepted an adventure who we'd met at the A walking legend. Good to see you, man, - Hi. So this is the squad tonight. We're trusting you I'm glad you're trusting me Are we ready for a road trip? - We are ready! We're going to one of these? Where are you taking us, Brian? Wait, this is actually the door? No, that's actually, - Where are we, Brian? - Where are we? Just a casual night out. Hello, hello. Thank you very much. Okay, till next time. We're having a crazy party with Brian. You guys have great energy and And if we keep walking, we'll get to... What's the next town, Albion? So this foot is going to And you guys keep your Our next stop on this mystery who had apparently turned his - Are we here? Hi! Oh, you got a bunch of people here! Oh, my Lord! Are you seeing Wow! I've been working on it for 20 years. - 20 years? This is incredible! Only in Fairfield. Only in Fairfield. What gave you the In 1965, when all the I started doing my own We need to bring you to Paris and Where are we, man? Yellow submarine. There is a dinosaur. Every theme park needs a dinosaur. How do you even think of any of this? This building actually has nothing in it. I just put 10 hits of acid that we drank earlier tonight. But it does say a lot about the town as far There's so many artists And here's someone that most people just wouldn't have You've built a world. You've built another planet. On our last morning in Fairfield, Wally had specially organized for us to despite us not having fully Okay, let's go and explore this dome. Thank you, sir. This isn't at all what I was expecting... I wasn't expecting there I've seen pictures on the internet of I think it was the advanced meditators '' IMMERSION METER '' And to take us to 100% Wally even got us a meeting with who interrupted his - Gentlemen. - I'm so glad to meet you. - You want to step outside? I came here from Stanford What do you feel drives The increasing importance among everyone but the world's problems are human problems. And so to develop the mind and to and forward-looking thinking that's what draws people Wow, that's a great way to Stay in touch and enjoy - And for the last part. On our last morning, it was time to - Good to see you guys. - A small gift of appreciation. What a beautiful experience together. When you leave here today, you'll have pretty much a complete with your own experiences because the I'll let you guys go, like Exactly, exactly. It's such a powerful experience for me. You know, emotionally, I was This is something that's And I get to watch you now. Now I can just... Now you know what the Yeah, I know, thank you guys. All right. Thank you so much. We completed Mission Fairfield. We did. To be honest, we're There are claims online and I'm sure many On our end, however, we truly from our experience here in four People were welcoming, uniquely creative and There are very possibly some aspects of the Ultimately, our main exposure and both Staffan and I were so excited We would totally lose track of time, and we went deep discussing It's now been 10 days since we left, and both Staffan and I still and have genuinely felt numerous We've been feeling more able to more trusting in our chaotic creative We don't know where this leaves us, other than feeling equipped and some friends we never expected to make If you're watching this and struggling, we strongly believe in any form of and encourage you to do your own We will continue exploring the expansion and are grateful to be able to do so We'll see you soon.