- Hey, it's me, Destin. Welcome back to Smarter Every Day. It's time for the pulley episode. These are like my favorite I bought this one, it looks or something like that. Pulleys are one of these things that everybody knows about. They know that somehow, a pulley will give you mechanical advantage, but people don't really understand it. We all pretend like we do, but the person that really shows up, and they arrange it in the perfect way and they just make things work, that's like the smart person So today, on Smarter Every Day, we're gonna make a video about pulleys, and we're gonna slowly And specifically, I wanna introduce you to my favorite type of pulley, They're really fancy, they can do tricks. Okay, let's start by picking My kids are gonna show you If you have to pick something up, you have to pick up all of and, whether you know it or not, all of the weight of you. How you doing, good? - You can put it back down. How hard was that? Not that bad? The magic of a pulley is because a rope is always in If you pull on this side of the rope, that force transfers all so you basically can redirect the force. That is the primary function (child grunts) how was it? - Hard. - The pulley changes the so you can use your own body weight to help you pick something up. Very good, was that hard? Not as hard. - Not as hard as what? - Okay, so it's easier to because you can kind - Yes sir. - So this is the part that If you can change the way you can make it even Do you want the normal - The snatch block. There you go. Go for it. So you split it apart, don't there you go. So this is the magic of a snatch block. We can put a pulley in as long as there's a is big enough for the rope. This is the part where you're like, &quot;Oh yeah, &quot;because of pulleys.&quot; But if you don't stop and think, you won't really understand So slowly pull, is it - It's a lot more easy. So, this is what's happening: the tension in the rope right here is being redirected by this pulley because that's what pulleys But down here with the snatch block, we're doing the same thing, But you have tension in the So all you do is you put and then you add up as many and that's how you get So in this case, how much do you know? - Two. - Two times the tension. I don't know about you, but I if you can work with it with my hands. So I 3D printed a bunch of and we're gonna rig these of how we were picking When I pull on this rope, all the way through the Wherever the rope is, If I pull here, think it pulls on the rope on the other side of the pulley right there. That pulls on the rope which then pulls on the of that pulley, which that hook at the very end. All of the ropes are in tension. Now, if you look down you'll notice that there are two arrows pulling up on that pulley. That's why we get twice the But what if we wanna pull harder? Can we just add more ropes and tension? Yes, we can using this. It's basically a double pulley. Some people call this a block and tackle. Instead of two ropes pulling Just a little bit of force that's like 10 pounds of force by just barely pulling at all. This is the same number of ropes, and pulleys and everything, so we can see what's going on. So, I've got a scale. I'm gonna attach a scale and remember, if we put input tension, that tension goes all the way through. So as I pull here, I have connected to the thing we're pulling. So if I put two pounds here, look at that, I get eight pounds on the output. That's awesome! I'm getting four times the force, but I'm only moving it 1/4th as far. How far do you think we an go with this? You think we can double it again? So now we have two blocks which if you count all those up, one, two, three, four, we have eight ropes in So as I pull here, look That is a little bit of That is some serious mechanical advantage. Look at this though, the are moving a lot, but aren't moving as much. Let's break this thing apart again, and see if we can This is so awesome! Oh man, that's a great shot! Okay, so here's what we got: let's count up the tension again, one, two, three, four, I put two pounds here on the input. Oh, that is a lot of force on the output. Do you remember on the block and tackle, the ropes we're moving at different rates? Well, think about this. On this side over here, It's not going to move. On this side, I'm pulling the rope. It has to move as much as I pull it, and the same is true for this one, because it's just redirecting that string. But after that, everything is affected by how much this moves. So, just playing around with it here, you can see that these than that one over there There's a lot going on here. Not this is the sort of thing that, yes, you can probably explain it with words, but if you have a of how this stuff works, and to your advantage, you can get yourself out of some really interesting situations. For example, the other on my buddy, Jeremy's truck, how to get his truck up without a winch. Snatch block! We rigged up a pulley his entire truck up onto the trailer using only ratchet straps. We figured it out, but because we were trading force for distance, That's when a nice guy He drove up, offered to help, our pulley system, and knew We disconnected one of the ratchets, put Jeff's truck in it's place, and pulled this truck up until One thing I love about Alabama just stop and help you, what's going on. For example, watch how all the mechanics once I tell him we have an extra snatch block. (engine idling) we're gonna do a double snatch block! Oh, this is great! Is I'm gonna put that one-- - Yeah, yeah. - If you'll point that direction. - Yeah, I'll do it. - [Destin] I'm gonna level with you, Jeff is the kind of guy I Watch how he just picks up a snatch block and starts working. He just knows what to do. Also, his hands are just amazing. Watch this man work. (engine idling) Snatch block engaged. How many snatch blocks you got? - [Jeff] About five. - [Destin] Dude, I'm a (Jeff laughs) - [Jeff] I got a triple. - [Destin] You got a triple? Like a-- - [Destin] A block and tackle? - Yeah, that'll work. - Oh, dude, that's a thing Any day you can use a So yeah, snatch blocks can get knowing how to use them thank you so much dude, and they can also be a ton of fun. Zip lines are basically You have the ability to and you can insert a cable into it without having to disconnect That's essentially the a pulley where you can insert a line without having to take apart your line from whatever it's hooked to. Snatch blocks are amazing, and where else can you get amazing views like this without having a snatch block? (fast forward zip lining) (pulley clanging) Muy bien. (metal clanging) Can you hold this, then? That's awesome! (Jeep engine roars) Okay, so you can do a without getting a Jeep Let's say you got the Jeep stuck. You might be tempted to pull the winch out, and pull the cable directly to that tree. What do you think, Jeremy, - Winch is the way, well, a (men laugh heartily) If we pull that winch out we would only be able to pull the Jeep with the force that that Snatch block! We're gonna snatch block What you actually wanna on the tree side, then take that hook, and you hook it back to the Jeep, and so you have twice the pulling force with your snatch block. Alright, you got the winch, right? (engine idling) - [Destin] Okay, here we go. Cut the engine off and put it in gear, and just see if it'll pull the Jeep. - [Jeremy] And like drag it, okay? - Yeah, see if it'll just pull it. - Ready? (cable motor running) Oh, that's scary. That's a lot of force, dude. - [Jeremy] Yeah, man. (cable motor running) - That's good. Dude, that's a lot of force, man. - [Jeremy] Yeah, man! - Thoughts? Snatch blocks are awesome, man. (men laugh) - There's a type of pulley system we haven't talked about yet, You remember the block and tackle, we had an eight-to-one Well, this has the some but it does it a different way. You remember we add up the and we have one plus one is equal to two? But if we have two plus and four plus four is equal to eight, we can come up with an just like that with less pulleys. This is fascinating, and to come up with this concept To learn more about Archimedes, I went to make local by a man named Plutarch, between Archimedes and It's a really interesting story, but it's gonna be even with this flannel board. So it goes like this: to King Hiero of Syracuse, and he's like, &quot;Yo, King Hiero, I'm really And Hiero's like, &quot;Why And Archimedes is like, &quot;Well, I will &quot;if you give me a war ship.&quot; And King Hiero's like, &quot;Yo, And the Archimedes is like, &quot;Yo, dog, &quot;I hear that you like pulleys. &quot;I got pulleys on pulleys on pulleys.&quot; And the Archimedes does something amazing. Under his own physical strength, out of the dock, which because that's what happens when you know how to use pulleys, you impress people. So people have been using for thousands of years, all the way back in the But they're gonna be That's why you need to know Don't take my word for it though, I'll let Veteran Astronaut explain it from his point of view. - The biggest difference and being in space is and when you're floating like on the Space Shuttle, it's You can't dig your feet in, you can't use the weight of So having a way to hook on one and apply a steadily increasing And that's why on board the Space Shuttle, we have snatch blocks. They're part of normal equipment. In fact, there's a special that contains a couple, and both inside the ship, an You're in a problem, you have a load, you have to pick it up, what do you do? Snatch block! (metal clanging) (Destin laughs) It's kind of funnier when Snatch block! Snatch block! That is exactly what you want. You wanna be the person that knows how to use the snatch block, understands mechanical advantage, and gets your team out of the situation. (speeding traffic) There's a road crew on repairing the guard rail (speeding traffic) Thanks, man. - Yeah, man. - [Crew Man] You, too. - (chuckles) It was kind of &quot;Hey, can I check out your snatch block?&quot; (laughs) And they we're like, (laughs) Pretty cool, though. (speeding traffic) I should get back in my truck.