Welcome to my channel! To help you have more choices when caring for flowers at home using natural methods. In this video, I continue to share new methods. If you are new, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss any tips on how to grow and care for flowers! This is Coffee Put 2 teaspoons into the jar Add 0.5 liters of boiling water Cover and incubate for 3 hours. You pour 500ml of warm water into the cup Next is honey You put 1 teaspoon of honey in a cup Stir well until honey completely dissolves in water Use a cotton ball to absorb the honey solution Then clean both the top and bottom sides of the leaves. Helps leaves clean of dirt, mold and insects residing on leaves. Cleaning the leaves regularly will keep your flowering plants lush and shiny The stomata will open and the plant will photosynthesize better It also helps quickly heal leaf damage. 3 hours later Take the coffee solution and stir well. Then filter out the residue Filter through a thin layer of cheesecloth to retain the smallest coffee residue. Mix the 2 solutions together Continue diluting with 2 liters of water to create a very good liquid fertilizer for flower plants. The first way You use a spray bottle containing the solution Spray mist on all leaves and roots of flower plants This method has the same effect as using foliar fertilizer Provides plants with nutrients that are easy to penetrate and absorb through the leaf surface With ingredients containing lots of calcium, iron, zinc, potassium, copper,... Along with lots of vitamins A, B, C, E,... With powerful antioxidant compounds This type of fertilizer will help flower plants increase their strong resistance Protects plants from developing comprehensively from roots, stems and leaves Promotes bud and flower blooming. Regularly water your flower plants once a week in this way Second way You water the plants with this liquid fertilizer. Coffee contains many minerals and organic substances that help provide nutrients for plants to grow. It contains very high levels of nitrogen, potassium and magnesium, Important nutritional elements for the healthy growth of flower plants. It stimulates early blooming with more vibrant flowers. If you water the plant regularly once a week it will be very good With simple methods, you can care for your flowering plants So that you have more options when caring for flower plants at home using natural methods! Today I will share with everyone an organic fertilizer that is very good for plants. Please watch until the end of the video! If you are new, please subscribe to the channel so you don't miss any tips on how to grow and care for flowers! To make this fertilizer I used Tomatoes 1 chopped tomato Tomatoes are a very nutritious fruit not only for the body but also for the plant. Put tomatoes in blender Next is cinnamon powder Add 1 teaspoon of cinnamon powder Add 0.5 liters of water And puree Then you filter the solution Continue to dilute further with 2.5 liters of water to have 3 liters of extremely good fertilizer for flower plants. Method 1 You use cotton soaked in this fertilizer solution Gently wipe each leaf of the plant. Helps kill fungi, insects, and harmful bacteria very effectively. 1 Part of the nutrients penetrates through the surface Will become a source of energy for plants to grow If you apply this method 1-2 times a month, the leaves will always be green and pest-free. Method 2 You water each anthurium root with this liquid fertilizer. This type of fertilizer stimulates the spread of new roots very well After only 2-3 uses, you will see a difference in your flower plants. With abundant nutrients such as Nitrogen, potassium, calcium, zinc,... and some micronutrients With vitamins A, B1, B9, C,... It becomes an excellent source of nutrients for plants. It promotes the growth and flowering of anthurium very well. You should water the plant every 2 weeks using this method. Method 3 You pour the fertilizer solution into a spray bottle And mist water the leaves and roots of the plant. Has the effect of fertilizing plants through leaves. This type of fertilizer has the effect of reducing the alkalinity of the soil. This is beneficial for anthuriums because they prefer a soil environment with a pH of 5-6 to grow best. It also stimulates anthurium to flower early and keep flowers fresh on branches longer. Every 2 weeks you water the anthurium using this method. Have you used this type of fertilizer for your flower plants? Please share with us below in the comments section! Don't forget to like and share the video with your loved ones! Thanks a lot! Hello and see you again in the next videos!