Donald Trump and his allies say he has a after winning the popular vote, but his will Americans react if Trump carries out Good evening and welcome to how Washington and America are but we do know that the Supreme that grants presidents broad most powerful and emboldened US radical change perhaps, is coming. to expect with 3 of Washington's the chief correspondent at The is the Washington bureau chief at Carl is the chief Washington of Tired of Winning Donald Trump Thank you all for joining me, Elizabeth, uh, 9 years as uh was from here 99 stepping down as bureau chief to Are you going to run again I think I'm done, I got Grover think you're done with the, with the Being a New York Times reporter For a long time, yes, I'm going on, more and more Washington Week, me start with you. Uh, uh, you President-elect Donald Trump is What does that mean? Well, it means to radically transform the executive the executive branch in a way he term. I mean, he wants he wants what he wants to do. He sees the than being part of his team, and One is I would say a kind of a branch works and the other is to to cut the spending significantly. Vivek Ramos Ramaswami to lead that of the government. Uh, you know, in spending out of a budget of about $6.7 trillion people who've looked at this say after entitlements, which Donald in a variety of ways it looks as loyalists in all of these agencies than for you could only eliminate many times before you have to I, I believe. There are like 4000 Education. they, they spend a that money would probably end up there, the student loan program, how, how successful do you think transforming the government the way I think there's a potential for they going to get $2 trillion out mean, if you look at the budget, and Medicare and you take away say they don't want to touch, um, have to cut everything else. I mean like entirely this what's called discretionary is going to be much more disruptive. Trump is doing here in, in, in his and his cabinet is he, he wants to people who he truly knows and who does he not want to do? He doesn't or a Bill Barr or a Jim Mattis or a These were people who, um, you ended up, uh, you know, being but more importantly stood in the mean, Jeff Sessions allowed the by recusing himself from that. Bill of Justice to help him in the Those were his two confirmed attorneys who was there on the campaign trail him trying to challenge the Elizabeth, talk about this in In the one difference Trump too has won, he put 3 people on the Supreme Court. It's a conservative court now they did him a huge favor that no the Supreme Court in the modern basically can't be prosecuted for does that mean in terms of impug Well, he has been announcing that and that he has been given these to do what he wants and he's not Court, at least in sort of mentioned in the beginning, uh, he win by a landslide. It was a 3rd, history since 1888, I believe, but he know that and he's barging ahead. are some guardrails, and one of Department of Government Efficiency and Elon Musk are running. It's not voluntary. There's, they, they're to sign up for 80 hour work weeks. going to get perhaps other until Dozier is unionized. That's, of what they want to do has to be have to have meetings about this in, in public. They can't engage in So it's unclear to me how much to do, you know, and he has control uh, which is for 2 years, which what happens, but, but the, but the one seat, uh, as you have the 3 seats, but you have 3. Republicans who will be stepping down. One he's no longer going to be in the now. But you have, uh, and, and just a, a 3 seat majority and it's effectively, you know, a, a, a majority because you have Lisa uh, who are certainly not all in and you also have a former leader, McConnell, who is still now a loyalty, personal loyalty to Donald the the new senator from Utah, Trump supporters attacking Um, you know, you, you, you, but a group in the Senate that's not that Trump wants to do, and he's know, for, for anything he has to tiny majority in the House and a be less than a and there are some picks like Tulsi Gabbard, she's know, it's, it's, you, you, uh, you and you're in trouble. Well, liberated Mitch McConnell, right? Donald Trump certainly doesn't been a difficult marriage to the does, does Mitch McConnell Or is that not in his character? I I think he will he will kind of he's just going to be a, you know, Senate in any way, shape or form, but, to things, um, you know, there's and just like Elizabeth Beiller what she does. People often confuse Washington, yes. You know, he's, has some apparent differences with try to exercise his voice on that things, but um it wouldn't be know, one or two of the nominees one thing that they've said is we cut trillions, theoretically out they've talked about is, uh, well, a semi oldie, but it's a Goodie. It's Donald Trump making a promise this brief clip. I am your warrior. who have been wronged and betrayed. retribution. So John, what does, what does, Well, first of all, we'll see how it, but, but there are people counsel named that would basically counsel, uh, Jack Smith, um, and, and and there are lots of, I mean, They say this was a politically motivated investigation. They say it was No evidence at all that that is that it wasn't, uh, but you could see that Trump and his allies have down their political opponent. that could be like a guy like Matt we, we'll see how far, I mean, are pushing for him to do something. will do it, whether or not his new Pam Bondi would go along with that who was nominated to be the Deputy that remains to be seen, but there Trump's ear that really want him people that were against him. Well, about about one job that we haven't FBI Director, obviously Chris Wray. time, but he's obviously Trump is post-Watergate especially, we've, of Washington treated the FBI job as an apolitical of who's president. Does Chris target of retribution and what would that mean for the culture of the Justice Trump removes uh Chris Ray. 11 will not be FBI director very long give everything that Trump has do. I I think what we know about make the Justice Department as opposed to being what we've from the president and to be able president dictating um and. out cases in which in some know what's going on. Trump doesn't He wants a Justice Department and things that he wants done, right? like the Trump law firm in terms represented Donald Trump in the deputy attorney general nominee criminal trial in New York and in who is the number nominee for the Todd Blanche and Donald Trump in team. So you have the top leadership assuming they're confirmed, will for him as his defense counsel, and for solicitor General. He argued before the Supreme Court. So he's now be the lawyers at the it sounds like what John's. of the post-Watergate era. absolutely, and I think in addition who investigated him, you know, people at the Pentagon who angered the former chairman of the Chiefs against him. He was very angry what he wanted and he tried to. They thwarted him. There's there's also potentially and although that has turned up but, but I, uh, yes, he's, um, that's what his supporters want. I popular thing to do with the rest for one John just jump on this question. General CQ Brown, Air Force general Chiefs, the current Chairman of supporters think of him as one he is black. He has spoken about has has enforced some policies that the Trump era bipartisan and of the Joint Chiefs when he comes executive orders that they've actually Trump will decide to go order to review all of the 3 and know, for whether or not to see needs to be removed and who needs to it's certainly possible, um, you at this. is when he was in office thwarted. In some cases by people authority in some cases by people the, the famous op ed in The New by Anonymous, uh, no longer anonymous, about within the government, there Trump from doing harm to the country. House, inside his cabinet, inside want that to happen again, right, nominations have expressed strong criticism for the departments that they're going to lead, expressed great and the quote unquote deep state term a derogatory term for civil service, senior government you've been watching Washington. people come into departments that who are working there actually thwart, uh, what these nominees, want to do. Up to a point, um, sure, of government. Works slowly, right? It's very hard to simply um, there are ways that people in slow walk things there are ways in which lawsuits which Congress can raise questions raise many of those questions, but out of hand, um, but I, you know, so different this time than The I mean they're very well organized he has populated this cabinet in if I recall talked about. What year I could look it up. um, but, but the that they have a much clearer some of the ways they want to do on all of this? No, but you know So this, this week he announced massive tariffs against our number and Mexico against a a a a trade in his first term and he was going know, on China, uh, and the next would have tanked because this going to cause inflation, it was Stock market went up and the, the negotiating. tactic. We've seen this all these things last time around so his followers might believe that but he's not actually going to but, but again, the, the, the reasons make a great deal of sense. So, so of this team mean in foreign policy. trying to foreign policy and to get my, my hands around the Republican muscular interventionist is gonna be in the same national who is an apologist for Bashar how does it, how does it work? I sort of, yes, even what our foreign vis a vis Ukraine as one example. foreign policy team put aside Tulsi Trump. Trump, but he, but his Republican Michael Walz as the, uh, John Radcliffe as the CIA director, of State, and we'll see what happens Hegseth is is confirmed at defense, it looks. That's a wild card. I look, um, It's interesting that of national intelligence, right, to run and now the nominee to run the it, he wanted CIA. I saw it as a ballast of the intelligence community a powerful jobsi Tulsi Gabbard is a coordination role. How much to have. Who knows? But the real this, and Trump. I mean, I think to Tucker Carlson and Tulsi or, or Mike Wallace or the kind this or what used to be the mean, there's so many subjects to this, this cabinet, but, um, interest right now because he did is make RFK Jr. in charge of HHS, right? Um, what do you think that's going to Dan, in which he's really putting in charge of those agencies, NIH, FDA, CDC, etc. I, I, I don't think there's any is more clear than the health area. he has done is pointed to an challenge to traditional uh healthcare policy that has been and years across many administrations, um, exactly what the upshot of that than that they want to set off a around what happened during COVID, shouldn't have been done and what in the future, and that's going are a reaction to the pandemic, vaccine skepticism of RFK Junior, who was selected to be the head what um Doctor Fauci has to say fact that this, he's not a scientist usually lead NIH and so there's, but also he uh during the pandemic vaccines for children or young and have herd immunity. We're going um, the, the health questions and that along with defense and really have to do that another week because but I want to thank Dan, Elizabeth table. I want to thank you at home here at Washington Week. We hope you weekend. I'm Jeffrey Goldberg.