[Music] Now if you own a Mercedes there owner should know and potentially change! So these could be things like parking sensor on....speed limit warnings and What your mouth Nick I'll have you a variety of functions including Navigation.... Let's make a start on number one! [Music] Now the first one today is drive away these are quite a new thing that's In some scenarios I found it to be overly you a heart attack so let me explain and Now I'm all for these kind of safety systems and so these two systems are found in the assistance under maneuvering assist called Driveway assist So first up driveway assist! Now say for example that I approach this bush as on just like this and say you then parked up and But this time when you get back in into reverse but you put into drive by accident... Watch the warning messages at heavily limited tap here to deactivate the limit. So basically the car will throttle the accelerating into the bush so that's quite cool But yeah let's put that actually back Now I mentioned the other one now Crossing Traffic behind and I actually So say for example as mentioned during and there's a car driving behind you start It is useful to have these things but I Right on to number two! [Music] Now next up refers to the actual distance Now with most car manufacturers few different ones they're all the same closer you get but for some reason Mercedes do But by default the front ones quite literally when you're like this close. Whereas you'll actually want bit further back and this is how you change it. So if you're a new owner of a Mercedes and you've bought one, the chances are they are like this so Under the section time of warning you'll what standard does is this so I'm going Oh and before I do this let me just is turned off because I don't want it So yeah time of warning standard...have No beeping... Now from where I'm looking right Um Let me let me look... Almost yeah fact that's closer than I said... Look how close that is so yeah... Here's how to change it! So yeah that's how close it literally beeps on early let me just go back and demonstrate this. But this time time of warning early! This will make the sensors behave well Same thing again but now it's going started beeping here and I'll stop here so You can still obviously go further forward And then the flatline is basically bush might have had a leaf touch the number plate. But I'm sure the camera outside will show that! But yeah that is one thing I'd Now for this next one is MBUX &amp; CarPlay. So MBUX is the Mercedes-Benz Multimedia However this generation multimedia system CarPlay now I love Apple CarPlay I use it every However some people don't want that some To make use of the augmented reality the Mercedes-Benz interface you can have two Now you can toggle between Apple and then CarPlay up here like that if you receive a text message and CarPlay will just steal the focus you don't have the saav so it's really annoying. So you can actually turn off CarPlay quite easily. And that is in home and then onto manager and then in here you'll notice This little blue symbol here means CarPlay symbol it will turn the carplay off MBUX multimedia system without CarPlay and But that way if someone texts you and you're any messages coming through and stealing [Music] Now some Mercedes do have a really And basically sometimes traffic sometimes positioned in a way So what Mercedes have in some of their camera system so when you approach some traffic When you come to a stop at them say for The view will come up here so you can Now admittedly....yeah actually I... This is a really good example I can't see them at obscured by the mirror and then this one here So yeah pretty cool I can just look So yeah that's really cool however if you do if you go all the way to the settings Go in here find assistance And here you'll see traffic light view this is where you can toggle on and There's also the cog as well if you on automatically which you saw in this video. But there's also the on request a popup rather than just stealing the A popup will appear at the top asking Right on to the next one which is a and every new car now has this [Music] So yes every new car has this kind of be a little bit annoying especially if speed limit sign or there's incorrect information. Or there's like temporary road works going to beep at you and say you're think I'll make a video about this on this But for those of you that want to turn it off this top right of the multimedia system is like a All you do is just press this and you Annoyingly you do have to turn this off per isn't a Mercedes-Benz thing this is a regulatory If you bought a new car recently and you don't you haven't got it...you might be thinking no no no no I'm talking like for example here it that said it was now 30 wasn't particularly No no system is uh absolutely perfect I get around the corner then it realises It won't get every speed sign 100% Little bonus tip for you as well the mute mutes the audio but if you hold it that off the Speed limiter without having to reach corner so you can hold that and it'll turn it Now this next one is active is like the lane assist systems I have covered this before I've dedicated video on it but it still so I thought I'd feature it again in and you may want to adjust some of these But to show off we'll have to So Active Lane keeping system Mercedes Benz cars and then up to higher speeds which we can't But it's basically looking for white lines kind of right hand ones are a little up if they are any more faded than that If you go to drift over it can either vibrate the steering wheel or even offer a course So all these things are quite clever but this road that I'll show you here believe it a two-way Road and certainly on a few cars So you might actually want to turn it off but can see there's a very solid white line on the of ver over much like that car in front just However in Mercedes it is quite button usually somewhere in the middle It's two clicks away so not as quick as the away but let me show you what happens when it's Drifting over to the left.... Little nudge there and back this doesn't mean are some scenarios where you will Say there's roadworks or construction you lot narrower, country Roads you may want to turn ish and um yeah you can turn it off by tapping car [Music] Now modern cars are very very clever voice assistants and in this particular Now normally if you say it in a Normally if you set it in a sentence talking about a Mercedes-Benz for for example or a Mercedes I'm going to say Mercedes So sometimes it's not perfect and you might So if you do find yourself triggering to turn it off more often when I'm doing a You can turn it off by going all the to system and then you'll see there it says Hey... I'm going to call it m otherwise it's just going to go off all the time the Hey M you can turn it off like that now completely you can still activate it using the can give it a command it just means the hey Now little bonus one there's also called direct commands so this Hey M word and if you go to the 'i' this Next track is quite a good one because there But um yeah there's loads of other to show the map or show the route and just In fact yeah look I've just spotted off so you can actually give it having to do the ones we just mentioned Speed warning off! Car: I am switching off the warning tone Hmmmm...during this trip... [Music] Now the next one after this is Zero Mercedes-Benz cars that have the kind So like my own daily car I've got the So there's a couple of views that you can do now by default when you pick the car up And it's a thing called zero layer you things along the bottom and will it's almost like like AI or almost like a Now you might not like this so you can actually toggle between this view called Hold home and then go to classic and then menus into navigation into radio rather [Music] Now after this there is a light mode or dark mode. Now I have shown this on Mercedes-Benz before however annoyingly it was actually So it's not in settings anymore it's if you go in navigation and then here the cogs then go to view and So go down the page and it is Maps and night so obviously uh this is day night looks like this it's a And if you have it on automatic it'll want to always have day and don't you can't toggle that in there it's just the far right but now it's hidden [Music] And then finally this thing this annoying thing. This is enabled by default on is really really annoying because the vast It'll either be you're going it'll be friends and family using the car. If I guess you're like a limited company guess Mercedes dealers might find this settings if you've bought the car and to put your pin in every single time I you have to put this in and then you put So you can turn the pin off have to just sign in so no peeking for a second. Now to turn the pin off it's super easy just tap And then find access protection Obviously just make sure you're logged then you can toggle off and toggle off like that. So yeah pretty easy! I personally find that really Now yes guys that concludes this week's sure to give me a like and of course hit And that comment section get in there if you know in that comments section any questions and if But guys thank you so much for watching check I think you might like the most but guys again