Baoyu Xiaoqiang immediately organized all the people to attack the tower. I must take it down. Prepare for battle. Sister Orange, brothers, can't stand it. Go find Brother Ye. Be careful not to leave. Thank you. How are you? It's okay. I still have a pulse. What should I do ? What should I do ? Is it serious ? Fortunately, the heart was not injured, but the blood loss is too much and I need to be rescued immediately . It's too late. It's too late. What should I do with the orange blood? You cover me and go to Ye Shuangying. Ha , what ? wow wait let's go. Beat them to death. What about the orange? If you don't come back yet, let me tell you , woman. What's going on down there ? Yu Rongping is injured . Brothers, can't bear it? Can he survive the injury? Lili said he didn't hurt his heart, but he lost too much blood and he needs to be rescued as soon as possible. Listen , I understand. We went to Brother, Brother, Brother, everyone went to Sita with Xiao Jin Emperor. Orange is waiting for you there. After Jiutou and I broke up , I also stayed behind. Stop talking nonsense and go quickly. Yes, Yan Shuangying. Just now I saw a man in the car. It must be him . Isn't he in the west tower? Why did he come outside? President, let's evacuate. This guy is not good at dealing with light radiation. Everyone has run away. Why should we sacrifice our lives for him? If I don't leave, there are still dozens of brothers inside. I don't believe that we can't kill him. He is the president of Yan Shuangying . The sound of such a loud explosion will definitely spread far away . If the Communist Party is blocked, it will be a big deal. Solve the battle as soon as possible. The king said that someone will move the car away . Xiaoqiang, go, hurry up. Brother Shaoying, come on. Come on, put him on your back. Come on, be careful. Oh, hum . They couldn't hold it anymore and ran to the top of the tower. Brothers, please get on top. We are things. It's strange. Why is there no one? People are evil. Could it be that they are flying up in the sky ? They are running away. They are running. Come on, what's going on? Come on, come on, come on. Brother Yan, his name is Song Qi and he is my friend . It is very dangerous here. Yu Ru Bingping is seriously injured, so we have to I'm leaving you right away . If you don't leave, Song Qi and I have to wait a little longer . Brother, you're crazy. What are you waiting for? Don't argue with me anymore at this time. Can you handle Lili Yu Ruping's injury? It should be fine. Orange Jiutou, you guys. Escort Lily and Yu Ruping back to the clinic. Will those people from Duma come back to the clinic to cause trouble? Don't worry, you will be safe from today . Brothers can't go back to Binhai these days. Little Jin brother , what do you think about the suburbs around Binhai? The county is relatively familiar with it. I took everyone to hide outside for a while. Brother Yu Ruping was injured because of me. I want to stay and take care of her. The Xiaoying Clinic is not a big place , so it is more convenient for Xiao Jing to stay. Brother, I am at the Zhengzao Helper in Jiangwan District. There is a good friend named Wu Asan. We can take the brothers to hide in his house. Okay, let's do it like this. After this is over, I will go find you and get in the car. You have to be careful. Hmm, be careful. Go quickly. Xiaoqiang is dead . Ye Chuiying is here. Where is Ye Chuiying and the others ? How could they disappear when they are clearly in the tower? I don't believe he can fly. Could he fly to the sky and search for me? President, if there is a quarrel here tonight, the security forces here will definitely be alerted. If we don't evacuate, I'm afraid it will be too late. I don't care, I don't care. I must kill Ye Shuangying. I must kill him. Brothers, search carefully. President my love is not good . The communist army is coming . Get down and swear. Shuangying is opening in the East Tower. Shoot, brothers, focus your fire on him and suppress him. Get out . Brothers, get up and rush for me. Get out. Brothers, get up and rush out of this door. If you stay here, you can survive. No one can survive the Communist Party. If you want to survive, give me Rush out, fight, so stop shooting, stop shooting, people inside, listen, surrender immediately. You know our policy. You are clear about our policy. Don't kill. Brothers, the boss has run away . Why should we fight to surrender? Surrender, surrender, surrender. All trapped people, listen. Come out in line with your hands raised, walk quickly , walk well , don't move , hurry up, hand over the person with one hand, delivery with the other hand, okay, I shouted 123, you hand over the box, I hand over the person, okay, 1 2 3, double eagles, ready, ready to blow up , so suspense, I almost hit him. You saw it, you know, this is Yan Shuangying. He has been prepared for a long time. No wonder even you are so afraid of him. This person is really difficult to deal with . He is a land of human beings. You can't stay for a long time. Let's go quickly. The money tree and Su Peng are both ready. Don't worry, everything will go according to the computer. Are you afraid of walking ? You won't be afraid if I follow you. The show is about to start. When the bomb goes off, run immediately and hide behind the low wall next to the bathhouse opposite. Brothers, lie down and run. Brothers, fight me. He's not here. Go out and see, he 's not here. Where is he? Where is he ? What are you doing? Go out and see. Go out and see the double eagle. Come on , shoot . Don't let that kid escape. Brothers, hit him hard. Beat him to death. Orange, hurry up. Get down, get down, brothers, kill them with a grenade like Ping, drag her behind the low wall, how is she doing? The injury was on the shoulder and there was a lot of blood. Orange , orange , orange, orange. Thank you, are you okay? I'm fine . Now do you believe me , can I die for you? I'm sorry, I shouldn't doubt you. Orange, orange, orange. He is not alive. He is still breathing and needs to be rescued immediately. What should we do if we leave here? Go through this door and enter the lounge. Then go around to the door and get down. There are at least 3 guns pointing at us in this lounge. Why can't I see the names of these people? They are snipers. Hide yourself. It's them. The biggest skill is that although I can't tell the specific location yet , I can clearly feel that they are in this room. What should I do now ? Can I believe you? What does this mean ? Can I believe you? Of course you can, you can take this gun with you. Hold the orange and hide in the cupboard. No matter what happens, don't come out . I just tested it tomorrow . There are at least 3-4 sniper points in the lounge with bird's nest splash stones on them . They are stuck in all directions in the room. If we show our heads, we will be dead. So what should we do now? We must find the bird's nest. What is a bird? Nest snipers call the commanding heights that can control the terrain being sniped called the bird's nest. The bird's nest can see any situation in the terrain being sniped. Therefore, the bird's nest is the most dangerous for the dart board. Now we It's a dart board . Yes, can you find the bird's nest? The person who arranged the sniper points in this room is a master who combines virtual and real points. Just now, I only popped up two famous points, knocked one out, and left one dark point. This one was not exposed, let alone It's the Bird's Nest, which means we are trapped here now and can't get out. No matter what, you have to give it a try. I'll rush out to attract the other person's attention. You take the orange and leave here quickly. Hide under the rest bed by the east wall. That won't work now. All the guns are pointed at here. You can't go out. It's too dangerous. Don't worry. Take care of the oranges. Are you ready ? Get out of here. You stinky bitch, why are you crying? If you stop bothering me, I'll kill you. Why did you only fire two shots and there was no movement ? I'm afraid. If he dares to come, we will kill these two women. Yeah , ah, ah , ah, you are here. Are you okay? I am okay. Home, we have to leave quickly. Orange has lost too much blood and will die if he is not treated. Yes, I didn't expect it. Orange, wake up. What's going on? Stand up. What did you say? I told you to stand up. I told you he was seriously injured. I'll say it again. Stand up. Why are you so nervous? It's too powerful . I'm afraid you might die if you're not careful. What on earth are you doing? Who is he? I can tell you the truth now. I am an agent of the Guangfu Society. What are you from the Guangfu Society ? It is you who have been deceiving me . He risked his life to save you. Unexpected, oh, unexpected. Shut up. If you talk again, I will shoot you. Don't be impulsive . He is seriously injured and is no threat to you. I hate it when someone points a gun at you , but there are always people who do it. You know I don't want this. You forced me to do it . Until now, I can't even tell you the truth. I don't even know how I can force you. You will understand soon. Come on , come on, come on. You must be in a good mood to have such a capable general under your command . I have always been unsure whether he can conquer you. Now it seems that my worries are unnecessary , but I I heard that the Communist Party is now cracking down on the black market of silver dollars and counterfeit banknotes , so although they don't believe me , they will be very interested in these things in the photos. In fact, the reason why I came here today is to meet you and hear how you want to solve us. However , the answer makes me very dissatisfied . Okay , I have to leave. Can we talk again ? You have to show your sincerity . Then what should we use to show our sincerity? Now that the price has increased, in addition to the small metropolitan dance hall that belongs to me, you also have to use a few silver dollars from the black market on South Wall Road to share a cent with me. If you can Maybe I'll be counted as a share of Jia Chao's deal. The price is too high. If I were in your situation, I wouldn't bargain anymore. Fortunately, you were exposed early , otherwise I might really fall in love with you. Chief, let's chase you, you're a bunch of trash. Open the door for me. Okay, brother . No, something happened outside. Come with me, brothers. Don't blame me. Escape quickly . Do you want to? Come to the store with me, brothers and sisters, please be careful not to put anything in to kill me. We are finally out. Brother, it seems that we have determined it early this morning. We are going to plant the bomb in advance. Brother, all the brothers outside are dead. Let him settle the accounts. What should we do now, brother? Don't stay in this land of right and wrong for long. The Communist Party's security forces are coming. We're leaving immediately. Brothers, get in the car. Get in the car. Come on, brother , the head nurse is here . Come on , brothers, protect me . Come on, let's go. Brother, brother, go on. If you stay here, there's only a dead end. Listen to me. You leave as soon as possible. Gentleman, take revenge. It won't be too late in ten years. Don't be afraid of running out of firewood to keep the green hills. That's so right . That's so well said . What do you want? I really want you to be so devoted to him. If so, I will make it happen. Don't , don't shoot. You can't kill him. Brothers, shoot me . Hahaha. I said that if I see you again in three days, stay here. Don't blame me for being rude . Did I say that? Answer, I said it, but you don't believe it. You don't believe what I say . You think I'm scaring you, don't you? Don't, don't, do n't kill me. Don't kill me. What should I say so that you will believe it? Ah, please don't kill me. If you don't cry without seeing the coffin, I must let you see the coffin. Don't shoot. Please don't shoot. I'll give you everything. Money, dance hall woman, you take it all, chrysanthemum, chrysanthemum, save me, please. Please save me because of our past friendship. Can you please let him go for my sake ? Is it necessary? He used to be kind to me. Remember my words. Even if you save his life, he won't be grateful. You only have I hate you even more. No matter what he thinks , I have to live up to my conscience. Think about it and remember it. Just this time , let me see you smash your head. Is it okay ? Gentleman , let him go and let him crawl out. Be good to me, heroes . I promised you to move into the Little Metropolis Dance Hall in three days. Now he is ours. Good uncle, he is also yours. Good , good, good , oh, ah, ah, ah, how are you? I'm fine. You two, wait for me in the dance hall. I want it. Following you, we have another three-part agreement. Let's go quickly . My heart is hurting . Hahahaha. Hey, I've seen your name in the newspaper a long time ago. I injured the prison guard, took away the silver coins, and drove a jeep to escape from the Nanshi Prison. Yan Shuang, the eldest brother of the Qinggang Gang. There are very few people in this world who know my name, so there are always people who come to provoke me. Hahaha, yes, you are really powerful. I never thought that someone with your skills would be Ma Zhicheng's friend . He is not my friend. There is some interest relationship between you. It seems that you have chosen the wrong partner. Why are you going against us? There will always be some unscrupulous people who think they are powerful and think that this world is theirs. Ma Zhicheng was like this last night. So in this case, a fool came Sometimes I will let them understand a truth. This world does not belong to one person but to everyone. Think about it, will they understand? Yes, they have understood this truth now. Unfortunately, it is too late . No, it is not too late. As long as they have not seen the ending, they will not. It's too late and I finally understand why you became a business partner with someone like Ma Zhicheng. I'd like to hear it because you have something in common, which is blind optimism and stupid self-confidence . Hey, you are so funny. Stand up. Now we see the ending