- You know, Steve was a teacher. He taught me the value of focus, the importance of simplicity, the fact that making things simple is so much harder than For those of us that were he was the teacher of a lifetime. (jaunty music) Hi. - [Interviewer] Hi. How are you doing? - Great. It's my first job interview in a while. (bright music) - [Interviewer] What is the first thing that you remember being good at? - I think math, surprisingly. You know, I was a pretty good I loved figuring out complex and I wanted to be an engineer, and so math and engineering - [Interviewer] Tell me about - Oh. My first job was delivering papers, and I was about 12 years old. Everybody was sort of And I'd get up at 3:00 in the morning, pick up the stack of and usually come back and Throwing papers helped and I was the first person in my family that went to college. I knew that being able to do that was a privilege that Everyone saw college in those as opening many doors and being able to stand on that education would do that. - [Interviewer] Your first job after you graduated from Auburn was at IBM? - [Interviewer] Tell me - I started at the and I drove with everything Rented an apartment, my own apartment for the very first time, and I had no furniture at all. I was sleeping on the floor for a while before I could afford It was the first time I to do anything, other than maybe go to church, but it was a marvelous place where there were a lot from all around the world. - [Interviewer] When Steve Jobs you said you trusted your gut. How did you know you - There was a feeling that that he was a very different kind of CEO. He was focused on products, and had a belief that small I loved that vision, and I also loved that in an environment where everyone was going to he wanted to refocus Apple on consumers. And it was brilliant, because at the time, nobody was doing that. Everybody thought you selling to consumers. And, you know, I've never to follow the herd. I thought I had a chance of a lifetime to work with the creative genius that started the entire industry, and I didn't want to pass that up. - [Interviewer] Did you feel like you were bringing something to Apple - People have forgotten this, but Apple was on the verge of bankruptcy, and it was a really awful time. And people advised me not to come to Apple because they thought that But I saw something different. I saw sort of the sparkle in Steve's eye, and it just meant that we for this American treasure, and... Ah, I'm so glad to have - [Interviewer] What lessons did you learn? - He taught me the value of innovation, the fact that small teams I looked at the size of I looked at the size of the iPhone team. These were very small teams Hiring the best people to that have skills that you don't, and being confident with that. And also not to be married not to be so proud you when you're presented with He could change like this. I initially was sort and then I became so enamored with it. Very few people have that skill because they get married and I thought it was a brilliant skill. - [Interviewer] Did he change - Oh, he changed my mind and he changed his mind - [Interviewer] Did you change - Yes, of course. He loved to debate, and he loved someone to debate him, and you could always change his mind if you had the best idea. We changed each other's minds. That's the reason it worked so well. - [Interviewer] Where does your passion for understanding logistics come from? - Manufacturing has always interested me because I'm very curious I like to go to factories and see how things are put together, how they're created. My degree is in industrial engineering, my undergraduate degree. And industrial engineering of people and machines, and how the two working together can create things that they And I've always viewed it, to be a bit of a piece of art because it's a symphony of of thousands of different components and parts coming together - [Interviewer] What sacrifices do you feel like you've had to make to get to where you are now? - Sleep. And fortunately, I love coffee. - [Interviewer] How much - Many cups, I'm... Please do not benchmark that. (Tim laughing) - [Interviewer] So tell me How do you start your day? - You know, I get up very early, and I quickly go to the Mac and begin to go through the for the last several hours. A lot of what I'm reading that are telling me how and what it's doing for them. And so I get notes both that are positive and some that are not so positive because people feel free to reach out and voice their opinion. And I think this is great because it keeps my hand on - [Interviewer] How do you deal - I have relatively thick skin, and so I try to internalize &quot;Well, is that accurate or not?&quot; And not just quickly put and say, &quot;Why? What we've done is right.&quot; - [Interviewer] What do you about your job? - How much fun it is. At times, I hear some other CEOs talk about how terrible their jobs are. Mine is fantastic. I love it. - [Interviewer] Do you think that the Tim who was throwing papers, did he have any idea that he - Zero. You know, I did a 25-year plan when I was in graduate school at Duke, and the first year or two After that, it wasn't worth You know, life has a way of happening and throwing you off from and I think the most important and make sure that you recognize that they're opening, and you choose the one to walk through. (jaunty music) (mellow music)