- Advanced Data Protection. Advanced Data Protection. Advanced Data Protection. Advanced Data Protection of protection for customers' - [Joanna] There he is, Apple's Okay, fine. Senior Vice president And he's announcing - An Advanced Data Protection. - Or what most techie people know as end-to-end encryption, a security feature to Apple will soon offer to most of iCloud, including and messages, photos, notes, and more. It's a big step, which privacy groups have called on the What took so long? - Some of the steps we took over a decade ago in designing iCloud and the way we encrypt it, were necessary precursors And using end-to-end encryption like passwords and browser helped prove out that technology. - [Joanna] What technology I asked Federighi to and the bigger implications Can we take a picture Allow me to explain end-to-end Can I get like a bunny fingers? - Sure. I can't see where my fingers - Okay, now this photo lives With Apple's standard data protection, which is what we all have now, the photo is encrypted by the device with a key that can unencrypt All that is encrypted while And Apple holds a key that If hackers got access to Apple's servers and that key, they could see the photo. But if I had Apple's Advanced that selfie would be end-to-end encrypted, meaning Apple doesn't have the key at all and can't see or unlock that photo. - Well now with Advanced Data Protection, we're giving users the only on their devices, which means that even if an attacker were to successfully breach the Cloud and access all that data, they'd - So you'll never see that photo, Craig? - We do not wanna see your photo. - [Joanna] Which gets to Apple's had with end-to-end If you can't get into your device, you wouldn't be able to access your data because you're the only Apple doesn't have it. - But there are incidences and, you know, we do see it happen where customers not only lose their device, they also forget their device passcode. - Oh, yes. It's like you've - (chuckling) Well, I think And so in that case, if your you, say, as her recovery contact, you would actually be able, with information you but that you could use to assist her, you'd be able to help her recover her data that was protected with - [Joanna] Apple requires you set up a backup recovery method end-to-end encrypted data. One option, a Recovery Contact or family member to assist There's also a Recovery Key option, so you can generate a key that you can print out and While Apple already had on services like Health the company's now bringing but you'll have to turn it on yourself. Why not make this something - A user activating this feature is taking on an additional responsibility. They're taking on responsibility for setting up a Recovery Contact or securing a Recovery Key. All users may not be ready - With this sort of encryption enabled, companies, even under court order, cannot hand over user data because they technically End-to-end encryption has long but awful for law who are trying to get their hands on data to help investigate crimes. Is this something that as you roll this out? - We deeply appreciate the and support the work of law enforcement. We view that we're really have which is to keep people safe. Ultimately, keeping customers' data safe has big implications on There's sensitive information that were an ill-intentioned attacker, whether that be a foreign to get access to information or others who have particular secrets, or access to systems, could And so we see this as important to accomplishing the the mission we share, which is to keep users safe. - End-to-end encrypted iCloud before the end of the year and Does that include China? - Oh yeah, we believe so. We wanna roll out across the world. - Do you know how the Chinese - They have not told me. - In 2020, Reuters reported to let iPhone users fully after the FBI complained that the move would harm investigations. Was this at all part of Apple's delay? - No, you know, I've heard that rumor, but I don't know where it came from. - In addition to all of this, Apple's also introduced a new Message Contact Key Verification, which further verifies for those who require extreme security. You can also now use a made by other companies, such as Yubico, to authenticate your Apple account. What's the prompt for all How much of it is aimed at - As customers have put more and more of their personal into their devices, these the subject of attacks by advanced actors. The only way to ultimately is to stay one step - [Joanna] The next step, and whether we decide to turn