- [Host] This episode is They take professional kitchen tools and make them affordable and easy to use. In particular, I love for all of its features. The Anova Precision Oven combines controlled steam injection and probe-based temperature monitoring, So you can get the precise temperature control of sous vide, plus the browning of a convection oven in one easy to use appliance. It also makes for some incredible bread, as you'll see in today's let's get down to basics. (upbeat theme music) All right, so Challah is a pretty easy, enriched bread dough. We're going to start by 500 grams of bread flour, 7 grams or 2 1/4 and 5 grams of kosher salt. Tiny whisk until homogenous. Then in a separate bowl, the wet stuff. Two large eggs, plus one large egg yolk, given that this is a And it's also a pretty sweet bread, coming from 80 grams of honey. And it is also rather a fatty bread. So we got to add some fat. 60 grams of neutral flavored We're likewise tiny whisking the wet ingredients until the homogenous and then dumping them on top of the dry. And now using a paddle or dough hook, we're going to bring everybody together. And at first you got to notice that this is a really dry and crumbly mix. And that's when you're going to realize that you forgot to add the water. 125 grams of room temperature Now Challah requires So it is ideal to knead but it can be needed by hand. And just to prove it, I'm going to do half this batch by hand. Because I remember what life was like before I had a stand mixer. It's not as fun. It's not as easy, but it is doable. Kind of like going through So we're kneading for about or depending upon your forearm strength, genetics, and sheer force of will, about 10 to 15 minutes by hand. Either way we want it to When you grab a little hunk of dough, you want to be able to stretch it out as thin as the laws of physics allow, so that light can freely travel through it like a little doughy window. You also find that it's and can be stretched So while the stand mixer in an oiled, covered at room temperature, or until depending on how warm your kitchen is. The hand-kneaded ball No matter how you knead it, these guys are proofing for about 45 minutes at room temperature, or until they've puffed up Now onto the more challenging bit, something I've never I'm using a scale and maths to accurately divide my Each of which I'm going to keep under cover of plastic from drying out while Once everybody's divided, we're going to grab a piece of dough and pat it out into a rectangle. Just a few inches wide and tall that we're then going to Very similar to the way or most bread loaves. Once sealed shut, we're into a sort of torpedo Trying to keep it thick in the center and tapered at the tips. You can make your logs if you want a more However you roll it out, you want to keep relative Rinse and repeat with the Keep everybody under plastic wrap. And now it's time to start braiding. We going to start by into a sort of doughy sunrise pattern, sort of fanned out in front of you with all the ends on one side touching and three on each side from the center. Now using the heel of your hand, we're going to press and begin the braiding process, which I'm sure somebody else can explain more eloquently, We're going to start by on the outside of the fan and crossing them over each other so that they're facing I'm going to call these the base strands. Then with Kendall's guidance, we're going to lay the first strand down the center of the Then on the opposite side, the second strand from the bottom is crossing over the braid to become the new base strand. Now we're back to our two base strands and four other strands Now the other base strand, the opposite of the one is crossing over into the center. The second strand from the bottom crosses over to become And we basically repeat this If any of that made I consider this a major accomplishment. We're pinching off all the tiny strands and tucking the pinched end underneath the bottom of the loaf. There's a pinched loaf And there you have it, a braided loaf, which we're going to place on a parchment-lined baking sheet and administer the first of two thorough brushings with a beaten egg. Challah has a deep, golden So make sure you get every Then we're covering loosely and letting proof at room This is where the Anova because you see, it where it perfectly recreates a balmy afternoon in Florida in October, about 82 degrees, 60% humidity, the perfect conditions in You can obviously still but it may take more time depending on how cold your kitchen is. Once doubled in size, we're administering our second thorough Once every crevice has been egged, it's time to plop this guy into a preheated 375 preferably with convection Rotating halfway through baking until it's browned and burnished and registers about 200 at it's thickest point. Then this guy's headed onto a rack to cool completely, about four hours. Or to cool slightly if you into some fresh, warm, fluffy Challah. Now, arguably one of Challah's greatest uses is in a French toast, for which we're going Last batch of dough I used So now I'm going to make one big loaf out of one batch of the dough. Which because of its greater mass, is probably going to take a and calls for a slightly, 350 degrees Fahrenheit Which should yield a loaf appropriate for French toast sized slices. Once this guy's cooled completely, because I forgot to film we're going to take a look at that crumb. It should be very soft, but have a firm structure with a couple of irregular bubbles, but no big air pockets or gaps. Now, while this obviously especially with some soft, salted butter, to accelerate this guy into French toast, we need to slice him up. Big, thick, hearty slices on a rack set in a rimmed baking sheet, and either leave out overnight to stale or dry out in a low temperature oven, 200 degrees Fahrenheit We want to get rid of as to make more room for sweet, My favorite formula is each heavy cream and whole milk, four large egg yolks for three tablespoons of dark brown sugar, one teaspoon of vanilla extract or two teaspoons of vanilla paste. About a quarter teaspoon always opt for freshly grated. The zest of one small lemon, than all the apple pie or Half teaspoon cinnamon, quarter quarter teaspoon ground ginger, and an eighth of a teaspoon ground cloves. Good ahead and tiny whisk Add a big pinch of kosher salt and plop in or pour over your which depending on how dry they So you got French toast Now this talk of apple why don't we make some apple We're starting by peeling two large Granny Smith apples. Bring them on over to the stove top, where we're going to saute them in two tablespoons of butter, along with a quarter cup of brown sugar and a little pinch of cinnamon. Sauteing for 5, 10 minutes soft and have made their own sauce. Don't forget to season with And if you have any of the leftover from making apple cider donuts, now's a great time to use it. Totally optional, but taste like they went to apple school to learn just how great Next step, instead of the we're going to make to sort of emulate the ice Into a big old heatproof bowl a quarter cup of sugar, one or one tablespoon of vanilla paste and optionally all those apple pie spices we put in the French toast custard. Go ahead and whisk that together And then over on the stove we're combining a third cup each heavy cream and a whole milk, heating over medium low flame until it's just starting to simmer. Taking it off the heat into the egg and sugar mixture, while whisking constantly and make sure that they don't scramble. Once everybody's combined, we're going to add the clean up the horrible, Head back on over the stove top and place this over low until it reaches about Or it has reached the state of nappe, where it richly and glossy and leaves the clean trail and has the texture and because that's what it effectively is. It's pre-ice cream. Cover tightly and refrigerate because now it's time Which we're going to do with a whole bunch of butter until it's nice and lightly Then when it's served, we're gonna make a sort of French toast sandwich with our apples in the middle, top it up with another slice, Then don't forget strain through a fine mesh sieve before serving to catch any errant bits of Drizzle over top and serve. Now while this recipe is not the most traditional French toast in the world, there's no denying that Challah gives brioche a run for its money as best French toast base. It's rich, it's got a great and it's very easy to make. especially with the help Thanks again to Anova Culinary for sponsoring today's episode. I used the oven's steam to help create the It works just like a that uses steam to and encourage a perfect rise, along with dry heat to The oven has a ton of other innovations, the wet and dry bulb thermometers measure, not only the air but also the surface ensuring you don't over cook anything and get perfect results every time. And cooking in sous vide mode gives you the edge-to-edge done-ness you get with traditional sous The Anova Precision Oven also has an app with recipes, including this one, that can program the For more information, and head to the link in the video description. (upbeat music)