- Today, I want to share for how to make a (gentle guitar music) Hi, sweet friends, I'm Mary, where I teach traditional cooking skills for making nutrient dense foods like bone broth, ferment, So if you enjoy learning consider subscribing to my on the little notification bell below. That'll let you know every Well, today I'm continuing and I want to share with you how to make First, I want to explain and what a medicinal herbal tincture is. But if you open the description I'll have timestamps the steps for making a So if you already know and a medicinal herbal When I use the terminology master recipe, what I'm referring to is something that you would call a template. And basically what this template is, is a recipe to follow that has basic steps and basic ingredients. However, there's one area of the recipe that allows you some flexibility, but as long as you have the basic steps you know how to make And in this case, it's a recipe for how to make a So the basic recipe for making involves using some type of liquid. Which, you have choices on that liquid, which we'll discuss in a minute, but the area where you have some variety is what herbs you decide to Now, speaking of the herbs, what is a medicinal herbal tincture? A medicinal herbal tincture is basically a concentrated extract of herbs, and it's a liquid And the nice thing about is that they're easy to and they have a very long shelf life. And the reason that you and have it on hand is to help you treat that the specific herbs would help. Now, for example, today, just for demonstration purposes we're going to make a tincture But you can make all kinds of tinctures. Just follow the master recipe, for the particular condition You can make tinctures you can make tinctures There's a whole host of And I highly recommend if to go to your library and look at what types of and start educating yourself about the various healing that certain herbs have. And a wonderful author, who's that you may want to look for is a woman named Rosemary Gladstar. She's been an herbalist and you can't go wrong And if you're new to herbs, Medicinal Herbs, A Beginner's Guide. This book is outstanding. She talks about how to know your herbs, how to recognize them, how to So this is a very popular book. And many of you have told me, you've seen this at your library, and I highly recommend this. And the nice thing about is you can determine which ones that you eventually may like to add to your own home library. Now, how do you take a It's very easy to take because it's very concentrated. What you're going to be taking is about a dropper full or two. And don't worry if you don't You're basically going to an eighth of a teaspoon, And I'll have all of this information in the printable recipe, so that you'll know exactly And when it comes to actually taking it, you can put it right into your mouth and take Or you can dilute it in water. You can also put it in tea or juice anything like that that you want. And if you're interested in knowing about the medicinal as well as what their medicinal I have a number of videos on this and I'll be sure to link Or link to them in the iCards and in the description below. And if I ever run out of iCards, you can always be assured in the description under the video. And also in the description below, I'll have a link to the recipe, which will take you over to my website. Mary's Nest, same name where you can read it It'll have the master recipe, as well as the headache tincture And while you're over at my website, if you want you can also which is chock full of things the prepper pantry, herbs, that I think you'll find very useful. And you'll also be able to download my free 36 page pantry list, especially if you're making the transition from a processed foods kitchen to a traditional foods kitchen, and you're wondering what in your pantry. Now, I just want to mention, as I've shared with you in other videos, whenever I talk about medicinal herbs, that if you're pregnant, if you're thinking of using or if you're taking medication, either over the counter or prescription, or if you have allergies, you really want to check with your doctor or your pediatrician or any other type of that you work with to that you're planning on Now, I wanted to mention if you're interested in buying herb seeds or even dried herbs if Mountain Rose Herbs is And the folks there have been so kind to give me a 15% off discount So be sure to check the description below because it does expire in June and you don't want to miss out, and keep in mind this I've been a very devoted because I've been so Already, now let's get ready for our medicinal herbal tinctures. Now, the first thing is some type of jar. I've just got an eight just a jelly jar. I like to make my Now, granted, yes, they But I like to have a variety of tinctures for different ailments. And I find that starting works well for me, but you can double this You can make whatever amount of tincture is appropriate Next, you're going to Now, today I'm going to use alcohol, but if you don't want to You have options. You can also use glycerin or you can even use apple cider vinegar preferably raw apple cider vinegar. And yes, you can use your own And if that's something that you'd like to learn how to make, I'll be sure to link to and in the description below where I have a three-part the whole 30 day process raw apple cider vinegar. Now, what I've got here and I know different countries label their alcohol differently but an 80 proof vodka is 40% alcohol. And the reason that I'm using vodka and this is just a mid-priced vodka. I don't buy the least expensive because we are going to be ingesting it but I also don't buy the most expensive. And I'm really not an expert on it, I don't drink. I just use alcohol for making And I've simply decided that I felt a mid-priced And the reason I choose vodka is because it's generally Alcohol is very good at extracting all of the medicinal properties from herbs and they recommend vodka specifically because it's clear in So it doesn't affect of the herbs that you're using. And in addition to using vodka I've also seen recipes where herbalists recommend using an alcohol And I believe that's a which would be 50% alcohol. Now, when it comes to the you can use leaves, you can use the roots, you can use the bark or the stem, and you can also use the berries. You can also use dried herbs but you can also use fresh herbs. The only difference is how much you're going to put in your jar. And leaves and flowers are than roots, stalks, and or So first we'll talk about what we do with the If you're using fresh leaves and flowers, you want to give them Chopping up the leaves and flowers helps begin to release some of the essential or volatile oils making the whole process easier. And if you are using you're going to fill your jar three quarters of the way full. in our case, with this example, since we're going to be using which are all chopped up, either halfway, or you can if you find that you're going which are less compact say, than leaves you can fill your jar But when you use leaves, which are very chopped say you're just doing leaves, than halfway up your jar is sufficient. And the reason why with dried herbs that you're only going to go halfway up or maximum two-thirds if you find you're basically is because when you pour they're going to really expand. And when they expand though, you still want there to when you shake it, there Now, when it comes to using you want to really chop Or if you have an ability to grind them, maybe have a little spice or one of those kinds The more that you can chop Because these things tend and by chopping them you can really help the process of releasing those Now, when it comes to filling your jar with the ground up roots you're only going to go about a third or a maximum halfway up your jar. Now, today, for our example for helping to relieve headaches, I'm going to be using some feverfew, some chamomile, and some peppermint. And what I'm going to do is fill my jar, you know somewhere between and I'm going to more or less, just do an even amount of each. And I'm just going to go between each jar just taking about a tablespoon at a time until I reach the amount that Well, this is a good amount So now we'll proceed with the next step. But what I want to mention is that when you're putting when you're putting the you may be following a recipe As I mentioned earlier there are asleep tinctures There's all sorts of tinctures But if you find that for you want to use more or you can always do that. There's plenty of flexibility. And for example, with you may say, wow, equal along with the chamomile might be strong tasting for me. You can go less on the peppermint. I like peppermint very a bit stronger tasting than the feverfew, and definitely stronger But it's something that I and very soothing when I have a headache. So that's why I'm doing equal parts. But if you ever read a recipe that you want to make and you think, wow that's a strong herb, I want to use a little less. You can always do that. This is the benefit of reading and also trying them over time. You begin to find what and what helps with your And then you're going start making your own to treat whatever conditions Now, the next thing that you want to do is take whatever liquid you're using. The procedure is the same, or the glycerin, or the And you're just going to that all of the herbs are Now you're going to see that yes, they're going to float to the top, but don't worry about that. They will eventually settle down. So once you fill the jar with your liquid just put a lid on this and I'm just going to give just to make sure that and you will find over the next day or two all of the herbs will have and they will have also have absorbed some of the liquid that you're using. So that can be a good time to check to see if you need to top it off, top off your jar with because you do want to make sure that its pretty much filled at least to the, it can cause you want to have room But you do want to make of liquid in here that of the essential oils or Now, what you're going to want to do is put this in a warm place and basically allow it to four weeks is generally sufficient when you're using flowers and leaves, and six weeks is better if or the roots or the berries, Speaking of a warm place, does it need to be a dark warm Herbalists sometimes have Rosemary Gladstar says that it's fine to keep it in a warm, sunny place. Now, if you're wondering, well would the sun potentially damage the essential or volatile oils and potentially make everything rancid? And I think that's a great question. I've often wondered about that too but herbalists say that acts as a preservative to but really it's your choice. If you feel more comfortable putting it in a warm dark place, by Now after the first or second day, when the herbs have settled and you've possibly topped if it needed it, do you need I don't necessarily think you have to shake it every single day, but I do think it is good just to make sure that all of the herbs are saturated under the liquid. So generally what I'll do is and I'll remember, and I'll just give it a little shake like that and then put it back up right. Now I'm going to go I'll put that away and let But what do you do after Well, I've got one right here and we're going to get ready I've got a measuring cup here, but use whatever kind of vessel you have. And then you're just going I don't line the mesh because I feel it would But what I recommend to drain this out or to strain it out, don't press on the herbs because you want your tincture and not have any little bits in it. So let's go ahead now You may just have to help it because you will find that the herbs will become very compact. Now, what you're going leave this undisturbed down into the vessel that you're using. Don't press on the herbs. As I said, you don't want to get all those little bits and pieces coming through your strainer, but just let it drip down. And it'll eventually drain out from all of the herbs and flowers. Once it stops dripping, then you can move on to And if you're wondering Rosemary Gladstar often recommends putting these into the compost pile, if you're comfortable with that. Now, when it comes to decanting if you have dark glass but don't worry. If all you have is a clear glass bottle, that's fine too because we're in a dark cool place. And when I say a dark cool place, I'm thinking along the lines of maybe the working pantry in your kitchen, or a cabinet in your kitchen but you don't want to in your bathroom, where you may have heat associated with your shower. To extend its life, or cabinet is best. Now, if you've had a where I talked to you about so to speak, that I like these are many bottles from recycling bins. So if you have friends and neighbors who tend to throw this type of stuff out you may want to let them know that you might like to in your own home, by Because I think as traditional of us who like to make home remedies, we know that often what we consider treasures. And when it comes to finding treasures for the traditional foods kitchen, as well as the kitchen garden, I'll be sure to link to those videos where I talk about all the things that I like to look for from the garbage. Now, generally, what I like to do is if I do have an eyedropper this is a very small little one, but I might put some tincture in here. I might just put it in a jar and then use a little to something like this, you know, for just keeping very handy. It really depends. There's no exact science as to And the good news is, if you've made your medicinal this has a very long shelf life. This is going to stay very potent for years and years and years. If you've used glycerin, your will stay fresh and potent And if you've used raw apple cider vinegar to make your medicinal herbal tincture it'll probably stay fresh and Now for today, I'm going to go ahead and decant this particular headache into this bottle since I Now, if you would like to for making other type of including how to make medicinal herbal oils, and Be sure to check on this video over here where I have a complete playlist all about medicinal herbal remedies. And I look forward to in my Texas Hill country kitchen. Love, and God bless.