In October of 1347, 12 ships dropped anchor Those who eagerly approached were met with Almost all aboard were either dead or barely boils that dripped blood and pus. In horror, the Sicilian authorities demanded the damage had already been done. The Black Death was now in Europe and millions greatest disasters in history. Let's explore how the bubonic plague wiped if not more, in this episode of the Infographics Europe was hit hard by the plague, but it It was also not unaware of a disease that destruction elsewhere. Before the infested ships arrived in Sicily the populations of first China and then India, far. While no one knew what caused it or why, it Near and Far East. Further, when it appeared, it was by all accounts Those struck by the Black Death would begin groin area or under arm regions. The growths would soon develop into large even less fortunate, expand to the size of These would then fester and ooze various bodily Beyond this, those with the disease could symptoms. These included fever, pain, chills, sweating, Almost always, this was followed by death. According to those who observed its effects physical contact with the clothing of someone Though, some doctors claimed that it was the infected others as it passed by. Obviously, at this point in history the real well understood. Without understanding it, most were helpless Few areas other than some islands cut off through the pandemic plague-free. The rest of the population was not so lucky. The bacterium infiltrated virtually every perfectly healthy one day could be dead a It was uncommon though possible for someone died. Compounding problems further, those with the the first few days and so no one would be This meant that successfully isolating them all but impossible. Those who tried the next best thing to protect not safe there either. The plague decimated livestock as well and sheep who also died a brutal death. This was such a problem that it led to a shortage While many European areas had a death figure Florence perished. Sometimes, bodies of the deceased remained people still living to bury them. Thousands of French villages in addition to a single remaining soul. The Black Death had mercilessly transformed In some instances, nature eventually took were re-claimed by surrounding forest. It took aerial photography following the end as places where men, women, and children once Most estimates place Europe's death total percent, though the CDC claims it killed as more. World-wide estimates typically range from The world at the time was a mere 500 million or again according to some sources even more, So how was it that the Black Death was able people and animals alike? Well for one, as previously mentioned, there in the 1300s. Not only did people not understand the plague's were also countless failures in how those It is true that Yersina pestis, the bacterium is highly contagious. It can also be spread in many ways, though of them. Many believe that in its later stages it had that could be passed on to a new host via However, all strains, airborne or those in believed to have been transferred through And many animals in addition to countryside and blood sucking pests. Examples are things like squirrels, rabbits, However, many in the scientific field have the spread of the Black Death was the urban Part of the reason for this belief is that quite similar to those in people, and in cases the sickness had accompanying bites from fleas. Recent outbreaks often follow what's known die off in record amounts for whatever reason. Thus, the most prevalent theory is that the died and their fleas then looked for more which would at times be human. Upon being bitten by the contaminated flea bacteria. Seemingly in support of this theory, ships with the furry rodents who thrived in their moist environment. And following the death ships' arrival in following a trade route pattern, as it had throughout Europe and as far down as North However, more recently there have been some As we just mentioned, the Black Death, after in the world's history. There have been outbreaks before as well as followed a different pattern entirely. Europe's black death spread much faster, there was no mention of a mass rat die-off Now, some scientists suggest that it was human behind Europe's version of the disease. In this case fleas would bite infected people happened to be in the nearby vicinity. They describe the underlying mathematical different from a human-flea or lice one. And, when information was plugged into simulations data from seven of nine plague-hit European Those with this newest evidence admit that ongoing controversy. However, whether the fleas were of the human of one kind or another that likely passed It also turns out that the Black Death may by itself. When victims bodies were exhumed from mass discovered along with them. If anthrax was occurring at the same time things much worse. Anthrax cannot only be passed by coming into by mere skin contact. In other words, at the time of the Black Death a life-threatening disease of one kind or It is possible anthrax and other diseases due to already compromised immunity. Also, it is possible that the body count of victims that actually died from anthrax or Beyond its quick transfer from host to host the way the Black Death was treated failed victims or spread it further unintentionally. For example, at least initially, medical practitioners on patients with the plague. This is where they cut into veins or arteries so that their blood flowed freely. This procedure was nothing new and, in fact, Egypt and Greece. Historical figures believed that to be healthy phlegm, and bile. Bloodletting was believed to correct a possible caused the person to get sick. Unfortunately, the procedure appeared to be as it was for Charles II or George Washington While Washington awoke with a sore throat bloodletting treatment both died shortly thereafter. Boil-lancing was another technique used as sounds. Someone would essentially lance, or stick of their gooey contents. If this wasn't done, they would only continue poison their host due to the mass build-up Then again, popping them could also cause Beyond the patient likely dying, the boils spread the disease yet further. Other methods such as the burning of various rosewater were also, unsurprisingly, ineffective. In time, after failure upon failure and in simply stopped accepting patients. Even priests began refusing to perform last Where man failed nature did little to help Not only did people have little idea of how prone to succumbing to it. Studies of the remains of the European population a gene that offered them any form of immunity. The other 99.8% had none. Since so many of those who were susceptible their genes on further to the following generations. Many of those who did have the gene lived This is why Caucasian Americans now have a disease. This is pretty good news considering the modern One encounter via the 12 so-called death ships to such an extent that it would change the What do you think, was it passed on by human Let us know in the comments! Also, be sure to check out our other video Happen Again?! Thanks for watching, and, as always, don't subscribe. See you next time!