Ever wondered where you come Imagine that one day, your curiosity to invest in a DNA test, and after you send the kit back to the company and prepare Maybe you've got a war hero in your bloodline. Or an award-winning scientist. Or a selfless humankind. You might even get lucky and find When the results come in, you see a name had no idea that your father came from to cross-reference his name and find out A short Google later, your jaw drops. You under his name on the Google panel: What would you do if you found out your father try to make up for his crimes? Change your the questions that the children of Nazi Leaders the fall of the Third Reich. Some of them others defended them until the bitter what exactly happened to the children of The children of the fallen Nazi leadership the war. Some, however, never got to see Nazi propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels Magda and Joseph had six children, and marriage. This eldest son, Harald Quandt, to survive the end of World War II. The eleven-year-old Hildegard Traudel, nine-year-old six-year-old Hedwig Johanna, and four-year-old It was January of 1945, and the Red Army was As the threat grew closer, Goebbels moved his They remained there until April 22, 1945, when the point, the Goebbels family moved again, retreating garden. In the face of potential Soviet capture, possibility of dying by suicide rather than facing for them. Several people, including Karl Gebhardt children out of Berlin with them to ensure Joseph Goebbels refused to leave Berlin, personal loyalty&quot; required him to stay where alongside Hitler. What happened next varies from grim picture. Rochus Misch, the bunker's telephone see the children alive. He saw them sitting around as Madga combed their hair. Helga was crying children upstairs, he felt something terrible was Misch was correct. Something terrible did happen. Goebbels approached him toward the end of April, refused at first, insisting that the fate of her refused to let the issue drop and later told him than a plea for help. On the evening of May 1, the together in one room and told them that the doctor was no reason to be afraid because all children by one, Kunz injected each of the children with then the son, and then finished with the youngest. Once the children were unconscious, Kunz later capsules in her hands. After a few minutes passed, insisted he do it instead. He refused, and she Stumpfegger.&quot; She was referring to Dr. Ludwig At first, he refused the horrific order as well, people's children.&quot; But after being threatened comply, he entered the room with Madga Goebbels. Kunz that it was &quot;all over.&quot; The cyanide capsules and they were dead. Soon after, Madga and Joseph On May 3, 1945, Soviet troops discovered the bunker, still dressed in their pajamas, with Voss and radio broadcaster Hans Fritzsche were identified them as the children of Magda and the Buchau Cemetary in Berlin for an autopsy and of death was identified. Dr. Kunz would later and in January 1959, he was charged with six court proceedings were later stayed, citing the died at the age of 66 on September 23, 1976, Harald, was killed in a plane crash over Italy. Nazi leader Hermann Goring's only 1938. At her christening, Adolf Hitler himself the Goring country estate, where she was Princess.&quot; The Telegraph called her &quot;The Shirley began to close in and the war drew to an end, to his mountain home at Oversalzberg. On May 21, six-year-old Edda and her mother were interned Luxembourg. They were freed in 1946 and moved for her father to stand trial at Nuremberg, prison. He was sentenced to death for his crimes and swallowed a cyanide pill the night before. After his death, Edda and Emmy found electricity or running water. They later moved studied law. When it came to her father's role speaking of her father as a person she spoke to journalist Gerald Posner for his Third Reich Leaders,&quot; and said: &quot;I loved he loved me. My only memories of him are such In 2015, she petitioned the Bavarian State from her father's estate after the war. The few minutes. She died in 2018 at the age of 80 While Edda had fond memories of her father, other and had to learn about what their parents had daughter of Amon Goeth, an SS officer who oversaw Poland. He is perhaps best known as the List.&quot; When he was executed for his crimes, Monika's mother told her that her father not meant to do anything wrong. But in 1993, the reality of what her father had The realization made her sick. Monika set out including a 2008 documentary titled 'Inheritance.&quot; a woman who had been taken from a concentration house. In the film, Monika says, &quot;For it was not closure for me. I think it was I'm able to live the truth.&quot; Monika Hertwig is Niklas Frank was born on March 9, 1938, to Hans Frank. When Niklas was eight months old, his Poland. There, Frank was responsible for many the Jewish population of Poland. The amount of earned him the nickname &quot;The Butcher of Poland. as he was only seven years old when his father was after the death of his mother in 1959, He worked for German Playboy and at the his father and the older he got, the more obsessive hatred&quot; of the man. In 1987, Der Vater: Eine Abrechnung (The Father: A Settling as &quot;In the Shadow of the Reich.&quot; In 1995, his a depiction of a fictionalized version of asking him to answer for his sins. He did not stop German Mother&quot; about his mother and &quot;Brother In November 2020, Niklas spoke to Mia Swart in occupied Poland. &quot;I had known that we were but the war was not that real to me. I sitting in my father's black Mercedes and Our chauffeur said "oh that's a Tiger Tank" any bad things, any war things. There was when we were sitting at Schliersee and saw an Now, with all the knowledge he Niklas reflects on his father's death: &quot;I oppose got to experience the fear of death that he Albert Speer was a German architect and close of Armaments and War Production in Nazi Germany the party, he also oversaw the Central Department from their homes in Berlin. His son, Albert Speer he pursued a career in architecture with a a professor of urban planning at the University designed the Shanghai International Automobile He spoke of his father infrequently and obituary in The New York Times, he deliberately life. His decision to become an architect was according to him. He did not hate his father who went over your homework.&quot; Albert Speer Jr. One of the most infamous Nazi leaders of all devoted followers and a driving force behind the child, a daughter named Gudrun. When Gudrun the SS. As Gudrun grew up, she experienced life attending Christmas parties with Hitler Gudrun and her father traveled to a concentration her diary: &quot;Today we went to the SS concentration saw the gardening work. We saw the pear the prisoners. Marvelous. And afterward, Over the years, her diary captured her feelings wrote on March 5, 1945, &quot;We no longer have ourselves. The Luftwaffe is still so bad. that windbag. Goebbels is doing a lot, but he except Pappi, and he should be the first to get Heinrich Himmler. On April 19, as Hitler and all the others are up there and remain for the begun. Daddy has found it terribly difficult with believe that the soldiers will no longer fight. In May of 1945, 15-year-old Gudrun and her mother by American troops there. Meanwhile, her father his mustache, and put on an eyepatch to hide his Soviet forces on May 20, killing himself with While Gudrun and her mother were held she went on hunger strike. After four years were released and settled in Bielefeld in seamstress and bookbinder but struggled to get Nazi regime. She used an assumed name to take a Service from 1961 to 1963 until her true In the late 1960s, she married a writer named NPD, the right-wing National Democratic Party of and had two children. You might be wondering how in the aftermath of World War II. The answer is expressed shame. She would wear a silver brooch heads shaped like a swastika. She was an active or Silent Help, which helped former Nazis escape to South America. Through her work with the Nazi war criminals such as Klaus Barbie, known was an SS guard convicted of killing prisoners at sentenced to death in absentia by a Czech court, a retirement home outside of Munich, on land that lived there until 2001. As for Gudrun herself, Rudolf Hess was a prominent member of the Nazi Adolf Hitler from 1933 to 1941. His only son, Wolf 1937. He lived with his parents until May of an attempt to arrange peace talks with the Duke and the Nazi government officially denounced Wolf's mother, Ilse, took Wolf to the family's Wolf's mother was arrested and interned at aunt until his mother's release in March but architecture was not his only passion. Wolf was fixated on his father's death, which in Berlin. Wolf believed that the British for his father's death. He wrote three &quot;My Father Rudolf Hess.&quot; &quot;Who Murdered My nothing.&quot; Wolf Rudiger Hess suffered a stroke At age 15, a boy named Rainer Hoess was on Camp when he recognized his last name on an be confused with Rudolf Hess) was the commandant also his grandfather. After discovering the truth he left home and cut them off. He then began past and confronting the horrors of the return stolen possessions to the descendants of The story of Rainier Hoess would he was faced with accusations of fraud. He taking money that he claimed was going to be used there was no film, just 200,000 euros in he has faced 18 convictions in 20 years, accusations (and convictions) have called into his grandfather's crimes and whether or not he is Martin Bormann was the head of the Nazi to Adolf Hitler. He had ten children, but was named after him. Like Edda Goring, as his godfather. He was a dedicated young Nazi or Crown Prince. He attended the Nazi Party the school's closure On April 15, 1945. On May 1, the one who helped kill the Goebbels children). Merano. After his mother's death, Martin was taken converted to Catholicism. He became an altar boy intelligence officers and taken for questioning. Martin was ordained a Catholic priest on July 26, 1958. He worked as a missionary in the Congo he left the priesthood and married a former In 2000, Martin spoke to Spectator UK about his hope that I can meet him as a redeemed, saved man that he brought upon himself in his political In 2011, a troubling story came out regarding boarding school when he was 30 years old. who reached out to newspapers with his story, and told him that no one would believe him if he Bormann was physically abusive during his time as but Bormann told Austrian magazine Victor. The case was never officially One of the most notable descendants of Nazi leaders but rather the granddaughter of his of Ernst Himmler, Heinrich Himmler's younger her family's past, she confronted them head-on &quot;The Himmler Brothers: A German Family History.&quot; and their third brother Gebhard. As she delved when the task became almost too much to bear. In during my research, it was quite difficult for more and more shocking. We descendants were left his actions cast a large shadow that the rest of Though Heinrich Himmler is the most infamous of was responsible for plenty of his own she learned that her grandfather had been later death of Major Schmidt, a Jewish engineer. but after Ernst wrote him off and dismissed him die in a labor camp. In 2011, she appeared in the lives of several descendants of prominent she gave an interview to Time, where she name. She once planned to change her name that changing the name would be another way to During the interview, journalist Belinda descendants of Nazi leaders to avoid having Katrin explained that this was not her personal Germany have decided to do that. But for thought -- that bloodlines define everything. make your own decisions. For me, it was Katrin has a son with her ex-husband, whose family Now check out "What They Didn't Tell You About