There's a huge story here that nobody talks about. Even the cancer doctors don't talk about why aren't you teaching this? This is like It starts here. It begins here. So I know we took a break in this episode, but just to appreciate the remaining part of what books, the Diabetes Code, the Obesity Code, and type two diabetes. And are we basically, doing extra insulin and this whole concept of insulin which I highly recommend for everybody, which that? What happens when you have, neoplasia who else other, and I'm so appreciative to be Very good, thanks, Sanjay. And I think we're gonna do something And that's gonna be share right, appreciate this next trans transitional Yeah. Yeah. And what I'm gonna talk about now is we left off was the sort of genetic paradigm. And basically what I was taught. So in the 1990s, two of cancer, which is that, cells are made, they're too fast was that they have mutations in their genes, the onco genes, these tumor suppressive to have the bright mutation in those genes, Then And that became the sort of somatic mutation not a germ cell mutation is how it happens. was that this was it. So we went all in on this, everybody was following this genetic paradigm The idea is that say you have breast cancer you expose it to some kind of mutagen. So for tobacco smoke or any of these carcinogens and it targeted mutations. They're random mutations. by chance one of them might hit this oncogene and cell would then grow. It made a few predictions. so you get this mutation and it would be a genetic which would mean that every single cell in And then once it gets big enough, it breaks off number of problems with the somatic mutation First, the cancer is not genetically homogenous, clone through the whole thing, that is fine, so this primary tumor has a bunch of sub clones in different mutations. If you look at lymph nodes, or thousands or even millions of different cell primary tumor. It is not genetically homogenous. that if these cells are getting new mutations cancer looks the same? That is, you have a hundred different people whose cancers have mutated and yet everybody with that stage two colon cancer make any sense at all. And if these are random If you think about it, cancers have things the in 2000, which was the hallmarks of cancer. but prior to that, nobody had looked at what makes colon cancer, whatever. But in 2000, a couple it that makes cancer the same? So that was the looking at it as a single sort of disease and and we'll get into that in a second, but back other problem was that became very clear. Was All these things had hundreds And to that same point, I think part of the, start therapy. It's did I respond or did I not? of the five spots that we know of, decrease growing and that's where this whole thought of, When people are opting to do that, it's because Just people think of covid and the vaccine works these things are very heterogeneous. Like you that tissue that they sampled and the mutational was on the tumor spot that they biopsied. It ran for molecular, I'm sorry, you don't have represent the one that's in another place Exactly. We know they will. That's not a Yeah. And so hopefully, as long as we're using targeted basically liquid testing of the shedding of DNA to treat neoplasia or cancer as a whole, like that maybe you could open up to some targets, and targeted therapy, it may not work on the but somewhere else and then you start just how many things can I treat at once? Because on some and some don't on the other, and eager about what you're gonna share, which is just talk about the process and wherein So this is what I'm talking about. So he did a paper in science. And this is basically cell here, and then you have multiple clones. The primary tumor here in section A, that there's to different metastases, maybe it starts off as by the time you look at it, this metastasis has these, these in one single patient, which is what gonna have like tens, hundreds, maybe thousands here too. And the problem too is that when you get same mutations at all. Everything is completely if you look here, for example, colorectal, you non synonymous mutations per tumor, how many which was that sort of single hit, multiple You're looking at, I don't know, 500 mutations, 180. Whoa. Like you cannot treat right? It's just way too many. And if you look total? This is the cosmic database, 2018. So they took all the known mutations you have? Just coding mutations alone. Okay, so it's not like one or two. It's not like there's 6 million of these damn things. So how are that you have the other opposite problem, right? mutation, you get this cancer. So you have to which is that how many people have these mutations saying that it's this mutation causes this cancer, Turns out, absolutely, yes. So here's a study from remember 2010's is when the whole somatic it completely is wrong. We know that. It's not this is by age. This is the number of people who three 31,000 cancer cases and 26,000 controls. don't have cancer. And what they find is that the are affected in the cancer effect cohort are also that you almost have, yes, there's a few more 90% of the people with this same mutation, do get this mutation, you get this cancer. Most cancer. And again, this was covered in the New they did was they took cancer-free individuals esophageal tissue that was there for a different mutations as you get older. You get a bunch of per cell in their twenties, late in life, you you get the same mutations in these known cancer Otherwise known as proco gene or onco gene, So you have the mutations in those onco genes, but somatic mutation theory was just clearly not true. number of problems and what's worse is that intervening time, it produces very few treatment with cml. So that gets us to so those are the a little bit bummed because this is not fit and the sort of beginnings of this evolutionary which is one of the most cited papers in cancer. for let's think about cancer. What is it that you have colorectal cancer, they're nothing alike. staging, but what makes them cancer? And they which are the same. Okay? And this is this there's eight of them now, but they basically hallmarks. One is that they grow, right? So cancer liver doesn't get bigger, it just stays the same bigger. Second is that their immortal cells, that flick limit, which means that you can only divide Whereas cancer cells are completely immortal. You Lacks, where her cervical cancer cells are is that they move around. So normal nausea, liver ride on the, in the blood vessels to the brain. a hallmark of all cancers. And then there's cancer produces energy. And this is a fascinating sort of energy generation. Glycolysis is anaerobic molecule of glucose produces two ATP lactic acid. you get the burn and you have to stop. If you use that's oxidative. And then you burn this glucose So you get 18 times as much of energy per glucose. it's growing all the time, needs a lot of energy. doesn't. The Warburg Effect says that cancer, That is, they produce very little ATP and lactic And it's not. And there's theories why, and we'll hallmarks of cancer. This is what differentiates how does cancer develop, because this idea that of a sudden it goes, just doesn't compute. So in Sorry, I'm saying this like the same way that or lynch syndrome, I've heard families, I'm it. And they're like my whole family apparently it then that's germline now. So you're the same concept can be appreciated. you're born with it in all of your cells. And not a hundred percent, then that tells It's not just having that mutation that or ovarian cancer. And yeah. And that may be a Yeah. And people talk about these genetic but you have to realize that, the risk of breast have that mutation, your risk of breast cancer is actually quite low. So there's been a difference. We pardon this interruption real quick. If you're what we discussed and the education and how we would very much appreciate a subscribe, that information as maximally and broadly as So anyway, so as they're trying to understand some new people. They're bring in some new I actually asked a bunch of non-cancer doctors who's actually an astrobiologist. And he, they, to work on cancer. He's yeah I'm I don't work on the National Cancer Institute said, good, we want into cancer. So he talked about a few things. coming in with no preconception. He thinks about right? And why does it exist? Because all the to treat it, but they're not thinking about what exist? And one of the things he realizes quickly actually find it in every single one of your can also develop cancer. So even if you look we used to look at them in the microscope in high they get cancer. So the thing is that if you won't understand cancer, it's not that humanity. Dogs get cancer, cats get cancers, So the answer to how cancer develops or why it cancer. You have to go back further because it's think about life on earth, there's sort of two were quite monumental in terms of the development of move from Prokaryotes to Eukaryotes, so bunch of nucleus and all this sort of stuff. multicellularity. We started all as single-celled And when you jump to multicellularity, it's difference between a single-celled organism and the cellular level, each individual cell, each with all its other cells. Like you're gonna for food, you're gonna compete for space. And it's When you get multiple cells altogether, you have, in your liver can't compete with each other, take these cells and you put 'em all together hearts and then humans. But this, this jump from a actually fundamentally different than the other, If you think about a single cell organism, single limit on that growth. So you put bacteria on a left, right? You get exponential growth until we should ration ourselves. Whereas multi-celled tightly controlled because you have to cooperate, cooperate for the good of the organism. This Single celled organisms are immortal, right? They Multi celled organisms have this lic limit that and shorter until you can't divide anymore. So they have all different ways that it moves The point is that it moves, whereas single cell It's locked into where it's supposed to be. And ICAM, all of these different adhesion molecules And the other thing is that single-cell organisms organisms, they only ferment in the absence of oxidative force fall phosphorylation. And if you between a cancer cell and a normal cell. And single celled organism, the priority is its own It's not looking after the yeast. Next door to the cells have to work together, all sacrifice that the organism will survive the way that organisms compete with other cells, whereas the We talked about the hallmarks of cancer, and those And if you think about it, there's actually many de specialize, right? So organisms, multi-celled your cells together, you make a heart, you make They're just a big glob of stuff. Same as single They have to do everything for themselves. They're the single celled organism look out for itself. of course, destroy us in its quest to get new environments, you compete for resources, that single cell organisms they, they, there's they can change their genes is to have an unstable in all the time. Cancer cells, of course, have a do not. So in all these different ways, the cancer So if you think about it, cancer behaves much like I think, as you said, as like a virus, right? If more alike than other diseases. If you think big one, do they invade tissue? Yes. Cancer, yes. of a sudden invade the lung. Does it metastasize disease never metastasizes into something else. radiotherapy, the next time you treat it with that? That in the treatment with antibiotics, heart disease? Like you stent something and then Genetic mutation. So cancer, you treat it, it Absolutely. Heart disease. It's the same over. Do these cells evolve? Yes. Do they secrete You get the bacterial slime, cancer, you have you don't. It's just the clogged up artery. organism that is now invasive. And the question okay, so now we know what this cancer actually is it a forward evolution or is it a backward about this is the evolutionary theory. So you is the single celled organism, okay? And it as it evolves to multicellularity, you don't lose original playbook of genes. What you do is you they're immortal. This blocks the immortality, growth. Initially it wants to move around. This This is the Warburg Effect. This is what it is. kernel of single celled organism is still there. every single one of our cells. So as you become a As you become cancer, you're not adding new And then you're revealing the underlying kernel which is the unicellular ancestor from which we cell of every animal on earth. And that's single cell type. It doesn't matter, breast, lung, multi-celled organism can develop cancer. Why? And if you think about it, it's a backwards cell. And that's actually how cancer is described. it's a primitive cell, it's a dedifferentiated back formation. It's going backwards. All of these feature, which is called an atavism. You're not evolved cells. So you're not adding new mutations, underlying primitive playbook of the single Yeah, that's it. We actually, the timeliness is so at Tufts, so he's bioelectric study of cancer, just completely unaware of. But his whole point they have their inherent ability to basically on a unicellular level. He's like, when you have or where everything is like in motion and working the skin cells know what they have to do for this community like, the most ideal, community the bioelectric circuit and whatever that reason the things that you're telling us about it's the escape that just now all of a sudden which is survival and it can't it just loses does what it's supposed to do, almost in a way you've ju you're just doing what you like been taught to do because you've been out of sync Absolutely. Because you're going back to a organism is great cuz you can specialize. But the what you have right, is this sort of normal lung towards the embryonic stem cell. And that explains that actually a lot of evidence exists for that hypothesizing that cancer is a disease that is genes and multicellular genes, then we can go are mutated, but when are these genes mutated? and divide them into these phyllo strata. Phyllo sort of recent genes. And then you can divide by millions of years, the more ancient genes, unicellular genes, and these are sort of recent find the mutations in cancer? It's all here. right? It's not the multicellular stuff. We're but all the genes that you need to worry This is age in millions of years. These are the mutated and under mutated genes in cancer, they're really, not really different until you get to the mutations in cancer happens. Not your new genes, you are switching over from unicellularity to mutations happen and you can't look for it like the age of the gene. Same thing here. You break right here and right here. Whether you look at you look at where all the gene mutations happen. here. Is that, so these are unicellular genes, and study. This was from 2016. So again, if you look they mutated? The phyllo strata. It's all right line with where it's supposed to be. But all the which is from here, protozoa, single cell organism This is mind boggling.. When.. It's mind boggling. Truly. It is. So is a reversion. It's an activism towards the the sin, single celled organism existence. But complex to do this, and it's shows the same one biological force that is strong enough, things. You need genetic heterogeneity, you need the classic Charles Darwin. You have a bird and right? So there's a lot of nuts around. So other side of the island. It feeds on fruit. So it evolution is that you have to have gene genetic and they get selected. It's a selection pressure chronicity, right? So you need these three things. the normal cell towards a primitive cell, and chronicity first, because any chronic sub lethal it chooses the most survivable cell, right? Your or your lung cell, it's working fine. All of a damage, it's gonna choose the most survivable that are immortal, that are can move So you're saying it's more, you're saying than it is like genetic mutations over time, as there are genetic mutations, but it's this chronic genetic cancers, right? But the majority are one gene mutation. There are a few, right? especially the childhoods right there are purely, that older person cancer, that really isn't clear. Pathological, like breast cancer, prostate damage, he took it a step further and said it's is, it's probably, primer but he was very strong there's more to it than just mitochondrial. But like everyone says inflammation, and it can be damage. Yeah. First it has to have time, right? injuries versus chronic injuries, acute injuries damage but don't cause cancer. It's only hepatitis burn. You don't get cancer, but you get chronic you don't get cancer. If you get chronic soot, you Everybody was worried about acute radiation, but damage. So the idea is that, if you think about celled organism. And think of it like a single yourself. You're competing with other people for example, where everybody has to cooperate. to the single person in the woods? And it's for. So if you have too much injury, so you just kill everything. Everything's dead, right? you're bombed out, shell, if you have too little the middle there, you have this chronic sub lethal adaptation that is the cells are there, but if So they actually try to survive. And the way they and order. That is ev it's all of a sudden it's have this sort of well-ordered thing to do. So gonna select for those cells that are closer to what you're doing is you evolve to cellularity. then this survivalist sort of core of cancer, You knock these off so that you can reveal about it is that this evolution, this idea that is actually we actually know it happens. So this We have bacteria, they branch off here, Eukarya is what cancer looks like. This is from the New biopsies right from this site. They took biopsies you can create the exact same thing. You see how have this mutation. These are shared metastases. this, but some branch off here, some branch off only do you have genetic heterogeneity, you have problems with the somatic mutation theory. But you which ones you're selecting for. That's the injury are potentially carcinogenic because even things like barit esophagus, which gonna cause chronic damage is going to be there's nothing particularly mutagenic about it, inflammation is chronic damage. And therefore cirrhosis, any type of cirrhosis is going to known this. In fact, it was buried back when we talked about genetic mutations, but to the cell causes cancer, right? Sunburns very thing that you're treating cancer with What you're treating cancer with causes cancer Anything. It's almost everything in medicine. It's to unicellular's existence, which is brought on Now you have to find out what that injury is paradigm explains so much about it. And then, and gonna go into is how metastasis happens, and then because it has a number of implications for evolutionary paradigm, this explains a heck of random mutations just doesn't explain it, but you okay you have the primary tumor formation, which you have intravasation which is getting into the So metastasis is very interesting because how do lung cell. A lung cell. The way we typically think then lodges into your lung. How does it survive survive in the bone? Like the matrix is completely like, Hey, where's all the milk docs? If there's would it evolve? How to survive in the lung? it evolve the ability to survive in the liver? It It can only do that if it evolves that ability. So Warburg Effect. So this is the whole thing. oxygen, right? You get 36 ATP and carbon dioxide. oxygen, but it doesn't do that. And one of the then it doesn't matter how much like you get tons of glucose, then this is not a limiting But if you think about what cancer does, building blocks. So you can use this lactate as the traditional way of thinking about this right? The vast majorities of cancer lysis have it's some kind of metabolic defect that is, theory because if the vast majority of cancers then by definition it's not stupid. We're the looking into why the Warburg Effect is so it all wrong. We're saying cancer is stupid. It's theory this is this needs is that the lactate is acid, so it's producing tons and tons. This cancer Remember that this cancer cell, there's a lot these immune cells that are trying to kill it. it's going to protect this cancer cell from the If, remember, it destroys the other cells, right? other cells or anything that makes it's neighbor basement membrane, so it helps it invade right? Lactic acid is going to create angiogenesis and bring in macrophages like Because when you get inflammation, your body build, it's going to create new blood vessels, which is gonna bring in new growth cells, you get inflammation, but you actually need to and the cancer loves that because remember, you It's a new invasive species. This is good lactic hypoxic, acidic environment, which does a So what you get when you get this sort of hypoxic HIF, which is, oh, I can't remember off the hypoxic inducible factor and what it does. you get is all of these effects. Angiogenesis, These are all the things you're activating with have a hypoxic acidic area. So that's good for the tumor. And that's, Is a lot better explanation because it's using glucose, not just for energy, substance for itself. A lot better than, and we're losing the war. So the, the next step it breaks down a lot of basement membranes happen? Say you have a lung cell and it goes to get to the bone? And this is the idea that an extremely early event. So the hypothesis and as soon as it develops, before you can even Okay, it's just sloughing off. Cancer cells wiped out. They can't survive. The blood is the side of the blood vessel wall. And there's are just killing it all the time. So these cancer once in a while because there's genetic but it can't live because if you have a cancer and it lands in the liver it has no idea how to goes, it dies. The only place it can come back the blood circulates through, and then lands back self seating. But those cancer cells that have pressure, right? This is evolution. You sent out survived was selected because it was slightly cells. So when it comes back to that original sends out lung cancer cells. All of them of them comes back to the original site. Now it it's in its sanctuary. So it can grow, but it's for a more survival cell. So it starts to grow and Until you select for now you're this, you're getting multiple genetic clones that It's not a single genetic clone It consists of multiple clones because it's And then eventually it just keeps going and It's like covid, like every Greek letter, like and the different variants. It's it's cloned and this is like prostate cancer, it's like, why is you castrate sensitive and it's okay, good. Like et cetera. But the moment you've selected by The moment it becomes cast resistant. and everything. I'm like, when a patient gets cancer, if they're cast sensitive versus it's a whole different scenario. And it is you've selected for something. Now that doesn't we've somehow made it more aggressive. say you had one or two sensitive, you haven't live at that slow growing rate for two years go away for a year. But then in that next it would've been to quote unquote let it ride. Exactly. I don't know.. That's.. In fact, this is.. You're raising so many questions.. Exactly right. Because this paradigm, this in prostate cancer, should you use maximally so here you have, this is what you're talking a resistant cell in green. If you use a maximally the green proliferates, all of a sudden your adaptive dose, that is over time you kill a few, and each time the number of prostate cancer cells not the maximally tolerated dose. Do you do that a lot of these tumors do better. Why? Because selection pressure. You can only understand as an evolutionary disease. Otherwise you'd say Autologous bone marrow transplant. Didn't introducing a selection pressure. That do you just give, maximum antibiotics forever? That's the same thing we're doing here cuz They're both single-celled organisms. If you just extremely quickly. So the whole point is that It changes even when we talk about screening and an early event, you can pick up these cancer cells by the blood. It explains why any type of immune Cause cancer is like an evolutionary disease. It's species. Your immune system's trying to kill it. reason whether it's transplant or whatever, you're infections. Exactly the same. If you talk about fascinating to me. If you look at mammography, and this is from the New England Journal in of mammography, you have people who you screen, four die of breast cancer, and some die of get the same 956 women live. There's virtually which is younger women, right? And there's the ones you biopsy and so on. But your actual understand why there's such small benefits because cancers early, then why are you not seeing any tumor grows to a large tumor, which now breaks going from a small tumor to a big tumor, right? but it doesn't work. So the question is why it that until you understand the evolutionary metastases come very early. It's not the size you. So in order to it, it's not this it's not What you have to do is try picking up and what happens with mammography. I'll blow this up a little bit. If you look at you pick up a lot of early stage cancer, but you So you're picking up a lot of DCIs stage one system would've kept it in check, or it eventually number of late stage cancer, which is the women in order to see a benefit. But instead number with late stage. So the same number millions of women with early stage cancer that off their breast and so on. And they would never they were early stage. So this is the 40 to right? Because even back here in 2012, this is to picking up early stage disease. You only have it's not the size that kills you, it's the can't pick it up with the size or you can't pick else may do better job but not mammography. Of couldn't we not be seeing more? I'm sorry. Could we not be seeing more of the, taking it out at an early stage? Is that, could Yeah, because that's what we thought. If you take to a late stage, but it didn't happen. This is have and it never actually happened that so a remember we started to roll back some of the it just didn't help. So this is completely Yeah. A hundred percent. And that's why, cancer screening. Is so much more radically of the other things are argued colonoscopies outta four because almost everything is like be unknown and it has this potential to spread. remember these are old technologies, right? together. It is possible that newer technologies But this was the whole controversy with Yeah, for sure. And that, and that's CT for massive benefit compared to anything else with But the one thought I'm having in my head as is I've two patients, like one that had a liver disease. From their colorectal cancer five cycles of Folfox. And traditionally, we're let's just keep going to six cycles, eight cycles where I'm perplexed now, especially if I see no three out of the six Folfox cycles, oxaliplatin, I'm like, should I stop trying to push it and have no evidence of disease on the scans now. when I've seen the cytoreduction and the example for anyone listening. Purely meaning like this but I have one patient and it doesn't happen any more treatment. Like they weren't really sick, preyed on it and had a weird feeling about very concerned. It was a colorectal, there was and this is just again for something evidence of disease, the liver mets gone away and She's had her three month and her six month not been treating her like for like stage four four to six cycles. And I'm just, saying nothing it was so perplexing about like, why is, am I not And in this other case where they are a younger, very interested in making sure that the duration the lifetime of it. It's an interesting, very It's fascinating.. Looking into it. That's exactly why understanding this paradigm now I understand. We've knocked it down to the whatever is there. If we keep going, you knock it the 10 goes to nine, but then they mutate because right? You have cellulitis, you treat it with mostly better. Your immune system can handle it. not. You absolutely do not give more antibiotic because you are going to select for resistance get so super overtreated that you wind up getting these multi-resistant e-coli in your UTI. Why? first place. You're not making it better, you're that cancer is an evolutionary process, then you data for this, right? I don't have the studies I understand why this actually may be a good I could hit again with FolFox or FolFiri, or because it will work again. Just like you keep hammering it with. Whatever. It develops resistance. You give it cipro, it gets cipro it FolFox, it's gonna get FolFox resistance. You the same process. Same thing with the metastatic It's just like an infection. You can't stop a balance between cancer and our anti-cancer thing with bacteria. Bacteria all around us. Same thing. There's a cancer and our immune is that it sounds so strange to say that it's that's really weird. That's how our immune system Your body recognizes it as a non-self and an right? You don't need to have seen this ever cell. So what you need to do then is enhance the immunotherapy, which explains why this genetic pushing on it. There's 6 million mutations. You is develop ways to enhance the immune system and toxin is a fascinating story. In the 19 hundreds cancer. I think it was melanoma. Anyway, they put the other side cuz they didn't separate them. He erysipelas, which is a streptococci infection, what the hell happened? Why did that And the answer is that it stimulated an immune of the cancer. And for years, people use so-called if this guy would take bacteria this concoction and it actually cured a whole bunch of cancers. It but it worked in a number of cases it still inflammation that you're teaching the I gotta fight all this bacteria. But hey, here's you broke through the citadel, you got in there, Hey, I'm here fighting the erysipelas, but really bad too, and it destroyed it. So Coley's it still works. In fact, it is the leading edge doing. We're trying to teach our immune system as well, which is another fascinating effect a metastatic cancer. So there's lesions all you radiate it, and then the other lung cancer thing. The radiation has broken down. That your immune system has says, Hey, now all of You said, Hey, here's the thing. Now you attack. things, the abscopal effect was so rare, but now that sort of unveiled the tumors now that when you you're seeing many case reports of the abscopal from post, in the last five, six years, right? But the rest of the nodules go away. But that's why, explains how all of these things might be of just Newton and seeing the apple come down realize, there's something here. Because in that and it's protected and there's no clarity, it's the people look like that are the impostors penetrate that microenvironment. All of a sudden like they sketch somebody for this is the person just shot it around and all of a sudden all these has been there ready, but not knowing quite what what they need now and they can go around the I recognize that. I think it's similar to even. I they would actually scratch and irritate with inflame it, to just again, supercharge, have them that would, make the lesion supposedly Exactly. And it wouldn't work. I have to go by standard of care, but I, and I get is pain from a bone lesion or something. Knowing one, I wanna pate the pain. Two, it's appropriate, a tumor in a bone. But I can't not at least immunotherapy or triple therapy with cytotoxin develop or basically express its contents. Like shouldn't say this, but I just, I wonder if that's good control or dramatic responses compared to can't radiate. If there isn't a bone lesion or It's something to consider. Judge you for that what? Involved. And again it's based on a sort of more evolutionary sort of target that is constantly It's like a bacteria, it's like a virus, right? If you think about it that way. There's no difference. And remember, melanoma is probably the interferons. Right? Why would interferons work? interferons for multiple myeloma. Yeah. You got like hell. But it worked, right? Why? Why does it It doesn't in any way. It basically stimulates species, right? And that's a much better way to new treatments for cancer all come out of this but nobody talks about this evolutionary paradigm. everything that we do. And just trying to look target. Let's go for that. Why are you doing that? are around it doesn't make any sense. It's you're that hasn't really worked. The newer stuff is of the nutritional things. Because again, if you invasive species, can you change the way that they as with ketogenic diets, such as with other things interested in. I don't think it's the whole answer the things that I always thought interesting So in the nineties, we didn't ever talk about 2001, there's that big New England study that said cancer. So the WHO now has 14 different obesity It does not cause gene mutations. Being fat cancer? And the answer is that it's a disease of if you have things that are trying to grow and you basically it, right? So hyperinsulinemia by itself two diabetes is a risk factor. Another disease Because cancer is like an invasive species. You get rid of those Again, you can't understand that theory, which was so spectacularly wrong and it talking about genes. It's a genetic disease. It's Yes, there are gene mutations, but you what is causing those gene mutations? Obesity's, these gene mutations? Because you are, breast there are gene mutations. I'm not denying that what's causing that gene mutations. So if it's a But in colorectal cancer, what is Evolution. It's an evolutionary process. It's that's coming in and out for regular colorectal. for ulcerative colitis, for sure we do. It's sure we do. It's that alcohol, that chronic liver cells towards a primitive phenotype, which is a because the kernel of cancer is every you just make it so simple, but it's like, why are mean it's smoking when you know what is, what's so why the incidence is so much higher than a smoker Never. Smoke is not targeted mutation, asbestos is what is the genetic mutation in lung cancer? looking. Remember, evolution is about selective So same thing in Darwin's Island. Is it nuts or So what's driving the mutations in lung driving it towards survivability, which means and un unveil that sort of cancer phenotype, right? It.. Asbestos. Same thing, right? not mutagenic. All of these things from a somatic mutation theory standpoint, What you've done with me, Jason? No sense. I think it's a fascinating topic, I was thinking about the link between obesity I'm like, holy crap. There's a huge story here don't talk about this. And I'm like, blown away. it makes sense. We're already following it, but what's that book? The Emperor of All It's like, why not? This is like That's why we're doing it here, Jason. It starts for this. I just I'm so excited about what we have a big oncology community, not just because it helps us celebrate, and this is one one of this episode on every talk I've done since think people are very hungry and desperate and why haven't we figured this out? Why does it this helps to start, maybe explain it and almost is, yeah, almost to a frustrating level with money and technology and everything we have. I it's a hoax. They're purposely hiding the I think it's obviously not that, but it's like swap the lens. We're getting there, but just Then think about it. Think about your patient. who respond extremely well to, chemotherapy tolerated dose. MTD, stop it, watch it, and That's why they'll survive longer guidelines. Yeah. That's why they'll say you can't, it's it's like why sometimes, why if you have a and should be the same thing. These all say a younger oncologist oh, you always treat of that they stopped it, but it's still not fri if you stop it here, it'd do better. That's why or wait till return. And I never understood that That's crazy. But again, how hard, how much do you also the heterogeneity, that kind of calamity that Now it really helps make sense be part of the decision making. If Have studies break, help guide us. Yeah.. Because I guarantee you like 95% of the research paradigm of cancer. Cuz people don't understand, if 95% of your billions of dollars are going to are involved in cancer, you're missing the boat it's why are there genetic mutations? We wanna know why. Why are there 700 genetic right? Explains why you have a hundred people completely different mutational profiles, right? they all look the same. How did they all get That kernel of cancer is just being unveiled off the sort of overlying thing. You had the and you took out the old playbook. That's all it The single celled organism playbook was always because it, to me it's a, it's a hopeful thing. two th by 2010, 2012, remember all those studies, talking about heterogeneity and 700 mutations. it's completely unusable. This somatic mutation sort of theory of cancer is just, it's gonna open It's crazy. It is it's why, I'm literally, I'm and, but it starts with things like this. So you, the fact that you were just like, yeah, like this is necessary. And now I see why at an ethical, this is a necessity, this is how talk about it, to understand it, to be humbled yet we're still seeing these, outcomes like we