And yet every single year, hundreds of thousands of very real, prepare endlessly, pour their blood, sweat at competitions around the world in and the sheer amount of competitions since the time that Bartok The solo piano competition has a particularly unique potency what comes to mind immediately emotional extremes, Pianists with their claws out and their teachers GRETA: Have you ever heard of Competitive Edge?! to dislike one's opponents?! Thinking about competitions I get jitters, you know, you still feel indeed, Bartok was onto something. I mean, the idea of giving a prize which is so subjective, seems kind of This kind of sports-like athletic environment Well, it's complicated. Most pianists have a quite ambivalent competitions are a necessary still means it's an evil. Several pianists who I reached out to didn't even want to talk about it and even our favorite competition, indifferent about the topic Of course, competitions They can expose us to pianists They provide a platform for talented And for us pianists, They can be a goal for us to the next level in our playing, I wanted to see what I can do with music. okay, maybe I can do a little more I always wanted to try challenging myself Whether we like it or not, competitions so we have to learn how to live with them. the competition isn't the last step. It's the first step! I'm Robert Fleitz from Tonebase, I've had the wonderful opportunity winning pianists these pianists have participated in some of the world's and today they've graciously opened up in our current musical landscape, in participating in them, competitions like a real winner always yourself as a musician Be sure to stick around to the end, see that the path to winning a competition I feel like I've made pretty much can make in preparing over the years... be sure to like the video and subscribe and exciting piano content. And while you're at it, which is the platform So without further ado, &quot;and may the odds be ever in your favor...&quot; What really is the role of the piano competition going through the process and it can of course you win some, you lose some, I think the way I tend to view potential opportunity It's a question of, presenting yourself on stage and then walking off that stage with on, you know, it gave me a lot of benefits started competing in international I was already mid-20s. Competition was a great tool basically my career began the Honens Competition, actually before then, you could on one hand, I had done very few. Halfway I decided just to stop doing competitions just to develop my repertoire Even after in 2013, I was 23 years old And I really made it that I'm not going And took a five year break. and I remember I went to that one because it was not anymore like, if I don't win, I went there almost like, I would love I ended up winning that one. And that was officially it. You want to end on a high note! that I don't really want to do anymore and asking myself a question, there is no answer to this question. and be more humble about the artistry I've had competitions and I've been really unhappy because And I've had competitions where I got because I came on stage the most important part is to be sure which was in your hands So you're at least not frustrated so many times I said to myself, Look, I'm I'm never going to I don't ever want and you start working on three or four months, and they are talking about on, they're going to this competition. Then you feel like, hey, you know what? And I think this process, It's not an easy process. Just being in a competition that, because that's what competition is doing, I think my favorite thing about and getting to hear them I've met so many people that I love and value and who inspire me some of the most long lasting at some point, especially in that kind of mid to late 20th century, So winning a big prize was a guarantee but you've got a career out of it. &quot;To become a top pianist. Sooner or later, What you have to win is one of the major competitions&quot; When I won the Chopin, there were three competitions at the time, Tchaikovsky, If you won one of those, your name would be on the front page then competitions proliferated. don't have just like a dozen but you have a couple dozen important ones And of course, for like actually or you have to do much more than before and the competitiveness is much higher people play so well much more prepared I think that it's important that speaks to your strengths I think finding the right kind of match pay attention to all the details different things and what they're really trying to achieve. see who they are secretly looking for and see if you are one of those! It's useful So yeah, there are distinct advantages and those not only change depending on your own personality, but where you are in your development example, if you're doing competitions at university, at the conservatory, compared to doing it a couple of years when you might not still be in the really formative years people like myself who want to work some kind of deadlines, it's helping. because you are evaluated by some professional jury members, Maybe sometimes even more carefully. So there is a kind of motivating force there, which is good. On the other hand, this is the time as much as possible, and having the freedom to experiment with your interpretive approaches, with if you are one of these people to competitions for ten years, And it might yield But once you start a performing career to get invited. When your concerto list is two concerti and your solo repertoire is two Your interpretations might change, If you're spending so much time you might be missing important classes that can inspire So you really have to find the right time One of my mentors in the past always said DON'T DO ANY COMPETITIONS. And then it may not work for everyone. in the competition setting. We want to see like perfect techniques, That's kind of expected, but those two are just a small part of so many things. You might be able to sell your program maybe in a more audience Competitions shouldn't be just the only one way that's going to guarantee your success as a musician. paths towards making a career You don't require those so-called barriers to entry or barriers of entry you don't need those same stepping stones of landscape and competitions The first obstacle to most high profile is the extensive repertoire requirement, It can be quite tricky with the difficulty it's a little bit chaotic for me, I would say I prepare as much as I can, you have to choose your repertoire the right balance between taking the boxes requires specifically, What they would need to hear, to compare your playing I think you have to So to not to just think of the competition from any other concert 18, 19, there were just certain pieces you think will work in a competition You want to play the really hard stuff. In my case, I tried to balance out with the pieces that I really wanted I preferred really underrepresented I started expanding my repertoire if you take that risk and you believe more than if you're just like, okay, well, I think everybody should just they will make mistakes But there is no such thing as like honestly, like there were why adding new piece like just keep doing same thing over and over I know my energy come from new pieces. even though I cannot win I still wanted to add new pieces I'm going to always limit myself. I didn't want that. It can be difficult when you're comparing yourself To really stay true But that's really the core of it. I personally have always I'm playing the repertoire that I care The minute that I start thinking is the minute that I lose you play what you love. You play And that's that's the mantra to go by. And I think in a competition you got to be really confident We can tell from the first moment even before they make the first sound, just knowing who you are I've been given this advice I just never seem to take it, the first time that I did and did not prepare the concerto, I was 17 I had not touched the concerto for a year I started looking at it again I hadn't expected to advance that far I knew that I didn't know the piece. such a terrible performance. And I was so disoriented I'll never forget one of the jurors afterward, hugging me and telling me like, &quot;I just wanted to let you know, you didn't forget.&quot; lol when I was younger and I was so judgmental about people's And, you know, I kind of had this sense I'm in my twenties, I'll make sure And then you get a bit older to do during the year than to practice no, I have a lot more empathy and final rounds. Although pop culture portrays piano competitions competitive environment... &quot;This is not an ashram, sweetie face. This is a battleground!!!!!!!&quot; it's often a place where we actually meet I think the most important thing in competitions and the people who's playing we want to promote the things we want we are all matured professional musicians, Even though this setting Because music is always priority that particular year, We were all in the same school, and we were preparing together They knew all of my repertoire, you know, six months of listening and knowing what you're competing against, this is how you're going to play it. Hearing the comments of the teacher that's what We we all said something like, Yeah, it's going to be really funny for us You know, And that was exactly how it turned out. I mean, unbelievably, The three of us won the top three prizes. we were friends all before. And it took some time, when I like somebody's playing, I always try Even if it's somebody who hasn't passed. Sometimes I'll I'll hear something And I love that. And, you know, I love what you did. I've gotten that from colleagues as well. And I think that's like equally important because the jury won't be there forever hopefully will be around in the profession I'm still in contact with all my friends and those are the people it is a supportive group Everyone knows that. whenever I know of someone I'm always like, well, Building these communities is so important because the competition process And as pianist, We're often practicing So it's so essential even within these competitive I think competitions should be viewed attitude. Competitions but they also do incredible things when they get to come to a place beautiful music for an audience, with their competitors, their colleagues, I think performing on stage for audiences, and it is an extremely difficult If you are able to somehow concerts continuously, having certain, let's say, with regular late, it'll sound a bit corny. But to me, everybody who participates, everybody who gets up on We learn so much from hearing our colleagues play the piano, from watching my colleagues one thing that people should be aware of they shouldn't have any expectations, frustrating things on planet earth I think. it can get very chaotic. The pressure can be, And and you have to be ready I think that if we go into piano we can create a landscape In the musical world I don't really care and that sounds potentially dismissive, I care very much about the way that I play and also to my own view of what I want But beyond that, if I've played exactly and somebody doesn't like it, I'm going to be really happy that because actually that's kind of rare whether you're a veteran getting started in your piano journey, for example, I love Nico Namoradze's lesson on Scriabin etudes and also Claire Huangci's lessons on Scarlatti Sonatas and Chopin Nocturnes. these are such wonderful resources of all of what is available so be sure to check it out by clicking the link in the description Thanks so much for joining us today I'm thinking about also doing a part two, actually speaking to competition So let me know if that sounds Let me know also about all of your own and beautiful thoughts about competitions. I would love to hear what you all are Be sure to like this video and subscribe to the channel and I thank you again for making it You win the Gold prize from me! I will see you next time. Ciao!