- This will be Homer - Come on, you're gonna I've seen this man eat a bowl of change! This eclair is over one million calories, 25 pounds of butter per square inch, covered with chocolate so dark, light cannot escape its surface. No, no, no! This is just a picture. - [Andrew] Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Binging with I forgot to film my walk-on shot, so here's a little bit of Squeaky clean, so now let's take a look at that eclair from The Simpsons. First up, we gotta make some choux pastry, combining 180 grams of unsalted water and milk in a large Then, in a separate bowl, of bread flour, one tablespoon of sugar, and 12 grams of butter powder. This is an attempt to pack even into our eclairs. Go ahead and bring the butter, up to a bare simmer. As soon as you start around the outside of the and add the dry ingredients, mixing together into a thick pasty dough. Once all the flour's nice and hydrated and no dry clumps remain, back over medium heat for anywhere from five to seven minutes. And, joy of joys, we need You know that it's ready when a thin layer of fond starts forming on the bottom of the pot. This indicates that your or something, I dunno. Kendall told me what it means Dump this into the bowl of with the paddle attachment attached, bust up and thoroughly beat and then we're gonna slowly while it's running, maybe letting it fully before adding any more. Our objective is to turn into more of a gooey batter, which you know it's done when stretched between two fingers, or it makes the Dairy Queen, Let's try that again. Or it makes the Dairy Or when it makes the Dairy when a finger dipped into That means our dough is ready to pipe, so we're gonna place it into a piping bag and then line a rimmed baking using nonstick spray Once you got that nice and laid out, it's time to pipe out some pastry fingers. You can expect them to in the oven, so bear that on length and girth, and you want to stop squeezing flip the pastry back onto itself. Then once everybody's including the runty last one, you can flatten these little tails out using a wetted finger. Then these guys are headed for the oven, where I learned a lesson I started off my first batch for about 20, 25 minutes, which unfortunately I did a little bit of too high temperatures in the Good news is that these which means that our pastry's good. We just got to try cranking So for the next batch, I went with 375, plus slightly smaller fingers These guys came out much and no blowouts. But as you may have predicted, to kill anyone, much less Homer Simpson. So slightly bigger fingers, 375 Fahrenheit for 30 to 35 minutes, and convection function towards for perfectly puffed choux Now, while these guys cool completely, we got a bunch of other stuff to make. First up, some pastry cream. We're measuring out 150 grams of eggs. Go ahead and beat those up a and set them aside. Then, in a separate bowl, out of 40 grams of corn that we're gonna whisk in and 50 grams of whole milk. Go ahead and tiny whisk and bear in mind, you're before you use it. Last thing before we head we're gonna slice and Now, in our large saucepan, we're combining 400 grams of and our sliced and scraped vanilla bean. Whisk to combine, and we're gonna bring this We just want it getting a little steamy. Then we're gonna go do the We're gonna start by whisking into our eggs. Sorry, tiny whisk, I think this because in order to temper milk mixture, we need to Now here you can see me blissfully milk everywhere because it's I'm just living my life, So you might want to do what custard on the show, which is But I think I got enough in there, so I'm gonna dump the eggs once again whisking to make sure that we Then this guy's headed where we're gonna bring over medium heat. And of course, story of my Once it just starts to that we're gonna add This stuff starts to thicken so you want to pour it in slowly and, you guessed it, whisk constantly. We're gonna cook this whisking constantly, until the corn starch is fully activated and we Kill the heat, and then all we have to do is add 45 grams of unsalted that it really doesn't want to leave. Whisk that in until it's retrieved the vanilla pod, a classic vanilla pastry cream, which now needs to be fully chilled, and the fastest way to do on a rimmed baking sheet This stuff starts to so we want to immediately making sure that there are no air bubbles and that it's all directly in contact with the surface of the custard. Then this guy's headed into the Last up, the chocolate glaze, that light could not escape its surface. So I got 250 grams of finely chopped very very dark chocolate, which I'm gonna start to About halfway through, of unsalted butter cut into cubes and about 15 grams of the darkest cocoa powder I could find. Also, since dark chocolate we're gonna bring some sweetness by virtue of 75 grams of corn syrup. Go ahead and melt that mixing constantly, of course, until it's smooth and But first we must fill our eclairs. The traditional way to do at three points in the and use those as entry points for the nozzle of a piping bag. Pipe just about as much because you want to fill as best you can. Then these guys are going in the chocolate bath. I found it helpful to and let chocolate drip off one side, so that way you end up with Once those guys are all we're gonna let that set before attempting to decorate For that, we've got one and a a teaspoon of vanilla extract, of powdered sugar, which into what you might think but it's not, it's Chantilly cream. It sounds fancier. Also, Chantilly cream is, by definition, about twice as sweet as whipped cream, which we need with all Now all we have to do is pipe onto our eclairs, which, as you can see, I'm struggling with, but and by the fifth or sixth one, I was actually making And there you have it, a extra dark chocolatey eclairs. Of varying decorative quality, and sure, it looks pretty And the answer is, pretty tasty, just like an eclair, with maybe but it's definitely not and it's definitely not gonna For that, we need to step up so let's make some big I'm baking these at 350 to make sure that they don't burn and so that they're cooked There we go. That's looking a little And Kendall had a fun idea As you may or may not know, I may or may not be allergic to bananas. Not really sure. Last time I ate a banana, I So a few healthy glugs of banana extract, and maybe a slightly more There we go, that looks every bit as scary as I hoped it would, so now let's use it to This will be Binging with Babish's last, I can't do a French accent, I guess. Make sure it's filled to the give it a dip, let it drip crisp chocolatey edges, let and then the Chantilly was kind of this big gnarled stripe. So there that is, and here we go. Nice knowing you guys. I had a good run. Oop! Thank you, Kendall Lisa. (jazzy music)