My friend Sarah Chase has written two of my Cooking and Cold Weather Cooking. But the best thing is, she was involved in knows everything there is to know about So she's here to make a turkey with me. Who better to do it? And we're going to make a turkey with white idea. And you're going to put it under the Yes. What we want to do is with your hands, and world. And pretty much you don't want to that's going to tear the turkey skin because We want a big rock on your hands, but. Not while you're making the turkey or. Not. This hand is going underneath the And then we take wads of butter. Wads of butter. Always a good idea. And Thanksgiving after. All. We smoosh it around underneath the skin. And what this butter is going to do is help perfume the entire bird. We're just going to take an onion and cut it You don't even have to peel it just like Rather than stuffing the turkey, we're just actually lessens the roasting time. Okay. So we've got an onion and a half a head The whole thing peel and all. Okay. So the first thing we have to do is Right. Yeah. Okay. So you're going to hold it open and I'm Yeah. Lots and lots of salt. Make sure it tastes really good. And pepper. Okay. And then onions. Okay. We want some time in there. Actually, the wackiest story I ever heard is Put the turkey in the oven, set it, and went And when he came back, couldn't open the And I said, why? She said, because I set it So they had to unscrew the door in order to And I said, what did you do? And she said, I served it. She said it was very clean. Okay. So should I tie it up? Sure. I'm just going to drizzle a couple over. And this is just almost like suntan Helps with the even browning no SPF in here. The turkey roast gets it nice and brown. And you just want to rub a light coating all And once that is on, you want to take your Isn't that gorgeous? And just sprinkle it manner. And then lots of salt and pepper Because I don't know about you, but I live Okay, into the oven 325 degrees for about two meat is 160 degrees right in the middle of And the good news is no basting about When the breast is golden. Cover it loosely with aluminum foil just to And how's this for an idea? If you want the skin to be crisp, don't base Take the turkey out to rest for 15 to 20 It'll bring all the juices back into the I have knives and forks for everybody. Or am I going to? I'm going to give you a How's that? All right. And I'm using my That's the best turkey I ever had. Was unbelievable. And how easy was that? First I'm going to make the filling. Two tablespoons of olive oil. I love these Tuscan flavors. And I'm going to put a little prosciutto in One and one half cups of onion. I'm going to add three quarters of a It's going to give it great flavor. And I'm going to cook these together until So I'm going to add some garlic. Two tablespoons which is about six cloves. I always add at the end because you don't That's a terrible flavor. Not good in Turkey. So I'm just going to cook this for about 30s garlic. To turn it off next. Rosemary, it's got a lot of flavor. I need about a tablespoon chopped up. The next thing is one tablespoon of chopped Right in. So that's the urban onion mixture. Next the turkey. So what I asked the butcher to do is give me still on. And then I asked him to butterfly So we kind of cut this way and opened it up. And that way I get the herb and onion So first I'm going to season it. I need four teaspoons of salt. Don't skimp on the salt. It makes all the difference in the world. And one and a half teaspoons of pepper. Okay. The next ingredient is butter because I'm going to take four tablespoons. And I know you're going to think I'm crazy, It's kind of the easiest way to distribute You want to make sure you get all the butter And then it gets rolled up inside the turkey Okay. Next is the onion mixture. I'll just spread the whole thing out. Just like this. Okay. And now prosciutto. So I'm going to take slices of prosciutto So I'm going to start at one end. And when it's done you'll see it's going to So I've got kitchen twine. The tighter you tie it, the more evenly it's So really give it a nice yank when you're This will feed probably 8 to 10. Now just to make it look really pretty, I'm underneath each of the ties. And then when it comes out of the oven, it Okay. How does that look? I put it on a rack so it doesn't sit in the It roasts evenly all around. Okay. Right on top. Okay. It's pretty dry, but I'm going to pat better if it's dry. Just. Have it like that. Perfect. Brush it with olive oil. Make sure it gets nice and browned. Beautiful brown skin, of course. Lots of salt and pepper. And last I'm going to put one cup of wine. Don't pour it over the turkey. Put it right in the pan and one cup of water There are two steps. First, I'll put it in a 350 degree oven and The time will depend on the size of the thermometer and when it registers 150 Then second, and equally important, I'm it rest for 15 minutes so the juices get Okay. Are you ready for a gorgeous turkey? Ta da! I love the way it looks. All the flavoring gets all the way through You can see the fennel seeds. Okay. So I'm going to put one big piece The restaurant on the platter. This is so moist, it doesn't even need It's got pan juices. Right over the turkey. I would say, once you've made a turkey this Old fashioned way. It is Thanksgiving, so you have to have But I'm going to do something really simple. Roast turkey breast. So much easier to do. And you don't have to carve that whole bird. I'm just going to go wash my hands and I'll Now I'm going to make the most flavorful Turkey really doesn't have that much flavor, Really bring out the turkey ness. So the first thing I'm going to do is about I'm going to take this rub and put it So good. Two teaspoons of mustard I'm using It's got lots of intense flavor. And then lots of fresh herbs. Tablespoon of fresh sage. Tablespoon of fresh rosemary. And maybe just a teaspoon of fresh. That's more than a teaspoon. A fresh thyme. I'm just going to chop them all up together I need two teaspoons of salt. I know everybody's worried about salt, but Teaspoon of pepper. Just mix them all together. And then in order to make it into a rub, I'm oil. And because I like a little edge on a teaspoon or two of freshly squeezed lemon flavor. So now all I'm going to do is put So it really is directly on the turkey meat. So this is a whole turkey breast. It's actually two halves and they're still That's about 6 or PS7 total. And what you want to do is just very skin, and you just really pull it apart from pocket to put the herbs in. Just try not to puncture the skin so the Hands are Cook's best friend. Just going to rub half the herbs underneath Mm. Can smell that sage garlic. It's going to be so delicious. Pour a cup of white wine into the pan. This will give it flavor and keep it really Cook it in a 325 degree oven for about two Thermometer inserted in the thickest part of will be done. Cover it with foil and allow minutes. I'm going to make my favorite roast Oh, that's a big turkey. I don't understand why our mothers used to turkey. I can't figure it out. I think they had this thing about bacteria. A PS12 turkey should roast in about 2.5 And it'll be moist and delicious. That's a beautiful bird. So the first thing I'm going to do is take Ooh. It's cold, it's wet. And I'm going to save it for stock later. And this looks beautiful. And then I'm going to pat it dry. So I'm going to put some salt in the middle Just make sure it's really well seasoned. We're not going to do stuffing. You know. It's enough with the stuffing. I'm going to put all kinds of things in the flavor. So I'm going to stuff it with onion. Forget peeling it. Forget just chop the whole thing up and just It's great. And then maybe a big sprigs of And then we're going to have lemon. I'm going to put big chunks of lemon in just That's going to be so delicious. And then maybe the last thing is a big chunk Put a big chunk of it right in the middle of And then the last thing is I'm going to take so they're not flapping around in the pan finish cooking. You're basically just doing The turkey. It doesn't mind. So I've got about four tablespoons of butter Just brush it nicely on the outside of the Remember, it's a big bird, so salt it really So about 2.5 hours at 350 degrees. And we're going to have a fabulous turkey. Oh I love it. Doesn't that look gorgeous. So I'm just going to wrap it up with Really makes a difference if you let it rest Just let the juices get into the meat. The whole thing. We'll taste fabulous. I carve a turkey the same way I carve a So I'll show you what I do. I'm going to take the legs off. Relax. Perfectly cooked. And then I to. Cut up the dark meat a little bit. Okay, I'm going to carve the dark meat On this side. Okay. And then I'm going to carve the turkey I'm going to do is take the whole breast off a chicken. It looks perfectly cooked. I'm just going to slice it. So much easier to do this one, and I like that they fall apart. So just like that. Okay. And maybe a second pair here. Doesn't look half bad, does it?