Translator: Nastya Lichman 66 million years ago, a mountain-sized asteroid traveling 10 times faster slammed into the shallow seas covering what is now The immense energy of that impact and it vaporized the asteroid, part of Mexico Well, this fireball rose far above the earth's atmosphere and spread over the planet. As it cooled, molten drops of rock about the size into an immense swarm of shooting stars. The shooting stars re-entered and heated the upper atmosphere Standing at the ground, the dinosaurs saw the blue sky The scientific artist David Hardy imagines the fate of the dinosaurs They broiled to death The energy in the sky is like If you're dying to experience turn your oven on broil and hop in. (Laughter) The glowing skies Great clouds of smoke rose into the upper atmosphere so that no sunlight reached the ground. It became cold and dark. Photosynthesis stopped, and plants and animals, either starved or froze to death. The dinosaurs didn't do anything wrong It was just fate and killed 70% of the species Unfortunately, in our lifetimes, we may experience the same fate But I'm not talking I'm talking about a nuclear war. A nuclear war would have that the dinosaurs experienced. But this time it absolutely Fortunately, there are things that we If you live in a city there's a missile If you live in a city a major university, a large airport, an oil refinery or oil storage facilities, there's a hydrogen bomb We live in a perilous era. There are 15,000 And the 9 nuclear weapon states The United States and North Korea, NATO and Russia, India and Pakistan. We're just one misunderstanding, one mistake, or one fanatic politician In World War II, fleets of hundreds were used to bomb a single city. But with the invention of the atomic bomb, only one airplane and one bomb was needed. The Enola Gay carried one atomic bomb with the power of 15,000 tons of TNT. And when it dropped that bomb a hundred thousand people died. Over time, even more powerful Hydrogen bombs. This 1960s airplane the red and white things there, and had the power of 500 Hiroshima bombs. And of course the United States They have intercontinental ballistic and they have nuclear A single Trident missile submarine can carry a hundred hydrogen bombs with the explosive power Knowing the power we can understand the destructiveness if these were ever used. Let us imagine, for example, attacks Pyongyang, with the smallest bomb 500,000 people - about the population Nuclear weapons kill people In this orange circle, that it knocks down concrete buildings In the red circle, there's radiation that's released The radiation would kill 50 to 90% over the next few weeks. In this green circle, with enough power to knock down And in this yellow circle, there's a blast of light so bright that if your skin was exposed, you'd get third-degree burns, and flammable things like leaves, would burst into flames. And of course, if we attack North Korea, they're likely to attack us back. If they use the same size and they've already tested one like this, they could kill 150,000 people And these terrifying scenarios are just each if side But Russia and the United States That's enough to attack each city in each country, with 10 atomic bombs. In a war like that, 400 million people in China, in Russia, in Europe But wait, that's not all. (Laughter) I've just been talking about That's all the military considers But there will be collateral effects. Remember the dinosaurs: that killed three quarters of the species And the same would happen cities would catch on fire and burn. It's this damage, the damage the military the damage that's just that might destroy human civilization. Even a war between India and Pakistan, two of the smallest nuclear powers, with only a few hundred weapons We might die as unintended consequences that the Indian and Pakistani generals My colleagues Luke Oman and Alan Robock after a war between India and Pakistan. It only takes about two weeks And it would rise to altitudes between 20 At those altitudes, it never rains. The smoke would stay there for years. This farmer, maybe in Europe but many thousands of miles is looking at the smoky sky above him that have died in his field It's estimated that in a war we would lose 10 to 40% for years afterward The entire world only has enough food unless agriculture produces more food. Ira Helfand, a member International Physicians has estimated that one after a war between India And after a full-scale nuclear war, temperatures would plunge We would be in a nuclear winter. No crops would grow. It is estimated that 90% would starve to death, And no one would be safe. Not those in countries not those in countries and not those from where the explosions occurred. No one would be safe. I bet you're not getting a warm (Laughter) But we don't have to just keep walking toward disaster. We can do things to stop a nuclear war and prevent global starvation In the 1980s, politicians recognized and did things about it. Nowadays, politicians don't seem And the younger generations We baby-boomers had this drummed into us. In grade school, we were taught and how to get under our desk in a hopeless attempt (Laughter) In middle school, our mothers told us, &quot;You can't drink your milk anymore, because the 500 atmospheric had poisoned the earth with radiation. And the popular culture such as Godzilla, which is a Japanese In the 1980s, I worked with Richard Turco, to tell Mikhail Gorbachev about the dangers of a nuclear war. We told him a nuclear war that could end civilization as we know it. And they listened. (Applause) Ronald Reagan said, &quot;A great many that such a war could just because we would wipe And Mikhail Gorbachev said, &quot;Models made showed that a nuclear war that would be extremely destructive the knowledge of that to people of honor and morality, to act in that situation. In September of 2017, banning nuclear weapons like landmines, chemical and biological weapons Unfortunately, the nuclear weapons states and just plod on like they have been. It's up to us to wake them up before they sleepwalk What can you do about this? Talk to your political representatives. Tell them you'd like to report to us on what would happen They did this in the 1980s. How many people would die in Korea if we attack them with nuclear weapons? How many people would die in Russia, China, South Korea and Japan, the countries that surround North Korea? What will happen if like every other it does not go as planned And you should ask your politicians In launch on warning, the American president can launch without consulting anyone, which is carried everywhere In 1968, the United States signed the treaty to prevent In that treaty, we promised to build our nuclear arsenals We need to keep that promise. All of our lives may depend on it. (Applause) Thank you.