Chani Nicholas: and all of you. Let's build something else. And late, late, late, late stage hour of capitalism. on a precipice of total effing collapse. Thea Anderson: Chani Nicholas: entered the chat, just in time for Brat [intro music] Hello and welcome. This is Down Thea Anderson: Eliza Robertson: Chani Nicholas: so we are post-election. In this podcast, if of what just happened and then what just happened of what's to come as well. But like everybody a grieving session, a reflection section on, or So we did a lot of work on the charts of the two surrounding the election. We did a little bit We spent a lot of episodes kind of talking what the astrology might say. And I think it's beings to talk about how it felt to have done lived through and be living through the results of with a great amount of like, I don't know, like any of us actually ever feel certain when we're but like, you don't have to be living through the you can make fun of things, you can, you live through the event and you're like, So I just wanted to kind of how you doing? How you feeling? What's going on but also in terms of what we've said Thea Anderson: Like what is, what has been happening? I mean, And it feels as if personally I'm collecting and I was telling you this a little bit, right away. And then it just felt like too much. like where could I have seen this, right? As being in the news, looking at all these live through time is, it's you take your whole and your community with you. And then when looked at from the past, it's really like, And so there was a little bit for me personally, who loves to talk about the world, who loves to about what could this all mean on a collective was incredibly devastating, and not surprising, with now is like, where is there, where is there at something and you, I think hope has to get currently today. And it's probably the only way an astrologer, is to always have hope. And even if might be subjective, it just feels like a hopeful Eliza Robertson: Speaking for myself, I think I had, you we really broke down the transits a technique that's called annual profections. better place by transit. I mean, he literally he literally had Venus, which is one of the the day of the election. That happens once a a pretty sweet thing, and it happened to fall So there was that, but I think, speaking again full story [Chani: Yes, yeah]. Which is why, and happens in January, looking at, again [Chani: work out with what's transiting. And that's the last episode because I didn't really want to And I don't know that I was in denial as much of clinging onto the hope of it all, which can can also lead to incredible disappointment and as well. Not saying it's not necessary [Chani: Thea Anderson: about you because you said the other day that you just wondering like, how this felt, I don't know. I lived this. I lived through time. I know this up for you having lived through this moment Chani Nicholas: like deep analysis or prediction about who would going into the election, just a deep grief out because of Gaza? So I was entering it, like I okay, man, this is like an impossible pill to So I felt similarly complex about Hillary in and then you're like, okay, well, we've you know, ugh, like very establishment, war in other countries and being don't actually add up to any kind of just and This is what I feel like, in the face of fascism, opposition. So the Mars-Pluto opposition that of an epic effing battle. And if you do not have signature, you are going to be decimated. If in on your queue, on your tablet, on whatever not addressing the rage of the people that of people that are deeply angry about a variety says you're angry and you're right, and this is they blame queer folks. They blame all the things that they can do to justify people's anger, they all okay; it's getting better." You have to say, because money has entered politics in a way that to democracy." You cannot lie at all in the face in the face of fascism. You have to say, "You is unaddressed is a wide open door for a dictator So I had the same unease in 2016 as all of us that are adults, we've lived this doesn't look good. I don't like the astrology maybe? Maybe. Maybe reproductive rights, maybe. can fight them on everything else. And I of like, "Oh, it looks really good. It looks like like maybe this is a death nail in the MAGA in the Democratic Party's coffin. Like, I don't but I think in general like public, people And then it's like I said on Instagram have a white nationalist dictator who just ran for you had a old white man who is living in the past, era of politics, but instead clung to power the hot mess to a Black South Asian woman So just on like every level, my mind splits apart like, you can see this coming from miles away, salvage everything that we could salvage. And of like, whoa, everyone's saying that but then he's gonna put all these tariffs afford anything. But we live in this culture realities and none of them are sharing the same corporate capitalistic greed and because And we don't have an anti-establishment party have an anti-establishment party that is for have something that is for folks: migrant folks, parents. Like, we don't have any kind of "Yes! this system is devouring itself else." And that's the only thing that late stage hour of capitalism. Because on a precipice of total effing collapse. Thea Anderson: Chani Nicholas: entered the chat, just in time for Brat You know? It's just like, and I was a lot of people like I know, I've been having situations and just feeling the depths of despair. okay, welcome the chaos. Like, here we are, looking at the moment, and just feeling like be obliterated and sidetracked by this ridiculous we know he's going to hire and fire people, Anyways, that's my very long-winded way of saying, I'm great, thanks for asking Eliza Robertson: we've talked about this and we'll keep talking talked about it in person recently. But we're the biggest and one of the banner years: one where all of the slow moving planets change landscape is being formed next year [Chani: flavor or shaping tool in how that is contoured, Chani, that there needs to be a force rising in an to make sure that the tyranny does not, you a damn good job so far, but it does need to be And I think that's the hope I draw from the left can actually recognize that you know, towing the party line, middle that this kind of look for the party is not create the change that we need. And that maybe of energy can rise from those ashes, from the I think we're a long way from that, but Thea Anderson: it die. Like, if we're talking about Mars-Pluto, in Cancer opposing Pluto in Capricorn, and then I feel like the new fight is kind of like you know what rallies people is a fucking And you have to be shown the limitations of what the new strategy is. And yeah, I Chani Nicholas: out the Mars-Pluto a little bit. So Mars was opposing Pluto at the last degree of Capricorn And then by the election, Mars went into remember when Mars went into Gemini, into torch by Biden. And so as Mars goes into Trump's So the Mars-Pluto of it all. Now, I just want Mars-Pluto, you know, is a signature of I thought that the election was going to close. I thought they were going to try to say had been stolen before it even happened. So we Now, I will say there's a lot of conspiracy steal the election because it's just too much of theories anywhere. But just in case the aliens might have, also here for it. Again, I'd like some of like "What is going on under the surface?" that, yes, something will get stolen, like your kind of force to meet your opponent. So I think unless something else gets revealed and is shown. So then on January 2nd, Mars will still be in Leo, Pluto a second time, and then the end of April, of April, Mars and Pluto will oppose each signature from the beginning of November And because this really like massively important incident, we know that there's something about know how yet. I thought maybe they were gonna be I don't even know if that's possible, but thing. So I'm not exactly, we'll have to like But, Thea, maybe this is what you're saying, like, Leo is a sign of leadership, and if Mars leader up against Pluto in Aquarius is kind of the masses. So I don't know. Maybe it will, but maybe it will stoke the resistance that Thea Anderson: saying that. And I think I'm saying, in Cancer opposing Pluto in Capricorn closed [Chani: Yeah], and this three opposition in Leo, it's really loud [Chani: Mm-hmm, it's a Pluto in Aquarius for a sort of re-energized Now we all experience it, so there's people on I'm to read it in a way that feels, it does feel what were you saying, Eliza? Like we still kind of we still have a long way to go. And I know we call like, October surprise in election season? January's surprise moment? Like, we're like Eliza Robertson: is what I was looking at in the [Chani: So Mars time]. Yeah [Chani: It's stations retrograde], retrograde until February, which means even though 18th, it's going to backtrack into Cancer. And when it does that, retrograde Mars in Cancer will planetary guide, or avatar of the year, which is transit [Chani: No, it's not good, no] to have. So I do wonder if, this is maybe my optimism [Chani: Let's do it. Let's is going to happen. And maybe it's just govern [Chani: Yeah, yeah, yeah][Thea: He Chani Nicholas: Mm-hm. Yeah] Yeah [Thea: Release those health your ruler of your 6th House of health in the 12th anything, but I'm just saying, astrologically, Eliza Robertson: least two people have tried to kill him this like this has been such a volatile season that going to be totally smooth and as expected. maybe it'll all just unroll as it seems like it of the lumpy astrology and with him just being I think there are bound to be a few more what the nature of them is, I do not know, Chani Nicholas: for him through that Mars in Cancer period Eliza Robertson: or if something happens to him, who knows? But I'm that's going to be like. And maybe it is just as of governing, so the best period of his presidency Chani Nicholas: will go over that part of his chart, January, April. So the very first, like, his 100 days are Chani Nicholas: maybe, I don't know, Demetria, you can tell it's like awful for who? Is it awful for him? because it is ruling his 6th House and 7th is it ever awful for him? Don't know. But subordinates because it rules that 6th House you know, he does that anyways. So, yeah [Eliza: maybe there are more] [Thea: Yeah, it's like even when you're talking about the Sun-Uranus person Okay. So, we are in a part of the year, we're thus far in terms of like that first big is going to station retrograde on December 6th. harder, crunchier situation. It seems. we're going to talk about the year 2025. There right at the opening of 2025. And I think it to talk again about Inauguration Day, just be inaugurated. I keep saying probably. I'm "Ooh, well, maybe [Thea Anderson: We know who's gonna be inaugurated on Inauguration what is a Pluto cazimi that's happening on as unfolding in this hot mess of a cabinet? Thea Anderson: the Dark Lord, gets a spotlight [Chani: astrologically?], yes. So Pluto is the planet that's kind of hidden beneath the surface. And And it's in, as it makes, the Sun makes in the beginning of Aquarius. It's in the Sun. So it's like that solar moment that it right? I think there's a reinforcement of that planet's significations. But because of all these do that feels like a really, I'm just getting like a warmth cazimi, it's just like kind a kind of a glare in a metaphorical way, and But all of the people who are kind of now coming want to subjugate others, want to hoard like for instance, like Elon Musk, and, Eliza, last week, people who want power but don't want to help better other people's lives are now in a so to speak. And that's kind of how I was even have a career in politics per se, serve in parts of his cabinet that need to Chani Nicholas: investigated for sex crimes are gonna be [Thea: like Pluto being like the underbelly of things and conjunction cazimi, is like highlighting Thea Anderson: an inauguration has so much symbolism around it, and all this kind of stuff that's like, put your right? Meets the Sun, the solar, the sovereign. incredibly hard to talk about because we know of that moment feels as though the people then who are hoarding money and power and have these backgrounds are now stepping into leadership roles and they have the ability to fire people and move think that that now is kind of how the three of that Pluto-cazimi in terms of what that means, new way of doing power, we're doing power in a Chani Nicholas: is the dawning of the Age of Aquarius," it's like, get into the Age of Aquarius and the fact that we fact that Elon Musk, it's the fact that Aquarius tech, and AI, and robots and machinery, because because that was the last time Pluto was was part of the Industrial Revolution. So we know to play with Pluto's transit through Aquarius, we and many astrologers have related that in this And so, with Elon Musk, like the guy who owns the Wants to colonize Mars], wants to colonize Mars, of him possibly as part of the cabinet, the part of the governing situation, along with just a being sex offenders. And just the whole thing is but this is actually looking -- I mean, Steve This feels organized] but this has a new flavor of Eliza Robertson: the richest man in the world [Chani: Right, you but he also has the means. He has the means just [Chani: Yeah, yeah], it is a new Pluto rules wealth. They call it a plutocracy power. And Elon Musk is a merging of these he's currently being tasked with basically it more efficient. And it just, it's, you know, environmental agency that stop him from killing So, we've had a Trump presidency, but we haven't removed. And I think that's what we're about to all of the, you know, when Trump won the election, bros, tech bros in charge, who are all racing to him and curry favor. You had crypto skyrocketing. subset of people. And again, I think what's of these technological advances, around these new as a president, they're all being removed. It just Chani Nicholas: on the Pluto cazimi happening on Inauguration something that is galvanizing to if you can still -- however you can gather that in Thea Anderson: Chani Nicholas: be a lot of stuff. Yes. [Thea: Yeah]. Yeah. Thea Anderson: interesting to see [Chani: Yeah, how the, yeah]. a second? [Chani: Please, go, go]. Just one has always favored money. Like 2008, Obama did economy. I just have to put that in this episode. Chani Nicholas: in Capricorn. This is the Thea Anderson: still follow the astrologic and be like, it's different. It has this Aquarian of talking about from space and tech, and the and also just wealthy people basically buying Chani Nicholas: do we wanna talk about how the Thea Anderson: in true Jupiter in Gemini fashion, which is the couple episodes, so a couple months, is the way media in order to get their message forward and it always kind of is flavored with whether it's is to reach new voters. And what I saw really was in the Times, etc., podcasts, like talking about is opened up like a totally and they both leveraged it to the extent that So Jupiter is the planet, I would say you who speak to the masses, and Gemini, the sign of if you look at Jupiter in the sign of Gemini, of its home. And what was really stunning to was to see Trump hunched over in a suit in screen. Or Harris in a couch, but she's sitting somebody who's wearing a sweatshirt. And it suddenly out of their element and thrust into on the most part, on the whole, didn't go to and in particular, like niche audiences. a CBS, a FOX even, and really want to hear what conversation, not on a debate, right? Which we what is the unpolished? What is the And so the New York Times has an article that they called it the manosphere. And we were talking like all these YouTuber streamers, people who have these large audiences now [Chani: the Joe Rogan's], Joe Rogan. That it as sort of like humanizing him, where like, oh my god, like so many people are gonna I understand him, he's real," and just totally and everything like that because all of sudden Chani Nicholas: he might go off, but it's not going to happen like Jupiter is in its other sign, the sign the planet of truth and meaning and, you know, like the principle or the morality test. If it's gets like [pfsh], it's like marbles on the ground So like part of what you're saying is, there was of a sudden opened up for them to go through, route that all the presidents always had, like those kind of channels. He didn't have to "This is who I am, and this is what I believe in, and this is why you should vote for me." He just Thea Anderson: then say, "Well, that's not true," right? That's or something like that. I think it was, I think, I was looking at 2024, and I was like, I online and something that's really, but it were just more other kinds of conversations that get a message across. And I think Trump leveraged I think Harris tried to do her own thing. The Chani Nicholas: Rogan. We had this conversation. But apparently it But the fact of the matter is, is that since so we're talking years and years and of white supremacy, white nationalism, and men creating networks online, in the gaming all of these things, and they've been Like, again, when we don't address the evils of actually means to live in a world that does not when we do not address the roots of that evil, find reasons to turn against each other. Like, against each other and anything actually So it just also feels like we are talking on the revealing of all the ways in which our economic structured systems that we live within, do not spiral of unraveling and corruption and supremacy that's what Capricorn's about, but because if Pluto just reveals what is at the root of things. Like, I wish we could rely on the fucking how human beings work. That's not how we work has been a long time we've been in these systems. hope that everyone's good inside." That's not We have to uncover the vitriol and the feelings stuff that lays underneath that these systems just hope everybody can catch your virtue signaling have very different understandings of that. have to demand equality in order for the humans We have major corporations getting subsidies the time, getting richer and richer and richer every -- you know, it's just like, it doesn't work. that are diseased, that are corrupt, that are corporations. You can't subsidize like Monsanto. that's poisoning us and not have everything Anyways, Jupiter in Gemini [laughs]. Thea Anderson: were distractions, you know? The the social things, the coconut -- you Chani Nicholas: Eliza Robertson: despair] what we're talking about. No, that's not but I do think it might be worth touching briefly Thea Anderson: can I say one more thing? This is the only, sorry, the Jupiter conjunct Uranus on April 20th -- if we look at that, we kept saying it was like moment of what's to come. And it was so, and we something different, people calling out corruption just think it was kind of clear to me that unless you were doing something that had that root level, that the message could just kind because I think already young people, students, it was so important -- like the sort of military corporations who are making money off of this something that addressed that at that root level, that of course it would just kind of poof and Eliza Robertson: Jupiter's like grand finale in Taurus, where it it moved into Gemini, which is, as we've talked of lost maybe the ability to really concretize or like you said, Thea, I think that's true. I Chani Nicholas: There was no time [Eliza: There was no time]. about the DNC and how awful the astrology was for and how challenging it was for Kamala specifically. And then she had this like okay, I guess we were wrong," and the one thing think this is why she lost the election, but I in the coal mine. It's a signification of the speak at the DNC? And that was the moment that opposed by Mars and Saturn. And it was like this and her party said "No, Palestinians do not have who are trying to get me in. And all three of us mistakes. And again, I don't know if it would would have gone in that direction, but it would Eliza Robertson: the parallels with 1968 because as we've talked research into this, and you were one of the three manifesting, especially in the spring with the First of all, it was called the most volatile we've now, we're rivaling it [Chani: Until now] Eliza Robertson: in the room was dominated at least in one part by Lyndon B. Johnson, he ended up dropping out So this was that other time in history where the another term, which is relatively unusual. ran and was left with the DNC basically to seek for him. There were two candidates competing Senior, so the father of like the anti-vaxxer now the whatever, you don't call them ministers Chani Nicholas: King of Health, which a lot of people are people that watch this podcast are very excited was not sarcastic?] No, I'm not Eliza Robertson: Anyway, his father was doing very well in until he was assassinated. And who was a Palestinian Jordanian man who was opposed we have these very real echoes to that conflict. Mars and Pluto were exactly squaring each other. And then fast forward a few months. So they were forward a few months, the election where president who ran in LBJ's stead. It was a these players who can like, I just find that the political parallels we have. We have Israel family: RFK, the same father-son duo [Chani: Yep. yeah. So we also had eclipses and the nodes with the North Node amplifying war and combat had a war that, yeah] the military industrial heavily doesn't wanna be in, but we're like peace and accord and harmony, and all in my opinion, quite stunning parallels with Chani Nicholas: ends up getting impeached. And we could say that and Reagan, and da-da-da, and now we're at Eliza Robertson: resigned before that could happen [Chani: Sorry, any case, he left [Chani; In in scandal, yeah], in scandal Thea Anderson: I was like, oh yeah, that was what happened. It Sr. was assassinated because of his support like first of all, we're still in all Chani Nicholas: colonialism. Mooring. And all the things. And then in 2023 [Eliza: It was, yeah]. And it was the the October 7th events have the Mars-Pluto, that [Eliza: the elections in both cases] has the Thea Anderson: between Pisces -- it was about to go into Aries, Eliza Robertson: well entrenched in Aries, but in, I think it the 6-Days War. I think maybe it was more the chart. And Saturn is moving into Aries we're going to be approaching the Saturn Eliza Robertson: gender wars? Or do we leave that for another time? Chani Nicholas: some gender wars. I will say, I don't I think I've said this in other episodes, I have in these last couple years. I don't Mars retrograde around the 2016 elections, something, it was in there, I think I was like, And of course, Mars, if we want to gender things, lot of things. One of them can be men. Doesn't weird way to look at stuff. But it's definitely more comfortable saying it represents people are like stealth or warrior-like. Or that, you masculinity, I would say. Maybe a Mars retrograde poison to try to heal the wound' kind of thing course, is like women, femmes, queer folks, sex, So we're having a Mars beginning of 2025. And just as Mars stations within a week, stations retrograde. So they're in the signs of their -- Mars is in its fall. so they're both deeply compromised in those So we know that things about gender I would say like intimate partner violence, those themes are very applicable to signatures like one of the things in Project 2025 is that Do they?] Being able, it's a specific Thea Anderson: what do you call it? No fault. So no fault it's probably not that long ago, like in the something. There had to be like a reason, but then amicable. And so they want to, that basically Chani Nicholas: can't get a divorce. So that's like the worst the world at large, and also like a dovetailing Eliza Robertson: I think it's worth just pointing out that -- so I 2016 election talking about the numbers of people where it seemed like the woman wanted or, yeah, the woman wanted to vote Democrat and then the going to let her make her own decision. And this Nation where she was, she was rightly pointing your vote is not actually secret anymore. And believe it was women rather than just spouses, but of people said that they voted in another way than with their spouse or with their partner. And so one of the many like multi-pronged ways that But I think too, in terms of like, so especially if we enter a time where it's you're with. But also I think when it it wouldn't shock me if this came into play like for their own physical safety or to vote the way they wanted to. So I just want Chani Nicholas: the Venus retrograde because the last time we had through these signs was, yes, in 2017, yes but it was also a major groundswell of activism, involved in politics. And it wasn't perfect, and started there. But, and, also, we have a lot of lot that has been built since that time. There is here. We were just here eight years ago. We know So we know we have to be way more nimble, way more other, way more strategic, and way more in this something you do for a year. This is not something there'll be another election. This is what you become involved in being a citizen of whatever you a member of your family, a member of your your state, your country, however you want to become a member of something, and you become and that is how you fight fascism. And that And I do think that this Venus retrograde is powerful. And even like, I don't know. It's which is always a little unnerving. But because and go back into Pisces, I do think that there's do think that there is a really good, a good of being like the anti Good Girl, like the The like raging Goddess that will have like And it's hard in these moments before you and we've said in our newsletter this week, defeated in advance. Do not let them enter the end. I know we've gone through some pretty astrologically speaking, but we cannot Thea Anderson: that's everything. I mean, especially like as a get the right to vote till what, 1965, like them get into your psyche feels like the thing And I like what you're saying about the Venus that it's difficult for Venus, it feels like I can see how Venus would be a force, right? And like it's significations -- it that does union then it's like, "Okay, but fuck. Like, in order to that we're all safe, and I'm have to fight, and like the femme fatale, the sort of like I think going from Aries retrograding very interesting astrologically. So like the then to being exalted, back into detriment, for women, femmes, queer folk who are, some to in that exalted place. Like, lead us. doesn't have a platform I think is also out in some way, shape, or form. Yeah, I'm Chani Nicholas: that in terms of the term -- you know, we not the sign that it's supposed to be in, but station retrograde and retrograde for a month, it does really like evoke those Lilithian kind of so I have nothing to lose." Like, it kind of like Because if Venus doesn't have to spend its time then what actually, what creativity is it actually direct that? And I think that will be one of the is much more complex than just that, but that And Venus retrograde goes into its pre-retrograde, after the inauguration. So it just is it's got its own theme, because Saturn will that time. And there will be other kind of over the course of the whole opening of the during this Venus retrograde? And where will all Okay, so we've got a new little chapter which is called "Ask Me Anything." And there was Eliza Robertson: exactly as a question, but basically what critical slash anaretic degree, so the final Chani Nicholas: it mean when a planet's at the end of a sign, Eliza Robertson: both were during that fateful Chani Nicholas: tired. They're exhausted. That they have no gas if you look at the bounds, which is a way of they're all ruled by a planet. It's either ruled or bad because it's ruled by one of the malefics. you're at the end of something [Eliza: Spiky]. tired and it's hard. There's like a roughness would you say to people that have like the Sun Eliza Robertson: wouldn't say that], maybe this is a little modern, at customs. So you've gotten to the airport and You're really close to just being able to walk out still have to get through customs. You still have you back. So it feels very liminal to me [Chani: Chani Nicholas: Eliza Robertson: I didn't say the word cusp Chani Nicholas: Thea Anderson: Chani Nicholas: sun is at 29 degrees of a sign? Am I just stuck Eliza Robertson: can be a sense of being like, "My business in this but I'm not quite out yet." You're still in at the end of Scorpio, and you have a sun at 29 be a surprise to you if you've never looked at But I do think there's a little bit of because the final segments of each sign it's like the person who is tasked with doing with getting the job done is a malefic. It's please to get the job done. There might be some that mean that the person is shadowy? No, but a little more challenging for that planet Chani Nicholas: Sun or Moon at the last degrees of a sign is like, they're always trying to finish something up and through customs? Or you're just like, you're kind a culmination of wisdom and like, I've done this like a end of the lunar cycle kind of vibe where I'm not impatient anymore because I know the time Eliza Robertson: phases of your life. Like, I think it might make little more restless when you're younger. And then that can be alchemized into appreciating you know, all that's come with you, all of your Chani Nicholas: like has road rage in traffic, or someone who's like, when I see those people, I'm like, oh, I would like to be you one day, because I'm more it's like, maybe you can get, maybe it's the kind place of like, acceptance and being like, "Well, supposed to be." I'm gonna have to look at Thea Anderson: the other day [Chani: Oh, tell us] that was baby! Like, what is that? Like, I really entered all the words. But also just kind of that like that kind of thing where maybe it's firmly that sign. There's no, to me, no cusp I like the customs. I like an airport analogy. something else, but it's not there. It's just In [inaudible], the only thing I wanted if the ascendant is in those final degrees, it's called it. There's nothing you could do. So I just accept, if fate has already kind of you could put your will force in to kind Chani Nicholas: South Node or Balsamic Moony to me. It feels with what this is," and just be in it. Hope more examples and if I have some. Because I oh, this planet's at the last degree, and Oh, I just also wanted to say that every these like big headlines about like, aliens are and they like hang out with them, and they have degrees of Capricorn. So it's like finishing up edge of Capricorn about to go into Aquarius, aliens because it's the outsider and it's the one literally. And so I just thought it was at that last degree. Like we're almost at the end this phase of reality. And, ooh, yes, here's some are in the water, you're just like [snorting Eliza Robertson: gonna get weird]. Think of all the aliens Chani Nicholas: y'all, with Pluto in Aquarius. Like, two of Jupiter-Saturn air cycle. It's gonna get weird. do a 2025 edition of Down to Astro that will you through the entire year. We'll have enough All right, thank you both so much [Eliza: come back, see us next time. Bye for now. Eliza Robertson: Thea Anderson: