Ly Tieu Ca's family would like to say hello to everyone, wishing everyone a peaceful new day. Be careful of falling, baby .. just play, I'll sweep the floor. Yes, okay , please stay away. Dad's home. I 'm home. ah oh me.. what are you doing? Come on, Ben, are you tired? I'm not tired Oh, what are you talking about... have you finished turning yet? Well, I've taken it all, this is the last trip , can you take it off? Is it possible yet? Almost there... admitting that having a motorbike is really convenient and less difficult, we are lucky because we have enough money to buy a motorbike, right? That's right, it's great , when will they come to harvest oranges? I don't know if that one is about to ripen, but in a few days it will be ripe. If he doesn't come early to harvest, there's a chance the oranges will ripen and be used that day. We'll pick them for hire, right? Be good, girl, don't be naughty and play with the duckling. Okay, let me take it to you to wash it again. Did I just buy the baby and wash the motorbike with my dad? Hey . Yes, my bottle of dishwashing oil is empty.. I'll buy more when I go down the mountain. How about washing with detergent? Come on, baby B. The flowers are already wilted. Oh , baby , let me sweep it up for you. What are you doing? Ah , let 's feed the ducks . That's right, Han, you're so good. Hey, sit still and let me go get the price. Let's see if the bean sprouts have sprouted . Hey... the bean sprouts have sprouted. Well, here you go, I've got a plant. Wow, it's growing evenly, that's great. I 'll let you know someday. I can stir-fry a meal for my child to eat. I think I can stir-fry a meal for my child to eat. Oh, it's so uniform, I love this corner, oh, this place, this place. Is it too thick or something? Hey, if it's a little too thick, should I bring it to the market to sell it? I also think so. It's so beautiful. This is delicious. I thought I would make this. It's good, but it's even more delicious. It's so delicious. This is my first time making bean sprouts. Luckily, they still come out and are beautiful. They look so delicious . Are you afraid of ducks? Duck shit You can go to work and pick it up yourself, I can do it by myself, okay? Go to work, give it to me. Yes , it's too thick . Okay, okay, please TH , let Han eat... grandma. Bye stay with grandma, mom and dad, let's go to work.. HAn stay home with grandma, okay? Hey, dad, fruit. Today the buyer of my orange garden came to harvest. I'm just selling fruit, not selling. The whole garden, my husband and I will harvest this tree with them, okay ? Hey, I don't know if he's coming up or not, but I haven't seen him this morning. I bought this orange crop and now they're probably going to harvest it all. There's only one small pair of scissors. If not, I'll cut it for you. You can cut it too . Hey bro... this bunch is too much Bro, this boss is so beautiful, honey , hey, this boss is beautiful Okay, pick it up, I'm full and then you can carry it... just leave it there, I'll just carry it lightly. . That's too much for me... I can carry it, but it 's very heavy here, I'm close to tomorrow, I 'm going to clamp down on that piece of meat, so I can eat it. It'll be a long time before I get to eat the last fruit. I don't know about this year. He said he will definitely come up by this day but in 3 to 5 days he will probably come up soon but he's reputable. I'll add this fruit and it'll be sweeter. It's so sweet that it's a bit telling. It's bitter like this, I'm taking good care of you , I have to listen to my dad, not listen to people talking about getting high and about to hit the floor, don't you? Do you remember the password? You two don't have to harvest anymore. Come on down, I'll pay, pay you. My son bought that orange garden and went to this side of the road so he could comfortably watch the machine. Next to me, some bamboos, some bamboo plants, some bamboo plants , watering the shrimps. Take the whole bamboo plant and take it home to drink. Hey, do you want some water? Before that, my brother paid 6 million, right? Yes, that's right, he's a bit busy today so I have to go change him 10 million VND 10 million I counted enough, you two counted again and again . Today he came up early but couldn't come up. I had to go up instead because he was busy with work. Uncle Bao, why didn't he wait until the oranges were all ripe and golden ? That's enough, uncle. Thank you very much, we both give mom a little, she won't take it... she takes it and sometimes buys this Han medicine... okay, mom will take me to the market to buy some food so I can cook lunch right? Mom... Han is here with you. Let's go down the mountain. Buy some. Yes.. let's go. Han will stay with you. Han will stay with you. Han will stay with you . Bye bye, baby. Bye bye, bye, mom. I'm selling this product for 79,000 VND to get clean melon. I just got it and do you have herbs? I bought some fruit for Han, right? When I come home from work, I'll die. Hubei's drama about the corn baby is so terrible. How much is it? 86 two stars . Look, I'm not 28, right? 28, I think it's 30, 40,000 VND. B, hey, 80, 120,000 VND . Here it is. cc cc toad cc cc cc toad cc toad Who sent it? Even though it's a loss, it's a loss. Oh my, three batches have arrived, three batches have arrived. Hey, the fish is crying, the baby is crying. I dream of having this melon, oh, oh, oh my, I'm so big , I'm so excited, I'm going to drive so hard, I'm telling you, here, here, here, here, here, save this Oh my God, she doesn't know how to feed her Eat the sharp part first, chop the other go chop it like that Hey, let's eat this pawn, it's okay, take it, eat it, look at the bait that eats the hearts of the hens, don't believe it, describe the fish like that, always sit there. Let's cook rice, my child. Hang's three-stick rice cooker is too big. Hang can't eat anything. It 's delicious. Everything is too big. But the rice is this small. I'll go change it. I'll probably sleep. It's so hot. It's delicious. It 's so beautiful Oh, my dear Ngan , if you say hello then it's okay. North and mother, please let me be the CH and put it in this place , An, it'll be boring to eat like this. It'll get boring later. This dish is so delicious, the second one is so delicious , I need a little more water, no need. When it's dry, it's cooked. In here, in here, in here, let it come out. Mom, eat rice, eat rice, baby, eat rice. Mom, please eat rice. Here Yes, here's H's bag. Yes, here, bring the bottle for me to drink. Dad, give me hot water to drink. Drink some water. The blood is not yet ready to bleed. What's this? Mommy's rice. Oh, I love it. C This is delicious. This is mine.) This is so delicious , ha ha. This rice is very delicious. Mom, it's delicious. If you stir-fry the meat in a lot of water, I'll add water and stir-fry until it's even more delicious. Tho's a bit hot. I don't know any other land in the village. They're about to sell C, so I'm planning on telling you that if V and I move in tomorrow, we'll move there and move in. Mom will tell us not to do anything when we're there .