(sirens wail) - Yo. Where you been, man? I've been looking for you. - Excuse me, we're talking right now. - Man, get your girl outta my face. - Look, you overstepping your boundaries, dog? - What, you're choosing a female over me now, bro? - What's up with you, dog? - Yo, man, we got company. Yo, he wants me to smoke you, dog. (dramatic music) - Paris, Paris, you need to go to the church. - Jaylen, what is going on? - You Need to go right now. - I don't wanna go. - Go, run. (dramatic music) - Go, Go man, go. (dramatic music continues) Go man, go. Go, go, go. (dramatic music continues) Come on. Come on. - Dig, this way. This way, Dig. (dramatic continues) What you doing, man? (indistinct chatter) - Daddy, daddy. Jaylen's in trouble, we have to go. (indistinct) - Yo, yo, Jaylen's in trouble. We gotta go. - [Paris] Hurry. (gentle music) - You serious right now? (gentle music continues) You crazy? - I'm sorry Jay. - What's taking so long? All you gotta do is cock it back and pull the trigger. - Mr. Aaron, I don't know what's going on, but Jaylen and Diggy are in trouble. These guys... Where are they? Where are they? - They said they were gonna kill Jaylen. I don't know, they're outside. - Just go, go. I'll call the police. (phone ringing) - [Operator] 911 Emergency Operator 929. (gentle music) - Look at him. - That's my boy, man. - Your boy? Your boy? - Man, Jay didn't do it. - He didn't do it? Who did it then, D? (gentle music) - God. I don't know where he is. (car horn honks) (car horn honks) (gentle music) - I'm waiting on you. (gentle music continues) So you are ready to die, huh? - Jaylen. What's going on? - He's gonna kill my moms and my little bro, man, if I don't do this. - Look, I've hurt a lot of people, and I was wrong for it. Put the gun down. Don't ruin the rest of your life. Please, please, please. Look, I don't even know what's going on, but whatever it is we can fix it. If they owe you money, I can pay it. Just don't hurt my son. - He doesn't want the money, man. - You got the money? - I can find the money. - Y'all hear this, man? He can find the money. (laughs) We should have been chasing him all day then, right? This man... Hey look, yeah, this is for my niece. - Pops no. (gun fires) (buzzer buzzes) (gentle music) - Hey baby. - Mama. How are you? - I'm keeping it together. How are you? - They won't look into my case. I did not do those things that they say I did. I didn't. - That may be, but I believe that God is gonna work this thing out. - You can save that for somebody else. - You have to repent for the things you've done. And you've got to turn your life over to him. - I am sorry for all the things I've put you through, I am. I should be out there. - See, out there was a distraction, keeping you from your purpose, from being a father to your son. If you ask anything when you pray it will be done if you have faith. (buzzer buzzes) - [Guard] All right (indistinct) time's up. All inmates gotta go. - Ma, I gotta go. (gentle music) - All inmates let's go. - I love you. I gotta go. (gentle music continues) - [Diggy] I've made some bad decisions in my life. (sirens wail) My name is Demetrius, all my friends call me Diggy. If you were to ask me yesterday when will I die? - This for my niece. (gun fires) - [Diggy] I woulda said I'm gonna live forever and a day. (radio chatter) So much to do, so many places to see. Go. (sirens wail) (gentle music) - Diggy. Come on man. - I never got to tell my brother don't follow in my footsteps. (gentle music continues) Sorry I couldn't save you Mama. I never even made love before, man. (gentle music continues) Out of everything I wanted to do in my life, I never heard my father speak. (gentle music continues) Hey yo. - Chillin' man. All right, yo, hey, good looking. (bees buzz) - [Diggy] She dropped it off last night. - That's crazy. Hey, you allergic to bees, man? - Yeah, man, you know that. - 9:00 bees. 9:00 bees. - What, man, bees? - They right there. Dude, watch out. Dude watch out. - You stupid, man. - Everything we deal with on the street, you still afraid of bees, man? - Bees could kill you, man. My face swelled up. Why you laughing, man? - Since seven years old, never failed. - Calvin's home, man, I'm leaving. - We good? - Good seeing you fam. - All right bro. - Don't go to Britney's house, man. - Ima go by Jessica. - Calvin. Cal? You home man? Mom? Ma? (Mom groans) Mom, where's Calvin? - [Mom] I don't know, sweetie, probably at practice or something. - He didn't call or nothing? - [Mom] No. - Mom, I told you you gotta watch him when I'm not here. (bag rustles) - Did you get some more stuff? Dig, did you get some more stuff? Boy, you know you hear me talking to you. - Yeah, Mom. Got you a little something. Here mom. - You always know how to take good care of your mama, don't you? (phone buzzes) (gentle music) - [Jaylen] Hey Granny. - Oh, Jaylen my handsome. Oh hey. Ooh, what you doing out here? - Oh, I just left from with Diggy. - Yeah, I saw that. (gentle music continues) Now I've told you before, just like I told your father, everything has a seed, and if you plant trouble trouble's what you gonna get back. - I know, I just- - Jay, Jaylen, do you wanna end up like your father? You have to do right. Baby, you are one thought for the good or for the bad. - That's why I love you. - Oh boy. - You always staying on top of me, and you always preaching to me. - I love you. - I love you too. - Now baby if you do right then I won't be doing all this preaching. You mean everything to me. Well listen, baby, I gotta go on over to the church. - Want me to walk with you? - No, I'm all right. You be good. I'm watching you. - All right. (gentle music) (phone ringing) - Yes? - [Automated Voice] I have a collect call from- - [Aaron] Aaron Davis. - [Automated Voice] An inmate at San Bernardino County Detention Center. If you would like to accept this call... Yes. - [Automated Voice] If you would like- - Yes, yes, yes. Yes. Yes, Yes. - [Automated Voice] If you - Yes, I'll accept. - [Automated Voice] This call will be recorded and monitored. - What do you want Aaron? - Can't I just be calling to see how y'all doing? - Whenever you call it's because you want something, Aaron. - I mean I'm trying. How can I- - Just stop. - Come on, Shay, you know I- - [Shay] Why are you calling me? - [Aaron] What do you want me to do? - You don't have to do anything for me, but I'm telling you, you've gotta get your son off the streets before he's before he's dead or locked up. - But I'm in jail, I can't do anything in here. - Aaron. These streets are getting worse by the day, and he doesn't know that I know, but, Aaron, he's selling drugs, just like his father used to. - If I can get out I can change things, I promise. But nobody's listening. If I get out, will I have a place to come to? - No. No, no, no. He might need you but I don't. (buzzer buzzes) - Tell my man I said what's up then. - Hey mom, you okay? - Yeah. How long have you been standing there? - Long enough. It's okay to cry, all right? Yo Mama, come into my office. Come on, come talk to me. (phone buzzes) (phone buzzes) (phone dings) (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) - What's going on man? - What's up? I missed you in and out these past few days. - I was just playing ball. - You better be boy. Hey, go check your room, I got you something. - Nuh-uh. You got my uniform. - You know it, man. - Thanks, Diggy. - Of course, man. Hey, go do your homework now, man. - I will. - Hey and stop staying out so late. - I will. - Go. (gentle music) - I know you see Jaylen, and I need you to intervene. (dramatic music) Do whatever you have to do to get him off those streets (indistinct). I trust in you, Lord. And, devil, I serve you notice. Let him loose. (gentle music continues) - I love you, okay? I got you. You know, grandma, I saw her on the way in. Yeah, she's trying to get me to read the Bible and stuff. - Jaylen, you're her only grandchild, what do you expect? - I swear that lady's a detective. Can I ask you a question? How come you never say you love me? - Jaylen, Jaylen, you, you know I love you even though I might not always say it, so stop that. - Stop what? - Stop, stop, stop with all the mushy stuff. (gentle music) - [Reporter] Federal judge in California has denied- - [Reporter] Aaron Davis' appeal for his double homicide conviction in November- - [Reporter] 20025. - [Reporter] The gang leader- - [Reporter] The gang leader formerly known as- - A-train. - A-train. Continues to maintain his innocence- - Despite what prosecutors say is insurmountable evidence against him. - [Reporter] David was arrested just minutes- - [Reporter] After the murders. - [Reporter] Davis was arrested, and was later given a life sentence. - [Reporter] Frequent violence in the prison has kept Davis in constant isolation. - [Reporter] For weeks or even months at a time. - Hey, yo, Davis, the woman ain't waiting on you, bro. - Always get upset, but so do I because it always feels like I have to keep telling you the same thing- - I know. - Over and over. All you wanna do is run the street, and chase girls, that's what you do. It's not what life's about. You think I wanna spend my time lecturing you? I don't. But I'm trying to tell you what's right. Here, just... It'll only take a minute just to get in there. - I'll be right over there, okay? - All right, okay, okay. - All right. (phone pops) (quiet singing) (Paris vocalizes) - Paris, come on, you got this. Just (indistinct). (guitar music) God is love God is love I can feel him all around us - Breathe, breathe, breathe, just relax. - I can play it for you. - Were you listening this whole time? - May I? - Sure. - I'm not really a singer, but I can do what I do. Let me see. See if I got it. All right, so you repeat that first line. You were saying God is love right? - Mm-hmm. - Just repeat it, I'm gonna speed it up a little. - Okay. God is love God is love God is love God is love I can feel him all around us - Wow. You got some talent. - Thank you. - You a beast. You wrote a verse for the chorus yet? - I have, yeah. - Well it's gonna be a beautiful song. - Thank you. - You know, I'm not really into the whole gospel thing, but I appreciate it when I hear it. I'm Jaylen by the way. - Paris. Nice to meet you. - Nice to meet you. - And gospel is the best music in the world. - You clearly don't listen to rap. - Yeah, not really. Are you a rapper? You don't sound like a rapper. - Actually I am not. (Paris laughs) I just like listening to it. - That's cool. I'm here almost everyday, and I've never seen you here before. - My grandma works here. My mom car won't start up so we have to use hers. That's why I'm here. Little bit too much information. - It's all good. - It look like I may have a good reason to come back a little bit more often. (Paris laughs) - Who's your grandma? - Camilla Davis. - Oh, that's my music teacher. - No way. - Yeah. She's the best. - She's amazing, right? - Yeah. (laughs) Uh, can I have my guitar back please? - Sorry. - Thank you. My dad's a counselor here too, so whenever he's teaching a class I go to her after school music program, or hang here til my dad's done. - Why don't you just go home? - My mom died when I was 12, so there's no one to really go home to. - I'm sorry to hear that. Are you okay? - I'm fine. I don't know why people always get so weirded out and feel sorry for me when I tell them my mom died. - Well maybe because they should. That's moms. I couldn't imagine. Moms are everything, you know? - Yeah, she was pretty awesome. I miss her. But, you know, dads are important too. - I wouldn't really know. I don't know my father. - Uh, you know what, I'm gonna have to run. - Sorry about that. - I'll see you guys tomorrow at three, right? - Yeah. - Okay, bye, bye. - Thanks Mr. Monty. - Speaking of fathers... Hi dad. - Who's this? - Hi Daddy, how are you? - Hey, listen I'm sorry, baby, the meeting ran over. - Daddy, you say that everyday. - How was school? - It was good. Same old, same old. Aced that math test though. - What's up? (laughs) - Oh, I'm so sorry, how rude of me. Daddy, this is my friend. - How you doing, I'm Jaylen, man. - Yeah, you can call me Mr. Monty. (gentle music) Looks like you have a bit of a wardrobe malfunction there son with your pants. - [Jaylen] No, I'm good. - No, no, no, in the back. This. - Hey man. - It's exposure. - Chill. - Take your hands off my son. Come on, Jaylen, let's go. Come on, let's go. - What did I tell you about hanging out with those knuckleheads? - Seriously daddy? - What's up, Diggy? - Tom. - I been calling your phone all day. - My bad, man, my ringer was off. You know how it is, I was at school, we can't have them on. - Why you got the phone at school then? - Safety man. - Look man, where is my money? - I don't have it T. - Where's Tara at? Keeping her nice? - My moms ain't got nothing to do with this. - What you say? - I got it though. I got it, bro, just not on me. T, tomorrow, man. I promise man, I'll get it for you. - Come here, Diggy. Come here, man. Look, I like you all right? I really do. Now if you don't have that money by tomorrow... Understand? - Yeah man. - I'll see you tomorrow, all right? Let's roll Dre. Make sure you answer your phone. (engine revs) - Dear Lord, help him. Bring him out. Free him from all captivity, mental and spiritual and physical. I pray in faith that you will uncover every hidden thing that the enemy is trying to cover. - Hey yo, Davis, you in here for life, man, don't forget that. - [Shaelyn] You failed miserably because he's now living just like you, without his father. What did you say? What did you tell me? I got you, baby, I got you. You got me stuck. - Jaylen, no. (dramatic music) - [Diggy] Go man, go. - You were raised in the church, you know what to do. - Man. - You embarrassed me, Dad. - What? Look, I just came out to see how you were doing. - I had been waiting for you all day, and all of a sudden when I start talking to Jaylen, oh now I have your attention? - No. Look, baby, you know I get busy sometimes. Listen, sweetie, you know you are my world. - My world. - I... And there's nothing without you. - What is wrong? Baby, what's going on, huh? Paris, are you missing your mom? I tell you what, I will start picking you up after school, all right? Now, I have to work on my schedule, and it might be a bit of a stretch, but I'll, I'll make it happen. - Nevermind, Dad. - Baby, what do you want? - I want my dad. - You have me. - For what? The one hour in the morning before school? The 30 minute car ride home? Your weekends are consumed with your stupid weekend conferences, and, and your book signings. Okay cool Saturday we eat at grandma's house, but by the time Sunday comes around you're too busy with football and basketball. And here comes Monday and I'm tired of sharing you with everybody. - You'll have me, baby. I promise all right? Just, just let daddy take care of a few things. - That's what you said last time, and the time before that. (phone ringing) Hey daddy. - [Mr. Monty] Listen, now is not a good time. (buzzer buzzes) - [Guard] Lets go. - Daddy's getting ready to start a session. - [Paris] Again? - Yes, I know, sweetheart. - [Paris] Seriously? - I know, I know. - [Paris] Okay, I'm just gonna go. - What? - [Paris] I'll find a ride. - Hey, hey, I'm right in the middle- - [Paris] Whatever. - Hello? Hello? She hung up on me. First of all I'd like to thank you all for agreeing to be part of this program for inmates. I commend you for taking that first step to being better fathers. Now I'm gonna give you the information to be better fathers to your kids. Now I speak to the warden, and he gave me clearance for your children and/or your children's mothers to be part of the program. - I already know my baby mama ain't coming, she's the reason I'm in here. - Can we throw in some conjugal visits? (inmates laugh) - When you leave this class, you're gonna be happy that you came. And overall better men. This class is offered in order for you to get honest with yourselves. - And how about you? Can you take an honest look at yourself? (dramatic music) - And you must be Aaron Davis, right? - Yeah, that's my name. But you still didn't answer the question though. Can you be real? - Well you see, Aaron, this isn't about me. You see I'm not the one sitting in your seat. - Yeah but you wanna know our stories. - Each and every one of you should look at your neighbor and speak the truth. For we are members one of another. - What that dude say? - Thank you, thank you, brother. - What's up with you, bro? - Whoa, whoa, whoa. Let's bring it in. Bring it in fellas. - Name is Randy. I speak what's given to me. - All right- - So you know a few scriptures, so what. Ain't nothing special about you. - Oh, so, uh, you know scriptures? - You answer my questions and I'll answer yours. - All right, Aaron, I can do that. I can be honest. - Guess class can start, huh guys? - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Well thank you, Aaron. Let's try this again. My name is Monty, and I'm from Chicago. - Chi town, yeah. (laughs) - Hey, hey. Put your hand down fool, before I break something. - Nuh-uh, nuh-uh, not here. Now that'll be the first and last warning, gentlemen. Okay, so, um, I moved here in 1992 to teach at the university. I taught psychology for 10 years, and I still do it from time to time. - Dang man. When do you find time for your own daughter? (inmates laugh) - Well, that's, uh, that's really none of your business. For your information, I have plenty of time for my daughter. - So when the last time you took your little princess for ice cream? Bet you never considered the fact that I might be innocent, huh? - That punk Craig did it, running around like he innocent. And the police know too. They know. - They ain't gonna do nothing about it. - And neither will he, sitting behind his little podium, judging us, trying to show us how to be fathers. Ain't no difference between me and you, partner. People always come here and lie to us. We're tired of being lied to. We gonna walk out of here until you can start being honest with us. - Tell the truth. - I haven't been a very good father to my daughter. I don't, uh, spend time with her like I should, and I know that's what she wants, but I can't give it to her. I can see the hurt in her eyes, yet I choose to ignore it. You see when I look at my daughter she reminds me of my late wife Erica, and how much I miss her. She died when my daughter was 12. The older she gets the more she looks like her mother. Her, her, her smile, her laugh, her eyes. She is a constant reminder that my Erica is gone forever. (gentle music) The truth is I haven't gotten over the death of my wife. (gentle music continues) Well there it is. (Aaron claps) (inmates applaud) Thank you. Thank you guys. (Paris indistinctly talking) - What you doing out here? - Oh, hey. I'm just taking some time to myself. This is my favorite place to come relax and read. - It's getting dark, you should probably be getting back to the church. Let me walk you. - Um, on one condition. - What's that? - Come sit and talk to me for a bit. - I can't resist that, so I'm gonna sit right there. (Paris laughs) - So, how was your day? - No one ever really asked me that. It feels nice. - Really? - Yeah. - Well, I promise to ask you how your day goes every time I see you. - Really? Does that mean you're gonna be seeing me a lot? - It depends. - Depends on what? - If we can meet here sometimes after school. I'll tell you about my day, and you tell me about yours. - I like that. I'm cool with that. You're different from the other chicks I be messing with. - Excuse me? - No, that, that came- - Chicks lay eggs, Jaylen. You couldn't find a different That's how you see me, a chick? And who says that we're messing with each other? - I didn't mean to say it like that. - Is that all you want? (Jaylen stutters) (Paris stutters) (Paris laughs) Got you. - Oh, man. I had a mini heart attack right there. - I can tell. - My goodness. You funny. I like you though. Rivers run deep with you. Come on, you should be getting back to the church. - Just so you know, you're not alone. I feel some type of way about my father not being there for me either. - Really? But your father's in your life. - My dad lives with me, he provides for me, but he isn't there for me. There's a difference. - Wow. You know, I always took your father to be the type to take you on long walks on the beach, daddy/daughter dates, mani/pedis together. - No, I wish. I couldn't tell you the last time we've done anything like that. - You ever try to just talk to him? - No. You know, I would feel guilty taking him away from people who need him. - At least you got access to your pops. I never had that privilege. You know my moms tried to hook me up with some of my uncles and some of her close guy friends. That never really worked out. - Why not? (gentle music) - So, my moms, none of her attempts ever really worked out. Most of the dudes were just trying to hook up with her anyways, except this one. His motivation was all wrong. - What happened? (gentle music continues) If you don't wanna talk about it, Jaylen, you don't have to. - No, it's cool. So, um, this one cat said he was gonna take me hiking, told my moms he'll be like my big bro. (gentle music continues) Took me to this lake in the middle of nowhere. - Jaylen. It's okay, you can talk to me. You're safe with me. (gentle music continues) - So he'd take me to this lake in the middle of nowhere, starts taking off his clothes, and he told me to get in. I had bad vibes, but he assured me that everything was fine, you know? Back then I couldn't swim, he said he'll teach me how to swim. So I'm like &quot;Cool, you're like my big bro.&quot; As soon as I get in the water he's all up on me. It didn't feel right so I got out ASAP, put all my clothes on soaking wet. Then he starts screaming at me &quot;Get back in the lake or I'm gonna leave you here.&quot; I didn't know what to do, so I just ran into the woods. And I just walked and walked and walked til it was dark. Back then I watched a lot of scary movies. You know what happen to people like us in the woods. I was scared. But luckily it was like a miracle. I had these girls camping out, took me home. - Wow, Jaylen, I'm so sorry you had to go through that. You had to be really brave. How old were you? - I was eight years old. You know, I can't help but think if my father was in my life that things would be different, you know? (gentle music) I never told anybody that story. You the first and the last, all right? (Paris laughs) - I hope you know you're safe with me. - I know, Paris. (gentle music) - You know how they say God has a plan for all of us? (gentle music continues) Something's telling me God has a plan for you and me. He's bringing us together to and to forgive them. - You really think so? - Yeah. My guitar, my guitar. Shoot. (singer vocalizing) - Child, what are you still doing here? - I'm sorry, I'm still waiting for my dad. - Hey Paris. - Hey girl. - Wandering around at night isn't safe, you know? - I know, but I wasn't by myself. - Oh? Well who were you with? And does Mr. Monty know him? - Yes, he's actually already met him. - But does he know that you're with him though? - It's not like that, Miss Davis. He's actually you're grandson. - Who? - Jaylen. - Oh Lord, Jesus. I gotta pray about this. - What, Miss Davis? You guys. - You didn't tell us. - You didn't tell us you had a new boyfriend. - Help me out, please. - And what is she supposed to help you out with? - I don't know anything, Miss Davis, nothing. - Sorry Miss Davis, I didn't know either. - You guys are the worst. I just came for my guitar, geez. - Mm-hmm. (indistinct) let's go over this song again, we've got about 10 minutes. And, Paris, why don't you practice with us. - Okay. - Okay, here we go. Amazing grace How sweet the sound That saved a retch like me - A child and an elderly woman were shot dead, now if you wanna see someone pay for this, are you certain that he's innocent? - Yes. Yeah, I'm sure. I mean this man may be a lot of things, but I'm telling you he's not a liar. You should see the way these men look up to him. - He's a gang leader, Monty. I looked in his file. - What if that same power, that safe leadership quality can be used for something good? I think it's worth a shot. - You better be right about this Monty. - Hey. - What is this about? Who is he? - Manuel Jackson. Well I'm a defense attorney, and a good friend of Monty's. He gave me your file. I must admit I see some major discrepancies that went over looked. - I'm listening. Go ahead. - What he's saying is he's gonna look into your case, present new evidence, and maybe get the charges dropped. - Aaron, I am not 100% certain I can get you out of here, but I do believe there's a good chance that I can. - Don't play with me. - I just need to ask you one question. Did you rob that convenience store, and kill that little girl and that cashier? - I did not rob the store or kill any of those people. (dramatic music) - So you're 100% innocent? - I am 100% innocent, sir. (dramatic music continues) - I do not like to be made a fool of in court. I got a reputation to uphold. So if I find our you're lying to me... You think this is hell, I will turn up the heat. Understood? (dramatic music) - Understood, sir. - Well then. Sir, you've got yourself a defense attorney. - I don't have any money to pay for this. - Brother, I did not ask you for any money. - Thank you. Thank you both. (gentle music) (gentle music continues) (gentle music continues) - Game point. (basketball bounces) (indistinct) baby. Let's go. Good game. - Yo, yo Jay. - What's good? What's up with you? - What happened to you last night, bro? - Oh man. Aaron called the crib, told my moms he may be getting out. She's been thinking. - Thinking? Thinking what man? - Bro, why are you always so extra when I bring up Aaron name? - Ah, 'cause he a liar bro. They all the same, man. Talking about they gonna do better when they get out. I remember when my sperm donor got out. Yo, I've never even heard my father speak. - It's a cold world man. Let's hoop, man. - Hey. Sorry I'm late. - Thanks for meeting me. I think this is the piece of evidence we need. - Well I'm not understanding. The police already matched - They matched the same tread, yes, but not the size. Whoever was there that night, look closer, they wore a size nine. Aaron wears a size 11. Look at this. - Who is Craig Matheson? - Craig Matheson was picked up four days after Aaron for burglary. A fun fact, they were both But guess what size he wears. (Monty laughs) I think you were right about Aaron, brother. Let's go get him out of there. - Waited at that bus station for four hours, man. Punk never showed up. I just wanted to see my pops. I still don't know where that cat is. Yo man, can I get that? - Maybe it's our ball. - Who are these cats, man? - I don't know, some old head, man. (dramatic music) - I heard a little bit of the conversation you was having with your man. - Oh, is that right? - I was just like you, man. - Man, you don't know me. - Mad at my pops for leaving my moms. Hated that dude. Hated him. Until one day this dude on he calls me. It took everything in me, man, not to just let him die and rot in hell. (gentle music) I had questions. Long story short, you know what he told me? He said he didn't know how to be something that he never had for himself. (gentle music) That mindset, man, that mindset. So I made a decision right then and there, I said I was gonna release that generational curse. (gentle music) I'm a dad, man. Four kids, man. And it gives me every bit of joy to watch those little babies grow up right before my eyes, man. I don't know you, but you gonna have to forgive your pops yo, 'cause some day you're gonna be a father. It starts with you, yo. (gentle music continues) - [Diggy] People always trying to school somebody, man. - That was deep though. You need to start listening, man. - I ain't listening to that dude. Yo, I'm gonna end up just like my pops anyway, Dre. He sold drugs, now I sell drugs. - You're nothing like him, man. He's a big time drug dealer, all we do is sell a little weed. Right? - Yo. Moms ain't working right now, man. I had to make some extra cash. I got little Cal now. - Come on, Dig. We said we wasn't gonna get That's real time, man. - I know, man. - You gave me your word, dog. - Brother, look, it's only temporary, until I get moms back on her feet. A few more weeks, brother, I'm done. I promise you, Jay. - Today we have coverage on the highly publicized trial of Aaron Davis. It was just announced that all murder charges against Davis have been dropped. As of right now he is not a suspect. - [Reporter] Thanks, Cindy. Aaron Davis, the former gang leader indited for the murder of Sybil and Shauna Garfield has been exonerated after years of incarceration. A special appeal was filed by Manual Jackson within the state's attorney's office. And after key evidence was reexamined by the judge he immateriality placed a motion for Davis' release. The next question authorities are asking is &quot;How did this happen?&quot; And &quot;How much will Davis settle with the state&quot; &quot;for the wrongful conviction?&quot; - Baby. Welcome home. - Mama, I'm hungry. - (laughs) I cooked all your favorites, you know I did. Come on, baby. Oh sweetie. (gentle music) (Mom laughs) - The food was awesome. - And you know that there is plenty more where that comes from. Oh, I have been holding something for you. (gentle music) - What I'm supposed to do with this? - I'm sure you'll think of something. (gentle music continues) - You keep that. - Mm-hmm. - Thank you. - You're welcome. (laughs) (dramatic music) - Don't make me shoot you, boy. - Nah, man. - Let me guess you ain't got my money, do you? - I was on my way to get it, man. - You was going to get it? - [Diggy] Yeah. - Then why you running? - [Diggy] I'm not, man. - Don't lie to me. - I'm not lying, man. - Not lying, huh? - No. - Get on your knees, man. - What? - Get on your knees. Get on your knees. - You don't gotta do this, man. - Look, ima ask you one more time, boy. Where is my money? - All right, man, all right. Please, man. I don't got it. My mom stole it, man, she's sick. I didn't know what else to do, man. But T, I'll work it off, man. I need a little more time, man. A little more time. I'll work it off. Ima get it for you, bro. I promise, man. - What you gonna do, huh? - Anything. Anything you ask, man, I'll do. - Anything? So this what you gonna do. There's this dude that just got off for serving a few years for killing my niece. I want you to kill his son for us. - Who's that? - Aaron Davis. He got a son named Jaylen. - What, man? Jaylen? That's my best friend. I can't- - I don't care if that's your friend. You either kill him or you don't. 'Cause if you don't, that little dope head mama of his, that little brother of yours, they're gonna catch these bullets. Get my money and you better kill that boy. Let's go, Dre. I'm not playing with you, boy. (dramatic music) (knocking on door) - [Jaylen] I got it, Mom. (dramatic music) - Jaylen. You all grown up now. You're a man. How you and your moms doing? (gentle music) - We good. Everybody's good. - That's good to hear. - You wanna come in? - Is it okay? - Yeah, come on. (gentle music continues) You can sit. (gentle music continues) (both laugh) - Uh, Jaylen, I heard you go down to the community center a lot, and I don't know if you know this, but I work there now. - That's what's up. - It's not much, but at least I can work my way And hopefully see you every now and then. - Cool. You want something to drink? - No, I'm, I'm good. (gentle music continues) Listen, Jaylen, your mom told me you were out here playing in these streets. - Yeah, what she say? - Look, bro, you come from me, and I don't want you to make the same mistakes that I made, and I definitely made a lot of 'em. We're from the same hood so we have tendencies of wanting to make sure that we hold everybody done. - Nah, I been cut that off. (gentle music) - That's good. I'm proud of you, son. That's one less thing I have to worry about. - Mom, we good. - What are you doing in my house, Aaron? - Ma, it's okay. - No. Aaron, you have to leave my house, Aaron. (gentle music) - Look, I, I'm not here to stay. I really came here to let you guys know that I'm in a special program down at the community center, and I was hoping you and Jaylen could come by before I graduate. It's called The Better Father program. - Probably not. (gentle music) - I'll just leave it here. (gentle music continues) I'm not gonna give up. - Wait, wait. (gentle music continues) Why did you do that, Ma? - Jaylen, you're too young to understand what's going on. - You've been saying that same line my entire life. But he's still my father. - I can't handle this right now. - You can't handle what? Why did you kick him out, Mom? Answer me, Mom. Why did you do that? (dramatic music) - Who do you think you're talking to? Who do you think raised you? He's gonna walk through the door, and you're gonna turn on me now? (dramatic music continues) Jaylen. - Man, no problem at all. Yo, Mr. Davis, I was beginning to think we weren't gonna see you. - [Aaron] You lied to me. - What, what's going on? - Man, I did everything you told me to do, and it blew up in my face. - All right, wait, wait. Let's talk about it, all right? Everybody sit down. Sit down, please. - [Aaron] Man, I made myself available to my son. - Well that's good, Aaron. - But she did exactly what I thought she would do, try to act like I don't deserve to see my son. - [Mr. Monty] Wait a minute- - You don't. You gotta earn that, bro. You probably lied to her, probably lied to your boy. - What you know about earning fool? You don't know nothing about me, and you don't know nothing about my situation. - Come on. - As a matter of fact, you know who I am, huh? - Well I just got out, but I don't mind going back for you. - Well let's go. Let's go. Let's go. - Fellas, come on now. - You ain't got to hold me, bro. I'm here. - Sit down, please. - You lucky. - Have a seat. (gentle music) Aaron, what happened to change, man? Now you may not like what this brother had to say, but he's telling the truth. Now change my be the hardest thing you have to do in your life. Man, do you want a relationship with Jaylen or not? - I do, man. I really do. - No matter how many times you gotta go back, go back. Do whatever it takes to see your son. My problem is my son don't respect me because I'm trying to be honest, and do what's right. What do I do about that? - Well, all you do is be a father to your son. Teach him to own not to borrow. Teach him how to respect his woman. Now you stay on that course, and you gonna get that respect again. And leave the rest to God. - I could feel that. - I'm sorry about earlier. Man, you know how we do where we're from, man. - Man, we good, bro. We all make mistakes. That's why we all here, huh? - You're a good dude, man. Thank you. - Man, that ain't nothing but God. That reminds me, if any of you would like to well, you're more than welcome. - Count me in, man. I just hope God will help me take care of some of these bills, 'cause I ain't been hustling in a while. (everyone laughs) - Let's hope the church don't burn down first. - Hey, count me in too. I'll be there. (gentle music) (birds chirp) (gentle music continues) - Hey, you okay? (gentle music continues) What's wrong? Talk to me. - Yo, where you been, man? I've been looking for you. (gentle music continues) - Needed some alone time, man. - Yo, what's wrong with you, Jay? - Excuse me, we're talking right now. - Man, get your girl out of my face. - Look, you overstepping your boundaries, dog. - What, you're choosing a female over me now, bro? - What's up with you, dog? (tires squeal) - Yo man, we got company. Yo, he wants me to smoke you, dog. (gentle music continues) - Paris, Paris, you need to go to the church. - Jaylen, what is going on? - You need to go right now. - I don't wanna go. - Go, run. - Go, go man, go. Go, go, go. (indistinct) From the depths of my soul So excuse me if I seem A little giddy or maybe even strange (indistinct) - [Diggy] Come on. Come on, bro. Come on, come on. - Dig, this way. This way, Dig. What you doing man? You serious right now, man? You crazy? - I'm sorry Jay. - What's taking you so long? - Daddy, daddy, daddy. Jaylen's in trouble, we have to go now. (indistinct) We have to go. - Yo, yo, Jaylen's in trouble. We gotta go. - All you gotta do is cock it back and pull the trigger. - What's going on? - Mr. Aaron, I don't know what's going on but Jaylen and Diggy are in trouble. These guys... Where are they? Where are they? - They said they were gonna kill Jaylen. I don't know, they're outside. - Just go. Go, go, I'll call the police. (phone buttons beep) (phone ringing) - [Operator] 911 Emergency Operator 929. - Look at him. - That's my boy, man. - Your boy? Your boy? (gentle music) - Man Jay didn't do it. - He didn't do it? Who did it then, Diggy? - God, just give me a sign. Anything. Please help me. I don't know where he is. (car horn blares) (gentle music continues) - I'm waiting on you. So you are ready to die, huh? - Jaylen, what's going on? - He's gonna kill my moms and my little brother, man, if I don't do this. - Look, I've hurt a lot of people, and I was wrong for it. Put the gun down. Don't ruin the rest of your life. Please, please, please. Look, I don't even know what's going on, but whatever it is we can fix it. If they owe you money I can pay it, just don't hurt my son. - He doesn't want the money, man. - You got the money? - I can find the money. (sirens wail) - Y'all hear this, man? He can find the money. (laughs) We should have been chasing him all day then, right? This man. (gun cocks) Hey look, this for my niece. - Pop, no. (gun fires) (dramatic music) - [Dre] Cops coming man. (indistinct) Let's move. (sirens wail) - Diggy. Diggy. (Diggy coughs) Diggy, come on, man. Put your head up, put your head up. Come on, breathe, breathe. You good, you good. - I'm scared Jay. - You're good, man. Relax. We need help. - I'm scared, Jay. I'm scared. - Don't be scared, man. You're good, all right? You're gonna get past this, man. You good. - Tell my brother I love him. - I love you, dog. - I'm sorry. - I'm gonna go to church, okay? - I'm sorry. - We're going to church every day. I'm reading the Bible, man, okay? - I love you, man. - Come on, we need help right now. Stay with me, Diggy. Stay with me. Stay with me. (sires wail) (sires wail) Come on, man. Come on, Diggy. Diggy, wake up, man, no. Diggy, wake up, man. (sirens wail) - [Radio] Shots fired. All right, 10 four. (dramatic music) (knocking on door) - [Radio] Perp's in Los Angeles. Suspect's a male, unknown, wearing a red shirt. - Excuse me, ma'am, is your son Demetrius Smith? (gentle music) (Mom cries) - Mom? Where is Diggy? (Mom cries) - Mom, it's killing you, it's killing us. Mom, I can get you some help. Cal and I still need you, Mom. I just miss the way things used to be. (glass breaks) (Mom cries) - God, I miss my friend Diggy. I just hope he's okay. I just wanna thank you for bringing my pops back into my life, and for my girlfriend. I think she's my girlfriend, yeah. I ask that you continue to make me a better man. (congregation claps) Amen. (gentle music) - I think that's when I found God for the first time. - [Aaron] Man, that's an amazing story. I feel the same way, bro. - Hey, you missed a spot. - Oh, man, it's just you. I was just about to kiss my- - How's everything going with your new positions? - I ain't gonna lie, man, it's different. Earning an honest living is hard work. - Yeah, it's for the birds, man. - But it gives us time to think. As a matter of fact, me and Jay got an idea. We're gonna open up our own janitorial service. - [Mr. Monty] Yeah? - Get other people to work for us. - Right. - We run it. - See, that's what I'm talking about. That's how you do it. When you have your own you don't have to answer to nobody but God. My grandfather taught me that, except he forgot to leave out the part where you have to answer to your wife. So, uh, you ready for later? I have a feeling that your life's about to change for the better. - I don't know, man. About as ready as I'll ever be I guess. - Oh, man, you're gonna be just fine, my brother. You're an amazing man, and I mean that. - Thank you. Me and Jay gonna clock these dollars, open up this business, and get this money. - Legit paper. - Save me some. - We might let you work for us. (everyone laughs) - Ain't gonna happen. Ain't gonna happen. (gentle music) - How are you? - I'm okay. I miss Diggy a lot though. It feels weird not being able to see him every day. - Yeah. I'm so sorry about Diggy, Jaylen. How are things with your dad? - Me and pops, we good. - Yeah? That's good. So, uh, you're gonna come to his graduation? It's today. - Yeah, I was planning on it. What's wrong? - This last session can get really crazy. A lot of old feelings can resurface, and I just wanna make sure you can handle it all. (gentle music) - Hey. - Hi. Hi Aaron. - Hey son. - Hey, Jaylen, how's it going? - Good, Mr. Monty. - That's good to hear, son, that's good to hear. So, uh, you guys ready for the meeting? - Okay. - So, listen, first I'd like to say it's been a pleasure meeting all of you. This is the first time that all participants have been reunited with their children. - Wow. - That doesn't usually happen. And you had a lot to do with that, man. Aaron, you have grown so much as an individual, and as a father. He, uh, he really wants this thing to work. And by thing I mean the three of you. Jaylen, we gonna start with you. Is there anything you wanna say to your pops? - They say it's not how you start, but how you finish, right? So I just want my pops to know I'm proud of him. - Whoa, whoa, whoa, don't tell me, tell him. - I just want you to know I'm proud of you, pops, and I'm happy to have you back in my life. And I love you. - I love you too. Are we good? - We great. We Gucci. (everyone laughs) - Shaelyn, what do you want from Aaron? - I, I forgave Aaron at the altar, but I just wanna say, I mean maybe, maybe there's not gonna be an us, I just wanna say if there is the slightest chance that you are not gonna be there as a father in Jaylen's life then please, please just end it now. - I know it was hard on you, and you held it down when I was locked up, but I need you and Jaylen both. I just wanna make this right. (gentle music) I know that this didn't work the first time, but Shaylyn, I love you with all of my heart, and I would like to know if you would marry me again? Please? (buzzer buzzes) (gentle music) (gentle music continues) - Hey Calvin, I'm your father. (gentle music continues) - You wanna help her? - Are you gonna help? Would you get... (laughs) - You'll are in trouble. - Hey, hey, hey, put that ball down. - Come get me. (both laugh) - It looks like a party to me. - Oh. - What's up, y'all? How you doing, baby? (gentle music continues) - Hey. (indistinct chatter) Ooh, let's eat, let's eat. - I ain't here to preach and teach to y'all, and tell y'all what to do, y'all are grown men. All I could really say is it's time to go home and do the right thing 'cause don't none of us really wanna be in here. Me and y'all talk everyday about what we need to do. - First of all I'd like to say it feels so good to see all of us together. - Yes indeed. - Bow your heads. - Okay. - Lord, we humbly to come to you once again asking for forgiveness, and thanking you for this wonderful, wonderful food. Thank you, Jesus. In Jesus' name. - Amen. - Amen. - I didn't wanna be too long, I'm hungry. (gentle music) Wanna know what you're thinking You're bigger than the universe You're bigger than the sun and the stars You're bigger than the things That could tear me apart You're bigger than the universe Anybody believing Bigger than the sun and the stars You're bigger than the things, oh my oh my That could tear me apart For I'm yours You created all the Earth For I know you created all the Earth You're bigger You're bigger than the problems I face You're bigger than the disasters I've seen You're bigger, you're so much bigger Jesus Than what this life may bring (singer vocalizes) You're bigger than the universe Yes, you are You're bigger than the sun and the stars You're bigger than the thing So much bigger than the thing That could tear me apart Could you wave your hand all over this building And tell him you created all the Earth Sing for I know Jesus For I know You're so great You're so great You wanna open your mouth And tell him oh, I know daddy You created all the Earth All the Earth You're bigger, bigger, bigger Bigger, bigger Bigger, bigger, bigger You're bigger, Jesus Bigger than anything I seen Bigger, bigger (indistinct) You're bigger, yes you are, Lord You're bigger You ought to lift your voice And tell him you're bigger Jesus You're bigger than any marital problem Bigger You're bigger than any broken home, God You're bigger than life Jesus You're even bigger than negativity You're bigger You ought to wave your hand And tell him you're bigger, you're bigger Whoa, you're bigger Bigger than HIV You're bigger than cancer, Jesus I don't care what the doctor says You're still bigger than diabetes The stripes on your back makes you bigger The stripes on your back They make you bigger They make you bigger Your blood makes you bigger Your love makes you bigger You overcame death And that makes you bigger That makes you bigger