I bought this Windows laptop from the Amazon renewed store for $54 This one right here is a custom-built top-of-the-line gaming PC for five grand and my friends that is far from the most expensive machine we've got but just because a system costs ten hundred a Thousand times as much Does that really make it that much better? We're gonna take a look inside these systems test them and game on them to see what your hard-earned cash can buy at these drastically different price points Starting what I got for 50 bucks. Look at this thing. I don't know if you're supposed to do that. And like look at the screen like it's got this segue To our sponsor. Ugreen their nexode pro 100 watt is compact and powerful being able to charge Three devices at the same time whether it tags along with you during your travels or stays plugged in in your wall at home You'll first have to pick one up using the link in our description Okay The Lenovo 100e only has a dual core processor, just four gigabytes of RAM and it doesn't even have a full HD screen. But aside from a little bit of shmoo that's still on it from the refurbishing process. I mean, it's a pretty usable little machine. Except it's not what we ordered. I don't think anyways. I was looking at the product page. That's a completely different computer. I think this is like the second generation one. It doesn't support touch gestures. You can't scroll with two fingers. No. She's dropping frames. A hundred percent of your CPU being used by system interrupts. This is a completely different computer. Yeah It doesn't even have the same processor I mean it has two extra cores like the multi-core performance is better But the the single-threaded is quite a bit worse. It's like 25% worse. Which matters a lot on these super underpowered machines. Because a lot of what you'll see when you open up task manager and you do anything on a computer like this watch I'm gonna open up Chrome, is see that, your CPU is gonna spike to 100%. So having a few cores that turbo faster, actually makes for a noticeably more responsive experience. It's eMMC. It's not a like a SATA SSD. right! Curiously, it actually shows up as an SD card in task manager. Why don't you try to play a 4k YouTube video? That's like, you know I have a suite of tests that I want us to you know experience as a baseline on each of these machines and 4k crab rave is one of them. Okay. Hold on a second. Just give it a moment. Hold on a second. No, no, no, no, hold on a second. Look that's mint. No, it's really not. it's fine. It's actually fine right now. Oh There were some drop frames, oh. I can't tell if that's just the display mind you. Probably don't need to be streaming 4k videos on a screen like this. Oh, yeah. There we go. There we go Like the same level of crust. Well, don't try to multitask. yeah, I wouldn't recommend that. You notice something weird about this? There's like a skin on the bottom Yeah, why don't you peel it off? It's on the entire laptop including the touchpad. Oh, so whoever the student was who had this probably because this is an educational model. Did they skin it? You know what? Maybe the school put it on because it got damaged gave it to a new student. Yeah, yeah, actually that's a really smart way to mitigate that, when we were reacting to tech support gore. We saw some of what happens to these educational laptops and putting a plain black skin on them would mean if someone were to scribble all over it you just, Peel it off and throw a new one on. Imagine skinning this laptop between the vinyl and the labor involved I think you just doubled the value of it. Does it look like it got applied? Yeah day one. Maybe day three. Oh My god, are you rolling on this Glen, Glen come over here. Jake, Jake check this out check this out. So that's a screen right? You know, that's what colors look like. It's minecraft looks like. If you want to get anywhere near that saturation you got to get the darkness. oh I gotta be shorter. Yeah, you get see see what I'm talking about. You get like a ass. What are you talk? Well, I know but you get a little sliver of color saturation. Oh, I get what you mean. Yeah, right. It's not good. It's not good, but it was also $50. Yeah, With windows. Yeah, and a battery if all you're doing was Google Docs. It would be fine. Yeah, and it's actually not the stupidest thing you could buy. No, it's really not considering the cost. What's your next test? Oh my god minecraft. Nice. So I installed a few mods that make minecraft run better. Okay, so single-player minecraft you're doing the chunk generation. Yeah locally. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah So if you're playing on a server, you might get a little bit better performance this is with every setting at the absolute bare minimum, with Sodium which is a frame rate optimizing thing with lithium, which is like Optimizing the chunk stuff, with another thing that does chunk optimization with another thing that does GPU frame time Optimization. Have you ever thought that maybe adding all those optimizations added overhead? No. Oh This is rough, dude, if you just vibe in one spot 64 FPS look at that. Wow. Not bad, not bad. Okay, but what happens if we move? Oh 20 Hey, as long as we don't have to generate any chunks, you're right. It's serviceable. Yeah, it's chunky. There are other games I want to try on the other computers naturally They don't launch on this one. Yeah. Yeah. Wow If you get a headshot I will buy you lunch if you kill somebody I will buy you lunch. So a headshot is two lunches? I'm sure I'll give you two minutes. Okay, how about that two minutes? Yeah, five minutes. All right five minutes. Did we load so long that we got kicked? Oh my god, okay, I dead. Even get a chance to see anything It's this one FPS but I think it's actually a situation where you have like 0.5. Dude, there is no way. You're not it didn't even go to full brightness. Oh, okay. You did technically get a headshot too I just got lunch baby. He's got the taste of defeat in his mouth right now, that's why he's all Okay It takes a little while to register that you've pressed the recording button. But hey once you do it It didn't look that bad. This actually looks perfectly fine. It's not very saturated. Oh, thanks for that real mature. It's not very saturated But in fairness that might be the screen. So maybe we can get a comparison The footage versus what it looks like on the screen, you know, I Have one more thing for you to try on this one because the rest of them is probably not worth it. This is a client for Olama which allows you to run Large language models. Tell me how pretty I am in the form of a haiku. The page file is twice the size of the actual memory. So I'm never gonna find out how pretty I am then I? No. Rad whoa It helped put one word rad That's not a haiku. Well, you know what? I'm taking it Oh radiance. I kind of liked rad better. Oh Wow, oh, it's like going now. I think it's finally like loaded in. Radiance like dawn. Yeah, oh it's gonna get after us about how haikus are not about directly expressing beauty. But it's not gonna get the number of syllables, right? Okay, she's done Radiance like dawn's light pretty as cherry blossoms bloom beauty-descent full of shit, I mean your hair you could maybe say is Radiant. It can compute for $50. It can play a YouTube video and Minecraft ish. Now we're moving up in the world. How is this a $500 gaming system this case alone looks like it costs a hundred and twenty bucks. This is the new one from Phanteks It's the XT Pro. I believe. A lot of case for not a lot of money tempered glass comes with a fan looks decent They do have an RGB version. That's like twice the price. Don't buy that buy this. And the specs are pretty decent too. we get six Intel 12th gen performance core 16 gigs of RAM a Radeon 6600 GPU and Okay, that 500 watt thermaltake power supply hasn't made it through the labs gauntlet yet, but it's running Indeed. It's a little bit over the budget. You're looking at like $540 this is pretty much as good as it gets, unless you're gonna buy a used GPU, Which if you're spending this kind of money on a computer, you probably should. You won't get a warranty But you will get a lot more performance while that GPU is still working. Of course if you're gaming at 1080p. This might be all you need. Anyway, let's take her for a spin. Wow that loaded a lot faster Okay, so we still have the optimization mods to make it Okay, even playing field and I have these settings in the absolute dumpster like on the laptop. It's at 1080p though So this is higher resolution. It's press f3. Butter smooth. 1,800 frames per second. turn the settings up a little bit. Yeah, I think we could afford to do that Fabulous. Wow, look at the world out there. She's struggling just a little bit to be fair. I wouldn't recommend Running 16 render distance on like a local game. That doesn't tell the entire story of the performance experience In fact, you guys can probably even see the occasional hitch in our recording, and that's not because our GPU isn't fast enough to render this it's rather because the chunks need to load occasionally and the whole system is like. Play some counter-strike. Hey, it's quiet though. I was thinking exactly the same thing. It's damn near silent. Let's see you get a kill. You just wait. So this is fully maxed 1080p. 200 FPS isn't enough for you. I mean, I don't know. I haven't played CS2 literally once. This is so much better like not a hundred times better like last time. This is a thousand times better in terms of the experience. Hmm. I mean you're standing right now. How did you just how did how did he not die. hit him in the shoulder? I hit him in the neck No, I'm sure it was the neck. Editor replay. Dude, you can get so much gaming PC for around 500 bucks these days. That's great. All right, let's fight. Boom Why do you just, oh my god. 1080p medium preset you turned off motion blur. casual 80 FPS. No upscaling. 100 right there. Jesus is great 70 plus degrees on the CPU and 56 on the GPU. Hold on. We're only drawing like 40 50 watts on the CPU. Sure That's efficiency, baby. We don't even have the front fans installed in the case. Let's see how our haiku does. SSDs ramping up. Yeah, okay Everything's being loaded. Oh, wow Wow That is also not a haiku. Stop it for a second and say that's not a haiku. Is that a haiku? No. the experience and this is what we're talking about when we say bang for the buck or Sweet spot from a value perspective. You should definitely save your pennies for a $500 PC If you can, the question now is is it worth spending another ten times as much and getting a $5,000 PC? Goodness look at this thing $5,000 but it looks the part done it It's one of those things where when you get to this class Performance you kind of have to spend money on looks to get to this budget. Wow. Yeah. That's 300 US dollars of fans We spent as much on cooling as we did on the entire other computer, by the time you put the AIO. Oh, definitely. Yeah more easy. Yeah 6400 megatransfers per second, dual 48 gig RAM sticks. 360 mil AIO with a screen on it. And look our 14900 KS works. It's a cake. Here we go and Loaded. Oh pretty good. We've changed resolutions. We're now at 4k. boom 800 frames per second. I'm still getting the occasional hiccup, But honestly, this is better than what we were running last time in terms of the playability of it Like I can notice a difference. Than the 500 one? yeah. How is this even minecraft? I know right? The crazy thing is if you don't run these shaders on stupid settings like we are this is the ultra preset for BSL shaders as they're called, The performance it is not actually insane. This is beautiful. This is a lot. And it's still running at 200 frames per second. This is awesome. I adjusted the render distance down to 16. Would you say that this is a 10 times better experience? Than the last one in Minecraft. No, no It's five times better, if you don't waste money on $300 worth of fan. Okay, hold on. You can get pretty amazing performance for not quite ten times the budget. You can Immediately slash a thousand US dollars off of this computer by just getting rid of the fans and buying a cheaper 4090. You could probably drop another hundred bucks with a cheaper motherboard, cheaper cooler, cheaper RAM. It's like a 500 US dollar RAM kit Oh crap. Oh my god. Oh, you didn't even get killed by that guy. That sucked. Oh Stop it Jake stop that. Consistently above 200 FPS. Very nice. Do you need a $5,000 computer to do that? Not really. Full ultra ray tracing like hurt my computer settings with no DLSS. That's 45 FPS. I believe it. I don't believe that It does not feel good. I'll set it to something more reasonable. This is probably how I would play this game. Oh Oh my goodness, I'm so sorry. Oh, oh, I'm sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Frame rate is identical. Okay, see no, I'm confused now because this is way smoother than it was before, Obviously smoother. Yeah. But it's reporting around 40 FPS. So I think maybe the report before was wrong. Trying like just no ray tracing sure. Oh, yeah No, that's 60 FPS for sure. Yeah. Yep. Oh, yeah. No the frame counters, right? Can it write a haiku? Oh, what are our temps like? Oh, wow. Yeah Casual like, 63 degrees on the GPU and our CPU got a little spike there She got a little spiky dude that GPU hit almost 400 watts. Yeah Let it load for a second. That's a proper haiku. no way. Your radiant smile cascades in waves of sunlight Beauty endless sea. Oh my goodness, so it's The GPU is actually at a hundred percent usage. It's our power consumption. Not even that high Yeah, do you wanna try a harder to run language? Well, let's do that a daunting task spring haikus no way It starts categorizing them wild Frosty morn silence, snowflakes dance gently falling slow Nature's peaceful hush. This may be ten times better than our last This might be more than ten times. Or you might want to spend even more and treat yourself to our $50,000 computer. Are you ready for this one? I'm so ready. Try not to drop it. I'm not gonna drop it. It's a server no, it's not. it's a server. it is a workstation and Now it's a server. I don't see it in Iraq. Is this actually gonna be faster for gaming? I have no idea Alright, let's find out right away. I can see where some of the money went Why have one 2,000 watt power supply when you can have two? 2,000 watt power supplies the super micro AS-2115HV-TNRT is no Ordinary machine might look like a server. In fact, it has a rack mount style case like a server would it even has server features like the ability to remotely manage it through a web interface But it isn't a server since it doesn't have a data center CPU like AMD's epic lineup Instead going for a Threadripper and not just any Threadripper This is the full fat big daddy Threadripper Pro with a whopping 96 cores and a hundred ninety two threads and oh my god, it's beautiful. Wow This is a fifty two thousand dollar machine with everything that's in here right now And this is a fifth of that, just the CPU. Not one, not two, not three, But four of Nvidia's RTX 6000 ADA cards and these are special, you know They might say that it's the same 80 102 chip as a 4090. Oh, it's not This is the chip that would have been in a 4090 TI which they never made. So it has like 10% more everything and double the VRAM. These have 48 gigs of VRAM on? And we have four of them. It works out to like a calm cool and collected 27,000 US dollars at MSRP. Now typically when you buy a system like this from super micro You'll spec it ahead of time for exactly what you want and they'll build it for you But we asked for a more bare-bones config so we could take the original storage drive they had in here and add some more Each of these is one of Keoxia's 15 terabyte CD6 data center drives giving us a total of About a hundred terabytes of solid-state storage in here. Does that get us to 50 grand? to 52,000 actually. How much RAM did we put in here? Because it's Threadripper Pro and not epic a lot less RAM sticks We only have eight channels. They put eight 64 gig DDR5 DIMMs So 512 gigs of RAM, you could put more micron makes 128 gig DIMMs now. All right, I think we'll be okay with 512 gigabytes of RAM. for gaming. For gaming. This is Threadripper Pro. It is unlocked for overclocking. You can turn PBO on this CPU. Does super micro support that on this motherboard though? Oh, it's on the product page memory and CPU overclocking enabled mind you on this air cooler. They only rate it to like 351 Oh, that's it, huh? Yeah. Oh, well, just the stock TDP. It can probably do more. It's definitely ten times louder than the last machine. And maybe a hundred times louder than the previous one. It might be a hundred times louder than the last one Dude I'm gonna click so many heads with this bad boy. I can feel it. This always amuses me. I can't stop. 96 cores and she's still turbos over 4 gigahertz. This is an incredible turbos over 5 gigahertz Crazy. Well, I feel like we should start with the drives, right? We didn't really do a storage test on any of the other ones just because not that exciting, this one Different story. Oh, you gotta make make your RAID array. This is ridiculous Hey, look at that. I think you could fit your games on here. Yes. Yeah, I think so. Holy mackerel. Yeah, she'll suck back about a hundred and seventy watts just moving data around. All right. games? Yeah, 2000 again Kind of depends where you're looking at. That's not that great. Are these workstation cards really that much slower? I wonder if this is one of those scenarios where we're we're actually CPU bottlenecked. Yeah, I mean we could be because even though we've got a ton of cores it's spread across multiple dies on the package, So if we're accidentally using a core over on this die and a core on this die and a core on this die There can actually be a performance loss as that data gets fetched across the different dies. Definitely, is this the first time that spending ten times as much gets to a performance downgrade? Yes. Okay render distance. What do you want? 16 chunks? 16? 32? 24? Well, you know, we got all these cores just send it Sure. Back to game. Oh Dude, dude, dude, dude, dude. Did you see that one hitch at the beginning? But other than that even while it's generating chunks. Oh, there was one more. This is by far The smoothest I've seen. I think it's the same. It's not the same. The $5,000 rate? No, you'll feel it. You'll feel it You'll feel it. Let me slide on it. She doesn't slow down See, this is it folks. Maxed out Minecraft ridiculous mode. Despite there being 10% more everything in these graphics cards They don't have as much clock speed. Yep. They're power limited. Yeah. So we are using it a hundred percent now in some cases Oh, yeah. No, she goes up. She goes up but a 4090 is still gonna be faster in real applications. That multi-threaded chunk loading is gnarly. I think it goes so fast that it actually just like starts to Crap its pants a little bit. All things considered? 60 FPS. Yeah, like it's definitely using more than one core Oh, yeah, you know, what's interesting though? Is that while we used to be able to run multiple GPUs together to render games in SLI or NVLink, these days It's kind of dead. So. You can run a Counter-Strike Yeah, but it's just gonna use a single GPU and probably not going to run as well as our last system did. Hey look It's less FPS. No. So basically you shouldn't spend ten times as much if you want to get better at CS2. Unless we're talking about a $50 computer. But you could spend ten times as much and get better at running large language models It's not even worth running cyberpunk at this point. We're gonna write the best haikus. This is an Enormous model. It's bigger than the memory We have even across all of the GPUs and I'm telling it to do the stupidest thing. Write me a hundred haikus about how MKBHD is better than LTTstore.com is. Okay, we had a different vibe there. Immediately all of the GPU memory is full Look at those drives go. Pulling 500 megabytes a second times 8, 4 gigabytes a second. Just casual, just casual Jake. Loading up that system memory Casually, you can actually see it's going at about 4 gigs a second dumping it into system memory I suspect our GPU usage is not gonna be that great But it should run which is more than you would get on most other computers. Oh, oh, I see, I see power usage Here we go. Here we go. Here we go So this looks unimpressive But this is like a 200 plus gigabyte model. So it's actually kind of kind of impressive. I mean our CPU trying 240, 250 just Coordinating all of this crap. Even like the top-end H100, H200 kind of GPUs that are meant for AI struggle to have a hundred percent utilization when you're just talking to them Rather than training. It better be right. Is it right? Not even right. Oh my god We get the best model and it can't even do it. Okay, hold on. Hold on LTTstores Got all the best Techies rejoice now. These suck. It's 5, 5, but it's 8 in the middle I don't know how good they are with syllables either. Let's try a small model on all the GPUs. I am doing a destination wedding and I have no regard for the feelings of My family and friends who are inconvenienced by this. That's literally all your main fork. Here we go. I strongly advise against sending an invitation designed to manipulate your guests Microsoft and Mistral are both like hell. Yeah, let's go Haha, got em! So easy. Oh man, just pretend it's a meme bro. Hey, look at that 150 watts. Let's go. Well, It does it.How useful it is? I don't know but sure. It's fast. You can do so many AIs on this thing. Yeah, we can do blender. That'll run a multiple graphics card. Sure Lala 2.6 seconds like it takes a second to get really good, but Should we render it? Sure Nine seconds not worth it for gamers. No, definitely not. First, I think we need a bit of a summary on this one. Yeah, $50 computer No. Docs? Google Docs? Sure. $500 computer though? Dude, if you're gaming at 1080p like the vast majority of people on Steam are. 100%. You're fine And if you're willing to go for a secondhand GPU, you're more than fine. You have a great little machine that can do pretty much everything from light video editing and photo editing to Playing games like cyberpunk. Totally. You can spend $5,000 and you will have a better experience. And it will look cooler. And you may even be a slightly better gamer But not nearly enough to justify the difference in expense. No. As for machines like this, well if you don't know you need it You don't need it. So you can put your oil prints money away. Yeah, unless you're like a large language model oil prints. Yeah, or a 3d rendering of oil prints. Then it's great Just like our sponsor. Squarespace whether your business is just getting off the ground or you've been in the dark ages of cold calling for a while a Website will give you that extra push to take things to the next level That's where Squarespace comes in. Their Squarespace blueprint guided design system Gives you the ultimate starter pack to get the creative juices flowing with professionally curated layout and styling options Then once you've laid the foundation use their fluid engine editor and it's code free Drag-and-drop elements to customize to your heart's content Your website also comes with integrated SEO tools and advanced analytics so you can optimize what's working and identify what might need a little Tweaking, you can even set up your website to take payments by a credit card PayPal and more so head on over to squarespace.com/LTT for a free trial and Save 10% on your first purchase of a website or a domain. If you guys enjoyed this video Maybe go check out the time. We looked at a whole bunch of different price points It was a number of years ago, but I still think it was pretty illustrative. It was a very long time ago 500 bucks though, okay