- Okay, biggest movie Could Jack have fit on that - Oh my gosh, I thought it. I remember balling my eyes out when I was, a girl. (laughs) - That's telling, I think. - That is the biggest controversy. - Ever. - In modern cinema. History. - [Brad] Could you? Could (laughs) - No comment, Brad. - Did you mentioned it at the time, were you like, &quot;Should we - Like I said, I have no comment. (laughs) - It's movie magic, my friends. - This movie is amazing. It's, you probably heard this before, but it is definitely a love letter to movies, movie-going, movie making, the unsung heroes that make movies. - Television, LA. - There's a lot there. But what I really wanna 'cause I feel like all four is let's revel in our love - Yeah. - What's the movie that you grew up with that made you obsessed with movies? What was the first movie that. - Got you obsessed? - 'East of Eden'. - All right, James Dean. - Well, the first film was the black and white downtown and bursting into tears, and falling in love with but when I, you know, was watching that very in 'East of Eden', who would just, blew me away-- - Blew me away. - The first movie I remember that I watched like 50 times over, was 'Robin Hood: Men in Tights' and, (laughs) I was like five and it was, kind of inappropriate of a movie for a five year old to watch everyday. - That's really funny. - That's really funny. For me, it was the drive-in, we would see films at the drive-in, early age, and it was, it was 'Guargantuan', 'Guargantuans'? 'Guargantuans'. It was a good guargantuan, - Don't remember it. - It's. Only Quentin would know about it. And the good one has to sacrifice himself to take out the bad one. Tears, and then I went straight from that to Butch And Sundance, then the ending, tears again. - There's a great moment in the film, where your character Sharon sees her face and name on a poster, on a marquee, and on this big screen. Do you remember that moment for you guys, when the first time you saw your name, or face, and was that a big moment? - I do, it was 'Parenthood' and on the Warner Brothers lot, there was a big poster of me, and I stood there for hours, and I had my mother take a picture. (laughs) - &quot;Sir, you're gonna have to leave.&quot; - Good on you for admitting that. (laughs) - There was a poster of and I remember like, I just gotten to America and I'm like 30 feet high up there, and I was so, and I to take a picture of me. I was like, &quot;Could you like I'm gonna stand right here.&quot; And they kept cropping out the poster, and I kept having to be like, &quot;No I need it, I need that's the point of the picture.&quot; And they're like, &quot;Why?&quot; And I was like, &quot;I just (laughs) - That's sweet, that's - Yeah. - Is there a classic sad to admit right now you've never seen? - 'Gone With The Wind'. - What? 'Gone With The Wind'? 'Gone With The Wind' either. - Are you serious? - I got-- - Oh my God. (laughs) (laughs) 'Gone With The Wind' or 'Sound - I have never seen 'Sound of Music'. - What? (laughs) - I figured, have you seen it? - Like a thousand times! I remember when we did you would get angry at me all the time, any time I'd mention He'd be like, &quot;How have you (laughs) in this industry and not I'm like, &quot;I just got in this industry. You've had more time to watch this stuff.&quot; And I went home, and I'd and watch all the movies, he's like, &quot;You have to see this, - I figured I've gone this long, why start now? I'm going all the way. I refuse to see it. - What? - And I kind of don't watch it now, just because it infuriates people so much. Like, &quot;How? How have you not watch And I just kinda wanna see - Let's go deep, some big or profound controversies over the years. And one that struck me watching the movie, Sharon puts her feet up, in a movie theater. - And they're dirty. - I don't even care if they're dirty, man. (laughs) I mean. - Dirty feet. - Dirty feet. - Quentin likes some dirty feet. - How dare you dirty feet. (laughs) - But is that ever appropriate for someone's bare feet - In the 60's it sure was, right? I mean, I wouldn't know. it's a good question. I did think about it, I was like, &quot;Does this? I don't wanna convey that because she's neither of those things. - If you had the space, if close by, I'm gonna say. in the front. - I'm gonna say it's okay. - Maybe not shoes anyways, it's not shoes. - Just your feet. - Larry David may have a problem with it. - But they were dirty. - They were dirty feet. - A couple other important perennial movie arguments, True or false? Floyd from 'True Romance' is the greatest stoner - Absolutely true. Thank you. 1,000%, &quot;Get cleaning products.&quot; good ones. - &quot;Condescend me (bleep).&quot; - &quot;Condescend, I'll (bleep) kill you.&quot; - Godfather One. Quentin Tarantino. - My favorite movie of all time. - [Josh] 'True Romance'? - Really, is that right? to the 'True Romance' music. oh that's a good guy. - Comic book movies, I was there is a connection in that, Margot's next film, or upcoming which was shot under of the title, correct me if I'm wrong, Fox Force Five. - Correct. Fox Force Five is, do you remember? - No. - Fox Force Five, you tell them, Margot. In 'Pulp Fiction,' - When Uma and John Travolta having their five dollar milkshake, she's explaining the pilot that she, which I think in real life Uma had done, I think that dialogue - That she'd done a pilot like that. - She'd done a pilot like that. And then he turned into dialogue, and then she talks about, Fox Force Five. (laughs) But, in our movie there's and, like everything we to like, oh Tarantino moments that we pray to like inject into the film. So it felt fitting, and then, also I asked &quot;Would you mind if we Fox Force Five?&quot; And he was like, he thought - Does it have a little subversive Tarantino - I mean, yes, the spirit's - Leo, on this group is the only one that's eluded comic book movies. You've done your time as - Thank you. - Your role was amazing in 'Deadpool 2'. - Thank you very much. - Oh yeah, I was like, That was really funny, actually. - Is that it for you? Have you capped out, have you topped out? - I think I've taken it (laughs) - It's kinda mic drop that, that was a good scene. Ryan Reynolds came up with it. A part that I could fill. - It's very funny. - I'm completely lost in everything that's being talked about. (laughs) - You're so Rick Dalton right now. - Oblivious Rick Dalton. (laughs) - Oh my God, Leo's still in character. (laughs) - By the way. - I carry my characters a year after. - Last thing for you, there's an epic kind of for your character in this film, where he's just like melts down, and he can't get through it. Did that remind you of of your career's work, like you just could for what ever reason? - [Leo, Brad, Margot] Yeah. (laughs) - Yeah. A few of them come to mind. - Definitely, so many come to mind. - I think we've all had those, and they're the worst. They're the nightmare of going (laughs) The real live version of it. - And just can't get out of your own head. - You got a 100 people on the set. - Yes. - And you're, everyone wants to move on to the next or go home, you have a co-star who's and done it well, and they're waiting on you. - I once had to do a scene where I had to be speaking Lingala, and there was also like stunt stuff happening at the same time, so it was really crucial, and I just couldn't speak. I couldn't like, I was like, and I practiced this for so many months, and I cannot get my mouth and I kept messing it up. - It's usually has to do with I remember doing on 'The Aviator' a massive dialogue sequence, and I then I just had that was my whole day, and I couldn't, literally Of course Scorsese was like 40 takes later like, &quot;Oh my God!&quot; I could not say these two lines. - Did it make the movie?