(gentle music) Welcome to my world. (upbeat music) Two escargot, Ponte Frisee. Two green salads. Okay, mind this work here. Lamb chops, steak frites. Shouldn't you be Two sole filet and Come on, make the dessert. Chocolate tart please. As a cook, taste and Now I'm in search of new ones. So I'm leaving New York City, and hope to have a few And I'm willing to go to I'm looking for extremes I'll try anything, I have nothing to lose. Let's face it, New York City In fact, it's the If you live in another city, you may think you live in a (upbeat music) New York, New York. It's not just a It's where people You know, the Sinatra tune. Okay, okay, sure. What are you looking at? The people are gruff, the rents aren't cheap. And these days, Times Square It used to be New scariest thing in Now Mickey Mouse is the But you know what, I love it It's a place I call home. And no matter what there's one thing that makes The food. New Yorkers live their New York City has more That's a lot of options. This is the Flat Iron district which is a high A few feet over there, which is a very hot A few feet over there And then there's So it's all threatening into one giant monster But even with all the options, New Yorkers will always Yours truly, included. They're the places you Places that mean home. (smooth jazz music) So you know how people Well, those are the New Yorkers who haven't had their breakfast. Whenever I want to treat myself to the best breakfast in fact, the best I go to a place that found fame for just that. The legendary Barney This place has been a New when over a million made New York City their home. Like everything the food and culture that now belongs to everyone. Essential ingredients New York Times, Barney Greengrass, cigarettes. I'm very cranky today. Yankees lose. Mets lose too; But It's a problem ordering here 'cause there's a lot of You know, you just sit there trying to make up your But I know what I'm having. They don't call him the Sturgeon is the absolute It's flaky, but firm, almost buttery flavor. So of course, I order Can't leave here without having the Nova eggs and onions also. I mean, it's overkill, I'm and the Nova eggs and onions. But hey, what the hell. Nova's not a word to It implies the even though the stuff doesn't Scramble that with caramelized and you end up with a smoky, You have a sturgeon What kind of bagel? Plain is good. [Waiter] Plain toasted? Yeah please. There is no other Plain. That's it. Anyway, &quot;Two found shot to attire of both men suggested they may have been &quot;No identifying documents.&quot; Well that's not unusual. I'll call work and find Well, I need a new dishwasher I like my coffee regular. Regular in New York. With milk and sugar. That's a regular. Not even regular, &quot;reglah.&quot; One sturgeon platter, This is a luxurious breakfast. You better have a before you order this. First the sturgeon. It's subtle. Very different A much lighter flavor, Now for the Nova and eggs. This is like the signature The secret to a lot of really Properly caramelized onions. The eggs and the onions and the denseness and the This, on the other but a little smear in your bagel. Believe me, if God he kept it to himself. Thanks. I hit the limit for smokes But there's one more I can't live without. Once your done with you can buy the in the universe to take home. It's fluffy, ethereal. Absolutely the best. And by the way, the source There've been over what the best To my mind, there's I can get a pound of Sure. It is the best chopped Accept no substitutes. Look at that. Caramelized onions, eggs Actually, I know what Thank you so much. As always, a pleasure. See you again next week. Another great thing about I think I'll go lay around and (horn honks) There are lots of big name But when I'm home, I like to eat where my friends are cooking. My friend Scott Bryan happens A small restaurant in Gramercy. Kitchen's closing. Hopefully, he'll be able to Just a crust of bread, that's all I need. (piano music) Okay, to be fair, Scott never exactly throws Veritas presents Scott with a particularly daunting challenge. While its physical one thing about Veritas is huge. Its wine cellar. Vertias has around 3,000 selections Including many '63 Taylor, really great bottle. Seared Olympic halibut. White bean fricassee. Scott's French driven is crafted to compliment You'd never know it but Scott's a regular Like me, he started Most importantly, I know he'd never on my own national (upbeat jazz music) Ordinarily, the way things is I become friends before I enjoy their food. Scott's an unusual case in that You know we've known and some chefs are quite I mean the idea of me competing with him, or giving him advice If he thinks something he always lets me know. It would be ridiculous to... I don't even want to He's a writer now, you know. So we don't have any sort of... tension. I don't consider In fact, I think I'm a Some chefs, they take A good cook and It'll be nice to stop playing I'll just have some humble Ahh, feed me. It's good to be a chef. It's like being in the You know, if you're you can go to another and you meet another who will presumably And eventually, he might shoot but in the meantime, As I wait out front I'm told conferring with Tim Colpeck I've a feeling I'm a simple staff meal tonight. The nice thing with so many is that we have The chef can do different dishes and then we can go about of the different approach. For tonight, there's and we're going to have to just as the food will. What I'm going to do is the fluke ceviche. So we just marinade fluke; Shaved fino salad, basil, chive oil and orange. And a little tomato. Maybe we'll do something very high in acid, or maybe even a German Riesling. Alright darling, Oh yeah. Where's the fluke? Oh yeah, here we go. Oh yeah, I get it now. That's what's about it's a neglected fish. It's similar to sole. Or flounder. And what's the difference About $3 a pound. Seared Atlantic black bass served with a shrimp Ah there's a fish course and instead of being traditional Like, you know the maybe we'll do a This is the next course; Pan-seared black bass. One of the things that separates the artist from the craftsman is to be able to pull of The wine arrived first, so a piece of fish But what Scott's done it's fish dish with a really Surprise is a tough That's when you just... yeah. What do I have here? You have duelling foie gras. Duelling foie gras. He's playing mind I think these two symbolize Scott and me. On one side classically Try to guess who that is. And on the other side... [Scott] Foie gras with rhubarb and the black pepper gastrique. This is really sneaky. Gastrique is a reduction it is classically used (bango music) Oh. Main course, maybe and a little slice of sirloin. Probably a nice, rich, rustic red for that closer wine. Now he's blasting me It's very unfair. Scott is using personal knowledge to mess me up from three levels. One this crude and utterly magnificent wine. It's Marlon Brando in it's a big, sloppy, chunky That's what this wine is. Then he sends me cheek, &quot;I know you like This is a very crude, provincial and utterly wonderful Exactly what he knows I love, and then he's laying it with an ounce of shaved Marlon Brando... Vivien Leigh. This aches for that. So much for loyalty I'm gonna have to thanks to Scott. Scott, that was Why? It was overkill man. That was like the Yankees playing How long have I known you now? Like three years, four I feel like we've being playing and you've been This was brutal. Gee... maybe Scott on my own national TV show. But he'll get his. Someday. (jazz music) If you know anything about me, you'll know that one of my is stinky, runny cheese. The stinkier and the When in New York the best place is right here at Murray's is the place chefs go Robert. Hi, Tony Boudain. How are you? Nice to meet you. Something I haven't done stinky, runny cheese in a while. A cheese tasting, like the restaurants are doing, you know similar We start with milder, And the move onto the [Anthony] Oh I get, before the main event. Apparently there's a lot what kind of milk is used, the hardness and softness and how its treated and aged. These cheese guys Rob insists we We all have our the world's best cheddar. I think that we have two Shellburne Farms and Both from Vermont; The best cheddar's in my Let's cut off some Well this a whole new What a lot of Americans is you know, what That's really good. [Robert] This is the real thing. [Anthony] Moving up the Blue cheese that is. Is there anything more through a good blue cheese? In order to get a blue cheese, penicillin roquefort as the cheese is being made, and that's what causes the blue. And then typically a so that the air can get in it, and that's how the As a kid you're told furry and blue like What is good mold and what Do not be afraid of molds, molds won't hurt you, molds are what you get And they exist in nature, there are very few molds in I would urge everybody to go out and try blue So he's a blue d'auvergne, a raw milk blue d'auvergne. It's creamy, less... more full-bodied but doesn't have the if you grew up on the and liked that, the into blue cheese greatness, Finally we're getting hot. Robert breaks out Stronger and stinkier, not to use the real cheese term, is a vacherin. This just came in, so it'll be even creamier and gooier than this. That is to die for. That luscious More full-tongued experience. Just when I'm finally Robert decides to one-up himself and take me into the This a cave aged from a very very small farm. Wait until you taste this. Oh man. We have this little Did any crazed and break in here at three and start rifling I'm tempted (laughs). You might ask yourself, why doesn't that every town have a cheese store like this? Why just New York? You know traditionally New York is a melting pot of In New York they can sell this. The best places in that never stray from That's what keeps Murray's is no exception, and neither is my next stop. Time for a classic [Bus Announcer] Celebrity Food Network chef Tony Bourdain coming out of Lets face it. The I come here about as which is almost never. There is however one temple of every time I come to It's right there. Papaya King. Frankfurters and juice. Combine the finest with imported and serve in an Ugh forget it. Let's not pretend that a It's ground animal parts Thank you, can I help you? Can I get one with sauerkraut, one with onions and a papaya. [Waitress] To stay or to go? Stay. But as hot dogs go, this is the apex of the hot Wash that down with a creamy It's a classic, red wine and beef, white wine and fish and a papaya drink You know, when you it's not even about It's about home. Papaya King is New York The city, anything can Even late at night I'm for a good meal. This is the ride I take If I'm sitting in the looking out the whipping by the I do all my best thinking Thinking about Skate grill au bois? Nah. Beurre Noisette? That's so last week. Amandine? That's so seventies. Someday a rain is gonna come and was all the bad food All this thinking about How you doing tonight? Doing good, how you doing? Alright, not bad. So you ever seen Robert Di Nero? Yeah that was good, So where do cab drivers eat? All over, there is No-one thinks that there is But there is. There is like one place we always go there. Is this like an all Yeah, most of the people Yeah, that sounds kinda cool. After I drop you off What kind of food is this? It's like, you know, Arabic way. Hey, you hungry? Let's go to this place. Oh cool, yeah, sure, why not? Let's do it. New York really is the But maybe they the city of non-stop eats. It takes a lot of running around the clock, and that's a lot of appetites. Appetites from all In New York slow is especially to cabbies, so the city has of fast-food places which cater to a Amir's specializes in Everything from The food is prepared My cabbie and I both go You know rotisserie beef stacked real tight and After wrapping that you throw in a couple and baba ganoush to Hummus is kind of like guacamole made from chickpeas I know how to make That's roasted eggplants, until the whole eggplant gets seared and charred then you smash it up with All in all you can't beat and the cheap prices at Amir's. So good price, good food Thanks man that You like it don't you? It hit the spot. It was good yeah. [Anthony] New York sense of mystery for me. It's a big, dense city. I've lived here all these years and still, at least once a week, I find something that I to exist. Yet despite all that mystery, New York still as homey and inviting as They say, you know, if you can make it here and I believe that. Most importantly if why would you want to (uptempo dance music) (slow tempo dance music)