A good scientific theory is one that We scientists are even happier when multiple us confidence that we know what we're there is one prediction in modern physics that is science. And I think it's time that I come clean (intro music) Modern physics can predict lots like the aerodynamics involved in flying a And, while videos on both of those topics I'm not going to focus on the complicated- the simplest measurement of all of physics. So, what do I mean about empty space? I mean No atoms. No electric fields. No gravity. Nothing. If I could make a volume that is truly empty, then it seems pretty obvious that the energy density of And yet, when we turn our most we find that the energy density of space isn't The two theories that underpin all theory of general relativity and the General relativity explains the behavior of nature of space and time. Relativity cosmic things; the universe as a whole. focuses on the world of the small- of quarks and leptons and the nature of So, what happens if we ask each of these theories Let's start with general relativity. We universe was expanding. Just shy of fourteen We call this process the Big Bang. we thought that the expansion was slowing down. gravity pulls it downward and causes it to and therefore astronomers expected gravity However, in 1998, we discovered that this it's expanding faster and faster. The only pushing the universe apart harder than The phenomenon that provides this repulsion is form of gravity. Dark energy is essentially very tiny. Converted to familiar units, four individual hydrogen atoms per cubic meter Okay- that's what general relativity Well, the Standard Model says that even in electric fields, gravity and whatnot- it still they're just there. However, if they vibrate in quarks, and all of the fundamental subatomic On the other hand, if the fields are left long-lasting particles, they still vibrate a You might have heard about this sort of thing that things like electrons are both particles vibrations are equivalent to very short-lived disappearing. These particles are called "virtual but we have lots of evidence that they are. The probes this persistent quantum hum. I made a video The bottom line is that these vibrating fields which you can calculate. This Now, when you do that, you have to add up the possible vibrations, including shorter wavelengths means higher energy, that means A mathematician would say that you have to add up but we know that the Standard Model Planck length. I made a video on that, So what we need to do is to add up the than the Planck length and this gives us the Standard Model. And what you find is get with the dark energy of the cosmos. The bigger than the dark energy density. that's equivalent to taking all the mass by a hundred quintillion, then packing all of That's a big disagreement. On the general equivalent to four hydrogen atoms per cubic meter equivalent to the mass of a hundred quintillion precocious toddler would say- that's a lot. theories give hugely different predictions that the discrepancy is so enormously What could be causing the disagreement? Well, It could be that we don't understand the quantum physical phenomenon that we haven't discovered the quantum calculation. Which one is it? question is that we don't know. A lot but none of them are accepted by the scientific by the community, there isn't even a consensus on Some ideas rest on the idea of quantized quantity of space and time, like how Other ideas invoke additional dimensions of but mean that the equations of the Standard Model My own personal guess is that when a proper fields that hum in empty space is done, that and some will be a negative energy and they will By the way, you shouldn't believe that idea. I talking about speculative ideas to remember to not mind that if I'm right, there is still a problem. like plus one and minus one add to zero. But with almost, but don't quite, cancel. After all, we're is a problem that remains unsolved. accessible article on the topic. It explores every single one is a bit on the crazy side. I'm fond of a quote by Niels Bohr when he question-and-answer session of the lecture, that your theory is crazy. The question which No matter. The real thing is the mystery. As Sherlock Holmes," "The game's afoot!" And if to make a name for yourself by solving a question for nearly a century, this is a good one be the person known as the one who resolved (phasing sound) Okay- this topic is a fascinating one. Two disagree very badly. Fascinating and frustrating dirty little secret of science, be sure to like lots of stuff to learn about physics. (outro music)