In this vocabulary master class, for your daily speech to help you sound I'm Jennifer from JForrest English. Now let's get started. First, let's start with some to understand native speakers How's it going? How's it going? How's it going? This is how a native speaker will say, how are How's it going? And if two people haven't seen each you can add on, how's it going? Long time no see. Long time no see, You can reverse them. Long time, no see. How's it going? Long time no see. Here is one that native speakers What have you been up to lately or recently? This is in the present, perfect. What have you been up to? Up to just means doing what? Have you been up? To lately or recently and you How's it going? Long time no see. What have you been up? To lately you will. Sound so natural? Now let's talk about how How's it going? It's going. And then your adjective. It's going great. Long time no see. You can confirm this by saying I know too long. I know it's been a long time I know too long it's. Been too long? Now, although what have you been up to lately? Recently is a long question. Generally, native speakers will answer And then for all of these you can add on and you and you to get the reply from Now let's talk about how to say Thanks so much. Now notice instead of thank You need that S It is required grammatically. Thanks so much. Thanks a million. Thanks a bunch. These are simply alternative Thanks a bunch. Two of my favorite ways to say thank you You're the best, I also say. You rock. You Rock You. Rock. So if you want to sound very natural. You can use those. Two, you could also say I really appreciate That's so kind of you. You can use nice or kind, it doesn't matter. So if you're enjoying this video, why Use one of these expressions, whichever one Thanks a bunch, Jennifer. You rock. Jennifer, you're the best. Jennifer, put that in the comments and to sound very natural. How about to say? You're. Welcome. My favorite, and one that's very common, is No worries. You could say happy to help or my pleasure, or Anytime, anytime, anytime, and I will reply one of these natural expressions saying Now when it's time to say bye, you can If someone is getting into a vehicle, you can Now technically, grammatically, you But native speakers use drive So you will absolutely hear You can say talk soon, talk soon, or see you soon. See you soon. Now let's say someone offers you something like a You want to decline it, but You can say I'm good, I'm good, but thanks anyway. It's nice to add appreciation. I'm good, but thanks anyway. No thanks, I'm good. None for me, but thanks anyway. I'll pass. I'll pass, but thanks, I'll pass. So definitely add on that. But thanks or but things anyway requesting help, you can Give me a hand give. Me a hand. You can say do you mind? And then you need a Jaron Helping me out? Native speakers like to turn Help out. Do you mind helping me out? One I use a lot is Got a sack. Got a sack? Sack is short per second, which represents a small Got a sack? You got a sack. So let me try these expressions with you. Got a sack? Do you mind helping me out by liking this video, It would really help me out. Now if you're offering help to someone else, rising intonation to make Need a hand? Need a hand? Or you can say it as a statement and you can say Give. Them a hand you can help them say let me help you with that let me help with you with that and then you can pick up that Me help you with that. It's Friday, so let's talk about the weekend. You can ask someone, what Again, notice that up to at the beginning, And now I'm asking you, what So what are you up to this weekend? It's very common to ask any plans this weekend and So do you have any plans this weekend? I love the expression on the go. Anything on the go this weekend? It's simply an alternative to plans. Now if you want to arrange social Are you free? On Saturday you can make a statement We should hang out soon. Hang out is when you interact We should hang out soon. Native speakers love using the verb grab. Do you want to grab coffee? Grab dinner, do you? Want to grab dinner sometime? And then you can add your time reference tonight. Do you want to grab coffee tonight? Now, if you're arranging a business You might add the verb to meet. Are you free to meet and then a specific time? Because a meeting takes place at a very You could say I'm available on Thursday Does that work for you? Or you could ask what works best for you. What works best for you well. Whatever works best for you, Bill. Now let's say you want to ask for clarification. You could say, sorry, I didn't catch that. I didn't catch that. Sorry, I didn't catch that. Sorry, what does X mean? And then X is whatever the word Or you could clarify by saying If you're having trouble understanding You can say could you speak up a little? Speak up means speak louder. Could you speak up a little? I'm having trouble hearing If they're speaking too quickly, you I'm having difficulty understanding you. Now. Let's say you want to confirm understanding of either something you've said or You can say do you know what I mean? So you explain something and then You. Know what I mean? Oh, I know what you mean. Does that make sense to you? Does that. Make sense? Or you can simply shorten that and say These two you need to put in your vocabulary. Does that sound good to you? Does that sound good to you? And then native speakers will often shorten that Sound good, Sounds great. There's one idiom you could use, So you could say, are we on the same page? And this is used to say that you agree For example, I could say J Force English is Are we on the same page? Do you agree? Do we have a shared understanding? Now, if you do agree, you can We're on the same page, Jennifer. So put that in the comments We're on the same page. We're 100% on the same page. Are you enjoying this lesson? If you are, then I want to tell you This is my premium training program where the movies, YouTube and the news. So you can improve your listening vocabulary with natural expressions, Plus. You'll have me. As your personal coach, you can look in or you can go to my website and Now let's continue with our lesson. Now, every single day I say I don't know for But there are many different I don't know to help you sound more help you understand native speakers So let's learn over 30 different ways that you First, let's talk about some everyday You can use these in more casual So let's say your friend or Co worker asks you a You. Don't know the answer. How can you reply the most popular answer WIBI? I have no idea. And this is really to stress the fact Remember the question is how far away is the sun? I have no idea. Now we can also shorten I have no idea. No idea. Another common answer is I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Now you can expand on this and Not too sure. I'm not too sure about that. That meaning the question. I'm not too sure about how far away the sun is. Not sure about that. Not sure about what. A fun one is simply to say, who knows? Who knows? Seriously, who knows? Do. You know. Who? Knows. You could say. Your guess is as good as mine. It's implying that you also don't know the answer. Your guess is as good as mine. Well, your guess is as good as mine. I created a free lesson PDF that summarizes You can look in the description or Now another one with the word guess You're letting the person know that So how far away is the sun? If I had to guess, I'd say 100 million miles. I don't know. Am I right? You let me know in the comments. If I'm right. You could say I wish I knew. That's an interesting piece of knowledge. I wish I knew, but I don't. I wish I knew. I wish I could help you. I wish I could help you with that. I wish I could answer that for you, but I can't. I wish I knew, Robin. I wish I knew. You could also say I can't help you with that one. I can't help you with that question. You could say that's an interesting question, but and then use any of the That's an interesting You could also just say I've never thought A common way to answer that question now hey Siri, how far away is the sun? Hey, I was actually pretty close. It was 149,000,000 miles away and I said I'm pretty proud of that. So that's a great way to answer. Just ask Siri or Alexa or whoever else. There are two very common idioms that you can use. The first idiom is beats me. That beats me, but we commonly get And that's the same as saying I have no idea. Beats me. The other idiom is I haven't the slightest idea, and the slightest is this much But you're saying you don't even have that. So it's another way of saying I have no idea. I haven't the slightest idea. Now instead of slightest, you could say foggiest Or you can say I haven't a clue, So they're just slight changes to the same Because I haven't the foggiest idea why. I mean, look at me. Now let's talk about some more professional asked a question but you don't know the answer. So let's say your boss asks you how many units You could reply back and say when do you need to two hours tomorrow, next week and tell If they say right now I need it right now, then you can reply back and Get that, that being the answer, the information. Or you could say let me find out, let You could also say I will as a contraction. All I'll find out, I'll look into this, Another way to reply is to say I need to So you're letting the person know that Instead of check, you could say I need to verify something, I need to You can also specify a specific time or Let me look into this and I'll get back by tomorrow, by next week and let the person know. Let. Me look into it. Now, if you do want to admit that you could say something like I'm not sure offhand. So offhand is just an expression we use Let me look into this and Does that work for you? And you can add, does that work for you to clarify that getting back to them with the Your boss will likely say sure, no problem. Or they might say no, no, no, I have a meeting Well then of course you say, no and get back to you in a few minutes. Of course, by the deadline, Now instead of saying I'm not sure I'm not sure offhand, you could say So again, this is another way of just saying Let me find out and I'll e-mail So you could also use in and a time in 20 minutes, or you could simply say ASAP. I'm not sure off the top of my head. Let me check and I'll get back to you ASAP. That means as soon as possible. You can also say ASAP. There's two different ways They're both acceptable. I think ASAP is more common though. I'll get back to you ASAP. Look into it, get back to you. ASAP. Amazing job. Now let's keep going and talk about more help you sound very fluent and natural Let's do that now. You can absolutely say bye or goodbye. It's grammatically correct. The problem is that it sounds very formal, We say goodbye, but then we So let's talk. About natural expressions you can use the grocery store, at a restaurant, or You can say buy but then add Now you can also say take care Or you can simply say take care. Take care. You can say have a good and then have a good day, morning, Or you can say have a good one, which is Bye, take care. Have a good one. A quick tip is that native speakers commonly Bye, take care, have a good night. It's very common to use 2-3 or more Now you can replace. The adjective good with a different adjective. Have a wonderful day. Have a fabulous afternoon. Have a fantastic weekend. You can say bye for now, which implies Bye for now. Or you can say enjoy the rest Enjoy the rest of your day, your night, Enjoy the rest of your evening. Now I created a free lesson PDF that You can look for the link in the Now let's talk about saying The most common is See you soon, see you later. A common one is also Talk soon, Bye talk soon. See you later. I'll see you later. Now if you have a future date you can say see you next weekend, see and reference that next event you can Can't wait to see you next weekend. Can't wait to see you at the party. You can say bye. It was so nice seeing you It was awesome. It was amazing. It was wonderful. It was lovely and and instead of seeing It was lovely having dinner. It was lovely chatting. So you can add different If your friend is getting into a vehicle, you Be well now. If you don't have a next date you can add some thing to show Bye, let's catch up soon. Don't be a stranger, keep in touch. This is a very common one. Bye. Keep in touch. Take care. Now let's talk about some more You can use these with your friends, As long as it's a. More informal situation we commonly use I gotta head out I gotta take off I gotta By 6:00 I got a jet. You can also say catch you later, catch you later and notice I Catch you later, catch you later. Sometimes we just say later later. A fun expression is catch you on the flip side. I have no idea what the flip side Catch you on the flippity flip. I'll catch you on the flippity flip. Bye. Some people say peace out. I personally have never said this but I Peace out or simply peace. So if that suits your Peace. Out. One of the most common informal expressions. Is just. See ya. So we take. See you later and we reduce. It to see ya. OK, bye. See ya. Bye. Let's talk about some expressions boyfriend, girlfriend, significant By my love, my love, and we By my love, I miss you already. I like that one. I miss you already. Even though they're right there. I miss you already. Bye my love, I miss. You already. I miss. You too. Now we can use our pet name for each other. Bye sweetheart, bye sweetie, bye cuddle bear. Bye my darling or whatever your And if you have young kids, you can use this really cute expression Do you know what comes next in a while? Crocodile. But just use that one with young children. Now let's talk about professional expressions a networking event or conference by Looking forward to working together. So notice the gerund verb we need. You can also use a noun. Looking forward to the conference. Looking forward to the project. If you're meeting someone for It was a pleasure. It was a pleasure meeting you. It was nice talking to you. In a job interview, we Thank you so much for this opportunity. I look forward to hearing from you. The interviewer will also express appreciation. Thank you so much for coming today. I appreciate your time. Thank you so much for your time today. We'll be in touch shortly. Notice that expression in touch. We'll be in touch soon. We'll be in touch shortly. Superiors can add some words of encouragement by Keep up the good work, the Or they might say, if you need By if you need me, I'm a phone call away. You know where to find me, which is You know where to find me, I'll be on my phone. You know where to find me or a common one And that's encouraging you to come back if you My door is always open. You're doing such a great job now. One of the best ways to understand native speakers and to sound more fluent and There are so many idioms in in you are going to learn fifty of the Let's do that now. To. Play something by ear. This is when you make a decision in the So let's say you're talking about your weekend and your husband or your friend says And you might say let's play it by ear. Let's decide as the weekend Let's play it by ear to be all ears. We use this to say that you're ready to So let's say you tell your boss you want to and your boss replies, I'm all ears, I'm all This is a great one we've all done. This is when you wake up in a So let's say you wake up, you your husband says, oh hi honey, how are you? Would you like some coffee? What do you want for breakfast? And you're grumpy. I don't care. Where's my phone? And you're being grumpy. Well then your wife, your husband can say, well, And that's just to let you know When you wing something, you perform a speech So you definitely don't want To make a mountain out of a molehill. A molehill is really small. A mountain is really Big South. It's when you take a minor problem or issue So let's say you got one question wrong on a test Someone could say, don't make They're letting you know it's really This is when you have to make a really Let's say you've been a graphic designer back to school and changing careers So you might say, I'm not sure if I I'm at a crossroads because that decision This is when it rains heavily. So let's say your friend in a different And it did. It rained heavily. You can say, yeah, it rained cats This is when you're really, really happy. So let's say you got a new promotion. You can say I'm on top of the world This is when you ignore someone. And you ignore someone on purpose, annoyed with them, they did something So let's say your husband or your Why? Are you giving me the cold shoulder? It's another way of asking why are you mad at me? What did I do wrong? Why are you giving me the cold shoulder? To sit on the fence. This is when you delay making a decision, usually because that decision is For example, I asked my boss for a promotion, but He won't say yes, he won't say no. He keeps just saying, oh, I need to He's sitting on the fence This is when you accurately For example, you hit the nail on the head So you explain the situation This simply means you feel great, you So maybe you could say since I more fruits and vegetables, This is a great one to get This is when you do something or you For example, let's say you've been talking You research it, you look at different websites, you talk to people about it, but Someone might say just go skydiving So once you do it, you can stop researching it, I like this one. Speak of the devil, speak of the devil. This sounds negative because This is used when you're talking about someone and This has happened, right? Let's say you're talking to a friend about your Oh, is Bob going to come to the party? Oh, I'm not sure. I haven't talked to Bob. And then your phone rings and guess what? It's Bob. And then you can say, speak of the devil This is when you trust someone, So if a coworker is late and they call let's give him the benefit of the doubt. Let's trust that he's actually stuck in traffic. No pain, no gain. This is a classic one. This is used to say that if you want results, real results, you have to be willing So I might say if you want to improve your you have to be willing to get uncomfortable. Hang in there. This is a great one. It simply means don't give up. I know learning a language A penny for your thoughts. This is used to ask someone what they're thinking. So let's say your friend is just staring out the window and you probably are You can turn to your friend and It's not rocket science. Rocket science is complicated, right? But if we say it's not rocket science, So I could say becoming a confident It's not complicated. You just have to practice speaking This is a great one because it means that you don't punish someone, one, So your boss could say, I but I'm going to let you off the To make a Long story short, this complicated story and you make it So you could say Long story So there's a long story about why you missed You just say Long story Easy does it easy does it. This is a way of saying slow down. So if your friend is at the gym and they're trying you might say easy does it slow down This is when you need to start over and create a So let's say you were trying You came up with a strategy, it didn't work. And then you can say to your team, well, let's Once in a blue moon, this is an For example, I only see Kara once in a blue This is a great one because it means For example, call me if you need anything It means I'll come instantly if you need anything. So it's a really nice, reassuring To add insult to injury, this is when you take So let's say you're going out on a That's already a bad situation. But then to add insult to injury, your date forgot his wallet and you had This means to go to bed, for example, I'm The ball's in your court. This is used when you need to make So I might say we offered her a great promotion. So now the ball's in her court. So it's up to her to decide if she's going to accept the promotion or look for To be or to go barking up the wrong tree. This is when you look in the wrong For example, if you think I lost your You're accusing the wrong person to This is when you're well prepared or So you might say the conference was They should have gotten their ducks in a row. They should have been organized or prepared This is when you enjoy the advantages of She works in the city, but She gets the best of both worlds. The lion's share. This is the largest part or most of I did the lion's share of work on This is when you're performing really well. Wow, you completed all those reports already. You're on the ball to pull someone's leg. This is when you're joking with someone. So we usually use this to reassure Don't get upset. I'm just pulling your leg This is when you need to calm down. You regain your composure after angry, annoyed, and then you calm down South. I might say pull yourself together. It was a false alarm. So the alarm made you really agitated Far so good. This is how you reply when you want to let How's the project going? So far so good to be the last straw. This is when you have no patience So I might say this is her fifth That's the last straw. No more patience for her mistakes. Time flies when you're having fun. This is used to say that you don't notice how So you might look at your watch and And then someone could reply and say, yeah, time flies when you're having This is used to say you're upset, you're angry. For example, Janice is bent out of shape To make matters worse. Matters in this sense means So I might say I have to work tonight. And to make matters worse, to make that situation Don't judge a book by its cover. You've probably heard this one. It means that you shouldn't judge For example, let's say I'm hiring people Look at his hair. And then my colleague would say, well, don't To. Fall between two stools. This is when something fails to So let's say you plan to That movie is supposed to be A romantic comedy. Two objectives. So you could say that movie It wasn't romantic and it wasn't This is when something is exceptionally expensive. Now, airline tickets are usually Even more expensive than usual I might say. My flight cost an arm and a leg to This is used to remind someone that you only So your friend might be concerned. What if I forget all my words during tell that friend cross that Worry about that problem when it This is used when someone complaints So let's say I had a party weeks I can't believe Jon didn't come to my party. Well my friend can say don't cry over spilled. Milk. It was three weeks ago, why Curiosity killed the cat. This is used to say that being questions can lead to an unpleasant situation. So let's say your husband or wife is planning you a surprise birthday party and What are we doing? Where are we going? Who's coming? Then your husband or wife can Just to remind you, don't ask so This is when you lose an opportunity For example, the application I missed the boat to be on fire. This is to. Perform really well. Wow, your presentation was amazing. You were on fire to spill the beans. This is when you reveal a secret when So let's say you're planning a surprise party Don't spill the beans. Don't reveal the secret. And finally, to be under the weather. This is when you feel unwell, when you feel sick. I'm a little under the weather today. You are doing a great job. Think of everything you've learned so far. Now let's focus on how you can share your opinion You're going to learn over Now let's get started with first Let's say you're in a work meeting and you We should hire a marketing You can absolutely see that. But you can sound more professional, Now there are many different phrases you I recommend starting with two to three that once you get comfortable with them so you have Here's the list in my opinion, as far from my point of view, personally, I think I strongly, firmly believe that. I'm convinced that there's no In my mind, it seems to me that, we should hire a marketing As far as I'm concerned, we In my opinion, in my mind, personally, I So you can use any one of these. And remember, variety is key. You don't always want to say, in my opinion, you can absolutely use that, Now let's talk about agreeing with an opinion. So you're in a meeting and a colleague says we. Should. Postpone the conference. Or your colleague used an opinion word and said I firmly believe that we Now let's say that you agree with your colleague. What can you say? Well, again, here's a big list. Start with one to two and add I agree. I agree with you. I think so too. That's a good point. You're right. Definitely, absolutely. I 2nd that. I couldn't have said it better myself. I couldn't agree more. We're on the same page. You hit the nail on the head. So your colleague says from my perspective, And you say I couldn't agree more. We should postpone the conference. You're right, we should postpone the conference. Absolutely, we should postpone the conference. I agree with you. Now let's say your colleague shared an I don't think we should postpone the conference. Personally, I don't think we We have one very specific phrase that you can use Do you know what that is? In my mind, I don't think we Neither do I. Neither do I. You only use this when you're agreeing Now let's talk about disagreeing with an opinion. So you're in a meeting and your calling says Now you don't agree. What can you say? You can say I disagree with you. I'm afraid I disagree. On the contrary. I understand where you're coming But that's a good point. However, I see your point, but I Can I share my opinion? That's one way of looking at it. But have you considered the fact I disagree with you is probably sounds argumentative and we generally So it's way more common to say I'm It makes it a lot softer. Or you could acknowledge that I respect your I respect your opinion, but I My personal favorite in this category is but and then you share your opinion I understand where you're coming from. This is another way of saying I understand where you're coming from, change our suppliers because We should wait until Q4. And remember, you can add your From my perspective, in my mind, from my So you can absolutely combine these Now let's talk about sharing a general opinion. So something that most people would agree with. Here's a statement. Repetition is key when you're Now I personally believe this, This is just a commonly By many different people. So here are some general It said that it's believed that that it's generally accepted that It goes without saying that So I could say it's generally key when you're learning any new skill. And personally I agree. And personally I couldn't So you absolutely can share a general opinion, but then agree with that general opinion using Or maybe you want to disagree with this statement. Well then of course you can use On the contrary, repetition isn't that important. I'm afraid I disagree. Repetition isn't that important in my mind. And then you can share your opinion. And finally, let's talk about how So let's say I shared a general opinion. Most agree that repetition is And I want to ask for your I can say, do you agree? What's your opinion? What do you think? What are your thoughts? What's your view? How do you see the situation? What's your take on it? What about you? How about you? Has that been your experience? What is your experience been? Are we on the same page? Is that something you would support too? So if you're talking to someone it could be really interesting to ask them. Has that been your experience? What are your thoughts on that? Do you agree? I've saved the best for last? Because one of the easiest ways more professional, more fluent, They are the secret to really So now you're going to learn fifty So what exactly are transition words? Well, transition words are individual you can use to organize your ideas and They're commonly used in academic or formal to just that because you can absolutely should use them in your spoken English And if you watch to the end of this video, I'm going to share how you can use transition simple idea and be able to talk on that So stay right to the end. So let's get started. You're going to learn over 50 Don't feel overwhelmed. Just add them to your vocabulary as you go. Our first group of transition words are So here I have two separate ideas. I spilled my coffee. I changed my shirt. Now this is where we can use a transition word to combine these ideas together and to I spilled my coffee. As a result, I changed my shirt. Cause and effect. Here are the transition words in this category, and they're listed from So you can take a screenshot of this thus, for that reason, as a result, to now the example I gave you, I spilled This is a casual statement. It might sound a little odd, perhaps out of place, Consequently, in such a common Consequently I changed my shirt. You could absolutely say it, it's the choice of transition word So do not think that formal is the best. And you absolutely should use formal. You should use formal when they're more academic, they're more Let's look at a business context. The project is over budget. We have to cut cost. So again, we'll show our cause and effect. We'll use a transition word And because it's a more formal context, The project is over budget, hence, Our next group of transition words is chronology. This is how events are related So think of time. Here are three events. I went to the store, I worked out, I made dinner. Now of course we can add first, 2nd. 3rd. 1st, next, finally, that's chronology, and it instantly sounds more organized and more So let's review the transition Firstly, to start to begin at 2nd, secondly, after, afterwards, Third, Thirdly, after, afterwards, next, lastly, last but not least. Now notice that for the 2nd and 3rd events, You can use after, after for the 2nd next for the 2nd and 3rd and 4th and 5th event. But you might want to avoid that so you don't sound repetitive using the same So you can use next, then, then So you can use the different transition words Our next category of transition words is to Let me give you 2 ideas. I love ice cream. I'm lactose intolerant. So can you see how these I love ice cream is great. It's a really positive thing, That's negative and it also So those ideas are in opposition. So we can use our contrasting transition words. However, although though but I love Same thing. The transition words are listed Again, you could say I love ice cream. However, I'm lactose intolerant. But again, these ideas are quite simple, so you Our next category of transition I love ice cream. I love cake. It's adding a similar idea because they're both The most common transition words from most formal moreover, further additionally in addition Obviously, you know that one. So why not try to advance addition I love ice cream In addition I love cake. Now let's talk about generality. This is when things are true most of the time. The most common transition words in this category by and large, for the most part, most of the time, So let's take an example. Our meetings are very productive. Now, of course, I'm sure there's one or but most of the time, in general, generally Now let's look at the category of examples. There are really only three main transition words. For example, as an example, for instance, Now it can make your point a lot stronger or help This software has really helped us. For example, as an example, for instance, Our next category is emphasis. This category is used to make a point stronger Let's take a simple example. I love pie. Now what if I wanted to make this point stronger? I could say it's my favorite dessert. I love pie. In fact, it's my favorite dessert. I love pie. As a matter of fact, it's my favorite dessert. These are the only two transition words And finally, conclusion transition words. Notice I just used a transition word. And finally, that is a conclusion transition word. Now, of course, in this category, we want to end what we're seeing, end Here are the most common transition words In conclusion, to conclude, to summarize, overall, ultimately, in the end, to wrap ending my presentation at work and I want my And that fact is if we want to remain Now to let my colleagues know that this my final point, I'm going to add Ultimately, if we want to remain So now you have 50 plus transition ideas in a very professional and organized way. Before you go, let me share a bonus tip with you. You can use transition words to So let's take one idea. In general, our meetings are very productive. Now I can pick any category of transition word. To expand on this idea, I could add a contrast. However, they usually run over Now let me give an example of my last point For example, today our meeting was scheduled So let's expand on this even more. What was the effect of the meeting As a result, I was late for Hmm, Were there any other effects? If there were, I could use Transition Word Additionally, catch up so your bags are packed and Let's talk about all the phrases that you you're going to be using these restaurants or interact with service providers. Like when you rent a car or book a tour. You can simply say hello because when you don't know the person That's the standard greeting in these situations. You could also say hi there. So add there, hi there, hi there. When you go into a restaurant, a store, hi there. Of course you wouldn't wave. I'm just doing that. I guess you could. Hi there. Hello. Now time is specific. You could say good morning, Don't say good night because that's So after 4:00 to 6:00 PM, Now only for morning. Native speakers, we drop the good and we just You always say. Good afternoon, good evening. But you can simply say morning, morning. Now after your greeting, you can So if you're at a restaurant, We have a reservation under Forest. Usually the reservations are made You could include the time, but you don't need Or you could approach a Could you please tell me when the Notice how I use Could you please? That's to sound more polite. Now don't worry about taking notes because You can look in the description for the link. How about this one? Excuse me, do you carry sunscreen? Do you carry? You're asking the store if they Now notice, excuse me, this but it's what we use to get someone's attention. So if the store person is stalking and then they will stop what So it's used to get attention. Now. Technically, you can say, pardon me, But pardon me isn't very common In North America we use pardon me So if someones talking to me and maybe I might say pardon me to ask But we don't really use it So just use excuse me to get someone's attention. Now let's review all the phrases you or if you don't hear them because Or maybe they just spoke very quietly. Like I said, pardon me, pardon me. Now you can also say excuse me, but Excuse me, sorry, I didn't catch that. Now you can always say sorry, So you're giving them? The. Information they need to know so they can adjust. Because if you tell a native speaker, oh naturally just try to speak slower or louder And don't be afraid to say can The person will not be offended So don't be afraid to use it. Or you can say sorry. I'm not sure what MMM means that means or I'm not sure what a transfer means. Can you explain it a different way? Can you give me more information? Can you help me understand? Or simply you can say sorry I don't understand, naturally know they need to speak slower, Can you repeat that please? I'm sorry, I didn't catch that. As a tourist, you're going to be spending money at when you go into a store or when you When you're ready to pay, you can just say Now previously the stores would ask you cash or Today. It's assumed you're going so they generally don't ask They will probably just point at the Cash credit. Now there are some St. vendors. A street vendor would be a small shop or It is possible that they only accept cash, Basically everywhere you go in North Even the smallest St. vendors, because they have a little device turns into a payment processor and So even at very small vendors, but of course bring a little cash with you. You can ask how much is this for one item? How much are these for two or more items Now after They might say need a bag or simply bag with Plastic bags are not used at They are banned for environmental most likely you have to pay for that bag. Instead of plastic stores use paper bags Or you can get a reusable bag A lot of smaller stores, convenience stores, markets, they still use plastic bags, But you can always ask them, Or I need to buy a bag Now sometimes to buy a bag and they put please But that is not common in North So put please at the end I Please commonly comes at the So you're giving an instruction. Please put the receipt in the bag. Put the receipt in the bag is the instruction and you can add please at the You could also add it at the end after you pay. They might say do you need want a receipt? Again to try to be more They don't automatically print receipts. They might just say need a You can say no, that's Now right before you pay. They might say something really They may be asking you for a Do you want to donate $1.00 They might ask you if you have a points Or they might ask you if you want to sign up for something like a Walmart MasterCard If you don't understand, just say no thanks, No thanks, because they're probably just Now if you go into a clothing they will greet you and they'll ask you You can say I'm just looking, I'm just browsing. But in North America, looking is more common. I'm just looking. Thanks. Thanks, I'm just browsing. Oh, I'm just looking. Thanks. Or if you are looking for something specific, Where can I find men's socks? Do you carry sunglasses? If you're buying clothing, you Where are the fitting rooms, the changing You can also ask them what's your return policy Now let's talk about dining out at restaurants. When you go to a restaurant, Hello. Hi there. Good afternoon. Table for two, please. Or you can state we have a reservation under and then your name, generally just Or maybe you want to make a reservation. Can we make a reservation? And they'll ask you when or what Table for two please. Now, if you're staying at the restaurant, you Do you have any tables on the patios? So they mean the same thing. The patio or outside is an area that is outside. So you have inside or outside. Outside is on the patio. And if you're inside and you see you can say, can we sit by the window, please? Are there any booths available? So maybe they're putting you at a table with Just ask them are there any booths available? If you have any allergies, you can tell your Or maybe you see an item, a stir fry can you make that vegetarian? Can you make that vegan? Can you make that gluten free? To order just say all have. I'll have the stir fry with shrimp please. Alternatively, I'd like I'd like but all have is way more common now. You may want to modify your order. I'll have the stir fry with shrimp please. But no onions. Hold the onions without onions. They all mean the same thing. Can you add Pickles? So if you want something Can you make it extra spicy? This is something my husband asks every time. Can you make it extra spicy? Can you put the sauce on the side? So maybe if they put a sauce over Sauce on the side again please. Just know that modifying your accepted in North America, so don't be shy. If you want something specific, just ask. They will do it for you. And don't forget to ask for water because as Can you bring us some water please? They might ask you sparkling or Tap water is fine. Sometimes the restaurants try to but it's the water that comes out of the tap So if you don't want to pay for water, just say tap water is fine and know that water You can go into any place You might ask them where are Either word choice is fine. Where are the bathrooms? Where are the restrooms? Just don't say where are the toilets because Now if you had a big meal and you didn't finish at And they'll bring you a box and you put your Can I have A to go box, please? Or you can say, can you wrap this up? So they will take your food, put it in Can you wrap this up? Can you pack this up? They mean the same thing if they try to offer Say just the check please. You can say check or bill. Just the check please. Just the bill please. Can you bring me the check or bill please? Or you can simply ask where do I pay? Just the check please. Where do I? Pay it's $25.00 right in North America. Tips. Gratuity are rarely added to the bill When you pay. There'll be an option on the machine. It's not required, but it is highly on the formality of the restaurant But again, it isn't required. Now at any restaurant, cafe or store Or is there? Wi-Fi here, and if you know there's you can ask them what's the Wi-Fi password. Now, sometimes the Wi-Fi passwords are just you didn't hear it, you couldn't understand it. You can just give them your phone. Can you put it in for me, please? Can you write it down, please? Can you repeat that slowly, please? Now, let's talk about getting around. So how you move from one location to another. You don't really need to know how to your phone has GPS and will But let me share some common phrases with you. Excuse me, do you know how to Excuse me, which way is Central Park? Excuse me, does this train go to Central Park? Excuse me, which train will And noticed I used excuse me is the most common standard in North You could also say, excuse me, Because that is the one thing that people still But excuse me, do you mind? Do you mind taking with that ING? Do you mind taking our for photo? Excuse me, could you please take our picture so And as a final tip before you pack your bags and America is incredibly diverse and we interact Every time we leave the. House. We go to stores, restaurants, our work We interact with non-native English speakers. N Americans in general are friendly, open and or shyness because you have an It will not impact your experience you do need to be able to communicate in and all of these phrases You might be preparing for a So now let me share 30 advanced phrases that you Of course, on the IELTS, they're You can say I was born and raised in Winnipeg. That's where I was born and raised. Did you know that I was born and raised to be So of course you need to conjugate it in the I was born and raised in and then you Now don't worry about taking notes because You can look in the description for the link. You can add on to this to make it sound more I was born and raised in Winnipeg but now? But now I live in Ottawa. Go even further and say I've Notice I used the present perfect. You can also use the present perfect continuous And this is for an action that started So in the present perfect continuous, You can use 4 plus the specific number of years. You can even say four years, several All of those are possibilities. Now let's move on to tell me about your work. You can say I'm an engineer. I know this is a very simple sentence, but most students get it wrong You must use an article before your job title. Most likely you're going to use a or an, This is when there is only one position in the For example, I'm the executive director, so there's only one executive Now if we use the it's more common to explain But if you include just your job title with But if you use the make sure Now add to this and add a general Being an engineer is rewarding. Notice here being starts the sentence Jaron statements will absolutely You could say I love using my analytical Love is a verb of preference, so you need Love using. You could say I enjoy collaborating with my team. Enjoy is a verb, a preference, I enjoy collaborating with unique solutions to complex problems. So sure, you could say brainstorming solutions to problems, but adding adjectives You just mentioned something Why not make a contrasting However, this is a transition word and using transition words will However, being an engineer So before we had positives however, and now a negative about So now you can share one of those challenges, specifically another transition Specifically, I work around the To work around the clock is an expression, and using expressions really shows you understand And of course, to work around the clock, You work non-stop. Now let's talk about hobbies. You can begin with a gerund statement In my opinion, having hobbies is So our Jaron statement is But then I just added on to So let's review some opinion words. Of course, in my opinion, in my view, from my personally, I think that have at You can use these for in your Now let's get back to hobbies. You made your general statement, your Jaron Now you can state your specific hobby. I'm an avid hiker, or maybe I'm tennis player, whatever your hobby is. So here the structure is to be an this means you have a strong interest, Now you can make a gerund statement Hiking gives me the opportunity to disconnect Now notice that the jaron statement You can also start a jaron statement Guitar gives me the opportunity So you're using the verb form Both are correct. Now let's say you don't have any hobbies. Don't worry, you can still answer You can say until now my However, I'm considering taking up and So notice we have our present perfect. My focus has been because the action Take up is the phrasal verb we use specifically with hobbies and activities Consider plus gerund. I'm considering that's in the present continuous. I'm considering taking up take is in You could also say, however, The expression here is I would Perhaps it's simpler to remember so feel free to use this alternative. Now you can still. Add on a gerund statement about Simple because you're not Drawing will give me the You could say I'm confident that or I'm hopeful that drawing will give me the You will sound very advanced. Now let's move on to. Tell. Me about your family. You can say I'm from a close Notice that pronunciation close knit. This is an adjective that describes the family. Now this is the same as saying My family and I, this is the subject. We, my family and I are very close. You can say everyone in my family gets along Everyone gets along really well or used Here's a great expression. Everyone says I take after my mom in looks When you take after someone, it means So if you have a photo of you oh, I see the similarities, you take first and maybe your mom takes But for personality, you can use this as well. So maybe your dad is very So you take after your dad in personality. A great phrasal verb to use on Now let's move on to talking about travel. You can say I'd love, I would love, to travel to notice, travel to So know when certain verbs Travel to a location, visit a location. If I could travel anywhere, I'd choose Egypt. This is our second conditional And notice we have modal plus base verb. Don't use the infinitive modal plus base verb. Of course you can use a gerund statement. Visiting Egypt is at the top of my list. Imagine you have a list of places you You can make this more advanced Travelling to Egypt has been at the top An action that started in the Now, why not use an opinion word? From my perspective, the pyramids are So you're sharing an opinion that You can go on and say, and I'd revel in, I'd revel The expression is to revel in the opportunity This is a very advanced way of saying I Now, as a bonus, let me share some phrases that So you're answering and you realize that You can say what I'm trying to say is You can express your thought a different way. What I mean is what I'm getting at is. What I'm trying to get at in other words, and then I suggest memorizing four of these because they will be very helpful when Are you enjoying this lesson? If you are, then I want to tell you This is my premium training program where the movies, YouTube and the news. So you can improve your listening vocabulary with natural expressions, Plus. You'll have me. As your personal coach, you can look learn more or you can go to my website Now let's continue with our lesson. Are you ready to add 50 plus vocabulary that you can use when you're Let's get started with the first Tell me about yourself. When you're asked this question, you I have more than over or And then you can add as A and your job title, Don't forget that article. It's very important that it's there. Before your job. Title. Now you can also talk about your I have almost 20 years of experience I have more than 15 years of experience. In the IT sector, so you can Now notice you have more than or greater than and then you have almost, So if you actually have 13 or it sounds better to use a round Number like 15. So you can say almost 15 years of Now you can add to this and tell us more So you can say in this role, which is your you can also say in that role, it doesn't Or you can say I am responsible for was and I am responsible for if you're currently Now after this, we need a gerund verb. So you can use many many Your. Experience. These are the most common I was responsible for managing, overseeing, reviewing, improving, streamlining, and analyzing. Of course, you can use other verbs, Now streamlining. This means improving the So as a financial analyst, you of experience as a financial In this role, I'm responsible for overseeing a team of 15 people and I'm responsible Now, in a job interview, you absolutely want You don't want to say I have a lot of experience. That doesn't sound very strong or convincing. It sounds a lot more impressive if I have significant experience. So those are two must know adjectives that and significant, which simply is a more formal way And again, after this, you need a gerund verb. You can use any of the verbs I've already shared. And of course you'll have specific verbs for I have extensive experience creating international Now after this expression, I have You could also use a noun. I have significant project management experience. I have significant financial analysis experience. So you don't have to use a gerund verb. You could also use a noun. If you're asked about your you can simply say I have a Bachelor a Bachelor of Arts, a Bachelor of Now you can end it there, but you School. And the year you graduated, those aren't or well known school or you recently graduated, I have a Bachelor of Science from Cornell. I graduated in 2020. You could also use the verbs received or However, it's extremely I have a bachelor, I have a master, but you can absolutely use received or I received my Master of Education from Cornell IN2020I obtained my Master of If your credential is a certification, you can use I completed my PMP in 2019. Now notice here I use an acronym PMP if I'm applying for a job in the They know what a PMP is. It's the most prestigious It stands for Project Management Professional. So there's no need to identify an acronym if that Let's talk about your personal strengths. The interviewer is likely going to What would you say are your three best qualities? So here you can use a transition As for my strengths, that's As for my strengths, I'm extremely Now notice here I use the adjective extremely. This is a more convincing You want to avoid those common And it's way more convincing to use a Like extremely. I'm extremely hard working, which sounds Let's review some common adjectives that you're you're going to use the verb to I'm extremely hard working, committed, trustworthy, honest, A. Team player. For a team player, you can't use an adjective. You're. Simply going to say I'm a team I'm extremely team player that Now let's talk about some specific skills Now the following skills are rated as Of course, this skills are specific to as a general list of skills that would be And to talk about these skills. You can say I have and for an adjective you can say I have advanced, I have And then you list the skill. I have excellent time management skills. I have superior communication skills. I have advanced adaptability skills. The other top ten skills are problem leadership, interpersonal skills, For work ethic, we have a very I have a strong work ethic. So this is the specific expression for work ethic. I have a strong work ethic. So let's say you want to show I have superior communication skills. Now let's say the interviewer wants to know why You could say I'm looking for an opportunity So your project management your financial analysis skills, You could also say I'm looking for in and then you can talk about a In the IT industry, in the project You should absolutely have a conclusion. Don't just say thank you for your time. You should leave them with a really and your ability to complete the job So you can say I believe that. I know that I'm confident that skills would make me a valuable your organization, and I look forward to Of course, you should take this and adapt but you absolutely want a strong conclusion So now you have 50 plus advanced English expressions that you can use I want you to practice in the comments Tell me about yourself and try to use as many I can't wait to learn a little bit more Let's keep going and you're going to learn 25 professional phrases that you Our first phrase, I'm on board with that. This is used when you agree support for a suggestion or an idea, for example. We're on board. We are the verb to be. We're on board with that preposition with. We're on board with the new And don't forget to conjugate that verb to I'm on board. Next, are we on the same page? This is used to confirm that everyone has the After our discussion, it seems We all have the same opinion, And to specify what that something is you can Don't worry about taking notes because I You can find the link in the description next. It's a win win situation. This is a situation where all parties benefit. All parties win. I could say subscribing to J Forest I win by growing my YouTube channel and you win by getting all of these free video So put win, win, win, win, put, It's a win, win. Our next phrase, I could ask This is used to request You can identify something specific and say what Remember, you can replace the noun, the new Next, we need to think outside the box. Have you heard this one? To think outside the box? This is to encourage creative If you're trying to solve a difficult problem, you might say thinking outside the box You need innovative, creative solutions. Everybody start thinking outside the box. Next, I love this one. Let's circle back to that later. When you circle back to something, and you suggest that you discuss it later. So you postpone your discussion until later. You could say we only have 10 minutes Whatever this is, your discussion about the Let's circle back to this later. Let's postpone it now and discuss it later. Notice the grammar. This is in the imperative. It's often the case because we use Let's circle back to Dina, our next phrase. We need to prioritize our tasks. If you prioritize something, it means you So the most important or the most urgent Because it's prioritized, it's the most important. This is a. Common situation, we don't have so let's prioritize our tasks. I love this one. Please keep me in the loop. Do you know this one? Native speakers love using it. This is used to. Request that information or I could say I'm taking tomorrow off, but Notice grammatically this I'm giving you an instruction or a suggestion. You can add please at the beginning or the Well good, keep me in the loop on that. Next, have they ironed out the details? This is used to ask if something For example, we need to iron out meeting and notice that pronunciation in the past. Simple iron doubt ironed out. Ironed out phrase 10. I'm all ears. This is used to express your I could say. If you have any suggestions for improving I'm open and willing to And that is 100% true. So please share your suggestions in the comments. I'm all ears. Next, let's take a step back. This is when you pause to Our marketing campaign didn't work. Let's take a step back. Let's pause what we're doing, working on the marketing campaign to review Let's take a step back. Notice this is also in the imperative This is a great one. I beg to differ. I beg to differ. Use this when you disagree with Your coworker could say the work because we didn't think outside the box. You could say I beg to differ, I beg to differ. The campaign was great, it I beg to differ. Next, I'll cut to the chase. This is when you. Say your main point directly, without For example, I'll cut to the chase, Notice grammatically, the I will cut to the chase. I'll cut to the chase. Even though the information I'll cut to the chase, you're This is a great one. Run it by the team first. This is when you share ideas I think it's a great idea, but You should share it with Frank And why should you do that? Because our next phrase, Frank calls the shots. This is to say that someone is in charge. They have the authority to make decisions. You should run your idea by Notice it's the shots. It's always plural. I called it shots. Our next phrase? The balls in Frank's court, this is used to say it's someone else's In this case. Frank, maybe you're talking to your Co workers as our English teacher and you don't want to in your court to give responsibility Remember to conjugate the verb to be The ball is in your court. The balls in your court. Next, we need to nip this in the bud. This is an important one because it's when before it becomes permanent or more serious. Let's say you have a new policy for a dress code, but none of the new employees So that's the problem, and you want You want to nip it in the bud. Grammatically, the verb is nip and to You need to nip. This in the bud. This is a great one. It's not my cup of tea. Do you know this one? This is used to say that you dislike something. Public speaking is not my cup of tea, And remember, there are two correct contractions. It isn't. It's not. You can use either one. They hammered out the agreement. This is used to say that something Have you hammered out the terms yet? This is commonly used with Freeze 20. We're swamped right now. Doctor Kettner. We're swamped. This is to say, you're really busy. We've been swamped since Vanessa quit. The expression is too be swamped, so your verb is Next, we'll take that into consideration. This is to say you'll. Consider something you'll consider someones Now, because I'm all ears, you You said Jennifer I think you should I could say thanks for your suggestion, We need to think long term. This is used to emphasize the importance of considering future I could say publishing videos three but I need to think long term. Is that sustainable for me? All become very swamped very quickly. Nice. Sorry I'm tied up. This means you're busy and therefore unavailable. You could say. I wish I could help you, but I'm tied up. I'm already busy with something Now you can specify the something I'm tied up with the budget phrase 24. Let's put our heads together. This is used to suggest brainstorming, or more than one opinion. Because the opinion is in your head and if you put heads together then you If we put our heads together, I know we can nip. This in the bud and. Finally, freeze 25. To play devil's advocate, this is when you consider opposing I could say I think 3 videos per day is too much So now I'm going to think about publishing would take, what my day would be And that will help me make my decision. Of course, it's very common to Now, instead of saying I think, let me First of all, there's nothing I say it all the time, but I have many other And my choice depends on the situation I'm in. So let me share all the different First, let's talk about everyday situations. Let's take the statement it's going say, I'd say it's going to rain. I'd say this is a contraction of I would, I would I'd say it's going to rain. You can add to that and say if you They're exactly the same. It's just something nice we add on. I believe is going to rain. This is the closest alternative to It seems to me that the way I All three are used to really My close friend always says I I personally don't say I reckon, I prepared a free lesson PDF that this lesson, so you can find that in the Now you can also say it's That's my take on it. This is a very common expression. My take on it. Take is your assessment, That's my take on it. So you first share your opinion or You can do the same thing with the idiom. That's my two cents. Two cents that represents That's my two cents. Now let me share some more formal expressions a conference, a work meeting Let's say your opinion is Revise means make changes too. We should revise the report. Of course, you can say I think You could also say from my perspective, It sounds quite advanced from my Of course, you can simply say, in my opinion, And that does sound more formal than saying, I think you could say it's my view Or it appears to me that we Keep in mind the word that is optional. We generally use it in written English and we generally exclude it in spoken So you could say it appears to or it appears to me that we Both of these are correct. Let's talk about some expressions Certainty 100%. So let's take our statement. We should promote John. Lucky John. Now if you're 100% certain, you I'm positive, we should promote John. You could say it's obvious You could replace obvious with indisputable, It's indisputable that we should promote. John, that sounds very firm. I like that one. Indisputable. It's undeniable. It's unquestionable. It's beyond a doubt. We should promote John. John must be really awesome. Now let's say that you do want to So it could happen, but maybe it won't happen. You could say it's possible that Instead of possible, you could say it's probable I figure or I gather that she's One I really like is I have a hunch. I have a hunch that she's When you have a hunch, it's more based on I have a hunch that she's I just have this really good feeling. You could say, correct me if I'm wrong, But if you say correct me if I'm wrong, You could also say, if I'm not mistaken, Again, there's some doubt there You could say, to the best of my knowledge, to the best of my knowledge, Let's talk about some expressions So diplomatic because you might people don't agree with or that is the So maybe all your Co workers think that So our statement is John isn't a good. Fit. He isn't a good fit. To be honest In all honesty, Now remember, this is something that so you might want to say it with some regret. To be honest, in all honesty, I'm sorry to say it, but John isn't a good fit. If you want to be more neutral, you could say Everyone else is saying he is. So you want to be more neutral One could argue that my impression I saved my favorite for last get what you're saying, but John isn't a good fit. Now in this case, get means understand. So if you want to be more casual informal use get. I get what you're saying, If you want to be more formal, you can But. John isn't a good fit. Let's move on and learn 30 ways First, let's talk about some casual expressions Let's take the example of bumping into someone So instead of saying I'm sorry, I know it's a subtle difference, but it will really help you sound You can also add so or very in front of it. So sorry, very sorry. Or you could say sorry about bumping into the person at the grocery store. Sorry about that. So sorry about that. I'm so sorry about that. To help you remember all of these You can look in the description link to download the free lesson PDF. Another common thing is simply Oops, oops, whoops. Oh no. Oh my. And then you don't even have to say anything Oops. Oh, oopsie, oopsie. Oopsie, Yikes. Whoops. Oops. A slightly more formal one, is to say, excuse me or pardon Those are quite common as well. Let's say that your friend asked you but you bought her an oatmeal cookie. So instead of saying I'm sorry, This is extremely common in North America and it will really make you sound My bad, my bad. Keep in mind it is quite casual and it's used for smaller things you want to apologize My bad. You could also say my fault, My mistake, I got you the wrong cookie. My bad. Let's say you want to admit your mistake. For example, you told your friend the party You could say I was wrong. So instead of saying I'm sorry I gave you Of course, you can use any My bad. But one, to specifically admit your Often we say sorry if we can't do So let's say your friend invited It would be very common to say I'm Instead of saying I'm sorry, you I'm sorry with unfortunately, Unfortunately, I can't attend your party. Unfortunately, I can't drive you to the airport. Now let's talk about some more you can use in the workplace Let's say you arrive to an Instead of saying I'm sorry, Now you can expand that and say To make it stronger, you can add sincere, To sound even more formal, you could Please accept my sincere apologies for being late. That sounds very formal. Let's say you made a mistake at But you should have ordered ordered ten boxes. Now in the casual example, we learned I In a professional context, I This sounds very professional because the I take full responsibility for My sincere apologies. And I take full responsibility. You could also say, I understand Now instead of understand, you I admit I made a mistake, I'll fix it. So notice you're not just admitting I'll fix it. I'll call the supplier right now. I'll get. This resolved. So offering a solution is a great Let's say that you kept a client Now instead of saying I'm sorry for the So instead of talking about the negative which is the fact that your client is patient. I appreciate your patience. Thank you for your patience. Thank you for understanding, I appreciate your time. I appreciate your patience. Now, let's say that your boss, your coworker, or your client offers you So they tell you about something Maybe your last presentation you some constructive criticism, some feedback. Instead of saying I'm sorry my presentation wasn't to my attention or thank you for letting I'll work on that, I'll improve that. Or you can even ask them how can I improve? Can you give me some suggestions to improve? Thank you. For bringing this to my attention. There's one common idiom that you So remember in the casual In the professional example you The idiom that you can use in any situation is This simply means I was wrong The buck stops with me. Native speakers love using idioms, will help you understand native So now you're going to learn 50 common A blessing in disguise. This is when something a situation but it results in something So let's say you get fired from your job. Obviously that seems bad, maybe even unlucky, It pays better, you have a better boss, Everything about this job is better. You can say getting fired My new job is so much better. A dime a dozen. This is used to describe something So you can say tech startups in They're very common, they're everywhere, Everyone's a tech startup in Silicon Valley, This is when you avoid saying what you So let's say. Hey, you want to end your romantic Your friend could tell you. Don't beat around the Bush. Be direct and tell that Better late than never. So let's say you've been working finally got your first promotion after 10 years. And you're telling your friend this and you're a little annoyed because But your friend could say better late it took ten years, but it's better Better late than never to bite the bullet. I love this idiom. This is when you force yourself to do something difficult or unpleasant because Inevitable means eventually you have to do it. So why not bite the bullet and do it now? For example, just bite the bullet Break a leg. This is a very common idiom that we use to say. Good luck, Good luck. Break a leg, but we especially use this most commonly a theatrical performance. But when you're going for a job Or when you're doing your speaking exam So before your speaking exam, your friend, your partner could say break a leg, When you call it a day, it means usually because time is up or because you've done For example, it's getting late. Let's call it a day. Let's call it a day. So that means you can go home So let's say there's this Co worker every day and not doing a very good job at work. They seem very distracted. They're not working very hard. They're not contributing. But that person's dad just died. So you might say, let's cut him some slack. His dad just died, so you're not going to To be glad to see the back happy that somebody has left So let's say it's Jane's last day at work. She quit. She has a new job. You didn't like Jane, you can say. I'm glad to see the back of Jane to This is a compliment used to say that something, usually technology or an invention, is So you could give me a compliment and say this YouTube channel is the best If you think that's true, There are plenty of fish in the sea. So let's say your friend went on a date and she says Pierre hasn't called me You can encourage your there are plenty of fish in This is used to say that an event will So let's say tomorrow is a vacation day for you, But you might say I'm taking the day off This is when you do something or fastest way, but by omitting So you might say we felt pressured to cut corners because of the tight deadline So your parents might say to you or you're 30 and you still live at You need to get your act together. You need to organize yourself so you can Get your act together to break the ice. This is such an important one because this is used more comfortable around each other, especially Let's break the ice by introducing ourselves and Clear as mud. This is used to say that something So if somebody gave you instructions but at all and they ask you, so is everything OK? Do you understand? You can say clear as mud. Which tells the person. You do not understand at all. Crystal clear. Something is very clear and easy to understand. His instructions were crystal This is when you do or say something that Don't rock the boat until So don't say anything that could upset until we sign the deal and then you can cause This is another way of saying means you no longer have control over a situation. You could say the party got out of hand, which The party got out of hand and A bad apple. This is used to describe a bad You could say there are a few To cut to the chase, this is most important points of a subject or topic. So if you're running out of time in the in a So I'll cut to the chase. I'll only say the most important This is used when something is So if it's pouring rain outside, you An umbrella would be very useful in this This is when you waste time trying to recreate So let's say you ask your boss, should I And your boss suggests using It's already created and your boss can add. Don't reinvent the wheel. So we often use this idiom in When you go with the flow, it means that you do what other people are doing or you The majority. So let's say you're having a company dinner but the majority of people say they want pizza. So you can go with the flow and because that's what the majority This is when you do something that He's skating on thin ice by lying to his wife. It involves risk, it's dangerous, don't do it. A silver lining, this is something positive So the pandemic is negative, right? But is there anything positive? A silver lining, maybe we could say 1 silver realize how important our relationships are This is somebody who likes eating So if people offer me dessert, generally So I could say no thank you. I don't have a sweet tooth, which To go Dutch, this is when you agree to share So let's say you're having dinner with a friend, family member, even a romantic partner, You could say no, no, no, let's go Dutch. Which means you're going to divide This is when you have just enough You might say with food prices increasing, This is when something, usually a person, So let's say you're having a conversation have you met Fred from accounting and you're That doesn't ring a bell. The tip of the iceberg This is used to These small local protests are just. The. Tip of the iceberg to blow off steam. This is when you say or do something that helps you release strong feelings or After our fight, I went for So when you were on that walk, you were able A piece of cake. This is something that was extremely easy. That exam was a piece of cake. To be out of the woods. This is when you no longer Our profits are increasing, but we're not This is when you recover from an illness. It took me two weeks to get over This is used to describe a type Thanks for the invite, but I don't like that category This means to be rich, to have a lot of money. I just found out my cousins loaded This is to stop something before it has We need to nip these rumors in the bud before When something happens out of the blue, it My boss gave me a promotion out of How awesome is that to keep one's chin up? This is to remain cheerful in a difficult we tend to put our chin down, but when For example, I know the economy seems bad, but This is when you try to finish a I raced against the clock to finish the audit and This is when you surprise they weren't expecting or weren't prepared for. The politician was caught off To be on ones radar. If something is on your radar, it means you're considering it or You could say leaving the It's not even something I'm considering This is to betray someone to do something She told the client she did I can't believe she stabbed me in the back This is when you move quickly So let's say you're at a wedding or a conference and they're about to serve Everyone made a bee line for the food. They went quickly and directly to the food. To be in hot water. This is when you're in a situation where The politicians in hot water after To be dressed to the nines. This is when you're dressed We dressed to the nines for So you usually dress to the nines for a special This is when you're in a difficult situation If I accept the promotion, then I'll my partner, won't come with me. So I either accept the promotion that I or I stay with Matt and I don't get the promotion. I'm between a rock and a hard place. It's a difficult situation. It's a difficult decision. Lo and behold, this is an expression used I was on vacation in Japan, and lo and So it's very surprising that I see my childhood Lo and behold. And finally #50 to let the cat out of the bag. This is when you accidentally reveal a secret. So let's say you're planning or husband or friend, and they know about it. You might say you know about the party, don't you? Who let the cat out of the bag? Who? Told. You who revealed the secret, Now you're going to learn 24 use every day to sound more fluent and natural. To understand native speakers, you also known as colloquialisms, And today you're going to learn 24 colloquial. Words. That you need to know. Welcome back to J Force English. Of course, I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. Colloquial English, also known as colloquialisms, is simply informal language This includes phrases, idioms and expressions. And you can use these with and even your colleagues and boss as a warning. Just know that these may or may not be It depends on the specific situation. How does this compare to slang? Well, slang is very informal speech and slang is often viewed as What you'll learn today is And I summarize everything in a free lesson PDF. So don't worry about taking Do you know this one? You should because to hit the Say I have a big test tomorrow, so I need to hit the books by watching more of my If you agree, put let's do In the comments below, pick. The box. Well, time to hit the books. And #2 is let's do it to do something. This is a casual, friendly way But native speakers use this I could ask you, Are you ready to leave? And then you say, yes, I'm ready. So I say let's do it, which means let's leave. Let's complete that action, let's do it. So let's practice this. Do you want me to teach you the next expression? If you do again, put let's do it. Let's do it. Put let's do it in the comments. Let's do it, let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. #3 Yup. Or yuppers. Have you ever heard yuppers? Oh, this is a great one. Again, I can ask you, Are you ready to leave? And you can say, yes, I'm ready to leave. Or instead of Yas to sound more You can put it in a full sentence, Or you can just use that one word Yup, yuppers. And notice that S yuppers with an S. So again, question for you. Do you want me to keep teaching Put yuppers with that S Put If you do, yuppers. Yeppers #4 I'll see you at 8:00-ish. What time is 8:00-ish do you know? Adding ish to the time means around around To sound more professional, you can That's the more formal way to say Native speakers use this a lot. Will be there soon. Well, soon ish. This means in the near It's a little longer than soon. Just know that ish is not actually a word but You know this one right? This is used when you take Maybe you're in a meeting and your colleague Shouldn't it be from 2024? My bad, I'll change that ASAP. No worries my. Bad. Not bad. Our next one is, of course, no worries. You probably know this one. This means it's okay or don't worry about it. Native speakers often use this instead of. You're welcome, Jennifer. Thanks so much. For the new. Lesson. You might say that and I can reply to But we also use this to apologize. Maybe you're shopping and you accidentally and you can say oh I'm so sorry. And the person replies back Worries. No worries. No worries, no worries. Everything's all, no worries, no worries. #7 no big deal or no biggie. This also means it's OK, don't worry about it. No worries or it's not So again, if you're shopping and you shopping cart and you say oh I'm so sorry, This is often used after an of gratitude to Maybe you say, wow, Jennifer, it's so Remember, you can download I can reply back and say no big deal, no biggie. I'm letting you know that this wasn't a significant task for me to No big. Deal. No big deal, no biggie. No big deal. Number eight, 100%. This one is very trendy right now. She doesn't do her fair share of the work, 100%. This means I completely agree with you. I 100% agree with you. For pronunciation, native speakers You can also say 100%. Yeah, agreed 100%. Absolutely. Agree 100%. Number 9, I'm really into yoga. What about you? What are you into? To be into something. This is when you enjoy doing something. You have a strong interest in something. This question is commonly used when If you're on a first. Date you can ask the person replies back and says I love rebuilding cars. It's my passion. Just notice a verb a preference. Love is commonly used to reply to this question. So what about you? What are you into? You could say I'm really into Oh thanks so much. Notice that structure verb to be I am into, and If that describes you again, put let's do it. Let's keep learning. Let's do it. Put let's do it in the comments. Right now I'm into. Yoga. I'm really into fashion #10 let's Uber it. What does this? Mean this means let's take an Uber. Native speakers frequently A native speaker would commonly say I'll zoom you using them as verbs. Remember you have to conjugate the verb Last night we Ubered to the conference. Last night we took an Uber to the conference. I'll e-mail you the address. #11 that's wild. This is used to show surprise, A lot of Ubers won't accept my ride This is true. You can reply back and say that's That's wild. That's wild. #12 really with a question, really. This is also. Used to show surprise, amazement or astonishment. I don't get Uber eats, it won't come to my area. Also true. You can reply and say really? And you can even ah that's wild. Put them both together, really. Really. Really. #13 shoot, this means ask your question, Shoot. Ask me your question, Jennifer, can Yes, you can ask me your question Notice in the last one, shoot pronunciation. Oot. This one out. Shout, shoot, shout. This means call me or contact me. Give me a shout when you land. Give me a shout at 8:00-ish. Give him a shout. Give him a shout. If he pops out, give me a shout. #15 Can you flip me the invite? To flip means to send electronically. You flip someone something just Can you flip the team You can also flip something to someone. Same with send something to someone. Can you flip the invite something to the team? Someone #16 Now let's look at the invite. Can you flip me the invite? Invite is a shortened form of She invited the team to the party. An invitation is a noun. Have you sent out the invitations for the party? An invite is a noun. Have you sent out the invites for the party? Notice because it's a noun, it Have to send you an invite. I can send you an invite if you want. #17 I'll flip it to you in a SEC. In a SEC means in a second, Soon you can say I'll be there in a SEC. You can also get someones attention Do you have a small amount of time, I can reply back and say Yup You in a SEC? Wait a second, number 18. She's a newbie. A newbie is a new member of a team or a group. You might say, can you show She's a newbie. Or your boss might say keep an What about you? Are you a new member of this community? Have you recently subscribed If you have then put I'm a newbie I'm a I love newbies. I'm happy to have you. She's a total newbie. I'm a newbie. Sure, newbie. #19 My study routine is dialed in. To be dialed in means to be And here dialed in functions as an adjective. So is your study routine fully optimized? Perfected. If it is, you can say it's my If not, you can say I need 2 dial it in. In this case it's the verb. I need to dial it in. I need to perfect it, optimize it. How? Dialed in were you? #20 I'm crushing it. To crush something means to do a great job. So if you're enjoying this you're crushing it, you're doing a great job. Do you agree? If you do put crushing it, crushing This is a verb. So in the past, simple you would I did a great job. I'm crashing it. I'm really crushing it. Exactly. See, I'm crushing it. #21 I'm loving it. You probably recognize this because of McDonald's. McDonald's slogan is I'm loving Now this technically breaks an English So you would say I love this song even But McDonald's popularized this, and acceptable to say I'm loving this song. And by putting it in the present continuous, it I love it. I'm loving it. I'm loving it. I'm loving it. #22 Learning English is a piece of cake. You know this one right? To be a piece of cake means to be very easy. Maybe learning English is a piece of If you agree, you can say 100% so Of cake. Piece of cake. It's a piece of cake. It's a piece of cake. #23 we shot the breeze in the This is to make small talk so to have Notice those conjugations shoot, but in you might say, my neighbor When we take out the garbage, we see each We shoot the breeze and To be on fire. This means to perform well, to do a great job. I could say you just added 24 common You're on fire, so let's celebrate this. Put I'm on fire, I'm on fire. You just did an amazing job. Put I'm on fire in the comments. Congratulations, you just added Amazing job. Make sure you like this lesson, share you're notified every time I post a new lesson. And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And I have another master class I know you'll