Hey, guys, this is Toby Mathis with And I'm joined today by Trent Lee. Welcome. Trent. Thanks for having me. I appreciate it. Yeah, and this is going to be had a had And Trent. Trent, are you the largest by volume business broker or is that something that I just heard You know what? I hope you heard it because it's true. So good rumors get good gossip. So, yeah, there's a group called the eBay, Broker Association. They're like the governing body kind of like the realtor organization They track kind of what's going on, what's And there are guys who do a lot bigger I mean, there's some there's some But the last four years in a row, on the on the end of this year But the last four years in a row, broker in the country for deal volume, And I really want to hit on that like you could go out there and do You could go a whole bunch of, Sounds like you spend your time doing a lot of the smaller deals, Yeah. Is it Because it sounds like you're probably you've Yeah. So in one sense, yeah, absolutely. It is rewarding. It depends on the dynamics of the buyer Sometimes deals are smaller deals, They go quicker, they're cleaner. Sometimes, if the dynamic between buyer then sometimes it's like, man, that little deal was just as much work But I'll give you an example of So, in fact, let me just talk about some of the transactions Small deals. I've got a restaurant absentee owner. This guy lives in California, just to kind of check on things. Truly, one of those like absentee there's not a lot of most of them That one's in escrow And there's deals But I've got a really great trampoline In fact, two trampoline parks. And you would know I'm Trampoline Parks non franchise in escrow So that general range We do deals bigger than that Anything that might only sell for 60 or $70,000. I've sold plenty of those before. I do those make money. Like they do. Yeah. Yeah. Well. Maybe investing in the markets, this, that and the other. There's certain I remember Dairy Queen is always been like Right. But is pizza shop Yeah. So before I answer the question on, on that pizza shop, We had a Dairy Queen for sale. The buyer, the seller agreed on the price. They finished buyer finished the due with everything. The buyer went to Dairy the training And I thought to myself, the lever of I screamed, That failed the train, but it's. What is like the Peanut Buster Parfait. They kept putting cashews in it Well, I. Yeah, I don't know it. We've laughed about it ever, ever since. But to your question on the on the little There's no question about it. You get a small business like that In the next little bit, They sell for pretty low market multiples. So, yeah, they're making money. If a pizzeria sells for, it might be making 40 or $50,000 profit. But it's primarily generating that profit from an owner who's buying himself a job. Yeah. So they're going in there and working it. And so really maybe It pulls out 50 or 60 grand and. Yeah, they might take it as distribution You're your own boss, right? That's the thing. It's the American dream. You get a few of those and you're doing Yeah, yeah, absolutely. What's the you know, the $10,000 question how do you value a business? Do you have any rules of thumb that you use? Yes. So rules of thumb are like high level, You can kind of get a general idea And we can talk about this in detail. But what you really want to do So most business anyone in the M&amp;A basically where we can look up in the private market And those multiples change If someone's getting SBA financing, their tendency is to And then they could and the private market multiples come down a little bit and they're a little bit more savvy But an SBA small business Administration of a regular bank saying, hey, we got this Yeah, exactly. Exactly. And so most of these guys, myself and we look it up by the next code, You'll know this on the tax return, the business has some sort of industry For example, I'm working with a steel fabrication company right They've they're probably we had about We haven't taken them to market yet, And we look at other steel fabrication and we also make sure to compare it So we're not comparing it to a $150 but we're also not comparing it And so the goal is to find by industry and then narrow it down by size And just for people's understanding, is that of the EBIDTA or the net profit, Or is it the gross revenue regulated? What are you using when you're Yeah, good question. Let me if you don't mind, on on the three general rules of thumb at, we're looking at sellers And let me I'll tell you what because most business owners really don't they're not overly familiar Some are more familiar And that's a multiple, different multiple or the seller's And then we're looking at again, type of multiple or percentage How much percentage wise, And so that's what Shark Tank always does. You always see somebody sitting there and they go, see, And let me see what you're making, You know how much gotten out of that? You know they go down that. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. So let's let's just talk a little bit EBITDA, multiple, So traditionally, sellers well, First and foremost, when I get in, and I start talking with them I want to look at the last 3 to 5 year as well as 3 to 5 year The reason I want to look at that the financials, the stability So with COVID, obviously it's done What we're trying to do is normalize and just did awful during COVID. Other businesses had a really significant And what we're trying to do The expectation is COVID At least we hope it doesn't happen again. And so we're trying to normalize And so in order to do that, we're going to look at 3 to 5 years and then it's called We're going So I'll give you a couple examples here. Add backs would be owners wages that he's paying himself, We can add back the distributions, paying himself in distributions. If they're following Toby, maybe there's some family members from a tax standpoint that may or And so we made nonworking family members We need to add back and any other expenses discretionary to the business The business might be paying They might be paying for the owner's insurance, The the spouse might have a gas car that they're running running gas. Or a car for a. Car again. Yeah. Lower to lower my income last year they put it in the service Yeah. So, so all of those things are requested or adjusted to calculate seller's The easiest way to think about calculating is, for example, Toby, and you bought that business from me, that I'm running through the business that are to my benefit would go away And in fact, when you come in my wages How I'm depreciating My benefits to And so we're trying to take those out of that business and that that's what's that has a market multiple as well as EBIT earnings before interest Both of those have multiples and But in theory, So let me give you Let's say there's a business, I'm revenue. Let's say the there's $1,000,000 of sellers, discretionary earnings. There's $750,000 of EBITDA. And just a little side note there, sellers is always typically higher than EBIDTA because the easiest way to think about earnings is basically EBIDTA So let's let's call it earnings, $750,000 EBIDTA. And we do some market research. We look at the multiples. And again, Let's say the in the industry average in this type of business is a 3.5 multiple which is a valuation of 300 or 3.5 million or a call it And that puts the valuation at 3.75. Now we look up the market multiple these businesses are selling that that 58% of top line revenue, 6 So in theory, to measure a business, We're a 3.75 million So it's a general gut check to say, yeah, you know what, these all kind of match up And then we might take an average and come up with something But it's more of a sanity check to make and something's not significantly off So we've done three valuations. You have your ball, your ballpark, is there a ballpark number on the EBIDTA that you say, Hey, you know six or seven. Could be it sounds like a seven year You're basically getting back seven years, whatever that business Yeah, so, how to value your business in 5 minutes The real goal here is, is quickly calculate what And most business owners of a back of the napkin idea of what If your business is is under, call it $1,000,000 of of net profit, your multiples going to be somewhere where your business is is above that, 1 million to, You might be in that 5 to 8 range And then you get above that. That's when you start to hear, Someone paid a, you know, ten mil, It depends on the industry and it depends But that gives you a general range in 5 minutes or less calculate what Take us 3 to 5 multiple based on your your revenue And you'll get a pretty good indication And you could do that even with publicly it's kind of the P is if we took your net net profit spending and adding a back end but you can kind of say stock market's if I forget the number, But I've seen it 17 times. I've seen it get down into the ten times. You see the market Yeah. And those are those type of companies a significantly higher amount of revenue, You know, we're at ten and above easily not really dealing with sellers Those primarily do not have I mean, that because they've got very clean benefits going through those Yeah, but on, on a flip side, it just maybe something of interest Let's say now that they understand work to determine let's say they come up with the valuation you know, we said three and a half million And let's say, you know what their goal is They're closed. They're not quite there now that they understand how valuations all they have to do is do simple, backward if their goal is to sell it for 5 million instead of divide instead of multiply or even a times the market multiple, and that tells you or annual seller's Justify a $5 million valuation a pretty good roadmap to say, okay, here's Instead of blindly they can really quite simply back divide the my ideal sales And that's exactly what I need to be, what I need to show And you see that actually happening I wish I had a nickel I don't want to pay taxes and or, And I was like, If my intent to sell something, obviously that may not be in your best interest If you're if you need to get that could be a buzzkill, too, So there's always the way and here's something They they should understand Here's my multiple what, probably two or three years Yeah. Because the goal is we want to get, like I mentioned before, So one good year doesn't necessarily because we want to look at a weighted So one killer year doesn't make up We need to we need to even that out kind of 3 to 5 year period. Would you be willing to share some of your some of the success stories People hear so-and-so about a business. First off, I'm making a huge assumption probably had the same business get sold Yes, I have more than one. Okay. And then number two is they've ever seen somebody kind of build these things build another one, sell it, build And then that's that's instead of building. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. So I've got to tell you about Before we touch on that, let me go back to just one thing buyers. When they look at the valuation So now that they understand the, and I deal with this again, I can't tell you and I look at their financials I started to educate them on on what we're adding back, how we're looking for through their expenses And I come across the line item. This is a true story, more than one true And they say, oh, you know what? That on the PNL statement on the tax But that was our annual trip And it's you need to add it back. And I'm like, Oh, okay, so let's, let's because there are certain things certain things a little bit, But but let me just walk you the value So let's say let's call it If they're paying for simple math at a 25% they save themselves 20 $500 on taxes. But think about what they did If we use that five multiple, yeah, but they'd lost $50,000 in valuation for that company, So there's this dichotomy between minimizing expenses to minimize your taxes I mean, there's got to be a little bit Yeah, go ahead. Their misbehave Like if they're writing off The expense. Let's be real. But what we see the same thing all the time that they'll just be because they don't really have an account They just like, whatever they happen to be using Yeah. And they might have gotten away with it because they didn't But you got to think long term if the goal really is to sell totally a couple of years you want to show as much profit as you can ten times over Want to be somebody who's who's setting up We look at it differently from because there's 1202 stock hey, if you're going to hold it spending less than 10 million, If this business or selling a business, there's always that sort of stuff But then they behave much differently they're not in a rush They're gladly putting it into salary said, most buyers are going to say, And like unless they're negotiating a a non-compete you know, maybe an employment agreement, for three years or something. Then maybe it's relevant, but the small one to me, But a lot of these people, they're not Yeah, I was going to mention for two, three, $4 million or more, for some sort of an earnout or management Yeah. So that that is common on No, it's traditionally like hand-wash or three weeks Everyone kind of starts ways. And then to answer your question, multiple businesses a couple of times, there's one talking about pizzerias, there's one pizzeria that five times Come on you got to tell us about it. So one thing I've learned is buyers Yeah. You know, especially entrepreneurs. They they're like you and I at heart. You go on vacation for five or six days and you can't sit around the beach and And you're And so they sell their business. They think they want to play golf all day. And then after a couple of months, want to buy something. And so in this case. What do you got? I sold it. This was fine. Come on, I'm burning. I, I go. Yeah, and. And in this case, that pizzeria it was that exact example I saw. I mentioned before it it makes depend and what they're doing. 30 to 40, $45,000 a year profit. It it's profitable business. It's owned bought every single time a owner that's going to be working in it And sometimes people don't realize how much work restaurants are And in the end, in the case of two health issues, that the pizzeria was fine, It was exactly what they wanted. But one of them had unfortunately got sick and another one, And just it was And so it's a It's proven itself year after year. It's been there for, And it's changed hands, hands a bunch of times So for a small business owner for a little bit of a steady income, Are they buying it, buying the company trend or are they Are they buying the assets, Or some assets, and all the intangible assets, you know, the name, the reputation, Very rarely some type of a agreement. Or I'll give you an example. A couple of weeks ago, here in town to point one, And they had dozens of contracts And in that case, something like that of ease of transition. But most of the time, 99% of the time, these are asset transactions, kind of can limit buyer and seller And then I was going to tell you, people buying these companies and building them up and selling them. There's two people I can I've worked with over the years, It's essentially It's just a longer term play. So I had one guy here he is in the kind of a jiffy Meineke Lube, you know that that industry I sold him a meineke shop but because he he he knew it well. He knew the location, It's been a been a couple of years, and I sold it to him for 70 or $80,000. He kept it for two years, turned it around, And we sold it to it. We sold it for him for $430,000. Couple of years later, he completely And there's one other gentleman He's got to own 20 or 30 companies, He buys a company competent manager in place, so he gets a nice salary, incentivize them And you've got these companies And he lets let's see the individual. He identifies the operator So he'll sometimes come to me and say, I've identified my next operator, And then he'll, he'll put him in and, and he's got the right compensation plan So there's definitely an opportunity It's just a longer term play. Have you seen families do that where and they have kids they're trying to train and they don't want to just hand over So they're like, Hey, I'll buy a business kid too. Hey, you can run this one, kid three. Hey, Never seen anybody do that. I've seen parents I have not come across like parents And that's the family I need to meet because then I can find If they have ten kids, Great. Yeah. Yeah. But I do see plenty of parents In fact, I had one that's probably been about a year that he said basically gave the son Look, you can go and do your your car, pay for your college education, And we we sold them a business and, I don't know if that was the right It's not my, my, my spot to say, that I'm aware of. it was like, That one was a restaurant. Yeah, it's it's it's interesting. You see the different skills as people, his friends have sent him to college and some of to try to teach them buy them an actual business where they, or they're going to fail at, Yeah, at that one. I mean, doing something like that, to find some sort of industry can can kind of slide into it There's there's some In fact, I'll tell you another one They do. But you'll know this, Toby, here in Las Vegas, a lot of the neighborhoods And either a guard or most of them And you can look up and dial They manufactured the gates And a great, great company We're in escrow just to sell. Like I said this Friday, That would be a harder for someone to come in to Because I'll get people I have a little bit of money, What do you recommend? because my What's your background? I mean, some companies like that They require experience. And so I can't in good, let me tell you about this If they have no experience and that one's going to be tougher and be able to do to continue to grow You have to have some favorites, though, where you've said like, There's this like, oh my God, and figure out And they buy something they've, Is, are there any businesses Hey, anybody could do it you were surprised would have been capable and you're like, Yeah, boss, let me tell you I'll tell you about a couple who bought a little eyelash So, you know, the girls go in Head had several of those actually. Yeah. Now talk about that's not like contractual reoccurring revenue, because once the girls go on those eyelash And so they have And so you're hitting right in my heart. So these guys these guys have, I believe, five or six locations. Now, in addition to that, they set up a program with Hyatt Hotels where they have a partnership and they train these stay at home moms So they teach them how to from home do the eyelash extensions. But guess where they buy all these They got into the manufacturing side. So they have the retail side, they have the education side, And I mean, let me tell you, Millions of dollars in profit, I was I was blown away by by Wow. Yeah. No, know I was in the entrepreneur's organization years ago There was somebody who had a chain of a she didn't have to do a lot be straight up. And but she had all these everybody was going there a month or something like that Like, it was it wasn't a small amount of money that these folks, when they get hooked they showed it. Oh, yeah, yeah. It was it was great. And then unfortunate. I've seen the other I've seen the flip side where I'm like, a business? And, and some of them have been okay And I get the call when they bought a in This company does the I am going to blink on the term for all the indoor Is one I use one I have a I have a live in about 100 different separate plants And I always believe in light plants. But yeah, an interior garden place really. Exactly. And they service it. I know. I know exactly what you're talking about. So we I sold one. This is probably three years ago or so. So I mean, it's been long enough for I can kind of see how it's if carried out but we sold it And unfortunately, the the the buyer just and it was kind of one of those things not my spot to her, hey, I don't think But when they're really struggling you know, SBA documents, are you going And and unfortunately, And and they call me usually two hey, I need to sell it. And I look at the financials. I'm like, what happened here? This used to be a business Now it's it's not. You have to figure out And a lot of people get it And we see that all the time. I have ideas. They're doing it wrong and I'm like, Well, If you want to do wholesale changes, out of having the profit, Yeah, and that's one of the first things unless you really have experience what you're doing, Just get get familiar with everything, get you know, build your culture built. Let everything stay. And then you can start and improvements unless you really know, you know, immediately where there's issues and where there's problems lots of opportunities But first time buyers, don't rock the boat too much get It's your meineke guy. He already knows what his numbers are So he's looking at going, If you're good enough or if you're a restaurant tour here's what your food costs I was thinking tap or going in and yelling incorrectly and says, this is how many drinks But like, you know, he had the numbers in the back of his head bad management or bad inventory or bad But otherwise, like most of us, If I was trying to learn a business and You know, and there's there's lots of good for how to run businesses, And that's one thing in all the transactions I've done. It's very rare that I walk into a business and the business might be good But despite a decent sales business profitable business, where I walk into a business the seller is on it, They really have the systems and the procedures Again, small businesses, they don't even know necessarily is or how to begin to calculate it They don't have a database of past You know, the carpet cleaner from from job to job to job, but has done have any type of a program to return It's so it's often where I see a lot of business owners that they're leaving on the table I mean the MFA strategy, right, of in the business that they're not working I was just saying it that part of it is just grabbing. I'm better, but they're happy. They may be in the pizza shop grand and yeah, they could be making 100, but they're happy making pizzas they're happy and they're never going But they love making pie. Yeah. And the same thing applies to some business owners It's it's still a good, good that honestly, if you started increasing your number of leads and your conversion and your average lifetime each of these by just five or 10%, all sudden because it is these incremental changes but they're not necessarily to know how to measure it Well, there's some there's there's There is groups I keep thinking like we have a Spartan And I think it's like storage And they go out there They find anybody and they look and say, Hey, how much of How much is being used by the family, Let's get rid of the managers living Let's get rid of all the family stuff. We'll put the tack on it. Now we have saved on personnel cost and then they sell it and you get a multiple five, six, and they're like two years later, we can and then let's go find another one And it's always a small mom and pop where with, they're comfortable with, Yeah. And then you see the who's Marcus Lemonis You know. Marcus. Marcus, yeah. Yeah. The profit. I love that one. Yeah. Because you just described him. He comes in and he goes, Oh, but if I'm going to invest, I actually like that better than than a get in the business what sort of operational changes I do like that one a lot. Is this like how do we scale? How do we scale, You know, and that's I think everything that you said and just chitchatting. And this is always enlightening. And I've known Trent for years, so looking for a business, Call Trent and can put your head down. Is that he knows But but I think it helps somebody identify in their businesses. Like when we're looking at real estate Like trust your numbers. I have a stupid saying. I always say there's only three rules and anything financial planning You know and I beat it into people. It's like the numbers But that whenever I see those shows, I realize When you have somebody who's a numbers the numbers, this is what it feels like. They always used, And and I'm like, man, but the numbers Yeah. So if you're going to. You're going to need a guy like the same thing, which is Yeah, I can. And they're not going to pay I see that all the time. But Seller comes in and says, Man, If I if I put more time in my business it really could be something. And I'm like, Well, great, be, but we're not going to value it I mean, someone's going to pay someone's but they're not going to pay They're going to pay Yeah. Why would they pay you But if I did, it would be worth this. Fantastic. Do that for two years. Yeah. And then call me. Yeah, that's awesome. Speaking of calling it, Trent My email address is Trent at f c b dot com stands for first choice com and Toby as always it's been fun I appreciate it. Oh, And hopefully there's some people out Buy a business. I, I learned running a business like And I used to have a really good mentor, Businesses under a million to 10 million, which are different And you say, Oh, Because you run a Yeah, sometimes just When I wanted to work with clients, I opened up retail stores. I want to see what it's like to run them. To. Buy real estate. When I deal with real estate Lots of nuances. You do it. Yeah. So I think Trent could Right. And then if you build it up or you have second thoughts, That's. That's right. Probably you have a line right now what are we going to do with inflation? You got to get out there You can't just invested in something One of the few places Yeah, and that's one thing A good business properly And I think Warren Buffett Yeah. All right. Thanks, Chuck. Thanks. Have a good one.