(plane engine roaring) (performers singing) (plane engine roaring) (performers singing) (plane engine roaring) (audience clapping) (epic music) - I've been to many great air Paris Air Show, Farnborough but if you ask me &quot;What's the I would tell you it was an air show in North Korea five years ago. - During the festival, (plane engine roaring) - It feels like turning 50 (plane engine roaring) To enter North Korea by air, One is from China and (plane engine roaring) So in September 2016, about gathered at Beijing International Airport. We were boarding onto an Air Koryo is the national We're bound for Pyongyang, then we'll be transferred onto Wonsan to in the country, the Wonsan Air Show. (plane engine roaring) Air Koryo used the Tupolev 204, which is a modernised version comparable to a Boeing 757 or Airbus A321 from the external fuselage. (plane engine roaring) Air Koryo was also the Skytrax airline, but Is it really one star? Take a look at the service. Take a look at the food, the drink, the entertainment we had on board. (plane engine roaring) When we reached Pyongyang we were transferred across the Russian Soviet time (plane engine roaring) (passengers talking) Oh, full house. This is first. (Asian music) - [Flight Attendant] To and the speed is 520 kilometres per hour. For the safety of the flight-- (drowned out by plane engine roaring) - It was just amazing to at the back of the Tupolev 154. It was just a far cry from (plane engine roaring) And after 30 minutes of flying, we reach our final destination, Wonsan. We were one of the first at a brand new international and maybe for specifically Our group spend the rest of the day at the airport tarmac filming in the Air Koryo fleets that is coming in to participate for the (epic music) (camera shutters clicking) (plane engine roaring) (camera shutters clicking) (plane engine roaring) Now this is not aviation, but I felt this is really interesting and funny. We didn't spend in any tourist hotel, we were actually taken If you look at the room, all dressed in pink colour sheets, and I actually slept quite No complaints. For travellers, there are I personally use VPN to to found cheaper travel and Internet censorship is a huge that you couldn't access to your email or connect to social media, staying in touch with I use Surfshark VPN to to bypass the internet censorship. Even better, with just one you can access to many Netflix library. With Surfshark VPN there to found cheaper travel, cheaper and cheaper rental cars by For frequent traveller like wifi at the airport or in a When I want to send sensitive information such as banking credentials, to secure and encrypt my data. And here's the best deal for our viewers. Get Surfshark VPN at surfshark.com/Sam. Enter promote code Sam. You will not only get over 80% off, but also three additional months for free. This video is sponsored by Surfshark. (upbeat music) So the next day before we were actually taken to two All the tour guide accompanying binders and they're (upbeat music) As soon as we arrive at the air show, we saw this massive crowd. (crowd talking) - During the festival, including sizing fly over by of your own choice, enjoying and soiree, and tasting different brands of famous Korean beer. - (speaking in Korean) - I hope all the festival will have a great and memorable - (speaking in Korean) - Just right after the opening speech, the very first aeroplane is a 1969 Ilyushin 18. - [Translator] (speaking in Korean) (epic music) (plane engine roaring) What's interesting and is that this is not a they also combine military. It is very rare to see the North at least showing to the Western world. (plane engine roaring) So right after the Air Koryo Ilyushin 18, there's the Korean people's (plane engine roaring) (crowd clapping) - [Charles] And indeed, it in any other country. The whine of jet engines, the (crowd talking) - [Charles] Flags flapping, and the smell of cooked meat on the breeze. The pace of the display was impressive, with one aircraft displaying at the holding points, ready for takeoff, and the one after that starting We ask the organisers how they first ever air show and they and DVDs of Riyadh, Farnborough, and other famous events abroad. They did a fantastic job. (helicopters roaring) - The crowd are so excited a helicopter flying over And with all the music going it could be anywhere, but we are in North Korea. The airshow is in North (plane engine roaring) The afternoon was kicked off by another smashing hit, the MiG 21. A pair of female pilots (plane engine roaring) - (pilots speaking in Korean) - [Sam] And this was followed of a four engine Ilyushin 62. (plane engine roaring) And then there are Mil 17 (plane engine roaring) And when they pass by, you It smells great. It is raw aviation, mega fun. (plane engine roaring) - [Charles] The air into North Korean life as been allowed to mix with locals before, but we were free to roam in the crowd of 20,000 North Koreans. I was impressed by the clothing, soft furnishing, toys, showing a degree of commerce not usually apparent. (crowd talking) - And this is a great we are actually allowed to mingle freely with the North Koreans because normally your tour and the local people. You were not able to in any other places, so Of course, they were not able so we can only use simple and a smile, international diplomacy. What really impressed me is on day one, there was a walking in the dark, going back home. Of course we were privileged westerner. We were on the bus, but of people walking on the it was incredible. And that night, there in the local theatre, showcasing (performers singing) (crowd clapping) (Asian music) (crowd clapping and speaking Korean) So the next day at the air show, it was mainly joy riding on type from Air Koryo's fleets. (epic music) (helicopter engine roaring) There's not many airshow actually and to go on for a joy ride, so this is why it's so unique My favour is always the Ilyushin 62. It was Soviet's premier back in the 1970s and eighties. (plane engine roaring) Sitting at a very end of the Ilyushin 62, listening to the different from the D30 Soloviev engine. It was just beyond amazing. It was nothing like it. (plane engine roaring) The next interesting joy This was used as a transporter, so it has a bench Each of these joy rides were very short. They were about 15 minutes a long circuit, and come back to land. (plane engine roaring) Another rare aeroplane to four turboprop engine, 1969 made. This aeroplane in Air a refurbish in interior. It certainly looks better than it was over a 50 year old aeroplane. (plane engine roaring) In the evening, as we we were wrong. We were taken to a square. There were 5,000 people Foreigners like us were with the North Koreans, happy dance together. Obviously, the air show Not only we get to see the and also we get to joy ride aeroplanes you wouldn't but there are also lots of in this air show. Foreigners, for the first with North Koreans. I think aviation really unites people and bring the world closer. - [Charles] This was the biggest Events Diary of 2016 that it would become an annual event, but alas, international tensions of Donald Trump as president meant there was no tourism and after that, the momentum was lost, making the 2016 Wonsan Air Show a one-off and surely the most exotic (epic music)