(audience cheering and clapping) - Did y'all plan this? You kind of like compliment each other. Did you plan it? - [Kelly Clarkson] You You walked out and I was (Lily and Jane laughing) I am so excited y'all are here. I'm such a big fan of both of you. - We're excited, too. - I literally. - I've never rubbed and this will be the thing that I just remind her of every Christmas. (audience clapping) - She's the one who to your show when it first came on and I was just like, oh my God. I loved y'all before, but Congratulations on this show being such a huge hit. (audience cheering and clapping) - So you've been doing Jesse, over there, my singer I work with, she's celebrating your She loves you. - [Lily] Can I have some? - Everybody kept going so professional. I was like, she's This is why we love Jesse. But also she wanted to celebrate y'all. We're all very excited and - Thanks. - Anyway, you've been doing - It's the longest running - That's amazing. (audience cheering and clapping) I know that y'all had to meet way before. So when did y'all first meet? - Well, I was developing It was not cast yet. (all laughing) Never heard of it. - With your friend, Dolly. - But none of that existed, I wasn't a television person and I was developing it as a dark comedy. And I heard Lily Tomlin is downtown LA doing a one-woman show and I went by myself. I was just knocked off my feet. I was totally smitten by her. And I first met her going I'm not making a movie about So I thought, we're gonna have to change everything. and I was like, we're taking shorthand, had a typewriter over here. (Kelly laughing) So do you remember that, the - Yes, I was totally knocked over because I was such a fan of Fonda's and I had a &quot;Klute&quot; hairdo and everything. (audience laughing) - So when she came back stage I think she was sort of trepidatious, but I was like &quot;Can I get an autograph?&quot; &quot;Can you get a note to my mother?&quot; (Kelly laughing) - Asking for all the things? Well, it must have been Were you kind of nervous 'cause she'd never done - Were you nervous? - I was nervous, but not because of her. This one, I was nervous 'cause of her. - Oh my God. - I love that, when you're and you're willing to... - She wasn't sure if (Kelly laughing) - Well that's like working That's what my life is So I'm like, what's he gonna say? So wait, is it true that on &quot;Grace and Frankie&quot;? I heard that this was true. Okay. I'm very excited. - We're very excited, that She's on our last episode, that the show was gonna - I know, that's what I'm saying. 'Cause we really haven't And also her documentary is coming out and &quot;9 To 5&quot;, the anniversary of it. So it's like a lot of things It's very cool. - The way she is in the last I mean, you couldn't think of a better way to have Dolly appear. - I know it's a tease, but oh my god. - That was a great tease. - [Jane] Oh, it was so good. - Yeah, I'm a little upset about it. I'm like, wait what? So wait, we're just a few - I'd like to be on a - You would? Actually, that would be... You would love him and what would come out of both Yes, he's very fun to work with. - Oh, he is? It's because probably how This is why I love working. He and John, it's really that can put their ego aside and go in on each other and at the end of the day and you're good. That's why it's so fun. - That's great. That's good to here. 'Cause I think it feels like people can have doors up and or afraid of what people or afraid of all these things and that fear, I think and stifles a good time. - [Jane] I agree. - He was on &quot;Reba&quot; when I did her show. - I know, I knew that. - He was really adorable. - So you worked with him? You met him. - You never told me that. - Well, I don't tell you everything. (all laughing) - Wait a damned minute. I am really disappointed. You know, I have not - Oh, that's the one - Much less strap on heels. So when we were headed here, I said, &quot;Lily, I've gotta hold See, I tell you everything. I'm never gonna wear heels again. - And you leave out run Congratulations on all Is it hard to say goodbye that you've been playing? 'Cause you feel like these a little of you or a - Well you can see by that would probably show you (audience laughing) - A lot of them is in us. - A lot of them is in us. A lot of us is in them. Whichever way you cut it. (Kelly chuckling) So are y'all afraid of the - Well, we cried. She probably didn't cry. - I did cry. I cried more than you cried. I have a film to prove it. No, I cried more than she did. - She was crying because they were applauding us, you that they were applauding (all laughing) How can you resist that? - You were teed up. (Kelly laughing) Get her a martini, Jesse. - Oh my God, it's not that. It's not anything so horrible. - No, it was sad. It was sad, we were together. There's also something to - Very much so. - Us being musicians, and then COVID hit and didn't have work for a couple years. We really lucked out 'cause all our people are on the road and So we get that. We had jobs during that - I have to apologize for being so rude. It's just my- - Ruthless. (all laughing) - No, I don't know when to shut up. - No, but that's why it's so awesome. This is what's awesome about Blake. See, you and Blake, I need You know what, if can you get him to work. - I'll do it. - That cowboy likes being on his ranch. He doesn't like to work, but When are y'all doing this Y'all should do something, do a fun movie. Are you gonna do that? - [Jane] Well. - Okay. I didn't know. - We've actually already done one and we're gonna start another one. - Two movies. - Okay, I know, but are you gonna do one based on these characters at all? - No. - Fine. (all laughing) Fine, don't give the No, I just love these characters. They're just such a fun, fresh idea. - I agree, I think- - How about a movie with Tom Brady? - [Kelly] Not too shabby. - Better watch out, Blake. - [Kelly] So many - Really? - Nevermind. So, wait. How would you describe the importance of female friendships in your life? Because that's what I feel like, literally Jess and I were just talking before y'all came out here you have no idea what it meant for me and I think for females in general. I have always had solid I feel like they're the but I can really go deep and just be very vulnerable Do you feel like that's been helpful for you through your life? Male friendships are facing looking out, &quot;Oh, look at her boobs.&quot; &quot;God, what a great car.&quot; And always gonna do a Women friendships are face to face. And it's like, &quot;Can you help me?&quot; &quot;I'm really lost.&quot; &quot;Can you help me?&quot; And you'll take me in your arms. We're not afraid to ask for help. We're not afraid to express vulnerability. We just drill down to kind of soul level very fast, women do. - Do you think that's a I'm raised in the south. They're raised not to - [Jane] That's right. - Which is a shame. - Don't express need, don't ask for help, keep it on the surface. It's one of the strengths- - 'Cause you'll appear weak. That's right, is that and it's one of the things I'm sorry I'm doing all the talking. - That's all right. - I've already lived it. (all laughing) - That's true, actually. And that's the truth. - Oh my God. - Anyway, there's a Harvard that shows that for women, is as dangerous for - Wow. - There's a lot to be said We just have to teach men how and maybe there'd be fewer wars. - To say that it's okay to do it that way. Like I said, with the guys I grew up with, I think they were taught to have barriers. - Oh yeah, they don't need anyone. - Have you had strong female - Yes, indeed. Here's one right here. - Yeah, I love y'all. - More than 40 years, almost 50. (Jane whispering) 50 years. (all laughing) She said, wait. Over that much time there's obviously been ups and downs in your life? How do you think the other in not only your career, - What I did is I learned, because she had already written like three books about her life. - About myself. (all laughing) - About your life, really. And so I just chucked searching my life and I just adapted, I jumped on her. - And molded. - I jumped on her and I just kind of vicariously all the research. - You're that kid in school, looking at the paper on the