Simon: Okay Mandy. So I think i've worked this out. So you're deaf? Mandy: Yes, I lost all my hearing when I was 18 years old. Simon: Wow, and how old are you now? Mandy: 29. So it's 10 years. Simon: Wow And Mandy, how did you lose your hearing if you don't mind me asking? Mandy: I have a connective tissue disorder, so basically I got sick and my nerves deteriorated. [somber music] Mandy: Growing up the only thing I wanted to do was sing. I ended up going to school for vocal music education so that I could have that be my life. When I was in college I thought I had an ear infection and it just got worse and worse and by Christmas I was borderline legally deaf in both ears. There was one day where the teacher was going to play the piano and I had to chart out everything he was playing and I had my pencil ready and everybody else's pencils start moving and I'm just waiting for the test to start and then one by one every person got up and left the room. I just didn't hear enough to even start the test. That was the last day I was a part of the music program. That was a bad day. Heh. Dad: We were sitting in the car together to come home, she said, Dad, I can't remember what your voice sounds like anymore. At that moment you knew that, um, things would never be the same. Mandy: Everything that I ever wanted was just going away and I couldn't stop it. Dad: The music is alive inside of her. The only question was what could she do with it now. Mandy: My dad suggested that we play a song, I said well that's crazy. But... I had I had a guitar tuner and I hummed my starting note and just went for it. Music now isn't about the sound, it's about the feeling. I'm excited, I'm nervous, I'm scared, so I'm just trying to... Dad: laugh Mandy: It's not the dream that I always had. That's okay because I showed up And I did something I did something I never believed I could do. [up beat music] Simon: So... you were singing before you lost your hearing? Mandy: Yeah, I've been singing since I was four. So I I left music after I lost my hearing and I uh figured out how to get back into singing with muscle memory using visual tuners and trusting my pitch. Howie: So your shoes are off because you're feeling the vibration. Is that how you're following the music? Mandy: Yeah, i'm feeling the tempo the beat uh through the floor. Simon: And Mandy what are you going to sing? Mandy: I'm gonna sing a song that I wrote called "Try." Simon: Okay, can you tell me what it's about? Mandy: After I lost my hearing, I gave up. But I want to do more with my life then just give up. Mandy: So. Simon: Good for you. Mandy: Good for me. [cheers and applause] Simon: Good for you. K well look this is your moment and good luck. Mandy: Okay [applause] [music starts] I don't feel the way I used too The sky is grey much more than it is blue But I know one day I'll get through And I'll take my place again. If I would try If I would try Oh.... there is no one for me to blame. Cause I know the only thing in my way Is me I don't live the way I want too. That whole picture never came into view. But I'm tired of getting used too the day So I will try So I will try If I would try If I would try Oh... oooo [music ends] [cheers and applause] [up beat music starts] Simon: Mandy I don't think you're going to need a translator for this. buzzer sound [cheers and applause] Mel B: Wow Simon: Hey This is incredible. Mandy: Thank you Simon: Incredible I mean I've done this a long time. You're one of the most amazing I've ever seen and heard. Come here Mandy: Thank you so much. Simon: Good for you. Dad... That was amazing. Amazing Mel B: Ahh Simon: Honestly I never think I'm going to be surprised or amazed by people and then you turn up. And with I mean just the fact that you are you. But it is your voice Your tone The song was beautiful. Congratulations you are straight through to the live shows. Mandy: laughs Simon: Mandy. You know what? We found each other. Mandy: Yes [cheers and applause] Mandy: What just happened? Oh my word. Oh my... (fades out)