This you have not seen before! This is an exclusive! Survival kit for any situation! This video will be an easy way to make a kit that will save your life! Detailed production, full test! I need: versatility, versatility, ease of use, low cost. Saw blade, steel grade 9KhF, analog USA L2, analog Germany 115CrV 3 Made annealing of steel at a temperature of about 800 degrees Celsius. I immediately made two blanks. For myself and for my wife. The initial processing is the same, but for the spouse it will be significantly different. Optimal set of additional components, design and shape, compactness, low weight. The most practical form is &quot;Tanto&quot; Descents were made without the use of a belt sander. I just fixed the file at the right angle on the guide. Since the blanks have been heat-treated, everything is easily processed. I bought two saw blades from a reciprocating saw. 280 mm long with straight coarse and straight clean cut. Steel U8A. And I started making fasteners for these saws. At the same time, the mount will be flint for the armchair. As which will be the ferrocerium rod. I made a hole for fastening, it can also serve as a screwdriver and a chisel. I drilled 4 mm holes for passing the cord and on the blade with a diameter of 10 mm. This will facilitate the design, with the help of them it is convenient to hold the knife. You can vary the methods of attaching a knife to something, such as a pole. These holes do not weaken the structure. I quickly made blacksmith pliers from old pliers. The temperature is about 850 degrees Celsius. Hardening into oil. The blade confidently scratches the glass with a crunch - this means that 63 HRC units of hardness have been achieved. High hardness means high brittleness! Release of metal in the oven temperature 200 degrees 1 hour. Hardness will drop to 58-60 HRC units. Metal stresses will go away. I decided to oxidize against rust in a &quot;rust converter&quot; - it contains phosphoric acid. I made a container from cardboard and adhesive tape, but I made a mistake with the size. I made another container from a sewer pipe.)) I didn't like the result. ((I wanted a beautiful glossy finish, not matte. I cleaned it again and covered it with another amazing composition. Liquid based on hydrochloric acid, silene dioxide and copper sulfate. The result is amazing! Glossy black chrome with mother-of-pearl tints! Beauty! Welded a small lever to the M4 bolt and a screw to fasten the saw blade. Oxidation in the same way. The sharpening angle is 40 degrees so that the blade sharpens for a long time. Started making additional elements. I made the ferrocerium rod flat. A small cut magnesium will be included in the kit as a reliable tinder for ignition.The burning temperature of magnesium is 2000 degrees Celsius! The weight of accessories for fire is minimal!I made a frame for fishing line out of wire.There is also a set of fishing hooks and flies, sinkers, needles in adhesive tape, a condom as a compact universal capacity and accessories for lighting a fire Paracord (parachute sling) - very durable nylon cord, diameter 4 mm The knife turned out very cool! BUT THAT IS NOT ALL! The scabbard should be light and strong! I wrap the knife and saw blade in layers with paper, cling film, and again tape. Covered with melted paraffin from a candle! I mixed the epoxy and started layering the fiberglass. The first layer has polymerized. Layers alternated - fiberglass and fiberglass canvas. Density 300 g/m2. I heated the resin a little with a hair dryer to make it more fluid. Inserted pieces of foam to have a positive buoyancy of the scabbard. It was possible to make an additional compartment. After polymerization, it is easy to separate from the adhesive tape. To remove it, I warmed it up with a hairdryer and, due to the entertainment of the paraffin, everything turned out fine. Processed more precisely with a small cutting disc. Very accurate match of shapes and sizes. It's perfect!)) High strength with very low weight! Ordinary paint will scratch and be short-lived. I added different &quot;colour&quot; colors to the epoxy. For fastening, you need to use an eyelet, but I do not have them. But I have a brass tube! The outer diameter of the tube is 6 mm, the inner diameter is 5 mm, the tube section is 3 mm longer than the web thickness. M4 screw with a cone head, flared the tube in turn on each side. After that, with an M5 screw with a flat head and a washer, pressed the flared edges of the tube to the canvas. It turned out much more reliable than the grommet. And very neat and good quality. Now I'm going to test in the forest! Bottom line: Good functionality and versatility The light weight of the knife and good steel hardness The kit includes everything you need that you may need in an emergency. Durability of the scabbard, light weight of the scabbard. Very low manufacturing cost. The optimal size, fits comfortably in the hand, a lot of mounting options. Now there will be full tests in the forest! I will test in full force without sparing the tool. A saw blade with a straight clean cut cuts wood well and I liked it more than a straight rough cut. The big teeth cling too strongly to the wood. Because of this, more effort has to be applied. The cutting speed is the same. Having collected wood, I went down to the river. On the river bank, sharpened a little magnesium. And with a ferrocerium rod kindled a fire. From the second log I made a &quot;Finnish Candle&quot; - a forest stove. The day ended and the fish did not catch. Shooting video will be difficult. This set of tools for which it was made, it fully performs all its functions. Share this video with your friends - they will like it. Saying thanks to the author is just a click on Like. Thank you for watching! There's a lot more on my channel! Goodbye friends!