(upbeat music) - Pete Davidson, Pete's dad never got to see him on SNL Pete's mom has never seen Is Pete white? Is he Black? Ann Coulter needs to if she hates him. (audience cheers) Pete, I actually thought you were Black, but I guess you just have - Whoa, Macaulay Culkin David, thanks for taking time away from waiting for Sandler to David Spade's assistant once and the world was shocked to find out you could afford an assistant. - Pete Davidson's ugly. He's actually going on It's been a while since but you got to help me out now. Is it the fourth year that they finally let Jacked up teeth! Fix that shit! Jimmy Carr's got better - Rob Riggle is here. I actually really love Rob was a Marine. The few, the proud, which - And look at this little It's hard to recognize or on an adventure with - Jewel's here. Jewel, I 'Cause I want to give to Google who you are. My mom really wanted me I don't know what the (beep) it is. If it's a phone, it's broken, but she'd really appreciate My mom came here to see you. So yeah. - Pete Davidson's here. I'm appalled that people would - Come here and make Pete's heroic father made on 9/11. This is not the roast of That was in 2001. - Oh, that was dope. - Jimmy Carr's here. When I first met Jimmy Carr, I thought, &quot;Wow, Jeff Dunham's puppets (audience laughs) Jimmy, you look like a - I just met this guy, Pete Davidson, backstage before the show, a great guy. He asked to take a picture with me and I didn't even realize I told him, &quot;Don't give up kid. Whatever disease you (audience laughs and applauds) - Yes! That's a Super Bowl champ! That's a Super Bowl champ! Yes! - Peyton Manning's here. I He's the shit. Peyton, Peyton looks like to no longer need helmets. (audience laughs) No seriously Peyton, I especially when I saw you &quot;Hey, you guys!&quot; A Super Bowl is also what with as a child. - Pete Davidson. Yeah, good to have you here tonight. You know, as he talks and everywhere else, he lost his father on 9/11. Pete, your performance to your dad because it was hit the World Trade Center. No, really, I actually, I do think you're going to And I knew it the minute I before the show. - Let's hear it for Rob Lowe. Okay? Right? Rob Lowe. Or as gonorrhea doctors People call Rob Lowe a bad actor, but that's only because they he didn't (beep) that nanny. Rob has two beautiful kids here. Not his children. They're just Rob was the first male spokesperson for the Lee National Denim Day, which raises millions of dollars You know, that's a great thing. It's a disease. Yeah. It's a disease that his and great-grandmother suffered from, but you still (beep) a It doesn't change anything. - I'm coming for you. - I once thought Pete biracial goofball who ruined But it turns out I was - Ha ha, good one. Ann Coulter is here, everybody. Ann Coulter, if you're here, who's scaring the crows (audience laughs) You know, Ann describes But most people call her a (beep). You know, last year we had and now we have Ann Coulter, - Our first roaster, it's Pete Davidson. Now he's the newest member This introduction is way Guy from New York. It's Pete Davidson. (audience cheers) - Thank you. It's an honor to be at a (audience laughs) Wow, wow. Ludacris and If I was 38, I'd be (audience laughs) Kev, I loved you as Black - It's good to see Comedy with whatever race Pete Davidson is. You just look real, you're You have a weird, vague ass I don't like your face at all, man. You seem like a nice person, I don't have fun. Pete. Pete has got a lot going on. Pete, I don't know how you and Lorne Michaels balls in An amazing multitasker Pete Davidson is. - Hannibal Buress is Hannibal, of course, is famous for exposing Bill Cosby, right? And only for exposing Bill Cosby. Now he deserved it, though. Bill Cosby hurt those women without ever caring That Hannibal Buress would become famous. - Look at all these scrubs on the stage. Hannibal, Natasha, Pete Davidson. I haven't seen a more the last Lakers game. - Now come on. Let's hear (audience cheers) Thanks for being here and taking a break from throwing barrels at Super Mario. (audience laughs) I'm sorry. Please don't eat me. I'm so afraid, you're so big. Oh, one of the many nicknames that Shaq has is Superman, right? And much like Superman, he and has never met his real father. No, no, no, no, Shaq is cool though. Shaq has shattered eight (upbeat music) - Thankfully Justin avoided the usual, I guess you could say You know, he hasn't had a sex He hasn't killed anyone. You haven't bought a monkey. Oh shit. You did, you bought a monkey. And you abandoned the monkey in Germany. What the (beep) was that? You abandoned a monkey in Germany! That was a privileged You showed him your lifestyle and then you dropped him off in Germany? Now that monkey's turned sucking rhino dick, because Not about the monkey tonight, What I want you to do? I 'Cause it's gonna be a great night, man. Not for you, for everybody - When we were looking for a roastmaster, we called Jamie Foxx, Chris Rock, and they both couldn't do it. Then I had a great idea. Let's call Kevin Hart and see if he has Dave Chappelle's number. No, I have huge. (audience cheers) - He was here. He didn't have it. Kevin, you were awesome tonight. I have huge respect for Kevin Hart. Kevin loves seeing and for him that's an iPad Mini. Sorry. Kevin is so short he (audience laughs) I love Kevin Hart's career plan. Do everything Martin - Let's get to the which is to give Justin Bieber some tips to use when he inevitably I've been in lockup and So pay attention. The first thing you'll need is a shank. I made mine out of a pintail I'll show you how later. It's so simple. I found Bubblicious works best You see when I did my stretch, all the hood rats on my cell block wanted to break off a piece of So I decided some bitch needed to get got. I walked into the chow hall, picked out the biggest From then on, prison was easier than making blueberry scones. (audience cheers) And Shaq, Shaq, I hope your mom (audience laughs) Justin, before I go, here's You need to settle down, bring find yourself the right gal, but she'll have to be Someone powerful and famous and rich. Someone you can smoke a joint with or indulge in the occasional three-way. I'm talking about a and a freak in the bedroom. So, Justin, my final piece (audience cheers) Or not, I'm out then. - Martha, thanks for coming. I know that's probably of anymore. - Justin Bieber, everybody. Seems like only yesterday you Time flies when you're a piece of shit. Justin, you've been on Ellen more than a pussy juice mustache. (audience laughs) Mine was better, Ludacris. Justin was born to a teenage single mom. No wonder he's got moves. He was in the womb, dodging a coat hanger. Justin, Selena Gomez had to (beep) you. She is literally the of entertainment history. (audience laughs) No, Justin, you're so successful. You're so rich. You're like our Beatles. Not the band, the bugs - Ah, Natasha Leggero. This was my first time seeing you perform. You were really great, even though you didn't shoot like Snoop promised. - Now as many of you know, I'm a police detective So Justin, as a police officer of the law, I'm gonna give it to you straight, which I know will be a I got a question, Justin, what kind of bitch eggs You caused $20,000 in damages. Imagine the damage you would have caused if you threw like a boy? And what are you doing dropping 75Gs in a Miami strip club? I heard the DJ played one of your songs and the dancers complained Justin, as a father of six, You know, last year, you most hated person of all time. Kim Jong-un didn't even score that low and he uses your music But thanks to that music, Justin is worth over $200 million. And in prison, four packs of Kools. Justin got a tattoo of Jesus on his calf. Why you got to bring Jesus into your mess? That man has suffered enough. (audience laughs) - Of course, I had to have one of my favorite people in Shaquille O'Neal, thanks for coming, man. I love you dude. But how in 19 seasons have you I've hit more pedestrians with my car. - It's time to talk about Justin, leave it to Bieber. (audience cheers) Justin's life changed when and liked it, which only goes to prove that Usher ain't Black. Now, Justin, you release so many horrible you should change your Now, most (beep) like myself, we go a little crazy when we get famous. Buy some dope cars, (beep) you bought a monkey. I mean, that monkey was more embarrassed than the one that started Now when J Bird got arrested, he had a big smile in his mug shot. Not because he gangster, because he knows what goes on in jail. Now Justin, you so mother (beep) pretty, when the inmates saw your - Snoop Doggy Dogg. What's up, man? He's way too shy to admit this, but he was actually the the year I was born. And look at you now, Snoop, you're one of the 10 dudes at my roast, sitting right next to Martha How cool is this? So cool. You made it. I'm proud of you, man. I'm proud of you. - And now the man of you dainty, wigger, you. Justin Bieber, they say that but I don't like you at all, man. I'm just here 'cause this is a Justin, ah, you gotta He started from the bottom I don't like your music, man. I'm not a big fan of it. I listened to some of it. I'm not a fan. I don't like your music. I think it's bad. I think it's bad, man. I don't like it. (laughs) I hate your music, man. I hate your music more than (audience laughs) Yo, Justin, man. Well this has been cool. And despite all those foul things I said, you seem like a sharp businessman and (audience laughs) this is real cool that you did this and let all these strangers shit on you in front of all these people. And I actually liked That's a good song. I liked that song. And so thanks for letting me - Hannibal Buress, thank I don't really know much about you, but from what I've been hearing, I hope you don't know (audience laughs) - Now let's get to the than anybody else up He may have just turned 21, but Justin will always be a baby to me since babies piss everywhere and never know when to shut the (beep) up. I remember one day I got this call saying, &quot;We want you to collaborate with this little dude who will And I was like, &quot;Great. I love Kevin Hart. That's my guy.&quot; But this dude turned out to be and together we dropped (audience cheers) It's got over a billion hits on YouTube. That's because I'm in it. It also has 4 million dislikes. That's because he's in it. It's like you try to roll But you're not tough, Justin, I know you've been on Ellen 14 times. You act so much like a pussy on the show, Ellen tried to eat you, I mean, come on. (audience cheers) But you've become a music icon, like a modern day Michael Jackson. The only difference is, he acted whiter. Justin Bieber wants to be Black so bad, he actually has seen Kevin ladies and gentlemen. - Ouch, ouch. I feel bad kicking you while you're down. But since you want to be Black, you might as well get used to it, man. No, honestly, man, it takes a very brave soul to get up here. And I just want to say, I love you JB. I'm glad that you did this. Y'all make some noise for - Luda, what's up, man? I knew you would show up for me tonight. I feel like I've known you my whole life, but that's just because you look like the Mr. Potato Head I had as a kid. (audience laughs) Luda and I had- - That was good! That was good. - Luda and I had a lot &quot;Baby,&quot; together. In fact, he told me it was the only baby he ever made on purpose. (upbeat music) - Look at you, Seth. You've got the spray on The peck implants, halogen teeth, the bleached anus. The scrotal tuck, nipple enlargement, taint documentation. But I gotta admit, I envy you. You've got boatloads of and still, even with all you can walk down the - Charlie, you claim to have tiger blood, but with all the porn stars you banged, it's probably just Tiger As you may know, Charlie His original Spanish name is Senor Drugs. Kidding aside though, Carlos Estevez, took his dad's name, yes, to I've seen your films and you but you know, with your rap you're definitely acting like a Carlos. Charlie went on to star and TV and film, both drama and comedy. He was the star of &quot;Hot Shots.&quot; (audience cheers) Which is also what Charlie So now, Charlie is a self-contained unit. He is dependent upon no man and no thing, except crack, Jack, crank, meth, Ludes, Vicodin, blow, nitrous dust, hash, and this He's the reason a dick with cocaine on it is called a Sheenus. (audience laughs) - Wow. Wow. - He's still with us, Charlie Sheen. In fact, Charlie just (audience cheers) - Thank you. - A statement no one Charlie allegedly made a I want to tell you though, Charlie, I think she's lying, because I saw the scene in &quot;Wall Street.&quot; You can't even make yourself cry. But you know, with all those like the ones about crab why is there no show about the Being an escort for Charlie Sheen. How long must we wait for the first season of &quot;Deadliest Snatch&quot;? I'm ready to see that right now. (audience cheers) Honestly, Charlie, I to see the night that you I really didn't. - Seth McFarland, the only and the hooker Charlie that the eventually came out. (audience cheers) - Kate Walsh. Why are you here? Let me say that it is a thrill to be around the hottest - Seth McFarland! Come on, everyone, take it easy on Seth. It's gotta be hard for him to do a roast, especially because &quot;The If only &quot;The Simpsons&quot; of Seth McFarland, he But sadly, Seth McFarland's bulky ass is caked in layers of unwiped excrement and shame because &quot;The - Gilbert Gottfried. Just watching him perform, you can tell he's really got some extra, what's the word, chromosomes. And I always seem to look like someone just squirted lemon juice in my eyes. - Seth McFarland, thank And thank you for not telling any jokes. I've heard rumors that you like to drink, sometimes maybe a little too much. Now be careful, Seth, you Tall, handsome, rich, and - Look at you, you Take off your hair so I can You look great. You know, David, here's the thing. Some people call you a washed just a terrible human being. I'd like to thank everyone And let's get started with the roast. David, your acting is like &quot;Inception.&quot; There's no sense of reality. It's impossible to and midway through, we realize, you were unconscious the whole time. (audience laughs) You know, I'll tell you though, my friend, you will always be Mitch (audience cheers) This is a show that did for lifeguards what skin cancer did for lifeguards. (audience laughs) Yes, for all his achievements, for all this man's many achievements, it was really &quot;Baywatch&quot; that David had an important role, an important role on &quot;Baywatch.&quot; His job was to kill boners. (audience laughs) But David is more than He's also a terrible singer. He's he's the only singer just said (beep) it. Now as you saw from his big entrance, David is hooked on a feeling, the feeling he gets from six Vicodin. Recently, however, he hasn't had time to do another huge singing event. Just like Matt Damon and to write another screenplay or Anderson Cooper hasn't had time to find that special lady. And the Hoff is multilingual. He can speak, what, and whatever the (beep) that cheeseburger video. Yes, David, - My friend, you have done it all. - Thank you. to death watch, and I think, I think I speak for everybody here when I say that what we is Pam Anderson's tits. - I consider Seth an icon. I do. Like I got a critique about Seth. It's too much Seth. See, but I think the that he don't have a partner. You know, like the &quot;South Hanna once said, &quot;I'm bigger than Yogi,&quot; and Barbera slapped the shit Seth needs a Barbera to slap him and slap him twice. Once to say, &quot;Hey man, don't And two, just say your gay. No straight man writes that - You may recognize Patrice from his many speaking roles in movies, but only if you've sat in I know, I know, some of these which is why it's important to remember that Rosa Parks fought three seats on the bus. - During a very dark period in my life, I found inspiration by &quot;The Iliad.&quot; So see, Seth, you're not the only by taking ideas from Homer. - Tyson has had three marriages. The first two ended in knockouts. - I threw in the towel, - I threw in the (beep) towel. - Please don't murder me. He's a guy who has beaten every opponent he has gone up against (audience laughs) (upbeat music) - Martha, thanks for coming. I know that's probably of anymore. - Let's get to the which is to give Justin Bieber some tips to use when he inevitably I've been in lockup and So pay attention. The first thing you'll need is a shank. I made mine out of a pintail I'll show you how later. It's so simple. I found Bubblicious works best You see when I did my stretch, all the hood rats on my cell block wanted to break off a piece of So I decided some bitch needed to get got. I walked into the chow hall, picked out the biggest From then on, prison was easier than making blueberry scones. (audience cheers) And Shaq, Shaq, I hope your mom (audience laughs) Justin, before I go, here's You need to settle down, bring find yourself the right gal, but she'll have to be Someone powerful and famous and rich. Someone you can smoke a joint with or indulge in the occasional three-way. I'm talking about a and a freak in the bedroom. So Justin, my final piece (audience cheers) Or not, I'm out then. - I see you over there What you laughing at, huh? She's so old, if you look closely at the hundred dollar bill, Ben Franklin in the background. - I believe the bedroom in the house, but I don't have You have three kids with May I suggest pulling out some time and finishing on some Martha Stewart bed linens? (audience laughs and cheers) - I had the honor of playing I did my best, but the only one to truly was the FBI. - I remember years ago when to be a movie, a TV movie, because they're always so dreadful. I was really nervous. Well, you can imagine my Cybill Shepherd was going to play me. I thought, &quot;Cybill Shepherd? Great. No one will see it.&quot; (audience laughs) Now Cybill, isn't it interesting that your career basically As if you'd offended someone with vast resources and money. Who could cook up such a plan? Who could craft such a scheme? It was me, bitch. - If anyone can survive in prison, it's someone who can toss a salad. That's right. Martha's a She even has her own brand of It comes in an old box. Martha is also a humanitarian. When she heard about living in tiny cages, she sent them sewing machines. What's wrong with that? - Hi, Bruce. I have great respect for Our roastee. Probably because I've never seen any of the movies everybody's talking about. Unlike everyone here tonight, I personally have a great I play it at all my parties when it's late and I want everyone to leave immediately. Bruce and I are actually neighbors. We're in the same town in The interior design is amazing. He wanted everything inside except his new wife. I remember when Bruce he handed over the &quot;I'll catch the next one.&quot; - Martha Stewart, shank Seriously, and congratulations on getting that Thai soccer team out of your vagina and into your sweat shops. That's where they are now. - Nikki Glaser, you have it all. The name of a professional porn star and the body of an amateur porn star. You know, I'm a big supporter But remember, Nikki, Me Too shouldn't just be what when he tells him he had - Noted. - In case you didn't know, Shaq Diesel. Superman, Big Aristotle, and Martha Stewart's baby daddy. And trust me, Martha know how Boy, let me tell you. Once you go Shaq, you never go back. Ain't that right, Martha? - When Shaq bought his house, I was the first person he called. The house had 13 bedrooms and I helped convert eight - All these rappers on stage and Martha Stewart has (audience laughs) - Well that's not fair. - I taught Snoop that in business is diversification. Besides his music career, Snoop now has produced a porn movie. And by the way, Natasha, So I guess that tonight's with five Black guys. You know, I do a lot of gardening, but you are without a doubt the dirtiest used up hoe I have ever seen. (upbeat music) - Snoop Dogg. Snoop smokes so much weed that he farted during the commercial, the whole front row got the munchies. - The true player in the house tonight. My homeboy, OG, Ice-T, original gangster. (audience cheers) You know, Ice-T been in the game so long, they should just call him Ice Age. I tried to listen to one of Ice-T's songs on the way up here, but I didn't have no (audience laughs and cheers) Now when I seen you earlier, I thought you was throwing but I found out it was - On a past roast, Snoop Please. If I want to bang a skinny I'll call Alicia Keys. - Lisa is a stone cold freak. Lisa (beep) Larry King, Don King, Rodney King, and Billie Jean I mean, this bitch loves to eat, for real. If you want to (beep) Lisa doggy style, all you gotta do is put a And that's real. - Now Lisa's had so much sex with so many different brothers, we've even gave her rap Notorious P.I.G. You gonna like this one, Russell. Tun DMC. Bust a, bust a nut in your face. And my favorite, Snoop Chili - I love Snoop. D O double Gizzel. That can't be right. Snoop told me during the break that once he had a DNA test Is that true? Unless my math is wrong, you're 29% not guilty. - I've got to give a shout in the (beep) house. Larry, you know how we is. Larry is cool, but backstage, I handed him a joint and - Round of applause for Snoop. Come on. That was hilarious. Snoop, you have butchered in your music. You have two Gs in the word dog. You use izzle and fizzle You speak worse English - Whitney Cummings. Look at your fine, little I roll blunts fatter than you, but you've been passed But right now, things are Everybody in Hollywood And they all saying the same thing. Think that bitch gave me herpes. - Snoop Doggy Dogg. What's up, man? He's way too shy to admit this, but he was actually the the year I was born. And look at you now, Snoop. You're one of the 10 dudes at my roast, sitting right next to Martha how cool is this? It's so cool. You made it. I'm proud of you, man. I'm proud of you. (audience applauds) Justin, you release so many you should change your Now, most (beep) like myself, we go a little crazy when we get famous. Buy some dope cars, (beep) you bought a monkey. I mean, that monkey was more embarrassed than the one that started Now when J Bird got arrested, he had a big smile in his mug shot. Not because he gangster, because he knows what goes on in jail. Now Justin, you so mother (beep) pretty, when the inmates saw your - Snoop used to call That's right, the Dogg. Right, Snoop? Back in the day, the reason is because he was a dog Now he's called a dog because in the living room floor, isn't that true? That's true, Snoop. - Real shit, nephew. You look real good. (audience laughs) I didn't know the Muppets for (beep) though. Yes, sir. Now look, Kevin's Just like Bill Cosby. And just like Bill Cosby, women can't tell when - Snoop, your homie, Dr. Dre, last year and you should be proud. There's not a lot of Black billionaires. There's Dr. Dre and the (audience laughs) I mean, you are a legend, which is a nice way of You only do it doggy style now because it's easier on your lower back. - We got Ludacris in (audience cheers) I love that song of yours where you said, &quot;If you a pimp and you know That shit was tight. But you know who else Me, 15 years before you did it (beep). Stop biting my shit. But here's one of &quot;There's hoes in the room. There's hoes in the car. There's hoes on the stage. There's hoes by the bar.&quot; (beep) are you a rapper or Dr. Seuss? (audience laughs) (upbeat music) - Bruce Willis. What a career, right? &quot;The Fifth Element,&quot; &quot;The Sixth Sense,&quot; &quot;The Whole Nine Yards,&quot; &quot;12 Monkeys,&quot; zero Oscars. And it's not just action He's actually a great dramatic actor, too. I loved &quot;The Sixth Sense.&quot; It's great movie and it's a really impressive performance. I don't know how you pretended while a 10 year old kid but you did it. And the ending, I did not I mean, I shouldn't spoil it, but I mean (beep) it, It's so good. Okay. So at the end of &quot;The Six Sense,&quot; Bruce goes back to making shitty movies. (audience laughs) Bruce Willis is what you get of Dwayne &quot;The Rock&quot; Johnson. We want to have a good time tonight, but don't get too comfortable up here, because later we're gonna be replacing you with Ashton Kutcher. Relax, relax. Bruce gets He was even at Ashton and Demi's wedding. His gift was a toaster and $90 million. And so tonight let's honor one of the three founders not the one who won an Oscar and not the one who became But the one whose agent is that says, &quot;He'll take it!&quot; Walter Bruce Willis! - Joe, I took you under my wing. I tried to make you tough. Tried to make you an action star, which ain't easy to do with a of figure skating. Joseph played a younger me in &quot;Looper.&quot; Couldn't pull it off. There's only one actor who It was Demi Moore. And she made a lot more money - Bruce, this is honestly a real, a big personal moment for me to be here, roasting my dead cousin's I know you, obviously, as the of just find on the street. Obviously, you had an until Jason Statham started balding. I'm just not familiar with I never seen a single one Like, it's always what some to finger me on his roommate's couch. Do you know what I'm saying? A lot of people don't know that Bruce is a very talented Bruce has also been very active with the Make-A-Wish Foundation, which is where they so dying doesn't seem so terrible. So cool. - Nikki Glaser, I am a big fan. You and Vince Vaughn were - I see it. I see it. - Bruce, you keep making but guess what? So does Kim Jong-un, but at least Kim is smart I'm out there saving the world. You can't even save Planet Hollywood. Bruce came up with this whole idea about the Planet Hollywood. You know, he wanted to That was a great (beep) idea, wasn't it? So, anyway, he want all to invest, he put in hundreds I put in a lot of damn money. You owe me more money I'm not here to roast you. - It's so great to have Dennis Rodman, here, woo! I want to say Dennis is a bad negotiator, but he thinks a shoe at the same time. Dennis, how do you and when neither of you speak English? Dennis, I know you think it's a big deal that you saved the world, but it's not as much Who cares? I've saved the world 18 times. - Hi, Bruce. I have great respect for Our roastee. Probably because I've never seen any of the movies everybody's talking about. Unlike everyone here tonight, I personally have a great I play it at all my parties when it's late and I want everyone to leave immediately. Bruce and I are actually neighbors. We're in the same town in The interior design is amazing. He wanted everything inside except his new wife. I remember when Bruce he handed over the &quot;I'll catch the next one.&quot; - If anyone can survive in prison, it's someone who can toss a salad. That's right. Martha's a She even has her own brand of It comes in an old box. Martha is also a humanitarian. When she heard about living in tiny cages, she sent them sewing machines. What's wrong with that? - Bruce Willis. I'm so happy to see you. Gosh, the last time I saw your face, I was shopping for movies &quot;Moonlighting&quot; was a mix of drama and comedy, which is also a good way to (audience laughs) When he does comedy, it seems like drama. And when he does drama, it's hilarious. But Holly wouldn't be Hollywood for aging into mediocrity, (audience cheers) Bruce went on to make 96 movies using just one facial expression. Our characters on &quot;Moonlighting&quot; I played a former model, which I was. And he played an asshole, which he is. We actually came very close, but then he whipped it out, and ruined everything. I'm talking about your harmonica! Sadly, the stars never aligned for us and it's never gonna happen you are way too old for me. - Cybill Shepherd, my oldest friend. There's people I've known longer, but you are my oldest friend. When I got cast in &quot;Moonlighting,&quot; they picked me over 3,000 other actors because they wanted someone who with Cybill. It's so great to be back in another show starring me. - I'm so sorry. Sorry. - I really don't understand I mean, if you wanted to be humiliated, clearly we both know you could have just released another singing album. Some of you may not know but Bruce released an I did some research to find Turns out, it was his manager, and by his manager, I mean cocaine. Bruce, pal, you've done especially your subtle &quot;Moonrise Kingdom,&quot; loved that film. (audience cheers) The story of two fifth Bruce would have fallen in if he had met his current I first met Bruce when I was Demi Moore, in the film, I think it's time everyone When she shaved her head, she said it was for her But the truth is, she shaved her head because she loved her husband, Bruce, and he wanted to (beep) his own face. (audience laughs) And now Bruce, one of your friends and couldn't be here tonight. So they've asked me to from Christopher Walken. They've put it up here for me. Here it is. &quot;Hey, Bruce. Sorry I couldn't attend your funeral. I did want to say I've always been a fan, particularly your work in Sure, I was disappointed that but you gave a beautifully reminiscent of a monkey who poops in his hands and Mostly though, I wanted to publicly thank you for Planet Hollywood. If I'm honest, it's also my favorite planet. Thank you, Bruce Willis, and the courage to ask, hey, who wouldn't want in a booth next to the hack - Kevin Pollack, welcome You owe your whole career You've made more money doing And not to mention, you're better at cleaning houses. - I am here to do a deep dissection of how a (beep) bartender from New Jersey became such a big titty (audience cheers) Good reviews in the New that you lose to (beep) the JK Simmons. They don't, those things are great, but they don't buy you half No, they do not. I was sitting at a bar with Bruce and I asked him if he liked and he says, &quot;Try keeping when 22 is still on the menu.&quot; (audience laughs) What the (beep) does that mean? I mean, I know what it means, But I fell off my bar stool laughing. I had no idea why I still don't know what And we're done making the movie. By the way, by the way, when Wes Anderson calls him, he and I do &quot;Moonrise Kingdom&quot; Everyone in the cast stayed We did our own costumes and makeup. We did our own hair and we went to set in the Even Bill Murray, but He rented the Carnegie mansion When Wes said, &quot;Do you think Bruce understands to be like a repertory theater troop?&quot; I said, &quot;Shut the (beep) That's a (beep) movie star.&quot; (audience cheers) Maybe it's, I try to challenge myself. I look for roles that Whereas you deliver consistently And I mean like the same The last thing Bruce Willis I'm such an idiot. The script of his last three films was, &quot;Crinkle your forehead. Say short, memorable quip. Shoot the gun. Duck, repeat, the end.&quot; It's a half a page long. You can learn your lines in You don't, but you could. - &quot;Fight Club&quot; was the perfect movie. Who doesn't want to watch Ed for about 90 minutes? I love you, Ed. I do. But you do have a rep you know, hard to work with. Norton's rubbed more people the wrong way than Harvey Weinstein. I'm sorry. But you were great in &quot;The Italian Job.&quot; (audience cheers) An Italian job is also when (upbeat music) - When we were looking for a roastmaster, we called Jamie Foxx, Chris Rock, and they both couldn't do it. Then I had a great idea. Let's call Kevin Hart and see if he has Dave Chappelle's number. No, I have huge. (audience cheers) - He was here. He didn't have it. Kevin, you were awesome tonight. I have huge respect for Kevin Hart. Kevin loves seeing and for him that's an iPad Mini. Sorry. Kevin is so short he (audience laughs) I love Kevin Hart's career plan. Do everything Martin - There's no secret that Can we all agree on that? Everybody knows that. My thing is this. Justin, I just want you to that you're not gangster. That's Justin's main problem, man. You're not a gangster, accept that. - All right. Orlando Bloom took a swing at you. That's not gangster, Justin. It's not! He's got a perfume called Girlfriend. That's not gangster, Justin! You threw eggs at a house. Gangsters don't throw (beep) eggs. Snoop, when the last time you threw eggs at somebody's goddamn house? (audience laughs and applauds) We don't do that! It's not gangster! Justin, Justin sang the N-word on a video in a song that was about That's pretty goddamn gangster, Justin, I'ma give you that. That's as gangster as you get right there. He has gotten a lot of trouble the N-word on video. That right there, that Reason why I say that, because you know who The billion other white people that say the N-word every goddamn day. I'm talking about you, Martha. I know you say it. Thankfully Justin avoided the usual, I guess you could say You know, he hasn't had a sex He hasn't killed anyone. You haven't bought a monkey. Oh shit. You did, you bought a monkey. And you abandoned the monkey in Germany. What the (beep) was that? You abandoned a monkey in Germany! That was a privileged You showed him your lifestyle and then you dropped him off in Germany? Now that monkey's turned sucking rhino dick, because - Thank you, Kevin Hart. It's really great to be here. Oh, there you are. Sitting and listening over the last hour is the As we all know, Kevin is one of the biggest movie stars in the business right He struggled for years. When he finally got he spent $150,000 on a watch. I forget that term for that. It'll come to me. (audience laughs and cheers) Justin, you know the word. - For all the Black people that old white woman on the Yeah, right there. That's Martha Stewart, right there. Martha, do me a favor and put your ankle bracelet on vibrate, so we don't have no - Kevin, you look like someone (audience laughs) There is a lot of star power up here. These men combined have made millions in child support payments. Kevin, you are everywhere. You know, Kevin's actually of &quot;Game of Thrones.&quot; He's playing Peter Dinklage's shadow. (audience laughs and cheers) Kevin does all of his own stunts. He climbs into his own chair. He climbs out of his own bathtub. He goes up on his wife. (audience laughs) - You guys may have seen her on &quot;Reno 911&quot; as a whore on drugs. If you didn't see that, you may have seen her in Everybody, I want you for Natasha Leggero. - Real shit, nephew. You look real good. (audience laughs) I didn't know the Muppets for (beep) though. Yes, sir. Now look, Kevin's Just like Bill Cosby. And just like Bill Cosby, women can't tell when - My man, Snoop Dogg, Yeah. Wait, wait, let me clear something up for all the young people here tonight. Snoop, Snoop Dogg is a rapper. Yeah, that's my aunt's favorite rapper. You know, Snoop used to call That's right, the Dogg. Right, Snoop? Back in the day, the reason is because he was a dog Now he's called a dog because in the living room floor, isn't that true? That's true, Snoop. - Thank you, Webster. - What? - Kevin is the only celebrity with a star on the yellow brick road. - Shaq, take that dumb You look stupid. (laughs) Here's my question, Shaq, how did you even end up on a roast? That's what I want to know. They must have called and said, &quot;You know what? Send us the third funniest guy. Wait, he's unavailable? Send us Shaq. Let us get Shaq, then.&quot; - Congrats on all your success, Kevin. I'm sure it's gonna last forever. It's amazing to have Is this a roast, or is this - I love Hannibal, I really do. We know why he's here, okay. 'Cause he's not happy just That's not, that didn't No, no, no. He's here to destroy my - I just recently got married. That's something to celebrate. And Kevin was at my wedding because I needed a minature So thank you for that - The semi-famous rapper, His first album was called, &quot;Incognegro,&quot; and his new album, &quot;Ludaversal,&quot; You may not recognize him from because when he's on screen, even the white people start talking. Please welcome, one of the most Ludacris!