If you work in accounting or you're planning to make sure you know the Excel and the great thing is they Ready? (upbeat music) Number one, the AGGREGATE function. The AGGREGATE function allows and it gives you the ability as well as hidden cells. So for example, here I have date, transaction number, account and amount. What happens if I sum the amount column? Let's use Control + Shift + close bracket, press Why? Because I have an error in there. With the AGGREGATE function, I get to ignore errors. Just start off with AGGREGATE, then you get a lot of choices for the type of In this case, I want to sum, so I'm going to go with nine. Next, I get my ignore options. I can ignore hidden rows, ignore hidden rows, error values and nested SUBTOTAL and Now the SUBTOTAL function of the AGGREGATE function. It does the same thing, except that it wasn't as For example, you can't ignore In this case, let's say I just So I'm going to go with this option. Next is the array. This is my range that I want to aggregate, which is this one right here. The last option doesn't apply to us. It's something you need if you use the small and large functions. Now, we're just going to close bracket and press Enter and we're Let's update the number Now, at this point, I'm I'm not ignoring hidden cells. So if I restrict this to and click on OK, I still get the sum of To ignore hidden cells, I can change my option here. Five would ignore hidden rows. Three ignores it all. So I'm just going to go and I get the sum of So now if I change this to I get the sum of these two. Now let's quickly take a I have the total revenue here. I'm using the AGGREGATE I'm doing the same for total costs. Again, another AGGREGATE function. Now, what's the benefit Well, if I want to I can just use the AGGREGATE function, go with SUM and for my option here, I can say ignore nested and then as my array, When I close bracket and press Enter, it only adds up these values and it ignores anything that has AGGREGATE or SUBTOTAL in it. If you also wanted to ignore you can switch your Number two, the ROUND function. The ROUND function allows to the number of digits that you want. So in this case, I have I want to calculate total salary. Let's start with an equal sign. Go to C2 multiplied with open bracket and one plus C3 where Close bracket, press Enter and that's my total salary. But here I have more digits than I need. I want to round this to two digits. That's when I can use the ROUND function. So start off with ROUND, open bracket. The number in this case is the result of the formula and the is two in this case but you can put any number that you need. Close bracket, press Enter and that's my salary Let's update the format Now, I want to pull this formula down so we can look at different versions here but before I do that, I'm going to fix my cell referencing to make sure they don't shift. Now let's send this down and take a look at how we Well, instead of two here, I need a zero for that. How about rounding to the closest 10? Instead of a one, I need to put -1 and how do I round to the closest 100? What do you think? Minus two. Number three, end of month function. With the end of month function, you dynamically calculate with the end of the month based on your specified date. Now, this can be the but it can be the end of the next month's or previous month's. All of this can be To start with, EOMONTH. The start_date is the And the number of months you want to jump, in this case, it's the so I'm going to go with zero. Close bracket, press Enter. And I get a number back because I'm in the General format. So let's switch the and I get 31st of January. So let's just send this The last dates of the months Now, what if we want to get the last date of the next month? Well, that's easy. Start_date is this and the If you want to go backwards, In this case one, close and let's just copy the formatting of this to this and send this down. Number four, the EDATE function. The EDATE function allows into the future or in the past based on your specified date. So let's say we want to move into the future. We're going to start with EDATE, start_date is this one right here and for months, I'm just close bracket, press Enter and I get the 1st of March 2022. So notice the day is the same, the month and the year can be different. Let's just send this down and these are all 14 You can also move backwards. So if you wanted 14 we just have to change I'm just going to press Now, you can, of course, so if you wanted to move 14 months from the date but also you can just wrap this Your start_date is going to be this and for the months, I'm close bracket, press Enter and that's 14 months from this date but it always gives me Number five, the WORKDAY function. So let's say I have these days and I want to get the date that's seven business I need to make sure I exclude weekends and public holidays. The function you can use And there are two This is the updated version where you can pick your weekends because not all weekends in the world are Saturdays and Sundays. So in case your weekend is different, go with this one, it's more flexible. It requires a start_date, this is it, the number of days, well, or seven working days. Let's pick our weekends. These, in this case, so I'm going to go with and holidays is a list that you provided and I already have the list so I'm just going to select because I'm planning to Close the bracket, press Enter. And that's seven business Let's send this down and cross-check our April dates. My start_date is the 1st of April, seven business days gives Here I have a screen shot of the calendar. Let's start counting. That's one working day, two, So notice, the weekend is excluded but also the 5th of April because that's a holiday here. If it wasn't a holiday, so if I remove this, keep my end date is going to Number six, 3D formulas. The 3D formulas aren't functions but they're a shortcut Here I have a separate sheet for each account with different amounts and transaction numbers. I want to get the total of The long way of writing this is to write a separate SUM function and reference each of these sheets. The better way of writing this is to use a 3D formula. Just start off with equals, type in SUM and in this case, I'm using SUM because but you can use other functions, depending on your requirements. Now, let's go to our first sheet and select the range that we want. I'm going to go all the way to row 15 because some of our sheets have more data. Now, here comes the part that's important. Hold down the Shift key and then go to the last Take a look at the formula bar. It's going from the COGS sheet to the Non-Operating Expenses sheet. Everything else in the close bracket, press Enter and we get the same result. The advantage of doing it this way is that it's dynamic. If I happen to have another account, I'm going to drop Lease it's automatically going to be included in my total column. So in Lease, I have two values. This is the difference and the old version. Number seven, SUMIFS, and other IFS functions like And the great thing is that you can sum, get the average of or count values based on So in this case, let's say where account equals services. I can use the SUMIFS function. The first requirement is the sum_range, so this is the column in this case, it's the amount column. Now, I'm going to fix the cell referencing by pressing F4 because I want to copy my formula down. Next requirement is the criteria_range1. This is the range on which In this case, it's the account column. So I'm going to select Last requirement in this That's services, which is sitting in G3. Close bracket, press Enter. And that's the total amount Let's drag this down and where account equals But what if I want to That condition is based on the date column and I want to only add the amounts for the days after 15th of January and account has to be So I have two conditions. Well, it's very easy to We have criteria_range2. First is the range which In this case, it's the date column. I'm just going to be consistent and press F4 to fix this and then it's the actual criteria itself, which is sitting right here. Now, notice this is not just the date but I have the greater than sign in front because I want the days after this date. When I press Enter, I on these two conditions. Now, in case you don't want in the cell, you can but you have to put it in quotation marks. So this is where my criteria comes in. I want to put the greater than sign. I have to put it inside quotation marks. Then use the ampersand to connect the text with the cell reference. Okay, so keep this in mind if you're putting the Now, in the same manner, you can use the AVERAGEIFS, as well as the COUNTIFS functions. The only difference between is that you don't have the value range. It only counts your criteria. Number eight, the IF function. The IF function allows you to check for a condition and then decide on what you want returned and what you want returned So basically, you're not but you're checking for something and then deciding what you're returning. In this case, I have a list and I want to put the if my amount is greater than 20,000 because I want to flag those rows. Here I have a condition, so I'm going to use the IF function. Now, the first thing the IF function needs is the logical_test. This is what we're checking for. In this case I want to say if this number is greater than 20,000. So I'm going to type in 20,000 but it's good practice to put your numbers in separate cells because what your filter is and also be able to change it easily. Next requirement is what I want returned if this condition is true. So basically if this number is really greater than 20,000. Well, I want to return the word check and I have to put this in quotation marks because it's text. The last requirement is what I want returned if So if my number is less Well, in this case, I don't want I want to put nothing and nothing is quotation mark, quotation mark. Close bracket, press Enter. And in this case, I get nothing because this number is less than 20,000. Now, I'm going to send this down and we get two checks here. There is a lot that you can You can check for multiple conditions by nesting an IF function or you can also use the IFS function. Number nine, VLOOKUP. The VLOOKUP function allows you to look up a value in another range and return a corresponding value. So here I have account numbers, I'm missing description. I have the description Now, this information Just for simplicity, I so it's easier for us It starts off with VLOOKUP. First thing we need is the lookup_value. Which value are we looking up? It's this one right here. Next is the table_array. What is the range where we can find this value and what we want returned? Well, my range is right here. I just need the content, I don't need the headers. And important here is that the column where my lookup_value's sitting in has to be the first column. The column I want returned needs to be to the right-hand Now, they don't have to be stuck There can be other columns in between. In this example, I just Another important point is because I'm planning to Next requirement is the column index, which I want returned. Do I want to get back the first Well, my account description is sitting in the second column, so And last is important if I am looking for an approximate match or an exact match. The default is approximate, so if we don't put anything, and leave the formula, for an approximate match. This is something we definitely We want to go with an exact match. So select FALSE, close and we get the description back. Let's just send this down. If you have Office 365, you have an improved and it's called the XLOOKUP function. It's a lot more flexible and easier to use and if you need more information on that, I have a few videos on the channel. Number 10, the TRIM function. The TRIM function is when your VLOOKUP function doesn't look. So check this out. Here, just like before, we want to get the account description from this table right here. We're going to go with VLOOKUP, look_up value is our account code, table_array is this right here. We're going to fix it with the F4 key. I want to return the second column and I want an exact match. So I'm going to go with false. But now when I press Enter, it's not going to work. When I send this down, nothing works. Why? Well, take a look at our account codes. There is an additional space right here and some of our codes have This causes problems for VLOOKUP. What TRIM does is it So if I just type in TRIM here and reference the account code and just pull this down to here, notice that the first space is gone. Now, I'm just going to copy so that we can see in after the code are also gone. This means if I put the lookup_value inside the TRIM function, I can get rid of all of these extra spaces and my VLOOKUP function will work. This is something you might come across when you're extracting That was my list of basic But here's the thing, if has Excel for Microsoft 365, make sure you watch this video because those are amazing simple functions that will make your accounting Now, if you're an accountant and you have other tips please comment below and let us know. As usual, if you enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and if you're new here, welcome and consider subscribing so we get to see each other more often. (upbeat music)