There is a genius that could literally change the world. So-called forest gardens to overcome poverty, and it's already being of farmers in Senegal right now. These forests are not like They mix trees with fruits and vegetables to create Naturally, we wanted to help. So we partnered with Trees for the Future to plant 40,000 trees into these beautiful forest gardens that provide food to to countless animals, and bring How wide? Our trees are part of an ambitious project to create a forest frontier This wall of trees could stop combat climate change, Let's zoom in to show you how it's done and how the power of tree We are Planet Wild. This is Senegal, home to 17 million people and a plethora of fascinating wildlife from the tiniest insects and curious species, all the of the largest and most and one way or the other, all of them depends on trees Now, Senegal sits right where an abundance of sunlight can supercharge tree growth like in no other part of the globe. But in Senegal's tropical south, the landscape is red rather than green. Deforestation and have degraded the soil in many places. To make things worse, the dry season here lasts a full nine months during putting stress on wildlife We're here with Fatoumata our partner organisation in Senegal who have developed an amazing concept to turn the land green and this is how it all starts. Before we dive into the story, let me quickly tell you who we are. Planet Wild is a global that anyone can join to through monthly missions like this one. If you want to give back to nature, consider joining Planet Wild as a backer and help make our planet a as six bucks a month. And if you join today, I guarantee that you will support your within the next 30 days. There's a link in the description. Planting trees is one of the to fix our planet. Want to prevent soil erosion? Trees. Capture CO2. Create habitat, provide shade, retain water. Of course, we've all heard a There's been somewhat of and many people are trying to cut corners. I've looked at a lot of over the past years. If I learned anything, it's that just putting is not gonna cut it. If you want to do tree planting right, there's a few crucial things Number one, to boost biodiversity, make sure you plant a No monocultures. Number two, for an equitable process, it's important that the planting ideally, small holders or family farms. Number three, to make will still stand in 100 years, it needs to create a A forest that is more valuable for fuel will be And finally, number four, for the biggest effect on to be planting in the tropical zone. That's why we're here. We've partnered with Trees for the Future because they're doing all of the above in a truly amazing way. Working with thousands they created a four-year to empower farmers like Fatou, to transform the arid land that can feed their families and turn the land green year round. And the best part, all of this is done without any chemical 100% organic and circular through a fascinating Permaculture is kind of the opposite to the monoculture forests and fields that many of us have gotten so used to. There's a reason why nature It's because the more diversity the more resilient it as different plants provide and shelter to each other. And that's why in permaculture, fruits and grains are Here in Senegal, it all starts by planting and fast-growing pioneer to create protection from wind, sun, and storms for other plants to follow. This is called a living fence. Next, you place nitrogen-fixing to make the soil fertile. Then you add fruit and nut and shrubs that all together for the remaining topsoil. These papaya trees are only two years old and already five to six metres high. That is the power of the tropical sun. They now create a beautiful for other crops that can And instead of pesticides, or lemongrass are used and pest-deterring properties. The word perma refers to the idea that a garden planted this Here in Senegal, that means during the rainy season, but can produce food all year round as I learned from Abdulah was about to give up his Today, he has fruit all year round and even gives banana Another crucial part of permaculture is that it focuses on perennial plants. Those are plants that naturally That means there's no need for which destroys microorganisms and then leads to a dependence Permaculture instead relies of the land, allowing nature And as a result, it also Abdulah's food forest it has also become a beautiful and spend their free time together. And while the know-how is already here and the work is in the hands of each and every farmer, the is contributing as well by funding a total of 40,000 trees to be planted and help rapidly expand the green cover of food forests here in Senegal. We're here during the rainy season, the perfect time for tree planting. And I was kindly invited to of our community and get To help us better that are going on in these forest gardens and to share what we're learning with an even wider audience, we brought a special visitor with us. Andrew Millison is a veteran He runs the number one and teaches permaculture design - Trees are such an incredibly of agricultural system. We've got trees that are The trees are creating a microclimate that reduces the amount of water needs. They're dropping their leaf The trees are providing wind that might blow through here. The trees are providing for all types of species. I mean, just listen for a minute. Right, so this is really an example of an agricultural system that is supporting the wild ecosystem. - Seeing all of these we wanted to do even more. For this mission, we decided We will plant one extra for every one of you who leaves a comment before the end of the year. So go hit the comments section below, and let's plant even more trees together. - It's mind blowing the amount of benefits that we get from the trees. And it's also mind blowing the amount of tree diversity here, So before the project, if the rains failed or if there was some extreme rain event, they would lose their crop. I mean, they would go into poverty, into malnutrition very quickly. This tree infrastructure is providing yields throughout the year. So you could have a crop failure but there's 10 more tree so it really provides true food security. - Andrew actually did a whole where he takes a deep dive into some of the permaculture aspects. I highly recommend you go and watch it. We'll share a link at the end. Overall, we planted over which will support another crops, and vegetables. And the effect on the Like for the Deyanko had to skip meals regularly Now that has completely changed. They can even sell fruits on the market and generate enough income which was not possible before. Or for Mustafa who had to and move to the city where even after he finished university, he wasn't able to find work. Now he could return because the land is and he's so successful that he's actually expanding his farm. There are literally thousands Farmers who can use the extra to school or to start businesses, who are independent from buying and have become fully self-sustaining. With the trees provided by our community, we are helping hundreds of families to revitalise their degraded lands through the forest garden approach, increasing their income on average by 400% while boosting biodiversity What this mission shows is the importance of finding alignment and those of us that inhabit them. Our existence in the world once we understand how to work with nature rather than against it. Senegal's food forests and growing proof of that. You too can make our by joining Planet Wild as a backer. Together, we can bring clean up our oceans, and Our members can vote on connect with me and others on our Discord and see their impact and in videos just like this one. So make sure you set up today, there's a link in the description, and of course, a big thank you goes out to all our existing Planet Wild members for making any of this happen. You've just unlocked the in our app. Well deserved. If you want to watch some more, go check out Andrew's video right here, or watch another Planet All right, that's all from my side, see you all again next month. Over and out.