Mormons. Mormons made Utah weird--that's the answer. In a few more words: a century and a half insular state made Utah anomalous compared And in a few more words than that, well: on of its neighbors--it's a melange of the deep-red politics of Idaho and Wyoming; the and the ruggedly independent, outdoors-loving But it's also got some things its neighbors It's got... drive-thru soda shops. Utah pioneered this style of shop where instead "dirty-soda"--carbonated drinks mixed to make a cocktail-like concoction. In Salt Lake City, Swig, a leading dirty-soda Starbucks. The reason for this is that most of the half of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints--the revelations from God delivered to the church's Along with alcohol and tobacco, the text prohibits by the church to mean coffee and tea, regardless Therefore, to fill the role that coffee shops dirty soda instead and it's become such Texas, Oklahoma, and Arkansas as well. Other anomalies stem from the same text. For example, up until the 2002 Salt Lake City allowed--at all. Anything that functioned like a bar had to "temporary memberships" to allow entry. Restaurants, meanwhile, could have physical but only if they had so-called "Zion curtains." State alcohol laws prohibited establishments from allowing alcoholic drinks to be prepared this would help prevent excessive drinking under 21. Similarly, waiters were prohibited from proactively furnish it when asked. While these laws were eventually eased, Utah in America: it's the only state with a 0.05% rather than the standard, looser 0.08%; and sold exclusively through state-run stores In fact, all of these stores are closed each While a perfectly normal-day for the rest is what's called Pioneer Day--it celebrates to the Salt Lake valley. Across the state, this is celebrated almost parades, backyard parties, and evening fireworks. Fittingly, and perhaps pointedly, to accommodate celebrate Columbus Day each October--the Italian explorer to the Americas. Rather than celebrate European arrival to to Utah. The wall between church and state in Utah For example, each of Utah's public high request, up to an hour of so-called "released In practice, this means time for religious Utah law includes a litany of rules to make are not technically part of the public education first amendment. But day-to-day, Latter Day Saints seminary almost seamlessly. At Bonneville High School near Ogden, for street and it schedules its classes to correspond period, for example, one just walks across In fact, it's almost impossible to find At Dixie High School in St George, in fact, campus--while technically on its own property high school's parking lot, rather than its the high school and its baseball fields. It is quite literally unavoidable. Considered an inevitability, many new high seminary into their original architectural church without a second thought. After all, a strong majority of the Utah voting church and state controversial--it's just Among the US' two major political parties, a softer interpretation of the first amendment and government--for example, the majority should be allowed to put religious symbols Federal Government should flat-out stop enforcing So with a strong, deeply-religious voting Utah is an incredible Republican-party stronghold. Now, Utah is certainly known as a red-state. It feels right at home with its conservative but perhaps the part that would surprise is Based on self-reported party affiliation, In fact, among all states, Utah has the second as Republican, and the second-lowest portion Now, this statistic almost certainly surprises, feel, or even act like the second-most conservative Across the US, there is a consistent correlation the urban areas are Democrat strongholds, while rural areas lean Republican, gaining Therefore, on a state by state level, the have high portions of their electorate voting Yet Utah is the seventh most urbanized state lives in the Salt Lake City metro area, meaning Another broken correlation in Utah relates The Public Religion Research Institute conducts about support for nondiscrimination protection be legal protections preventing landlords, based on their sexual orientation or gender Fascinatingly, 86% of those surveyed in Utah The only state to boast higher support was state in the nation--was more in support illegal than the people of California, New stronghold. And this does not appear a statistical anomaly. After all, in 2015, the Utah legislature did had ever done: they passed a bill expanding From then on, sexual orientation and gender of employment and housing. The bill in question, SB296, was dubbed "the support by the Republican party and the Church the ACLU and the Human Rights Campaign. Of course, it was a true compromise--notably, and their affiliates like schools and hospitals meaning a religious school could theoretically on their gender identity. And in practice, this means that Brigham Young its codified prohibition of "same-sex romantic But simultaneously, the bill isn't an isolated Utah--in 2020, it once again became the first to ban conversion therapy in minors, and this of both the LDS church and LGBTQ advocacy And Utah's anomalous support for policies is not restricted to the matter of LGBTQ rights. Utah has also long been softly in support In 2002, it started to allow undocumented in the state to pay in-state college tuition In 2005, it passed a law that allowed for group. Still today, it's one of only twenty with went red in the last Presidential election. In 2019, Utah then tweaked the maximum penalty undocumented immigrants to avoid deportation it so fewer employers were required to check 2023 they expanded eligibility for taxpayer-funded immigrants. This culminated in this brief memo by the Enforcement's Salt Lake City Field Office those arrested by the Federal immigration officially designating Utah a "sanctuary Utah's leaders quickly shot back in sharp part out loud: for all its statistical conservatism, Now, Utah is far from a liberal bastion--the to pass a ban on transgender girls in women's even if it was later blocked by the state passed a series of laws allowing for the banning school libraries. But at the same time, polls conducted in Utah for expanded sex-ed beyond abstinence, and Utah politics break norms. Most policies in America sit on a spectrum on a state's legislature correlates cleanly left or right-leaning laws, yet Utah just It's like an alternate reality, it exists It's like they built a completely different But that means they've succeeded, because first group of pioneers came to the Salt Lake You can learn a lot about a place by its names. If one starts here, at Last Camp Site Monument, Donner Hill--where the ill-fated party spent on the right, then passing the Hogle Zoo--the of the present--on the left, there's a rises from the foothills. By its grandeur, its granite and bronze composition, to imagine this standing some 1,800 miles But look closer at the characters enshrined less the westward expansion of a nation, and It was here, or somewhere very near here, Young, the second president of the Church over the Salt Lake Valley and proclaimed that The place for what exactly, becomes clearer July of 1847. Before the shores of the Great Salt Lake served a myth. Fur trappers said they had seen it, but told It was massive, it was salty, it didn't drained through some sort of whirlpool feeding Like the towering heights of the Rockies and was properly a figment of a frightening American Following the fur-trading storytellers who pathfinding, mythbusting, military man John Tracing the lake's banks, rafting its waters, found the Great Salt Lake large in size, but It had fairly reasonable agricultural potential, His following report and published maps of to fill in a map that to Anglo-American eyes These journeys, sponsored by a westward bound in the halls of Washington DC. Curiously, they were also of interest to an in western Illinois. Mormon theology as any sort of holy land in The Great Salt Lake, after all, had yet to the golden plates--the foundational moment But something odd began to happen in the wake increasing regularity, accounts and excerpts of Nauvoo, where the Mormons had escaped to now needed to escape from. What made the flat lands along the Wasatch the 1840s it hardly existed on maps or in Unlike Illinois, Texas, California, or Oregon, overland trails, booming trade, or the rules, and agents that oversaw such budding developments. On the fringes of two young countries, each religion on the run from persecution and one of their beliefs found opportunity. Looking out over the valley beyond the Rockies, Spanish Trail, hemmed in by mountains, and Brigham Young declared this was the place a civilization to bloom the desert, for a ideal, but the Mormon ideal. And for the perfect Mormon city, well fortunately drawn up a plat map for the city of Zion in pure of heart to await the second coming. The new Salt Lake City residents did their Emanating from the temple's location, they accommodate church and municipal functions. Splitting these blocks were 132 foot-wide Farther from the core was housing, separated then 25-foot offsets for yards and gardens. Beyond the housing was room for agriculture With such land pushed to the southern edge for the time, ensuring that all saints were And as part of the shared city, the standard The emphasis on well maintained gardens and travelers as early as 1850 and those of the valley in 1877. While the buildings may be long gone, the And if it were difficult from above to pin the street names, be it 100 South or 300 East, they are from the temple. Salt Lake City, while the shining example, In Provo, follow the descending street numbers The same goes in Logan. The same also goes in St. George. Cities more or less in the image of the religion's values through design, does after all, make But ultimately cities whose existence in the theology. The settlers weren't just city builders, The dream didn't end with a Mormon city, With the US wrestling control of the southwest the confines of the US--a country whose laws like polygamy but didn't seem to protect and attacked the saints in the past. The best recourse, they figured, was statehood--something reliant on the rest of the nation, either. And as they fought for the expansive Great in Washington, they furthered their own self-sufficiency Until 2022, St. George's Utah Tech University Its nickname, until recently, was the Rebels. Located in Washington county in southwestern this region is called Utah's Dixie. And while stances over names, mascots, and region, the moniker of Dixie dates back to church's southern mission to grow warm weather cotton. At the same time that church officials were Young was pushing for self-sufficiency across tenuous connections to the American South Colonization as a strategy to self-sufficiency Mantua was founded to source flax, Minersville was founded for what its name would suggest. Of course, there is no state of Deseret, and in 1869 bringing goods and gentiles downplayed diversified the population. The arrival of troops, an army base, and a territory also ensured it'd stay tethered But the towns founded and families relocated such places. And so too does a social memory informed by informed by prior persecution, an understanding persecution, and continued sense of pride In its embrace of tourism, its ski industry natural parks, in its embrace of the Olympics, hordes of Westerners relocating within the in its founding has been paved over bit by This makes aspects of the state's differences, down beers, seem quaint, trivial, and randomly But here opinion on LGBTQ or immigrant rights the doors for a burgeoning dirty soda market, set of experiences now long mythologized that in the union can mirror. So ultimately, the seemingly anomalous actions certain, limited LGBTQ rights, but typically own discrimination towards the group. The church came out in vocal support for nondiscrimination yet is still largely opposed to same-sex marriage And through the years, the church has barely all it's changed is its view on how others This is pragmatic for LDS leadership's mission the church--public sentiment has changed members express majority support for marriage So the more it can be perceived as changing, the church. Similar logic underpins its support for expanded Most Mormon men go on a two-year mission somewhere convert individuals to the faith. A disproportionate number of the 400 or so given that this is the area of the world in This is also the area of the world that is to the US, so, according to a study done on pro-immigrant political view after a post the forces that drive undocumented immigration. And then in addition, the church seemingly and simultaneously find success in converting the strength of the church. In a society built by the church, it's no control. That control appears focused first and foremost scenarios where Utah deviates from national to the Mormon mission. The LDS church seemingly understands that as somewhat tolerant globally--not just by So Utah is a state that has all the legislative laws in the country, but its most powerful be against its own interests. The LDS church is small, so a certain degree often trumps any instinct to engage in exclusionary Weirdly, at times, this pulls Utah towards So put simply: Utah's differences stem from It's a relatively tiny, relatively new religion equivalents centered in the Vatican or Mecca. Therefore, their political influence is more Other churches that influence politics in political influence appears more firmly rooted LDS is a different church, and so Utah, itself, This topic was, at times, difficult to write are highly politicized in American media. With news outlets relying so heavily on advertising, days, they're incentivized to write highly that leads to readers spreading stories further Sometimes these stories might be true, but such a political slant--even if it's the I know that I'd rather get the accurate confirm my own beliefs, so that's why I They're a crucial tool to navigate the culture criticizing the Biden White House for declaring when that same date was also Easter. But if you look the story up on Ground News, reported on by right-leaning sources. Looking at center or left leaning outlets, the right-leaning sources are pushing are always the Transgender Day of Visibility, as it always does, and it just happened that In addition to their bias ratings, Ground structure of a given outlet and rates their Daily Signal, who's headline falsely pushes Visibility Day, already has a low factuality I really find Ground News makes me a better-informed for any news consumer. Right now, Ground News is offering 40% off called My News Bias. It's basically a dashboard for your news over time--from specific news outlets to This offer is only available at ground.news/wendover So sign up today for only $5 a month and see month, and help make the media landscape a