So... A few weeks ago, I heard something that really Tony Cascarino, an ex-Marseille player, who but has gone on record saying that he considers also said that Jude Bellingham reminds him watched... In fact, he has said that he believes he has I don't think I have to explain how impactful greatest midfielder of all time... As Cascarino would say... Bellingham and Zidane are the same height, same characteristic long stride and they're to any kind of pressure from the defenders... And personally that's exactly what I saw on to say "The thing is Zidane was never things he lacked... And Bellingham he has that... He might not be just as technically gifted And you know what's ironic... he finished things Bellingham has to improve in order Well, Bellingham has already scored 4 goals And the coincidences don't end there, when role model, he said Zidane... when they asked as a modern age version of himself... When Bellingham had to pick the number of 5 so Jude could have it, claiming that if more eerie than all of that, when Bellingham quick to notice that it resembled a goal Zidane And to wrap up all of this, there are rumors year, imagine Zidane coaching Bellingham... It would be like coaching himself... Who knows how much better Bellingham could million dollar player, he seems to have his of becoming the greatest british midfielder I sincerely think one day children will want he used to pretend to be Zidane when he was Actually, to be fair, until about the age football, despite his father Mark Bellingham for 20 different clubs and scoring over 700 In fact, he only began playing football, because more players... But as you may imagine, they were all shocked at the sport... Only a year later, he was already joining that passed, he began scoring more and more By the time he turned 10, he was already so the older kids, but naturally being a kid, the same team as his friends, so they set at the same time every weekend, he would play getting used to playing against tougher opposition... And it was all good, until one day he came age and ended up scoring 15 goals... Yes, 15 goals in a single half of football... After that, he just couldn't argue with be moved up and well... from there on out, At 13, he was already playing for England's At 15, he was already playing with Birmingham's By 16, he already caught the eye of the first as manager, he was instantly brought to the I saw him I knew he had to be there... Have I ever seen a 16 year old like him? Only once, his name was Lionel Messi"... And he wasn't the only one who saw his potential, Jude as one of the 50 most exciting teenagers only 49th on the list... but he was also younger interest from damn near every club in europe... Had to this a call up to the Syrenka Cup with his team to the trophy, even scoring in the and by the time he was back with Birmingham, Birmingham City's youngest ever debutant... thing is this was no novelty, no handout, said "He is already the best player in training, No player in the team can match Jude, he is Again, these are grown adults, professional child... Regardless, as he kept going things only looked a heavy 3 nil defeat he was named man of the On his third game, finally getting to play behind, he not only inspired the comeback, rightfully becoming the youngest goalscorer Add to this another goal in the next match being named the young player in the league... Of course, with the hype building up, it was all in for his signing, reportedly offering to give him a tour of the Carrington training at Birmingham for a while... Then, even with the season getting disrupted once football resumed, he even assisted a going down to the relegation zone with 2 games By the time the season was over, obviously join them, but as Birmingham's CEO would than anyone else, maybe twice as much... He was guaranteed millions in the back and Right there I knew this was no average player"... And so instead, impressed by the development opted to join Dortmund instead, for a fee expensive 17 year old in history... But here's where some controversy arrived... You see, upon his departure, Birmingham shocked Look, not only is that not really a thing but he was a 17 year old who played 44 matches a bit ruthless, calling Birmingham a tinpot for this strange decision... However, I gotta say, even though back then now it's clear that Bellingham is the best No one would be too upset if West Ham retired So in a way I think Birmingham were just ahead that sooner or later Bellingham would be one And once at Dortmund, they were pretty quick Delaney even noting that "Him and Haaland changes them completely... this mentality of winning, everywhere, all And so rightfully, on his debut for the club, to score, becoming the youngest ever to do 5 days later, he assisted Reyna against Monchengladbach named Bundesliga Rookie of the month... Things come easy when you're as good as And so two months later, he was called up time... becoming the third youngest to ever full year younger than Michael Owen, who is wonderkids in history... Ironically, he would debut against the Republic for through his dad's side of the family, Despite starting the year on the sidelines, on top of things, not just scoring against Champions League, but also winning the German best newcomer of the season and being named Becoming the youngest player from any nation Still, not only did he barely get any minutes, so you know... take that with a grain of salt... Regardless, his second season would start the comparisons once more, claiming he was then witnessing, as, with the departures of the team's star player, taking on the role at one point even getting into trouble after the referee over the fact he had been involved give a guy like that the biggest game in Germany... What did you expect?" which obviously the 40 thousand euros... But to be fair, I'm pretty sure everyone agrees Add to this the fact, he had put up 2 assists the scoresheet in his supercup match against in the Champions League and by the end of the Golden Boy Award for the best young player in both occasions, which I'm sure stinged Pedri is nearly a full year older than him And well, at least by the end of the season, despite the fact at times he even played in in the Bundesliga team of the season for the And just like that, we arrived at his final 19 years of age, he was handed the captain's the history of the bundesliga and sending form of his career up till that moment, starting in 21 matches... which only sounds crazier played his first ever world cup... So, with Kalvin Phillips struggling for minutes Bellingham to fill that void and well... it paid off... Right on the first match, Bellingham scored In the last 16, he opened the score with a he started the play that led to Kane's goal... Add to all of this a great performance vs knows what could have happened had Kane not Jude Bellingham was leading his team in everything progressive passes and even dribbles... it had been the best player on the team... And with the whole world watching, it was hold onto him for much longer... And so following 2 months where the most memorable mistakes, addressing another controversial Mourinho's iconic "I prefer not to speak", of the table, only for Jude to then be sidelined injury, watching as his teammates failed to the title to rivals Bayern Munich in what 11 years... Well, let's just say first Bellingham left a way to leave the club for good... Regardless it has to be said, it was a phenomenal title, the 19 year old not only led the league he was also top 3 when it came to tackles more than twice as much as he had managed even enough to earn him the award for the compliments from both Mourinho and Guardiola, about Bellingham" and the other saying, it's unbelievable, what a fantastic player".... And so rightfully, after a long back and forth and paid 103 million dollars, which could Bellingham a Galactico at the age of only As Peter Drury would say, Bellingham, from In fact, Birmingham were lucky enough to have this transfer... But yeah, though everyone expected him to in 18 hundred minutes of playing time in the Real Madrid, no one expected what would happen and beyond what anyone expected from his debut getting 2 goals and an assist on his second match to become the third ever player to score only matched by Sneijder and the great Cristiano Not only that, but he has been named man of for Real so far, all of his goal contributions earning them 5 of the 9 points they have collected one of the most loved players in the squad, times better than I was last season" and Though I have to say his father ruptured his tend to be genetic, so be careful Jude...