[ INTRO ] The role of a scientist is to make observations, do experiments, and form hypotheses about how and why things happen. Sometimes, thousands of years of evidence But many people have struggled to understand reasons -- from preconceived notions about So it's fun to look back at whose ideas though we now know these 5 scientists were Born in 1862, William B. Coley was a bone He had seen many a patient die even after Physicians knew that rapidly-dividing cancer But the mechanics behind metastasis, where and start growing somewhere else, weren't So Coley was determined to find a more effective He began looking through records at the New And he came across a patient from 1883, who That tumor seemed to vanish after the patient usually caused by Streptococcal bacteria. Coley tracked that patient down and found And he found dozens of papers describing infections So in 1891, Coley injected Streptococcal bacteria what seemed like a miraculous recovery. Now, keep in mind that the ethics of many questionable or nonexistent. And this was no exception. After this first success, Coley kept trying. And while his next few patients had tumor Coley published those findings. And then he tried to make his technique less Strep species with another bacterium. The mixture became generally known as Coley's He treated nearly 1,000 cancer patients over than 150 papers about his work. Although Coley was often reportedly successful, For instance, he switched up the bacteria didn't reliably follow up with treated patients. Needless to say, this led to a great deal Which totally makes sense. In 1894, the Journal of the American Medical Coley's work a failure. It reported that "no well-authenticated of toxic injections. But Coley continued to practice with his toxins And by then, other doctors had started using Even Journal of the American Medical Association In 1934, they agreed that these toxins may cancer. Once radiation and chemotherapy came around disappeared. In 1962, the FDA refused to back it as a legitimate It wasn't until the 1980s that researchers We started to understand ways the immune system dividing cancer cells, and now scientists Just... not with a bunch of questionably harmful [2. Francis Peyton Rous] From 1909 to 1911, scientist Francis Peyton discovery in the field of virology. At the time, though, his work didn't gain Rous was working at The Rockefeller Institute a hen with a massive tumor. Apparently that's the kind of thing that research back then? Scientists were already starting to think things, based on observations of cervical avian leukemia. These ideas weren't given too much attention But Rous was curious to see if material from healthy chicken. And it did. To learn more, Rous passed more tumor material And he found the same thing: When he injected goop, it developed a tumor. At the time, this was enough evidence to rule So it led Rous to hypothesize that a virus Rous kept at this research, and found that So this hen wasn't just a strange case study. Unfortunately, the scientific community's didn't really make a splash. And there were bigger fish to fry: the U.S. his focus to blood transfusions and making Over a decade after the war, Rous's research was reinvigorated. And he was part of a team that discovered Still, progress was slow until the 1950s, was discovered by researchers. Reverse transcriptase helps convert RNA carried the host's genome to churn out more viruses. Like how HIV works. With more molecular mechanisms coming to light, Scientists were studying how viruses can cause -- the genes that can cause a normal cell And in 1966, at 87 years old, Rous was awarded marking the longest time between a discovery [3. Ignaz Semmelweis] who began practicing in Vienna in 1844. Semmelweis worked in obstetrics, delivering after birth. And he observed that people who had midwives rate of 2%, compared to the much higher 13-18% Those deaths were largely due to puerperal the reproductive tract, which set in one day Giving birth can cause quite a bit of bodily infection. And this was back in the day when handling medical students and physicians. So Semmelweis hypothesized that people not and delivering babies caused this sickness Semmelweis instituted a hand washing policy of lime solution, which killed bacteria and After that, the mortality rate dramatically babies. And eventually, Semmelweis disinfected the But Semmelweis's superior was not a fan He believed that the hospital's new ventilation That fit the popular miasma theory of disease "bad air." So Semmelweis basically got shunned from the became head of obstetrics at a hospital there. He instated hand washing for doctors and nurses rates. In 1861, Semmelweis wrote a book about puerperal the medical community didn't bat an eye. And a few years later, he died in a mental Presumably, of frustration. It took researchers like Joseph Lister, Louis the idea that microbes like bacteria can cause So even though recognition came too late, of mothers" because of his strong belief And he's still being honored today. Including by us, thank you. [4. Gregor Mendel] Gregor Mendel was born in 1822. He was an Augustinian friar living in what's Mendel is best known for his experiments with He bred them and studied seven main traits, shape and color. He didn't know it at the time, but this These pea plant traits were only determined gene. Usually genetics are much more complicated But because they were pretty straightforward, For example, a tall pea plant bred with a But if he bred those offspring, around a quarter Words like "allele," and "gene" didn't radical at the time. So Mendel called these things that influenced Each parent had two of them, and passed one And he came up with recessive and dominant in offspring. Plus, he proposed that different traits, like by different genes that are passed down independently. All these ideas were wildly different from Scientists were all-in on blending inheritance, of their parents. Like, if one parent has dark brown hair and have light brown hair. So even though Mendel published his work on recognition for it and just sort of... went Around 1900, over a decade after Mendel's and discovered Mendel's then-obscure paper Two also worked with peas, one worked with And they all saw Mendel's work as validation In the early 1900s, our understanding of cells And eventually Mendel became known as the [5. Alfred Wegener] In the early 1900s, German geophysicist, meteorologist, the idea of continental displacement, now Wegener came across a paper in 1911 that talked either side of the Atlantic ocean. At the time, things like that were explained continents in the past and then sank into But Wegener did not buy it. He also noticed that maps of coastlines of and so did geological features like mountain There were also other weird fossils that suggested fern fossils discovered on an Arctic island. And all those observations planted a seed joined together but drifted apart. In 1915, Wegener's book, The Origin of Continents In it, he coined the term Urkontinent, meaning This became Pangea, roughly meaning "all Although Wegener wasn't the first to suggest so with more evidence than before. But he was met with resistance, because there One major flaw was that he couldn't explain Wegener believed they just sort of plowed Which, by the way, we now know was very very So I guess you can't really blame his contemporaries In the wake of this "meh" reaction, Wegener and died at a young age on an expedition to So he wasn't around in the 1950s and 60s, about the ocean floor, Earth's crust, and The idea of plate tectonics began to take drift didn't sound so controversial after So science isn't a straightforward path and sometimes hypotheses hold up decades after Thanks for learning about these scientists to our patreons on Patreon for helping us So if you want to join our community and support [ OUTRO ]