Anna Tavis: All right. Let's have people Anna Tavis: come in. Anna Tavis: Welcome. Anna Tavis: Welcome, everyone. We'll give people time to trickle in. We know it's Anna Tavis: The end of the workday on the east coast or wherever you are. Anna Tavis: So let's Anna Tavis: Let's have everyone join Anna Tavis: just as a reminder for those of you joining Anna Tavis: that as we go through this presentation and conversation with our speakers. Please Anna Tavis: put your questions, thoughts. Anna Tavis: any sort of insights that you gain into the Q&amp;A. Section Anna Tavis: in the webinar, and we will make sure that we will make Anna Tavis: make it a discussion more than a presentation. Anna Tavis: so that all the questions are, answered. Anna Tavis: And we know it takes a little bit of time for people to finish their meetings and come in, so we'll start in a couple of Anna Tavis: minutes. Anna Tavis: and as people are joining in, would you mind Anna Tavis: just in a chat, saying where you were joining from, so that we have Anna Tavis: an idea of where where people are time, zone, wise and Anna Tavis: everything else Anna Tavis: kind of make. Make it a little bit more of a community. Anna Tavis: And now we'll take it from there. Anna Tavis: Yeah. Anna Tavis: one of our speakers, Guy Hand, is actually in Paraguay today. Anna Tavis: Any specific place? Arizona? Fantastic. Anna Tavis: And then, you know, I suspect oh, we we have Anna Tavis: Akiko from from Japan. Oh, welcome Anna Tavis: New Jersey. Yeah. So we are all over all over the place. Palo Alto, Toronto, Phoenix, Phoenix. Wow! Anna Tavis: Terrific Halifax! Anna Tavis: So, as you can see, we're very, very internationally dispersed crowd, lots of interest. Anna Tavis: and all the more important for us to speak about proximity. Right as we're so, you know, spread out again around the world. So let me get started. I know that people are going to be coming in. Anna Tavis: I'm Anna Tavis, your host for today. Department chair and clinical professor here at New York University, in New York City Anna Tavis: and Anna Tavis: we host rethinking work series. And our guests today are well, world renowned experts in Anna Tavis: strategy, innovation, entrepreneurship Anna Tavis: investment. Anna Tavis: so couple of introductions, Kaihan Kippendorf. Anna Tavis: who actually did teach for us we remember that. And really grateful. Anna Tavis: Is a global business strategist founder of the outthinker strategy network. Anna Tavis: And he's helping Fortune 500 companies. Anna Tavis: To think away from conventional strategies and really tap into innovative growth approaches. He's a Anna Tavis: world renowned speaker and author of multiple books and publications. And he's Anna Tavis: focusing on strategic thinking. Anna Tavis: For organizations in the Anna Tavis: era of very rapid change. Anna Tavis: and his co-author. Anna Tavis: Rob Lawcourt. Anna Tavis: is a professor, adjunct professor of innovation at the University of Chicago Booth school of business, as well as Kellogg's school of management Anna Tavis: and the co-founder of the World Innovation network. Rob also Bridges Academia and active venture investing. Anna Tavis: He dedicated himself to Anna Tavis: guiding Anna Tavis: companies on how technology transforms business landscapes. Anna Tavis: And here they're here to talk about their latest book. Anna Tavis: on proximity, the proximity revolution. And on this note, here's how it's going to go. Anna Tavis: We're going to have kind of a grounding in what the book is about that Rob is going to share, and Kyan and Rob are going to talk about it, and then we are going to have a conversation about what it all means to us, to the future work Anna Tavis: and to the business at large. On this note. Anna Tavis: please take it away. Rob Wolcott: Great thanks, Anna. It's it's great to be here, and thanks for your support and the center support throughout the development and the launch of proximity. Rob Wolcott: What? What you do in the future of work by definition affects all of us. So we're pleased to be here. So Kyan and I decided, I'm going to spin up the concept and and give you the basic idea for 2025 min or so, and then we'd love to have A. Q. And A. But as you opened on a mentioning, there are people joining us right now from multiple continents, in fact. Rob Wolcott: and I remember early on Rob Wolcott: in Covid. I was having a conversation with a colleague in another con on another continent Rob Wolcott: about proximity, and I was explaining what this proximity thing was, and a basic punchline, and I'll get back to the detail later is that proximity asserts that digital technologies compel the creation of value Rob Wolcott: ever closer to the moment of actual demand. And so we're talking about this, and my colleague, who was in London at the time, said, Well, you know that sounds nice, Rob, but what's going on right here on this zoom screen is that this doesn't feel very proximate. Rob Wolcott: I mean, I'm in London, and you're at the time I was in Evanston, Illinois, and I said, Well, that's true. But in fact, this this proves what we're talking about. What what I mean is. Rob Wolcott: it doesn't matter where we physically sit. The value Rob Wolcott: is being created right here on the screen between the 2 of us. Rob Wolcott: and this is something that a decade ago was very rare, I mean, we remember 10 years ago, if somebody was joining on a conference call, you know you were in the office. You're in the meeting room. There was that little thing that sat in the middle of the table, and there was a voice, a disembodied voice on it, and no one paid any attention to it. That was probably, you know, Jim, who was on vacation, but really needed to join the meeting, so everybody kind of ignored Jim. Rob Wolcott: and then everybody's having the meeting, and occasionally this voice would pop up, and people say, Oh, I think Jim's trying to say something, and they would, you know, act intently for a minute and then get back to the meeting. Well, now, today, the zoom, the team, it's a it's a normal course of business. So this is actually illustrative of Rob Wolcott: proximity. So where this concept came from originally Rob Wolcott: was, I was at a conference in 2014, a technology conference, and it didn't feel like we were getting much foresight because people kept saying the same things like a decade from now, a trillion devices will be connected. Okay, well, that's fine. But I think we already know that I don't think you need to tell us that Rob Wolcott: we need better foresight because we're all here trying to figure out how to place bets. We're trying to figure out what to invest in what to do with these technologies that are rising all over the place. Rob Wolcott: And so it occurred to me to ask a question from my my years ago study of economics, and that is in economics. There's something called the general purpose tool. Rob Wolcott: It's Gpt, but that's a coincidence chat. Gpt is generative, pre-trained transformer. So in any case, a general purpose tool is any technology or set of technologies that can be applied across an economy to a whole range and variety of different things. So think the steam engine, for instance, or the electric dynamo, and when you can discern the operating requirements and opportunities of a steam engine compared to an electric dynamo. Rob Wolcott: you can actually start to predict the future. Rob Wolcott: So the question became Rob Wolcott: what is fundamentally different about how digital technologies operate. And by digital Kaihan and me, and I mean everything you'd think of. And more so certainly, mobile apps. AI, 3, D printing rooftop, solar, controlled environment, agriculture, anything that is digitally enabled. Rob Wolcott: So digital technologies compared to the industrial age Rob Wolcott: digital technologies allow us to compress capabilities of all sorts into smaller and smaller packages, and distribute them all over the economy ever closer to each moment in time and space. And so, therefore, and this is proximity. Rob Wolcott: therefore Rob Wolcott: digital compels the creation of value ever closer to the moment of actual demand. And and note that Kaihan and I aren't just saying we need to respond faster to customers, or use AI to deliver your packages better. That's all great stuff, but it's a far more profound Rob Wolcott: trend, and it is predictive of where every industry is going. And that's the case that we make in the book. So I'll transition. If I could do the, you know, make the technology work here and try and share the slides. Can you see that. Anna Tavis: Yes. Rob Wolcott: Great. So, as I said, this journey started in 2014, and we started to unpack this notion of the distributed, coordinated nature of digital. And then how it compels value creation ever closer to the to each individual customer user in a market. And we realized that there were a few distinctions that were really important. So one was we make in the book, especially in Chapter 2, Rob Wolcott: we make a clear distinction between the production Rob Wolcott: of product services, experiences Rob Wolcott: and the provision of products, services and experiences. So production would mean would be making something, writing, something, creating something. Rob Wolcott: Provision could be supply chain sales, support, service distribution, that sort of thing. Rob Wolcott: And when you think about that, you realize there are many ways in which our lives are already very proximate. So the easiest way to think about this would be video streaming. So we all know Netflix today, you can, you can essentially watch any video you want anytime anywhere in any device. Netflix, Youtube Disney plus you name it. So the provision of video content is for the most part entirely proximate already. Rob Wolcott: But what is not yet Rob Wolcott: entirely proximate is the production of video content. Rob Wolcott: So that content was probably produced months ago, or or maybe decades ago. If you're watching Citizen Kane. Rob Wolcott: But where are we right now Rob Wolcott: in the generative AI revolution, we're just at the knee of the curve. Rob Wolcott: For where generative AI can create Rob Wolcott: video content on demand, and even on a for an audience of one. Rob Wolcott: So this is just an example. And there's no sound of this video except except my voice. This video was created on Sora with a few prompts in less than an hour. Rob Wolcott: And, by the way, there are no woolly mammoths, so it would have been hard to call, you know. Call your animal provider in La, and get a bunch of woolly mammoths to to do some video work. Rob Wolcott: This was created in just moments. Now it's still early. Rob Wolcott: But imagine where we'll be in 10 years, 20 years. Rob Wolcott: we will have the ability to create video content on demand for an audience of one from whole cloth. Rob Wolcott: And and this is not a guess. This isn't well. I wonder if what we know this is going to happen? We don't know when exactly. Rob Wolcott: We don't know who's going to win, but we know it's coming. Rob Wolcott: So this. Anna Tavis: Rob, Rob, if I just could say I you know again I'm here at a conference in Hollywood. Anna Tavis: and we just had a presentation from Nvidia that actually is working on this personalization right now. So this is already available. So it's not just going to be Netflix with a, you know, a huge database of those movies. But those movies are going to be extremely personalized to the views. Yeah. So I'm. Rob Wolcott: Absolutely. I mean I I was jealous when you said you were at this Infinity Conference in in La. I mean, 1st of all, I wonder what infinity feels like that's got to be, you know. Rob Wolcott: pretty broad. But second, it's when you start to digress on this for a second. When you start to combine that capability of generative AI Rob Wolcott: with virtual reality. Rob Wolcott: Imagine where that will go. And actually, in in the book we talk about this in the final chapter, the chapter about virtual reality in space. Rob Wolcott: and those are our conclusions, because those are the 2 horizons of the 21st century. Those are 2 places. Humanity has never been before. But we're going this century, and we don't have time to talk about it today if you want to in Q&amp;A when you can create whole lived experiences in wholly experienced virtual reality in 1020, 30 years. Rob Wolcott: then you literally can create from whole cloth and entire lived experiences. So in the book we separate different what Kahan and I call realms of life. So we look at proximity and how it's impacting and rolling out in, how we work, eat, create, and produce, how we prevent and cure, how we power and how we defend. Rob Wolcott: And they each work a little differently. They're all driving toward proximity, but they have very different characteristics. Rob Wolcott: So as as I provide some opening examples from a variety of industries. Rob Wolcott: and as you and I agreed. I'm not going to talk much about the future of work in these remarks, but after this we'll have a conversation. So what I'd love for people to think about, because then Kyhan and I are eager to learn from you and your colleagues because you're in the middle of this every day. Rob Wolcott: How might work change Rob Wolcott: in an increasingly proximate world? Rob Wolcott: The way I like to think about that question Rob Wolcott: and that objective is the objective for work is, how do I bring the best people and systems? So could be AI? It could be any sort of technology or process. Rob Wolcott: How do we bring the best people and systems to the right objectives Rob Wolcott: wherever, whenever. Rob Wolcott: to me, that's the essence of proximity in a context of work. Rob Wolcott: And just to give a brief foreshadowing. Rob Wolcott: Kyhan and I are, you know. Rob Wolcott: reasonably competent, pretty smart. We can kind of figure out a whole range of industries, but we also know that we need to refer to to people who really know their stuff. So in each of the how we chapters. Rob Wolcott: we work together to find a couple of super experts in the food industry or in the defense space or in power generation, or in this case in work. And so for the research for the book, we asked John Breeman from Wtw. To read the how we work chapter and comment on it, and challenge us, and Push Rob Wolcott: and John and I have known each other for years. So we had a number of conversations about what proximity could mean for work, and he said something. I think that's rather profound, which is changing, where changes, how. Rob Wolcott: And so maybe that's something we can come back to Rob Wolcott: in this concept of proximity Rob Wolcott: you will increasingly have. And this is the trend for the rest of our careers across every industry in different ways, anything. Rob Wolcott: anytime, anywhere. That's sort of the punchline Rob Wolcott: of proximity. So let me start with. Rob Wolcott: let me start with software. And by the way, this applies, proximity applies to products, services and experiences, digital or not. But let's start in the digital realm. So back in 2017 I wrote an article complaining that Rob Wolcott: people kept saying, if we just teach kids how to code, they'll have a job for life. And and I got increasingly upset about that, because that's that's that's not true. Rob Wolcott: Now, it's really it's great to know how computers work, and great to know how to do some coding. Don't get me get me wrong. But the notion that we'll just teach kids how to code, and they'll have a job for life is ridiculous, and then I heard so usually I would hear politicians say this, so you can kind of, you know. Cut them some slack. They're doing their best. But but then I heard the CEO of Apple, who's brilliant. Rob Wolcott: say this? And so I wrote an article and posted it in quartz, entitled Later this century, knowing how to code will be like knowing ancient Greek. Rob Wolcott: it'll be really impressive, but only good for very specific purposes. And so, as a result of that I was contacted by Gary Hoberman, who was the CIO of Metlife at the time, and he was just at that moment stepping down from his job at Metlife to start uncork. Rob Wolcott: to be what he shared with me, a leader in the no code movement. Rob Wolcott: and and I have to admit in 2017. I didn't even know there was a no code movement. I didn't know what that was, but, he, said, Rob, it's it's the movement to create platforms to allow Rob Wolcott: people to create and operate enterprise grade software without having to know how to code at all. Rob Wolcott: I'll think about that. And when he says enterprise, grade compliance software. Their clients are insurance companies and banks. Rob Wolcott: So the the threshold for compliance doesn't get higher than an insurance company. And so what does this mean? Well. Rob Wolcott: in the old days, you you needed software. You probably spent months doing business and technology requirements, documents. And you did an Rfp. Or maybe your internal team tried to develop the software. Rob Wolcott: It took a very long time, and by the time you were done it often wasn't what you thought you wanted Rob Wolcott: with a no code platform like uncork. And there there are others today. Right now you can sit down. You don't have to know how to code at all. And you can create software to run your business within a matter of weeks or even days. Rob Wolcott: And when I say it's it's real. Today, they I can't tell you exactly, because it's a private company, but they've passed a hundred 1 million dollars in revenues. So this is a real thing. Rob Wolcott: And back in 2017, when Gary founded the company he couldn't find a single venture capitalist willing to invest in his concept. Rob Wolcott: A year later he had Google and Goldman Sachs as investors and partners. Rob Wolcott: Fortunately, thankfully, I invested along the way as well as a venture investor, and then, a couple years ago, they had a series C round with a 2.1 billion dollars, 2 billion dollars market cap, 2 billion dollars valuation. Rob Wolcott: And so this is real. And think about what this means from a work perspective or a proximity perspective. Rob Wolcott: When you can take that multiple month cycle of developing and rolling out software. And then it's kind of hard kind of kind of hard coded, and if you want to change it, it's often difficult. Rob Wolcott: Contrast that with a platform that allows you to create and operate and iterate software in a matter of days or weeks. And it's already real. Rob Wolcott: Now, let's shift for a little bit to physical products. Rob Wolcott: Today, we have a global supply chain optimized for scale manufacturing at a distance. In other words, the larger my plant, the lower my costs not always true, but for the most part Rob Wolcott: over the rest of our careers. This model will be ripped apart. Rob Wolcott: It will become what we call hybridized. So we'll still have large plants in China and Mexico, Us. Germany, of course, where it makes economic sense. But we will also have midsize plants distributed closer to demand for certain kinds of products. We'll have certain products produced in urban areas, right where people live, and eventually on your counter at home. Rob Wolcott: If you think for a second the the old model, how difficult it is to buy one matching fork. Rob Wolcott: You kind of really can't in the current model. With rare exceptions, those forks are made in China many months in advance and put on a ship and into inventory, and then hopefully, Amazon or crate and barrel has what you want, where you want it, and you're probably going to buy 12 in a package. Rob Wolcott: But today it is already technologically trivial to download a design file and print one matching fork. Rob Wolcott: So what we're finding. And I and I've been tracking this for some time. It's accelerating right now, Anna. We we always see new technologies hit that hype cycle and everybody gets all excited. Oh, my gosh! 3D printing! And you remember this was probably 5 or 10 years ago. It had a couple of fits and starts. Rob Wolcott: And then, a few years later, people say, Oh, see, I told you that's not really going to work. It only works for little plastic baubles and things like this. Rob Wolcott: Well. Rob Wolcott: through that process a bunch of companies go out of business for sure, but some of them rise up and some of them get better. Rob Wolcott: And we're not just talking about startups. Ford Motor Rob Wolcott: reported in their annual report last year for the year. Before that they had made 200,000 parts for automotive using 3D printing. Rob Wolcott: so as we use it, it gets better and better Rob Wolcott: as we use it. We climb the learning curves, and over time. People find economically viable applications for these things, and they start to incur into markets and change the game. And meanwhile, Anna, what do we have? We have the decline Rob Wolcott: of pox. Americana. Rob Wolcott: It's 1 thing to build global, highly optimized supply chains when you have, when you have peace and stability in your supply lines. Rob Wolcott: But that become they become very brittle Rob Wolcott: when you have issues, geopolitical issues, climate, severe climate events, perhaps Rob Wolcott: pandemics. So we're seeing these are catalyst accelerating proximity. Rob Wolcott: But what enables us to do? It is digital technologies which allow us to do things we could never have done before. So, to give you a tangible example. This is the largest vertical farming operation in the world today it's in Dubai. Rob Wolcott: In late 2022, I had the opportunity to visit to speak in Sharjah, and then do some some research meetings Rob Wolcott: I met with this team. The company's called Bustanica. It's my a few miles from the Dubai airport. They grow Rob Wolcott: some of the best leafy greens and herbs I've ever had in my life really impressive. But here was the exciting part. When I got on my Emirates Airlines flight the next morning back to New York. The lettuce in my salad had been picked in this building the night before. Rob Wolcott: Now think about this. So this is a partnership Rob Wolcott: with Boost between Bustanica and Emirates Airlines. Rob Wolcott: Think about this. Rob Wolcott: The Emirates explained to me that the unit cost of each head of lettuce in this facility is much higher than it would be if they did it. The traditional way. Now that makes sense, everybody talks about that. But they said when they did the overall system math. Rob Wolcott: and they, you know, compare that to growing the lettuce in Spain, harvesting it in advance, putting it on a ship, taking it to a warehouse. Rob Wolcott: wasting about a 3rd of it, which is what we do every year all over the world. We waste about a 3rd of all food produced. Rob Wolcott: and then, hoping you have a good product for your consumer. Rob Wolcott: Compare that with growing only what you need. Rob Wolcott: near where you need it Rob Wolcott: you you eliminate almost all waste Rob Wolcott: and 98% less water to grow these leafy greens. And the consumer gets a far better experience. That's proximity. Rob Wolcott: and it's been so successful for emirates Rob Wolcott: earlier this year. After we finished the manuscript for the book earlier this year, they announced they were buying 100% of bustanica. So they're integrating this not just near their hub airport, but they're starting to think about how to do it. Rob Wolcott: Well, beyond Rob Wolcott: now. Rob Wolcott: I'm very excited about this company. I just came back from the New World Space Conference at Houston Space Center, and Barbara was there. So I've known Barbara for a very long time. Barbara is a venture capitalist and French venture capitalist and plant scientist. Rob Wolcott: and I didn't know this originally, but she's always been in love with space. So in 2018 she called me. We had a catch up call, and she said, Rob. Rob Wolcott: I would like to figure out how to grow food on Mars. And I said, I'm sorry. It sounds like you said, grow food on Mars. And she said, This is what I said. And I said, Wow! Well, that's really neat science experiment, Barbara. And she knew I wasn't going to invest in that. I don't have a 60 year time horizon. But she had just gotten a big grant from NASA, and that work continues today. In fact. Rob Wolcott: Interstellar Lab was just selected by NASA amongst 300 competitors, to be the company that provides food growing Rob Wolcott: on the ship and then eventually on Mars for the pilot launch in a couple of years, so that they're making a lot of progress there, but Barbara and her team were smart enough to know that they need a real business back here on Earth. Rob Wolcott: and so they made a list of all of the high value added Rob Wolcott: low volume ingredients derived from plants, so all of the very high value, very low volume ingredients derived from plants Rob Wolcott: used by various industries. So it turns out they're located right outside Paris, which is great because who uses these products skincare cosmetics, fragrances. Rob Wolcott: And so just to give you make this more tangible. This pod exists, and there are many more like it now. But this pod exists just outside the Bonneux in Paris. This is us inside the pod. Barbara's giving us a tour, and my daughter's pointed out that that's my thumb in the picture. But you know, anyway, so in this pod, they're optimizing the growing conditions for each individual plant. Rob Wolcott: the right amount of water, humidity, everything to increase the expression of very specific chemicals. And, to give you an example. Rob Wolcott: this this plant here is called Vertiva. Rob Wolcott: It provides an essential ingredient for l'oreal for many of L'oreal's products. So l'oreal is a customer of interstellar lab as is Firmenish as is Robite, the largest ingredients company in the world. Rob Wolcott: And what? Why, l'oreal's interested in this. Rob Wolcott: Currently they source the ingredient, from Vertiva, from the roots of vertivais Rob Wolcott: from Indonesia. So the the plant grows in Indonesia, they rip the plant out of the ground, chop the roots off, extract the chemical, and send it to wherever their manufacturing facilities are. Rob Wolcott: In this pod the pod actually sits in their manufacturing facility. Rob Wolcott: and Rob Wolcott: it grows exactly what they need, where and when they need it. Rob Wolcott: they're completely absolved of any supply chain risk. They're not worried about what's going on in the Red Sea. They're not worried about extreme climate events, at least not for this product. Rob Wolcott: They get exactly what they need, where and when they need it. And here's the exciting part Rob Wolcott: Vertiva has already shown in the pod to have over 1,000% higher yield Rob Wolcott: for this ingredient than in traditional. The traditional path, and and most of the plants that they're running through these pods. They're getting 1,000 2,000 3,000% higher yield. Rob Wolcott: So Barbara and her team don't sell the pods. They install the pods in manufacturing facilities and they manage them remotely. Rob Wolcott: collecting data from each individual, plant. Rob Wolcott: optimizing growing conditions, increasing yields. She calls it hardware as a service. Rob Wolcott: So because of digital technologies, AI, monitoring sensors, etc, they're able to manage networks of these pods, giving the manufacturers exactly what they need, where and when they need it. Rob Wolcott: Now I'm going to bring this all together. This proximity Rob Wolcott: concept and share the story quickly, share the story of a company that is leveraging proximity across their entire strategy. Now, to be clear. Rob Wolcott: Rick Smith and Josh Isner, the founder, CEO, and the President of Axon did not know about proximity until I contacted them a little while back, and I went down and had an interview with them. This will be an article out in Forbes. Probably this weekend about Axon. Rob Wolcott: But Rob Wolcott: nonetheless, I've been following them for some time the past few years, because it's clear that they this is what they have in mind. We're going to give their. They're going to give their customers exactly what they need, where and when they need it. Rob Wolcott: faster and better than everyone else, and Rob Wolcott: it doesn't matter what the technologies are that are rising. Their mission objective is to take whatever technologies are going to achieve their customer objectives best Rob Wolcott: and figure them out and lead all right. So let me give you a little bit of the background. 1st of all, when you go to Axon in Scottsdale, Arizona. It's an unusual experience, because Rick Smith, the founder, is sort of like Tony Stark iron man in a lot of ways. He's in love with Sci-fi. Rob Wolcott: so I showed up in their headquarters, and this is the entrance. I don't know if any of your any of your team, your your colleagues here online recognize it, but it's essentially men in black. Rob Wolcott: And you walk in. And there's a facial recognition thing, and it says, Welcome, Robert and the doors open like this, and and I asked the director of Comms Alex. Angle when I got there, what what's up with that? And she said, well, Rick said he wanted his entrance to look just like men in black. So that's what he got. So it's like this sci-fi environment. And it's important to their to their business and their innovation and their creativity. But Rob Wolcott: how did this all come together? Rob Wolcott: Axon started with tasers, so Rick was trying to mitigate the use of bullets and firearms in policing, trying to protect lives, to achieve the mission without killing people. And so he pioneered the taser which we all know of, and the company grew for some time. Rob Wolcott: but over time they added more and more capabilities. So later on they added, the police body cam, which we're all familiar with collecting data and video and sound from interactions all day long. And as they were doing that, they're collecting databases of all these interactions and doing analytics and using AI to understand what's working, what's not working where the issues, etc. And then Rob Wolcott: back in 2017, Rob Wolcott: they did a concept video to say, where could the future of policing be? And one of the things they predicted was in the not distant future. We'll be able to take all these data from the police body cams Rob Wolcott: and automatically fill out police reports. Rob Wolcott: After chat, Gpt launched. Rob Wolcott: Axon said, Okay, you know what the technology is going to be ready soon. Let's do it. And earlier this year they announced what's called draft one. Rob Wolcott: So if an officer wants to. Rob Wolcott: they can take the body, cam Rob Wolcott: interaction video, push a button, and instantly their police report is completed. Rob Wolcott: Now they have to edit it, of course, and make sure it's accurate, but nonetheless. Think of the extraordinary time savings for officers! Think of how much more time they can spend serving their mission of public safety as opposed to filling out police reports, you know. I'm sure they love filling out police reports, but but this is quintessential proximity, because the system sits there doing nothing until the moment that you need something, and it instantly responds custom. Rob Wolcott: Meanwhile they were also tracking drones, and they they didn't know anything about drones at the beginning. But they said, You know what Rob Wolcott: security and safety professionals are going to need drones for more and more things, so we'd better figure it out. So they started scanning the horizons and looking at the peripheries. What's going on in drone technology? What's going on in regulation, etc. They started with partnerships with drone companies to try and understand how those work. Rob Wolcott: And then, earlier this year, they announced they were acquiring 2 of those drone companies and rolling them into Axon. Rob Wolcott: so their their driving purpose is to say, what are all the things our Rob Wolcott: customers? Public security and safety professionals might need anytime anywhere. And how do we get it to them better than anybody else. It's quintessential proximity. Rob Wolcott: Incidentally, if you, if you need a proof point, this is their market return over the last 5 years, and this is a 30 billion dollars or so Market Cap Company. It joined the S. And P. 500 last year. So this is this is true visionary leadership, that where proximity is central to everything, they're developing for market. Rob Wolcott: So I'm nearing the end of my remarks, I have another a couple quick examples. But 3 things we're seeing are happening in a big way. As a result of this proximity revolution. 1st of all, expectations rise. Rob Wolcott: Certainly our expectations as consumers. You remember, before, Covid, if you ordered something online and and it arrived in 3 days, you thought that was pretty good. Rob Wolcott: If your package hasn't arrived in 3 days. Now you're online trying to figure out what the heck happened. Rob Wolcott: So our consumer expectations rise. But so do our b 2 b customers and also our employees and team members. The expectations of employees and team members have changed dramatically as a result of the rise of things like work at home, work from anywhere, zoom remote etc. Rob Wolcott: Proximity also allows us, for the 1st time since the industrial revolution in a significant way, to break trade-offs between customization and efficiency. We don't have time to get much time to go into detail on this here. But if you think about the difference between a big traditional industrial facility, making millions of copies of the same thing as opposed to a 3D printer sitting and waiting for the need for one specific custom product Rob Wolcott: as we get better and better at doing that. As we build that hybrid infrastructure in manufacturing worldwide, we'll end up being able to do more and more customization in economically competitive ways, in fact, doing things we could never have done before. Rob Wolcott: And one of my favorite implications of doing proximity right. Rob Wolcott: Anna, is that waste declines dramatically. Rob Wolcott: I mean, think about bustanica in the Uae, using 98% less water and wasting almost no food because they they may. They produce and use almost everything. Rob Wolcott: Now here's 1 of Kai Han and my sort of most exciting examples in the book. In fact, we throw. We throw Dr. Ling in the 1st chapter, because it's just so. Rob Wolcott: Shocking the 1st time you hear it, that this is possible, but this shows what is possible. Rob Wolcott: So Dr. Ling is, is a hero of mine, a very good friend. Rob Wolcott: He is a little bit crazy. He's brilliant. Rob Wolcott: He was a military doctor, retired not so long ago. He now practices at Johns Hopkins. Rob Wolcott: He had 6 tours of duty in the Middle East, and in those experiences they they kept running out of generic drugs. Rob Wolcott: Now it's it's not a surprise that you're going to have drug shortages in a war zone. Rob Wolcott: But what surprised me and I didn't know this until Dr. Ling shared it with me. We have generic drug shortages in hospitals and clinics all over the United States every day. Rob Wolcott: Dr. Ling tells me they have generic drug shortages at Johns Hopkins. Imagine that. Rob Wolcott: So as he's in the war zone, he's standing there fretting over a drug that's being flown to him by a pilot in an F. 16. Imagine that supply chain bill. Rob Wolcott: and he thought, this is ridiculous. Generic drugs are made of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Rob Wolcott: If I had the right chemistry set I could make the drug right here myself. Rob Wolcott: And so he went back to the United States, got a big grant from Darpa Rob Wolcott: defense advanced research Projects agency Rob Wolcott: worked with a team from Mit, and they figured it out. Rob Wolcott: They did it. You can look it up. It's a it's a private company called on demand pharmaceuticals. Rob Wolcott: They're all the the technology is already at small scale use by the Us. Military, but they're commercializing it. Rob Wolcott: What does it do? Rob Wolcott: Well, essentially, it's the size of a refrigerator, and it sits there doing nothing. Rob Wolcott: It sits there with carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Now, if any of you love pharmaceuticals. There are some apis. Yes, stuff like that. But let's simplify this conversation. Rob Wolcott: It sits there with carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, doing nothing until the doctor types in. I need a thousand doses of atropine. Rob Wolcott: or the nurse practitioner says, I need 300 doses of ciprofloxan, whatever it is, and then, hours later, outcome Rob Wolcott: 300 doses of ciprofloxone. Rob Wolcott: exactly the same as you would get at the pharmacy, and the FDA has already confirmed Rob Wolcott: that the drugs that come out of this equipment are exactly the same as you get at the pharmacy. Rob Wolcott: Now think about how different that is from the existing model, making millions of copies of that pill at a plant thousands, perhaps thousands of miles away. All of our generics are made overseas right now, which, by the way, opens us up to risks. Rob Wolcott: and compare that to having the equipment where you need it, and making only what you need. Rob Wolcott: So the very exciting part, Anna, right now is on demand, has their 1st commercial implementation underway in Tupelo, Mississippi. Rob Wolcott: They they they're working with a chronically underfunded Rob Wolcott: health system Rob Wolcott: in poor poor area. Rob Wolcott: and they chose 6 injectables to start. After all, it's healthcare. They have to start slowly, but they chose 6 injectables, and from the moment they switched on the system in January till today they've had 0 stock outs of these 6 drugs, and that's the 1st time in their history. Rob Wolcott: So this proximity stuff is coming. Rob Wolcott: and when you start to do the math, you realize it's going to take a while, and it's going to look different in different industries. But when you start to do the math over time, people will figure out how to do it far better than in the past. Rob Wolcott: Just to use this example, to illustrate. Rob Wolcott: as as many of you know, pharmaceutical drugs have a shelf life. Every few years you have to throw them out and make new pills. Rob Wolcott: the United States Government, Uk. Government, Singapore. Lots of countries have a strategic stockpile of ciprofloxone in case of a public health emergency. Rob Wolcott: So Rob Wolcott: us has millions of pills in stockpile every few years they have to throw them out and make new pills Rob Wolcott: because of the shelf life. Now think about on demand pharmaceuticals model. Rob Wolcott: It's sitting there with carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Rob Wolcott: What is the shelf life of carbon Rob Wolcott: forever? Rob Wolcott: So think about how the economics shift. Think about how the waste decreases. Think about how much more responsive we can be. Dr. Ling's dream is to have this equipment in Liberia and the Congo and Pakistan, and other places in the world where they don't have access to generic drugs at all. Rob Wolcott: much less in hospitals and clinics all over the developed world. Rob Wolcott: So question i i 2 questions I leave you with 1st one is what might your customers desire. Rob Wolcott: and that could be your your customers. That could be your employees, your team members, people with whom you work. Rob Wolcott: What might your customers desire in the future when they can have anything, anywhere, anytime. Rob Wolcott: when you start to think about that, and don't let reality get in the way you start to get some foresight as to what might be coming in the future. Rob Wolcott: And then, of course, the Rob Wolcott: the question for each of us is, How will you lead Rob Wolcott: the proximity revolution? Rob Wolcott: So I'll stop there. Anna Tavis: That's very thought provocative, and I think it is. Also we've all experienced it one way or the other. Anna Tavis: and the interesting question here would be, and and Kai and I would love you to jump in. Thank you so much, Rob. Anna Tavis: you know, since you are working with a lot of leaders from different organizations. What is changing at the leadership level Anna Tavis: and how it impacts trickles down through the organization regarding skills, the kinds of Anna Tavis: organizations. We need to build if we were to embrace Anna Tavis: this proximity, environment. Kaihan Krippendorff: Yeah, I think if you apply the same principles of compressing value into smaller parts, spreading them out and bringing them together at the last moment when and where they're needed. And if we look at an organization as maybe a vehicle to connect work that needs to be done with people who want to do the work Kaihan Krippendorff: right. If we start compressing those 2 waiting until they're needed, we can kind of get a vision of what an organization the future can look like a non hierarchical dynamic organization. And so what we can imagine is we maybe don't have jobs anymore. Right? Don't have roles anymore. Right? But this has been something you've written a lot about. And people have been looking at this. But when the role fragments into pieces. Kaihan Krippendorff: And now we can enable Collab, we can enable people to find each other. And what I'm really excited is about is the efficiency by which we can help problems, find solutions inside an internal marketplace. We can shortcut that Kaihan Krippendorff: and that is in part because we can search more easily. We can engage more easily. We can assemble the smaller pieces in the last minute. But also the people you know, you could think of as like a proximity to proficiency gets closer. Kaihan Krippendorff: as we need less time to onboard. In part, because Kaihan Krippendorff: AI doesn't require us to learn to code right? So as as an example. So if you start to kind of put those 2 together, you start seeing a very different kind of Kaihan Krippendorff: underlying metaphor, for what an organization is. Anna Tavis: Yeah, thank you so much. And and, Rob, you've been answering questions here around remote working, because I'm sure a lot of people joined the call, because they were thinking that the same conversation about distributed work, remote working, and kind of companies wrestling with the idea of do we bring people on board, etc, etc. Have you explored how proximity, the ability to Anna Tavis: bring the work and the, you know, production and consumption all into one place? How is it going to affect that? What we've developed proximity with a distributed work workforce? It seems like it's going in the opposite direction. Rob Wolcott: Going in the opposite direction. In what sense? What do you mean? Anna Tavis: In you know that the people who are remote are doing mostly, you know, predictable type of work, coding, etc, working on their own proximity. Where I see the concentration of effort is on the creative collaborative Anna Tavis: design of how the workflow is going to to be created, etc. So it seems like the pieces of work that could be outsourced and distributed are going to be automated, whereas the work that requires more human proximity, in addition to, you know, supply chains, etc, will be in greater demand. Rob Wolcott: Well, so you've said a lot there. I'll we could talk for hours about it, but I'll give you a couple of punchlines. Rob Wolcott: 1st of all, we're at the very beginning of this very steep learning curve. Our series of learning curves. Rob Wolcott: So. Rob Wolcott: So what what we're seeing is people trying to figure out. Rob Wolcott: you know, how do we parse out work in a way that people can be at different places? But we'll find out that that's not by any means the only solution. As you mentioned, layer automation and AI on top of this Rob Wolcott: and that changes what's possible where and by whom. So, for instance. Rob Wolcott: I was talking to a couple of doctors last week about what they're seeing. And one of the really interesting things they saw was that the younger doctors. The new interns coming in, they said to a person, are operating very differently. When there's something that they have to figure out, they immediately are going to their mobile device and looking up Rob Wolcott: and starting now to use generative AI to add to pose questions, to research databases and things like this. Rob Wolcott: to access insights and information, etc, in the moment, wherever they happen to be. Rob Wolcott: And so if you extrapolate that Rob Wolcott: sort of concept out. Rob Wolcott: you'll also find the ability to have centralized systems. It doesn't matter where those servers exist that from the user's perspective doesn't matter where the servers exist out in the cloud somewhere. Rob Wolcott: But you have these systems that will be able to scan through reams and reams of research reports and synthesize them and make them more and more relevant in the moment exactly where it's required. Rob Wolcott: And and and that's certainly you could see it as replacing humans who might do that otherwise. But really, I don't think that's the right way to look at that, because what does it do? It enables the people in the field anywhere Rob Wolcott: to leverage that far more effectively, far faster. Rob Wolcott: and and things like one of the attendees mentioned hallucination. Rob Wolcott: This is absolutely true, and it's a risk, and it's something we have to figure out. But that's why I keep stressing the learning curves. Rob Wolcott: This is an engineering challenge, and people are working very hard on solving that. Rob Wolcott: And what we're finding is, there are certain places where already it's trivial to use Rob Wolcott: generative AI, and it doesn't cause many problems in other places. It's dangerous to do so. Rob Wolcott: But you know what we're going to do. We're going to get better. The technology will get better. The methodologies will improve the application and risk management will improve. So my point is, there are so many different technologies rising to allow us to do what we need, where and when we need it. Rob Wolcott: And it's not just that the rote sort of allocative work like coding will be automated out. Much of it will. But an interesting observation on the the easiest skills to automate are the hard skills. So people traditionally said, the hard skills and the soft skills. Rob Wolcott: Well, you know, it's kind of Rob Wolcott: the easiest skills to automate are the hard skills. So so I'm a huge fan of stem. Rob Wolcott: But what we need to do with stem and how we need to think about it is very different Rob Wolcott: than, say, a decade ago. Anna Tavis: Yeah, totally agree. Kai. Henry, do you have anything to add. Kaihan Krippendorff: No, no, I I agree. I think, that. I don't have. I don't have much to add, but I think that one thing that we start seeing is that as there is kind of lower barriers to entry to tapping workers and workers tapping right? What we're going to start seeing we are seeing is, there's a shift in the balance of power. Kaihan Krippendorff: And so I think companies are going to have to stop selling the same value proposition to every worker. One thought, Leader, that we, Felix Oberholster. He described it this way. It's like companies. Kaihan Krippendorff: If they were hotel companies making hotels for their workers. Kaihan Krippendorff: They've got one brand of hotel. Kaihan Krippendorff: and you either take that hotel or you don't, and I think we're going to start seeing which would be exciting for me as a worker and for all of us as workers, is actually our personalized work experiences that we can engage in. Anna Tavis: Yeah. And as a final point, I know, Kyhan, you have an important presentation right after this. Anna Tavis: The message I'm getting here as well, at this conference here is, there's actually going to be more jobs. They're just going to be very different kinds of jobs. And and we in higher Ed, and in your, you know, advising capacity, we will need to be working with organizations on how to make that shift from the jobs that we've been traditionally leaning into and teaching, you know, certain skills from, you know, kindergarten Anna Tavis: to expanding of what's needed and the barriers, actually, what the one message I'm hearing is that the barriers between, you know the science, the the hard skills, and the soft skills are going to dissipate. Anna Tavis: There's going to be because there's going to be so much. You know, automation of of that, that hard skill and a lot more need for creative thinking, etc. So we are in the right place it's been. If you have any closing remarks. Anna Tavis: please do so, and then Anna Tavis: oh. Kaihan Krippendorff: Yeah, I would. Anna Tavis: Yeah. Go ahead. Kaihan Krippendorff: Yeah, I would just say, we found this concept that we call P equals 0 to be a very helpful starting point in any area in work. Imagine what P equals 0 looks like. That is the hypothetical point at which, when a need arises, the solution to that need or the value, for that need is immediately not only created at that place, but also at that time. Kaihan Krippendorff: and then that can lead to steps to get there. There have been a couple of questions about whether you have to be large, to be, to seize the opportunities a company has to be. I don't think it has to be, because historically, you just need a small step. If you can get the. If you can get the taxi, you can get your car to the curb 30 seconds before the Taxicab company does. Kaihan Krippendorff: Then you can be Uber. It doesn't require a big leap in proximity to seize the advantages, so it doesn't require you to be large. Anna Tavis: That's terrific. So many great ideas for us to sit on. Thank you so much. Just a public service announcement here. Our next one is going to be on skill powered organizations again back to skills. With Ravin leading, Mr. Consultant. Rob Wolcott: Oh, yeah, Robin's great. Anna Tavis: Yep, yep, yeah, I and I. And I hope that we can build on. You know all of the great ideas that you just planted here. Thank you all so much. Have a terrific rest. Rob Wolcott: And if I if I could just add one thing, I'm always on Linkedin. I love hearing from people who are thinking about proximity and seeing interesting things. Please feel free to reach out. Anna Tavis: Yes, fantastic. Yes, both and Rob are very active on Linkedin. Let's give them a big round of applause on Linkedin, on social media. And thank you so much. Keep doing your good work. Anna Tavis: Alright. Thank you. Kaihan Krippendorff: Thank you. Anna Tavis: Thanks.