Every fast food restaurant has secrets, like secret menu items or hacks or even secret recipes. Well, today I'm gonna be exposing and fast food secrets club president, Jordan the stallion. He literally has an entire The first on our hit list is in n Out. Their menu looks deceivingly simple, but that's because most people Can we get the onion burger and the grilled cheese? The secret menu stuff. I know you. Onion wrapped patty. I don't even like onions. And this is really, really good. This is one of the most Very much! Just sounds so moist. Actually, This is actually really good. This is a grilled cheese sandwich This just feels like it's missing Well, you know, Haf. I hate to break it to you. There is something missing. I would never order this. I found this hack. This is an In-n-Out cup holder. No, of course. Gonna fill these in. Oh, no, I have two more cups. So what we can do is, we can open it up, which will give us Look at that. Whoa. How would you rank the In-n-Out secrets? So I give it a B for useful enough but not so great to where you're like, Onto the next thing, and it's gonna take us a Next stop is Wendy's. They apparently have this secret You know about this? I ate it. It was a bad time for Jordan. By chance, can I get a T-rex burger here? Which one? A T-rex burger? Even though we couldn't we'll be visiting more Wendy's the extinct T-rex burger. Going on to the next hack. We're coming up on Five Guys here. Tell me about the hack. Five guys from at that for bacon. Yeah, there's no limit. Now, when I did say this at they tried it out, and they were getting containers So, we are going to go out now and see if if it's still working. Three guys at Five Guys. And I pulled out a loan that's They don't charge for bacon? Jordan's way too viral. You do look about 45. Can I get a cheeseburger? Then, can I get extra bacon? Extra bacon? yeah. You guys don't charge for extra bacon? No, extra bacon is free. It actually worked! Yo, look at all that bacon. All the bacon you got in your building. It's coming to me. I'm gonna get my $12. Worth. Actually came out to $23. Let's show you guys what we got for 24, That's a burger. This is a little bacon burger. This is a burger. And then, we got fries. The only thing missing from this is a That's the only way that these prices. Even make any sense. Yes. No, we didn't. if you want bacon. In order to recover from this recession. We got bacon. And we did not have to pay for this. This is extra bacon on the side. So, let's see You can get four containers It is free. That's crazy. Let's see how much bacon Oh, they gave a lot on the burger as well. I'm still here to tell you not worth $25, You like that? Oh, yeah. Their bacon is tasty. What would you rate this hack? Honestly, this is pretty A-tier. Because you can get unlimited bacon. Really! That is true. I can make all my money back. I give it a B-tier. The price is still pretty ridiculous, Next up is Chipotle. Chipotle used to be my favorite but the prices have just Year, and now it's like it doesn't. Feel worth it anymore. But with this next hack, we're able to get two The hack is simple. First, except for the meat, Then ask for two tortillas on the side bowl into two normal sized And while we're here, we're also going to expose two secret Do you know what a Quesarito is? You guys sell nachos? Yes, of course. I can help you out over here. Yeah. All right. And then also, can we get a burrito bowl? Value. Take a look at the price here real quick. So nachos actually is not that worth 10/10 for the chicken bowl. Definitely, not worth it. This is a hefty bowl. Look at the sag on it. This is double everything And then lastly, And look at how much We could feed a whole family. Look at this. Yeah, look at that. Look how much we have left. And look how much we're making Yeah. See, there's no possible way I can even. You see the size of this burrito? That's a regular, manageable size. This one is a bigger size, If you're doing this hack, it's super. Value. On the tier list here. What are we rating this one? This one is S-tier. $10 for a whole day of food. S-tier. I will agree. This is quite S-tier. This is the Chipotle nacho. Considering how much they charge, I have an apology to make. I said that I didn't like nachos. I'm so sorry. And I want you guys to know bad about nachos again. All right, come here, please. Get away from me. We don't know each other. Just back up a little bit. Just really get back. Back, you're scaring me. Thank you. No, this nachos are good. The nachos are good. I will definitely try this again. Maybe not here, A quesarito is basically the melted and then they wrap everything. That's food. It's definitely food. Okay. This is melted cheese right here. All right, let's give it a try. Adds a little bit of Nachos. C-tier. Cause it's overpriced. Quesarito. I give this a C-tier. It does. Give that a C. Yes. It's kind of mid. Going on to the next hack. We're coming up on Olive Garden here. So, you know why I cannot step One day, I found out that you apparently can buy I told everybody you can get one. And that video, grossed, past about 70 million views. And it made the news everywhere. It made the news everywhere. And from that point, it's either they really love I'll explore this for you. It's crazy how viral Jordan enter these establishments. I'm so proud of them. I'm just wondering, do you guys have the Let me see if we have Okay, but I don't know if it's in stock. Awesome, thank you so much. Appreciate it. No way. Wait, we gotta go back to, Jordan. I'm gonna hide this. You guys got the cheese grater? I don't know, man. You sold it out. No. You're not slick. I can see it in you. I know you got it. No. Are you serious? Yeah. You sold it out? Yeah. Yeah. Just kidding. Are you serious? It's sold out? Let me guess, it was $14. It's gonna be $22.04, is that okay? How much? It's $22 now. They raise the price. Cheese doesn't stand a chance I'm giving this hack a B-tier. Alright, here's another secret. So even though I'm filming I'm not the biggest fan of fast food, I like to eat healthy. But buying groceries, cooking and then having to wash the dishes Like, I don't have the energy to do all that. So here's a hack. There's a company called never frozen and dietician And since they're sponsoring this video, you're gonna get a crazy value Factory meals shipping a box So even if it's left outside you'll be fine. And these factory meals are There's no shopping involved, no cooking, All you gotta do is just take it out For me, I love the convenience of not having to I know I can just eat a factory meal And you can choose from six to help you manage calories, maximize your protein, or just simply eat a well balanced meal. There are 30 different meals so you won't get bored of eating And as promised, here's the best part. Because they're sponsoring this video, Head to FACTOR75.COM and use the code box and 20% off your next box. That's code &quot;HAFUGO50&quot; at FACTOR75.COM and 20% off your next box while With the discount, so it's definitely worth giving it a try. Let's get back to the next Our next stop is Raising Cane's. They're famous for their sauce, To Jordan. So Raising Cane's is very underwhelming. The main reason why, So that's why we're going and we're going to make it at the because I do have the recipe. Hello. Can we get, like, five sauces? Five sauces. Okay! For this next secret. Don't worry, Hafu, I got this... There's this really cool guy. Bro, it's my video. What are you talking about? This is my show, Hafu. You're my guest. What I'm saying is, the first thing is we're gonna Need a fourth cup of ketchup. Oh, fun fact about these, these ketchup. Oh, I know this one. I watch your videos. Yeah. You squeeze from the sides, it automatically dispenses itself. Okay. Would you want to do it? Oh, yeah. It's only a half teaspoon Oh, you got some stains. That's why we do it. That's why these are invented. These are chefs. We need to get dirty. We gotta, that's how we know we're working. Now, let's get this going. Half teaspoon of garlic powder. And then I believe we need lemon pepper, So let's take a look. If you mix this together. The texture and everything All right, here we go. Pretty identical. Doesn't taste the same. I don't know why, I wash my hands, I promise. I think for this one, we're gonna need either more lemon Can we add more ketchup? Do you think that would ruin it? No, do what you gotta do. Add some more ketchup. I think it's, 90% of the way they are. If anything. I say try it at home. Put in the comments what you guys did get an identical taste from this one. But again, small components missing I mean, It's a ketchup. It's a ketchup. We found it. We found it right here on Hafu Go, guys. Punch that subscribe button. This guy right now, The homemade Raising A-tier onto the next hack. Now we're on our way to Restaurant Depot, a secret store that's only But rumor has it that anyone can that they own a restaurant. Supposedly, and I'm tired of overpaying So my goal is to find an entire bag of We don't own a restaurant, If somebody asks. We do. And this is the restaurant logo. Fast food secrets club. I've never been inside of here before. I've never seen a store in front of it. So let's go see how it works. Take a look at these carts. I've never seen this type I've never actually been here before. Is there any way I can buy We're trying to work on our own business, Thank you so much. Okay, so we'll give you a one day pass. 50 pound bag of potatoes for $10. Where the hash browns at? As we were searching the store, That's the biggest bag of Yo, this bag of tortilla is only $4. This is awesome. This place is awesome. Oh, fruit snacks. Oh, it's awesome. Oh. Yo, they got prime. Oh, my gosh. Look at this ice cream. You can get a gigantic We searched the entire store but couldn't find the $5 hash browns. Well, we might not have been able to find I would deem this secret if I put like a half check. Cause their prices are pretty good. You can get things in bulk. It does exist. We got a day pass, So because of that, I've never seen a tub though. For $20. This hack deserves a B-tier. Just an important note for There's no returns, and you cannot get alcohol. Now, we're trying Jordan's secret recipe. Yeah, I agree. Yeah. Yeah, I think you should We're gonna make the frosty today. The Wendy's frosty is something. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. What do you mean? In the video. Oh, yeah, no, sorry. I know. Of course. This is a Hafu video. Okay, so Jordan is gonna give us the Yes. Yes, indeed. In order to make the Wendy's frosty, It's like an ice cream, We need chocolate milk. We need sweetened condensed milk, Cool whip. Cool whip. Two cups of chocolate milk, 3.5oz sweetened condensed milk, Cool whip. Cool whip. Yes. Now we just turn this bad boy on. Turn that guy off. Hafu seems to be liking Whoa. That tastes pretty similar in terms of flavor, How's it taste? Why would you doubt me for a sec? Why would you doubt me? All right, let's get that in the freezer. I didn't doubt you. All right, so it's been 4 hours. It's a little thinner consistency, but This is the real Wendy's frosty, You wanna try it? The consistency here Yeah, I want. It is. Which, again, Maybe more cool whip or longer freezing Very creamy. Very chocolatey. chocolatey. I like that. I think, with a little bit of tweaking, but right now, B. B tier? Yeah. Think the same thing. Funny enough, this is the actual recipe just depending on, the difference between actual chocolate milk or maybe So well guys, we did it again. Thank you for coming to my show. I have no socks on. That's how you know I'm Whoa. No free feet pics. What are we doing, Brody? Another attempt at the You're not able to make the T-Rex burger. Well, so I guess I'll. No. All right. Thanks, man. Going on to the next hack. Now, for some chicken. Yes. Finally, some chicken. With this Popeyes' hack, supposedly we can get Step one, order a large drink. Step two, Step three, use a code you got from completing and biscuit combo for free. But here is where it gets interesting, because you're supposed to receive chicken that you just got. Meaning you can do the survey again and get unlimited free chicken. Let's see if it actually works. Um, I want unsweet ice tea. Alright, cool. Get unsweetened iced tea. Perfect. Alright. A large drink is $2.99 Of course, we need a printed receipt. So on the back of this, this is enjoy two pieces of chicken and a biscuit Okay. Take survey. After spending five I redeemed my free chicken. We found out that the But you can get a free chicken combo We got this completely for free. $3 for a meal? Which is, Back in the day, KFC had a deal called Toonie Tuesdays. We have two dollar coins. That's called a Toonie. And a Toonie Tuesday would give you two pieces Yes. Oh, okay. That's pretty good. This is two pieces of chicken plus biscuit plus a drink for $3. That's pretty value. So in regards to the hack though, I think it falls down to the F, Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. We're still on the hunt Yeah, we can do that. Yeah, I think come through the drive thru We can do that for you. Yeah, we found one. We got the Jordan rizz bro, burger. All right cool. This is investigative journals. To get this T-rex burger, Hello, welcome to Wendy's. How can I help you? So I called in not too long ago. I asked if I can get a T-rex burger. He said he'd be willing to make it for me. A T-rex burger... Okay, let me go ahead and ask, okay? Thank you so much. The Jordan rizz. I got it from here. I got the rizz from here. I think it's probably safe if I just... After some convincing, Make it for us. There you go. Focus up, baby. We finally hunted down this T-rex. That is literally the size of the head. It's like eating a small baby. Ohhh My goodness. What is this monstrosity? What the freak, bro? This is a T-rex burger from Wendy's. Funny enough, same price if not a little bit There are nine patties, probably one bite is 1000 calories. Not gonna lie. Gotta relax the jaw a little bit. No. Oh, I got through. You got through six patties. Just the top half is untouched. We're gonna squish that. There you go. There we go. All right, let's see now. Yeah. Nice. And. Yeah. Wow. Oh, you're close. That look. Oh, that's a lot. Yeah. Mmm. That's a nine-patty bite. Please put it down. I mean, where would you. Are you okay, bro? What's wrong? Why did we do this? It's your secret, bro. It's a secret for a reason. It should be left uncovered and that, I'm sorry, I can't. Yeah. Ignorance is a bliss. This is S-tier for me. That's an F-tier ranking. Who would want that? I actually kind of enjoyed this. If you guys want the T-rex burger, but I'm begging, Some secrets are meant to be kept secret. We have to finish that. Yeah. We'll eat over the next week. Also, comment below. Should we have done this? So make sure you hit And if you want to watch another video, click right here. And click here to watch a video