Some trust in chariots, some trust in horses, Father, in every season and to surrender to you and to sing to you, knows that you did it before and you're going Chris, your voice sounded like honey on a biscuit. Give me some of those multivitamins. Thank the Lord. How many are grateful that he your borrowed breath? Everybody joining us online, We're excited. We connect with you right now or cable television, whatever the case may be. and he's got it. Do you need grace? He's got He's got it. Do you need wisdom for what to do We are so excited about our Elevation Nights tour because it's going to be cold where we're going. name the cities and the dates. February 20-29. Grand Rapids, Michigan; Columbus, Ohio; Hoffman Last week I said &quot;Long Island&quot; and somebody is not Long Island. They are different.&quot; Okay. Corner. Leave me alone. Boston, Massachusetts; and Are any of y'all coming? You don't have to. 18-year anniversary next Sunday. Get here for gave us for that, so I hope you'll be here the New You. I'm releasing a book. I'm starting a Holly has been locked away in the studio been going at it this year. We've been songs last week. The Lord is about to pour and mercy upon our church in this next You say, &quot;Well, I'm not even a member.&quot; those overflowing blessings. If you it'll splash on you. I'm telling you, man. Today I want to share with you a message I've this summer. I'm excited. I'll just give you Turn in your Bible to Psalm 144. I've been one. The Lord showed me how to do it, and because if he helps me, it helps you. he wants me to say. Nothing &quot;Praise be to the Lord my Rock, my fingers for battle. He is my loving God and my shield, in whom I take refuge, who subdues will sing a new song to you, my God; on the to the One who gives victory to kings, say your name this time. &quot;Who delivers his &quot;From the deadly sword deliver me; rescue mouths are full of lies, whose right hands are just one verse from Colossians. &quot;Since, set your hearts on things above, where God.&quot; I want to teach you today how to Tune so you can get some joy, so you can get Father, now I stand ready to me like I'm a trumpet and use me how The fun thing about marriage... Well, there are a is putting little nicknames in your phone for your your spouse, significant other, in your phone that Security number. I change the name I have for is just two emojis. I have the heart emoji and the Of course it's an orange heart for Dabo (for to the car where it reads the texts to you when and it said, &quot;Text from 'Orange heart/light skin house when we're not here on Sunday. &quot;Come Well, she put the name in her phone for me... Again, we'll change them. We'll get a little new to time. If you don't have a different name you need to be more intimate. It's a predictor you have a playful name in your phone. I'm sure a are made up on the spot). All right. So, she about this this morning when I was thinking We got it from a John Mayer song. It said, &quot;A really like that John Mayer sang. He said, &quot;I'm to sing any more so I don't get a YouTube But it would say that in her phone when I So, of course it makes you wonder. &quot;Am I?&quot; Are to talk about that for a moment. We're going I am surprised how quickly my heart can switch Y'all aren't going to help me preach a bit in a couple of weeks. This is so difficult We say, &quot;Bless your heart.&quot; What we bless your heart.&quot; So even that is difficult. wanted so many different things. There were times pull up the covers, and pretend like from God this week because I didn't know Another part of my heart wanted to get in bound by and take the hammer of the Word loose for his glory so you can get on with Same heart. One part of my heart this week One part of my heart wanted to be like, because you don't know what you're talking and it wasn't with anybody in We are thankful in these moments for biblical O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his that woman Bathsheba who is not my wife. Bring her want to be obedient to God.&quot; From the same heart came so many problems. David had great praise in One Scripture writer said he had 99 before we move deeper in this textual conversation where you feel really grateful and then Same heart. I always point this out forget that we are learning from someone in the Now, in our culture we will see a very what's called the heart. I'm going to define the organ. We see a very different definition In our culture today, the heart is a master &quot;Okay. Follow your heart.&quot; In the Scripture it's a not seem to be a master to be obeyed. Heart You're like, &quot;What are you talking about, different things. Are you talking about my ability you talking about my passion? Are you talking are embodied in the Hebrew idea of the heart. and in the Scripture the heart is capable to his fellow comrade, &quot;Do all that is in From the heart flow the issues of life. So, one really different than &quot;Follow your heart.&quot; Follow problem I have with my heart leading me is that is following Jesus; sometimes I don't. Sometimes Sometimes I feel like turning the other My heart needs to be guarded. So, let's and then I'll bring you to David, and then I want the apostle Paul says, &quot;Since, then, Question, class. &quot;You have been raised with that happened (raised with Christ), &quot;...set your tense? Okay. I'm pointing this out to you not because I want you to understand your soul can The language here is active, since you have been raised with Christ, follow it what it wants.&quot; You don't do that with a tongue in a light socket. And you watch the The 2-year-old is not your enemy. Neither enemy. Neither is your 2-year-old. The point while not an enemy to be defeated, and he will speak to you through that Sometimes people will say, &quot;Furtick is just an What do you want me to be? Do you want me to and stand up here and drone on and on and &quot;I found a man after my own heart.&quot; God is after wants you to praise him with enthusiasm for your Quiet Christians, take note. You've got Yet the word set drew my attention, because Jesus did that for me. Come on. Jesus gave you a new heart. The Scripture speaks One is the old covenant (keeping the established and ratified by the blood of new on the inside. Yet this new because it is not like the infomercial I promise you if you take that approach to your mindset... I don't care how much blood of Jesus for setting your heart... That is a decision, will. If you don't do it, disappointment The heart is not an enemy to be hated. and that's wonderful. The heart is neither a heart is not a leader to be followed. I want going to sound mean and I want you to be in on Look at your neighbor and say, &quot;Your heart That's all you're supposed to say. We don't rebuttal. We will take our questions at the neighbor so they don't think you were picking don't appreciate this. I came to be uplifted and you want to talk about the Word of God, Now you understand why I can't let my heart I think we have enough liars for leaders without without electing how I feel at 3:00 p.m. if I'm in the mood that I need to be in to My heart can't be my leader because my heart is incredible asset to show me in moments, &quot;This &quot;My heart goes out to you.&quot; It means, &quot;This is That's how I know to give that waitress That's how I know to overlook the offense because my heart... I'm thankful for my instructor either. Instead, I think we Now I want to move into my picture from David's guitar. I'm going to play it. You're going to but I get by. I decided to do this illustration When I thought about it... David is praising God, He said, &quot;God trains my hands and my fingers this probably later. You know, he's talking but he's remembering that he wasn't always a king. Philistine warrior who dared to defy the armies of than David, more skilled and seasoned than David, But when God trains your fingers, even a down the biggest giant. David had heart. He I tried to take tennis lessons, and it took him My grip for a tennis racket. Imagine David said, &quot;I trained to kill lions and bears. when I got in a fight, he gave me the victory.&quot; changes from fighting to flowing. The language how God is fighting for you... I want you to Tell your neighbor, &quot;God is fighting for God is bigger than that report. God is bigger thing. God is bigger than that night terror. Yet but you just have to have ears to &quot;I will sing a new song to you, my David was a praiser. Yes, he was a fighter, could take down an enemy, but he also &quot;I have trained fingers for war, but the Lord trained fingers that knew how to grip a sling He said, &quot;I will sing praise to you, God; on &quot;Your heart is a liar,&quot; I was setting you up here in the midst of a battle... You say, &quot;How He says, &quot;Deliver me; rescue me from are full of lies...&quot; He's fighting lies. Are you the lies you told about you, the have grown into insecurities that Everybody under the sound of my voice is that God is but you're not. But guess who made put you there, he'll grow you there. Hallelujah! David fought lies with a lyre. Now I have two A lyre is just a harp. They were slightly The Hebrew Scriptures give three different types the temple: the percussion instruments, like the the wind instruments, the ram's horn, the in Egypt. That wasn't really the Israelites' Just every once in a while over in 808 Then the stringed instruments. Did you see verse my heart, the ten-stringed instrument.&quot; Ten church. It felt inefficient to roll a harp but we have so many guitars around this church First of all, a few words about this and that is a good company to make guitars. all of these musicians who are on this the instrument can never exceed the I could hand E a $10 guitar. This one is not $10. The $10 one would sound better with him than this were preaching, I'm a better preacher than him. But look. I'm going to sing you a hymn where I got This hymn was written in the 1700s. If you know Come thou fount of every blessing, Streams of mercy never ceasing, Teach me some melodious sonnet, Praise the mount, I'm fixed upon it, I got my title from that first Come thou fount of every blessing, It's amazing when you're in tune with the grace of God. It's amazing when you're When I'm in tune with you, Lord, I don't have Lord, I don't have to manipulate so much. have to defend myself; you fight my battles. &quot;Lord, I want to be in tune with you.&quot; When I'm When I'm in tune with you, Lord, it feels like all Lord, I can scale a wall. When I'm in tune with not a problem. When I'm in tune with you, make me cry. When I'm in tune with you, don't last always but joy comes in the It's a beautiful thing to be in tune. I think we used our strings a little more. If we would some of the things that wear I'm not saying it's magic. I'm just saying that A good man with a good heart. She says I'm that, to time... It happened to David, too, so I don't life, we get distracted. (Chris, come. I think and I told him I might call him.) You get start following your own whims and fall back into Instead, it's more like a distraction. and he's cool with it. He's going to but he's a versatile worshiper. Just for man. Yeah, I'm going to start the business. I'm Right? &quot;Come thou fount...&quot; Flowing like that. Then Then you get a text message, and then you have supposed to say and be who you're supposed to and it's &quot;Come thou fount...&quot; That doesn't sound... just tweaks you a little bit, but sometimes... No, I with your teenagers. I'm about to prophesy. and now it's &quot;Come thou fount...&quot; Wait a minute. I know what it is. I need a new guitar. but before you trash it, tune it. It happens moment that you can get saved one time the affections for the things that matter be selfless in every encounter and will Watch these musicians the next time their guitars once a month. They don't tune just tune their guitars every Sunday before they that every day I'm alive and every breath there is a possibility that From the same heart come your greatest fears. From one you move into depends on what you're tuned to. with a lot of condemnation at how much I change do God's will, from feeling motivated to preach to preach to me, from feeling like I want to be of me and being very... I can have very big pity that my heart is a harp, a stringed instrument, I told you this illustration was going to not trying to just put an entertainment that. There's way better, more entertaining but you came here to get help for your heart. I'm trying to show you that it sounds like that good. You've just been tuned to some stuff that is Jesus Christ does tune-ups? Is that why you came Now, there are two ways to tune this guitar. The have the appropriate tension through these pegs does with discouragement, disappointment, I could spend a whole hour just going through all If the Enemy can detune your heart, he can defeat fighting, when you need to be reaching for war.&quot; But David said, &quot;I've learned to We have personalized the precepts, so we say my truth, because my heart is a liar. I cannot cause me to want to quit. That would cause me to That would cause me to sink. That would cause me It's fine to follow your heart when your heart is you need to be tuned. I want you to make sure not your subjective experience. Not even parents taught it and God taught against What your parents taught you was tradition. me to truth.&quot; That means, &quot;God, show me where show me where I think I need to get because I want to be tuned to truth. at a disadvantage when, really, &quot;I've been saying I don't have the resources.&quot; he could source this one so he could get the glory my heart to truth. There are a couple ways to like you and me... We have heartstrings. Right? This guy came over to tune our piano and charged, and I was like, &quot;Bro, do I get a discount? goes, &quot;No. I have to do it every time the the strings must be recalibrated. You're How many of you are going through a seasonal How many of y'all feel like in Charlotte we every week? I'm going to have the piano if we keep this weather fluctuation up. Good because every time the temperature changes, you So, you need to be asking the question, &quot;God, who to be now? What childish things do I need to put in a season of abundance, but you keep thinking are in a season of focus, but you're thinking... you're scheduling your life like you're single. So, when you need to retune you can buy one of these. This is a tuner. This but I'm going to give you something from with this microphone and this acoustic guitar but I told the Lord, &quot;I'll flow with it however holding the guitar in this moment behind the Okay. Here it is. Give me verse 10. I not only is it important what you tune, that has to be tuned regularly to the intervals of your life. Not only do I have to a new season, so I don't carry yesterday's manna Not only do I need God to tune but watch this. He said, &quot;I will sing to not only is David saying, &quot;I will sing to I gave a dollar to you. But he's saying, I'll show you. LJ is playing a digital instrument. It's digital. It is set, and it will stay set. right now. So, the fact that I'm out of tune on around to someone who is always in tune. Look. to you. I've been thinking about it for months. your Martin. You're about to mess up your mind. It's not trashed; it's just not tuned. So, &quot;Hey, LJ, give me an E,&quot; and he plays an on my liar... He's playing the truth, and I'm and I say E sounds like this. He's playing higher not coming down to me; I'm coming up to him, You're not coming down to it. It's not lower his standard. God is not going to just the way you were born. If the Son will if I'm down here and he's up there, I'm not High-five three people and say, &quot;Get up here.&quot; Get praise is. Get up here where the blessing is. Get the wisdom is. First of all peaceable and then Whose voice are you tuning to? I decided I'm not tuning to everybody else in this stupid even if you call it true. So, if the I'm not stooping to stupid and calling That's why I have to get my Bible out in feeling defeated, but my Bible said I'm more come down to the level of what I feel or I could voices speaking today. One is trying to make me I want to know... Whose report do you says I am healed. His report says I am LJ. I'm going to get this thing back in tune. I'm I'm going to get my heart un-gunked, because I believe God wants to use me. I and I can't do it out of tune. The fount of every what I think is true. Let God be true (Romans One time I went on the comments. Do you want to It was 10 years ago, and I still remember your heart. Not only a lie, like somebody telling that's a lie. &quot;But that's what my heart God is not bringing his standard down up. He doesn't hate you. He doesn't condemn dissonant state so you miss your destiny. loves you too much to let you spend the Speaking of hell, the YouTube comments... I used to sing more when we would finish hymn all the time. The YouTube comment on for word. God forgive me for giving They said, &quot;That awkward moment the song and everybody secretly wishes, sing.'&quot; Not that I pay any attention that thing got in my heart. &quot;I am Iron Man!&quot; It could be anything. I'll go &quot;Why is he wearing that tee shirt? He wore gospel. Where's Jesus in this? Jesus is If I let that I'm not a professionally what songs wouldn't I have written over the last preach the real gospel keep me from preaching the week at our eighteenth anniversary? I speak of me Not only the online ones. Man, the Lord &quot;How are you going to tune your life to the a man of God. The people who need to know to hear you sing.&quot; I hope you're watching, keep on singing as long as I've got breath in my I tune up! Oh, get ready! Get ready for what God said, &quot;I brought you to church to tune somebody and say, &quot;Wait till you hear me in in the stream of the current of the mercy of nor has it entered into the heart of a man it by his Spirit.&quot; You say, &quot;Well, Pastor, this His name is Lord Jesus. Now it's time to preach. Since, then, you've been brought up out of your since, then, there's no Red Sea in front of you your life, give him a praise, an in-tune praise, a breath, give him praise! Praise! I will bless the instrument. I'm tuned up by the Spirit of God. I'm I'm done tuning down to stupid. I'm done to tradition. I've got an LJ. He's tuning you. Lord. If you say that's D, I say I say it's good. If you say If you say, &quot;Let it go,&quot; I let it go. (Give and this will make me stronger, I will survive a guitar that I thought needed to be thrown one who is in tune. I see you getting with Jesus away from the lies, quiet in your own heart, was a good man with a good heart, but You did what you did, but that doesn't reflect to get with him this week, get in harmony with Invite him to take your hand off the sling. and let him put his hands on the stringed Come thou fount of every blessing, Streams of mercy never ceasing, Before I can praise, I have to pause and This is a pause between praises, Teach me some melodious sonnet, Praise the mount, I'm fixed upon it, He's getting you back in tune. I hear your Oh, to grace how great a debtor Let thy goodness like a fetter Prone to wander... Listen. ...Lord, I feel it... Just because you wander Prone to leave the God I love. Here's the message. Here's my heart, Lord, take and seal it, Lift your hands. You're the instrument now. hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content make to you today where you're watching from and like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people around the world for Jesus