Ordering the artillery to attack is 0 It seems that the plan worked, Commander Chiang. The enemy has an ambush. The enemy has an ambush. It's time for you to attack. How is it? The enemy is ambushing you. Well done. Next, wait for the enemy to come in. Prepare the enemy. Come on, don't wait until there are more of them. We'll fight again. Everyone is ready to fight. Escape quickly. Escape quickly. Hold on. Hold on, hold on, hold on, retreat quickly, retreat quickly, sister, the east and west gates have been attacked. Zhao Paotou and Captain Feng, with their brothers, are at war with the enemy. Sheng Zhonghao and the others have already repelled the first enemy. Nice attack, Chunni. Go home and protect the master and madam. We have to be careful. Hit me. Hit me. Hit me. Hit me. Hit me. Hit me. Hit me. Hit me. Hit me. Release Zhonghao Zhonghao Zhonghao Zhonghao, are you okay? I'm okay. Retreat to the second line of defense. Yes, retreat to the second line of defense. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Zhonghao. The enemy's firepower is too fierce. We can't hold on any longer. Hurry up and retreat. Retreat to where. There is no way to retreat. This is the last line of defense. If we retreat further, there is no way out. Prepare for hand-to-hand combat. Send the order. Mei Gu said that the enemy will use cannons. The second line of defense is about to be breached. Who is the commander in chief? I don't know if the artillery fire is fierce. I'm afraid it's going to be a disaster. Rush and kill. Rush, rush. Rush, your Excellency, Major. Hurry and retreat. Hurry and retreat. You bastards. If you don't retreat, the National Army and the Eighth Route Army will have already come to encircle you. If we don't, we won't be able to escape. Hurry up and retreat. Don't hesitate. Hurry up and retreat. When our reinforcements arrive, brothers, they are rushing up, up, and up. Yuhuan Yuhuan Yuhuan, load the gun, load the gun, brothers, are you okay? It's okay. Get ready for the battle. The wind is in your favor. Throw poison gas bombs. Prepare to release. Military divisions. Military advisors, gas bombs. Everyone is about to cover up with cloth. The devils are coming. Start shooting. Notify Miyamoto-kun and Jiang Youcai to attack. Rush, rush, release. If you betray me, should you run away quickly? The devil is coming. Run quickly. Run quickly. Hold it, hold it, rush, rush forward, rush forward, retreat quickly. Brother Yang, Brother Yang, Brother Yang, how are you doing? The gas bomb position is gone. Brother Yang, Brother Yang, attack from here. Report to the colonel from here. Because the wind direction There has been a change. Our army's attack has been blocked. The Oshima Wing is asking for support. The wind has changed. Let the people out immediately. They are the best support. This is too much. The Japanese are really not human. Use the common people as a shield. Don't kill us. Don't kill us. Be prepared. Be prepared. Be ready. Don't kill us. Don't shoot. Get down, get down, get down, get down, get down. Zhang Biao will escort the people into the city until the money is high. It's better for you to follow me. Move quickly, let Zhonghao go. The enemy's firepower is too fierce. Our losses are too great, retreat. Brothers, retreat to the city, retreat , retreat, retreat. Come on, come on, charge, charge, stop. Killing, rushing, rushing. The second master seems to have someone coming. It seems to be Yang Mazi. Get ready to start. Be energetic. If anyone gets into trouble, I'll kill him. Is it okay if he hears it? Pay attention. We need to cheer up. Someone from the eldest master's side is coming. Emperor The army is coming very quickly. It's very fast. Don't let the imperial army look down on us. Fight hard. Open fire. Grandpa and grandma, please stop fighting. This Tiger Roaring Mountain has not been beaten before. I haven't had enough yet. It's over, right? Yes, brother, our Salt Mountain is awesome. That's three. You go over and have a look. I'll take the brothers to greet Emperor Z. Ma Liu and me will greet the Imperial Army. Good brothers, let's go, brothers, let's be careful, brothers, follow me down and have a look, let's go down and have a look, come here, come here, Imperial Army, don't shoot, Imperial Army, we are from the head of Uuda, it's us, the Imperial Army, who pulls up the banner from the Yanshan pole. leader Yanshan pole surrenders to the Imperial Army. I am the leader of Yanshan. Imperial Army. Imperial Army. Don't shoot. We are here. We are working in Yanshan. The code is correct. Imperial Army. Imperial Army. You are my own people. Imperial Army. Imperial Army. You are here. There's an ambush among us. Master Wu Da can't hold on any longer. Let's go and save him. The imperial army is leading the way. Go ahead, lead the way, go, go, go. The front is in front, hurry up, the imperial army is in front, ready to fight. Brothers, come on, hurry up, brother, what should I do, what should I do, retreat? What about Taijun? You carry him back. Taijun, Taijun is right in front. This battle must be fought. Xiaoting sent the letter over, hurry up and get back soon. Show this jade pendant to my father. He will understand naturally if he sees it . If anything unexpected happens, just wait at the city gate. We are Captain Yang and we must intercept the Japanese. Just now, I wasn't sure of victory. The Japs came in many numbers. Zhang Biaolan and Land Rover. You guys, go over there and attack the Japs from both sides. Move quickly and prepare to fight. We are here soon. Prepare to throw and beat. Brothers, brothers, beat. Brothers, rush, rush, rush, rush. Charge, charge, don't shoot. I surrender. Put down the gun. Put down the gun. Put down. Don't move. I surrender. Don't move the gun. Put down the gun. Don't even move the gun. Put it down. Hand it over. What's going on? Tell me clearly. I asked you to say, Miss, spare your life, spare your life, it was the eldest young master who asked me to do it. I tied him up and took him back to the Longjiaji. Get up and quickly clean up the battlefield. Go to the Longjiaji. Yes, hurry up, pick up the gun and go, hurry up, Xiaoting, you hide first. Let's go and see what's going on. Go over there, go, go, go, go, you four, go to the back and attack. Come with me. Come on, Long Mei. You follow me. Go, go, go, go, go. Go, search carefully. How about a walk? Are you okay? It's okay. Let's go to the pavilion. Let's go. Come on, don't come here. Don't come here. Flower girl is quite dishonest. Go away, go away. Flower girl, I'll let you run. I'll let you run. Come on, let you run. Don't come here. You're pretty stubborn. I see you're still running. It's me, Brother Xiaoting Sheng. Are you okay? I'm okay. I killed a Japs and injured another Japs. They're okay. Don't be afraid. Who did this? It was them. Do you want to die or do you want to live? Do you want to live? Chinese people don't kill Chinese people. You still have the nerve to say that you are Chinese and pay back such a thing. Good man, these are all done by Takahashi Ono and others. The common people in the village were also beaten to death by them. I'll spare you this time. Next time, don't let me see you wearing this [ __ ] again. Thank you, the good old man, for tying him up and throwing him into the woods. Let's bury all these fellow villagers. Get up. You can take this with you at home. Is there anyone else? There is a grandpa Go back to grandpa, go back quickly, thank you girls, girls, get up, don't get up first, say thank you, don't get up quickly, girl, don't worry, we will definitely kill the Japanese to avenge you, go back, go back, go, go, be careful with us on the road. Let's go to Baoding. We played so well this time, but he is not our opponent. In the second game, Xiao Yuanye won. In the second game, Xiao Yuanye won. Next, in the third game, Kameda and Chen Dayong played. The certificate of life and death has been signed. Life and death are determined by destiny. The competition begins. Who else dares to come? Sir, Major, look at the back of that man. Look at how strong that man is. I seem to have seen this man somewhere. I don't care where I have seen him. Who is he? You must keep an eye on me. Go ahead. It's the fourth match between Ono Taro and Guo Zhanhao. We invite players to come on. Ono-kun comes on. Grab him. Go, go, go, go, in front. Go, go, move, go, go, go, go. Get out of the way, get out of the way, stop, what's up? Everything that needs to be done is done, what should we do now? Ren Madman, they are surrounded by the devils. Let's go rescue them first. Okay, let's go, let's go, hurry up and chase me. Yes, hurry up, hurry up. Stop, stop, don't run. Don't let them run away, Zhang Biao, Zhonghao is here, go, go, go, Zhang Biao, Qiangui, Zhonghao, Qiangui, was captured by the Japanese, I can't save him, there are too many enemies, we can't save him, right? Go, go, go, be careful, go, go, go, stop, chase, hurry, hurry, hurry, hurry, hurry, hurry, hurry, chase, little Xiaoting, give me a chase, chase, chase, hurry , walk, walk, go, what should I do with Sheng Zhonghao and Xiaoting? Chai Zhonghao's kungfu is fine. It's okay. Go, go, go. Then give me a chase. Is it Chui? Chase me quickly. Who are you? Come on, hurry up. Come on, let's take a break. We finally got rid of the Japanese. No, we can't take a break. We have to find Sheng Zhonghao. Where are you going to look for him now? Why should we go back to Baoding? Why are we going back to Baoding? Old Qian's life and death are unknown now. Sheng Zhonghao will not leave him alone, so I Do you think he will go back to look for Lao Qian? Or do you know him well? It's just that when we go back now, the Japanese are looking for us all over the world. Aren't we at gunpoint when we go back? It's because the Japanese are looking for us all over the world. They will be caught off guard if we turn around. If you are knowledgeable, go back to Baoding right away. No problem. Blow it up. Save me. Money, money, money, Zhonghao, Zhonghao. I'm here. Money, Zhonghao. Don't say anything. Come on, big brother, big brother, big brother. Go, go, go, brother, go slow, go faster, be careful, come on, come on, come on, follow up, follow up, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Quick, quick, quick, quick, quick, quick, quick, quick, quick, quick, quick, quick, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, come, fire, load up, fire, everyone, don't panic, everyone, everyone, everyone, everyone, everyone, quickly, get ready, quickly, quickly, release the grenade, Mei Gu, be careful of Dragon Meilong. Mei, how are you? I'm fine. Captain Zhao. Captain Zhao. Tree roots. Tree roots. Come on. Come on. Tree roots. Come on. Tree roots. Lift down. Come on. Long Mei, how are you? I'm fine. I have nothing to do. The Zhonghao city wall can no longer be defended. What should I do? Brothers, withdraw, brothers, withdraw, withdraw, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up. The attack has worked. The troops have entered. The attack has worked. The troops have entered. The Haolong family has gathered. Order Oshima Shigeru immediately. It's his turn to play. Master, sir, the reinforcements have arrived. Master, has the housekeeper come back? The housekeeper has not come back. The devils and devils have broken through the city wall and are almost at the ancestral tomb mountain, sir. We are almost at the ancestral tomb mountain. Master, the last moment has finally arrived. The last moment has finally arrived. Master, the ancestors of the Long family, the ancestors of the Long family, bless me. Follow me on the collection bar of the Long family. Well, Long Mei, be careful. Let's follow and walk. They're gone, so what about us? Let's go too. Okay, the Eighth Route Army reinforcements are here, folks, kill, folks, kill, wait, little devils, your doom has arrived in Longxicheng. You are so happy. The reinforcements of the Eighth Route Army have arrived, but you can't see it. Dad, stop, you beast. Who is your father? Go away, Oshima Shigeru. The bastard said that if you don't move, anyone in my family who stands in my way must die. Dad, what are you doing? Why bother? Why can't you just listen to your son's advice? You son of a [ __ ], you have lost your conscience, betrayed the country, and betrayed your relatives. You won't get a good end. Wait, God has eyes and won't spare you. From now on, I, the Long family, will cut you off with a clean cut. Just wait until you die. Come on, fellow villagers, rush, retreat, retreat, retreat quickly, report. A leading unit of the Eighth Route Army rushed in to support the Long family. They gathered their large forces and about a few regiments moved. How come there is the Eighth Route Army ten kilometers behind me? How did they get in? The report monitors the Chongqing Army Wanbu's troops and calls come from Wanbu's abnormal mobilization target Longjiaji Eighth Route Army It seems that if our army does not evacuate, it will be attacked from three sides. Bastard, old woman, old woman, master, master, master, master.