Hello, and welcome back. I'm Joseph Hoffman. Today we are learning a new song &quot;Five Woodpeckers&quot;. This song has a story and I need your help First let's make a tree. This tree is deep in the forest, and there were five woodpeckers that liked The first woodpecker was actually strangely and so he always pecked down low on the tree. Like this: woodpecker, tap tap. Then woodpecker number two was a little bit Woodpecker, tap tap. Number three was a little braver. Woodpecker, tap tap. And number four was braver still. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker number five was the bravest of Woodpecker, tap tap. Then they all pecked one more time. Looking for a bug. Yum! Can you tell what the woodpeckers were looking If you said a bug, you are right. They were looking for something to eat. Did you know that under the bark of a tree, And that's what the woodpeckers are tapping A little snack. Now will you try the whole song with me using and tapping on the tree with me together as Ready go. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker, tap tap. Looking for a bug. Yum! Now each of these woodpeckers has a name. Do you remember in &quot;Hot Cross Buns&quot; how we MI RE DO. And that lowest note was called DO. Well, the same thing in &quot;Five Woodpeckers&quot; the lowest woodpecker is also called DO. So now we're going to sing &quot;Five Woodpeckers&quot; and that will give each Woodpecker a name. We call the lowest one DO. The next one's The next one's called MI. And now here are FA and SO. Now let's try to sing the whole thing using Ready go. DO DO DO DO DO. RE RE RE RE RE . MI MI MI MI MI. FA FA FA FA FA . SO SO SO SO SO. SO FA MI RE DO. DO. Good job. Now, let's practice moving our fingers for Woodpecker number one which is DO is going This will be woodpecker number one. So I'll go first, then you take a turn. My turn. Woodpecker, tap tap. Now you try. Good. Next we'll move to woodpecker number Woodpecker, tap tap. Your turn. Good, now number three. Woodpecker, tap tap. Your turn. Now number four's turn. Woodpecker, tap tap. Your turn. Now number five's turn. Woodpecker, tap tap. Your turn. Good, now all five woodpeckers will get one starting with woodpecker number five. Looking for a bug. Yum! Your turn. Now, who caught the bug? DO RE MI FA or SO? If you said DO, you are correct. He's the one who said yum. Now, let's try the whole thing one more time Move your fingers with me and we'll say the Starting with DO. Ready go. DO DO DO DO DO. RE RE RE RE RE . MI MI MI MI MI. FA FA FA FA FA . SO SO SO SO SO. SO FA MI RE DO. DO. Good. Now you're ready to try it on the piano. For &quot;Five Woodpeckers&quot; we're going to be using Remember in one of our past lessons learning So can you point to the C on your screen that If you're pointing right here, you are correct. Now for this song, we're not only going to Let's point to each of these five notes and Let's say the letter names. Go. C, D, E, F, G. Now those five notes in this song will be DO RE MI FA and SO. Alright so now, using your great piano posture, C D E F G one finger for each note like this. Now you'll remember from piano posture that The only exception is your thumb, which is Now I'll play part of &quot;Five Woodpeckers&quot; and My turn first. We'll start with woodpecker Woodpecker, tap tap. Your turn. Now woodpecker number two. Woodpecker, tap tap. Now your turn. Good now woodpecker number three. Woodpecker, tap tap. your turn. Good now number four. Woodpecker, tap tap. Your turn. Good now number five. My turn. Woodpecker, tap tap. Your turn. Good. Now each woodpecker will peck one more Looking for a bug. Yum! Your turn. Great. Now one thing I want you to remember is to keep your fingers in a relaxed and curved and then also let your wrist bounce a little And that will help the note to go down. It's using the momentum and the motion of Now what I'd like you to do is press pause and when you're ready, press play again and Alright, now let's play &quot;Five Woodpeckers&quot; One, two, ready, go. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker, tap tap. Looking for a bug. Yum! Alright let's talk about how we can play &quot;Five using our left hand. The left hand usually feels more comfortable So can you point to a C that's on the lowest I you're pointing right here, you are correct. So our left hand also needs to cover up C but you'll notice for the left hand to be now instead of our thumb covering up C, since your left hand is built opposite of now our pinky will be on C. Then our other fingers will go up from there. So now when we start playing &quot;Five Woodpeckers&quot; our pinky will begin since it's on the lowest So let's try &quot;Five Woodpeckers&quot; now with our Okay it will look like this. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker, tap tap. Woodpecker, tap tap. Looking for a bug. Yum! Great job learning &quot;Five Woodpeckers&quot;. This is another song that I'd like you to Why don't you try three times in your right and three times in your left hand every day. The first time you play it I'd like you to The second time you play it I'd like you to Like this: DO DO DO DO DO. RE RE RE RE RE etcetera. Then the third time try singing the letter Like this: C C C C C. D D D D D. Etcetera. If you'd like the music you can download it website. Now for an extra super challenge, after you've one thing that you might want to try is playing I'm warning you, that's pretty tricky so I'd until you know it really well. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you next Here's how I would say it. Looking for a bug. Yuck! Who would want to eat a bug? I'd like a big piece of chocolate cake myself.