- In 2017, Tabetha Boyajian what was often dubbed the Now simply known as Boyajian's Star, the strangeness came from photometry. That means measuring the The bizarre dips in brightness with some even suggesting this could be an alien mega structure But after years of hard work, we figured out that it Since the strength of the dips in the same telltale pattern But all along there has which is arguably much, much weirder, one that remains a Przybylski's Star. Right off the bat, this being classified by The A there stands for A type, which just means it's hotter but the extra p that's been which trust me in this Okay, so then what's the Most A stars spin fast as in really fast, typically over 100 kilometers per second. In contrast, Ap stars spin much slower. For example, Przybylski's a modest 3.5 kilometers per second, not much faster than the sun's So what's going on? We think that effectively with fast spins, but sun-like stars slow down over time due to their strong magnetic fields, which capture ionized particles and fling them out at great distances causing a gradual braking effect. Crucially, A-type stars aren't expected to have strong magnetic fields, because their outer envelope That is energy transfer and thus they're actually In contrast, cooler sun-like stars have convective envelopes, so it's more like a boiling pot of water, and it's that stirring motion that drives their magnetic dynamo. So the slow rotation of and it implies that they have a strong magnetic field when they really shouldn't. Indeed, for the Przybylski's Star, that field is measured than that of the sun. As mysterious as this slow spin is, that's really just par for the course when it comes to these Ap-type stars, what really makes amongst this pack of already weird stars is its bizarre chemical composition. For most stars, astronomers can tell what chemical elements are by doing spectroscopy, the act of splitting light In doing so, we can see at their characteristic Fun fact, helium was actually discovered inside the sun's spectroscopically before it was discovered on earth, hence the name helium the Greek God of the sun. However, if the star spins too then each little patch of the Some parts being blueshifted This causes the normally to smear out and eventually you just can't distinguish AP stars are that because they are the only A-type stars which we can reliably measure The others are just spinning way too fast. So what elements do we see Well, this was first measured Antoni Przybylski, hence the which I am sure I keep despite my best efforts. The first thing he seems to have hardly any iron in it, which is weird, 'cause that's usually manufactured easily in Iron is also one of the and it looks like this star iron than the sun. Next, Przybylski noticed all which really shouldn't be there. I mean, I'm talking Lanthanum, Neodymium, Europium, Gadolinium, Terbium, Dysprosium, Holmium, Erbium. Lanthanum, and Osmium, And Gold, Protactinium, - Look, none of that stuff should be there beyond trace amounts, and yet somehow Przybylski's Star is seemingly swimming in it. It's been suggested that levitation effect going on here. Perhaps the quiescent radiative envelope, strong magnetic fields and interaction with photons conspire to push specific favoring certain elements over others, dependent on how they absorb light. Although it's not a fully hopefully that's enough to sleep at night without But wait, it gets even weirder, because it is possible that this star has been If you're wondering what but our finding that the word salt is distracting you from thoughts of some well, let's scratch that and its element. LMNT, pronounced element, make these powdered in great flavors like orange, You just rip it open, chuck it give it a shake, and you're good to go. LMNT sent me these to try, and I loved it so much that I ended up buying a boatload before they even became a sponsor. So yes, I really do love this product. One reason is that I do and so that means that in the mornings I'm often craving something in my stomach and LMNT reliably carries me through. I also usually work out just before lunch, and I can honestly say that having LMNT during that window is a game-changer. It's just a few calories, it tastes delicious, especially and it helps me power through Personally, I get a lot and working out by using LMNT, and so it has become a part of my routine. Try the product by using the link DrinkLMNT.com/CoolWorlds. That's DrinkLMNT.com/CoolWorlds. Link is down below in the description. You'll get a free sample no commitment needed, so you can start getting salty today. Thank you to LMNT for sponsoring us today, and also thank you for frankly helping me to discover this gem of a product. Now, back to the video. The Przybylski's Star doesn't just have weird chemical abundances. It has seemingly impossible abundances. In 2008, Ukrainian astronomer, found that the star contains things with half-lives of thousands or even hundreds of years. I'm talking Actinium, Plutonium, Americium, Curium, Berkelium, Californium, Einsteinium. Lanthanum, and Osmium, And Gold, Protactinium - Stop, stop. Seriously, just listen to these names. Berkelium, as in UC Berkeley. Einsteinium as in Albert Einstein. Californium as in California. And who can forget Plutonium. These are all manmade elements. This is not stuff that or stars for that matter. I mean, think about this. Actinium has a half-life of just 22 years, so what the hell is it doing inside a billion-year-old That makes no sense. There's no fusion going up there. There should be no mixing with the core for a radiative envelope like this. So the discovery of these elements here is flabbergasting, astonishing even. The presence of the short-lived elements so far from the core implies that nuclear reactions are somehow occurring near the surface of a star. Now, this can't be fusion. It is just nowhere near the temperature and pressure conditions needed. This stuff could only be made inside most intense astrophysical Here's the astronomer's periodic table showing you where we think As you can see, Plutonium by neutron star collisions. Notice how Actinium, don't have any pathway. They just simply shouldn't Indeed, the authors don't even bother to consider anything because it's just so ridiculous. Yet the Przybylski's Star has Americium, Curium, Berkelium, Lanthanum, and Osmium, And Gold, Protactinium, - What do I feel like I'm in Anyway, how do we explain this? Now, as far as I'm aware, there are really only on the table. 1, misinterpretation, 2, the island of stability, and 3, yes, you guessed it, aliens. The first one, the most boring on that list, which perhaps means it's the The truth is though, how these radioactive elements Why? Well, for context, just over one gram, one gram of Berkelium in the United States since 1967. No one's ever actually put this stuff in a 10,000-Kelvin oven and So the characteristic and it's quite possible that and instead of seeing we are instead seeing a far just behaving in an unexpected way. But it is also possible that and if so, we would have on our hands. How could we possibly explain the presence of these heavy elements here? Nuclear reactions must be going on to provide a continuous supply of these short-lived radioactive elements. It can't be fusion, because the conditions are just so that leaves us with fission But for something to make, atomic number 99, it would heavier than this. But therein lies the problem, because as far as we know, beyond this point, such synthesized elements decay However, for decades, that there could be an island of stability higher up the periodic table, elements with a so-called Possible candidates would be and 310 Unbihexium, where the latter two names are really just placeholder since those two elements have never actually been Several isotopes of Flerovium but sadly not 298 Flerovium. The closest we've got is 290, which is still eight neutrons shy. However, in that case, we half-life of 19 seconds, and so maybe this implies a true island of stability with half-lives of potentially This idea was first pitched by who calculated the expected of these magic elements. So we know what to look for. The spectral analysis and we haven't been able to really search for these methodically. I think it's only natural to be a little bit skeptical If Przybylski's Star really then why don't we have And even trace amounts. Was there some kind of that explains this one star? Zuber's solution is neat, but for me it really just a little bit since now we have a different mystery to explain. And so, that leaves us with aliens. Ugh, it's always a little bit unsatisfying when you have to invoke that you don't yet understand. This is God of the gaps I think the case of Przybylski's Star is perhaps a little bit The idea is that these because someone dumped them One motivation could be waste disposal as depicted in Superman IV. Nuclear waste disposal is of course a real and very major problem, so perhaps throwing it into your star is indeed a solution Whitmire and Wright first suggested this, and they also said that the would be between spectral And although there is some uncertainty about exactly what type it's almost certainly in this range. What makes this particularly Whitmire and Wright but Vera Gopka didn't detect those radiative So this is apparently a that was later observed. In fact, if we go even further Carl Sagan and Iosif Shklovsky proposed that aliens might as a way of attracting attention. In either scenario, it around Przybylski's Star now and is actively dumping as part of an ongoing process. So what to make of all of this? Well, first, I would love confirming the existence of that claim is particularly sensational and difficult to explain. Second, even if confirmed, we need to better understand of these heavy elements. Is it possible that these are just mirages deceiving us due to our And third, personally, the possible planet around this star as well as its overall This star has not received anywhere near the same amount of attention or fanfare that Boyajian's Star received. But there's something here, Whatever the answer, it our astrophysics understanding. Perhaps there is some exotic in this star or maybe or perhaps a bizarre Or maybe just, maybe 357 light years away, looking up and wondering an unimaginable discovery So until next time, stay (gentle music) Thank you so much watching I hope you've enjoyed it. If you did, be sure to give it a like, it really does help us with the algorithm, and if you really wanna help to my research team, the Cool Worlds Lab, right here at Columbia University, that is Axel Nimmerjahn. Thank you so much for your support. See you next time.