One hit KO moves should be some of the A move that KOs whatever it hits, or typing? But it isn't. Although these moves can pick up otherwise be safe, They only hit 30% of the time. Of course, there are ways to increase Moves like Gravity even increase all moves' But these guaranteed kill They can't have their accuracy boosted or by raising the accuracy stat, These moves are stuck No matter what you do. At least that seems to be when they designed They didn't want there their probability of hitting, be completely broken since, whatever they hit in one turn. But unfortunately for the big Pikachu, of different abilities And it turns out when you put But wait, why are we even talking Why would anybody want to build a team Well, that's because of Dua Lipa. Now I like Dua Lipa. I think she's a really talented artist I also live in Washington, D.C. so when I saw this tweet that Dua Lipa was here in my city, Now, for those of you Lipa is an internationally famous and I am an unusually hairy adult man So if I can be honest, I didn't really But I also didn't expect that posting There, in my replies, the gift of prophecy 'Bro is more likely to hit a Sheer Cold Immediately, I knew what I had to do. I needed to find a way of making Sheer thus maximizing my odds. But how? Sheer Cold's accuracy can't be increased. It's stuck at 30%. No matter what I do, I can't increase it But there is a single ability that causes accuracy and evasion This ability, called No Guard, doesn't increase a Pokemon's accuracy Instead, it causes all moves targeting the user to hit In other words, this ability disables So if a Pokemon with this ability Cold, it becomes a one hit But now we're hitting the first roadblock. No Pokemon with the ability No Guard learns any one hit KO moves. But we have a way around this. One of my favorite moves of all time the ability of the user and the ability you can use this move on your own partner. I used Skill Swap to get second at the World Championships in 2012 Levitate ability, turning its quadruple and we can use it here to give a Pokemon None of the No Guard Pokemon can learn so all we need is a Pokemon who learns and the Pokemon that learns Well okay, technically Smeargle learns because number one, I hate it. And number two, it's way too frail I guess I can't do it, it can't be done. I can't make Sheer You deserve so much better. Unless... Okay, so there's no Pokemon that can learn both a one And there's also no No Guard Pokemon But what if I added What if another Pokemon skill swapped and then skill swapped it to the That would technically work, I think? To be clear, this is very, very stupid. This requires multiple turns of set up and three of your own Pokemon If you lose a piece of the puzzle before you lose the game on the spot This is a stupid strategy, let alone during a tournament. So anyway, I started building. Yes, this is probably the most out there team that I've attempted And yes, getting a single win with But I received a call to adventure I don't care if I need to use every ounce that I've built over the last I will craft this team The place to start with a team Now there are technically four different if they hit. Guillotine, Horn Drill, But the prophet specifically mentioned Sheer Cold, And when it comes to Sheer Cold the rest. Lapras. I'm looking for the because all that matters is the Pokemon Since every attack I get to use In the current ruleset for the official competitive formats, Sheer Cold, and Lapras is by far Of course, It doesn't work against opposing Ice So I need to find some way for Lapras Thankfully, Lapras learns my all time This move causes to faint in three turns, Of course, pokemon's partners, the pesky won't be able to switch out. Lapras should be able to KO every Pokemon in the game I round out and Protect to make it harder item for some healing. I select Ghost as my Tera type which could otherwise stop Sheer Cold With my one hit KO user secured, The good news is that there is a No Guard user It can do big damage and it learns But the bad news is that Machamp In fact, and Violet are Lycanroc-Midnight that are so bad they have never seen But if I'm going to pull this off, So it's no use complaining. After looking through the moves that both these Pokemon learn extensively, It's got more useful support moves since it has three immunities making it slightly easier to switch in. It also learns the move Dynamic Punch, And frankly, I'm going to need all the help I can get I can use Tera fighting to boost Dynamic threatening Pokemon Gholdengo, giving Golurk Of course, Golurk is mainly here to Reflect, which reduces all physical damage Light Clay, which causes Reflect I'd have loved to give Golurk Light Screen, of Reflect, but it doesn't learn it, This move deals half of Golurk's health, by Curse to lose a quarter of their health Curse has been used a little bit before to stop big set up Pokemon but I'm using it here because I actually once I've stolen No Guard so that I can bring in Lapras The final piece of the core Initially, I was looking at Stantler, item, Instead, I decide to bring back an old Bronzong is a very tanky defensive Steel giving Bronzong tons of resistances makes Bronzong immune And crucially, normally, being slow is a bad thing Pokemon to attack before your opponents, the speed order and causes Trick Room. Since both Lapras and Golurk that if this strategy is going to work, Bronzong can reverse the speed order and then use Skill Swap to steal but it can also make use of No Hypnosis puts whatever it hits to sleep, to 3 turns, with the downside of it Of course, with No Guard, just a little bit less noticeable. I round out because it's the Pokemon that is needed I want a way to keep it safe. Tera Dark turns Bronzong's Ghost and Mental Herb makes it so that a single Since all of Bronzong's moves don't do any damage, Taunt would otherwise force At this point, the core is complete This strategy is precarious to begin with, as well. Most notably, Amoonguss. so that actually makes it and it can put my Pokemon It can also redirect my Skill Swap all moves to target the user, and breaking the precarious chain There's also Kingambit, one of the strongest This is one of the most used Pokemon at present, because it's incredibly The main set at the moment is Swords Dance with two Dark moves, that's nearly impossible to get rid of Normally, this is to hit it for a ton of damage because I can't really do anything These two Pokemon are such honestly, I'm ready to give up I just can't see a way for my team to I can't just hope I'm scrolling through the entire Pokedex I see something. Clefable. Clefable is a pure Fairy type Pokemon As a Fairy type, it resists dark won't be able to damage it easily. Of course, they could just use Swords except against Clefable specifically, has the ability Unaware, which ignores No matter how many times Kingambit uses Swords Dance, against Clefable, it's Now, normally, Kingambit and target down its partner. But Clefable learns the move Follow Me, and forces your opponent In other words, Clefable can turn one of the But what about Amoonguss? Well, making it immune to both Spore Clefable can protect the rest of my team but if you've been paying close attention, that Clefable redirecting Spore stealing And that's why Clefable also knows so that against an opponent I can use Clefable to pass completely bypassing the mushroom. I finish Clefable's moveset off which are the two most consistent options, to resist the steel moves of Gholdengo The Sheer Cold mode is now complete, I'm bringing this team to a tournament and to win a round of this tournament, Pulling off No Guard Sheer Cold is Doing it twice against the same opponent So I think I want an alternate mode But with four of my Pokemon how am I going to fit a whole I need to make use of the Pokemon already on the team, so I'm going to add a little homage This strategy combines the move Perish Song, which causes unless they switch, with the ability Shadow The strategy doesn't work that can switch out manually, or Gholdengo, user goes down, The only Shadow Tag user A pure Psychic type Pokemon. Gothitelle learns fake out, which prevents which is quite valuable for a strategy It can also heal its partners with Heal Protect is the best move on any Perish to hit frail Pokemon for good damage, who is one of the most popular Pokemon The item Sitrus Berry helps keep Gothitelle alive by restoring Water is useful against Fire, Water, which are all mainstays With just one Pokemon left, I add the best I don't like Incineroar, but it provides extremely valuable support lowers my opponent's damage output, works with both of the modes Unlike my normal defensive Incineroar, this time I decide to use a very fast to allow me to have a faster Fake Out knock out And since Gholdengo is really strong this feels pretty valuable. so many of my stat points in my speed this incineroar is a bit frailer I give it the Assault Vest item This does mean I need to use U-turn the damaging move but I think that's a small price to pay One weird thing about this Incineroar is that it has the move Throat Chop The reason for this whatever it hits from using sound because other Incineroar which would allow them If I hit them with Throat Chop, though, they'll continue to be I give Incineroar a Tera Type of Grass to help with my Amoonguss weakness, If you want to try this team for yourself, on screen here. If you're interested in the full breakdown I post all of my tournament teams there weeks and sometimes months I also post three extra videos to high level matches and breakdowns talking about things like 'did you lose and Wolfe's Guide to Synergy. If any of that sounds interesting to you, I show my friends genuine concern and then find the biggest tournament has over 160 players, which I need to win six of them into the final bracket, I would consider Now, normally at this point in the video I would ask you to subscribe, I feel strongly that the content on you can get anywhere else on YouTube, I think that at some point you are going to see something something that you've never seen before, something I don't even have like It's just that this tournament, things happened who watches it If that happens to you, And if not, no worries. So with all that being said, I boot up my switch and hop online to see just what And Dua Lipa, if you are watching this, I've been kind of bored lately. I've been on a break from competing The time has been a lot harder I just wish something Like, I don't know, meeting a dragon Wait. Oh my God. Is that an Alpine Dragon from Dragon City? The sponsor of this video? In Dragon City, there's over I really like the guy I met earlier. You just seems like a chill dude. I've been battling against other players Turns out the World I've also really been enjoying customizing my city I feel like the king of my own My boredom is cured, my eggs are hatching, Or whatever it is you kids say nowadays. My dragons are Sigma? Skibidi? Toilet? Rizz? Anyway, you too can be thriving or scanning the QR code to download You'll even get a special starter 30,000 gold, He's so cool! I use a lot of fun teams on my channels. Do not try this at home. It will not work for you Do not try this at home. I'm serious. I think I'm gonna lead off Normally the lead is bronze on Clefable, but I actually don't care So I think I'm gonna bring in Centaur. Who? Someone has very kindly named Tanaka. It's either in an Oracle fable Clefable in a game. One scenario. I don't know if they're going to do So you know what? Let's give this a shot. I'm going to try and catch them off guard I gotta watch out for our cowering. Kind of. I kind of have to watch out for a coward Teleport. Caledon are the leads. Okay, cool. People. People. Cool. So we're going to get them. They get drizzle up. I can figure out either Pokemon here. Oh, okay. Okay. Good start, good start, good start, Okay. Protect from palaver. Here's the fake out into the air. Caledon is going to give them We don't. That's fine. We get trigger em up for free okay. This is a good start. This is a really good start. Okay? This requires some setup. This requires So we have now hypnosis threat active. However what we want to do Let's get no guard on to bronze long. This will make hypnosis Bronze one should make it through the turn Skill swap. So now, let's keep track of the abilities Like now. Has no guard. Here's weather ball. Oh, it died okay. Please, No no no, that's so good. That's so good. Here we go. Good luck is down. We've lost a Pokemon. Here's electroshock. I'm However, Because our Callanan So we have three turns left to go. Lurk has gone down. Yes, However, Braunton was chosen Even a possible special attack from that actually did more than I thought Bronze. So tanks. It probably would have taken Now Lapras is on the field inside Long has no guard and skill swap, so Max, I got to fix that. If bronze, Lapras will now have the ability. No guard and no guard means that can kill a Pokemon So pure gold comes out Our camera goes down to single hit. Boy here's arcane. That's not funny. Please don't confuse But crit me dog this okay? It's fine, it's fine. Finisher. That's okay. I can deal with finisher. Here's my translation. I don't want my Lapras to go down to, to match the gotcha here, So instead, what we're gonna do Here we go. Now I'm no longer weak to sinister, okay? And let's, you know, since Why don't we borrow it? Here's rates. No. That's fine. We were targeting sinister anyway. Here Your skill swap. So I'm going to give it to Water I don't want to use a water move here. Here's water absorb I don't know this for sure, but it should Let's see here. Here's hospitality. Somebody borrowing as Lapras connects another here cold. Here we go. See a sinister. Thanks for playing. Hurricane comes out in the Lapras. But I healed so much health. Yeah, Yep. That's. Actually. How many turns we're left? Two. Okay. I'm that spooky now. So here's Incineroar. This game is still not over. I actually could still lose this turn, it's totally possible I think we want to see a protect. We're in good shape. Yeah, we should be okay. Okay, here we go. Her song comes out, the song will faint in three turns. We don't even need to take all the kalos Here's arcane. As long as I don't get confused here. Actually, even with confusion, I'm okay. Okay. Rain's over this. I think, quite difficult for them Yeah. In three turns this battles over anyway, so we just and then the game becomes ours. Let's go for. That's the trick room. But it's fine. Now keep in mind Two out of three. So even winning one, two, one game The second game and even it's not over This is either Dark Tarot for the damage, or it's Ghost Either one is okay. I've covered from both options. They're going to try and go for a throat chop here, This is focus amnesia. Yeah. Like it's. It's fine. What do we have to worry about here Basically, there's fake out We want to make sure As long as I don't lose Lapras. This turn. Let's see. We can act hurricane without the rain. Okay. No confusion. Yep, that's the end of that. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Okay. Lapras is hit three. You're cold. Oh, we can't, can't miss. I have no guard. Okay, GG all right, so we won game one. However, There are legitimate threats, on the opponent's side that can mess up So, I do need to watch out for that. Unfortunately. Okay. That's the worst case scenario. I think I was like, sinister. Okay, let's just switch it out. Okay? See, this is insane. Okay, cool. But not cool, but not unlawful either. Getting the intimidate because Mousehole I'll put. Yes. Oh, it has a population bomb, but it's, friend guard and it's safety Here's my incineroar. That they might protect. They might not sometimes use taunt and instead on the full fest, That is totally fine. This goes tera insane. Yeah. I gotta get rid of this now. This. Does she like 30? Yeah, about 30. This is ghost hair on both my hands. Okay. Protect from mouse hold. Fake out. This looks like a dead turn, I think, because we've confirmed that their incineroar is slower That's actually very good to know. Nope. They're faster. Just wasn't paying population bomb comes out in two. Got the tail okay. We just every kill we take matters a lot. But getting rid of this mouse hold is really important Oh, I got the key. Oh. Oh right. I'm strong. Wait. That's huge. Now that mouse was gone. Now that mouse load is gone. Oh, am I saying I forget now, because taunt is off the table. There's no more taunt. Okay, Sneasel is the last Pokemon. Okay, a brand class. The reason I'm doing this is that I'm Otherwise I would actually consider But because they could dart here to stop because. Lapras, here's the terror. Now that the terror is out, instead from switching out. Which is good. Here's dark Tara. Oh, this could be throw chop. Actually, I didn't consider that. I also could go for. I could try and go for Moon Blast here if I wanted I wasn't gonna do it, Nice. It's. Which for me, the real the threat there was that Lapras is going to take Let's see what they do with Ensign. Parting shot. Oh, interesting. Okay, hang on a second, then. I don't want to play this. I can go for, Yeah, I should have probably carried because I don't want to take full power Oh, life. Dude. Yeah. Lapras being a full That makes this a lot easier. So here's the deal. I sacrifice cool fable which looks silly. However, since we get parasol up and So sinister is a ghost type However, Sneasel is not a ghost types, neither is a dark type And that means that it cannot And what that means is And go for fake out into Sneasel, With the Paris counter now being active so I can bring it back and yeah, yeah, It might have been noted here at the turn. I think that was probably Yeah. So here we go, ensigns. Back on the field, three Here's fake out into Sneasel This will break the focus, Here's life two again. However, it's In my opinion. So the real threat is that this turn Okay. Yeah, I think I'm okay, but. Well, this skull, Why did they do so much? Okay, it didn't do that Thanks to help. Helpless. Okay, so. One, one. And. Oh, God, that was another pair of traps, Okay, then I'm fine. Hang on a second. This stay in was sinister There's They could switch for no, no cost. Let's see. Okay. Other switch. Okay. So sinister. Slower than Incineroar. That's good to know. It also has the Rocky So as long as Lapras does not get crit Near guaranteed Oh, doesn't even have much of gotcha. Okay dialog I was gonna tear out, chat to say something, didn't I? That's I should still win. That's fine. Okay, so I've used the parasol to chaos. Needler took a couple turns, Thanks for the dono extra. My favorite mega is Mega Anger. Okay, so it's a two versus three. I should have the advantage here, So all I need to do is wait until and then I should win the game. Especially with the finishers So now I was back on the field. We just need to keep Lapras alive Here's life, do you? I guess they could. Scott. They should be scalding for sure. But I understand whether or not there's It's the right play. I did a lot, actually, I should I Terra here got the towel Take out I okay? Yeah. They're not going for scald. I think they're afraid that I'm going which I get, but I'm not doing that. Yeah. There's flinch and then let's see That's fine. Again, one wake up wins this game, So let's go for U-turn here. Rage powder comes out. Okay, fine. I mean, I'm not attacking with it anyway. With Live Instant. Really? Anyway, because my U-turn. And even if I stay asleep this turn, So I'm really. I'm in good shape. Truly. A little rocky. That rocky. How much? I've actually done a lot more than I that to go for his flare blitz. Okay, that was the right move It might have killed. Actually, I could have lost this. Okay. Three turns. The maximum sleep turns three. Yeah. This game is now guaranteed over There is no move that my opponent can make my opponent can win. Song, in my opinion, Paris counter set up, it does not matter what your opponent There's nothing they can do this to. This game is officially, well, not officially in the sense that it's over, but I, as the player, know Two turns of Paris song left in two turns. This battle will be over No amount of healing from sinister, Knock off you. It doesn't matter. In the end, the only thing that matters And the counter is ticking down. Good offensive moves There's you know Well however it doesn't matter. The Paris counter continues to drop. Let's let the sheer cold. Let's let's just let's go for a wash. They forfeit. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. There was. At that point. So that's the way that it works. That's the way I think that we have tools here. Truthfully, that we have tools in this match up. It's useless. Psychic Seed and Bird and Terror, Claudia Joy, who's gone? So this is we can quit this problem. Let's try one, two, three and four, I don't I don't think super good matchups But I think that we have tools here, And they don't have any grog like through Okay. And green are the lead. Interesting. I have Lapras and Incineroar the anxious goggles, expanding force, terror Here's the terror. This is probably fire terror from going down in a single hit. Which is okay, and this is probably Oh any force. Yeah. They want Lapras gone, Lapras is the biggest threat here. That crit is actually really bad. That's actually quite, quite bad. Okay, your turn comes out. I crit as well. That one doesn't matter. Who got parasol? Well we don't. Yeah. The crit is really bad. Water floods. Okay. Intend. There's a lot of damage. Other life. Where? Oh I definitely didn't So. Right. How strong is water flood? Hang on. Maybe it's stronger than I thought. Maybe. Okay, I need to let me double check them. I got $2 ending force. Oh, I can check the speed tiers. Hold on. I'm so foolish. I can check the speed tiers I think they just really high roll. I think they might, you know, they. Max rolled my the water pledge. All right. I got $2 missing Eevee's wood, Here's a fun fact. Parish counter of the parish So first of all, second The taller is a Marina. Premium is faster than my Lapras. Okay, so if deal goes down It just sucks. Yeah. Spending for us. We need this to do. Not that much. Okay. That's good. That should be fine Maximum damage from Moon Blast is, damage and 114. So there's mumbles into golf. Okay, that's fine. Here's Hill So basically I've all taken two kilos here Okay. Like And it's better to have a Pokemon if you go down here rather than a Pokemon and can do like something like golf But like, we need lotteries And the golf. Thank you for your service. It took the attacks that needed to which is really, really good. Hyper voice comes out okay. So this game is not over we can still be in some trouble. I imagine It would be like sneeze or Sylveon. We just need to make it through this This is kind of tricky. Okay, here's Owen Caesar's Well, fable just protected. Sylveon comes out. I'm expecting sneeze or Sylveon. Masquerade, actually. Okay. So. All right. This is the last turn of psychic terrain. If both Pokemon make it through the If only Lapras makes it through the turn, And if neither Pokemon makes it Follow me. Protecting Lapras from either knock off or more realistically, flower trick They probably felt like like then you need to get a read, Okay, even with a crit on Lapras, So this person I'm like I said, this At this point, there's no longer a way Yeah. No, there's no even with Let's check here. Sylveon is faster than Clefable. How fast is my clefable again? Okay. That does. That's obvious. It's actually faster. Okay, okay, cool. Psychic train is gone. Now. At this point, what I would like to do is actually use what if Sylveon is softer than Incineroar, being really important. I think if I were trick, I can save one of my Pokemon. I feel like I should save. I'm going to save Lapras However, yeah, it That's just arbitrary. But I like Lapras is kind of the star That's my reasoning. Okay. I can figure out Sylveon. Yes. However, what I want to know because that could be a big deal Flower trick. Oh, it's generally faster I forgot Yeah, it's definitely faster. There's hyper way in a lot. That's a so I guess it is. I guess it is. Spec Sylveon okay, there's Paris And what that means is that Lapras can protect him in the game. Okay. That's fine. Okay, so this is a this is a case Like, you still want to keep playing, that my incineroar is faster which I suspected anyway But it's still good to know for sure. And there is a reason There's a reason why that could be And now, even though that both out speed and kill it, Because as you will see here, That means it's the end of both And so even though Lapras didn't I don't know if I connected. I connected one U-turn. That's the only thing I did to do damage. I kind of expect them to leave with me. How grata is that? Is that foolish of me, It's really doesn't make much sense but it's so funny. If it works, give it a shot. Indeed. Okay. And eating the It's deck. We do. We do. Goes first. I can't intimidate this thing, So, I mean, only one of these Pokemon Okay. We would love if this were. Indeed, Okay. All right, hang on. Let's see what they go for here. Could be imprisoned. It could be terrible. Either one. Let's see. Here is in prison. Okay, so I can trick them. However, I just went for hypnosis. See what happens next there. Their max speed. That's crazy. And they got a crit. Oh, no. Yeah. Okay, well, Okay. That's not what I was expecting. That is a quite unfortunate kind of missed hypnosis. Okay, well, that one just about I think I just lose now, actually, they're probably going over terrible and let's they. Yeah. Expanding. I mean, like, because I could just start hitting Okay. We're actually. We're actually back in it. If I hit this hypnosis. We're not in it. Okay. Yeah. Okay. All right. Yeah. In prison indeed. Is kind of good into my comp. No, sorry. Go dark I did. I really did try to save you, Oh, okay. We're back in it. Hang Maybe I just need to hit for two sheer That's it. If I hit does that's literally the win condition. Okay, fine. It's fine. I have unlimited health. Yeah, okay. If I hit both moves, I'm chillin. I can still win this. I just need a couple. Sure. Gold. Okay. I need more shekels in that. Okay. I'm in trouble. I have nothing running to do any more Just be careful. Your gold doesn't go, Come on, Lapras, does it? You want to stay asleep? Okay. And then. Sure. Cold connect. Come on, come Let me. I wanted to connect you to. Okay. This one for sure. They're going to get the three turns. Leave. I'm going to hit. Okay. Two turn. Sleep. Stay asleep. If it wakes up, it over. Okay, okay. Okay. Good. Okay. If it hits here, just hit. Oh, there. So. Oh, doomed. It unbelievably doomed. Okay. Protect. All right. Wakes up okay. Triple arrows. Oh, no. No thank. Ready. My defense now I. Oh okay. All right. This is why I need no guard. I think I no longer have a chance to win Hang in there. Leprosy lives. Right. Copium. Oh, you do have this Copium. Hey, you got crit every turn. Oh, did I do I? Okay, okay. Hey, these are the feelings gun. I have a different lead this time. Now they're trapped on the field, Problem. Isn't It has 50% crit rate with its stupid. Razor claw. Unfortunately, I can't intimidate you can do, I. That's what I thought was gonna happen. So I guess after they won, So this means that it is only 50% chance to quit. If it doesn't crit, If it doesn't crit, It kind of looks terrible. I me, they could go really terrible So here I am in pretty big trouble I don't know how much play does, but I assume because this thing I mean, I should take this somewhere. Well, though Come on, it didn't. Hang in there. Oh, okay. Let's go. Okay. It's survived. That's a huge survival. Absolutely massive. And did dooby I think I'm gonna lose this. Actually, I think I've made him. I think I've made errors. Now that I look at it again. Because. Yeah, by using the terror there, I don't do enough damage either. Yeah. With me, I think I actually didn't macro me, I screw out of comes in and I'm Right. Because I keep spreading and slowly runs in. And what does that mean? I'm gonna let me go down. I don't think I want to be able Yeah. They were So I, I think it's only 50%. It shouldn't be creating more than that. I think a pretty big danger here. However, I think. Paper voice chat ball actually. Okay. If it's shadow ball shadow, I wish I had my terror left. If I had the terror on Lapras here, I like Is the problem. Hey, no crits. The question Here's the question. Here's the question. See here. So Shadow Ball comes out That was really special okay. This isn't stab. Yep. Like it comes out. Not bad frankly doesn't kill. However I have known blast. This is gonna be down to the wire, folks. I do not know if I'll be able to win this. However, the good news is that's locked into Shadow Ball, that powerful of a move Now Scarlet is the last. Okay, so we have all the pieces this is possible to win. Lapras does take a shot. The flower trick though, is the thing. Okay, cool. They got the kill. Because my last Pokemon is Lapras and And so I think I should have because they're Sylveon really fast. So even though it's a two against two, Listen to against two. However, in a two against two, Right? And as you against two However, what determines the winner of a match to pair of song is because the person faints and speed order So if my clefable makes it, those turn, and the shadow ball, that should do Okay, I'm not even going. Don't even a critical hit Your shadow ball comes out. How much does people survive? It would have been enough, Harrison goes up and so there's three All four Pokemon will faint However, they could side knock off, It gives them hyper beam, but then they're So okay. And protect there is. This is not guaranteed over. There's still ways for them to win this They could have gone for a side knock off I think it makes sense. I'll put your shadow ball juggle. Fable two turns left and Clefable and and, and take the flower trick So here's follow me. Just follow me. I get enough force to target Clefable The end of Clefable. However, Clefable is more than done. His job. Takes the crit goes down. My last Pokemon left is this Lapras here? Shadow ball Sylveon is choice. Vex is forced to use Shadow Ball. Here we go. Not a lot of damage. Doesn't give a special defense drop here. Substitute Piper survives. And now there's just one more turn left and all four of these Pokemon will faint. Here's flower trick. Doesn't matter into the protect Sylveon. Final move here is shadow ball doesn't work. Lapras behind a substitute. It's not going down anytime soon. And although Lapras will faint here, Parrish counters hit hitting is not cleanse itself of the Paris It activates in speed order Second Sylveon. And last but not least, with zero Pokemon At present, It doesn't play the animation With no Pokemon left. Your winner is me, Gigi. Every Pokemon fainted. Every single one of them. I actually think the nose The question is, do I want to do I don't think that this is a Parrish game a lot of the mods here and there. The forbidden strategy is not parasol. The forbidden strategy is I genuinely Oh my god, they have Monet's. They got Monet's. You go in this game. Oh okay, here's the Terra. Probably still right. It's still her. It's flying. Sorry. Dragonite. I mean sorry, Cliff. Abel, Bestie. I could have tried my clefable here. You know what I could have done here? I think, actually, that I think I Yeah, because this is outrage People's gone. That's a lot actually. Okay, I think I think I may have just I think I messed up, actually, The Avengers mine, I messed it up. Okay, hang on. Oh, okay. I actually just lose. That I think I'm actually, because I was, like, Yeah, I was, and I was fine, too, Hang on. Let's Okay. Hang on. There's a there's I can't win anymore. I meant to go and take a look if I really Let's go hypnosis here and. Sure. I mean, this is the win condition I can't believe I did that. Okay, hypnosis hits, because once I lose Lapras, I think for once, I lose Brunson. Come on, let brass I get it. My bad. Yeah. The thing is, actually knowing now that Probably gone too strong. Okay. Actually, could I. I could still win this. Probably not. It's possible. I don't get to get it to go the. Yeah, I know what to do. And also it's actually I mean, I haven't but it actually is still possible I just need to hit one at some point. Is the thing like that's really it. If I hit one at some point, then I'm okay. Yeah, I need that. My that I need. Yeah yeah that was super. My bad I okay I learned a lot here here. And also okay it's still winnable I, I probably won't win this but it is That's literally all it takes. Once you're. Oh. Okay. It's winnable. It's winnable. I might need a second here. Cold. I can be honest. Islamic much? Oh wait, I can. Kirk. Now a lot of work. Yeah. If I hit your cold. Yeah. I think I'm to loose. I am, I think I don't, I needed to kill the dyno, though. Or, like, before I hit the sheer cold. Oh, wait. Hang on. It's doable. It's actually doable. I'm so goated. Oh, I should dynamic punched. Wait, I can do it. I can still win. But. But only a dynamic punch kills Otherwise. Otherwise not happening. Okay, let's not let's not move too quickly It's moves. That is, make it rain. Shadow ball, Thunderbolt and trick torch. Diggory has Draco meteor muddy which means that the only move that can So if I go for Dynamic punch regardless, right? Because then they have to walk in Draco, I'll do it. I'll just protect it. Fine. Okay. I made a Terra fighting on. Go look specifically that a Coco Pokemon like no The question is, does the thing have both? Does it survive? It does not. It goes down. Goes down to a single hit for my Terra which never misses thanks to no guard, It never misses because of no guard, Trigger misses up however, doesn't matter. Here is dynamic punch Draco meteor again I survive. That's going to seal it. There's no other way for them to win. I believe. Okay, who needs no guard? Galactic freak. Oh wait. No, it took two. I got two dynamic punch deals. And until, sheer cold chaos. Woo! Okay, let's give it a shot. Okay. Let's do what I should have done. Which is number one. Wait 15 seconds. Oh we get we now just know the terror. And we also know what move they're using. And if it's terrorists, If it's terror, if they make the same play Which is good because I like counterplay. It's fun for me to do okay protect now that they can't tear a dragon I feel like less pressure Just make it rain. And I expect this to be outrage. So the reason why I'm doing it's the same position as last game. However, both these Pokemon are holding which means they can't switch their moves. But this allows me to do And now that I know what moves are locked into, Which is nice. Because this makes them mean. This means that I survived the, My wife, I just go down. Okay? It looks like Not now, baby. Oh. My soul. Is everything still okay anyway? Here. Now, I don't have to take the outrage Clefable. With with Dragonite, Clefable go down here, which is okay. The question is, do I take minus and then outwards through a flat? That's the big question, right? So close down, which is good for me. We actually want able to go down here cuz The question is are they going to hit And then how much is minus one. Make it rain. A double up bronze is very bulky. I lose the crit, but like I'm okay And in a best case scenario, Here. Skill swap. So now no guards on bronze long Look, here is reflective cover. My next move here's outraging to go look. That's amazing. Oh my goodness. If this okay. As long as Bronzor doesn't get crit here Like really good shape. Great. Although outrage at a ton Been outrage. There. And they're not confused yet. Which is good because that means that because it's locked in outrage. So now, even though I've lost two Pokemon, Chat. I might lose this, Okay, so single thing out because if they can stall through the Oh, hold on a second. It's smart. Yes. However, Dragonite goes down here. So a two versus three. Now how many of you need to or last? Because I have an idea here. I have an idea and it's not super obvious. But then that comes back in interesting. Okay, I miss hypnosis okay. However I can from building it was that. And that's good to know. The can't terror anymore. I go for some that's actually really bad. The last Pokemon has tons of glory. That's actually really bad. Oh, no. Okay, that's a little threatening. I'm not going to lie to you. That is just a wee bit threatening. Okay? This is this is scary. They can stall me or time This is why I need AP on sheer cold, Okay, so they attack here. I think the advantage is mine. I don't know how how how much heavier I also don't know what damage Okay, not very much is my guess. However, with Bronze Lung still alive I can trigger room again And there's still one thing my opponent has forgotten about. I should have taken the time, oh yeah, I knew it. I knew they did forget bronze Lapras is water absorb. So I knew that if I protected at the prior Because it only has heavy Those are his only moves. Another sheer gold comes out Re showing toxic gearing. Poor little toxic gearing. Alone in trick room. I got some bronze long and Lapras. Lapras back to full HP. Pretty much. And four tubs of Geary You do nothing against sheer cold, man, I was really, really hoping that they, Water absorb on the Lapras. So your cold comes out at the end of Sheer cold. Four times. Hits four times here. Five times. Hit the sub two. And that's it. That's the game. This is not a good matchup, in my opinion. However, I do have some tools I have the perish mode, which is really good, into some of and yeah, so the the and the grim soul Both the polar bear So it's going to be somewhat hard to trap. Clefable actually is really good here because I can redirect beat up I also immune to stat boost with Clefable which is one of the main reasons That being said, I think I want to try and do sheer It's a little bit risky is difficult but I'm hoping that I'm hoping Basically, I can't resist. Yeah, this This is probably okay. So this is gonna be taunt There's taunt. There's hook up. I still had to make this play. I didn't have a better option here I didn't want to lose the mental orb Okay. I'm gonna move my Terra here Reach this There's a couple ways this could backfire. They can also go for taunt, I think they want to beat up, though. That's my guess. At least if this turn goes down, we're I'm in kind of big trouble. Okay? They are rationalizing into might be water on the ape Okay. That's good. That's actually really good because, Yeah. It should be raised up to. You're right. Okay. I got the skill swap off. If they drain Hunter, To be honest, Okay, that's. Oh. Into that fight. Okay. That I didn't need to tear Okay. Take some damage. Oh, yo. Here's beat up Like four stacks already, Okay. This is this is not ideal. However, it's not terrible leave out actually. In two. Wait, I know this cuz that pretty. Oh. Hey. What? Oh, they didn't I don't understand, I knocked my uncle work out. I thought they would follow me for sure. Okay, so I've got a curse in the grim Just a little under a quarter. It's just roughly 25%. Let's go to Lapras. If they get the one turn, sleep here. I could be in pretty major trouble, and I don't have a chance And I didn't get reflected either. Bruh. Protect. Okay, okay, okay. They didn't fully That's that's really good. Under way. Raven to bronze on. Oh my God that was lucky too okay. Because that was one of the main ways is yeah. Go for sub here. Honestly, at this point, I got the sub off. I got no guard on Lapras bumper right now here's another kind of first. I mean I still have fable So I think what I should do here and hold the mouse hole to get rid of it, from like switching out. I want to save bronze on here because I don't want to take damage Or again cuz I need to get parasol up. I don't wanna lose them on. And I want to keep Lapras safe. And right now the most effective Or is actually, the end of now. Hold it. The one. Okay, okay. It's three versus three, Sure. Hold Lapras currently behind us. We'll see if Spirit Break brings the sub. I think I could survive this. The Crimson was actually pretty strong. I don't think either. Yeah, it doesn't. It doesn't survive because I don't know if Lapras will take Curse. The curse that could lurk I only had it to get good However, it's actually like. I mean, it's done. 75% of grim snarls. Epitaph I Fairwater eight I beat an okay, let's Yeah. Make sense. They needed me to make a mistake This is four stacks of rage. This. But I haven't hit it yet. And so I actually was pretty tanky. I think I survived this. Nope. I'm wrong. That's good to know. Not to experience, but good to know. Let's say it was not very effective. I didn't know Okay, so it's Because I still have a Pokemon left, And if it's sinister. I, I don't know. Okay, if it's sinister, then, Sinister Yeah. Okay. Lead to Felicia. I still think that Lapras is probably Enough is enough life. Do this thing. It does have life to match. I got your true life. Two for me. Better. So all I need to do to win is just need it Honestly. All right. I don't think even with the double up Here's Thunder wave. Yep. Into Lapras Comes out. Makes sense. Lapras blocks it. Yeah, I mean support Pokemon Sinister and criminal. They excel at keeping the sweepers I mean like killing their health It only matters when you're doing, And the thing about Lapras is that it's I mean, it's it's, you know, it's doing Unless the healing is weird. Okay. As expected. Okay. Yeah. The way that I lose was like thunder wave So this hitting hypnosis basically because I will never miss. Yeah that I get paralyzed. This is the way that they win this still They are doing the right thing. If they get a lot of paralysis Yeah I mean it's possible Honestly, I'm just grateful because if I had to deal with Crimson this was going on Of course, we are still in trigger room. I do have the massive advantage so I should be. I'm like, Oh no. Is this happening right now? Okay. That's fine. I'm excited. I'm eventually I should get through. Right? Right, bruh? Chat am I going to lose this? Is that what's about to happen here? I need one, I just need one. I literally just need one. I think I need the one turn. Sleep here. One turn to turn left. I just need one. I'm not asking for a miracle. I need one turn. What is going on? Okay. Bronze on bronze Is that four in a row? That's four in a row. I'm stuck in a loop. Get me out, please. Cheer. Cold. Okay. Two turns to sleep. Okay. There we go. All right. All right. Thank you. Lapras. Okay, I need you to remember what's going This took so long. I forgot how to do, I mean, I have the power of strategy, It's not actually that good, right? Because they can taunt me like, mouse is just like I can't lead with color So I could lead goth toe and Lapras long into the mouse hole. Turn one. This would also catch stuff although I don't know how much I would still have to deal and I don't think I can do that right, I can go figure song protect, Right? Pick up. I can kill Mousehole, Let's try the same thing again. And then if it doesn't work, at least get So they could also switch up their lead in a way that favors me, You should. Are counter annihilate that. That's pretty good for me. No, it's not that. Like if I thought I was going this arc Yeah. If I thought it was going down, Yeah, Like, just go for the setup, It could take your turns electrified, actually, All right. Okay. Yeah. So there was no point going for follow me This was my thought process. This is a plus one, and I, I'm that strong. I'm gonna go for trick room. I think I'm not. I'm see my game. Otherwise I'm going to skill swap and reflect here because I don't want to get them Because although this is rage Fest, So yeah, I think I'd actually rather Reflect this reduces Plus one boost is body pressed okay. But that's a physical move Oh they tried to hit me but because of reflect And now I've got seven turns to reflect. I've got a few turns of trick or left No guard. Lapras active? Yep. And there we go. So now Lapras has no guard. Bronze lung has water absorb. So now it comes out okay. Bronze lung survives. The bronze one survives there, They go for another bulk up. Okay, So I need to wonder a Do they protect here. Let's go. Okay. That is the end of our coward on here. Cold comes out or cold on. Go down. Reduce or add on. No guards to your cold. There it is, our coward. On one of the tiniest Pokemon of the game. Lapras at minus Does not matter at all, unfortunately. And actually, that means that now, It was Mousehole. Okay, this is plus two annihilate. Which is scary, but because reflective so much, they don't even go for the, which is the one thing Following me comes out from the mountain. So they're sacrificing their ability, and they're sacrificing their mouse However, And that ability basically says, boosts or drops on the other, So we have this is annihilate this plus two annihilate is actually And I haven't hit this thing with rage So that's plus two and I leave Here's her ears, pally. I don't need to kill everything I have another way of winning. 30. Yes, they can protect both However, following comes out redirecting Clefable will be taking an attack, though. And now in three turns, no matter what This. This is the real reason why I chose Lapras Because there are other one. The thing about Lapras though all four Pokemon with your cold, You really just need to hit the two Pokemon and then finish off with person. There's nothing left they can do. This game is guaranteed over, both my Pokemon in a single hit. It doesn't matter. This two turns out And so just go look. These two feint. There's one turn left. And frankly, I'm here. Here's drame punch into the left Smart play. Fireball. Oh, hurricane. I guess why they're all stronger, Pick two turns. You turns, it turns, turns. How does he always hit the sheer cold? Drain punch plus two. Drain punch. Was that. Was that 2011? Here's hurricane buff hangs on. To your cold comes out. It never misses with this setup. But at the end of annihilate. And now that we have to We can we can try Here, however, we would sacrifice somebody Okay? They didn't forfeit. Okay, so if they go for then I'll survive. Mumbai will come out and then move. Wash your cold will ko the, But before conveyed to Paris long. Okay. Hurricane de Lapras. If it doesn't confuse. Yeah, okay. Okay. Lapras, look for Kalos. This That's just how good this setup is. I'm sorry. I didn't even know the person could just. Here, cool everything. I'm just. I actually feel kind of bad I'm sorry. When it works, it feels really good. When it doesn't work, it feels so bad. I could do perish. However, I could also do this. I think I'm going to try him And if it doesn't work, here's I think that like they could do sneasel Worst case But that's obviously good for on That's okay. All right okay. Yeah I didn't I didn't need to follow me I was going down regardless. It's going to be putting Unfortunately, we probably should've taken more time. I should've taken more time. Shoot, I'm. It's hard because I'm really thinking And so sometimes I like I'm like, so involved in what's going on Okay, this is fine. Here's your flash. When hammer comes out, Nope. I should do something. Okay, okay. So the setup is solid. The real issue is the sneezer. To be honest, I have reflect off. I have three turns to trigger. I currently have no guard on bronze on. Which means the Gnosis can't miss. I think my play is to try and, share with our Paris on, like, command, I didn't go for Grassy Glide, which is okay, which is not ideal, which, falls asleep. For sure. To sleep on the rilla. Boom. Okay. Interesting. Interesting. Okay, okay. Let's the fine. Okay. They get the two turn sleep, Okay. If Neser stays asleep here, Hold this. Use this to sleep, but I could have also sure folded the healer However, yeah, I think I need to think And the thing is, Wake up, turn okay, so I have Lapras behind us. So I was taking a dire claw that foliage p and the opponent has two three Oh dragapult oh okay, I'll shear Now chat. There is something that we should be aware There's something kind of bad That trigger is now currently over, right? Trigger is not currently active And so what what can that Dragapult has the move phantom force this turn and the next turn, And the thing is, if I set him the turn where I would normally hit it This turn being invulnerable off, that trigger up, But I won't be able to. I won't be able to get around It can be really, really dangerous. So why am I then? Oh, okay. So why then you might be wondering, Wolf. Why then would you go for sheer cold This is what you expected. Wait, Isn't that well, it's not really silly. Why would you do that? Because here's a fun fact. Doesn't matter Doesn't matter if it's advantage from the field The least accurate shear gold of all time, the least accurate, Sure. Gold, 30% accurate. Hitting a Pokemon that isn't even present Works here. And the last Pokemon is arena. Yeah, I knew it was coming, a better option because I. If I hit one of the two Like bronze. Like, is nothing else to do. If I had Gyro Ball or something, But I think protect is kind of important For the protect. They fail, they wake up, they protect. Okay. And here, sheer cold never misses. Thanks to no guard at the end of Prim Might be not very effective, Oh, yeah, I guess. Sure. Cold is only 20%. Also bronze like it's hitting. The third one that's not boosted. I think. I think it's only the second one But even still here. Sure. Cold. So long. Bowser. Oh, they will go up. Hang on. Okay. I'd rather have water absorb than poison the touch. They could still win this. It's not impossible. If they get the double protect, Of course, the real problem here is that Right? If they brought Magmar, Well, but I don't know if they realize that, because if they don't realize that The Pokemon. Yeah, leading Magmar would make I was kind of banking on them not doing it but I don't know because the Lapras is so threatening, instead when like yakking in. But actually it's fine Because I can just follow me on the moves. We went down 2 to 4 right away, This is the this is the single worst thing This is the absolute single. Like when I made this lead, I was like, And it was this pop up. I should check to make sure This paper comes out fine. I have, I have leftovers. That's actually doing very, Bye bye bye bye. I'm misunderstood, but it's okay. It's like it's not a, like the. It's still an advantage to me. Every game matters Every turn does matter. So. So much overheat. Potentially in the Gotha hell. I brought Uncle Fable here to take up pressure, what are then And if they want to go for sword doubling I'm not saying that it's not good. However, the thing is that Clefable on the side of King Gambit Gambit is a steel type most King Gambit don't run steel moves. If they run swords, aren't they run counter, leave a dark move sucker And so even though there's this, it doesn't really help it that much take this And actually, I can heal plus an esteemed Okay, this should need to be magmar else Yeah. This is what I didn't realize Good play. It's ghost Magmar. And what that means effectively is that they can get out of the shadow tag I didn't realize they were ghosts. I thought they were something else, but, Yeah, actually, I might have been maybe made cough So cool. People take some damage. Takes a lot of damage. Actually. However, the damage will be healed off by heal plus it's slightly But whatever. And then Counter Cleave comes out doing a good chunk of damage. It's a very powerful move. So now Magmar is able to switch out, Which means I don't And more switches. Yep. I could have gone insane here, It is relevant. Okay, so in that case that I'm glad But I'm. I'm glad that I did not go for a, and then I would have taken a let me go for follow me. So Lapras comes in. I still have my tarot left, That's actually pretty valuable here, It's counter cleave, I'm under half. However, I will be able to heal a bit Now I'm a little over half. Grassy orange ice with Lapras as well, Yeah, it's actually okay, so. Okay, King devil is one of the stronger This also means that Incineroar Okay, Needler, what are you doing here? Speedy? Like, I could have. I could have what I could have to goth and hang on for Terra Ghost here. However, I think this was fine as well. They got into the tarot goes to be honest. Okay, I could have won the game this time, now both Pokemon roam minus one in this position, they could just switch However, Gambit, I don't need to worry about I can just Terra, Ghost and Parasol If they stay in with both Pokemon, I got the tail, They stayed on with both. That's, not necessarily minus, I didn't actually, I've been lazy about that. Oh, doesn't matter now. I think it must be double instant hammer and get, like, Then they'd it'd be in trouble. But if they go for close combat this turn, I think that the game is all the way over. Okay. It goes tear up this close Yeah. Let's, I mean, nice job not attacking you to the Ghost tarot, Unguarded on this turn or Lapras. Oh, I don't get the credit. Crit would. Okay. Oh, that's a really authentic boom. I could have got them on here if I wanted. Yeah, okay, cool. Fables in now on unaware which means both these Pokemon which means the claim was almost certainly I'm going out of that path is able It covered, yeah, it covers like some of the ways in which I could Hammer is fine. Two turns left and person. So here my thought process is that even What I was worried What this allows me to do is if I'd gone for fake to tell them oh, what are they dire closely right And I would probably lose, like go for close combat and the incidence is I do survive, which is very nice. And he's lower on her. Sorry. It's another hangs on, you know, but she'll pulse and get a ton I still have a healthy incineroar here, And even if that the crit, still have Lapras available which I think I should win. By the way, so that's something worth noting. Even if Lapras goes down, I've played this brought Magmar, they're just there's like, Here's close combat into the ghost type. Doesn't work on Lapras. They didn't really have a better move Here's Lapras does some damage, but not enough. Here's heal pulse, shrugging off all Lapras goes back almost a full HP That's the end of Sneasel for and also the end of Rilla boom. And unfortunately, it's But god, that was more than done to job on the field for multiple multiple turns. I was able to keep them locked in there It cleared the way over. He comes out because they're faster than Maybe if everyone crit, they can win. Not too much trapped Oh boy. Here cold comes out and misses. Restoring up luck for later That's why I went for sheer cold here because I was like, yeah, or he comes out. Yeah, I had a feeling and thinking solo And they were forced to ghost type. They said, you are a phenomenon. It's very nice. I feel like a villain Yeah, yeah. Gigi's. Gigi's all righty. I don't think I can do that. Like, I actually don't think This is so bad that I don't even know because I genuinely don't I could try that. Also, I don't think Let's just yolo it. Maybe don't mess up Copium. Yeah, If they lead properly, Yeah. The more switches. Okay. And. Oh, no, that's game over. DJ, I was. Oh, oh hang on wait. No no no no no no I didn't lose Oh yeah I haven't lost yet okay. Okay. Think we'll think with your brain. Use your brain for thinking buttons. It's It's so doomed. There's no good moves. All the moves are bad. Well, dito. Oh! Whoa oh, Zubair, I shouldn't have tried. Jarvis, I made a mistake. All. Please shut up! All. Please shut up! All the nasty plotting. There's no reason for them to shadow ball All right, give me that. Thank you. Okay. The log log. I can't do anything now. You completely and utterly bugged me. How could you do this to me? I thought we were friends. Not going to work. Good evening. Okay. I got the intimidate down, so. I mean, the good news is, The bad news Okay. Here's protect. Hey, wave curse is blocked. I need them to make it rain. Here. Okay? I at least got one drop, which is good. Oh, Chad, what have I done? I'm a pink pony girl, Oh, mama. Oh, Lord, help someone else. A in a perfect world, Here. They protect all dango. I have a shot they didn't protect. Which makes sense, because They're the nasty plotters that make up They called the no attack from the inside. Okay, they're out of the gourd. You know what? I'm just gonna. I think they're going to protect. But I think that Wait, what does that mean? If I sometimes. Okay, okay. Question is, Does a kale Lapras on a single hit? I could have stumped here. I kind of overthought, Hey! Oh, I got my setup going. The problem is that Okay. Down to plus two. It could be timid, actually. Returns to sleep, I think. Yeah. Because even if I need another trick room Right. Even if they're timid, just brawn It has a chance to survive. Basically. I almost wonder I can try to trick him up his turn. If I get this Because I could go for. They got no gold. Ingo got. It's. The desert wakes Okay. That's fine. It's actually best case scenario here. Or I think. Is there a chance in in in the world How many reflect do I have left? Those as fast as the Lapras, But if it's Gilmore, I'm screwed. Really? Yeah, really. Nice job. Yeah. That's okay. Possible. Cara. Okay. The faster you know what? I should have The. Truthfully, There's the into my Lapras, a sub, and I kind of cheer cold the Gilmore, I thought it was. I didn't like they left. They lost the thing on the field that I was like, And that's going, like, just almost Oh, I do have levitate on, bronze on Hang on, hang on, hang on. Still possible kill Gil Dango. It's the Palmer However, Polmont I do. Okay, I think. I missed all my tarot. Left that. What's the other thing? If I had either Palmer like by trusting I think that was the main issue because I had I can go for Ghost Tara You know? They have such an overwhelming advantage that there's no need for them It's kind of win. Like they can just win the game Doing this with the intimidate before I'd one more time to reflect and yeah, the toxic spikes. I'm assuming this is figured into insane. Oh, I could have one that's crazy at wild. Okay, how much is minus I one lap risk. You okay? Chat. There is one world but it is extraordinarily unlikely. And I know it sounds crazy, that there is a world And the win condition is which is a one and three, and I think I could Maybe if I get the one and three chance, I like feel like So I think this you can Unfortunately if they double this slot, if they double the slot, if this is Sludge bomb into Lapras, is there a chance is it possible? Oh, almost. Which is? Oh, so they can reset the thing. No. This connects. No way. Absolutely no way. We could still lose this, actually, Gilmore goes down in a single hit Hold on, hold If I connect hypnosis, I should win I think we have a 60% chance of winning. I'm pretty sure that if I. If I hit how many? There's three. If I hit one. Hypnosis. No way, no way. Lapras now connects to your code. Lapras is the second fastest Pokemon here. Goes down to the sash. I cannot believe this! And dosa stays asleep. I can't revive anything. Because it's a sleep. It can't use fake out because it's asleep. It doesn't have to protect somehow. Against all odds, I think. I think Lapras is going to take home For those who does not have the moves to here cold comes out. That's the end of it. That was the only Pokemon Dozo three minutes left until a battle when we're gonna win on timer I. We actually feel like we're on a timer. Here's your gold nose. This comes out. Doesn't Lapras hits another sheer cold. Lapras. It lands five here. Cold. The game for Pokemon. Oh man. And somehow we win. Game one. Okay, we're probably still going to lose the set But that is, that is certainly one Oh my goodness. I cannot believe we won chat I know, I don't know what to do. Yeah. I'll just I'm just going to play If they play optimally I think so, I think I just and I'm gonna take a little bit more time Ideally, I'm sure I'll say that. And then just mash button immediately. Interesting. Golden Google more. Okay. I have an early Anxious and Bronzino bronze bronze gong. Why even even if they if they do anything with golden go I think I lose regardless I died a meteor beam even with the assault So I need to do over nasty plot. Basically, here's meteor beam The thing is, They also could go for Shadow on Kill it wouldn't even really matter that I got You're being a crit. I lose if the make it rain, Oh, no. Yeah. That's bad. I should survive this. Hang on. Yeah. Okay, so I killed dango, which is good, which is really bad. Like, there's no way There's Oh, wait, Do I do I? Now now you know what? If I can be honest, give me a second. I don't actually need. I need no gain on that. I can win this, I can win this, I can win the second one, Like I'm the second worst means no Dozo It's not over. Even though I lost a bunch of health would be really, good here. Wrong one. Okay, okay. I connect it doesn't really matter But it's better than nothing. I might just have to hit a roshi or cold. Actually, It does half. Which is good, They made a read. Oh, my God, they made a read. Hold on. Oh, Wait, Claymore can't damage bronze on. Hold on, hold on, hold on. Don't give a punch again. Okay. No no no no no I told you to do it. No! Guard bro. Okay. Oh. Oh, my God, that was just took girl left. Oh, wait, that's not good. No. Guard hypnosis. Little more to sleep The thing So it has to lock into a move. And if it locks into muddy water, And with Curse on Gomorrah. This is actually ridiculous. But curse on Gomorrah, And then best. Better sleep talk. Oh, they messed up big time. Oh my God, they messed up Omega time. This thing is now completely, I'm gonna win. But more as only moves are ground moves, poison moves and rock moves, Which means bronze on hard. This is choice. Scarf. Tons of gear. It has to keep cutting sleep. Talk. Gomorrah stays asleep here. The curse is still active. Which comes out, doesn't connect. Doesn't need to though. Another kind of curse. It's adding up. Oh, it's adding up real fast wakes up and goes for spiky shield blocks, But how does it work if I miss take out into the Gomorrah, Sorry, that's the end of Incineroar. It's interactions of out, which is bad. However, bronze looking There's no like, threat anymore. Seems comes out. Doesn't matter. Yeah, I understand the sleep talk. They felt like they had to go to sleep. Probably because like like if I the obvious moves to hypnosis, But yeah, I mean there's curse again. Curse continuing I think one more is going to take go into Bronze song, nine HP left. I think at this point it's locked up. I know I'm like, oh, But I think with the curse I think it's actually locked up that's going to continue ticking down And bronze on hard walls, Gomorrah, Here's a meteor beam. Then you did my bronze to protect this. Turns like a coward. Next turn. Have a chance. Even though they were never being lappers But let's see here. Turn goes up there plus two. Now here's cursed. Do they survive? Actually, That's the end of Gomorrah. Sorry. Gomorrah. Go, Go! Look! Chaos! Gomorrah! Shockingly. Yeah. GG's. Oh my God, how did we win that? How on earth did we win that? That is the winning. I could just roar. Sheer cold stuff. Honestly, I need to think about the other mode Like what would need to happen for it The thing for this mode, This doesn't work versus However, And frankly, that's good enough for me. But I don't want to see this goal. Dango flipper okay, that's not right. That's not great. If you assume that I'm going to miss I'm actually faster than the rest of them. Interestingly enough, I think I'm wrong. That way And that's what comes out. Oh, I can actually They protect you. That's what I expected. And actually here's the here's the reason Because the abilities activate What I learned is that interior is going to move before and then we're looking at the opportunity In this case it wants to go for in order to allow good language However, as you can see from grassy before grassy surge and a bit from There. I know that my interior is faster and so it has a choice here I can stay in. Yes, you can go for make it rain, It's quite tanky and if it switches out then it loses But some something But then polygraphs stuck on the field What they would like to do is make it so that they can protect the dango They could even Shadow Ball However, which means they don't have the opportunity to go for a, U-turn Here's protect coming out. They don't go There should be make it rain. Here's make it rain. We're going to take a lot of damage on but we don't need But we need to win this game is on in or. Sorry, we don't need to ruin this game, Realistically So I open up the Paris win condition. So I haven't seen a lot of damage here, but it's also not terrible. Lots and lots of damage and they're gonna go for a U-turn here. I could have gone for taro but I didn't think it was worth it The problem is that now but they actually make And you turn it to Sofitel. Instead of going for something like. Yeah, I don't know, something else. Like like you turn into Incineroar, So here's Palapa Because it's a clipper. Buffer football comes in. Here's the terra. This is an offensive terra, Not any defense here. Unfortunate. They're going for grass going after golf a So I should have like a capella here. In hindsight like weather ball as well. Look at a hurricane I'm a little surprised they went for that. This is going kind of bad. Oh do they double the slot okay. If it all goes down. Not ideal. Not ideal at all okay. So now we're if I do take you to the part I got a little bit overambitious Lapras goes Terra. I'm going to end up If is health back up on insane. How much? Just throw chop due to flipper. I need to do roughly 50. This is like. Unfortunately, Olivia flinches. But when you do turns into instant, it's The question is, Newsletter with grass. You see the setup options. That's not good okay, that might actually Okay, that's kind of bad, actually. Although now I could perish this thing. Dire claw, close combat, forge dance. There's no more grass. Once the rain ends. There's a lot going on here. CC into Lapras, I die. What? Oh, okay. I didn't think I was going to die Okay, that's shocking to me. That's really, really surprising. Hurricane This is going to be insane. Oh, no. Oh, please. Please, please, Please don't hurt yourself. Please. Got it, all of you. If you attack here, I think we can win. Got it all. You psychic? Okay, okay, Hey, All right, so how many turns of all at this point? There can't be that many rain There can't be more than after two. I probably am still in too much trouble. Right now. All I need in order to win this. All I need in order to win is to get rid I think either works. Oh, the confusion makes things so hard. Okay, mine is one really boom and palapa. Who's broken? Bruh? Two turns left. That's too many. Okay, all this confusion is making things There's the flinch. Just would hammer into. Oh, yeah. 116. That's minus one. What? That's minus one. Hey, what? There's so much damage. Okay, well that sucks. A lot for anyone curious, Right? I need them to go for weather. Well, this turn, like weather ball Grass. Terra. If they go for hurricane, it's Yeah, okay. They weather ball here Maybe I don't even. That's like kind of I mean, Yeah I didn't do enough. I need one more. That the thing that kills me here is the God the strong. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I was always faster. Okay, well, that didn't go very well. It's a shame pretty well, but I messed up my turn. Like, I got the psychic turns wrong. Like I psychic the ones that stayed in, and then I psychic to the flipper as it's, That was not what I. Yeah, I thought about this before the first match and then didn't So, I mean, this is bad. Obviously. I should probably go. Dang, I'm going to steal this. My guess it's not most likely. Yeah. Let's still on the gold angle. This means that I can't hit it which sucks. Basically, I think feel like be in the game is actually not It's not like good. Yeah, this thing is a lot to just fire off I think it just ends in stuff. Let's see. Sheer cold baby. Oh, that's not good. That's not good at all. Okay. It's okay. It's so specific. Honestly, Maybe because down. Yep. I could still win this And then. And then, like, it's It's just pretty. It's looking pretty doomed, truthfully. But it is still theoretically possible. Like, I could do it. It's like it's. I wouldn't I I'll never win at this point. But if I do hit a sheer cold, This is a position Probably, if they were looking for that. Pretty decent. But if they just predict Okay. Yeah. Nice play for him to Lapras. All right. That does a lot of damage. Oh no. Okay. All right. That's a 30% chance as well. Same odds of, hurricane of, Okay, I got the sub cat. Be honest with me. Do y'all think lotteries is hitting sheer All right, Lapras, you're confused, You're still got some fighting spirit I hope how it was make it rain. It made myself quite weak. Gorilla boom! All righty, Lapras. Nice job. Substitute Okay, if you connect to sheer cold, there's a small chance we could win this. Actually, if I can cure cold, I can do it. Weather Means no confusion that I have to deal To heal myself. Back up. Heal. Pull. Lapras restores I've used two. I think my odds of hitting Hitting this one through Let's see if we even get the attack off. No, I miss okay, fine fine, fine. It's okay. It's actually okay. It's not good, but it is okay. Because here's the thing. With all my floundering around, I've stolen the rain. So as long as they don't go for weather, Which they really shouldn't do. This is the last Hang on. It didn't even go for a boost here. There's no way they went for, He doubled gone. Hang on. The rain is now over. Chat. The rain is over with. Is it? Is it possible I could do this? Oh, please, Miss Hurricane, please Sofitel, you're so good. Please, Miss Hurricane, please, please Okay. We are actually in this. I was fine regardless. Okay? I'm actually in this game. No joke. I am legitimately in this game. It is possible for me to win somehow. Oh wait, these are going to come in. I'm going to lose immediately, aren't I? The psychic? Okay. The damage. Oh, no. I fought so hard. I fought so hard I need them to close combat instant here. And then their last one is really boom. And then instant wins. That's the And the goal survives Okay. Hang on. If God survives hurricane. Got that? Help, please. If you live the hurricane, People, you're so specially bulky. Oh, man, I'm so close. Miss miss miss miss miss. Oh, no no no no no no please please please look at this. If the last Pokemon is real, boom! It's okay. If it's holy wrath, I lose for sure. No. No chance. Warning with Poliwrath, it's It's real. Boom! You. There. Minus one. Yeah. I could have gone for fake up. Was a really good, Okay, that's a crit. That thing is so strong. What on earth? What are they feeding this thing, right, I think Unfortunately, I think I throw up here infinite recoil. Because in this situation. It depends on how much damage. It depends. It depends on if hurricane connects. If it misses I'm in really good shape. If it connects to depends on Here's hurricane doesn't miss And then we're still alive because we'll solve this, Roach up close her. So now it's a one against Am I going to kill this real boom Incineroar out, you are the stronger We're going to game three. We are going to game three. I don't know how we won that. Actually, that was a crazy comeback However, reloading or yeah, chat. We're not out of this chat. We are certainly not out of this one. We are, we are, we are. This is not the worst case scenario. Lead. There's like no damage on the team. Oh, you'll be seeing some damage. That fake out break is super important. You take on the bronze This looks like a losing trade. It's kind of fine. The problem is that the really one's Oh, Kara, Okay. That's fine. It's not good. It depends who they're targeting. If they're just killing Incineroar, But if they're going after bronze, I'm. That's a problem. I think whether ball To bronze I mean, it hasn't turned his head yet. Oh and insane. They just took the kill and then are not yet Hammer, please. I'm really surprised Another lost the water boost would hammer. Okay, okay okay okay okay, okay. Good. Good. Hammer. Well, taking a lot of damage. Too strong. Okay. Kraken goes up. Okay, cool. So minus one. Really? Boom. And they've used their terror and they've Let's go into alert here Remain. They'll swap okay. He turns to reflect. This is helpful versus sneasel and boom. I assume he has those in the back because You turn okay, not ideal, If they have a mungus it's just doomed. Show me what angle. I guess you learned either one. Either Here it's pulling. Okay, in a perfect world like hey, this might be a perfect world. Killer doesn't survive this. Yeah. You were so goaded. Honestly, you're so goaded. Okay, cool. So now what? I need to get out of this cool dango Right. Protect from pellet. Okay, back from both. Okay, so sub hypnosis, one of the better. Okay. Skills. What? Now? We have. We're down two against four, but We silver tarot available? They're in some decent trouble. They don't have easy switch. They normally they don't have a clear A clear way of stopping, So we've sacrificed half of our team. The Lerk and Incineroar both went down in exchange, Set up reflect Like, passed it to, Lapras. And so with these two remaining turns We need to get as many kills Ideally two. And if Bronson can lead to hypnosis, So dingo switches. This is expected. That means pellet bursting is in. However, they might not remember that company is lower I agree is the least impactful Pokemon Here's the grassy seed going to activate. Burton's use Here's hypnosis. Connecting is a pretty big deal. Thing is, your cold comes out. Okay, one turn of trigger them left. If they go into the room, Well, then go comes in. Okay, so, I mean, I could sub here right? Hey, they stay in school, dingo. What that means is that they no longer because their labor doesn't have rain. So it needs to use for go for hurricane. Oh, wait, hurricane hits All righty, Mr. Dimension. Twisted twisted dimensions Rilla. Boom! What's the play like? This is the crucial turn. If this turn goes well, if we see Fakeout. Oh, wait. I could have perished. Oh, yeah. Perished wins. What am I doing? I didn't need it all this year. Cold. It's fine. Like if I get an attack off this turn, Take out. Okay, now the only lose condition is Wake up. Doesn't get it. That's it. No way to lose anymore. Well, okay. Technically there's still way to lose, Cold comes out, okay. As long as it don't hurricane bronze on Then they would need to wake up If they hurricane bronze on connect. Get the get the confusion That's the way Okay that's it again. Oh stream just put down the back. Insult to injury And we didn't even hit any super We hit one on her which was helpful Wow unbelievable win I cannot That is that is ridiculous. That is that honestly That is crazy. How do we win that? That looks so bad. So same month as earlier. The King Gambit is safety I don't think the other one was coaching which means that whereas the other one this one can actually just blast Oh, it's not with the differences. It's a really hard matchup. I don't think this is going to work, And these are dragapult. Okay, so okay, so these are Dragon 40. Here's the Terra. This is most likely Ghost Terra So you can't redirect coaching which is But I know right in this instance, this instant, in this instance, Follow me over Phantom Forest. That's all right. Let's combat. Okay. He got poisoned. Yeah. So Dragapult is faster than this needle. Single guy. There is the sash. Right? So I got to watch out for that. Yep. Okay. That's bad. Okay. Animal spirit. Okay. Pretty bad. Yeah, that's pretty bad. Unfortunately. Yeah. This is this is a problem for me. The end of my thing here. Is there a way to do this? Yeah. This is a position that just basically Oh, he let me do it. Okay. Oh, wait. But now I don't have. I was just gonna overheat me. Okay. Hit dynamic hundred is really good. Okay. Hey, to go lurk, that's fine. But honestly, fine. Bronze. Like, Here he goes for another Phantom four. Okay, what should I do here? They're going for Follow me, Bernard hurt her. Hurt? Nope. Damn, damn. Okay, he does reflect. I'm assuming I'm pretty sure bronze level tank this Oh, and took a look. Okay, okay, so how can I still win this? That's the question So I'm just going to keep following I'm going to go for it. I think that the win condition here one third of the time. It's like hitting us sheer cold Come on. Go. Look. Your parting gift to the world. Please hurt yourself a confusion. Magmar. Come on, hurt her. Don't hurt. It's eight. Okay, well, that's I do kill Magmar here because even though Yeah, it was hard. Magmar has no guard. So now Magmar is the Pokemon who, Now Magmar is a Pokemon who, But yeah, the Terra Ghost here is I needed one of them to not hit. I think. Yeah, there's in the Phantom Forest. This is very difficult because I don't think that my bronze Okay, this Really? If the last one is specifically prima then it becomes like actually, in theory, Yeah, it doesn't happen, right? And it wasn't good work. I'm seeing too much damage. Yeah. Vital spirit. Follow me. Unfortunately, it's technically not over yet. Like, I know it sounds silly, but like, So if the last Pokemon is like it would basically need to be really Marina because I don't think Well enough and I don't get poisoned. This is my third year cold, right? My second one, I got one, third one I got one. I don't know. I don't want to, like, give anybody false hope, But at the last moment, Right. If it's primary, not even for me. It does a lot of damage though, Let's condemn it. Oh, that sucks. Sucks. Okay. Yeah. Reflector left. If it were either other mod, I think I could have done with perish. I could have done perish. No, no, no, Probably. Look at a little. That does. Come on. Nobody's. Oh boy. That's going to make this impossible. That's okay I actually the funny thing is, and they didn't get the poison touch, I'm going to try this. I've. This is not. This is a this is a mode Emily. Okay. Intimidate in the needle. Okay. No. Tarot. Fine. Oh, this one should be a U-turn. Actually, which would be kind of bad. No. Hey. You turn. That's fine. That does a lot of damage. Okay, so my tarot was bad. Actually, my tarot was quite unfortunate. That's my guess. At least. Yep, here comes Magmar. Okay, that's fine. Mowing my mask doesn't actually Right on me. That's fine. No, protect is good. I need to get the switch out here. Okay. Switch. And now I get to go in to go off at all. And what that means is I have Sneasel I wanted to bring Lapras on this term, Trouble I think. Yep. Yeah, I would have brought it in for And right got the toll in the back. The new mode I'm playing it like an actual this is stellar Sneasel it's not ghost. Does it protect us? We need to watch out for that. Oh, because I'm from a long line, I suppose. You hit play? Kind of got up for the magmar Off fine, but right. I could have gone if they got heal here. But I wanted to get the parish up Fine. Okay. Putting the damage on Magmar is nice Terra. But a good drop. It's actually a really good drop. You see? Breath. All right. Well, that's. Honestly, that just that actually, I actually can't believe that. I actually can't believe that. So sad. I was honestly doing pretty well because I had this thing at minus But yeah, if that crits Probably. That is unfortunate. It's quite unfortunate. Yes, yes. Okay. That's you know, what's funny is That's the dumb thing here. I actually did legitimately still have a way to win Yeah, like I had. Yeah. Nothing I can do about that. I mean, there's nothing Go Terra ghost and. Yeah, something, If that happened. Oh that sucks. Yeah, they needed both crits. I was still. Oh okay. Yeah. It's okay. It was a hard matchup Yeah I think I missed that one. Like I assume their last Which means that if you like, all you had And I can kill all the Pokemon left. And they would have been forced to go So it was actually like Like it was actually somehow okay. Up until yeah, like this turn, So when they get double crits, like, I feel like it's Yeah, yeah. But I think that, like, The strategy was really cool Yeah, like if, if I'd had like neutral luck, Now. You miss? Nope. Reminds. Yeah. That's crazy. Okay. That's okay. We still made top cut. Still, Still, And I think we learned more about beating Yeah, because they are forced to Which is the important thing. Yeah, yeah. I mean, actually I had it I had it until the overheat credit. Yeah. It was pretty close, like or like it wasn't close, but like, Geez. Yeah. There's two things I could try here, Parrish, which seems pretty strong here. Right? First. Seems pretty strong here because I only have one ghost type which makes it a little bit Okay, stuff. I think I'm going to try stuff because I think it's harder and I think it's easier to like lose Like I think if you weren't ready for it, The thing is that I kind of want clefable, is actually pretty valuable here especially, and watch out over murkrow But I might just have to. I think as long as I'm willing to take Mousehole. Vascular lesion in the leaves. Okay. That's okay. I'm glad to get the intimidate down And this is Terra fairy mouse hold, Anything else comes in. Nice play, nice play, nice place. It's probably flip turn Right. Okay. I died fall. Wait, what? It's minus one. Okay. I don't know any of my calcs. Apparently. Okay, that's not good at all. That's really bad, actually. Losing Having figure pressure I switch, okay, There's mouse hole. No that's bad. Yeah, that's a nice play. Okay. This is bad. I got hit hypnosis on mice. Mice, haste. I have a turn to reflect, which is good. I don't love using my Terra here. However, I think it's okay. Maybe I didn't even need to use it. No, I definitely need to use it because Here's the tarot. This is gonna be fairy. Yeah. Nice play. So, actually, I need I'm Realistically, unless they go Okay. They're clean. Okay. If I hit him. No, this. I'm okay if I hit hypnosis. It's actually all right. I hit. Okay. So now we're back in this. I think you're actually truly, actually back in this. They do big damage as wood hammer. Zero turns asleep at presence skill swap. Okay, And what that means Unfortunately. Which is. Okay. I hope they go for Wood I hope this close it Okay? We're in okay shape. Okay, we are down for two. However, it's not as bad as it looks. Trust me. The first one of sleep on the mice. I've used my Tara. They've used their Tara cuz I could, For real on this turn. Assuming that they stay asleep and don't get the count and coming in. Okay, this is sturdy, which is a problem stays. Sleep okay? That's good Gnosis. I know all for the mods now, To just sleep on the mice to sleep on the error code can actually be kind of bad. Okay, Follow me, follow me, follow me, Confusion. Oh, okay. That's not ideal. Lapras. 30% of the time That would be really, really cool. Friend, if I can get this, you're cold now, I think if this connects, it's only 30%. Yeah, so it's not super likely. But the trick room. Let's see if it's protector of it's. Follow me. Hurt me. Just follow me. Okay. Cool. Love. Guaranteed. Hypnosis. Connect. And the reason I've done it this way Right. I think actually, We probably, Find that it also doesn't connect. We would love our code. To stay asleep Okay, that's two turns to sleep Okay. I'm sad. My heart starting to beat. Okay, but now the mouse is guaranteed to sleep It is absolutely guaranteed to stay asleep into Lapras and sheer cold and guaranteed, Okay, it's guaranteed sleep. So the end of the mice. Oh, you know what I can do here? Actually, I have no guard. Please stay asleep. Please stay asleep. Please stay asleep. Okay. Hold on. Guaranteed. Connect. We finally got it going. I'm also running out to reflect turns, Yes that's actually. Oh mega massive. I think I have two turns This is actually Becomes a real a boom. So they can break the sub They want. I might need to hit a naked hypnosis here in order to win this Okay, yeah, which is valuable for me That's a big, big, big, Here's a lecture shot. Yep. This should be enough to protect. Okay, so currently So I've taken away sturdy here it is guaranteed to sleep this turn. And now I can kill them Now they have two stacks of last respects Is guaranteed to sleep for this turn. It's still not over. Brunswick has sturdy yours up. Show me last respects or grassy glide. And a lot of the rock aggressive out here And to bronze on. No no no no sturdy okay I have sturdy. Don't wake up. That's. I can't believe it. Oh, I'm still alive. I'm still alive. Hang on. We're not. It's not over yet. Last respects We don't have a safe way to win it There's a grassy glide is play. Why is this, so small? Fine. Hold me back. Legion in the basket. Legion. How many turns are left of grassy terrain? How many turns are left to grassy terrain? Because, grassy glide. There's no way. Three minutes left The forfeit it. Okay, Gigi. Okay. That was not easy at all, I mean, Oh. That's interesting. Okay, it's a terror type on this thing. Is terror water? Okay. I mean, dance to the targeting here. This is pretty scary. You should just terror rest. Yeah, that was my bad. It's okay. As long as survive. Yeah, I just survived three. Okay, this switch murkrow. I call it on. Okay. Makes sense. We borrowing water, absorb Now sub up for Lapras. This is pretty scary. The skeleton wave crash comes out I'll be borrowing some of that health. See, we would love to see bastion Ideally. Give me a switch. Unfortunate. Maybe their wave crashing Into Lapras. Here. I mean, I can get him. A Terra is good, a ton of damage and cough it all here. I just lose, like, actually lose. Not even like, oh, haha. Here's a lecturer shot. Really, this isn't a Lapras, it's in the bronze on It's in trouble that I can't even tell Oh no, not there. That's going to do a lot. I should survive, but okay. This is not good at all, okay? At least all the damage is going to turn, I'm going to get rid of our collision I mean, I should assuming that this works. Okay, that's really bad, actually, unless I connect, in which case But I have a bad feeling. The connections, Oh, if I'd done the move I wanted But yeah, having a water type off at all If that wasn't obvious, unless I hit sheer cold, Yeah, but trust closing there. I think I put myself into the worst spot That's fine. I mean, it's not fine. I'm playing to lose now, but, Yeah, it's It's the one turn So lost in the rain. This is bad. I think with this, But I'm not, like, so positive about it. Okay, there's electric shot. Yeah, they're pretty good, honestly. Playing well. Yeah, I think by dry, I think I just really Oh, God. Okay. Rain is over. I mean, I've made it through the air. But the price was not worth it, right? Because also, this is the turn. The trigger means if I still trigger him I think. Yeah, I think this is not happening. You did too much damage. Yeah. It's place. Yeah. Very nice play. I got rid of the intimidate Yeah, yeah, it was active. So it's 3 to 3, for two water types, it's Yeah, I actually genuinely I go into Lapras. It's not even winnable. Actually. It's actually not winnable. I would need a sheer cold connected. A pretty crucial time. Like next turn. Basically. Basically, I'm thinking I think I'll right But this move is so strong. Should we pick out oh or what. Here to survive. Yeah. Basically my thought process But if I were able to take out. Sure cold the relevant Okay. If if they last respects here Okay. And take it out and then the faints and then somehow against all odds here cold connects. Here cold connects. If it is connected, Yeah, It's not accurate enough, right? Yeah. I had two shots of it. Right. Two sure. Cold. So I wasn't actually that bad of, gamble. I don't know, I live at this point. I not have lovers, bookie or not, this is really difficult. They have a good team, and I don't really I didn't even bother with Mouse Hole this game, which I'm like, What's it? What would I have done What would they even have done One strategy there. Hadn't really been work on faster than me on. We get one big attack off. I think I should just gone for the terror I don't think they're gone. Let me U-turn them. Yeah. I should just rip the Terra ghost here. What the. Aimed at insane. That's crazy, that's insane. Okay. That's ridiculous. Okay, that's not good. At all. That's really bad. I should have used the terror. Now I couldn't like I. You ran out of time I think I had the tools, They could still make a mistake here. My opinion. This is not guaranteed over yet. Other being forced to trust less here This is not over. But the parish up on your count This time I can push in the gothic. Bad, bad. You shouldn't let this market either. Not so bad. Honestly, it's actually not so bad. Oh, no. Okay. That's bad at the Legion. Yeah, the problem is I can't get rid of the basket And I've already perished here. Yeah, they did so much damage because they knew that it was crucial Yeah. Winning the game eventually. Let's see what they lock into here. It's a couple options. I really feel like They kill it. I think I'm in big trouble. Here's a fake out turn to perish with crushing to go off. Okay. Survive narrowly. Very, very narrowly. Off survives. And some. Still, I think a turn of healing off two and everything. Okay, I just need one sheer cold connect. Okay. This state in this turn, That means that next round There's Lapras. Wave! Crash! Water! Absorb. If I can pull out a lot. Okay, there are basket regions So the question is, cold understanding that hitting Do I need to hit a circle to win It's like basically the question, right? Because one thing I could do They haven't seen it So the question is, what do I do here? I can go for sub or I can go for perished If I hit the sheer cold, Well, for prob probable If I sub I think I share cold. I think I have to hit one to win this first collision. It is murkrow. Okay, I think that's somewhat decent because murkrow actually isn't that good if I hit this year cold, I have a 30% chance to win to win Should me Lapras. There's no no guard. Show us nothing. Nope. We need to hit one at some point. Or alternatively, what we could do is Like, I could have performed this turn to get the counter and murkrow, like I think I need to do something I need to hit them on with some move. Grass is gone. This vascular lesion. Means that intimidate will actually stick, Yeah, there's more power going out. This will give me powered up blasts, I think it's also we can force collisions Hey, I actually got a predict, right? Once in my life. Okay, so now. Now the collision is unaware, and the cool Wait, hang on a second. Can adaptability clefable Problem is the grassy terrain right? If I can just get them If I just had more health on Ensign, Okay there. Minus one on both kill tables, no longer Boss respects into you know I know to 27. I do take one more of those. Oh I have follow me available in switch still fixing to be able to survive okay them adaptability a lot of damage. I think they're going to U-turn here, because I think it gives me because I do want to throw chop. Basically, I thought that throw chop would mean that And even if they U-turn here, Hold on, hold Flare Blitz would pick up the Ko here. Okay, hold on a second. Is adaptability available? Bringing this one home Really really bad. However, they only have one Pokemon Perish. Song. Follow me. I lose the fable. I'm pretty sure that I'll go down The best of my adaptability online. I'm almost positive. Yeah, this is a 100 base power move. There's no way I survive it. Almost one shot. It depends on how low my attack ideas. But glass respects It has carried us through this game. Its last attack on me. Goes to, happens, I'm not that worried about it, my dear. Does depend quite a bit as much. This Lapras is based attack. What are they doing for the damage? Okay, it comes down to what attack I'd be like if it has That's Three three, three. How much health do I have left? Perfect. Ivy goth. It takes maximum 68 damage from this move. What is my attacks? That this is not perfect, Ivy. However, I was wrong. Maximum damage was 60, which means even on a critical hit, We protect both. There's no use going to out here. Murkrow doesn't have any moves that can affect the speed Here. I'll play. It comes out. The odds of me surviving Only one of the critical hits chaos. I have a 15 out of 16 times And they spell disaster just goes down. The question is, and the timer I could lose on timer. Merkel goes for foul play. How much does this do? Got it. All survives. Your pulse fails. That's fine. Skip One turn of murkrow, one But will we have enough time Runs out of time. There's only one turn left. I protect. This is it. If we can get this turn off, I should win. But if time runs out, I only have one. They'll be the winner. A timer runs out two minutes Before fit. Oh, I don't know. I do not know how we won that stuff. Time. I guess it's gone. All this then. What's all this then? What's all this? Then? What's the what's wait. What's up? What's all that be? What is all? What's all this then? Okay, okay, well, It's like the counter, But I didn't do the sheer cold That's the main forever. Duh. They go good. Big damage. That's huge. I sounded like the like, Big damage. That's huge. There's ways that this could go badly, but I don't want it to go badly, My pro analysis I expect this to be, no, Oh, that's not good. It's an aurora. Oh. That's bad. They read it. It's doomed. I got the parasol up. That's good. Copium. Dang! That's crazy. I guess it was kind of off. Okay, I know it sounds silly, My opponent was like. I kind of forgot they were good. You know? And. All right, I'll give it a sub. Yeah, I take that much damage. It's pretty bad with goth. Okay. Dragon pulse comes out. That's good. Let's play. Thankfully, So I should be able to survive this Yeah. Getting rid of And getting rid of all the other Pokemon I think this might be tough for Yeah, okay. Teleport comes out. This is bad. Okay. Two here, two here. I don't think it's able to flash Well, do you? Sorry, Claymore. I put this one pretty bad. And then I got kind of like I lost myself. The source turn two. Which is bad because, like, Correct. You know, and so having it be like, It's broken. One turn left here, it actually is still possible to win. It just is going to require some actually it's, unless I misplay huge and double Lapras Oh, an interesting. There's no way they'd go for a Lapras Yeah. There's no way Yeah, all the while. You know, the grass type. So I don't know why I do that in the Yeah, I didn't, I didn't respect It is kind of like Yeah, I can still win this. I just need to hit many sheer colds. Many, many, many sheer colds. Get me specific. I needed to. Hitting one would be a start though. Honestly, I haven't even tried it, have they? I think I was covering for the tarot and haven't even gone for it. It goes Staropoli right? Yeah, this is going to be hard regardless. Actually. It didn't matter what I did here to crit should live a hurricane, but not by much. Flinch okay, show me your cold. Oh, that's my bad. Yeah. Cinnaminson. All right this year. Cold. Slight chance. Slight chance for Wolf to win. Very, very slight. Extraordinarily slight. Near zero. Yeah. It's into my item. Fortunately. Come on Lapras. Yeah, it's just too hard of that. This is tough Oh, yeah, They don't even need to go for them. Hurricane, because I lost my item. That was smart. A lot. Okay, now, the way that I win, It can happen anymore. This might be it, folks. This really might be it. I. Think this is unfortunate And then. Yeah, it's just actually pretty difficult, They didn't even need their tarot. Let's try it again I don't I think I have to try this again, even I put it in my other mode, but no guarantee That's my good. That's not good. That's okay. This is also isn't Okay, okay, so I've got sportier out. Not nice. There's the tarot. I forced them to tarot by doing us. It's not that good for me Okay. I should have you turn the ensign there And it's going to be So yeah, I'm going to feel. Hey. Nice. Now, there's not really any threat. Okay, so I have no item on Ensign anymore. Is it worth even going for it? Because I could switch and heal. Plus, here, if I wanted to try Here. Oh, it's hurting short, I think. I think it's parting shot. They'd be. They'd be crazy to do anything else. Yeah, yeah. My thrift drop play didn't make much sense I like Force the Terror Out It's okay as a moon. Guess I've used my terror. Kind of not super. I mean, I blocked him So it's not the end of the world. It's not the worst thing I've ever done. Like the table. Oh, well. Okay. Amongus is down and center is nearly down. We both trust lies aren't. Aurora's game is not over. Like it's not great. Don't get me wrong. Certainly not ideal, However, comes in here. Okay, if they double attack here, Call me hurricane. Okay. Give me electroshock. Nice. Usually doesn't matter Returns a pair of song. Oh. Pokemon trapped in the field. Remaining Pokemon in the back. So it just comes down When the goth who stole a flagship. It's his turn two. Or like counters Nice play, smart attack. Pure cold. Doesn't really matter here. Oh, okay. Well, I'm not complaining about it. It's basically the reason that's optimal. Even though it's like, looks a little silly is that this allows me on the incineroar, whereas otherwise I don't think it really matters This game is not over because Incineroar However, at the end of this check both this turn, I should be able to perish and I think I'll win the one versus one We can't get a substitute up here because the reason we can't get a sub up here Lapras is on the parish counter, Like I need Lapras because it's the only thing I have. If I had a foolish queen Ontario designer, But it's not an option. I'm going for the double protect here. If it hits, it doesn't matter. Like what the hell is not all that they're Plus, I get it, okay? I get lucky. I'm getting lucky I didn't need either of these, Oh. Oh, they messed up. They needed to chaos in this turn. I think in that case, I was gonna win this regardless Yeah. Having instance Because they would've had to waste an So for Trump comes out. Okay. So, where we got a game win question is, how do I win the set for this event The thing is, they might leave them which would make me want to do sheer but then they could just bring my sword, I like things that much easier. Like, on sheer cold on like no guards They have to redirect is a focus user. They've got bask illusion. Actually. Khalid on copy. Opium. That's the bad that. I'll just click. Sheer cold. I don't care, I'll do it. Oh, it goes to repel. I was like, there's no way Yeah. Since. Makes sense. Makes sense. Yeah, I can trap them in, Actually. Kind of a bad turn one Five wave crush hurricane would crush goth hurricane The freaking Lapras can't believe it, You're nuts. No, I did it too much. I'm going to hit your cold. I'll do it, I actually do care quite a lot. Show me the demise of Incineroar. Show it to me. This is looking really bad, I think. Oh. Double out. Interesting. Mungus. Okay, Eric, I want to make a lot of sense. Oh, this is bad, Literally just harried. Yeah, this is going awfully. That's like sheer cold, in which case All right, come on, Lapras, cool of the tournament. You got me, right? If nobody else got me, I know Lapras, I would have like a shape. This is looking almost impossible they've already tarried. When condition is like something Oh, actually, even that doesn't work. I don't see what a win I think, I think, And I did not I did not play properly. Oh hold on wait, hang on, hang on. I assume they do something different. Oh, that's like one. Wait, hang on a second. Wait. Hang on a second, hang on a second, hang on a second, Wait, hang on a second. I assume they would make for like, This turn is how this is gone. It's actually not 100% sure. We stayed in with our quote on. Hang on a second, this is not over You know what I mean? They get greedy here and do anything This is already kind of gravy Parting shot? Yeah, I could have never throw a drop, so I didn't do it. Hold on. This is not over. Which is a crazy thing to say, I think there's only two turns All right, so let me get this online Oh, hang on, this is not over. Many turns of love or thing or left to. Think a hurricane was of my mind off Though I think it's actually probably better bring over, if it wants to regain which I assume it does because its moves Wait, Our count on can't use electroshock this. Turn right up for switch. This this because I still even don't like anything. I can use body press. I should take this pretty well breath. That's 100%. My bad. I only know what If I had run the calc, I would have known Right now, I can't win anymore. Unfortunately, that's just doing myself. The crazy way to go out. So I could have protected both there I just got greedy with Lapras, that even getting greedy with Lapras Yeah, I legitimately can no longer win That feels pretty bad as well. And both for the flipper. Yeah, actually. But since ends in a parting shot, I hadn't done that and not decent shape, I was, I'm on on a pair of trap team, Parting shot for Kane. Okay, well that's not good. That didn't activate the Barry shoot. I survive. If I still had Lapras. Ascii legends the last man with two stacks and. Brain is still active, right? I'm so close. I'm actually so close. That's the incredible thing. I just needed, like, one more turn here. I need them to go for last respects. Here, not wave crash. Oh, no. I don't think Abel survives this. Not with the mystic water. Wait. Hang on. Wait, wait, hang on a second. It's A1V1. I try, but they're intimidated, I'm intimidated in. They're not. I was so close. I just need the Lapras to be alive. U-turn comes out. Honey, for the doing. Wait. Hang on. Is it more optimal to go for Flare Or I think I have to U-turn Blitz. How much do I have left? This is going to be down to the wire That's not going to be at the end for me. I'm I'm like one attack away. Yeah. Come on, it's an hour. I was so close. Yeah. I feel good about the moves I made, I just came up a little bit short. Oh, it was a hard one. It was a really hard Yeah, it was obviously I made But at the same time, like, So it's hard to like not like I feel like I shouldn't I don't know, although I'll say it, how many hours went live for So I think it makes sense I still think this was a crazy, crazy Gets my thumbs up. Thanks again to Dragon City Click the link in the description and get yourself the free starter pack