For a really long time, I had two mysteries I didn't understand them and, to be honest, I was quite afraid The first mystery was, I'm 40 years old, and all throughout my lifetime, serious depression and anxiety have risen, in the United States, in Britain, and across the Western world. And I wanted to understand why. Why is this happening to us? Why is it that with each year that passes, more and more of us are finding it harder And I wanted to understand this When I was a teenager, I remember going to my doctor and explaining that I had this feeling, I couldn't control it, I didn't understand why it was happening, I felt quite ashamed of it. And my doctor told me a story that I now realize was well-intentioned, but quite oversimplified. Not totally wrong. My doctor said, &quot;We know Some people just naturally get you're clearly one of them. All we need to do is give you some drugs, it will get your chemical So I started taking a drug it's the same thing with different names And I felt much better, But not very long afterwards, this feeling of pain started to come back. So I was given higher and higher doses until, for 13 years, I was taking that you're legally allowed to take. And for a lot of those 13 years, I was still in a lot of pain. And I started asking myself, Because you're doing everything you're told to do by the story why do you still feel like this?&quot; So to get to the bottom for a book that I've written I ended up going on a big journey I traveled over 40,000 miles. I wanted to sit with the leading about what causes depression and anxiety and crucially, what solves them, and people who have come through and out the other side And I learned a huge amount from the amazing people But I think at the heart so far, we have scientific evidence for nine different causes Two of them are indeed in our biology. Your genes can make you though they don't write your destiny. And there are real brain changes that can make it harder to get out. But most of the factors to cause depression and anxiety are not in our biology. They are factors in the way we live. And once you understand them, it opens up a very different that should be offered to people alongside the option For example, if you're lonely, you're more likely If, when you go to work, you've just got to do what you're told, you're more likely to become depressed. If you very rarely get out you're more likely to become depressed. And one thing unites a lot of the causes that I learned about. Not all of them, but a lot of them. Everyone here knows you've all got natural Obviously. You need food, you need water, you need shelter, you need clean air. If I took those things away from you, you'd all be in real trouble, real fast. But at the same time, every human being You need to feel you belong. You need to feel your life You need to feel that people You need to feel you've got And this culture we built And many things are better I'm glad to be alive today. But we've been getting less and less good at meeting these deep, And it's not the only thing but I think it's the key reason And I found this really hard to absorb. I really wrestled with the idea of shifting from thinking of my depression to one with many causes, including many in the way we're living. And it only really began when one day, I went to interview named Dr. Derek Summerfield. He's a great guy. And Dr. Summerfield when they first introduced for people in that country. And the local doctors, the Cambodians, so they were like, what are they? And he explained. And they said to him, &quot;We don't need them, And he was like, &quot;What do you mean?&quot; He thought they were going to talk about like St. John's Wort, ginkgo biloba, Instead, they told him a story. There was a farmer in their community And one day, he stood on a land mine left over from the war and he got his leg blown off. So they him an artificial leg, and after a while, he went back But apparently, it's super painful when you've got an artificial limb, and I'm guessing it was pretty traumatic to go back and work in the field The guy started to cry all day, he refused to get out of bed, he developed all the symptoms The Cambodian doctor said, &quot;This is when we gave him And Dr. Summerfield said, They explained that they went They listened to him. They realized that his pain made sense -- it was hard for him to see it but actually, it had perfectly One of the doctors, talking to the people &quot;You know, if we bought this guy a cow, he could become a dairy farmer, he wouldn't be in this position he wouldn't have to go So they bought him a cow. Within a couple of weeks, within a month, his depression was gone. They said to doctor Summerfield, &quot;So you see, doctor, that cow, that's what you mean, right?&quot; (Laughter) (Applause) If you'd been raised to think and most of the people here were, that sounds like a bad joke, right? &quot;I went to my doctor she gave me a cow.&quot; But what those Cambodian based on this individual, is what the leading the World Health Organization, has been trying to tell us for years, based on the best scientific evidence. If you're depressed, if you're anxious, you're not weak, you're not crazy, you're not, in the main, You're a human being with unmet needs. And it's just as important to think here and the World Health Organization They did not say to this farmer, &quot;Hey, buddy, you need It's your job to figure out On the contrary, what they said is, &quot;We're here as a group so together, we can figure out This is what every depressed person needs, and it's what every This is why one of the leading in their official statement couple of years back in 2017, said we need to talk less and more about the imbalances Drugs give real relief to some people -- they gave relief to me for a while -- but precisely because this problem the solutions need to go much deeper, too. But when I first learned that, I remember thinking, &quot;OK, I could see I read a huge number of studies, I interviewed a huge number of the experts but I kept thinking, &quot;How can we The things that are making us depressed are in most cases more complex with this Cambodian farmer. Where do we even begin with that insight? But then, in the long journey for my book, all over the world, I kept meeting people from Sydney, to San Francisco, to Sao Paulo. I kept meeting people the deeper causes and, as groups, fixing them. Obviously, I can't tell you I got to know and wrote about, or all of the nine causes of depression because they won't let me give you can complain about that to them. But I want to focus on two of the causes and two of the solutions Here's the first. We are the loneliest society There was a recent study &quot;Do you feel like you're no longer And 39 percent of people &quot;No longer close to anyone.&quot; In the international Britain and the rest of Europe in case anyone here is feeling smug. (Laughter) I spent a lot of time discussing this with the leading expert an incredible man who was at Chicago, and I thought a lot about one question Professor Cacioppo asked, &quot;Why do we exist? Why are we here, why are we alive?&quot; One key reason is that our ancestors were really good at one thing. They weren't bigger than the animals they weren't faster than the animals but they were much better and cooperating. This was our superpower as a species -- we band together, just like bees evolved to live in a hive, humans evolved to live in a tribe. And we are the first humans ever to disband our tribes. And it is making us feel awful. But it doesn't have to be this way. One of the heroes in my book, is a doctor named Sam Everington. He's a general practitioner where I lived for many years. And Sam was really uncomfortable, because he had loads of patients coming to him with terrible And like me, he's not opposed he thinks they give But he could see two things. Firstly, his patients were depressed for totally understandable And secondly, although the drugs for many people, The underlying problem. One day, Sam decided A woman came to his center, called Lisa Cunningham. I got to know Lisa later. And Lisa had been shut away in her home for seven years. And when she came to Sam's center, we'll carry on giving you these drugs, but we're also going to prescribe We're going to prescribe for you to meet with a group of other not to talk about how miserable you are, but to figure out something so you won't be lonely and you won't feel The first time this group met, Lisa literally started it was so overwhelming for her. But people rubbed her back, they were like, &quot;What could we do?&quot; These are inner-city, they didn't know anything about gardening. They were like, &quot;Why don't we There was an area that was just scrubland. &quot;Why don't we make this into a garden?&quot; They started to take books started to watch YouTube clips. They started to get They started to learn There's a lot of evidence that exposure to the natural world is a really powerful antidepressant. But they started to do something They started to form a tribe. They started to form a group. They started to care about each other. If one of them didn't show up, the others would go Help them figure out The way Lisa put it to me, &quot;As the garden began to bloom, we began to bloom.&quot; This approach is called it's spreading all over Europe. And there's a small, suggesting it can produce real in depression and anxiety. And one day, I remember that Lisa and her once-depressed it's a really beautiful garden -- and having this thought, it's very much inspired by a guy I was thinking, so often what we say to them -- I'm sure we say, &quot;You just need And I've realized, actually, &quot;Don't be you. Don't be yourself. Be us, be we. Be part of a group.&quot; (Applause) The solution to these problems does not lie in drawing as an isolated individual -- that's partly what got us in this crisis. It lies on reconnecting And that really connects of depression and anxiety So everyone knows junk food has taken over our diets I don't say that I literally came to give I saw all of you eating that But just like junk food has taken over a kind of junk values and made us mentally sick. For thousands of years, if you think life is about money, you're going to feel like crap. That's not an exact quote but that is the gist of what he said. But weirdly, hardy anyone until a truly extraordinary person who's at Knox College in Illinois, and he's been researching this And his research suggests Firstly, the more you believe you can buy and display and into a good life, the more likely you are to become And secondly, as a society, we have become All throughout my lifetime, under the weight of advertising And as I thought about this, I realized it's like we've all been fed We've been trained to look for happiness and just like junk food and actually makes you feel terrible, junk values don't meet and they take you away from a good life. But when I first spent time and I was learning all this, I felt a really weird mixture of emotions. Because on the one hand, I could see how often I tried to remedy it with some kind of And I could see why that I also thought, Isn't this almost like banal, right? If I said to everyone here, none of you are going to lie and think about all the shoes you bought you're going to think about moments of love, meaning I think that seems almost like a cliche. But I kept talking &quot;Why am I feeling And he said, &quot;At some level, But in this culture, We know them so well but we don't live by them. I kept asking why, why would we know but not live by it? And after a while, &quot;Because we live in a machine that is designed to get us to neglect I had to really think about that. &quot;Because we live in a machine that is designed to get us And professor Kasser wanted to figure out He's done loads of research into this; I'll tell you about one example, and I really urge everyone here With a guy called Nathan Dungan, to come together for a series of sessions And part of the point of the group was to get people to think they had actually found For different people, For some people, it was playing music, I'm sure everyone here And part of the point of the group &quot;OK, how could you dedicate to pursuing these moments and less to, I don't know, putting it on social media 'OMG, so jealous!'&quot; And what they found was, just having these meetings, it was like a kind of Alcoholics Anonymous Getting people to have these meetings, determine to act on them led to a marked shift in people's values. It took them away from this hurricane training us to seek happiness and towards more meaningful that lift us out of depression. But with all the solutions that I saw and many I can't talk about here, I kept thinking, you know: Why did it take me so long Because when you explain them to people -- some of them are more when you explain this to people, At some level, we already Why do we find it so hard to understand? I think there's many reasons. But I think one reason is of what depression There are very real to depression and anxiety. But if we allow the biology as I did for so long, as I would argue our culture what we're implicitly saying to people but what we're implicitly &quot;Your pain doesn't mean anything. It's just a malfunction. It's like a glitch in a computer program, it's just a wiring problem in your head.&quot; But I was only able to start when I realized your depression It's a signal. Your depression is a signal. It's telling you something. (Applause) We feel this way for reasons, and they can be hard to see I understand that really well But with the right help, and we can fix these problems together. But to do that, the very first step is we have to stop insulting these signals by saying they're a sign of weakness, except for a tiny number of people. We need to start because they're telling us It's only when we truly and we honor these signals that we're going to begin to see the liberating, nourishing, The cows that are waiting all around us. Thank you. (Applause)