Miss Feng, Master Xue is waiting for you inside. It hasn't even started yet. No, one more. Uh-huh. Let me tell you something. OK Leave him alone. Washed It's cold. You wear more clothes. Leave me alone Did you send me a message and ask me to deliver it to you? Humph I'll send you a message. Humming Dance Do you think it's possible? Ah Lin Duoduo Are you playing with your phone again? People care about you too Since he sent it Then you give it to him. Give it to me. Oops, fifth sister I'm really inviting you today. I heard your store is very busy. Why don't I give you the missed work fee? Good 188,000 Cash or transfer? You corrupt me What card fee is 188,000? The new product just came out of the store. A head blogger will decide on the spot But only I can do it. So I pushed the money to others Brother Xingchi Okay, honeycomb. I sent this message. He still humiliated me as always Anyway, I owe him my life Xiao Jiu Ye has arrived Xiao Jiu Ye Long time no see. This is to make us stand in Fengxiaocao Xiao Jiu Ye You all stand afraid Some time ago, the consent of Duoduo Wei Jingning Moments sent your photo Wei Ning has attracted a lot of rotten peach blossoms and trouble I'm so sorry. But He didn't mean to Your people have also punished him Why don't I just forget about it? Master Xu, what does this woman have to do with you? If I remember correctly You and Feng Xiaocao are a couple Aren't you already engaged? Did you cheat? No, Xiaojiu Ye The matter between me and Brother Xingchi It has nothing to do with this I think it does. His fiancee is standing here He doesn't plead The little thing about that woman, he made a lot of people Did I feel wrong? Why does he seem to be speaking for me? Xiaojiu Ye misunderstood The engagement is all rumors outside Who is it in this cold day? Air conditioner on 18 Do you pay the electricity bill? Xiaojiuye, how many degrees do you like 37 degrees? Jiu Ye's highest is only 30 degrees Only 30 degrees What are you laughing at? I have no common sense. Then drive to the highest Oh good Fu Sijiu's actions today are really abnormal Jiu Ye has to forgive others and forgive others Either for the sake of his ignorance It's not me. Lao Tzu describes my mistake Xiao Jiu Ye was my fault before Moments and photos are deleted Just forgive me once do not This woman apologized to me I'm afraid of ruining my life Let this torture be replaced by those who laugh at me Xiaojiu asked Lin Duoduo to apologize to Feng Wu Are your ears not good? This Feng Xiaozao dares to laugh at me I will be punished if this woman dares to take candid photos. Master Xiao Jiu, are you trying to humiliate me? I'm not happy. I'm leaving now. Hey My time is precious Not something 180,000 can afford This chaotic devil Are you really helping me get justice? Sister Wu, I'm sorry It hurts. Let's see if you still dare to laugh at me in the future Feng Wuyuan does not forgive Miss Lin I'm apologizing to you. Then I don't forgive Miss Lin Xiao Jiu Ye said he would not forgive Nothing much happened. I'll go first then. It's too hot. Here you go. No need, it won't be cold when I get in the car in a while Let you wear it What a lot of nonsense Then thank you, Miss. I'll give it back to you after I wash it It turns out that I didn't wait for my brother because I was afraid that my sister would be bullied It's still too hot to give the coat to others I think you are just afraid that people will freeze and hum. You think too much I see him blind and pitiful I'm afraid he will freeze his heart blind again It turned out to be climbing Fu Sijiu No wonder maybe you think too much. This rich old demon is already moody Don't play according to the routine Are you really not afraid that I will know the truth of that year? What's so scary? What if he knew Xingchi, enough is enough. You knew it wasn't his Wrong, I have my own measure. Wu is back Where did you get that coat? I have to pay my friend back after he washes it. heard Xingchi bullied you again Dad? I want to move out. It's the following. The dessert shop is on track. Often need to stay up late and work overtime Living at home is inconvenient Is it because the Xu family is next door? After all, we are sorry If it weren't for looking for your mother star back then You won't be robbed and killed Not because of him Dad? I grew up. Time to live on your own You two are still engaged Why not get engaged first? Dad, I don't want to get engaged Nonsense This is your mother and Xu's mother Engagement made together This is your mother's wish Also, our family owes the Xu family This marriage can only be said by the Xu family Dad? You clearly know that Brother Xingchi doesn't love me at all I don't understand the significance of this marriage You know if our Feng family quits the marriage How many people out there will poke our spine? Oops ok ok Let's not talk about these unhappy things Come on, have some fruit Have you seen the news? The rich young master of the port district took over the vice city The core business has fallen into the hands of the big house Auntie, how did you know this? Oops, it's from chatting with the wives Fosgio was still young when he was sent to the cities At that time, the Fu family was in chaos It is said that when filling in the college entrance examination volunteers His sister asked him to apply for a job As a result, as soon as he turned around, Fu Sijiu reported to Zhu Da His family was furious. Speaking of which He is still your senior Hmm aunt When you chat with other wives It's better to talk less about father and son wine He's pretty stingy Okay, okay. In a few days, it will be Xingchi's 25th birthday. Don't forget to prepare. Ah! Xiao Tang Remember to put more mangoes in the Xu family's cake to form A good sister Wu Welcome. Fu Sijiu has never been to a place like this before Did he come here specifically to find me? Feng Xiaocao, bring me a cup of coffee Why does Xiaojiu have time to come here today? Passing by Why don't you welcome me? Feng Wu, why are you so narcissistic? I think they're here for you How would I dare without me Little Jiu, how many times have I said it? Don't call Xiao Jiu Ye Does he think I'm calling him old? Nine songs Hey, don't invite you for me. Just thank you for speaking up for me in the box I didn't speak for you. I know you're not trying to speak for me. But a few words from you It was a huge help to me. I have nothing to give you either. I can only buy you a cup of coffee. Fengxiaocao When will you remember me? How dare you be so arrogant in Zhucheng? I really don't know who I am I have to give you some color today. Kind of you kill me That's all. He probably forgot By the way, do you want to pack it or drink it in the store? Pack Why is Brother Jiu sleepy so early in the morning? I came to your store to buy coffee when I was sleepy Why not welcome Alipay received 1,000 yuan Brother Jiu said it was my treat You can't pay I will add your contact information. Transfer the money to you. OK Moments need to like in the future, just ask Okay, I have to go first Wow Fu Si 9 is too handsome Isn't he as rebellious as the rumors suggest? I feel like you two have a CP feeling I can't climb a person like Little Tang Fu Sijiu Oh, I said something wrong. I know how little you have I have nothing to do with Brother Apricot Remember to send the cake to Xu's house later when you're done. I'll go first Ah Wu, why are you like his servant? I came all the way back, and you didn't say to accompany me. Do you still have me as a friend in your heart? Ok this is my job You can pull it down No one works for free I owe Shin Chi I don't know in my life What do you owe? Again What does this have to do with you? Blame the robber who killed Xu's mother Yin Yin, stop talking If it weren't for me Mother Xu would not have encountered that gangster All this is what I deserve Alright alright I won't say it. Hey, who is that little fox spirit beside him? Xu Whistle on the left The one on the right So annoying Suitor I really hope Uncle Feng sees him like this Cut off the idea of matching you I feel like eating cake Sure! Let's cut the cake! Ah Wuzou Help Xingchi cut the cake Oh, hurry up and call you together. Ah Wu Quick Cake Cut it And so forth. Let Duoduo write for me Xu Xingchi Don't forget who you are engaged to What is he? Again engagement Did I say yes? You are beautiful Stop talking. Huh? Oops, why are they all mangoes? Xingchi hates mangoes the most Honeycomb cake you made You eat him Xu Xingchi, you are crazy You know Awu is allergic to mangoes Xingchi, don't go too far Almost got it So what? Just allergies Can't die Brother Xingchi Xingchi brother How to hook up with the assistant wine The wings are hard I have nothing to do with the ninth brother Brother Jiu is quite affectionate Don't forget who my mother died for You owe me I don't know in my life Xingchi, don't go too far Just a plate of cake It's not that hard Eat him and maybe I'll forgive you The wind demon is what you owe him after all What right do you have to refuse? From now on, we Dawn grass You sue Are you crazy? You know you're allergic to mangoes You still want to eat? Is Xu Xingchen that important to you? You don't even want your life for him If something really happened to him I'm not done with you Xu Xingchi, do it Ah Wu let you go He owes me He will never run away Wherever he is I will definitely catch him Go to the hospital to find an allergy department is the best doctor to come here Doctor doctor Doctor Doctor doctor Put the patient to the bed now Let it go Ah Wu Ah Wu Ah Wu Ah Wu Don't worry, wait outside first The doctor said to stay asleep Is it cold? Not cold Mom will cut you an apple Have a piece You wait for me here. I miss you so much! Brother Jiu, please. How much is the medical bill? I'll transfer it to you later. Feng Xiaocao, as I said There's no need to be so polite with me What were you crying about? It can't be because of Xu Xingchi's attitude, right? If so You should really change the water in my head Hey How old are you? I don't know if I'm sick. Be good It has nothing to do with him. Why is that? Allergy medicine needs to be taken continuously for a week You need to pay special attention when you go back these two days. If the disease recurs, you will be hospitalized I see, doctor. Thank you, I'll go first then. Ok, I'll take you back Well, thank you, ninth brother Remember to take your medicine when you go back. Be careful of swelling into a pig's head Oh, I see. Thank you nine brother Poor ah. Ah Wu's sister also has a stepmother and stepbrother at home It is estimated that the family property will belong to the younger brother in the future He also put on Xu Xingchi, the grinding goblin He and Xu Xingchi will break up How are you sure you will move? Sister Wu follows behind the bloody pool every day Just because of this Probably not. I bet she does. Dad? I have discussed with your Uncle Xu Since you really have no feelings Let this marriage be over Thanks, Dad. But ah! Don't think about you moving out. Here I stayed at home obediently But I've already paid the deposit. In the Rose Garden It's near the Temple. It's not negotiable. Do you want more people to see my Feng Houhai jokes? Laugh at my big Feng family can't accommodate you Or laugh at your stepmother for mistreating your father So many years You also know that the women around Brother Xin Zhi have never broken up In fact, if he hadn't gone too far You won't stand up for me and break the marriage All you care about is the face of the Feng family You have the nerve to say All I'm doing is atoning for your sins. If it weren't for your mother Xu She won't allow it Mom won't die I've heard it so many times over the years. But I'm not something you put on a show Hey Lao Feng I won't tolerate it anymore Ah Wu Ah Wu It's getting more and more outrageous, isn't it? If only mom were still here Two mothers My marriage to Brother Xingchi That's it, okay? I've really tried my best for so many years I'm so tired. Mom? Please help me intercede with Xu's mother Let her not blame me, okay? Mom, I miss you so much. Feng Xiaocao told Jiu Ge Why are you crying? Thank you nine brother Why is Brother Jiu here? Of course I'm worried about you. Hanging out with you Why are you driving here? No one is allowed to come Brother Jiu likes to visit the cemetery when he is idle Is this the hobby of the rich? Who taught you this way of speaking? Aren't you afraid that I will be angry? Never mind. I don't care about you anymore My car broke down! Send me back, come to wish Brother Jiu, you can actually call a car The phone is dead. No wallet So you still come out in the middle of the night Feng Xiaocao Do you want to send it or not? Can't I send it? That's weird Hey, what do you need? A bowl of wontons I want a bowl of wontons too Is there anything to avoid? No scallions Hey girl, you don't understand Green onion is the soul Just taste it and you'll know Forget it, Sadhu Eat it then Wontons for two He's helping me pick scallions If you don't like it, why don't you refuse? The boss is also kind And I can eat some scallions I said before that I don't eat scallions. Auntie never let go of cooking Later, my dad always mentioned how your aunt was Don't make her sad Feng Xiaocao You don't have to compromise like this every time Don't feel like you will trouble others every time. Got it, brother nine And don't cry to your mother every time you are wronged Auntie will be sad to know If you have anything to do in the future, please contact Jiu Ge. OK What are you looking at? I know I'm handsome. Eat now From now on, you will be under my control I won't let you be bullied again Walk home after eating Brother Jiu, let me take you home No, I'll take a taxi. Didn't you bring your phone and wallet? I'm teasing you. I'll be going back then. Give me peace when you get home You don't have to compromise like this every time Don't feel like you will trouble others every time. And don't cry to your mother every time you are wronged Auntie got it. Will be sad If you have anything to do in the future, please contact Jiu Ge. I finally have my own home Dad should go back and divorce Brother Qingchi Yin Yin, I moved to a new house. Can you come and warm up for me? Okay, why did you suddenly figure it out? Not with your stepmother and brother OK I will never have to please their family again Then I'll go play with you. Feng Wu From now on, you will no longer have to be in the Feng family Playing an emotionless puppet Where do you intend to go? Go to the Feng family Today is a good day. I'm going to hold the bracelet that my mother left for my daughter-in-law Go to Feng's house to propose marriage You don't have to go. The Feng family has broken off the marriage. How is that possible? How could he break the marriage? Even if Feng Wu is fooling around Uncle Feng won't agree either You stop for me You went too far that day Your Uncle Feng is a very face-saving person You brought that woman into the open You didn't hit Feng Wu in the face It was him, Feng Houhai's face. I'm going to apologize Just a phone call from me Ben Wu will be pasted back like a dog skin plaster immediately Xu Xingchi, you are enough Who did your mother go out for in the first place? Don't you understand? He chased after you to find you who failed the college entrance examination. Knowing that your mother died because of you He also put this on Feng Wu's head Jiu Ge Why are you here? I heard you moved here I happened to pass by the airport Just came to see you how You want to catch a cold and then touch me Nope. Where is Jiu Ge going to the airport for New Year's Day? OK Going back to Harbor City Brother Jiu, why did you come to Zhucheng at that time? Can I ask this question? First, our old man married 3 wives before and after I've been messing around a lot outside these years And I'm the old demon in the house For the sake of inheritance There has been a lot of civil strife in the Fu family over the years Big brother and sister are afraid that I will be hurt. Sent me here It turns out that the Prince of Gangque is not so easy to be Fengxiaocao You're not going to tell my secrets around. How is that possible? Of course not, I swear. OK I believe you. What about the second one? Feng Wu, why are you so gossipy? Jiu Ye The family is urging That is The second reason I'll tell you next time. Brother Jiu is leaving today If you have anything, remember to call Jiu Ge OK Go up, I'll go when you go upstairs I'll be going back then. Feng Xiaocao, I hope you really let go Dangdang Dangdang Last course Hurry up and eat Why is it so amazing? It's a must. Try it A warm house banquet on New Year's Eve Ah Wu, who are you sending a message to? Why are you so happy? Oops, I didn't message anyone. I saw it. You just smiled so brightly Are you still in touch with Xu Xingchi? Yin Yin I won't have anything to do with Brother Xingchi anymore Cheers. Cheers. I said Xiaojiu is in a good mood today Is there a situation with you? Are you in love? OK But you're really getting old Time to find a girlfriend Why not? Your family is going to arrange a blind date for you. I already have someone I like Why don't you bring it back and show it to your family? It's tilting I said Xiaojiu We can't do this immoral thing. It's not because of him I've been guilty of my mother's death my whole life It's all my default This matter is just for the help of the Feng family Now the Feng family is also willing to help us That's good. I don't agree with that. You don't like him either, why bother? This marriage is over Don't make it too ugly at the end Phoenix Demon wants to get rid of me Don't think about it, Brother Jiu, you are really a god Sister Awu really broke off the marriage And it was Feng Houhai who personally came to find Xu Kun They rejected their marriage And not only that. Sister Awu also moved out Give me the address. Hey, side by side, side by side Why don't you go to my side and shoot? Hey, take a look at the painting here. What's up? Hey It seems true Ah Wu, do you remember that Fox Bar? At the last birthday party The Fosse that helped you out Are you familiar? Me and Fosse Can it be considered a relationship of friends? Hmm, not that familiar Hmm, that's fine. I heard that you are rich recently Arranging a blind date marriage for him You can watch out for those rich daughters Don't be targeted because he helped you out before Ah! It's not that exaggerated He is Fu How many people in his family want to be his woman? Don't get involved in a relationship with him. Where can I portray Fu Si wine? Hey, is Sister Wu avoiding suspicion? It seems that you went to the park with Miss Tian And it worked. Ask the eldest sister to give me an explanation. If not for the consent of the eldest sister Which reporter dares to post lace news about the Fu family? Hype me and Tian Jia Just pretend I'm dead? Hey bro, you are emotionally unstable right now Where are you going? I'm going to explain it to Wu I have nothing to do with that Tian What did you explain? Said it was actually your sister who let you go there on purpose Is she forcing you to go on a blind date? Xiaojiu, what position do you use to find Sister Ah Wu? Besides, people don't care at all now Shut up if I can't speak Brother Jiu, why are you here? Shouldn't you accompany your girlfriend? No store is open on New Year's Day Just you with the light on. I thought there was a burglar It's better to come early than by chance Make me a cup of coffee By the way, I have to congratulate the ninth brother. The good thing is approaching Then how much are you going to pack for me? You have to wrap a big red envelope. Remember to call me for the wedding banquet Let me have a big meal Then you can't point to this meal Why are you still angry? Would you be angry if you were designed? My eldest sister fucks me I happened to go home with you Actually nothing Why explain so much in one go? Would you like to add some milk or sugar? No. Then add some coconut milk It's not that hard. You are laughing at me dare not dare You read it wrong. If you have time, you can correct your myopia. You're more and more open to me now I'm going to wash the cups Hey Just leave it alone, I'll do it Then I pay This is the first time in my life Someone is sitting here drinking coffee with me Someone is willing to accompany me to waste time slowly Wait a minute, is there anything else? Ah! OK There are dragon lanterns in the park There are also activities to guess lantern riddles Walk with me He just dragged me away So natural Hey this handsome guy Look at this rabbit lantern. This is our best-selling product. Look, this is the last one. Ah! It's agreed to go to the lantern festival How can there be no lanterns? Ah Wu, there is only this last windmill You can give this windmill to your brother Dad? Didn't you say before that you would give me the windmill? Ah Wu Ah Wu How old are you? Don't you know how to let your brother? You really don't seem sensible. Wu is fine Ah Wu, take it If Auntie Xiao Li likes it, give it to him, I don't want it. To thank my sister Thank you, sister. Hey, thank you, sister. Take it and play I have grown up Don't buy it. How much is the boss? Ten bucks. Okay. Brother Jiu, wait a minute What's wrong with buying a lantern? Grinding To me you are a child I should teach you to get in the way Hit someone instead of apologizing And curse your parents? Brother Jiu, why are you bullying my son? Let him go He hit somebody. I must apologize today Otherwise I won't let go I didn't hit a good one. Let go of my son Nine brother forget it Don't worry, there is Jiu Ge I won't let you be wronged. Are you okay baby? Apologize or I'll tell your teacher Don't tell the teacher. I'll just apologize. Sister, I'm sorry. It doesn't matter. Okay, say sorry and it's alright You are such an adult, and you still care about a child. Bad luck. Let's go I'm sorry, Brother Nine blames me Buddha Xiaocao, if others bully you You're just standing there It's my fault for not avoiding Buddha Xiaocao, you were not like this before What happened to you? To make you like this Jiu Ge is in pain Next time you are bullied by others, you will stand and watch so stupidly How can I deal with you? If someone bullies you You bully back If you can't fight, call me to help you stand out OK, I see. Thank you nine brother Since my mother passed away This is the first time someone has bought me a lantern It was also the first time that someone treated me like a child i Some cooperative merchants who change employee benefits are about to expire It just so happens that you include employee benefits The company responsible for afternoon tea and birthday cakes Cooperation stopped That's it. Everything else is business as usual. Yes, which one will it be replaced by after it is stopped? Field Don't you want to cut off all contact with me? Not as you wish Brother Jiu, thank you for the lantern you gave me today. This is the shell I found. Made it yourself If you don't mind Do not dislike Sorry, this is the only thing I can give away now. Make do with it That reciprocity A commemorative gift for us Feng Xiaocao Brother, I can't accept this. It's too expensive If you really want to thank me Then just send me a cake next time Remember I like chocolate OK, I remember. Thank you nine brother I'll go back first Goodbye ninth brother See you next time. Wind Xiaocao, I have patience I will give you enough time. Let you accept me slowly Sister Xu's Group has moved such a large order. Could it have something to do with Xu Shao? Manager Wang said Uncle Xu meant it. Uncle Xu takes care of our business This face cannot be denied. Again This order is enough for us to flow for a year That makes sense. Okay Pack up Let's go What's that? Such an unpalatable thing I thought it was something good What rubbish Shh! Quiet! This is personally designated by Xu Shao Xu Shao is not as good as Mr. Xu If he hears the speech, it will be troublesome It is Don't let people say it's not delicious I don't know what way the owner went. Can you squeeze out my cousin's house? Humph I am the store manager. The product you just mentioned It is the peach gum that has been selling well in our store. You said it wasn't delicious, please advise. A bad thing is a bad thing Even a piece of trash deserves my advice you If the materials used in your cousin's house can be as good as hers I'll have her back right away Does he have it? Xu Shao, I just said it casually Don't just say it casually Forgive you. No need tomorrow. Give me one more chance Give me another chance. Ah Wu, I have something to tell you Borrow or not speak No, nothing else. Sister, it's alright. Wait for me here. Okay. If you have anything to say, just say it As a person at the party I have cut ties with him Forget about you making Uncle Feng regret his marriage I'm serious about Brother Xingchi's regret of marriage Han Wu You used to call me Brother Xingchi I know you're saying that now. Just to get my attention If you say the marriage contract is business as usual, don't make trouble Brother Xingchi, I am ashamed of Mother Xu Ashamed of you But all these years I have saddled you before and after Plus I owe you for the birthday party It's already paid off, so Please let me go Ah Wu Ah Wu What you owe me will never be paid I'll let you come back on your own initiative. Where have you been? I'll be there in a minute. Box 8401, don't go wrong Don't always treat me like a child I found it myself. By the way, this cake you chose Will your friend really like it? I picked it out. He dared not See you later. See you later. You are Feng Wu Hmph, simp beside Xu Xingchi Are you in the wrong place? There's nothing for you here. Xu Shao I'm here to deliver the cake I said your Feng family is not poor either I even want you to make money by yourself This is too different from the treatment of your brother What if you asked me? Maybe I can mention it in front of Xiao Jiu Ye It wouldn't be so miserable to give you a life Ha, ha, you know each other? Nonsense Ying Xuan's cousin Zhang Yizhi is today's protagonist It is also Xiao Jiu's childhood I don't need to say more about the relationship between Yingxuan and Xiaojiu Ye Then you give him a call first Ask him when he will arrive. What are you? Dare to instruct me to do things Lin Duoduo, do you know? He just posted a photo in Moments I don't need to say more about the end How can Lin Duoduo compare to me? My relationship with Xiaojiu Ye My relationship with you Say it and listen Why don't I know? That's not true. Xiao Jiu Ye is Feng Wu We see him working hard to open a store I want to help him. He humiliated us instead He also bullied Yin Xuan Don't believe we know you Yes, Xiao Jiu Ye You mustn't trust him. Are you Zhang Yizhi's cousin? Yes, I often hear my cousin mention you I didn't expect you to remember me So Rumors are also meant by your cousin No, I didn't. Brother Jiu, what are you doing? Don't mess with my hair Not bad this time When others bully you, you still know how to talk back deserving of praise Come on. I'll take you in Jiu Ge Feng Wu can actually call Xiao Jiu Ye What is their relationship? Feng Wu and Xiao Jiu Ye are such real-world friends Then I just messed up Hey, can I do this? Look, Brother Jiu Take care of your sister I protect the short Next time, don't blame me for turning my face and not recognizing people What happened to the ninth brother? Humph Ask your good sister. Why don't you come in quickly? Am I wrong? He, Feng Wu, followed Xu Shao every day I also went to eat allergic mango cake for Xu Shao Now he is here to seduce Xiao Jiu Ye again So what's going on? I have to go first Hey, Feng Xiaocao Jiu Ge Your sister. If you are If you can't handle it, don't blame me for helping you deal with Brother Jiu yourself. So the two of them met before More than that, do you really think the dignified bully of the port area After coming here for so many years Is it really because you like it here? Jiang Yixue, you have caused a big disaster this time Now pray that Xiao Jiu Ye can coax Sister Wu well She is just a simp of Xu Shao How can you compare to me? Do it yourself In the heart of Jiu Ge What do you compare to Sister Wu? What are you? A simp reverse sticker still wants to compare with me I still want to confuse Xiao Jiu Ye I will never make him feel better What are you running for? I felt uncomfortable and came out first You told me. There's no need to put up with it all the time you Is it because of the mention of Xu Qingchi that you are uncomfortable? It's raining outside I brought an umbrella Do you need it? I'm rushing home for Xiaoli's birthday party Buddha Xiaocao I really want to get into your head sometimes See what you're thinking Let go of me Let me hold you for a while, okay? I have something to do, so I'm leaving first Feng Xiaocao When will you have me in your heart? Today is Xiaoli's birthday party I told you to come back early Several customers just asked me where you were Knowing that I don't know what to say behind my back It was you who had a conflict with your brother Or did you have leisure with your stepmother? Sorry, Dad. I have some time today. Enough enough enough Go put on some makeup and cover your ugly face It's like a serious illness If you don't know, how do you think my house price is screwed? I didn't bring makeup Xu Ying is inside I'll borrow some cosmetics from him later. Feng Wu, you did it on purpose Did you deliberately make this a ghost for the guests to see? So that the guests can say that I and your stepmother abused you Really? uncle Han Wu is not like this He didn't come today. Came here to eat Just to not miss Xiaoli's birthday party Right I just wanted them to see me like this. Let them know that you mistreated my stepmother Treat me harshly, Feng Jiadong You bastard Xiao Jiu Ye now has a son in the Feng family There's no room for your daughter, right? Where is it? Master Xiao Jiu, why didn't you tell me in advance when you came? Why don't you take a seat first? I didn't expect it. Every time someone shows up to save me when I'm in a mess It was all him No. This Feng family banquet is too expensive I can't afford it. No, no, no. Xiao Jiu Ye is serious Is he okay now? Uh uh uh I can take it Ah! Uh uh uh Hey wait, I'm with you too OK Are you two getting in the way? How come? Have some I will have no appetite I close the mic I won't be polite if Xiaojiu treats me I want this one. And this. One copy each By the way, another bowl of porridge And chicken soup Don't put green onions in chicken soup Okay, he actually remembers What are you busy with recently? I didn't even have time for breakfast. Thank you, Brother Nine The dessert shop has received a big order recently Employees can't get started yet I have to take them. Then remember to eat Yo Xiaojiu Beehives are busy making desserts for wedding events There is Xixing That should be done perfectly I can't care what to eat when I'm busy Xu Shi, hasn't he put down Xu Xingchi yet? They want to choose Ah Wu's dessert shop That's also Ah Wu's excellent What are you yin and yang monsters doing? If he's really that busy Can you talk to Xu Shao? Anyway, Xu Shao loves you so much I will definitely make the decision for you. I heard before An employee questioned Xu Shao's decision He was fired directly Why is this? Xu Xingchi just took over the company and soon someone came Question his decision If he doesn't act Do you want to be thrown up by your employees in the future? They may be a means of governing the company What are the following pairs with our grass? That's the idea. What Xiaojiu said is indeed reasonable We are shallow. Why is this ninth master still protecting him? Your little crispy meat Here's what I ordered especially for you. I remember Xu Xingchi didn't like to eat this You eat for him every time I guess you must love it. Ah! It's useless to give you a chance. What are you? Bullied him again and again in front of me Do you really think I don't exist? Is there something wrong with the two of them? He even knew Wu's taste and preferences I'm going out to answer the phone OK What's the matter with you two? Say if you're behind my back No. What? It's hard to say. Really not? Nope. Well, I think he's pretty careful with you In fact, I want to say that you are a good match I told you to stay away from Fu Sijiu before I'm afraid you'll be hurt by the socialites who like him suffer undue disaster But now it seems. He's been nice to you. If you two mean that In fact, Fu Sijiu is your best choice Why did you suddenly say this? I didn't think so much The rich are powerful If you marry him Your dad won't dare to care about you anymore And you're free. That's from a fire pit Jump into another fire pit? Hey, that's not what it says If he really loves you How is this a fire pit? Oh, me. I didn't think about it that much anyway I don't know what love is either Move with your heart You'll figure it out. Think about it. I guess I have to try harder. Master Xiao Jiu, I didn't say anything wrong He Feng Wu is a simp of Xu Shao roll Thank you nine brother It's actually fine. I don't care what they say Feng Xiaocao You don't care Or because I didn't let go of that person at all? Let's go Feng Xiaocao, what do you want to do? Xiao Jiu Ye, my name is Feng Wu Not called Feng Xiaocao Thank you for protecting me just now. But I can't stand it. Go first Zhang Yizhi My friendship with you ends here And that cousin I must make him pay After Xu's mother died Awu's heart has been closed all these years It's rare that he can treat an outsider There are so many emotions It seems that this Master's wine is for Awu Really unusual Hey 5 You are absent-minded Can't do things well Take a break I don't have it, you have it. Are you mad at Fu Sijiu? Why is that? Fu Cijiu is very nice. It's different from the kind of dude others say It's just the appearance of Jiang Yixuan today Let me see a fact We are not in the same circle. I don't want to be with people in that circle anymore Have any connection Ah Wu, you are taking anger at him It's been seven or eight years It's my first time today. I saw the attack star again in you, I didn't Yeah, I'm just mad at him. I don't care what other people think of me and Xu Xingchi But he can't Ah Wu is different for you Think about it. I'll go first Why are you here? Didn't answer the phone No message back Are you going to ignore me in the future? How dare I be angry with Xiao Jiu Ye Check the phone I was just making you a cake and coffee The phone is next to it But didn't look Then should you apologize to me? A cake made especially for you Let's do it there. Try it. How did it go? Seeing you care so much about me Forget it this time Um, so-so. Thank you, Brother Jiu, for your face If you anger me for no reason next time, I will How are you I'll pinch your face off pain Don't act like a spoiled child Thank you Jiu Ye for your face It's all finished You made every cake in this store Isn't there a lot of work in the store recently? I didn't do it all myself I didn't make one for your brother Xingchi either. Why bring him up again? Do you have a grudge against him? Have a grudge against Who are you going to fight? OK This you this you this You're almost there No pain It clearly hurts me You're not going to get my forgiveness anymore Hahahaha Xiaoli, what's wrong? elder sister I didn't know you had such a miserable life outside Why didn't you tell me? What's the matter, sister, how are you? Don't lie to me. They say you're so poor that you do everything yourself in a dessert shop If you need money I'll give you my lucky money and pocket money. They are talking nonsense Sister is rich Making desserts is just my sister's hobby Just keep the money When you grow up, buy diamonds for Xiaomei, okay? Sister, don't lie to me. I have money. I'm super rich And dad and mom said From now on, the entire Feng family will be mine I can support you What! What! Ah Wu should study hard The company is the work of my parents It's up to you from now on Ah Wu has no brothers and sisters The better Feng Ah Wu will have more confidence when he grows up If someone bullies you Mom and Dad can make decisions for you Nope. Sister believes in you Sister, there is something else Just hang up What's up? My parents used to tell me I have no siblings. So leave Feng's to me as a dowry Now I have brothers and sisters The assets that are close to me are gone Then grab it back What to grab Feng's Your mother's blood That part I never thought about arguing with Xiaoli I just didn't expect my father to leave it for me at all Feng Xiaocao, you don't argue Do you want to look at what your mother left you? Leave it to others too? Dad, will you really Leave me nothing? Feng Xiaocao Are you really going to be so soft-tempered for a lifetime? Yeah. Take your time I'm always on your side. Sister Wu has an accident This is the cake shop. My wife hurts like this Come and judge, guys My wife ate their cake to make it hurt like this No one can stand up You look pale. Sir, have something to say Let's go inside and talk Stop calling your boss Your boss is not coming We're not going anywhere. You are the boss, right? My wife ate your cake and became like this What do you say? Don't worry We use the freshest ingredients And the cakes made that day will have samples. We will arrange sample delivery immediately. Your lover looks miserable I'll accompany you to the hospital first, okay? Don't bother Isn't there a flow of medicine? Bring the sample. You ate it? I'm sure it's not the cake Sister, they bought a mango mousse cake. You can't eat them. I'll show you. No, I want the boss to eat it himself The boss doesn't dare to eat So there's a problem. Don't dare to come again I dare not eat the cake You see he doesn't eat Absolutely or something expired. Or there are definitely additives or something. I am the boss. Who is looking for me, you are the boss He's the boss. Don't try to fool me Am I the boss? Do you want me to tell you? Brother Jiu is here Well, I'm not afraid with Jiu Ge around I don't go to the hospital. He asked me to eat this You are definitely not the boss I want to see your business license You haven't done business, have you? My wife and I own a dessert shop Do you have to use my name? It just so happens that everyone is here His wife is in such pain He's not in a hurry at all I want to pester my wife What's going on? Are you looking at other people's wives? Are you? My wife eats your cake It became like this Don't try to pass the buck. Shameless That is, if it is really the responsibility of our store. We will definitely be responsible to the end. But if you were ordered by someone If you must make it difficult I'm sorry, I won't let any of them go. Oh, dear. Do you still need to be responsible? Then, then, let's go to the hospital for a check-up. Maybe I ate something else wrong. How dare you run? Hey don't go Thank you nine brother Someone should support this today Do you think you have offended anyone recently? No one? Really not That seems to be the Jiang Yingxuan who is chasing you. What, you mean I'm dragging you down? Nope. That's not what I meant. I will definitely check this out. I will give you an explanation. Okay? I was too mean to you just now. Apologize to you. You haven't come to a conclusion on what to apologize for Anyway. Since I scared you It's all my fault Tintin has been sick for the past two days. Xingchi Gothic came to see him Sister, please sit with Brother Xingchi for a while I'll be down in a minute What happened to DingTalk? The Feng family came as a guest a few days ago DingTalk was taken aback. But I've already taken him for an injection No real problems. How much is the medical bill? I'll transfer it to you. No, it's not much. You are busy with work It is inevitable that Ding Ding will not be well taken care of in the Feng family Why don't you put him with me? When do you want to come and see him? Come and see anytime No, I can take care of Tintin myself. So I'll make more when I deliver the cake tomorrow. As a thank you gift I said I can take care of him Don't you understand? Ah Wu You used to love skiing On my birthday I love the skis you gave me Let's go skiing together when you have time. It just so happens that Tintin has never seen snow Let's take him and play together, shall we? No, nothing else. Xingchi brother Actually I don't like skiing. I went back before because I wanted to accompany you. Tintin Brother Xingchi, I'm sorry, we're really not suitable. You should move on too If Mother Xu were there Sure hope you are happy If you need anything in the future I'm always there. Mr. Fu Your car is so exciting to drive, isn't it? necessary This car belongs to Fu Sijiu Are they done? Finished work In a hurry Also for people like Fu Sijiu How can there be a lack of female companions around? I'll see you after get off work. I will go back to Feng's house in the evening Thank you for what just happened The Feng family has treated you like this You go back to the Feng family I'm afraid it's not for Xu Xingchi next door, right? Feng Xiaocao That being the case Then I, Fu Sijiu, will never care about your life or death again Sister, you are back. Sister Xiaoli brought you a gift Thank you, sister. I'll go get you something. Xiangchi brother What are you doing here? Oh sister Sister, why did you leave? Brother Xingchi Why did my sister leave? Is there a problem with Ding Ding again? Nothing urgent Sister will definitely come back Well, go for it. Let me go You will never run away from me Courage Learn to ignore people Mr. Fu, your car is really exciting to drive. necessary He must be chatting with a beautiful woman At this time, you can send another photo of the cat. Definitely disappointing Wait for me downstairs with the cat in 10 minutes Look who this is! Miss Feng is finally going to pay attention to me This is Tintin. My mom gave it to me when I was 10 13 years old now Can you keep her for a few days? It's ok. What's the matter with you? Haven't seen you in a few days They didn't even say hello. Is this your begging attitude? Are you like this with anyone? How am I Just like that Will you agree to someone's request casually? You ask about anyone my father and son wine can help How many can there be? It seems so Who was the person who drove your car in front of my store that day? Company partner He wants to buy the car By the way, let's see if it goes well. Can I drive it? Feng Wu's family is not your boyfriend What kind of jealousy are you eating? You don't even have the right to be jealous, do you? Whatever you want. Put Tintin in my house first Then take you to a place Go! Where are you going? You'll know when it arrives. Get in the car. Lord Xiaoxue has already arrived Dude, what are we doing here? You'll find out later. Wu has me here No one can bully you anymore Brother Jiu, you are here Everyone is here I said I would explain to our Feng Xiaocao I can't let him lose my face My family Feng Xiaocao Sit peacefully This is my location. Xiaojiu Ye Xiaojiu Ye I was wrong. I won't do it again. Please let me go He also did the cake shop before. Layla imported from France Although it is not a good wine He deserves your status and status should be not bad To make amends What do you think? Little Master Miss Feng Miss Feng, I did you wrong. Please let me go Can you help me plead? I plead guilty and get punished Ah! cousin cousin Can you help me plead? I know wrong I already warned you Don't mess with Sister Ah Wu You just don't listen Now you made it all yourself. I can't save you. Team Lord I will not interfere in this matter Jiang Yingxuan is at your disposal Phoenix Dance Do you think you are a good thing? You are simp in front of Xu Shao Sitting in front of him Now I'm relying on Jiu Ye to show off my power here Hahaha, in the end, you are just a water-like flower. The one who pedals two boats? Dare to say Haha, isn't that right? The house has been circling around for many years Xu Shao hates him so much He doesn't care Being bullied and scolded like a dog Stick to him like a bullshit plaster Do whatever you ask him to do I said Xiao Jiu Ye He has done a lot of stupid things for Xu Shao over the years Don't be deceived by him anymore He doesn't deserve it at all he doesn't deserve it Get out of here Hahaha The name Xu Xingchi is really haunting Just remember it all for me Wu is my man If you dare to bully him again Let you know I will pay double Jiu Ge What's up? It's not what Jiang Yixuan said at all Are you tired? I'll have someone take you back Why are you still not happy? It seems that the lesson for Jiang Yixuan is still not enough Come on. Do you not want others to send you? Then I'll give you the car keys You drive yourself? No I want you to send When did you become so clingy? Or are you afraid? You dislike me. Feng Xiaocao, can you live up to your expectations? No matter when You have to be yourself Don't let anyone cocoon you Including yourself. Since you broke up with Xu Qingchi Don't look back Since you decided to stick to me Don't stick to others anymore And I don't dislike you. Don't slander me But you My car broke down! Please accompany me to the 4S store. You also started to call me Feng Xiaocao Then I'll go by myself You just got me. Come on. Hello Miss Feng And this is... I'm Mr. Feng's assistant Okay, please take a look. What about all our vehicle information? It's all here. Brother Jiu has long legs. If you buy this car In the future, Brother Jiu will not feel crowded in the car Miss Feng has a good eye. I remember Mr. and Mrs. Feng also came last time. Mrs. Feng also likes this car very much Sure enough, it's a family All the styles you like are the same. Is that right? Have you reserved this car? Not yet, Mr. Feng thinks so That car is so domineering I'm afraid Mrs. Feng won't be comfortable driving So I switched to a small car of the same price Dad is really considerate to Auntie. I'll take the car. OK Then I'll book it for you now. I'll be able to pick up the car next Monday. Is it going to Mr. Feng's account or not? I take out a loan. No, I'll buy it for you. No, I can do it myself. Credit. Feng's is also a leading enterprise in Zhucheng Miss Feng actually paid off the loan to buy a car That's pathetic. Brother Jiu invited you today When the bus arrives, I will pick up Brother Jing Well, go for it. Hello I'm Mr. Feng's assistant The car that Miss Feng ordered just now Help me change the payment method. Change to full amount If he asks Just say it was a birthday present from Mr. Feng Sister, you are back. Xu Shao came today He left you a box here 7 years why did Brother Xingchi give me a birthday present? Is today your birthday? Are you busy first? Ah Xingzhi I can't accept the ring. Too expensive The relationship between us You can afford this gift. Xingchi brother We have a relationship now other than at home We don't have any other relationship. I have been with Uncle Feng We're back to talking about our marriage He said to think about it for a few days But I'm sure he'll agree. Because except for the Xu family You have no choice. I have been with Uncle Feng We're back to talking about our marriage He said to think about it for a few days But I'm sure he'll agree. Ah Wu has appeared since Fu Zijiu You have changed a lot Not as obedient as before But that's okay. I will teach you slowly in the future. Remember You can only be mine Why is that? Sister, what's the matter with you? Get up! Why doesn't anyone ever ask my opinion? Don't you have your own will? Am I just a doll that can be sewn at will? Don't I deserve a little respect? I don't know. What's up? Which one has no eyes to bully you? Brother Jiu heard that smoking can relieve worries Can you give me one? Does the child smoke any cigarettes? But I think the smoke on you smells pretty good I want to give it a try. You are used to it, and you have learned to smoke. You smoked 1 million Give me one. What's wrong? How dare you talk back to me Then I quit Then can you smoke the rest for me? Tell me, who bullied you? Just know that Nouliheng Go ahead. Brother Jiu will charge for you Forget it, it's alright Jiu Ge I won't accompany you to dinner tonight Xu Qingchi again aunt What's wrong with you? Is Feng Wu back? You are still pretending to be confused Why did you buy the same car as Auntie? Shouldn't you give me an explanation? Lao Feng Ah Wu must have heard rumors from people outside Just against me Never mind. As long as Wu likes it I took out a loan to buy a car with my own money I don't know what to explain to you. Your aunt took a fancy to this car some time ago You bought it as soon as you turned around. What do you mean? Do you think your aunt wants this Feng Jia to demonstrate? Dad didn't turn around Did you buy auntie a car of the same price? Why can't I buy the same car? What if I buy your aunt a car? How many years has your aunt worked so hard for this family? There is no credit and there is hard work You know how people out there are getting into trouble now With your aunt? They say that if you have a stepmother, you have a stepfather He was right. You Pombo I know Xiao Li said the wrong thing She has apologized to you. Don't bother anymore Look at what you've done. Your aunt? Keep persuading me Let me give you the company Really? What is Dad going to do? Give me the company You you you really want The company is the heart of my father and mother Here. Is there a problem? Ah Wu, your brother is a boy after all He wants to get married and have children when he grows up If aunt Didn't you persuade Dad to let him give me the company? Ah Wu Why so many years? You still can't change it. You've been paranoid since childhood Don't give up until you achieve your goal Isn't Mom Xu's lesson enough for your long memory? Why do you always bring up Mother Xu? I want you to remember the consequences of your willfulness You force me to compromise again and again about Xu's mother back down Now even the company wants me to hand it over Haven't you ever thought My mother. Are you also watching what you do from the sky? You rebellious beast I am rebellious Unlike Dad, Ning Yi ruined the face of the Feng family Sell his own daughter to the Xu family I promised the Xu family's marriage at a loss to you Don't you forget You still carry the life of the Xu family on your back This is what you owe them Lao Feng, don't be angry. Ah Wu has grown up Your words are useless Wait until he gets married Let Xingchi talk about him I just marry a cat and a dog casually Just give my life back to Mom Xu I will never marry Xu Xingchi You don't marry Xu Xingchi Do you want to cling to Fu Sijiu? Dream on. How can you get in the co-pilot? Anyway. I will never marry Xu Xingchi You will die of this heart. I will never allow you to control me for the rest of my life you Here is Fu Leifeng, who is a good person without leaving his name I have done as you said with the car. Bought my name Any other requirements? Hasn't he put down the Xu Xing Chi yet? In his heart Can't I compare to Xu Xingchi's finger? Hey brother talk OK Leave the contract here It has to be our little ninth master? Put these hundreds of thousands of contracts here without looking at them You are really Hello sunny day A clerk told me today that Ah Wu was in the bar OK, I see. A friend of mine who owns a bar said I saw Sister Lawu drinking there What! He didn't go back to the Feng family His family looks after him well If he misses anything Tore down his bar Beautiful woman lost love Why are you drinking alone here? Brother accompanies you to drink Sure, let's drink Me, get out of here Feng Xiaocao What are you doing? You look better than that big brother just now. You can drink with me Feng Xiaocao, what are you doing? My dad said he wants me to marry someone I don't like Live a lifetime I would rather not Even if I marry anyone, I don't want to marry him. Marry anyone You are promising Fengxiaocao You want to marry whoever you want. Marry anyone you want I can marry you You seem kind you What's wrong with your face? Where's the boss, get out of here Or I'll smash your store Did Lu Qingtian tell you? If something goes wrong with him My little ninth master, this is really none of my business. He came like this Feng Xiaocao, what's wrong with your face? Did I ever tell you? If others bully you, they will bully you back Who is it? Why are you being mean to me? It's okay if my dad bullies You dare to bully me too Could it be that Queen Feng still fought? than you It hurts so much, I want to tell Fu 49. Say you bully me Be good, okay? Otherwise, it won't look good tomorrow. Hurry up So what's going on? Hurry up and check it for me. I found out that Sister Awu came out of the Feng family 8 more prints on the face Maybe it was Feng Houhai Feng Houhai went to check what was the reason? He is bad he bullies me What are you looking at? Close your eyes. Ok ok ok I close you Hey Who are you? So pretty You look so good. It's like Forsyn Ancestor, can I take you back? No, I don't have a home. You still have me I'm always here. Are you Fu Sijiu? Only Fu Sijiu would say such a thing to me I am I am Fu Sijiu Here I come. Give me a hug Why is it so high? Can you be shorter? You look like fuchs It's like Foux. God, Sister Awu is too brave, right? It's too late. Put grass What are you doing? Brother, my head is so dizzy. Feng Xiaocao, are you not going to admit it? My uncle It's useless not to admit it Feng Xiaocao You kissed me first Don't try to default It's so hard Feng Huohai is really ruthless Don't go I'm not leaving I'm here with you In my dream, I also called Xu Qingchi's name Can't you just let her go? Feng Xiaocao, if you drink too much, sleep well Don't you dare talk nonsense again Be careful I throw you out Report or not I'm not your Xu Jingchi I'm sorry, Mom Xu, I'm sorry. Xu Ma Who is Xu Ma? Ah Wu kept talking about a Xu mother tonight You go and check if it has anything to do with the Xu family Let me know as soon as you find it. Hey, got it. The Xu mother you mentioned is Xu Xingchi's mother Your name is Zhang Youxian He and Wu's sister's mother are best friends She is also the godmother of Ah Wu's sister No wonder, if I'm right Xu Qingchi's mother must have passed away many years ago Yes and according to the information at the time She probably went out to find Sister Wu An accident happened What I finally know Why did Sister Awu submit to blood? There is a life between them Sister Awu She sees herself as a sinner Excuse me. Ah 5 If you hadn't run away from home My mom wouldn't be looking for you You killed her This is my mother's blood You remember You owe him your life forever I was wrong. I was wrong. Ah 5, don't be afraid There is a ninth brother Ah Wu Don't be afraid, Wu Go where there is light Go where there is light Where is the light? Ah Wu Jiu Ge I am here. I am here. It's nice to have you. Mom, I seem to have found the light Don't be afraid, Awu I will accompany you to face everything You won't be alone anymore Where is this? My head hurts. God What happened last night? Why is Nurse Fusijiu here? Why are my hands clutching his clothes? It's over. It's over. How can I face the support wine? If you don't stay now, you won't have a chance Dare to do Fu Xiaocao That's all you can do You will definitely not be able to live without it. I said what are you waiting for Waiting for the rabbit is not your personality I just want to wait for him to take the initiative to come to me But I didn't expect him to be a rascal Does he think I, Fu Cijiu, have a good temper? Is there anyone I think knows you? I know you're stingy Someone who can get half a cent off you There isn't one. Like Lin Duoduo last time I remember he took pictures of you and sent them to Moments Directly shut down their studio Then how dare he treat me like this? There you go. Ah Wu's sister has been steady and obedient these years He only does this when he faces you Doesn't that make you an exception? Do I look like a mean person? What do I need this exception for? His responsibility can't be placed on me Needless to say cheap You say yes. I mean this can be Is the result you want Didn't you notice? Sister Wu has been full of energy recently No longer as lifeless as before At your mercy. It's all your fault. Let me tell you something. But don't be in the midst of happiness and don't know the blessing. If Ah Wu sister put this lively energy Use it on Xu Xingchi Can you still be so calm? If the crow can't talk, don't talk Feng Xiaocao It's hot today Brother Jiu will send you ice cream How about setting the relationship by the way? Feng Xiaocao Is it a cold? I think someone is talking about you Drink some water! Can't wait long Your little ninth brother will come to you he I haven't figured out how to face him yet This is really good. I've been fine. No, it's not. You've been bored all these years Since I met Fosgio You're back to where you were before. If this was before Stop robbing your stepmother of a car I'll sell you and you won't say a word It's not as exaggerated as you say I just suddenly realized I don't owe them anything There's no need to be patient Yeah, you're right. You'd better think so There is nothing in this world that cannot be overcome The only person who can be trapped is yourself I see. Thank you. You don't have to thank me. You have to thank Brother Xie Xiaojiu He is the hero But I haven't figured out how to thank him yet Want me to say? Those who are recreated should be promised Just marry What are you talking about? I'm not that good Let him marry him I'm not talking nonsense. You asked Fu Sijiu to marry You can not only get rid of your father You can get rid of Xu Xingchi In his current capacity and abilities Even if the Feng and Xu families unite I can't make things difficult for him In that case You can still be free Isn't that the best of both worlds? Am I right? How can you do that? Ah Wu, you should ask your heart Do you like him or not? If you say you don't like him How can you rely on him so much? And let him into your world I seem to have really fallen in love with Fu Siqiu Yin Yin I If only you could know your own mind If you are with Fu Sijiu You can get rid of your dad And that Xu Xingchi Xingchi brother Hey, my dad doesn't know what's wrong You must let me marry him I'm mad at him Hey, you said he hated you so much at the time. This finally broke the engagement Why are you torturing you again? Oops want me to say He's just full So I'm going to break the engagement first Only then can I talk to Jiu Ge Don't worry about the ninth brother If you ask? Your ninth brother is amazing He will definitely take everything Well arranged Pick it up! Pick it up! little brother Feng Wu You clip it back for me Don't be angry. I'll clip you back I must not be angry. Is it okay? Tell me immediately where you are Hey, in my hometown Come quickly. Yin Yin, how can you side with him? Because I know you want him to pick you up Wait for me I'll pick you up right now. No more running around Do you know? Got it. No more running around Do you know? Oops ok Then I will wait for him here obediently. Wait for him to come and pick you up later. Let's communicate well. Express your heart. Come on, I believe in you. You deserve the best Go, go. Xingxing Chi Why are you here? I'm going out with Uncle and Aunt Feng on some errands I just want to take you back with me What should come has finally come I couldn't hide Xu Shaoawu There's something else. You go back first Awu Uncle Feng and Aunt Feng are still waiting for you in the car downstairs You don't want it. Too willful to break the hearts of uncle and aunt family What else is there to hate? The marriage contract must always be resolved I can't be with Fu Zijiu with an engagement Who are you, Ah Wu? Why do you say I'll go with you, Wu? It doesn't matter. Something. It is only clear if the parties are together. There we go. Wu is still sensible, let's go Don't worry, I'll take care of it. Uncle and aunt Coming, coming. Ah Wu, why did you come here these days? Your dad and I are worried sick Tell us where you are going in the future. Don't let others see it I think others can think whatever they like What does it have to do with me? I'm in a bad mood. Isn't it normal to go out for a walk? Who will stare at me all day long Ah Wu Talk nicely Your aunt is also for your own good. Your girl's house is not small anymore still open-mouthed wanton Ruined the reputation of the Feng family What's in it for you? Dad said it lightly When you slapped me before Why haven't you thought about the reputation of the Feng family? Remember that? uncle aunt Today is a big day Don't argue with Wu Yes, Wu Don't be angry. Today is a big day You can't quarrel. Happy event what happy event Hello? Where did it go? It's not bad here. What are we doing here? Oh silly girl Of course it's because of your marriage to Xingchi This is the engagement venue I chose for you It is the most elegant hotel in Zhucheng My Feng family marries a daughter Of course, we can't lose the face of the Feng family I don't want it. Ah Wu, don't make trouble It's your mother and my mother's wish that we get married Are you just destroying it like this? This marriage is an agreement between my mother and Xu's mother Can I disobey them? I don't want to I will not marry Mr. Feng Hello Mrs. Feng This is our most luxurious banquet hall Let me show you around. Take us to have a good look at my Feng family Of course, getting married is to be in the most elegant place You better give me a break Don't embarrass me in public If anything happens to me again I can't spare you. How much benefit did Uncle Feng take from the Xu family? This is known as marrying a daughter I don't know. I thought Ah Wu was your bargaining chip Jiu Ge What a coincidence! I'm here to accompany my fiancee to choose the engagement venue What are you doing here, fiancee? engagement venue Feng Xiaocao Why didn't anyone notify me of such a big thing? That's not true. Nine brother me You finally figure it out Only be engaged to me You can get back what your aunt left you. Don't you want your mother's stuff? Xiao Jiu Ye, wait for the marriage to be confirmed Let Xingchi personally send the invitation Now, our family has to go for a meal Jiuxian has a good relationship? This store was originally mine If Miss Feng likes it This banquet can also be given to Miss Feng Thank you for your kindness It's just that Ah Wu is more sensible He doesn't like to take advantage of others Thank you for taking care of our family, Wu. When the wedding date is set There must be grass in your house Don't you have anything to say? i OK Very good, it's really yours. He hugged me two days ago, kissed and hugged me again. Come and choose an engagement venue with another man now It was very good. My husband's fourth uncle fell into trouble Father and son wine Don't forget the debt you have left behind And what your mother left you get out of the way Father and son wine you stop What's up? Didn't you say you would always be by my side? You're going back now. Go find your fiance I don't have a fiance. I only have you Stop talking here. You kiss and hug me As a result, I will leave you Why take advantage of me again? you Didn't you provoke me first? I'll tell you what. I am a rich little ninth master Not a casual person You provoke me like this over and over again Do you want to give me an explanation? Honeycomb, please be patient. You are facing the bully of the port area, Fu Sijiu It's either what others say or Fu Sijiu I like you. Is this statement okay? OK Do you know what you're saying? I know you believe me. It wasn't my intention to be here on a sunny day that You mean you want to be my girlfriend? It's okay, after all, I'm so nice And so handsome Jiu Ge You have a bit of a conscience What is the service doing? how Is Xu Shao blind? Can't you see? Ah Wu It's time to go back with me Otherwise, my mother-in-law will be angry. Besides, have you forgotten our previous agreement? Lao Wang This is your mother's dying wish Mom must want me to be happy But I'm going to fix this marriage To be with the ninth brother Xu Xingchi, what do you think you are? Ah Wucai doesn't like it Hmph, it's up to Ah Wu to decide whether to see it or not Ah Wu Do you remember when our mothers shut up? Xu Qingchi, your mother's treasure Three sentences all day long can't be separated from your mother I'll go back with you. Feng Xiaocao Brother Qiu, wait for me. Wait until I get home to finish my business I'll go find you, okay? Some things always have to be solved It's no use running away Isn't that what you taught me? No matter what happens Remember to contact me. Ah Wu father and son nine sweet words Really good at coaxing little girls It's normal for you to be tricked by him I forbid you to speak of him Ah Wu, you need to know Only I am the most suitable person for you Xingchi brother You've never been short of girls all these years Where you are now In this way It's because I'm no longer a follower behind you You're not used to it. Stop delaying each other because of the engagement I believe Our mother will understand. Let go of me and let go of yourself No, Hu. I like you. I made a mistake before. You give me another chance. But I don't like you. Brother Xingzhi, I only have brother and sister feelings for you Ah Wu, you can dislike me. But you can only marry me. Don't you want to know How much did your mother leave for you? You know You only know Auntie left some property for you But what you don't know is Auntie left behind a 49% stake in Feng's Group These shares are enough for you to shake up the entire Feng family So, when is Dad going to give me the company? No wonder. Dad won't give me the inheritance my mom left behind Why are you telling me this? Whoever you marry now will be remembered by your uncle Only marry me So that you can get your shares back at the same time Not remembered by uncle Yo Who made our little ninth master unhappy? Look at this unhappy look Brother, can you say hello in advance when you come back? So that Sunny Day can pick you up You brat How long has it been? Not even a message Did you pry the corner or not? If you don't hear any more I can't stop it at home Yo Look at our little ninth master like this It seems to be going well. It doesn't matter who I am, of course. Oh really Whose daughter is it? I can tell you Now that it's settled I'll bring it back earlier for everyone to see. What's the hurry? In a few days. Take it home in a few days. Okay, what did you say? Just come back Xingchi, have you finished the invitation? Well, it's all done. It will be arranged to be sent to each family later. It will be your 25th birthday in a few days. Remember to dress up grandly Don't lose the face of our Feng family then birthday party Yes, uncle specially prepared a birthday party for you Since mom died You never gave me another birthday It's time for a birthday party I'm afraid it's not that simple What's your tone? You might as well just say Ah Wu, don't make uncle angry Uncle just wanted to surprise you It wasn't just a birthday party Or our engagement party? So you've already decided Pick the engagement venue just to inform me That's right, we're getting engaged in a few days Stay at home these days Don't go out in public anymore Lao Feng We are going to deliver these by ourselves. I've sorted it all out Take a look. Wu is back This is the birthday party Where is the word birthday? Phoenix Dance Pay attention to who you are talking to I told you before. I will not marry Xu Xingchi This is my marriage My Happiness Can you please respect me? Feng Wu, don't be too willful What your parents do to you is for your own good Marrying Xingchi is your best choice But I don't like him at all. Ok my patience is limited You are forced to marry If you have to marry Then you can marry Brother Xingchi Shut up, are you crazy? Don't marry Xingchi Still delusional about marrying the rich one That's right, I just want the wind Don't forget what your 25th birthday means Are you really going to willfully leave what your aunt left you? Give it all up? And You owe me You forgot I said I wouldn't marry Xu Xingchi This time I'm back Not only to cancel the daughter, but also I'm going to take everything my mom left me Ah Wu Ah Wu, stop making trouble Sister Qin has sent it out. It's sent out, you can take it back. Brother Xingzhi, I'm sorry I will make up for Xu's mother in other ways. But I must never marry someone I don't really love. bastard Lock him up for me You're not allowed out of this house until you're engaged Why are you shutting me down? Because I am your father It really gives you face, doesn't it? Wu, your father won't harm you Ah Wu, you forgot what you promised me before You owe the Xu family How could he possibly like you? Have you forgotten your mother's dying wish? Have you forgotten how my mother died? Does Xiaojiu like you now? Said I don't like you anymore Abandoned you What are you going to do? Toad wants to eat swan meat It's a shame to lose it home Have you forgotten how my mother died? Uh-huh. You are looking at the daughter of Zhucheng Feng's Group Feng Ru has an appointment with the Feng family of the Xu family in Zhucheng Yeah, but he already broke off the marriage. Not to mention how his family can help you It's just him, Feng Wu and Xu Xingchi are entangled You look like you're in a hurry. How can I deserve you? That's just another secret Not anymore. Feng Wu and Xu Xingchi have been childhood sweethearts since childhood Besieged him for ten years If you say separate, separate? Of course, I'm Fu Sijiu Feng Xiaocao How could you leave me alone and not choose Xu Xingchi? Jiu Ge Jiu Ge What's wrong? Sister Ah Wu, what's wrong with her? Give it Big brother is here too? What happened to Fang Xiaocao? Is this what you mean by breaking off the marriage? Invitations to other people's engagement parties have been delivered to their homes Really? Xiao Jiu, you have to keep being so stupid He Feng Wu was pregnant with Xu Xingchi's child Run up to you and say the child is yours You can recognize it with your eyes closed Don't touch me, Fu Sijiu's big brother Came two days ago Out of town Arranged several blind dates for him He's just playing with you Shut up, oops, Feng Are you crazy? Xiaoli, don't come here, don't come here That's not true. He must have been forced Little Jiu, you have to believe Wu doesn't like Xu Xingchi He told me himself that the person he likes is you He wants to be with you. But I don't know why. Engaged to someone who hurt him Then you tell me What is this? This must be his dad. Yes, his dad did it on his own Is that so? This engagement party is really not what he wants I made inquiries. After Awu's sister came home The number of bodyguards in Fengzhai has tripled I'm afraid there is indeed another shot. What does Feng Houhai want to do? Jiu Ge What is Xiaojiu doing? What to do I'm going to Feng's house You're going to see that Feng Wu again I want him to explain it himself Explained what If he is forced I'll grab him Stir up the Feng family and Xu family again and turn you upside down Check the Feng and Xu families in Zhucheng Yes, the more detailed the better. With Xiaojiu's character No matter how it ends Both of these have to shed a layer of skin. You are so funny Do you really think I would hurt Little Lux? Someone lock Xiaojin back into the room Let go of me Get out Brother Jiu is the best friend of Ah Wu's sister Xu Yin is looking for you Can Xiao Jiu Ye help Ah Wu? He got his wish and got engaged to his brother Xingchi I just what? Feng Xiaocao, are you there? Jiujiu brother Is this a dream? What, your hero? I didn't come to pick you up on colorful auspicious clouds Unrecognizable? Jiu Ge Jiu Ge What's wrong with your hand? Who hurt you? My ninth brother, can you hug me? What to hug You're getting engaged on your birthday What's the matter with me hugging you by an outsider? No no Except for you I don't marry anyone Okay, okay. Tell Brother Jiu what's going on Brother Jiu, take me away I don't want anything. I just want you Feng Xiaocao, I can take you away But you have to make things clear. After you and Xu Xingchi left that day So what happened? How is it? What's the situation with Sister Awu? Do you even need to ask? Look at him like a peacock opening the screen It must have turned out as he wanted Ah Wu was locked up by that bad old man in their house The engagement wasn't his idea at all I said that Sister Awu must have difficulties What are you going to do, Brother Jiu? Rush into Feng's house and snatch Sister Ah Wu out? Can you take me one? Don't worry, definitely bring it. Your own brother's Girlfriend was poached This is bearable If memory serves Your girlfriend was poached from someone else, right? So what? If you are dug by me, it is mine. It can't be poached by others How embarrassing is that co-pilot? big brother You are my good big brother. Hey Okay, okay. How old are you? Do you think you were still the king when you were a child? Wait What is this? Open it and see With their status as the Feng family and this pile of shit I really don't deserve you. But you're right about one thing. Since it's yours No one can take it away Otherwise, wouldn't our Fu family be embarrassed and thrown into the cities? It is. It is. Big brother is right What's going on here Since they are so shameless Don't blame me for making things worse for them Uncle Feng Did Deputy Si Jiu come to see Ah Wu? No, what's wrong, let's go Ah Wu, why are you here? Go back to your room It's windy. Are you worried that I will escape? It's not that I'm worried about you getting sick. Really? Ah Wu Could you please stop being so hostile towards me? This is my room. Get out Are you going? Brother Qiu I'll wait for you. Hello Congratulations congratulations Congratulations Congratulations. Thank you. Shi Shao has been checked in the wild No suspicious people were found No other anomalies were found I have sent my brothers to follow your request Check all entrances and exits It's peaceful today Ah Wei, look Fu Sijiu will not come at all The only one who really cares about you is me, right? Let go of me! Ah 5 You be good Xingzhi brother will definitely treat you well Everything is about you I'll give you everything, okay? Do you have any other plans? I tell you not to think about it Miss Xu Shao The engagement party is ready to begin Sir let you go in first Ah Wu Think of our mothers. After this year, we will be a family, everyone Thank you very much for your time. Come and join our beloved daughters Feng Wu and Jiaxu Xingchi's engagement party Ah Wu smiled Ah Wu, don't mess around everyone What are you doing, Feng Wu? My patience is limited You'd better not be on such an important occasion Keep me from getting off stage I see who dares to use Buddhism Fu Sijiu Xiaojiu Ye Jiu Ge We can't stop trash roll little brother I've wronged you these days. After that, everything is left to me OK Fu Sijiu, you are usually arrogant and domineering Today is my engagement party with Wu Bring someone over to provoke trouble Is it too much? This is Zhucheng Not your port city You know I'm afraid you won't make it I'm just here to pick a fight What can you do to me? Fu Sijiu, come and bewitch him I don't blame you anymore. And now you're provoking trouble at the engagement party Don't think that the Fu family has a great career My Feng family is afraid of you As the saying goes, it is better to destroy ten temples Don't ruin a marriage Little Jiu Ye, aren't you afraid of retribution? I have never liked Xu Xingchi I didn't even think about marrying him The person I like is Fu Sijiu It's you who want to separate me and Jiu Ge Fu, do you know what you're talking about? What's going on here? This is what my mother herself told me Xu Xingchen, how dare you say How did your mother die? Don't you know I remember hearing that before. Mrs. Xu seemed to have gone to the Feng family back then Runaway Feng Wucai was killed by gangsters Yes, yes, I remember too. But it seems that because the Feng and Xu families are closely related So there goes the whole thing. Fu Sijiu What the hell are you doing? How did Mrs. Xu die back then? It's because of Ah Wu Or because of his disappointing son? You can tell at a glance Xingchi is not It's not your fault. Feng Wuye ran away from home today Your mom went out because she was worried about her Not because of you It's because of Ah Wu Yes, not because of you. Xingchi, you have to be strong The whole thing has nothing to do with Miss Awu Is what you said true? Miss Wu My wife didn't know at all You also ran away from home that day I am incompetent I am cowardly Sir gave me money Send me back home So I didn't tell you the truth. Hurt you for so many years I'm sorry for you. Uncle Xue Xingchi brother Is what Uncle Li said true? So all these years You have always known about the death of Xu's mother Not because of me everyone Before, my daughter Feng Wu and I were both deceived by the Xu family Guilt over the years It is a lot of tolerance for the Xu family Now the truth comes out It was the Xu family who went too far Please bear witness The Hong family and the Xu family have never had anything to do with each other since then The little girl's engagement is over I'd like you all to come back today. I will come to apologize in person in the future Uncle Feng, Old Feng This is indeed a good thing our family did. Shut up Brother Qiu, what do you mean by that? Ah Wu, they can't bully you anymore Do you still know this person? Of course I do. He used to be our driver. But let me chase him away before he stole our money Just get to know each other Tell me what the truth was like back then The wife had an accident In fact, it was the young master, Mr. He, who did it and urgently needed to leave. The young master ran out Wife is worried Chase the young master out An accident that happened Come Home With Me Mr. Feng, please be polite to Wu This Ah Wu, our business is not over yet You owe Ah Wu more than that Ah Wu was the father who was blinded by Xu Jia before Made you suffer a lot Now the engagement with Xu Jia has been terminated I'll let you Aunt Li Give you a good clean up of the bedroom You go home. Dad? I'm back this time To get back what my mother left me Ah 5, I already know it all Mom left me 49% of the company Who told you that? How can your mother have so many? I have contacted Ah Wu's mother's lawyer Confirmed that it did leave a 49% stake in Ah Wu You still want to deny Before Ah Wu and the Xu family I know you're angry Who would you like to be with in the future? Dad will never stop Don't be angry anymore The company is not as easy to manage as you think Those shares are with Dad Dad will help you manage it well. Dad? Don't you think you're funny? What! That night, Brother Nine asked me what my plans were I hadn't made up my mind at the time Now that I think about it, it's really a joke, Brother Nine I killed Mrs. Xu I owe Brother Xingchi my life Because of this My father has been patient with the Xu family for so many years I am now But it will ruin the marriage contract made by Xu's mother and mother back then And leave with the shares Am I a white-eyed wolf? No, my mother, my heart is the softest How could it be a white-eyed wolf? I don't want to either. Is that so? But I'm really tired. My dad and brother Xingchi remind me every day I can't take it anymore. Then leave it to me. Ah Wu, as long as you think clearly Whether it is a marriage contract or shares Leave it to me I must break the engagement Things I like But the stock issue also made me think again You've all put the stake thing It's so clear What are you still pretending to be doing here? Okay, then it's business What business Mr. Feng, this is Mrs. Feng's will that year According to Mrs. Feng's arrangement that year 49% of Fung's shares After Miss Feng Wu's 20th birthday Give it back to him Feng Wu, do you really want to be so aggressive? Dad? My life is thin shallow love You can only plan for yourself you What do you want? Feng Honghai, I told You are not discussing this with you. But to inform you You'd better sign and hand over your shares otherwise What you have to face is Fujia Logically speaking Negotiation pays attention to first and foremost But I have a bad temper. If you are not sincere Let Awu not get what he wants Just ruin everything Anyway, companies that have gone bankrupt in the hands of rich families these years Not short of you Fung Group A fifty-nine-eight Ok pay Okay. I also signed the equity transfer agreement Is that okay? Thank you dad for making it happen All right. It's all sorted out. From now on you will be free Thank you nine brother Ah Wu, you got everything you wanted In the future, if you and Xiaojiu want to get married You are going to marry from your mother's family after all Dad, I won't be coming back After the share transfer process is completed I will find a lawyer Settlement of all the expenses in the Feng family over the years I'll give it back to you after converting it to cash Do you know what you are talking about? What I mean is... After dad, I Let's stop talking Thank you dad for raising me as an adult I wish you a long and healthy life. No 5 Don't do this to dad Brother Jiu, do you think I'm too cold? I still think you didn't make this decision sooner What! Ah Wu, did you know? Now there is light in your eyes You are no longer the bleak and cowardly you used to be Thank you, Brother Nine I have always had you by my side Without you I don't know how long I'm going to be confused Since I met you I just became myself again Okay, no more sensational words You have grown up I can't be a little crying bag anymore Do you know No more crying Jiu Ge He's back! I heard what happened to you today. You brought people to the engagement party of Feng and Xu's family He also got 49% of Feng Wu's shares Yeah, I'm exhausted. You are causing trouble for the family everywhere If you can't even protect your own woman Then isn't the title of my little ninth master in vain? Do you still want the face of the Fu family? You are the only one who is wrong. Okay. Since we talked about it Just treat people well Stop causing trouble everywhere Don't worry. If something happens, it's a happy event Fu Sijiu, what are you doing? I want to marry Feng Wu How can marriage be so hasty? You are not afraid to neglect other girls I'm serious. Family heirloom left by mom Bring it to me Hey, you said you are in such a hurry? Fu 49 You won't make the girl's belly bigger, will you? Brother, what are you talking about? I can see it You are still a chicken Okay, pure love God of War Now that you've made up your mind Then it's up to you. Get it done early Take the girl back to Harbor City to meet her father Do you understand? Don't worry. Arrange things for me Don't drop the chain for me. Otherwise don't blame me for turning my face Brother Jiu, why are you here? Why are you so surprised? I can't come! How can there be a new cake product I just happened to research? Why don't you try it? taste OK It tastes good. And much sweeter than before The previous one will be harder. I see. I like it sweeter now. I can't eat a little bitterness Is that right? Of course dessert shops eat sweet As a reward Come on, I'll take you somewhere Where to go? You'll know when you arrive. Brother Jiu, you have happened a lot recently. You don't have time to come either It's all over now I think you have a lot to say to Auntie Yeah, it's been a long time. Jiu Ge Thanks. Mom Xu, my engagement with Brother Xingchi has been annulled I have no fate with him But I believe He will definitely meet someone better and more suitable in the future Mom? I'm here to see you. I've been living like a coward all these years Forbear it I thought I wouldn't be bullied I often come to you to cry It must have worried you a lot. Fortunately, I met Fu Sijiu He taught me a lot. I'm that happy creature again now Mom, I want to introduce you to someone My Boyfriend Fu Sijiao aunt Although we have never met But my feelings for Wu I have been in love with her for a long time I hope you can give her to me, don't worry. I will love him more than I love myself Make his day happy. Happy life Mom, don't worry. Qiao is very nice to me I will be happy Ah Wu I've been waiting for this day for a long time In the last decade I can only follow you silently from behind But now I can finally be with you I am already satisfied But my selfishness still wants to be with you forever In front of my mother today I promise you. I will love you with my whole life You can satisfy my confidence Let me accompany you through the days ahead? I would. It's okay if you don't want to. Then can you tell me I do? Yin Yin What are you doing here? Of course, it was Xiao Jiu's arrangement So he says. He wants to propose to you in front of your most important person So we've been waiting here all morning Although it is a bit strange to propose in a cemetery But Jiu Ge's heart for you is still worthy of recognition If you can't speak, shut up for me Where is it weird? It's not weird, I'm very touched. Thank you nine brother Xiaojiu Ye You proposed to him in front of your aunt. Be sure to treat him well But you must not go back on it. Don't worry. I will definitely be nice to us, Wu