- Is one degree of warming, How about two? Could 1 1/2 or two degrees of warming from pre-industrial levels mean doomsday or game over? Seems kind of extreme, but we know that the as the climate warms because we can already see And there are some pretty amazing models that predict what the with changes set in motion So who's gonna be affected? Where will we feel the effects first? And how can such a small change The answer lies in but when will we reach them? - In the early 2000s, the kind of general maybe we're at risk of tipping points at, say four degrees C of global warming, where now we just publishing a study which essentially says exceeding 1 1/2 degrees about pre-industrial risks, multiple climate tipping points. - And that's very close of about 1.1 degrees of warming. So let's find out what if we hit six of the 15 identified by the International First, we'll explain how changes that could be set in motion very soon would fundamentally change our world. And stay with us until the end when we see just what if they tip. (gentle music) Imagine a chair sitting Adding a small tilt won't change much, but if our director is precariously balanced, and adds just a tiny degree more lean, the chair reaches its tipping point and suddenly falls until it And this is essentially what's happening to our planet's climate. Many of our planets systems to sudden potentially irreversible change. We'll begin our journey all which is warming about than the rest of the planet. This is because as global warming melts the reflective white sea ice, more and more of the dark which absorbs energy from the sun further warming the region. That gets us to our first tipping point. (suspenseful music) - We're seeing accelerating 'cause of that extra Arctic heating. - It's not just darker water As Greenland's ice melts, it exposes land which heats up faster than the more reflective speeding up the melt by 60%, according to one recent study. Some of this is already happening. - We're confident that can have a tipping point of where the melt and becomes irreversible. That could be close. - Like, very close. Tim recently published a study saying that the irreversible threshold could be just 1.5 degrees. - Certainly the ice melts and and has been for several decades now. And then the melt water either side into the North Atlantic Ocean that poses a risk for what's called the great overturning circulation (suspenseful music) - This is commonly It's essentially a giant flow of water that acts like a global conveyor belt, bringing heat from the all the way up north to Greenland. - Under normal service, and salty enough, and dense enough to fall from the very top of the ocean all the way to the bottom in a process we call deep convection in the seas either side of Greenland. But if you add fresh water pouring off the Greenland ice sheet, and you make the surface less prone to sinking to And this is certainly a factor contributing to some observed weakening of this great overturning - Some calculations show that the AMOC has already weakened by around and scientists fear it could which would have extreme impacts on global climate as a whole. But even a partial collapse into a mini ice age, and raise sea levels along the Northeast by 20 or 30 centimeters. And models show that that surrounds the earth would likely shift further south. (suspenseful music) - Well, that means around the tropics, kinda near the Atlantic and South America, the but also around the planet in India. - Farmers around the world count on these reliable Changing their timing, would disrupt the livelihoods and complicate global food supplies as agriculture has to relocate and productivity is decreased. This could cause a large climate migration and weaken the food supply - Disrupting the rainfall over North and South America could be a big risk factor which is definitely at increasing length and in what otherwise we think of as the perennially rainy rain forest. (upbeat music) - In fact, the Amazon experienced three one in a hundred year These severe droughts And for the first time in a large portion of it flipped to a net carbon source of greenhouse gas. - So if this monsoon disruption amounts to further that's the thing that could risk a more widespread dieback that then becomes self-propelling because the Amazon back to the atmosphere.. And you take the trees away that tends to take more trees Well, we don't want that to 'cause we don't wanna lose of diverse life under - Okay, that's not great, but now let's head back to - If the Atlantic leaving heat behind in the Southern Ocean and heating up of the Southern Ocean is the biggest threat factor (upbeat music) - And as we've covered we know that the West Antarctic Ice Sheet is already the stabilizing and could be close to a tipping point without added warming of a weakened AMOC. - And yeah, if you heat the ocean up, that's the big threat factor the loss of that ice sheet, but also a threat to the bigger You start to trigger a that causes the glaciers so it becomes self-propelling. So that's a lot of bad news, isn't it? - Well, yes Tim. Yes, it is. So what's next? - The permafrost is soaring Not least because the whole Arctic is warming at an accelerating rate, and the permafrost is important because it's a really big - Really quickly, permafrost is land and has been for a long time. When it's frozen, there's no tiny bugs to eat the organic matter it contains. So the massive stores of carbon are safe. - As you start to thaw it, well, you start to release that carbon because bugs are basically going to work. They might be the kind of bugs that turn some of that which is a far more potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. That meanwhile other bugs are turning it straight to carbon dioxide, both of those things are adding to warming. But on top of that, that's coming out of the deep freeze, they release heat, just like tummies release That releasing of heat can thaw more of the permafrost giving them even more food to eat to generate even more heat, to thaw even more permafrost. And that means a true tipping point of sort of self-propelling breakdown. - And to put that into context, we're talking about hundreds of billions of tons of carbon dioxide and methane that could be released which would add measurably - By 0.1, 2, 3 two of a degree C and adding to the overall risk and adding to the likelihood of tipping some of those other systems, - We're clearly talking of the world here, and there's one tipping point that has likely already been reached. (suspenseful music) There's still lots of living coral, but it's being bleached so that it may never exist just a decade ago. So I asked Baratunde Thurston from &quot;American Outdoors: Understory,&quot; what swimming over a reef is like and what the loss of - I felt like I was flying across this underwater mountain range, but unlike any mountains I'd ever seen. It was like mountains made of hyper colors and there were fish flying around too. And they were saying what's And the idea that they that all of that life would be dead, that all those colors I'm really, really sad about the prospect that we will lose a piece of ourselves when we lose these coral reefs. - It takes a while for the consequences of to fully unfold. It can happen a lot as we've seen with iconic bleaching events across the Great Barrier - So what will the if we reach these tipping points? Well, it's pretty dramatic. With melting eyes from the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets, Tim says we're already of sea level rise, which will essentially redraw and displace about a billion people. The AMOC collapse is fascinating. A total collapse could of a mini ice age in parts of Europe, as well as significant sea level rise along the Northern seaboard of the U.S. Amazon dieback would turn much into a very different ecosystem, potentially grassland or even drier. And while Greenland ice melt would cause massive sea locally, there will be more as the ice exposes more land. As melting continues, places like Siberia and that currently have could see larger and more But in the meantime, we'll have some and of course, a lot of greenhouse gases - This has got profound implications for the kind of every other living thing and the future trajectory of evolution. So it's a hell of a legacy - But this isn't written in stone, and there's still time to stave Still we know some adaption and Tim has an idea for of those tipping points - We know now, even just we can see systems losing stability before they hit a tipping point. So if we have an effective tipping point early warning system that's telling us about some of the most impactful biggest risks that are coming, in simple terms, forewarned is forearmed. I mean, we can use our resources even for the unavoidable stuff. - There are examples already tornadoes, hurricanes, and even wildfires, but does a planet scale I'd love to hear from you. What would it take for us to make the changes needed to stop warming at 1.5 or two degrees? And remember that even though we're talking about, there's still so much beauty Just think of all the wonderful corals that are still thriving. (gentle music) Okay, outdoorsy people, you're going to love the &quot;American Outdoors: Understory&quot; From episodes on surfing scientists combating climate change, to the scorched desolate this show explores our passionate with our natural world. Check out the link in the description and tell them &quot;Weathered&quot; it sent you. (gentle music)