Recently I have been to a flea market where An old school radio at least 50 years old. Now truth be told I have been looking for could sit right on my fridge. Only problem is that I am not the biggest of course I bought myself the old vintage And yes while time definitely took its toll in combination with metal highlights and even But of course it was never my intention to the radio. My idea instead was to create a new electronics radio livestreams, but should also feature through a touchscreen LCD. Is all of that possible and can you easily Well, we will find out in this video! Let's get started This video is sponsored by Onshape which is for my touchscreen later on. And if you want to design your own mechanical Onshape is free to use for everyone. But of course if you are a business who needs or built in PDM then there are also special Now using the software is pretty straightforward it also comes with all the features you could And since it is running in your browser you it. So If I peaked your interest then head over click the link in the video description. Now before getting to the electronics stuff enclosure and make it all look good. For that I firstly removed the big metal part the electronics parts were mounted to. At this point I of course had to take a closer variable capacitor before then removing the all of the old electronics components. And as soon as that was done, I cleaned the used to scrub the radio enclosure on the inside And after then removing the Grundig lettering, was not so sure about and that was using sandpaper I did this so that my favourite wood stain layers of it, I have to say that this was And after then once again using sandpaper it all back together, I think there was already The only thing left that didn't look so good need to replicate it, is a 3mm thick sheet After clamping the old plate to it, I used the ventilation holes for not only better Then I simply used a handsaw to cut out my MDF is that you can use a wide variety of soft material to work with. But anyway after then drilling all the holes, continued with this AC socket with integrated As you would imagine this socket later delivers to power all of the electronics and thus I which I did by simply marking the shape of grinder to create the fitting cut out. After then also drilling mounting holes for the radio and closed it all up the with backplate the backplate as well. And the rest was pretty self explanatory and the back plate with the same wood stain as combination with the potentiometers all back back together. And just like that the mechanical part of good which means it was finally time to move of three big segments: Bluetooth Music, WiFi Let's start off with Bluetooth and WiFi Music that can do both and that is the ESP32. And luckily for me there exists a popular but sadly this library didn't work at all Now I was able to connect to the microcontroller didn't feel like outputting any audio information. Of course I tried different settings in the but after wasting way too much time and not Bluetooth function. But on the positive side the WiFi radio function a charm. Once again an already existing library does our WiFi information as well as the radio on the website of the radio station. All in all I wanted to change between these viewers out there please do not judge me here. Now to easily change between them I defined added some simple lines of code whose job station as soon as the corresponding pin gets And the last thing to note here in the code outputting the audio signal. But unlike the analogue audio signal you are output a digital audio signal consisting of to convert it back to analogue so that we I know it sounds a bit complicated but you I2S to learn more. Anyway to drive my speakers sufficiently I research on I2S amps, I could not find a fitting be able to do the trick though. So long story short I created a custom PCB function correctly. Yes, failing is also part of engineering and much time; I simply went with another solution The first one is an I2S Amp that connects to an analogue one. And the second board is simply a 20W Class loud speaker and best of all you can use a fine adjust the volume level. And in case you are asking yourself here, inside the radio as well because it actually And I would love to present a sound demo here for broadcasting music that I am not allowed OK; with that out of the way most of the electronics touchscreen that could interact with the input And for that I got myself this STM32 DISCO an 800x480 pixel Touchscreen LCD but also can use. So with the help of the software TouchGFX interface consisting of toggle buttons for a selected and non selected state/image. And after then filling them up with a bit to the board you can see that my touchscreen than an hour. And the last thing to do now was to get the For that I simply imported my code in the GPIOs as outputs and had to write a couple them individually turn on or off. And I know that this step might seem a bit then feel free to check out the video description But anyway after then uploading this final to react accordingly which means it was time with the help of Onshape, 3D print it all, pins, connect that to the ESP, for which I all the mandatory components on it, and ultimately And according to my final wiring diagram only were not really hard to find and also pretty So to finish this project, I pretty much only to my diagram which also includes the mains that working with mains voltage should only With that being said all that was left for closing everything up and just like that my And I got to say I am really satisfied with an expensive project to pull off. I hope you enjoyed it and maybe got inspired If so consider supporting me through Patreon Don't forget to like, share, subscribe and Stay creative and I will see you next time.