What is The Four Noble Truths? Chapter 1: The Truth About Suffering! Have you ever felt as though you were searching yet keenly aware of its absence? This although not everyone takes the time Why do we still feel dissatisfied, even when we happy even if we have a beautiful home, a car, the rest. We certainly won't be content when we we think, 'Well, if I had the best of everything, There remains an emptiness, an indescribable and deeper than what money can buy or were content, we wouldn't question things In Buddhism, there's a concept that describes translated as suffering, but it goes beyond just and the imperfection of life. It's an inevitable Chapter1. What is the Essence of Buddhism? The Buddha once said: Both I and you have had because we have not found and comprehended the the Truth of Suffering (Dukkha), the Truth the Truth of the Cessation of Suffering the Cessation of Suffering (Magga). The most fundamental and important doctrine FOUR NOBLE TRUTHS, AND THE NOBLE EIGHTFOLD PATH. schools of Early Buddhism as well as Mahayana explored What is Dependent Origination? Today, which is the Four Noble Truths, meaning the four as the Four Noble Truths or the Four Holy Truths. means Noble Truth or Holy Truth. The word arya consists of the word for speech, and the word for Four Noble Truths (Catvary Aryasatya) are four Four Noble Truths were the first formal teaching still recorded today. And we will see, these are THE FIRST SERMON After attaining enlightenment under the Bodhi that the practice was not aimed at liberation all people and other sentient beings. The Buddha several weeks, to experience the state of At the same time, he also considered including his parents, relatives, and those who the Buddha was in the village of Uruvela, and children. He shared his realizations with The first formal sermon he gave was in a grove (Benares). He taught it to his five former the Buddha wanted to meet his two former teachers. had taught him about the four jhanas and the four the state of Arahant. However, after inquiring, so he decided to seek out the five friends Previously, when they saw him abandon the ascetic they were disappointed. They thought he had given help them, he crossed the river to the north to his five former friends did not want to meet why is he coming here now?&quot; Therefore, they when they saw his demeanor and aura as he entered, they could not continue to be indifferent. greet him warmly. One fetched water for him to another took his cloak, and everyone &quot;Friends, I will teach you the path to &quot;Siddhartha, how can you teach us your spiritual quest?&quot; The Buddha replied: you.&quot; The others asked again to be sure if and the Buddha said: well. Have I ever lied to you?&quot; - &quot;No, &quot;Have I ever claimed to be enlightened I am enlightened, and I will teach you.&quot; knelt down, ready to listen to the Buddha. discussing the Four Noble Truths, recorded the Setting in Motion of the Wheel of Dharma. and turning the wheel of dharma means to start of dharma was always there, but it needed like the act of grabbing the wheel of dharma and the wheel of dharma has continued to turn. motion. Dhamma Chakra Pravartana means FOUR TRUTHS This sutra exists in many versions, in Chinese versions is the Buddha Speaks of sutra number 110 in the Taisho Tripitaka. Dharmacakrapravartana (Pravartana meaning turning, sutra discusses four mysterious truths, four noble Truths. In this Sutra, the Buddha talks about four suffering. There is the cessation of suffering. The Emperor of Suffering, the the Noble Truth of Cessation, the Noble Truth The Truth of Suffering (Dukkha) is the (Dukkha, which means 'inability dissatisfied, suffering or affliction, broadly The Noble Truth of the Origin (i.e. gathering the physical and mental foods that suffering. That is the second truth that The third truth is the Noble Truth of the elimination of the causes And the fourth truth is the Noble Truth. Dao the destruction of the causes of suffering Chapter 2. The First Truth: Whether Buddhas appear or not, it is still something immutable from ancient not the creator or originator of this truth. That is just the one who discovered and realized that The first truth is the Truth of Suffering (dukkha translate into any other language. People often However, suffering or affliction can only Relatively complete, accurate and complete about All these physiological changes in illness, old age, and death are dukkha. states such as love, hate, resentment, sadness, In an abstract, philosophical sense, unsatisfactory, unsatisfactory, difficult kha means to endure). In broad terms, it The Essence of the Buddha's So, what is the Truth of Suffering? preached in the Dhammacakkappavattana Birth is suffering, aging is suffering, not getting what one wants is suffering, separation from what one loves is Aggregates subject to clinging are suffering. Eight Sufferings, including all eight mentioned passage points out the SEVEN SUFFERINGS in the which is the presence of suffering in the Chaptersummarizes the Five Aggregates are SEEING THE TRUTH OF SUFFERING In this world, except for those who have by the Tathagata, virtually everyone wealth, intelligence, ethnicity, or religion, Everyone born into this world whether living for a few years or several decades. much sorrow, and even greater danger.&quot; and with aging comes frequent pain, slow movement, and no one is exempt from this suffering. stated the truth, &quot;whoever thinks this body everyone feels the presence of suffering. and the approach of death is a terrifying Humans always long for material and spiritual gentle touch, so they seek here and there. suffering arises; when achieved, they cling to nature leads to decay, destruction, loss, and getting what one desires, and no one is exempt. phenomena, people, information...) which is a universal truth of human life, known Love and separation bring suffering of separation from what one loves. a multidimensional, comprehensive view of excluding none, whether a powerful president, a beggar, a person with disabilities or of beings are equal in suffering (except for the see suffering unilaterally, perceiving only the while those who are wealthy, successful, KNOWING THE TRUTH OF SUFFERING: THAT This means clinging to the Five Aggregates to suffering. Specifically, ignorance, Feeling, Perception, Mental Formations, or will cause suffering to arise, not that the Five SUFFERING is conditionally arisen, and THE PATH in the twelve links of dependent origination: there is Craving; due to Craving, there is due to Becoming, there is Birth, Aging, Illness, CONTACT - FEELING - CRAVING - If described in full detail, the suffering is the path of the Eight CONTACT - &lt; Feeling - Perception &gt; - Wrong with Wrong Views - Greed, Hatred, Delusion - - Unwholesome Mental Formation Wrong Livelihood - Birth, Aging, Illness, Death, In this path of the Eight Wrong Practices, Clinging to the Five Aggregates as Mine, as Me, as SUFFERING arises on the path so suffering belongs to the realm of the world as worldly beings understand. phenomenon, has the nature of IMPERMANENCE, meaning there is no SELF as the owner or possessor In the Samyutta Nikaya, the issue of or non-self was clearly addressed through a The Brahmin asked: Is suffering caused by is there a Mr. A who is the owner and creator of suffering that he has created from the past?) (Meaning, due to not truly understanding that non-self (anatta), worldly beings fail to see ceasing processes of the Five Aggregates, serving another set as 'B', but not implying the existence past to the present and future as the owner, bearer of the suffering. Such understanding The Brahmin then asked: Is suffering then caused suffering as punishment from God for the sins spiritual world punishing their descendants, the son thirsts,&quot; or &quot;the sins of the The Buddha replied: Not so, The Brahmin continued: So, there is no suffering? I HAVE SEEN SUFFERING, I KNOW SUFFERING. The Buddha replied: Suffering (Meaning, suffering is a conditionally arisen and Object leading to the arising according hence it is impermanent, not permanent, not Materialism (Eternalism) conceives, nor is spiritual world as Idealism (Annihilationism) meaning there is no one, no creator, no &quot;I&quot;, which is the meaning of non-self (anatta).) OF SUFFERING, SUFFERING OF CHANGE, AND For instance, illness as suffering Due to the lack of correct understanding non-self pleasant feeling, one delights in as me, wanting it to last forever. suffering arises as the state of health, the lamentation, pain, distress, and despair. This pertaining to the mind and not the external what one wants. When the pleasant feeling is clinging to the feeling aggregate) is replaced with this feeling of suffering arises, which is This suffering is called it is mental, not external. When in such thoughts of seeking, and hopes of curing pain, distress, and despair arise. This suffering due to clinging to health, clinging to death as clinging to the formations aggregate), physical suffering of suffering, and Another Example: A grandmother, due to Mental Formations, and Consciousness of her lamentation, pain, distress, and despair when because she does not cling to the Form, and Consciousness of the neighbor's child as in an accident does not cause her sorrow, A young man, although acquainted does not have the thought of clinging, thinking as Me, so he does not feel happy when they are he falls in love with and marries the girl, her parents and siblings as Mine, as Me, and suffer in their suffering... In summary, the Chapter3. Triple Turning - Twelve Aspects (3 Each truth has three propositions, thus the Theravada tradition, attaining the state the Four Noble Truths with three propositions to have realized the truth. The first is recognition, meaning recognizing want to help a friend, you say, &quot;This is truly of a doctor is to let the patient know they illness for the doctor to be able to cooperate. nowhere. It requires knowledge, experience, and to recognize their true suffering. The second action is understanding, saying: This understand means to comprehend thoroughly. Knowing the nature of the disease clearly. What are the disease manifest in the morning? At noon? In the This is a full understanding of suffering. Having This is the second action that turns the wheel PROPOSITION 3: REALIZATION The third is realization, which is been fully understood. Here, realization means the suffering. The first turn leads to the In summary, regarding the first truth, one The first stage of practice is recognition. desire to understand, to transform. And the characteristics of the pain and For the second truth, the origin of suffering, practice of recognizing the immediate and Contemplation is needed to see the contributing one can contemplate more clearly. This is the I drink that, my ears hear this sound, my eyes so now I have this disease, this pain, and The second, the encouragement to turn, is the causes. I know my body is sick and in pain slept that way, worked this way. Now I must stop living that daily life in such a which is the encouragement to turn of the second one will never be able to eliminate suffering. The be very strong. One must be determined to end it. realization that this origin has been eliminated. absence of suffering, i.e., happiness, which we did not bear the suffering there are people who do not bear this suffering. the condition of liberation, peace, happiness. If capability to eliminate suffering. A person with is the first truth. Then acknowledging the reason Acknowledging that there is a state of not having and will experience in the future if one undergoes who do not have a headache, is the third needs to be realized, needs to be actualized. I want to live in a state of peace like you, that is the encouragement to turn. And the third, being eradicated has been experienced. Here, I And the path also involves three turns. The method for the cessation of suffering. Confirming and method help us escape suffering and achieve to be practiced, which is the encouragement to know that only through practice can transformation behalf; we must practice ourselves. If we want to feet. The third is the realization of the path. has been realized, the origin has been eliminated, In the Buddha's first sermon, we see that the Not praying to any divine being for happiness our own feet on the path towards the cessation actions, multiplied by four truths, making twelve. The Buddha told his five disciples: &quot;Monks, in the of suffering, the origin, the cessation, and the But now, having fully understood the aspect of I have recognized the origin, I have eliminated realized cessation. I have recognized the path, am fully enlightened.&quot; This is a statement in the &quot;Monks, because I can see by direct knowledge four truths, this seeing and this realization before all the deities, all the demons, all the that I have eradicated all defilements and full enlightenment.&quot; This statement is also in initially, the five disciples did not believe had to believe that the Buddha was enlightened four noble truths. Not by intellectual power, because he had gone through the triple turning, &quot;Monks, before I truly realized the three I never claimed that I was fully enlightened. But and twelve aspects of the four truths, I declare Truly realizing is a phrase in the Sutra, like power, but knowing by experience, knowing by THE FOUR NOBLE TRUTHS AS A LIFELONG INQUIRY We apply the Four Noble Truths to our into the mundane aspects of life, down to the these truths, we can examine our attachments for (the Truth of Cessation), we can perceive the the Noble Eightfold Path until we achieve insight. the practitioner will realize the path and attain propositions, twelve direct understandings - these very straightforward. They are tools to help us In the Buddhist world, many Buddhists Noble Truths. Some say, &quot;Oh, the Four Noble as basic doctrine: &quot;That's only for beginners, They then chase after complex theories and mysterious Dharma gate. The Four Noble Truths understanding the Four Noble Truths, the Triple and 12 Direct Understandings) to become move on to a higher realm. The Four Noble a constant vigilance because they provide the