- Hey y'all. (Paula laughing) You know what, I am fixed, did you just speak to me, Aunt Peggy? (Paula laughing) I'm fixing to make the best pie. I think it's like my favorite pie. It has become my favorite pie. And I'm so sorry because my friend, for years and years, we she was here one night and, they came for dinner. - [Eddie] She came for - Yeah, a mini class reunion, 'cause Seaburn was in She was supposed to bring a pie, but she didn't bring it - [Eddie] She made it, yes, she made it while she was here. - So I said, you can't come 'cause you told me you was bringing it. So I want it. So she said, oh my gosh, well, I said, well, I don't think so. (Paula laughing) I think we can, rush it up a little bit. Her name is Patty Davis, and oh gosh, we go back a real long ways. And two of our grandchildren are here. They're supposed to be over And my son Anthony, and my cousin George, The one in the green shirt. So who's gonna help me make this pie? I think nobody. - [Eddie] You might have better luck if you, say who's gonna help eat it? - You've got it right, Eddie. This pie is, like I said, it's just incredible. And I've never tasted anything like it. And she said, well, Paula, there is my baby girl, come over here. Ice cream, we scream for ice cream, right? They're not screaming for pie right now, they're screaming for ice cream. Maddie May, tell everybody, hey, baby. Let them see how pretty you are. (Paula laughing) Let them see how pretty you are, okay? (Paula laughing) And I love those glasses. I wish you'd show everybody your glasses. They're so pretty on you. So anyway, back to this pie, Patty Davis, Patty and Phil Davis. So we made the pie, and I rushed up the process, you know, by putting it in the freezer, and anyway, we ate it and it was, it was delicious. So I asked Patty if she would and share this pie recipe with everybody. So we planned it and we had, we, canceled like twice, didn't we, Eddie? - [Eddie] I think so, yeah. - Yeah, and now we've gotten And, so I said, dadgummit, we're having a hard time, so, I'm just going to show because with Thanksgiving coming, you are gonna want this on So few ingredients. I've got three egg whites and I'm gonna beat them And then I'm gonna add one and one cup of sugar. So, here we go. (mixer buzzing) You know what? I think that's the most perfect beaten egg whites I think I've ever seen. - What are you, what are you making? - I'm making Patty Pie. I call it Patty Pie after my and, I was asking Benny earlier, don't lemme knock that off now. We're gonna need a spatula. Do you know what that says? - It's in cursive. - I know. Hey y'all. - Oh. I know it said y'all at the bottom- - Yeah. - I couldn't figure out the top of it. - All right, now you're gonna need to, be careful, be careful, don't make Grammy have a heart attack. (Paula laughing) What you doing Madison? Alright baby, stir that in. That's a teaspoon of baking powder, and just put it right in there. And we're gonna fold that in, along, thank you baby, - [Boy] That's a lot of sugar. - [Paula] It is. Alright, so I just need that's how you fold, okay? Fold, yes, that's right, that's right. You go down and back up, down and back up. So I asked Bennett a do girls chase you at school? He said, yes ma'am. I said, well, what do you do? Tell them what you do. - I run. - Well, you better get because they gonna be after you, 'cause you're so cute. You are so, so cute. Oh, you were standing on my cord. Alright honey, now, we are gonna, give me just, make sure that all got in there good. You know what you smell like? - What? - You smell like a boy. (Paula laughing) - I was out there fishing for awhile. - You were out there what a little boy smells Pour it in, and stir that up. Stir it up, stir it up. All right, we need some nuts. And your ice cream slowly - I like it like that. - Oh you do, well I'm how about that? Now, Patty uses pecans, but I'm gonna use walnut. I just love, I love, love walnuts. - Me too, sometimes at school, I found, we have a walnut tree at school. - Are you kidding? - Yeah, it's only on recess, and sometimes me and my friends and like we throw them against the tree so we can eat them. - Well is it pecan tree or walnut tree? - Walnut tree. (Paula pounding walnuts) - Okay, well I love walnuts, so I'm just gonna chop And now I'm gonna reach in here and I'm gonna measure you out, one cup of nuts. Stir it in, stir it in. All right now, the one thing, Patty, oh, oh- - No, you're fine baby. I just gotta get the stuff. The one thing Patty did not tell me about this, is you really because it will stick bad. You remember Eddie? - How hard it was to get out? I thought I was gonna have to get it out. (Paula laughing) All right, so we just gonna spray that. And I'm using the spray. (can spraying) Some flour we need as well, cause, okay, that's it, baby. You did a fine job. A fine job. What kind of grades do - Uhhh. - You know what I was about to forget? A teaspoon of vanilla. Do you make all A's? - Kinda. - [Paula] I knew you did. Something told me that - I don't get to see my grades. - [Paula] You don't get to see them? - Well, she gives us to them, but she like, like writes our grades on a sheet of papers and- - Stir that in, baby, please. - So, I don't get to see my grades, so, I, but whenever I'm So I'm just hoping I get A's. (Paula laughing) - I know you're so smart, baby. I'll take that, 'cause our whites are So we gonna quickly and we're gonna bake this at, gosh, I can't remember I have to look back on the recipe, but y'all make sure, you've gotta give DeeDee this recipe. Tell her about this pie that you made, this wonderful pie, okay? So we're just gonna spread and it's gonna kind of rise up. And after we take it out of we gonna mash it down, so it'll be flat because Yum! - Didn't you need the recipe? - I do. I want, and I want you your other grandmama, and tell her about this and you wanna teach - But I forgot how to. - Oh no, I'll write it down for you. Okay baby, come get your ice cream cone please. There you go, just the way you like it. You can eat it over the bowl 'cause you done bit the bottom out. So it's gonna drip. Okay, we're gonna put this in a three 50 degrees oven for 25 minutes. We're gonna let it cool and And then the filling is just plain, fresh, whipped, sugared whipped cream. Okay, y'all, this is and Patty told me to mash it down, and we're gonna have to You know what this reminds me, Eddie, this part of this pie? - [Eddie] Pavlova? - [Paula] No, it, what's that? - [Eddie] It's a like a meringue, cake. - No, this, reminds me of the Chewy's. - [Eddie] Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - [Paula] That I used to make. Tastes just like the Chewy's, - [Eddie] Like the date, - Yeah. My Aunt Glennus gave me a recipe and she called them Chews. So, this is gonna have but in the meantime I'm gonna be, uh-oh well I forgot to wash my beaters. I'm gonna beat up one cup of heavy cream, and Patty said to make And normally for one I'd use a fourth of a cup of sugar. But since she said do I'm gonna do a third of a cup of sugar. I'm gonna beat that and then I'm just gonna have until this gets ready for it. So, I won't be able to until tomorrow. We need vanilla. Here we go. (mixer whirring) All I'm gonna do, all I'm gonna do is pile And then one thing that Patty didn't do, I sprinkled a few of the chopped nut. I chopped the nuts, whether I'm using a walnut or a pecan, I chop them and just so it'll give people an (mixer whirring) Y'all we as full as tick. Michael, would you cut down We just got through eating. Oh my goodness. But, you know, we're all still ready for pie. We're all still ready for Patty Pie. And this is all we did, y'all, just put that sweetened whipped And I think I just whipped up maybe a cup, but, might wanna whip up a Yeah, I shoulda. I shoulda done some more. Yeah, 'cause last time I've and I think I used two cups. - [Eddie] I wanna say she - But you know what? I can easy make some more, and add to it. Yeah, 'cause last time and I covered the whole thing in nuts. - [Eddie] Look who's ready for pie? - I know it, she's ready for pie. - [Eddie] She's right beside you. - Ready for pie. Ready for pie, yeah. While y'all are eating I'll make some more whipped cream. How about that? (Paula laughing) Alright, here we go. Who's gonna cut the pie? Peggy, come sit down, or you gonna miss pie. Who wants to cut it? - You do it, you're there. (Paula cutting pie) - I'm not allowed to so much. - [Paula] Oh, you're not? (Paula cutting pie) This pie is so good. George, pass me a plate please. (silverware dropping on table) - [George] Well, we're (Paula laughing) - [Paula] And I'm trying. Gosh, I'm so glad I - Okay, this is mine? (Paula laughing) - [George] And this must be mine. (everyone laughing) - Alright, you wanna share those plates? You take that one cause your Okay. Okay, Jackie. - [Eddie] I'll get mine later. - Huh? - [Eddie] Y'all just eat. - [Older Woman] A little teeny tiny. - Okay, how's that? - Good. - [George] Don't get greedy. (everyone laughing) Don't get greedy. - [Michael] You needed a knife? (everyone laughing) - She said just a little bite. (everyone laughing) Just a little bite. - [George] Now, she's gonna say, now I'll take another little bite. - There you go. (everyone laughing) Well y'all tell me what you think. One more plate please, George. This is no need for you to be piggish. Piggish with the plates. - I'm not worried about running out. (Paula cutting pie) - What you think? Patty did pretty good, didn't she? - Did okay. - All right, how about a fork? - That's good. - [George] You're starting - And you're starting get (everyone laughing) Having to ask for everything. - That's delicious. - Oh Patty, girl. When we in high school- - I heard of Patty Cake, I - Patty pie. When we were in high school, I never would've figured you (Paula laughing) - Yummy. - You did good girl. Love and best dishes y'all. (Paula laughing) Hey, y'all, it's Paula Deen. Now, if you enjoyed this video, and click the subscribe button bell to be alerted Love and Best Dishes Y'all.