In today's video, I'll be using Legos and demonstration of horsepower and torque. If you have ever been confused by the I guarantee that after watching this video, So, let's get started and Now, this large Lego motor And the smaller Lego motor What's a Newton meter? Well a Newton meter is a measure of torque. It measures how much torque is being generated. And what is torque? Well the simplest explanation of It's the rotational equivalent of a linear force. When you take this bolt and push it But when you decide to bolt it down, you're applying torque to it. In both cases, a certain But what's different is the So our Lego motors are outputting a certain amount 1 Newton meter of torque simply applied at the end of an arm that is 1 meter long. So for example, if we take this bolt and And apply a force of 1 Newton the resulting torque Newton meters confused you? No problem. Because torque can also be 1 foot-pound of torque is being applied at the end of So in this scenario, I'm using the stored energy Our LEGO motors are doing the same thing. They're using the electrical to generate torque or rotational force. And as we have seen our large Lego motor is This difference in torque can easily be felt. If we install a small shaft into our motor, we can feel the difference in rotational The difference in torque output is very obvious. And the large motor feels much stronger The difference in torque can also be observed. If we install a heavy attachment onto our has enough torque to overcome the weight However, the smaller motor to overcome the weight of this heavy The convenient thing here is easily be compared to internal combustion And even more so to electric motors Just like our Lego motors, the motors in modern electric cars, use the stored On the other hand, internal combustion engines rely on the stored energy in fossil fuels to generate torque. But despite their different energy sources, Both the torque output at the and the torque output at the crankshaft get connected to a bunch of different things. But ultimately their purpose is Now, let's move on to horsepower. We already know the torque Now, let's add the horsepower output as well. And here we have the horsepower You notice something peculiar here? The large motor has more than four But it has barely twice the horsepower. How is this possible? Well, to understand how this happens we have to understand what horsepower is. The keyword in the word horsepower is power. What is power? Power is the rate at which work is done. In more simple terms, power measures over a given period of time. You can even call power 'activity'. It measures how many times you can repeat This means that power introduces When we speak about torque, time isn't a factor. We simply measure much And that is our torque. That's it. But horsepower measures how much force This means that torque is The amount of rotational force. But horsepower is influenced by two factors. The amount of force. And how many times that force can be Now we're going to attach these two So that we can more easily observe As you can see, the small motor actually In fact, over a period of one minute, the While the large motor makes only 146 rotations. This means that although it can't the small motor applies its torque at a In other words, it outputs its It's more active than the large motor. And because horsepower is influenced and the rate at which that force is half the horsepower of the large motor, This also means that while horsepower cannot be felt in the same sense. It can only be observed. If we put our fingers against the We're feeling the force against our fingers. When we're sitting inside a we're again feeling the force We can only feel the amount of force. And because torque is only But horsepower isn't only a force. It's a measure of the rate of force. In the case of engines and motors, Which means, that we can't really feel Something else that's interesting, motors are pretty analogous to Truck engines are usually physically very large. A truck like this will typically have an And from an engine of this size you can And around 2,950 N.m of torque. Really puts our Lego motors On the hand, a sports car engine will be of matching, or even outperforming a Although, it won't come even In fact, these are the specs of an The sports car can outperform Only because the truck has a very low max RPM. The truck engine can't rotate beyond 2,500 RPM. In contrast to this, the sports But the sports car engine can't One of the key reasons behind Often the torque output of an engine This is also true for humans for example. A larger human will have a larger muscles. And will often be capable of generating In a similar manner, a larger engine will which means you can stuff more And you can generate more powerful combustion, which result in greater force And thus a greater torque output at the crankshaft. A truck engine needs massive torque in order to be able to move a much greater On the other hand, the sports car engine Thus it generates more horsepower. And there you have it. I hope this finally manages to you might have when it comes As always, thanks a lot for watching. And I'll be seeing you with On the D4A channel.