There are a lot of myths about the human brain. I mean, it's the most and literally encased in a box that's kept it shrouded in mystery for most of human existence. So we've had plenty of time to Over the years, we've perpetuated the idea that playing Mozart for your baby will make them smarter and your brain fully develops among other bogus claims. But everything comes from somewhere. So today, we're diving into five big brain myths: where they come from, and what the science behind them really suggests. [intro music] Let me ask you a personal question: Are you a right-brained or left-brained kind of person? Well unless you've had some major surgery, you're neither. Yes, the first myth we're tackling is the idea that your personality is determined by whether you primarily use the left or right side of your brain. Generally, it's that someone who more would be more analytical, while someone who uses the right side would be more creative. The idea may have started with the observation that some people are right handed and others are left handed. We noticed in ourselves a tendency to stick to one side of the body for certain purposes. Then, researchers learned that the left side of your brain, also known as your left hemisphere, controls how the right side of your body moves. So being right-handed would mean that your left hemisphere is more active while you write or play baseball and being left-handed would mean that your right hemisphere is more active. And that might have opened up the floodgates to the idea that other things are also controlled by one But if you really want to get give a Nobel Prize to the guy researching it. In 1981, the Nobel Prize went to Roger W. Sperry, whose research was focused on treating epilepsy, and investigating what happens when you cut the bridge between your hemispheres so they can't communicate with each other. But along the way, Sperry noticed that people used more of their left hemispheres for language and right hemispheres for nonverbal functions. And that might have been what popularized this left Sperry's research did not suggest that you're ruled by the left hemisphere if you use facts and by the right hemisphere if you feel emotions. But that's what the media took and ran with. And even though researchers explicitly since there was a kernel of truth to the idea, more recent research has lent support to a part of the myth. Which is all conspiracy theorists need. In 2013, a study published in PLOS ONE found that certain behaviors, like paying attention to are more dominated by the left and right hemispheres respectively. Which, if you squint, and don't read the next sentence where they say this idea can't be generalized, you could misinterpret to mean: left hemisphere people and right hemisphere people feel moved to act based on their own inspiration. But, after analyzing the MRI scans from more than 1,000 people, researchers concluded that personality just isn't the kind of thing that Like, on a small scale, there are some things like language that are correlated with But not across the whole brain. Any one person may have some parts of their brain that are left dominant and rather than one entire brain being left dominant and another being right dominant. So a personality wouldn't be ruled by their left or right hemisphere, although certain things they do, like throw a ball, can be. But while we're at it, let's tackle another myth about only using part of your brain. This next myth is the idea that most of the time, you're only using a very like 10% of it, while the just sit there. The idea may stem from research conducted by the neuroscientist Wilder Penfield. He electrically probed the brains of... wait for it... seizure patients, and didn't see any response in their bodies after stimulating certain brain regions. And yes, sometimes when you activate a part of someone's brain with electricity, it makes their thumb move. That's something Penfield could observe as a direct result of brain stimulation. And also yes, your entire brain isn't necessarily regulating everything your body does. Like, to move your thumb, you don't need to activate your smell center. But if you try to zap a and you don't see anything happen, it doesn't mean it's doing nothing. Like, you might not be monitoring for every possible biological If you poked the part of the brain that makes you remember peeing your pants while riding a zipline in when you were twelve... but you're only looking for twitching muscles... you're not gonna register anything. Or maybe, you may have poked a part of the brain that then tells a different, secret part of the brain to make the thumb move. In other words, way more of the brain is working on this thumb thing than it looks like. Today, there's someone in the world studying pretty much every cubic micron of the brain, from the exterior part, called the cortex, to the deepest sub-cortical layers. nd they're finding that whether or not Penfield saw it. So you can consider this myth busted. You have a fully functional organ up there, and unfortunately, using 100% of your brain does not give you god-like powers. Sorry to all the Limitless fans out there Neither, it turns out, will listening to Mozart. This next myth comes directly from a published experiment, so it might be the most defendable But it's still not true that playing Mozart for your baby will make them smarter. Back in 1993, three scientists in California published a one-page report in the journal Nature. And in that page, they detailed the experiment they conducted on 36 college students. Let me repeat, college students, not babies. They gave the students IQ spatial reasoning tests after playing them one of three clips. The students listened to 10 minutes of either Mozart's sonata for two pianos in D major, a relaxation tape, or silence. And the results were incredible. The Mozart group scored almost 10 points higher on that IQ test! So naturally, people who were very excited. A whole movement started to make kids smarter. But even in that original paper, the authors acknowledged that they only tested one kind of intelligence and one kind of music, and more research would be needed. And we could get into the but that's a whole other video. With results that big, and companies eager to make a few billion dollars selling tapes to expecting parents, you better believe other researchers hopped on the bandwagon to try and replicate them. They tried to conduct those follow-up experiments that the original authors asked for. But it didn't quite pan out. Many have tried to replicate but the biggest results always with the lab that conducted the first experiment. Everyone else wound up with And with a few decades of hindsight, it's easy to say that that first But even meta-analyses from the 1990s Those are publications that Compared to silence, that analysis only provided an average IQ That's so little a difference, it falls within the range just having to take multiple IQ tests under the exact same conditions. If tons of other researchers and they all end up with way your study starts to lose credibility. But that's comparing Mozart to silence. What you really want to test is Mozart... or classical music in general... to other genres. And yes, researchers have looked at that, too. It turns out, listening to Mozart did correlate with higher scores on spatial tasks compared to other music. But it was by a small enough margin that other music also provided similar benefits. So music is good, but there's nothing extraordinary about Mozart. In fact, some studies found that pop music or even a passage from a Stephen King audiobook worked just as well and sometimes better than Mozart. So it might come down to And if your particular preference is to keep a video game soundtrack on while you work like me with the Hades soundtrack, this next myth is for you. Adults are always telling kids that the things they love to do are bad for them. Video games are no exception. So of course there's a myth will rot your brain. And that language is a bit extreme, The concept of a rotten brain when it appeared in a poem by Thomas Greene. Presumably, no relation to the or the sock salesman Hank Green. The gist was that people who And it might be four centuries later, but Greene's old poem still tracks with how some people treat those who spend tons of time playing video games. They're seen as sitting idle, not doing anything, wasting their brains away. Yes, some video games require a bit more active but the stigma remains just the same. It's true that we play a lot of video games. Like, three billion hours But all of those gamer sessions doesn't totally rot your brain. In fact, it has been associated And the more time you spend playing, the greater that increase. Grey matter is the pure brain Not the fat, blood, or other stuff in there. So if you play more video games and get more grey matter, that sounds pretty good to me. But it does depend on the And the part of the brain you're looking at. According to a 2013 Nature and platform games were positively associated with grey matter volume, while action-based role playing games were negatively associated. As a Kingdom Hearts fan, I am devastated So if you have to choose, Super Mario 64, Sonic, and I don't make the rules, I don't even follow them. But speaking of Mario, that research team found that participants who played Super Mario for 30 minutes per day for two months had more grey matter in three specific parts of their brains: the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, and cerebellum. Those are your memory, attention, and coordination centers. Makes sense. And compared to video game newbies, people who are "experts" outside of playing those games. So these researchers suggest playing video games could actually keep your brain from deteriorating, rather than rotting it. But with that revelation, let's get into our final brain myth by heading in the opposite direction [5] Your brain doesn't fully develop until age 25 The last myth of this video is that your brain isn't fully developed until age 25. The 25 number might come from studies that found brain development peaks in your "20s" and lessens thereafter. A lot of this myth hinges on called the prefrontal cortex. It's in charge of attention, decision making, and that kind of stuff. And it is a later developing But brain development isn't linear. Your prefrontal cortex doesn't wait for the rest of your brain to form before developing. In fact, most of its development happens in the first two years of life. And you've already got 80% of So toddlers are able to do a lot and decisions made by teenagers and young adults are totally valid. Young people are people too, capable of paying attention and making decisions. It's also true that the prefrontal cortex keeps developing through adolescence. But you might be surprised how fast your brain comes together. A group of researchers put together a reference based on over 100,000 MRI scans of people between the ages of about four months to 100 ... not months. And they found that the stage where you get all of your brain cells where they need to be... happens when you're still in the womb. Of course your brain isn't completely done cooking by that point. It's still got a lot of growing to do. When you're 2, your cortex is at its thickest. And when you're 6, you reach a high point of grey matter. Remember, that's the straight By the age of 11 and 12, an average brain reaches its max surface area And the volume of grey matter in peaks around age 14. So ultimately, some people might say you don't have all the right equipment in place until you're a teenager. But either way, you have stuff where you need it pretty early on in life. Way earlier than 25. But if a brain wants to work optimally, you also have to think of how well the cells can talk to one another . Signals can go back and forth much faster when the right parts of your brain cells are insulated with a layer of fat called myelin. Because fat looks white compared neuroscientists call it white matter. And your white matter volume is highest at age 29. You heard me! We skipped right over 25! So depending on what your final setup looks like, you might say your brain development finishes at different times. Most of your high points happen before 25, but some of them happen years after. So depending on how you define there's probably at least one whose brain didn't fully develop until they blew out 25 candles As it turns out, you can't So maybe next time someone makes some amazing claim about the brain, use yours and look it up in a reputable source. [ OUTRO ]