Hey there, guys, Paul here from theengineeringmindset.com. In this video, we are going to be looking at how electricity works. Now, this is pretty essential knowledge for any engineering, so we'll of what you need to know. So let's start at the very basics and for that, we need to Everything, including All the materials we The materials are just different because the construction of their atoms are slightly different. The atoms are made from three particles, two of which are found inside the nucleus and the third particle sits outside this. At the center of the Inside the nucleus, we have the neutrons, which have no charge, and which are positively charged. The neutrons and the than the electrons so these Surround the nucleus are different These are like flight The electrons flow much like a satellite orbits our plant, except that the electrons travel at almost the speed of light. The electrons are negatively charged and they are attracted of the protons. The electrons orbit around the nucleus in these orbital shells of how many electrons can The number of protons, neutrons, tells us which material it is. Atoms hold on to their but some materials will than others. The outer-most shell is and in this shell, some materials have which can flow to other atoms. Atoms which can pass electrons and most metals are conductors. On the other hand, atoms which and so they can't pass are known as insulators. And these are things Now, we can combine these materials to safely use electricity by having the conductor in the center, which allows electrons to move, but surround this with an insulator to restrict where they can flow to, i.e., not lead to us, which keeps us safe. If we look inside a slice of copper cable at the free electrons of the copper atom, you'll are able to move to other atoms, but this happens randomly If we then connect this to a closed circuit with a power source, such as a battery, then the to move and these will then all flow in the same direction to try and get back to the other terminal of the battery. When I say circuit, which electrons could flow along between the two terminals, of a power source. So we can add things into their path, like light bulbs, and this will have to pass through to the other terminal. And so we can use this to The circuit can either be open or closed. In a closed circuit, can flow around. And in an open circuit, this are not able to flow. Voltage is a pushing force of It's like pressure in a water pipe. The more pressure you have, The more voltage you have, But what does a volt mean? Well, a volt is a joule per coulomb. And a joule is a measurement and a coulomb is a group We'll have a look at what a coulomb is in just a second though. So a nine volt battery of energy in the form of work or heat per group of electrons that flow from one side of the battery to the other. In this case, the current of electrons flow from one side of the battery through the LED light and then the electrons of the battery, therefore, and heat is produced by the light bulb. Current is the flow of electrons. When a circuit is closed, it means electrons can flow, no electrons will flow. We can measure the flow of electrons just like you can measure the To measure the flow of electrons, we use the unit of amp. One amp means one coulomb per second and one coulomb is a group of electrons. The group is incredibly six billion, 242 million, and that has to pass in one second for it to equal one amp. That's why electrons are grouped together and just called amps, to Resistance is a restriction in a circuit. The wire which carries the electrons will naturally have some resistance. The longer the wire, the The thicker the wire, Resistance to the flow of electrons is different for each material. And the temperature of the material can also change resistance Electrical circuits use known as resistors to of electrons. This is either to protect other components from too many electrons flowing through it or it can also be used such as in an incandescent light bulb. Resistance occurs when The amount of collisions is to another. Copper has very low collision rate, but other materials such as iron will have much more collisions. When collisions occur, and at a certain temperature, the material will then as well as heat, which is how When a wire is wrapped in a coil, it will generate a magnetic field as the current passes through it. The cable will naturally by itself. It's just intensified by the coil. By wrapping it in a coil, the magnetic field becomes so strong that the magnetic field starts to actually affect the electrons within the wire. But we'll look at why this occurs in a future, more advanced video. We can increase the strength simply by wrapping the We can also increase the number and also we can increase passing through the circuit. And this is how electromagnets work and it's also the base of If you want to learn more we've already covered this Just see the link on the screen now. And when a magnetic field it will induce a voltage in that wire caused by an induced electromotive force, which is pushing electrons If the wire is connected in a circuit, then this electromotive force This is the basis of and the electricity at your is produced in a very similar way. Transformer, now, we can together that we've just covered and when we do so, we will to generate electricity and then we can place two other coils in very close proximity to and this will create a transformer. The transformer will induce a voltage from the first of the primary coil over into the secondary coil. And this will force electrons to flow if the coil in the secondary side has a closed circuit. Now what's important about the transformer is that we can increase between the primary simply by changing the amount Again, this is a subject all by itself so we'll cover this in a Now, something else which I is the capacitor. So, a capacitor forces to separate across two plates when it is connected to a power supply. This causes a build-up within an electric field. When the power supply these charges will then be released, flow up, and meet again. This provides a power source until the charges have It's slightly similar to a battery, but capacitors are very common and they're in almost We'll cover this obviously in more detail in a future video. Just be aware of these. So the last part I want is that there are two types That being alternating current, or AC, and then direct current, or DC. Alternating current simply means that the current flows in a circuit as the terminals This is a bit like the tide of the sea. It goes in and out, in So there is reversing constantly. Now, alternating current of power and the plug in your buildings, in schools, these will all be providing Now, on the other hand, we've and that simply means directly in only one direction. It is not alternating. This is what's provided from batteries and almost all your handheld devices are from this, as well. So we can convert AC to DC and vice versa using power electronics. And this is how we charge and power, you know, small devices, and it's also how solar panels can be used to power our homes. Because solar panels produce DC power and our homes need AC power. So we have to convert So both AC and DC have but, you know, for sure we'll look at this in another later video. It's a bit more advanced. And there's also quite behind why we use AC, DC, and If you've got 10 minutes, having a Google or a YouTube of this, too. All right, that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you enjoyed this and it helped you. If you have any questions, please leave me in the Also don't forget to subscribe theengineeringmindset.com.