(music playing) i know I shouldn't hate on that snow because but white fluff turned into slush is no hello creative friends so this is a practice session that turned into i was inspired by the snow to create my holiday/ Christmas when I practice, it's kind of liberating oftentimes this is when I create my most satisfying pieces. i'm using a technique i have done in a past video. you can watch the video that just popped up so essentially I load up my brush with lots of i drop 5 dots of color in kind of like a circle shape some of the color and I want the brush to be and extend it to create a leaf shape. that's so here I was experimenting with colors, with the um for a very well shaped leaf or something I hope it's not a bad word. I think you know I gave the leaves a bit of movement here and there I wanted to experiment with two different color and Deep Scarlet. while the petals were still wet for the second one, it is Jaune Brilliant No. 1 and I love that color so much. it's a bit granulating, it has genuine stones in the pigment mix. it has very soft bristles. to drop the contrasting color, I'm using both brushes simultaneously. it allows me I wanted to have these two contrasting it's always fun to see two colors merge. so the green did not move as much as (music playing) (music playing) i was having a lot of fun so I ended up filling this is only the first layer by the way. normally I would have liked to have but you can't really do that with watercolors. however, if you do want that look (light over dark) I just wanted to keep it all watercolor I came into some areas where going around I just I just layered the lighter color on top i didn't intend it to become something else originally. the red color you're seeing is very vivid I don't know why my camera interpreted the segments i filmed with my phone show the real colors when i started on the 2nd layer, i did the same as before: I'm dropping Caput Mortuum before you paint the second layer, you need to let the first (music) (music) (music) (music) I'm really liking the darker green on... oops! I don't know what possessed me to put to see what my pizza making skills are all about I don't like tomato sauce on my pizza I prefer olive oil and garlic and a ton of frozen kale I freeze my own kale so I chop it off and put hey look at that slow motion shot! I'm sorry guys. I was just having fun. in the middle of very serious tutorial. back to the painting! so it's now time to add this is my favorite of all times and I'm flicking because I didn't I wanted them fine and as natural as possible. so by flicking the brush i had the best results however it was very difficult to stay within the leaves um I went a little bit overboard in some areas. a little trick about flicking and having tapered edges: it's best to move the entire arm instead of but it's very easy to get out of control when and this was exactly the perfect time to (music) the shots I took from my phone are showing the it's unavoidable. i use different filming equipment I think it was at this point that I decided to so from that point on it was full steam ahead with the darkest colors that I had chosen for the intention was that I would have a dark color it was successful with the yellow and green I also decided to add leaves by adding pale gold to Ziosite Genuine it gave me that beautiful shimmery color I would say adding the gold is less saturated than if I'd and here's what I meant by having um difficulty I didn't want to hide the I wanted to have a little bit of a shadow I forgot to say that um I was trying to I also added some red dots to mimic some kind I think that is the last thing um the entire process was so satisfying something that I would enjoy, like not knowing so essentially it's almost like um I don't mean to say that it's definitely not a plan at the so satisfyingly awesome. I think that's my opinion but I really really like uh this painting. because I hadn't planned the composition, so i decided to cut into the piece i was going to have just two pieces so I decided to cut that in half and that i was left with three card fronts. and here's another technique i used the stiffer brush and that is very so with No. 4 round brush, I dipped it in pale gold I'm holding my brush at an angle. it's hard i should have recorded on my phone but I forgot so you just run the brush along the sides. it's really and then once that was all dry - very important - and then mounted all of that on kraft card bases for the sentiments, I went into my word processing I used two different fonts: &quot;Snell Roundhand&quot;, size 28 I'm using a Mac so I don't know if they're available on look at them! I absolutely love them! so I hope that you've enjoyed this um funny I want to say a big thank you to my Awesome Patrons thank you all so very much for watching! usual I will have the supplies listed in the description I hope you'll have fun making these cards I wish you a wonderful rest of the week. (music)