They're coming, and they're here to stay! that are going to change the way you write your so make sure you watch this video, so you're prepared once they So, imagine you get to the office, and you the boss comes along and says, &quot;Hey, I have you to quickly give me the total sales for You take a look at this and you think, &quot;Well, I to create a pivot table, if not, don't worry; help you out. Your other option starting that gets this done. That function is the to use. All you need to do is type in =GROUPBY. The first one is the Row fields. These are Division and Sales Manager. I'm just going the Values. In this case, it's my sales. If I had just select that as well. Next is the Function. look at this; we have a lot of pre-built functions this is probably going to be the most used one. and so on, right? Lots of things to choose own Lambda function if you can't find a function you have to be a bit more advanced, and I'm So in this case, all we need is the SUM. close the bracket, press Enter, and that's now. Another great feature of this, though, is this formula. That's the default behavior. The the sum of these values is this number, Now, let's go and take a look at our optional because they're in square brackets. So, the the Field Headers. In my case, I didn't select if I had selected it, I could select Now, just to demonstrate how that looks, if I I'm just clicking and clicking again to make sure and if I select the headers for my Row fields, right? And I choose a 3 here to show Division and Sales Manager, right? Sales Manager. I could change this to You can just always hardcode this, but that's Personally, I would have preferred if this somewhere later because I find the next two let's just move on to the next argument. This is want to show the grand totals on top or on the So in this case, I'm showing two different and Subtotals as well. So here, I get Health. I Utility, and then a grand total. You have I put a minus 2, I show the grand total on say boss changes their mind and they say, as well.&quot; It's really easy to update this. All these three columns, and that's it, right? We If at any point in time you want you can put a zero and don't show any totals. Another optional argument that you have So let's say I want to sort everything by the going to put 4 here. When I press Enter, right? So that's the default; it's ascending subtotals. If I want to sort everything in front of the column number. Now I get all my Now, the advantage of this over a pivot moment something changes in let's say Jesse Pinkman's FitTrack is right here everything updates automatically in my report. second advantage of this using GROUPBY over to return text in your Values field, which So, for example, let's say boss wants the division. We could quickly use the GROUPBY the Values fields is going to be my Sales Manager something that can work with text. So CONCAT is an together. ARRAYTOTEXT is better because it's comma. So when I press Enter, I get my sales because my data set is detailed and sales here too. Optimally, in my example, I want to Now, there isn't anything inbuilt but you have the ability to write your own function. For the parameter that's going to it's going to be any sales manager. I'm going to to be the unique version of the sales manager I'm going to go with UNIQUE of A, right? Any and when I press Enter, I get my report. Let me show you the third and my favorite I have the same data set; it's just not formatted and for some reason, they've added calculations Total Quarter 1, down here I have Total Quarter Total Half Year, and so on. I can create a pivot I could do with Power Query. But you can also So let's say we want to get the total sales going to be the sales manager. Now, this is pressing Ctrl+Shift+Down Arrow until I get to the I want to get the Values fields, which is let's go with SUM, close bracket, press those calculations are all going to add up these. We can do that by using the last argument So I'm just pressing the commas or the option here. Now, we want to exclude column that is a blank cell. To do that, Include argument in the FILTER function. So and include anything that doesn't equal to blank, I get my proper report, excluding all If, for some reason, you couldn't do this, wanted to base your logic, let's say, on another and if anything starts with the word &quot;Total,&quot; we can. All we have to do is just it would be LEFT of the value that we to take a look at the entire A column, so that's &quot;Total,&quot; five characters, if they don't If they are equal to &quot;Total,&quot; then they should pretty neat way of excluding things you Now we've been taking a look at the SUM a lot. at the AVERAGE sales for each person or the one So when I press Enter, I get the percentage of just format these as a percentage, Ctrl+Shift, that I can easily tell who sold the most, I'm and let's sort the second column in descending and we can see the salesperson that has the And remember, all of this is fully dynamic. So number, and he's going to jump all the way to the is the total of whatever quarter, then it's Now it's time to take a look at how you can handle want to take a look at total sales for each year you do that? So I'm back at my original clean is start off with GROUPBY. Then we are going to get the year; you're going to put it inside the select your Values. In this case, it's sales and What about year and month combination? Well, you that combination. So one thing that comes to allows you to format a date or any number or any format this date as, in quotation mark, &quot;yyyy-mm&quot;, quotation, Enter, and I get the total sales for each of these. works. So we have 87,400 for February 2024. This Now, what if I wanted to expand this and add I want to have the year-month combination, then total sales. How would I handle that? and let's see how we can update this argument. like selecting a column to include as the Row function so that we could grab the year and add the sales manager column. To be able to do the horizontal stacking of ranges. So I'm going is the first column that I want to show; this is going to be my sales manager column. Close the At the very beginning of the video, I promised until now, I've just been talking about GROUPBY. The good thing is that once you understand how GROUPBY works, you already know how PIVOTBY works. You only need to know when will you use PIVOTBY instead of GROUPBY. Whenever you your data analysis is getting too long, you're and you'd actually rather prefer to columns instead of the rows, that's So, for example, let's say we wanted to get total here beside the sales manager, have the year in that right here. You're going to start off with have in the rows that's going to be Sales Manager. argument that comes with PIVOTBY because you we want to have the date, but not the date have to scroll a lot horizontally. We want we're going to have sales, and we want to get a nice report with the Sales Managers here, in the columns, and we have a total on the side let's say you want to have the Sales Manager and and you press Enter. We have Sales Manager, we have this additional column argument, not just for the rows but also for the column. we don't want to show the totals in the columns, decide on the column sort order and the filter in the columns, and when I press Enter, that Let me know your thoughts about them. Add thank you for being here. Thank you for watching,