[narrator] Sailing the high seas is one of humanity's Cargo ships transport up to three million Hi-tech terminals Everything we do out here, we need to do well in advance. [narrator] Every year, new, even bigger cargo ships are built, and special vessels Entire oil rigs traverse the oceans towed by extremely powerful tugboats. The latest navigational systems Nowadays, technology means that you But it can always happen [narrator] Giant cruise ships, carry millions of passengers. Ships move the world. But they are also gargantuan polluters. Pioneers want to change that environmentally-friendly technology In spite of all that progress, seamen still wrestle until the life of a ship and people take it apart again, piece by piece. I work here, I started here when I was only a kid, [narrator] And new giants of the seas are born again. [narrator] Today, about 90 percent of all global trade. Almost two billion pieces of goods travel the seas in containers every year. In the port of Hamburg alone, about 170,000 containers Stacked on top of each other, And that's more And even a little bit beyond that. But who builds all these ships The order books of the shipyards are not as well-filled as they used to be That puts more pressure on prices. Globally, many shipyards About 350 remain in business. The majority in Asia, since wages there and governments pay subsidies. As in the case here, Seven o'clock in the morning. The workday starts for 3,500 people. They build so-called &quot;bulk carriers&quot; The foundation of any ship is steel. First, workers cut steel plates that are up to ten centimeters thick Then they reassemble them and take the 150,000 individual parts the interior and the hull. After that, these pieces, are joined together into sections. Liu Jianlin is a crane operator. Her job is to place in its proper spot. The pieces can weigh up to 800 tons. Using tact and a light touch, she hoists these steel elements and 30-meter-wide colossus. You need laser-sharp focus. I concentrate only on the task at hand. And it takes courage And, of course, you cannot fiddle [narrator] The launching of the This magical moment when a cargo ship for her maiden voyage. And, of course, every welding seam and without any gaps. A big responsibility As a kid, I always dreamed But it never happened. But I think it's great for me that can carry my dream That makes me proud. [narrator] The cargo ship glides into the water propelled only by its own weight. The fact that this colossal construction is able to float at all A block of steel would just sink. You have to change its volume until its buoyancy A ship weighing 100 tons floats when it displaces This is where Since the cargo of the ship the maximum carrying capacity The &quot;Kendra Oldendorff&quot; The maximum of other giants of the seas The &quot;Kendra Oldendorff&quot; raw materials such as ores, Propulsion is provided that runs on heavy fuel oil, the cheapest fossil energy there is, but also, So-called &quot;scrubbers&quot; pull the sulfur But often these filters At high sea, Today, however, have also been substantially reduced After ten months of construction, Except for one final and crucial step. Once the ship is ready, When the sea trial is completed, [narrator] During its service life, the ship will transport on the main arteries that connect the equatorial corridor with the increasingly important which, in turn, is connected with Europe. Globally, tankers, tugboats, ferries are on the world's oceans And the logistics backing all this up Ever since globalization started, ports have been transforming Like here in Rotterdam, Europe's largest and most important port. The first port of the city It was near the city center But they ran out of space Today, the latest port section is located It's home to the most modern Made for ships like the &quot;Moscow Maersk&quot; with 18,000 containers on board: enough to cover Port 20. [narrator] After two weeks Captain Jens-Christian Kehlet Schou arrive at their destination on time. And the clock is running. Within 24 hours, almost 4,000 containers Efficiency is immensely important, especially in the container business, because about 90 percent move around the globe in this fashion. On board the container ship, First Officer Jeffrey Julius Braganza is monitoring the ship's balance [Braganza] We take seawater from outside So if they load too much cargo we can balance it [narrator] While the crew and sensors analyze the balance situation cameras on land monitor the entire You will find almost no people here. Nearly everything is remote-controlled. The crane operators at the command center. The port cranes weigh 1,700 tons and are the biggest in the world. The crane operators Tam, can you read me? [male voice over the radio] We're almost done with the gondolas. [male voice over the radio] [narrator] Every year, can be transshipped here in Rotterdam. Automation makes it possible. [funky electronic music plays] Remote-controlled transporters, the so-called take every container No drivers, from ship to shore and back. The vehicular battery charge and even the recharging process Which means 365 days a year without a single human being involved. For Terminal Director Jan Buijze, automation is the only way. Competition between ports The big advantage is, of course, when it is robotized, like you have when there is Also, as a terminal you compete with surrounding terminals. So that's a major item, that we can actually reduce our costs. In the end, what we would like to achieve is that we, at a minimum, [narrator] to increase the terminal's efficiency The owners hope this will offset The business is run One hundred percent is generated from renewable energy. In the meantime, the &quot;Moscow Maersk&quot; has almost been completely loaded. Time for the first officer Every container needs to be secured, so it can withstand waves Because no matter how big such a ship is, there are forces On board, there's a wise saying &quot;At sea, you're in God's hands.&quot; [male voice] To navigate a big ship It takes time to speed up. it takes maneuvering space, So everything we do out here, we need to do well in advance. [narrator] Especially like in the numerous manmade sea lanes. The most important among them: Every year, about half a billion tons from the Far East to Europe by ship. The Suez Canal is their shortcut. This bottleneck connects the Indian Ocean with the European Mediterranean, and shortens the sea voyage by at least a week. The ocean giants since the water levels are almost the same. While in the past, ships had to sail today, they take the 163-kilometer route Straight through Egypt. Passing the canal is possible and only in a convoy. And with plenty of distance Since its expansion in 2015, the canal is navigable in both directions along extensive stretches of the route. In the port of Ismailia, monitors every individual ship Only perfectly coordinated shipping allows them to pilot in both directions. That's about 14 percent of global The shipping companies pay by weight, 250,000 dollars per passage. Captain Ahmed Khalil runs the department. He's responsible for a lot of money. The ships passing through the Suez Canal The fare is set according to each ship and is determined its load, whether it's loaded or not, its draft... Not all ships cost the same. [narrator] Ship pilots Two specially trained experts per vessel ensure that the ships arrive It doesn't matter if it's a cruise, Since 1888, has stipulated to all ships from all nations Accidents in the Suez Canal are rare. But if they do happen, If something goes wrong you wouldn't have enough pressure You can't steer anymore. And if you can't steer anymore, Then we will move in the direction So what happens next? The ship turns into the wind, And then we have a problem. [narrator] In 2004, a tanker had a propulsion issue and got stuck crossways in the canal. The shipping lane was blocked for days. The result: millions of dollars of loss and the shipping companies. How traveling on the high seas can be demonstrated by taking a look found at the bottom of the sea. Neanderthals ventured out in dugouts about 170,000 years ago. That's what tool finds suggest. Then about 3500 B.C., the Egyptians And with its help, traveled around The Phoenicians then succeeded around 1000 B.C. At the end of the 6th century they traveled as far as the Tin Islands Around 800 A.D., the Vikings learned how to use and created a sun compass This is how the Vikings managed and reached Newfoundland by 1000 A.D. Then the 15th century Spaniards and Portuguese navigating along the latitudes. This is how Vasco da Gama In the 18th century, the exact measurement of time And in 1819, they crossed the Atlantic And then, in the 1960s, the first container ship went to sea. The beginning of globalized trade. Today, specialty ships like this tugboat tow incredible loads across the seas and still have that dates back hundreds of years. Because what happens This is an emergency trains for with his cadets. Nowadays, technology means But it can always happen Then we need to rely on an old system, like the sailors used to do [narrator] To this day, rely on the sextant in an emergency. It revolutionized the determination at the beginning of the 18th century and made it possible to go on spectacular exploratory travels. Its most important elements: the graduated arc, Cadets use the sextant to measure the angle between the horizon Simultaneously, at which they took the measurement and then compute the difference between the observed This is how they can determine The cadets have to repeat several times in a row. If there is cloud cover, The only thing they can do then is to continue on their voyage by compass and measure again with the sextant at the next opportunity. Unpredictable weather and giant waves remain the biggest dangers Every year, many containers are lost Like in 2011: The cargo ship &quot;Rena&quot; ran aground off the coast of New Zealand. It not only lost oil from its tanks, but also several hundred containers. Modern ships But how can it happen at all? There are two counteracting forces the buoyancy of the water Both forces converge on a single point. In container ships, the center of gravity normally sits That makes a ship dimensionally stable. If, on account of the load, the center of gravity is too high things become dangerous. Should the ship tilt there is a point and capsizes. Even today, hurricanes can be the doom of any ship. Running aground As was the case in 2012, when the &quot;Costa Concordia&quot; disaster And then there are the monster waves, which can be up to 30 meters high. Long considered a myth, from an oil drilling rig [ominous music plays] [narrator] In 2001, encountered a 35-meter wave. The ship was dead in the water, unable to maneuver for 30 minutes before the crew managed to activate A very close call. But time and again, Experts assume The so-called &quot;Northwest Passage&quot; They often have to sail long routes The Northwest Passage through the would be a shortcut. But it's iced over. Now, in times of global warming, and it has become to be sailable in the summer months. To keep the icy routes free for passage: That is the mission of special ships. Just like here, in the Gulf of Bothnia, the northern extension of the Baltic Sea where in harsh winters the ice masses can stack That's when icebreakers It comes to rescue and cannot move ahead This special ship throughout the entire year. The crew is part and operates as a kind The channels are regularly checked and kept open by the &quot;Polaris.&quot; It can break through ice sheets But your naked eye how thick the ice is. Our most important piece of equipment The radar image shows you If we're heading towards packed ice, this helps us to go around them. Plus, we also have [narrator] The radar at a 360-degree angle. With the help of their echoes, the crew determines position, Not unlike the echo navigation of bats. The &quot;Polaris&quot; is called to a mission. A ship, the &quot;Alaskaborg,&quot; is stuck in the vastness of the ice Any kind of delay in cargo shipping But there's also [speaking Finnish] [narrator] The ice is dangerous. When ice sheets this high pressure [narrator] The ice is always moving. It's unpredictable and can suddenly It can do serious damage, And even sink it. The &quot;Alaskaborg&quot; is en route Her cargo: turbines, generators and 30,000 tons of steel alloy. [suspenseful music plays] Turn now and reduce power from the rear. [narrator] The icebreaker The crew of the &quot;Polaris&quot; tries &quot;Alaskaborg&quot;: &quot;Polaris.&quot; [over the radio] &quot;Alaskaborg.&quot; -Half speed ahead. Right now, please. [narrator] They succeed. The team of the icebreaker and escorts the ship This service is already included in the waterway fee shipping companies must pay to berth in Finnish ports. The &quot;Polaris&quot; accompanies the cargo ship to the coastal city of Tornio Without the powerful engines an almost impossible task. Sailing in a convoy to have a very sensitive touch. Because the &quot;Alaskaborg&quot; needs to follow but without bumping into it. The &quot;Polaris&quot; is protected rather well thanks to reinforcements of the stern. The stopping distance is two kilometers. Thus, rear-end collisions Mission accomplished. The &quot;Polaris&quot; is expected to run missions helping thousands more ships As ships go, A specialty vessel that often They roam the seven seas. Transporting this gigantic All this is possible thanks to the most powerful To begin with, its loading area As soon as the tug the semi-submersible pumps the ballast water out of its tanks and lifts itself up The biggest transport ship can lift up to 117,000 tons. Or to put it another way: Theoretically, you could stack up on its loading area... and you would end up at almost the cruising altitude But for some cargo, Then it's time to call in the most powerful The mission: to take this oil rig to the other end of the world. The &quot;West Bollsta,&quot; one of the biggest and most modern It measures 123 meters long, and, when empty, weighs 1,000 tons. [majestic music plays] [narrator] It is still anchored Or to be more precise: It is set to sail around the Cape of Good Hope, with a short stopover All the way to its temporary new home: A transport job of the highest order. At the helm: Kees Pronk. [maritime chatter] I've heard the costs of the drilling rig. But you don't think that much about it, because if you start thinking about that, [narrator] The cargo that the &quot;ALP is worth a half a billion euros. The first step in the transport process: to hitch up the 31,000 tons of freight secured with steel cables, There is one thing that the towlines snap at high sea. It's mainly these steel chains, weighing four tons each, that the drilling rig is attached to The team hooks up one of each and connects them with the main towline of the &quot;ALP Striker.&quot; This three-point connection After six hours of preparation, the &quot;ALP Striker&quot; At a speed of five knots, Such transports across the world's oceans And, of course, a challenge for the crew. On the high seas, the distance is almost two kilometers. In the past, the crew had to send off A pretty risky task in rough seas. These days, a drone does the job and checks if the towlines However, a collision with another ship would be an even worse scenario. To prevent exactly that from happening, a modern ship like the &quot;ALP Striker&quot; has special In particular, the Electronic Chart ECDIS, for short. Its heart is the electronic sea charts Even the registry of beacons [Pronk] We can monitor continuously. We can see water depths, the speed, where we are on the chart. We can also make our route over there, so we can just follow the routes and know where we have to sail. [narrator] It also includes In order to guarantee two independent systems On its way to Norway, the &quot;ALP Striker&quot; The Seven Seas are a busy place. About 90,000 ships sail the oceans. Tankers, bulk cargo and container ships, ferries or cruise ships. Every year, just short of 1,500 new ships Far more than are scrapped. These ocean giants reach, on average, the age of 29 Like this ship graveyard in Pakistan. Near the Pakistani coastal city around 130 scrapyards wait for old, Every year, more than 800 big ships This is a huge mountain If you do the math, this amounts to about Enough to fill the city limits of Berlin. It's the end of the road The &quot;Oceana,&quot; For 23 years, this ship carried hundreds across the world's oceans. Now, it's time for retirement. Foreman and engineer Ali for cutting the 10,000 ton ship This is about three months' work for approximately 50 people. First, we cut a large opening This gives us the space to roll big tools, [narrator] Today, the tip of the bow and give access to the ship's hull. Sixty-five percent of all ships The purchase price In the case of the &quot;Oceana,&quot; this amounts to 365 euros per ton, a price tag of 3.6 million euros But the scrapping is a dirty business For years, Pakistan was among with the toughest In the meantime, basic safety rules On warning signs at least. Still, the wrecks are dangerous. Welders often are exposed to toxic fumes or asbestos dust. Fatal accidents are a regular occurrence, through gas explosions Foreman Ali That's 100 euros more [Ali] I work here, I started when I was only a kid, and today, I'm paid well and have good healthcare. This is a good profession. And so far, [narrator] especially for the shipyard operators. The painstaking work allows them to sell However, the thing that sells best is steel. And the ocean giants And this steel gets recycled back into Pakistan's national steel industry Every day, trucks transport out of the shipyard Next up: the bow of the &quot;Oceana.&quot; The incoming tide has foreman Ali If the tide is too high, or pull the separated pieces The job needs to be done Success. Winches hoist the nose of this ocean giant onto the beach. Foreman Ali is pleased with the result. I hope the industry is doing well, If business in the industry is slow, In any case, we do our best [narrator] The so-called is supposed to make scrapping of ships and improve work conditions. But it is not binding yet. Too few countries The scrapping business is still thriving. And here is another reason why: The giants of the sea Currently, the world's fleet uses up to 370 million tons Many of the gigantic ships It's only in designated zones near ports, for example. Emission standards But critics demand stopping the use A transition to natural energies Like on this ferry. A 24-meter-high cylinder It's a kind of rotating sail that helps cut down The idea is not exactly brand new. The so-called &quot;Flettner rotor&quot; The verdict then, however, was: Too much effort In the meantime, however, in times of climate change, A 20 percent reduction thanks to the so-called &quot;Magnus effect.&quot; As soon as the on-board sensors a motor starts to rotate the cylinder. This rotation accelerates the airflow into the direction of the rotation, while it slows down the airflow This results in an air pressure drop. Or to put it differently: Lift is generated Tuomas Riski has set himself the goal to equip up to 20,000 ships with this We are extremely proud of the result. With external analysis partners, we have proven that we are saving more than 250 tons of fuel per year. [narrator] The more cylinders, The rotor sail can be installed enough space on deck. Many shipping companies, however, But in spite of that, that use this technology. The power of the wind, to cross the oceans, This future of propulsion on a catamaran the &quot;Energy Observer.&quot; Fitted with solar panels, Here, the ship is anchored A six-year research trip took the crew of the catamaran Engineer Hugo Deveudeux the heart of the ship: the hydrogen cell. [Deveudeux] What we do is from water from the sea We have an electrolyzer, so something that breaks The O2 we let go out the vent. We produce O2, We compress it and store it [narrator] The eight hydrogen tanks supply the ship enough to run the catamaran But there is rarely a need for this. Because the ship uses additional to charge its batteries and to supply both their electric motors. [Deveudeux] It's starting to be So we are erecting them for us to recover this energy and have a better mix for today. [narrator] On top of everything else, 142 solar panels support the motors. All of them as light as possible, perfectly fitted to the surface shape and still sturdy enough The panels absorb the sunlight from above as well as sunlight Captain Marin Jarry has been traveling the ocean He used to be on merchant ships. Today, he feels the calling A journey around the world but with the latest technologies. We use only renewable energy and hydrogen. Every port we stop at, We show them the ship and that these solutions [narrator] But what to do No sunlight to feed the solar panels, not even a breeze of wind, and the batteries are running low. Now, engineer Hugo needs to activate the fuel cells the ship's brain. The ship can continue its journey [Deveudeux] For me, It will start with small boats, and after that And perhaps after that [narrator] On another positive note, the sails of the catamaran, A sea change in thinking has begun. Due to high emissions issues, have started to work on methods because heavy oil A first solution: shore power. Ships can switch off their engines However, there are only a few ports And the demand is low, since this form of power supply is still many times more expensive It may be true that heavy oil and coastal regions, but in the long run, have to rethink their propulsion concept Cruise ships are under This form of vacation As a consequence, however, A first attempt at a solution: LNG, liquefied natural gas. The &quot;Coral Methane&quot;: a bunker ship refueling one of the world's anchored here in Barcelona. It's the first of its kind that travels However, there's a problem: LNG is more expensive than heavy oil, Natural gas needs to be cooled down before it liquefies and its volume is reduced to 1/600th. Daniel Henning and his team monitor the refueling operation Yeah, so in a few minutes, [narrator] A fill-up gives the gigantic cruise ship for two weeks of traveling. First, the LNG evaporates and then flows through the yellow lines The colossal 800-ton engines Should one fail, the other can supply In case of an emergency, the ship can switch over thus ensuring Engines that run on LNG reduce nitric oxide emissions and CO2 emissions by up to 20 percent. And there are zero -[male voice over radio] Go ahead. Yes, Chief just called. They're warming up the hose, [narrator] The captain LNG is still a fossil fuel, even if it has advantages But, and that is the hope, not for long. LNG is a key technology, because we hope that someday, And that would be the next step from and, of course, shipping in general. [narrator] LNG, liquefied natural gas, could be a solution of maritime tourism. Because saying goodbye is something cruise ship aficionados The ships are like swimming hotels. The biggest of them To cater for all of them some ships have a crew of more than 2,000 who work behind the scenes First thing in the morning, while the guests the preparations for the next meals are already in high gear Be it desserts or tarts or entire the guests shall want for nothing. That's why many cruise ships These are tough jobs. As is quite common you'll find many Asians working on board. They make significantly more money here But they are often contracted through intermediary employment agencies. And that makes it legal to pay them significantly less Satisfying hungry cruise guests This is the responsibility Every day, he checks the storage pantries where 1,800 articles of food are stocked. No matter where we are, 90 percent of our supplies because of the quality The remaining ten percent is everything like fresh fruits, vegetables and eggs. This produce is delivered [narrator] and meet the standards the strictest anywhere in the world. But the thousands of passengers on board Entertaining them and catering It starts with the small things. Every day, into the laundry Thirteen tons of laundry daily. Only a gigantic washing machine &quot;The Beast&quot; is what the crew calls it. Fifty kilograms of laundry Shifts go from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. The passengers, of course, are blissfully All they have to do Shipping. Where is it headed? The giants of the sea are getting bigger, A rethinking is underway. Pioneers are developing new, environmentally-friendly Vast terminals Shipping in the 21st century. A logistical and technical masterpiece.