The electric vehicle tensions. Concern around weighing on American lawmakers China's growing global auto edge. At the center of that for its beaches and its ideal Mexico. Michael Dunne: The Chinese have export market. Unknown: Across the US border, of Chinese made new energy cars. Juan Carlos Baker: The Chinese very aggressively, Unknown: And now some Chinese rival BYD, are announcing plans But for the U.S., there's a larger strategy. The Chinese would love to access profits to be made in the US Scott Paul: Getting in directly tricky because of the tariffs think many of these Chinese back door in the United States Unknown: Washington has built a using tariffs. But experts say Michael Dunne: It's a Chinese ready. This thing's coming, and world. Unknown: So how has Mexico auto companies, and will the these cars to drive into the Chinese automakers are winning the world. Last year, China electric vehicles sold government subsidies and lagging makers have had to look overseas China overtook Japan to become exporter, sending 4.9 million those cars were electric. China has built up such that it can't possibly sell all it has to look to other markets. Almost overnight, Mexico has Ilaria Mazzocco: Chinese international. So Mexico fits in companies trying to access new Unknown: In 2023 the country was made in China, importing a total vehicles. That's compared to companies. In May, BYD, launched in Mexico. It was the first time product outside of China. And embracing Chinese made EVs. Last Mexico were made by a Chinese foreign country. Even consumers to Chinese EVs for their its Dolphin Mini in Mexico for around $21,000, a little more cheapest Tesla. Juan Carlos Baker: Chinese very aggressively, they have to Chinese cars, it's a good reasonable price. Unknown: Experts say China's broader strategy to target friendlier to foreign of Asia and the Middle East have made cars in recent years. Felipe Munoz: Unlike the emerging ones are less terms of regulations. And I'm or emissions standards. So the at the figures, they are gaining economies than in the developed Ilaria Mazzocco: For exmaple, in government in Brazil was was welcoming BYD's newest factory in Brazil that they're biggest recipient of Chinese electric vehicle factories is companies go where they're Unknown: Earlier year, multiple announced plans to open EV states Durango, Jalisco and incentives to Chinese automakers operations. These include tax hiring labor. Experts say this process of production closer to the final both parties. For Mexico, the limit the cost of importing so companies, they could increase a market, but this is what has Mexico is already a serving as a hub for many has been exploring manufacturing plans are on hold for now. This signing of the North America which removed tariffs on many Mexico and Canada. The big most recent iteration of the Donald Trump in 2018 it's called agreement, or the USMCA. Juan Carlos Baker: First the BMW - and then the Japanese came lastly, the Koreans came - people now are arguing that the by Chinese companies. Scott Paul: Mexico is an not only for Chinese companies, in part, because of that free American market and it can do is called circumvention. Unknown: In order to sell its needs to access wealthier Europe, but so far in the U.S., and political tension. To get could take advantage of the like this. If a Chinese auto operations in Mexico or Canada materials that they use to build they could export their cars duty free. For EV production, in on Mexico for its low labor costs and, most U.S.. It's a strategy that before. Scott Paul: For more than a States have been playing a high it comes to trade policy tariffs And we've seen China do this in from appliances to auto parts to logical sector for China to Unknown: It's a potential Officials and automakers. Michael Dunne: If they're able manufacture the United States, imminent threat to American auto because their costs would be Scott Paul: Really, the most in a lot of ways, is the of the world's population, but goods. We are great at a deal. And if they were to see at 15 or 20,000 thousand dollars and these things could the U.S. competition. Unknown: For now, none of the begun building factories in plans, citing tension with the Michael Dunne: The sentiment I've talked to is that things and China right now that now is invest in the U.S.. It's not the much tension. Unknown: Mexican government incentives to Chinese walked back in tensions to enter Stella Li: They're not ready. Unknown: The USMCA is set to be that discussion from the White the Republican National made a pitch for Chinese U.S. if he were to become Those plants are going to be our people are going to man Scott Paul: I know, and look, couple of times that he wants to to the United States. I think Unknown: Experts say this could auto industry. Scott Paul: When you look at, industry in the United States, that are put on automobiles. We the United States, all over the places. Many of those companies again, China, more than a decade its glass companies. They wiped want to see that happen to because the Chinese auto same cost of capital as, say, Unknown: Vice president Kamala shared her policy stance on EV Michael Dunne: When will the in the United States or Mexico I'd say, is the quickest we'd much depends on how the next things. Unknown: In the meantime, Mexico of a trade war between two revolution. CNBC reached out to as Chinese automakers BYD SAIC by the time this video went