For years, the galaxy-wide conflict The struggle between the rightful Confederacy of Independent Systems The force-wielding Jedi for millennia, the thwarted at nearly every turn by the Separatists With the war showing no signs of ending the Jedi must consider every possible Whether some means allies too trustworthy, We're losing power to another sector! Go! Go! Go! Move it! Move it! General Chubor, I'm As I recall, Jedi prefer to be You've got your victory, Dooku. Let us have the people. My dear General Chubor, that in a war, there is no Our passengers are refugees are younglings. Younglings whose parents unwisely I've been monitoring your that this little chut is being As long as the Republic resists Every death in this war lies And now, it's time for you and your Hmm. The bleakest part about I have no more earnest tragedy would last the Did any ships make it Report a day no one has, For almost three standard We can barely even count But this? All directly because It is true that Dooku is the and no one will argue that But he hasn't done it may be responsible for But he did not actually commit each one. Of course not. But it's interesting that He placed the blame for the A lie, that is. Foolish it would be Would it be, truly, Master Yoda? Have the Jedi really explored every option? Could we have ended this war sooner? You're not saying anything Without Dooku, the Separatist There would no longer be a single seemingly Those who were left would consume In every river is a branch Then let us dam the flow. No, surely Mace isn't suggesting... Assassination, mean you? No. Some things simply aren't Not for a Jedi. Speak the truth, Master Kenobi does. No one here wishes to Few do at first. A small step, the Answer me this. How often has the Everything leads back to Dooku. Master Windu is right. I floor to ideas that before we Anakin! One man's life must be weighed against Isn't protecting the innocent the very We are failing the Republic, and Each life, a flame, in the Force is. It stands to bravely against the darkness But grows, this darkness does, with each Stop him! We must! The question before us now is, I, uh, may have a suggestion. Late. As usual. Nice to see you too, Obi-Wan. I do not recall our last mission Unfortunately, I don't think this Though I do hope it is more successful. This isn't going to be good, is it? No, old friend. I'm listening. No, I... I think I'll let the Council Is to join the ranks of the fallen. Desh told me about idea this was why you What does the Council wish from me? A course of action that we There's no way to phrase this The Council wants you to I think I understand, but Get close to him, you will. Close enough to kill him? manage that? I can't You have served the Republic Well, sure, I've stopped some blasted a few smugglers, Correct, Master Vos More than what it Master Yoda, I volunteer One there is, who has she has come than any You can't possibly mean Ventress. Ventress? Not Dooku's one who's been a Thorn Unfortunately, correct you are. Wait, wait. I can't The Jedi Council wants Failed Sith. I wouldn't go as but it is true our desires And no one knows him as well as she does. Asajj Ventress would be a that could prove vital to Failed is an interesting Ventress has failed at more She's attempted to kill Dooku She acted alone before, and this Didn't know you were such a romantic, How much help could she be? She Why would she want to work with us anyway? The same man our enemy is. Aid us she can, His personality, his way knows and retreats to. This is getting too complicated. No disrespect, but if I'm going to do Clean and simple. Underestimate Ventress, is. Her help, you must Huh? Alright, I accept the mission. I'll find And I'll assassinate Count Dooku. will survive this any more than See all ends you cannot, young one. I can see the end of this it ends with me bowing, And likely getting more details Correct you are, on all counts. Cheers the spirit, humordaz, Yet grave this task is, May the Force be with you, Quinlan Vos. Well, you're here long Maybe even sleep. Such luxury. Don't get used to it. I never do. Don't suppose you could talk about it? Can I ever? Usually not. But there's something The perils of old friends. I know you've a good one, That's just it. She's not a Jedi. She's This mission we're together is extremely I don't like wondering if my partner is The Temple can prepare us for And what area of the Temple is You know, I'm glad you asked. Oh dear. I know how to work with my I know how to deal with the But you know and I know And I need to know what sort of Ah, Dash. Can you excuse us? Vos will be departing for And there are some... Of course, Master Kenobi. I will see you later, Vos. I promise you. Rather like you, Ventress Frankly, we don't know how she'll react. But there are a few things She's driven, focused, and hates Dooku. Once you've gained her trust, and she sees I think you'll be able to Well, that's good to know. Asajj Ventress is highly intelligent, Skilled incompetence will impress her. She's also a very It might tip her off if you, uh, don't... And she... likes to trade barbs. You were fighting her? It's... banter. You flirted with her? Come now, Vos. You can't tell me in all sorts of shady places With Ventress, it's a power play. It will serve you best Jedi. No attachments, remember? How far is too far? Be rough around the edges. Leer a bit. She'll make it plain she's not interested. And take satisfaction in telling you so. She'll see it as a win. I think... Hey, how's it going? You gentlemen have any leads on any jobs? This ain't no hospitality service, buddy. You're either in the know, or you ain't. And clearly, you ain't. I guess the bald banshee is That woman is trouble. Give my new friend another one Yeah, thanks. So... she stole a job from you, too. Where is she these days? No... idea. I'd like to get a little payback. I know someone who might know where she is. Come on. Hey, Boba. This guy is looking for no name. Rookie? Don't you believe it? And what is she doing? Conning people. Like you, I got cheated out You think you can give her a run? I'm certain of it. Alright, I got a tip she I was going to take the job myself You think you can handle her? Be my guest. Let's hope you're man enough. Well, thanks. He has no idea what Where are you? There's my vulpi. Morgai.