Hello Anazala family. I don't know how this started, but a whole crying fest just Tomorrow's the big day guys. Mila and Noah are going on What's going on honey? What? I don't know, I was like yelling at them, I was like everybody let's go And then the minute, they're like okay, He likes Spiderman. Guys, the reason we're is because Mila is actually So this is her first ever Up until now, she was just that she has like five, 10 people in it. Now it's like a full-on school. And Noah, nursery. So that's his first ever school too. And they're going together. It's about to be an empty place. The kids are gone. I'm gonna be alone for This is it, babe. The kids are asleep right now, But we'll take you guys through the whole I just realized he has so many lunchboxes Look how many she bought him I don't know which one to choose This is crazy babe we have to be strong Breathe What if we homeschool them? You decide that now the day before school So guys before tomorrow comes I just want to show you what we I took them to the grocery store they were in their pajamas. I know. And they're like, mom, we want to come They were like picking the strawberries, I was like, okay. So, I'm going to show you Okay, guys. So we just came to the supermarket for We're going to get some snacks. And we're going to get the chocolate crust. Yeah, she wants crustables. So guys, I was reading a lot of your that I should prep the kids' snack Oh, look here. Yeah. Okay, so Noah got some- Oh, I just opened it. Oh, okay. So we got some grapes. That's an orange honeydew. Whoa, can we get one? I want to try one. All right, let's get one. Okay, so I'm getting it. All right. And then we're Ooh, limited edition. Looks like a scam, so let's get it. All right, so the kids are in their pajamas because you guys are What time? 7:30? Yeah! because you guys got to wake up early I did everything backwards I literally showered them and now i'm coming to the grocery Um, I thought it'd be cute before they head off to school. Oh, there's these mini Okay All right, okay All right. we're gonna get a healthy stuff. I need one more thing! Uh-huh. I want this. Ooh, that one looks good. Okay, are you gonna eat it? Yeah, I'll eat it today. All right. All right, guys, so we just got home. I look like a hot mess right now, but- With your pink hair? So the kids have to sleep at 7.30, because they were so I put everything out. I need to figure out, where is it? So I'm going to use these to put Okay, you can only have one before bed. And then what do you do? You brush your teeth Okay, so now mommy's unboxing everything. We got Crustables. Yup. When we're running out the We got one of everything. We got the blueberry one. And Mila really wanted to try Some cinnamon apple sauce, I completely ran out of eggs. Pineapple, and Mila wanted to try this. All right guys, so I put the so they're easy to grab. Just like that, right there. We got the chocolate milk, Can you show them the strawberry Here's the strawberry milk, got the waters. All right, and now it's time And you gotta sleep early too. Yes, because I have to wake up with you. So you can do everything, right? All right guys, to bed! look I'm gonna make her cry hey honey I got you a gift Awe, they're so cute. aren't they the best brother and sister? I feel like everybody might say that yeah every mom says that so for those who don't know this he was literally two weeks old and our friend Patty she's and she really helped make this They put him in a burrito. She wrapped him up. She gave him also like a, what? Like there She put him in like a little chair It was the cutest thing. Honestly, I don't even know how she did it Pat, if you're watching Guys, she's like one of the Those memories were so cute. Well, now they're going to school, baby. How does time fly? I know. Sometimes when we have kids, Dude, you're like what? You're 27 with two Okay, honey, are you ready to go to bed? Yes. Can we go to sleep now? So which lunchbox, guys? I think we should stop because they're going to think we're crazy. So let's just move on. Pick whichever you want. You're crazy. Do you actually want them to pick one? Yeah, because I don't know. I've been sitting here. I was like, he likes Paw Patrol, But he's a fan of Superman, but he I'm going to bed. Good night, honey. I'm scared now to stay with you alone so I'm gonna sleep Calmly, but surely and then guys tomorrow morning, we're Mila is about to be first grade So that's her first day And that's the first day ever for We love you guys so much Good morning guys. It's too early. It's actually too early, look at the view. The weather is cold Oh my god That's so beautiful We better not be late Let me show you the time, we're Look what time is it now 6:30. honey you do understand we have like 30 Mila. Good morning Baby First day of school Okay, Hey, we're a bit late, Mimi. Just a bit, just a tiny bit. Noah? Noah? Good morning! My chicken nugget! Are you ready for school? Yeah. Come on, let's go! We're a bit late. Hurry, Hurry, oh my god, he What's this? Oh my goodness, oh, oh, Come here, I hold you. No, I don't need help. You don't need help. I have this. Okay, just slow. I won't hurt myself. Good morning, good morning. It's the first day, the first. My love life. We're about to cry. I can see that. Baby, we need to leave in 30 minutes. We need 30 minutes for hugs and kisses. Okay, let's go brush. Come on, come on. Guess what? We got your new school clothes. Can I see? Can I see? I get it for you. Okay, just go brush your come on. Okay, let's go let's go let's go let's go. Okay Mimi. Hey, baby, how excited are you for school? I'm really excited. I'm gonna play with all my friends This is just crazy, okay I need to brush and change and do all the crazy things I need to do. All right guys. Oh my god That was crazy. It's like... So guys, we have Mila's All her new clothes. So we're gonna have to change. Oh my goodness. So cute. I wanna wear the skirt. The skirt? Okay. Look at this. Oh, the dress. How cute. This would be dad's option. Oh, that's so cute. Looking like a British girl. Oh my god, I love this. But I'm an English girl. Guys, I'm gonna cry. I feel like I woke up so early, I What Is that? Oh, these are Noah's pants. How cute! His little khakis. Aww. He's gonna look like dad when he's a kid. He is. Oh my God, with his white shirt here. He's such a mini-me to dad. He is, and you're mine. Yeah, except you have the I know. That's gonna change soon, guys. Today's gonna be a good day. An excited, day! Where's my top? The top is right here. It's a white collar buttoned-up Look at guys It's like the blue Which one do you want? Okay, guys, so I'm gonna change the kids and then we'll show you Okay guys, Noah's ready Hey, Show them. Oh my god. I'll do his hair. Oh my god. You look like, you know what you look like? Baby boss. Baby boss. Baby boss girl is over there. Mom. I can't believe this is happening. Mila's right there. Okay listen, I have to just put some of No, no, no, no, no, no. Okay, one, two. Here we go, big boy. He's letting us put the lotion. Hey Asala, can you give me the gel? Here we go. Noah, are you ready? Yeah. That's not gel. I knew now why you're not getting the Is that what you've been Yes guys, this is a curling buttercream. What are you okay? Okay, wait guys. one Hello? I'm gonna take you guys with me. I take you guys. here. Want to come watch? Want to come see me do dance moves? Where'd you take them? to show them how I do the dance moves. Okay, but we're very late, okay? Okay. Okay, show them the dance moves. Go. No, put on the table. Okay, I'll put on the table. Okay, here we go. Show them the dance moves. I love you so much. Okay, come on, let's go for the gel. I got him the gel. This is the proper gel. Oh my goodness. Daddy, show me. Okay, I'll show you when you're done. Okay, here we go. Are you ready for your gel? Yeah. Don't put it on my face. I won't put it on your face. Are you ready? 1, 2, 3 Ok look at me now I need to fix it. Now I fix it like No! You don't like daddy's hair? No. Ok I need some water Okay, one second. Don't move Show me, show me, look at me, but you have to look at Show mommy, show mommy the hair, show Mommy, what do you think? Wow, Is it nice? What did you do? What, what? It's okay but what's happening here? Mommy does it better. Okay, I'll fix it. Okay, come, come, come. I knew Asala wouldn't like it. No, don't look there, look at me. Oh my goodness, guys, look at this. My god, Wait I'm showing them. Okay guys, tell me the truth. Which one's better when Asala does or when I do his hair. Oh my god What do you think is better? Mommy. You're done? Okay show them okay, she's gonna guys show you guys We'll do the reveal here, okay Stand here. Are you ready? Okay, one, two, three, go! two ponytails. Oh, my outfit. Daddy made me wear this dress because I was not wearing this skirt in school. I did wear stripes, you're right. Yeah, so that's why you wore this dress. And then I got this black cute Me too, I have the same as you. Okay, we're late. Oh, wow. Dad, look at the time. Dude, it's 6:58, we have Two minutes. If I get hot, we remove this one off. Yes, you're right Oh my goodness. and then I can change into my dress. Look what I wrote. Next step, we go to the school. Let's go, let's go. Let's go! Okay, guys, it's 7:14 honey, We should have left 15 minutes ago. Quickly, quickly. Oh my god, Mila Let's go, baby, Why do I feel like I'm You are forgetting something, Dude, I don't know what happened. We woke up at 6.15. First day of school, very irresponsible. Mommy! What's happening? Okay, these are the shoes I'm wearing. Okay, are you ready, baby boss? No. Come on, come on, come This is my outfit. Hi. Oh my goodness! She's ready Yes, that's okay. I can't believe they're It's okay to be late for the Come on baby, come on. Why is this not closing? Stop freaking out. No matter how much I prep, nothing My shoes. So this is Noah's tote bag. These kids are going through something. Where's my shoes? Where's my shoes? We're late. Who's ready for school? Me! Summer time. Okay wait, you know what We forgot to take like a school picture. Okay, here, here, here. I'll put the camera here. Wait. Here we go, guys. So we're gonna take a school picture. You guys screenshot it. Tag And we'll repost all of you. One, two. No, without this bro, without this bro. One, two, three. Cheese! Oh my, oh my gosh! I can't believe this is happening. Why'd you put the croissant Now she's gonna yell at us. That was the only cute moment And also, when she cries later. You're crying. Okay, are you guys ready? Let's go, let's go, let's go. Now we're supposed to be leaving Why? We don't want Paw Patrol, we need these. She didn't let us wear this. Apparently, all the other Honey. It's just the first day. You took the other shoe in your hand? Oh, yeah. Oh my God. Stop! This is why we're late. Okay, let's go, let's go, let's go. Come on, come on. Oh my God. Okay, kids, come on. Okay, guys. So we're on the way to I can't believe this is happening. I didn't think I'd cry. Oh, dude. When we drop them off, Oh my goodness. They're so cute. Look at them. Hi! Everybody say first day of &quot;First day of school&quot; We're on the way now guys Let's go We need 30 minutes, oh That's okay First day of But from now on, now we Yes, so I guess you were right I'm telling you I didn't know Guys, if you watched the last video All I wanna say is that Me getting You should've been slimed. I feel bad now. Okay guys, so we're gonna get to the school and then we'll update you She's gonna be in tears. I'm gonna put it together. I don't believe you. I'm gonna keep it together. I don't believe you for a second. Okay, I have an idea. What? What if we sing? Take me out to California. I feel the day. It's coming to an end. Okay, this is why we can't sing. Okay, real quick guys tips What's the number one rule Be... Be nice to our friends and teachers. Yeah. So if somebody's mean I tell teacher. Right Noah? Yeah we tell teacher. Yeah, we don't do anything back right. We don't say mean things. We don't say rude things. Yeah, we don't hit back now Sometimes... Okay we're not gonna talk about that. I got to be ahead, I got to defend myself. Yes, so guys just for the record, both so just in case someone actually hit you You defend yourself Okay guys we don't hit We just defend ourselves. show Yes, you defend yourself Listen! No! No! No! Kids! Oh my God! No! That's bad influence! Listen! Listen! Listen! Oh my God! This went really badly. Guys! So, we protect ourselves. Show me how you protect yourself. Noah, show me how you protect yourself. Yes. And then we run to the Okay? Teacher! Teacher! This boy is hitting me. Yes. Here we go. And then, teacher is gonna call me. We're just kidding, guys. We have high energy this morning. It's gonna get drained once I'm with Anas. Yep, but anyways guys. We're We got like 20 minutes guys before we get to school One last Team Asala. Okay guys comment Team Team Asala! Team Anas for once. A purple heart under my pink heart for me. No purple for me Pink heart, team Asala. The one who puts the most amount of hearts Guys, they have a different Team Baby. Okay we're not doing that. Team baby, team baby. Oh my god, finally we made it to school. Okay, are you ready? Yeah! Okay, guys say bye to the Anazala family. Bye! First day of school. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 10 hours later. Oh yeah, that was a long drive. Okay, hug, hug, hug, hug, hug, hug. Let's get a nice screenshot, aw. Okay guys, screenshot One, two, three. Cheese! I love you Anazala family. See you 10 hours later, Okay, we'll drop them off. okay, okay, she's already freaking out Honey. I love you. Wait let me get you backpack. Okay, guys we'll take them Guys. Okay honey. That was so weird Now what? I don't know what to do now I think so obviously guys we couldn't show because obviously the school we want to make sure it's private for them so the world's crazy you never know so we love you guys so much make sure our family is getting bigger and bigger and yeah we love you we'll oh we're the kids