- Hi. In this video, I'm going to that has been posed to So, I'm Gareth from Music Matters, and the question is this. Why do we have three minor scales? Well, most people have probably and a melodic minor scale. But there's also this thing And the natural minor causes more confusion than So I'm going to talk about Now, every minor scale has And if you're not quite sure about that, have a look at our Music Matters video on the circle of fifths, which explains exactly how But the idea is that and a minor scale that So, to give you an example, C major has no sharps and no flats. It's related to A minor. And the reason it's in its key signature, A minor So that's why we say that A minor is the relative minor of C major. And we can also say that C major is the relative major of A minor. In other words, they share And when we write a natural minor scale, we are literally going to write and just use the key signature. So if I'm going to use A-natural minor, C major has no sharps, no A, B, C, D, E, F, G, A, G, F, E, D, C, B, A. Okay? what I'm going to write is the scale of E-natural minor, and there's a reason why I've So if I write E-natural minor, I'm going to have one of A, B, C, D, E. But E minor is related on the Why are they related? Because they both have a Now, some people think, when you just start on E and So you play, E, F, G, A, B, C, D, E, and come back down the same way, but that is not E-natural minor. That is a mode that begins on E. So we're talking about natural We're going to use F-sharp because F-sharp is in the key and its relative minor, E minor. So when we play E-natural minor, we play E, F-sharp, G, A, B, C, D, E, D, C, B, A, G, F-sharp, E. And the reason I've gone up the scale and come down the scale, that it's the same whether which is not true of the harmonic. Well, not true of the So when you're writing you need to know the key signature. You're going to start and finish on E if it's E-natural minor, and the only accidentals are those that belong Okay, so I hope that between what's a natural You can start on any note in white notes and come and then you're playing in a mode. So C to C, is the Ionian mode. D to D, is the Dorian mode. E to E is the Phrygian mode. And so on, but this is This is the scale of E-natural minor. So I hope that clarifies If you want to turn it into well, you're going to So there's the F-sharp still with us, and in the harmonic minor scale, you raise the seventh degree of the scale. Okay, so that's this one here, one, two, three, four, If I raise it by a You notice, I don't say sharpen it, I say raise it by a If it's a natural, and you it becomes a sharp, If it's a flat in the first instance, and you raise it by a semitone, So by using the term sharpen, it implies that we're going Well, if it starts as a flat it becomes a natural, and you raise it by a semitone, so be careful about the I just talk about it that way. Raise the seventh degree which is what we've done. So that is the harmonic minor It's the same going up So E, F-sharp, G, A, B, C, D-sharp, E, D-sharp, C, B, A, G, F-sharp, E. And if I want to write the melodic minor, then what I do is I raise six and seven, so, one, two, three, four, five, six. C-natural raised a So that's how I would go up the scale. It's probably a good how to come back down the of the melodic minor, we raise going up, but we follow the So when I come down, I'm simply going to use the key signature. So, when I'm going up, I'm going E, F-sharp, from the key signature, G, A, B, raise the sixth, so so D-sharp, E, when I come down, I just So, E, D-natural this G, F-sharp from the key So there we have it, the three minor scales, the natural minor, where we just adopt the key with the mode, then the harmonic the seventh degree by a semitone and the melodic minor use the key signature, and seventh degrees going the key signature when we come down. So you'll notice the is the same as the natural minor scale. So I hope that brings clarity to the three different kinds of minor scales. As to why we have these well, that's a bigger when we got into establishing in the years just following 1600, we ended up having to sort of The major scale was quite easy to find, that was easily located, When you come to the minors, the harmonic minor works best. When you write melody, the The reason being that at the top, you get this funny interval in the harmonic minor scale. So that's a sort of slightly So it's better to use the because it irons out that funny interval, called the augmented second. So when you're writing chords, harmonic minor is great, the melodic minor is great. Sometimes, of course, you've a little bit of negotiating, of interest between writing a writing chords in the harmonic minor, and sometimes you have to to make sure you don't But there's also plenty using the natural minor. And increasingly, in instrumental exams, people are being given a or the melodic minor, or So I hope that brings a little clarity to this particular question, why do we have three minor scales?