Hi. Somewhere around last year I saw a video of this product called Muzo on Facebook or something. The product supposedly canceled noise and could also put a secrecy bubble around you so you could talk privately. I was like well this is impossible, and total bullsh**. probably one of those concept videos But then I realized they had raised over five hundred thirty thousand dollars on Kickstarter Over 1.8 Million dollars on IndieGoGo a total of 2.4 million dollars They have been shipping this product to customers since September! I'm sorry, back then I thought it was an obvious BS and ignored it, but I guess 2.4 million dollars say it wasn't obvious. Now before calling me an idiot for not believing in the next groundbreaking technology. Let me tell you that I actually have a Muzo here *creepy Mehdi* Yes, I saw another youtuber called Mikel Schwarz Bought it and reviewed it on his channel. You can check out his videos for his experience with Muzo But I asked him if he could lend it to me to try and he kindly did Thank you, Michael. But I don't know man Maybe I misunderstood their product so before I turn this on let's check the highlights of (the) Muzo video to see what they claim This is how the video start(s) *random noises* What does it mean 'silence'? To me, it means that if the noise comes into a room it removes it, making it silent similar to an active noise-cancelling headphone (Muzo video) 'You can't escape from all the noise surrounding' If you think your wife's voice is noise, you should get a divorce, not a noise canceling device (Muzo video) 'A revolutionary anti vibration acoustic device' 'Muzo is the first device that applies anti vibration technology for smooth surfaces' 'The dedicated neomagnetic system is the soul of Muzo' 'powered by billion sound technology' 'Muzo can generate dynamic,' 'realistic sounds while canceling vibration' Hmm. It doesn't say it cancels noise now, but vibration, which could mean the same Basically Muzo sticks to a hard surface like glass or table, and with the help of its actuator vibrates the surface, turning it into a speaker. So with that surface's the speaker, they would be canceling noise and vibration *FHEFF* *FHWEFFH* *FJEFFP* OWW-OW NOUUUU Just control Muzo ith your smart phone switch on the serenity mode and enjoy some relaxing time *VHEVV* *VHWEVVH* *VHEVB* *VHWEVVH* See? The sound of the man's barking goes down to nothing. Let me replay *VHEVV* *VHWEVVH* *VHEVB* It's obviously noise-canceling have there been times you weren't worried and people around you can hear what you are saying By switching to the secret mode Muzo can help you to protect your speech privacy even when out in public you can enjoy a great Conversation without worrying about people eavesdropping. I don't even know what that means. Does it prevent your sound from going out of this bubble? Escape from the world and set your mood music creates your own personal zone of silence It creates silence, not... That's impossible Active noise-cancelling is a very hard thing to do, and the best results are achieved in headsets, and even those can't do well and heavily rely on passive noise cancelling which is basically making a thick insulated wall so that the noise doesn't get into your room or ears to start with Active noise canceling is done by providing a signal that's the reverse of the noise so that when the two add up, they cancel each other, or at least, that's the goal. Let me do some noise cancelling for you. I have a speaker here, which is connected to my amplifier circuit I've designed a while back for my levitating water project, which plugs to my cell phone, and I can play any tone from it. Like this [Profanity] F**k. Reverse polarity supply. Gets me every time. Maybe I should have used the... [Inhales] Ah, f**k it. Even a single diode would work fine here. But you could still get the shirt, so it's not forgotten. Okay, try it again Yes. This is a 500 Hertz tone. Now, if I connect the same speaker lines to a second identical speaker with a switch, and only flick the line, so that the signal coming out of their speaker is the reverse of the first one, and place them side-by-side, they should cancel each other, right? Let's try it. I am doing this test in the closet, which is the closest thing I have to a sound room I want to prevent reflections from the walls as much as possible. And this was the only room I could get some results from Now, I also have turned off my camera microphone automatic gain control, so it doesn't readjust when the sound level changes. Let's turn this on. Right, now only the first speaker is on, and I'm gonna stay out of its way and turned a second speaker on See, the noise level drops a little bit, but not completely. Now, I turned and speaker off again On. Off. On Now, both speakers are on and I'm gonna cover the second speaker with my hand See, the noise level goes up again So the second speaker is actually reducing noise So, it is possible to reduce noise to some extent, but as soon as I move to a room with more reflective surfaces, or even just moving the camera, the noise level could go up even higher than the original In fact, the sound level reduction you heard was only heard by the camera. For me, down there, the sound was actually getting louder You think Muzo can do any better? Let's give it a try. I should say, they did a pretty good job quality wise, it looks pretty decent. See, it plays sound using its actuator, which is already loud at higher frequencies as is, but not so much for bass. Sticking it on a surface enhances its bass frequencies quite a bit So it kind of works like a speaker. Let's stick it behind the glass So, it vibrates the surface mainly at lower frequencies, which is expected. You can also connect it your phone's Bluetooth and use it as a low quality speaker. Here is my phone's speaker Anyways, if you wanted a speaker, we would buy a decent speaker. But can it cancel noise? I'm gonna turn on my radio loud and see what happens I turned on the radio. Now I enable Muzo. That still sounds the same. Looks like it's trying to cover noise with noise. Let's try other modes. Privacy mode. Sleep mode. Surprised. It's not even trying. Here's why noise cancelling the room doesn't work to start with You have the red noise waves that are coming from far and are mostly flat, and inverted waves from their speaker. They collide in air and only cancel each other where the two opposing peaks meet over these lines. But in other areas, the waves could be in phase like on these lines, which means the noise level actually doubles. So, one ear could be in the silent zone, and the other ear in the loud zone, and when you move your head, the sound goes up and down. Wowowowowow That's why your best bet of noise cancelling is in a headphone, as the ear canal is quite small. And those waves are not even considering all the reflections from the walls and everything and even your own body moving through the waves. Silence. They can't create silence. Muzo creates your own personal zone of silence You keep using that word, I don't think it means what you think it means I only had one hope for this product. According to their drawing, they have a sensor to measure the surface vibration, and using that they create counter waves to cancel the surface vibration, and if the surface doesn't vibrate, ideally, the noise can't pass through it either, which, of course, that doesn't work either Every surface has its own frequency response, wave speed, and reflections So maybe you could cancel vibrations exactly where the device sits, if at all. And for rooms that the noise can get in from multiple surfaces like windows, even if you block the noise on one window, it still gets in from the others. I really wish this product would more for the sake of everyone who backed it You can out truly enjoy a sweet night under your ideal environment BULL$hLt!! Anyway, let's give it the best chance I'm gonna put my laptop in the washroom and play a 500 Hertz toned from it and measure it using my audio spectrum analyzer app. Then, I'll close the door which is the only way the noise can get out of. Can Muzo block noise by canceling the door vibration? Here we go. Now I enable Muzo. The tone is exactly the same. Privacy mode. Nothing. Sleep mode. It's just adding its own noise on top of tone. I don't know man. Maybe it came broken from the factory But even if it didn't, it couldn't. I don't know, maybe in English 'Silence' means yelling louder than everyone else so nobody can hear them. If so, let me know in the comments. So this inspired me to design a new shirt. 'Thinking of supporting the project?' 'At least make sure it works on paper!!' In conclusion, here's how Muzo works in all the modes. Let me read you a passage (total silence) Well. I'm sorry. But all it does is to drown unwanted noise in wanted noise, like any other speaker. We definitely can't cancel noise, and it doesn't seem to be able to cancel surface vibration Maybe it's how this is supposed to work, but I think people who watch the Muzo video backed it because they thought it actually does active noise-cancelling If Muzo doesn't agree with my results or thinks this unit is broken I'll be more than happy to get a functional unit and retry and eat my words if it actually works Giveaway... Well before that, can you believe YouTube has given our beloved Cody's channel multiple strikes, and it's in danger? I'm sure YouTube will resolve it, but in the meantime watch his video in my description and subscribe to his backup channel. ...Time! I'm running out of space in my tiny room and as much as I like to keep my Delta Go 3D printer. I have to part ways and give it away to my patrons at patreon.com. Thanks a lot for your support