Transcriber: Vivian Lim One of these things I bet you've got questions. (Laughter) Most people do. Hey, they said I could wear as long as it doesn't And in my case, the outfit is the idea. I didn't always dress like this. A few years ago, I was playing it I wore the middle-aged mom uniform: black, semi-athletic &quot;invisiwear.&quot; (Laughter) I wanted to belong, but blending in In fact, I was playing the world's I made myself disappear, But when I dress like this, and someone says, we've connected. Now that game is a lot more fun. And the amazing thing is that can actually help us So, every Tuesday, I dress like this and I talk to people. It was scary at first. I was pretty nervous about fitting out But this weekly experiment and my closet for the better. Now I definitely feel like I give compliments more generously, and I receive them more graciously. Mutual appreciation - that's the best game going. So why would we want &quot;Don't talk to strangers.&quot; We all heard that, right? But what if avoiding strangers Researchers keep telling us and it's cutting our lives short depression, cancer. What can save us is connection. And people are everywhere - at the gym, at the grocery store, Smiles, waves, greetings, chats between health and disease, But where do you start if talking as playing in traffic? This is my strategy (Laughter) For me, dressing up When I put it all together, Wherever I go, I notice other people And I say, &quot;Whoa, look at you!&quot; And then they're like, (Laughter) And then we're laughing It's like a party, but no one (Laughter) You can enjoy this too. And you don't even have (Laughter) But you do have to build a bridge I asked research psychologist about her work studying and what she thought of my Tuesday thing. She told me ... &quot;It makes sense that your special clothing It makes people pay attention. And you can't have a conversation It gives people something to say And my research suggests that people OK, how will you give permission? Maybe try adding one noticeable item I call that the &quot;Hello Zone.&quot; (Laughter) It could be a pin or a flower, a cool hat, glasses that are amazing, Really, anything you wear There's a guy in Australia a four-foot papier-mache carrot because - (Laughter) because it makes people smile Hey, it works. I think adding a little flair is an easier way to offer Hey, I'm wearing at least (Laughter) You could wear one. (Laughter) And honestly, the fun But yeah, there are Tuesdays When I'm stressed out or feeling low, I just want to stay home But I put myself together because those are the Tuesdays to be seen and beheld. I love that word &quot;beheld.&quot; When we are seen, we feel we belong. And belonging Every Tuesday, I'm just reminding myself is right outside my door. So you might be wondering Well, I've always been a fan but I wasn't wearing it to run my errands. But one Saturday in July 2019, I got all decked out in a polka dot dress to help out with my friend's vintage fair. People chased me down (Laughter) how much they loved that outfit. Some even said that it made their day. Really, the clothes I wear If I'd been schlumping around (Laughter) would anyone's day have been made? So I declared to the random guy next to me that I was making an official commitment one day a week for a year. And I chose Tuesdays because nothing fun (Laughter) Eight months later, in March 2020, social distancing Still, every Tuesday, I got dressed up. It confirmed my intention even from six feet away. Back at home, I would put on something because have you noticed the clothes even our productivity. It's powerful stuff! Part self-care, part public service. Being splendid wasn't just It was lifting others. But for many people, months of social isolation made style seem irrelevant. Yet they dreaded going anywhere, saying, &quot;Oh God, I hope nobody sees me like this.&quot; (Laughter) They cut themselves off from connection I think we got stuck in that pattern. We are terrified to be noticed, but we are dying to be seen. We have got to start talking Changes and breakdowns are going to force us to. But hey, why not start now? My dad is a biophysicist. He's been telling me for years when we're exposed And Lord knows every one of us and probably mutating like mad. (Laughter) He thinks my social because as individuals and communities, we're already facing extreme challenges, Each warm connection with a stranger So it's time to stop hiding. Reveal yourself. It takes some courage, you're choosing better health for yourself Don't wait for a wedding or a funeral. Go ahead and be splendid - next Tuesday or any day. Rock your style and share a smile. You are the special occasion. Dress for it! Thank you. (Cheers and applause)