- This is me running as I'm being hunted by an animal specifically trained to find humans. Because today, not only how tracking dogs do what they do, but we're gonna test and debunk the five most common bloodhound myths. And for this final showdown in the woods, she has one hour to find me, but what she doesn't know and engineered up every to give me some glimmer of hope against her unfair, superhuman advantages. But as preparation for in order to understand the I first extended an invite to CrunchLabs to run through some basic tests starting off with a simple This, by the way, is Now what makes Shay so as a volunteer, expert, for over 30 years, which means she and her dogs have But have they ever seen this? I mean, could you find me amongst all these tastefully Because all I see is a guy with incredible-flowing Jimmy Knorp hair. Now, as for Zinka, after she made pretty quick (Zinka barking) Do I smell that bad? It was me all along Shay. So outta the gate, I'd learned two things. First was that even an Go get it. Still enjoys the game of And the second was Zinka's - This is a German shepherd. For our first of five regarding scent-trailing dogs, these days, bloodhounds The most common dog breed for search dogs are German Shepherds like Zinka, because research shows at discerning smells as a bloodhound, but they're also extremely intelligent. Shay explained that is like Zinka finding the puzzle pieces, but it takes her intelligence to put the pieces of the puzzle together. And now that we've cleared that up, it was time to run some real tests. All right, Shay, the hiding test. Can she find me hiding in the lab? Everyone's dispersed out there. I got a good hiding place too. - [Shay] But I need a scent article. - What works is a scent article? - Your wallet. - (laughing) My wallet. How about my watch? - Okay. There you go. - So I was off to my killer hiding spot, and after a quick pizza distraction, I threw my first curve ball instead of the stairs to Then it was up the other under a blanket of cubes in the foam pit. Yeah, bury me. See if she can find me in And you can see here just to sniff my watch to Outta the gate, you could see she also falls for the pizza distraction. - [Shay] Don't eat the pizza. - [Mark] And then walk where at least to her nose, I had somehow just teleported away. (Zinka barking) And while this might Shay was onto my antics to my trail below, which as you might have guessed, Oh no. (Zinka barking) How you... Well, I'm gonna get you on the next one. Okay, Ryan, are you good at hide and seek? How good? - Whoa! For this next round, I wanted to test something that I found really hard to believe. - If multiple people touch an article, they can scent discriminate and find one person out of all of them. - I need some volunteers. I just rub this on their arms, right? Basically six of us onto a single paper towel Then only Ryan jumped and went to hide throughout the lab. And as long as the other five of us started off next to Zinka, apparently she could do the math, isolate just Ryan's then identify it among that led down the stairs, which is just certifiably bonkers. That's it? - That's this, by the way, is where that puzzle-solving intelligence, I mentioned earlier... I know where he's sitting. Comes into play. Ah! It's borderline witchcraft. That was nothing short of magic. What the heck is going on? (Zinka barking) - Which honestly I took as a challenge. So we doubled the number of arms to rub on that single paper towel to 12, which meant she would now have to isolate the single missing person then track only that scent amongst all the remaining decoys. That's crazy. So she's eliminating - Lets go search. And honestly, this one somehow (Mark laughing) No way! - [Shay] Good girl! - Bonkers! Good work. Actually bad work. You got found. I lost another bet. For the final test, I wanted to investigate the potential myth that the reason Zinka can is because she's actually of everyone's unique DNA left That hypothesis would also explain why even though my hat, watch and arm all smell totally different, she still knows they all belong to me. The problem was that to test the myth, I need to somehow find two people with exactly identical DNA, Welcome to CrunchLabs. So the plan was to get a scent article from one identical twin but not the other and then see which one Zinka would go for. Go hide! To remove any doubt, hide in plain sight exactly along the path to the right twin. Wow. And there was no question to secure the win. Which meant the and Zinka is in fact just picking up on complex scent molecules that contain unique chemical compounds for every single person. And at this point, while I'd already identified in Zinka's armor that I could exploit for our final showdown in the forest. But I can only learn so with only 25 volunteers. So what if I could find on a much, much larger playing field? And this beautiful college provided me the perfect opportunity. My thought was that the plethora of interesting might obscure my own scent trail. On top of that, having I had some opportunities some of my scent molecules before finally receiving There's no possible way What do you need from me? - A scent article. - A sock would be great. - Me or her? - Both of you. And with that, I made my grand escape with a generous 45-minute head start. Okay, there are people everywhere. It's like really windy today. The wind's going this way so Keep my scent down wind. There was no time to waste. There was barely any time to waste. And so I did what I could to leave my personal molecules behind all around campus. I wasn't exactly sure what it would take to ward off Zinka and Shay, Parkour! I just knew it had to look cool. She'll never figure this out. This is terrifying. I feel like I'm being hunted. I guess because that's There's a bunch of people over here. I was going for a big loop once I saw the number of when an opportunity just to express some - Bro! who subscribe to my channel. There you go. Hug it out, you know! - Thank you. this was kind of my checkmate move. A dog might be chasing Hey, give me five, I'm being Can I give you five? I'm being hunted by a bloodhound. - Really? There is no possible way The worst part about all this is I have no sock on my right shoe. I'm actually parked up here in a garage. If this dog finds me, I'd made it to my final hiding spot with a few minutes to spare. That's my car. This is basically a massive Ziploc bag. All right, I'm laying low here in my car. I feel the need to whisper, even though there'd be But not long after, the timer was up. - [Shay] Let's go search. - And Zinka quickly got to work. And right outta the gate, I tripped her up as she stopped at my bench But eventually she realized and she carried on her search. I don't really have any she's found my scent or not. And while she wasn't that the same can't be said for the (bell dings) Nope. Leave it. - I'm gonna pull a dirty trick. I'm moving spots. Is this cheating? Absolutely. And unfortunately for me, she just totally short circuited But then she seemed to get caught up with all the scents in near the parking garage. And while stopping to smell This is terrifying. When she bee-lined for I thought I might actually but not even my dirty tricks could overcome her lock on my dirty socks. No... ...way. What the crap? (Mark laughing) No way! How is that even remotely possible? Does it smell that bad? So while I did have some amongst all our testing, I knew I needed to consult Someone who was a personal hero of mine, and the true OG when it Mr. Adam Savage. The cave! but it's been a few years. but there's nothing like The organized chaos of it all. And so after briefly soaking in his incredible Cave of Wonders, we got right down to business. I'm here, Adam, because I need help. Bloodhounds, am I right? - That was one of my we ever did was the bloodhound. - In addition to talking about scent-trailing dogs over the years, we talked about the best mental model for even understanding Because one way to think about it, is everywhere you go, you leave behind a trail In fact, it doesn't or even standing still, you into the air every minute. So to a dog's nose, the trail of all those might look like this with a But instead of six unique she would need to have at since she can ostensibly tell down to identical twins. Additionally, if she knew your scent and then you used a and tried out a new cologne, she would still know you And that might seem like but to give you some sense of how a brain might work that out, let me ask you a question. Do you recognize this person? How about this person or this one? We kind of think of it as no big deal, but your brain also just out of 8 billion people on this because our brains don't have that same unique identifying capability for, like say, every And furthermore, just how if I'm wearing a different cologne, you can still tell us Steph Curry, even if he's wearing a hat or sunglasses or heck, even both. To continue the analogy further, the way her brain catalogs is the equivalent of the a unique face from a missing person flyer. And to further defend the for myth number three, that across the board we're at identifying smells, cuz in a few areas, we're actually better. For example, you can practically smell That's because we can that enter the air after at one part per 10 billion. That's 100 times more when identifying blood. We know in the desert, to locate sources of oasis water. And so it stands to reason, it provided an evolutionary advantage to our ancient ancestors as well. Now, as for Adam, I'll return he gave me in just a minute, but for now, after of course having him sign my original MythBusters blueprint, I showed myself out the door. I might take a few things on my way out. - No worries, man. Whenever you want. - You heard him. (laughing) Here we go. Ah! So after my discussion with Adam and poring over all the footage from all our tests from every angle, I was feeling a renewed confidence. I'd pinpointed a few and if you were paying attention, you might have picked up which meant all I had to do now was exploit those weaknesses (intriguing music) And so after jamming all my it was time to head out to for the final showdown. But before we get to are you already bored this summer? (explosion blasts) (dramatic music) 'Cause if so, oh boy, have I got the answer for you? And it's called Camp CrunchLabs. It's kind of a 12-week virtual summer camp featuring weekly videos with and then weekly challenges that you do. And the best weekly challenge submission of the whole summer gets a platinum ticket to come out right here to be in the 12th and final (air blasts) On top of that, usually where we build a really fun toy together where I teach you all the comes every month. But to coincide with the Camp CrunchLabs' weekly videos and challenges, you have the option to - Yes! Look! - So if you want a 12-week summer camp where you can learn to with 0% chance of sunburn head to campcrunchlabs.com where you can reserve and I'll see you at summer camp. Shoo. All right, Shay, I got my bag of tricks. May the best human or canine win. Here we go. It's game on. And thus began the final showdown. My plan was to lay seven along the route that I had And the rules were, once and arrived at my final And if she couldn't track me I'd be declared the winner. And shortly after regretting not having checked the weather forecast... Picked a bad day to wear a down jacket. I was ready to set my From Berkeley, I knew so I would tie one of my to a drone and set it on a timer delay and then I would sneak And of course, I knew my way more scent molecules than my sock, but the time delay would mean that when the drone flew the eventually veering off the from the server motor in the bushes, that scent would be much for Zinka to hopefully follow. All right, this one might And now that I was off the I found the perfect Smells gross. I knew for reviewing the Berkeley footage that Zinka was extremely Taxidermied squirrel. Not Shay later confirmed this and let it slip it was a and their smell that she So between train-track squirrel our bases were covered. Now obviously, this trap The idea here, was given and their one-hour time limit, every precious minute I got them to waste would increase my chances. After that, I continued up the until I came to another perfect for my third of seven traps. I wanted to lay another deceptive trail of my scent molecules going the wrong way in case the drone sock didn't work out. Only this time, to really cover my bases, I was going for a three-pronged approach. This land-based vehicle, would've one of my sock in a compartment with a fan that would blow out my scent and then another sock Make some nice sock soup. That would spray out my scent in case the scent molecules And then for the third, (sighs) The part I'm I'd have to go straight to the source. Using a cheese grater, I harvested some actual pieces of meat combined with some sawdust, it would slowly leave behind along with the other two methods as the rover misleadingly roved along. And by the way, these cuz we ran some tests on Zinka showing she could easily isolate my scent using all three of these approaches. You got earth, wind, What I don't have is a change of socks. Dang it. So with everything set and I socklessly set out to And this next one is a doozy. This is basically a just without the plane. The thinking here was when I used the fireman's piston cuz my scent trail just seemed to stop. Additionally, after reviewing I noticed the reason she got caught up on the bushes outside the parking garage was thanks to the strong crosswind blowing my scent off the sidewalk. So what if I took that to 11 with some 95-mile-an-hour, Ah! Yeah! Yes! I lost all my clothes, but I also lost a lot Good luck with that, Shay. And since Zinka would to follow my scent off the road in the direction of the wind, I picked a random spot to sneak on a trail leading straight to the heart of the redwood forest. And there was a stream so I took the opportunity to test the idea that dogs can't track you that's sweeping the scent away. Oh. Which was super awesome when you're already hiking without socks. From there it was all to cover a lot of ground With five of my traps I was feeling confident nothing on the task at ha- Oh, wow! (laughing) Yeah! All right. Back to the hunt. (gentle music) I can't pretend I'm in shape anymore. Which was good timing because it was time for my sixth and possibly strongest trap of the all. I've got some big plans I'm gonna put a bunch of The idea is to overwhelm And believe me when I say, at this point, I don't smell that great. The genesis for this idea came from seeing how Zinka where I spent a long time waiting. Because there was just a ton of my scent molecules lingering around versus the relatively small for my single exit trail. And for part two to I had a special surprise. The bunny suit. I spent about five months every day at NASA as I tested on the Mars rover. As you can probably guess by now, the purpose of those those 40,000 skin cells so we don't send the rover contaminating it with life of our own. And so with my bunny suit on, I would practically become invisible to Zinka's nose for my escape. Let's go. But to further tip the scales, I held my breath as I ran away. And if by some miracle, Shay I had two final tricks up my sleeve. I knew Zinka was incredibly because she would go for any Plus that's how Shay rewarded her when she successfully found her target. In one of our conversations, that her favorite foods And wouldn't you know it, but I just stumbled upon a That's gonna take her the Oh yeah, that's a good meal. (laughing) And then if somehow she I'm walking right in so all my scent goes out into the valley. And this is where I will sit All right, team, I am in position. If she's ready to go, - Good to go. Clock starts... ...now. She has an hour to get I just have to sit here and wait. Not long before they started, my drone had taken off right on schedule and dropped the payload And exactly as I'd hoped, Zinka and you could see her as she starts heading right But then you can almost see that it wouldn't be a typical search. - [Team Member] All right, mark She went right by. - Oh no. (chuckles) There's no doubt at this point I was dealing with the true professional, but I was confident that I could throw off her game and waste a considerable - [Team Member] Well, (playful music) What's not the love? (music continues) Did it throw her off? - Stop chasing it. Let's go. - [Team Member] She's - [Mark] This actually brings us to our fourth of five myths. These dogs aren't working alone. - It's not just a thing It is a partnership between You don't get one doing their without the other. - And in hindsight, I but it wasn't something Shay's there to help Zinka stay focused, and if she's stumped, she can to help her find the trail again. Just like when I jumped and Zinka was sure I'd teleported until Shay Deuced what probably happened. Hopefully they lost valuable time there. That counts for something. But Shay wouldn't be much help where I was pleased to hear the Mark Rover had initiated its time-delayed Dutifully wafting, spraying and littering a fresh trail of me as it roved This was a massive level which meant they were it almost felt unf- - What do you mean it didn't work? Did she at least follow it a little? - [Team Member] Just a little. But really where you were walking. She went back on track. - Not cool, Zinka. Not cool. No way she gets my mega fan. I'm calling that right now. I lost my jacket and one of so I really wanted this to work. And this time, I was not disappointed. - [Team Member] It looks like - We got a hit. - [Team Member] She is as that wind. - She really seemed to be confused about what her nose was telling her and sensing this and Shay put two and two together and called her back up to look elsewhere. But then when Zinka hit Shay assumed it was another bad signal and called her off again. And this is where you can really see the mutual trust they have for each other. Because eventually Zinka &quot;Nah, I know it. This At which point Shay understood and they headed down - [Team Member] Oh, she's back on track. - What? - Dang it. It sounds like a With the ravine and the water, this could be my... This could be good. - [Team Member] She seems She's frolicking along. - Frolicking? - [Team Member] This - [Mark] What do you mean the fastest? - [Team Member] She's moving Seems like the smell is right on the water. I'm glad I have 12 blisters and like really nasty, smelly Shay would later confirm this but scent molecules are meaning they stick strongly to the water and the edges of the stream, making it in fact easier to track than just a normal path on land. And since Zinka was feeling refreshed from all that stream frolicking, she had no problem keeping up the pace for this endurance portion cuz she was about to hit How close is she to the clearing? - [Team Member] She's almost here. - Okay, I think this is I'd spent about 20 minutes just trudging around this clearing. - [Shay] Now you're done. We're on a roll. - Leaving an overwhelming number of my scent molecules behind... If you get too discouraged let me know and I'll come down the hill. Before putting on my NASA which meant at least from the I had effectively disappeared. - [Team Member] Wow. No hesitation. She went right through. - What? Really? Zinka, you're killing me! I think my minutes are numbered. Ah! She is on her way up this hill. She's got about 15 minutes left. But if the chicken of cheese I may have a glimmer of hope here. - Nope. Get to work. No. Hey, get to work. - [Team Member] Oh, it totally worked. - Yes. (Shay smooches) - [Team Member] At the second bowl now. - [Shay] I know those are good. - [Team Member] Oh, of chicken and cheese. - She's working her way up the bowls of the chicken and cheese. - Munching away. - Clock's ticking, Shay. If I'd only quadrupled my I might have stood a she immediately backtracked down the fork and headed straight for me. It's nerve-racking. But then, at what only could be described as an 11th-hour salvation, seemed to trip her up and heading back down the path. - [Team Member] It's interesting, she came back down towards the bowls. - [Shay] Come here, Zink, come on. Oh, more. Knowing there was time to spare, she apparently was just flexing on me and double checking the bowls So with a full belly and she led Shay around the bushes No! (Shay laughing) - Good girl! Bad girl! That is like indistinguishable from magic. And as I sulked in my loss with all of us overlooking the valley, I asked Shay why she's been volunteering around 20 hours a week for over 30 years working with search-and-rescue dogs. - Hopefully bring a good conclusion to a very stressful time for a family. - And so for the hopes of many I suppose my loss really seems like the The best mammal won. You Oh. Opa! In my ongoing quest to I built a fire-extinguisher-powered (Mark screaming) And then I challenged my nephews to make it across my (all laughing) Now these are both part which is a virtual summer camp to help you fight both boredom (explosion blasts) But it's also an example of that's just automatically included when you have a CrunchLabs subscription. That means, on top of delivered right through where we build a really fun toy together, as I teach you all the of how they work, you also like behind-the-scenes content On top of that, CrunchLabs So every month, we randomly select one box to slip in a platinum ticket, and if it happens to be your box... - [Father] Oh my God! You won, buddy. - Oh my God! - Then you're coming out right here to design with me and my team for the day. So if you want to unlock the superpower of learning how to create and build whatever you can dream or use the link in the video Thanks for watching. Yes. Nailed it. (bubble pops)