Royal food tasters have been tasting the testing them for poison for thousands of years. Though the practice isn't foolproof because if the person adding the poison is the food taster themselves well the whole system kind of breaks down. And that is exactly what happened with Claudius who died after dining on his favorite dish of mushrooms. So thank you to Squarespace for sponsoring this video as I try NOT to poison myself on these ancient Roman honey glazed mushrooms this time on Tasting History. Being a royal food taster has to be one of the Yes you do get to eat some of the best food that there is but there is a possibility that you might die doing it. So it's no wonder that once in a while the food tasters went rogue, and that seems to be what happened in 54 AD when Halotus who is the first named food taster that I could find probably poisoned his boss. So the Emperor Claudius It had been a time of prosperity and expansion in Claudius's personal life, much of which had to do See they both entered into the marriage already And among others Claudius had a son, Britannicus, and Agrippina had a son Nero, you might have heard of him. Well Claudius adopts Nero and takes him on as his own son, and decides that the two, after he dies, the two boys will rule the Roman empire together because that's going to work out. Well for a while things are going honky dory, but eventually the marriage between Claudius and Agrippina starts to kind of go on the skids, and Claudius is overheard complaining that he has and that maybe he regret adopting Nero So &quot;That the Roman people may at last have a genuine Caesar.&quot; Ouch. Well Agrippina is not the kind of person to let her son be passed over so she allegedly, and this is all alleged, she allegedly goes to a well-known poison maker named Locusta. And she gets this poison and this is where the food taster Halotus comes into the story because he is the one who supposedly does the deed. According to Tacitus the poison was &quot;....administered whose regular duty was to bring in and taste the dishes. So notorious, later, were the whole proceedings that authors of the period have recorded that the poison was sprinkled on But it seems that the poison didn't do what it was supposed to do because Claudius got sick and threw up the poison. So &quot;Agrippina fell back on the complicity of the doctor Xenophon. He, it is believed, undercover of assisting the Emperor's struggle to vomit, plunged a feather dipped in a quick poison, down his throat...&quot; It's like in The Emperor's New Groove where the poison, the poison to kill Kuzco doesn't work, and so they have to hit him on the head. Now the ancient authors kind of disagree on some of the details of the story. Some say that Halotus wasn't actually the one to administer the poison but clearly he didn't do his job very well regardless. And did he get fired? No. No he did not because Nero who then became Emperor after they also poisoned Britannicus, little pattern... He hired Halotus to be his royal food taster so kind of makes me think, maybe he was in on it? And even later under Galba who was the next Emperor, Halotus gets a big old promotion to procurator. Talk about failing upwards. But the moral of the story is if you fear you better make sure that you really trust your royal food taster... or you can do as I'm going to do and just make the food yourself. Now since Claudius died eating mushrooms I decided to look through the ancient Roman text 'Apicius' and find a recipe for &quot;Another Method for Mushrooms&quot;. &quot;Place the chopped stalks in a clean pan, adding pepper, lovage, and a little honey. Mix with garum, add a little oil.&quot; Super simple and rather different than I feel mushrooms are typically prepared today. Now most of these ancient Roman recipes call for the mushroom cap and stem to be served differently, they're prepared kind of differently and if you want to just use the stems that's fine but I'm not going to be making another dish so I would just throw away a bunch of mushroom caps which seems wasteful so I am going to use both. So for this recipe what you'll need is 1/2 pounds or 225 grams of small mushrooms. I am separating the stems and cutting the heads in half just so they cook evenly. 2 tablespoons of olive oil, 1 teaspoon of pepper. I'm using long pepper which was beloved by the ancient Romans. And frankly I think it'a little bit better than regular black pepper so I'll put a link in the description to where you can get some of that but you can use either 2 to 3 tablespoons of fresh lovage or celery leaves chopped fine. 1 tablespoon of honey, and 1 tbsp of garum. This is the ancient Roman fish sauce that I have actually made here on the channel before, and if you don't want to make it, and you probably shouldn't, I will put a link to where you can get some that is excellent in the description but if you just want to use a fish sauce of any kind that works. So first whisk the honey and garum together in a small bowl then whisk in the ground pepper. Then heat the oil in a heavy pan large enough that the mushrooms when added can sit in the pan in a single layer, and then saute the mushrooms over medium high heat coating them in the oil for 2 to 3 minutes, and then pour in the honey and garum mixture and coat the mushrooms in that. Sprinkle in the lovage leaves and reduce the heat to medium low and let the mushrooms simmer until most of the liquid has evaporated and you're left with a lovely glaze. This should take 3 to 5 minutes, and while the liquid reduces I wanted to mention that I'm going to start putting out a newsletter every week or so with some of the history and stuff that I don't get to and some of the books and articles that I use for research and other cool little history things that I just think are interesting. So if you want to sign up for that I'm going to put a link in the description to the website tasting history.com and just go to the bottom and you can sign up for that, but before you do that let me tell you a little bit more about the history of one of the worst jobs royal food taster. Food tasters have been around since time immemorial because there seems to be something about being rich and powerful that makes you paranoid that people are trying to poison your food. And that paranoia actually might be rather well-founded especially if you're kind of a jerk. Now one of history's most famous paranoiacs was Mark Anthony the lover of Cleopatra. Now often when we think of Antony and Cleopatra we think of this wonderful love affair but really they did not have a healthy relationship at all. Neither of them trusted each other all that much and Pliny &quot;Antonius held the queen in such extreme distrust as to be in dread of her very attentions even, and would not so much as touch his food unless another person had tasted it first.&quot; Well for some reason Cleopatra thought this was funny and decided to play a little practical joke on Anthony by circumventing the food taster. So before this big banquet that they were going but she dipped each flour in poison. Well the banquet begins and the food taster tests all of Mark Antony's food and his wine, and everything seems to be good, doesn't die. So things are going along and partway through the banquet and Cleopatra says hey Mark Antony I triple dog dare you to take one of my flowers and drink it in your wine. And if 'A Christmas Story' has taught us anything it is See he'd been wary of the wine being poisoned but and he didn't think that she would be crazy enough to wear poison flowers in her hair, but she was, and so she took one of these poison flowers and popped it in his wine. Then &quot;Just as Antonius was on the very point of drinking. She arrested his arm with her hand - 'Behold Marcus 'The woman against whom you are so careful to take these new precautions of yours in employing your tasters!'... Saying this, she ordered a man to be brought from prison, and made him drink off the potion; he did so and fell dead upon the spot.&quot; In some versions of the story it's actually the food taster who has to end up trying it and he is the one that died but regardless very toxic relationship between these two. And I feel like the lesson to be learned here is if you're you got to use him all the time. Maimonides is the 12th century physician for Saladin wrote a treatise all about poisons and how to protect oneself and he talks about how He actually says the person tasting it should be the person who has offered it to you. And &quot;He should not be satisfied with eating only a mouthful, as I have seen done by the cooks of kings in their presence.&quot; He also says you should take some personal responsibility and learn to identify foods that have been poisoned or Basically any foods that are &quot;sour, pungent, or Also ill smelling dishes or those prepared with onion or garlic. All these foods are best taken from a reliable person, above all suspicion, because the way to harm by poison is only to those foods which assimilate the poisonous taste and smell, as well as the poison's appearance and consistency.&quot; But even with these precautions sometimes on occasion you might accidentally ingest some poison at which point you need to do like Claudius did and try to throw it up. Maimonides says that the best thing to do is to induce vomiting and then have some milk or butter, or best case scenario you have a rooster around because &quot;It is said that the excrements of roosters Though I feel like that's just kind of swapping one poison with another but what do I know. Now poisoning has always been a popular way by the late Middle Ages and the Renaissance poisoning had become really in fashion. By the 15th century anyone who was anyone had food tasters because especially in places like Italy and the papal states poisoning had become quite common or at least people thought that it had become common. Families like the Medici were famous for taking a reputation which is probably not as real as people thought that it was, but the fact that people thought that they were poisoning everyone put everyone on edge. In the late 16th century Gaspar de Guzman the powerful Duke of Olivares freaked out at a dinner in Valencia when &quot;having taken his first drink and tasting very unnatural flavor in the wine, he feared poisoning and jumped away from the table in a great fury asking for remedies. Meanwhile, the wine steward having heard what was going on, reassured his Excellency that the bad taste resulted from his not having rinsed the wine flask well after washing it with vinegar and salt. When the steward then proceeded to drink the same wine, Olivares finally calmed down.&quot; So it wasn't poisoned, you just gave me a dirty cup to drink out of... &gt;_&gt;.... you're still fired. Now further north in England the clergy as well as the nobility were so paranoid of being poisoned that not only did they but they had them kiss anything that might come in In 1465 at a feast for an archbishop it was written that 'Then the carver taketh the napkin from his shoulder and kisseth it for his assay, and delivereth to the Lord. Then taketh he the spoon, drieth it and kisseth it for his assay... In the meantime the sewer goeth to the dresser and there taketh assay of every dish, and doth give it to the steward and the cook to King Henry VIII took it a step further and had and his daughter Queen Elizabeth I was also paranoid of being poisoned and maybe for good reason because it was suspected that the king of Spain was actually trying to hatch a plot to poison her. Supposedly it was going to be done via her 70-year-old physician Rodrigo Lopez who had fled Spain from the Spanish Inquisition. There was really no evidence against him and he had no reason to hurt the queen, but there was a lot of hatred against him partly because he was Jewish and so he ended up being executed even though everyone kind of knew that he wasn't guilty. And it was around this same time that a German traveler and later wrote down what he was seeing in regards &quot;At length came a certain unmarried Countess... accompanied by a noble matron bearing the food taster's knife, and when she had curtsied three times with the greatest of decorum she then approached the table, and wiped the plates with salt and bread... After she had remained for a while by the table the Royal bodyguards arrived... bringing in twenty-four courses in turn on silver plates A certain nobleman received each course from them one at a time, and placed them on the table; a lady food taster gave each bodyguard a mouthful to eat from the plate he bore lest there be any suspicion of poison.&quot; Now you got to realize that at this time pretty much all of the poisons available took at least an hour to kick in so they would often taste the food then wait an hour before giving it to the queen so everything was going to get served cold. Now the idea of royal food taster, or food taster in general does seem rather antiquated but it's not gone. Rather recently there have been food tasters employed especially by maniacal evil leaders who are in fear of being poisoned, Adolf Hitler for example he had a team of food tasters. And Margot Wolk who was one of them came out to tell her story. See she and her family were not in good graces with the Nazi party. Her father was actually taken away because he wouldn't join and she refused to participate in the league of German girls. Well following some bombings in Berlin she and it happened to be that this small town was right near the Wolf's Lair where Hitler set up his Eastern Front headquarters. &quot;I'd hardly arrived when the SS showed up at the door and demanded, 'Come with us!' &quot; At that point she became one of 15 girls at the Wolf's Lair who tested Hitler's food for poison. &quot;The food was delicious, only the best vegetables, asparagus, bell peppers, everything you can imagine. And always with a side of rice or pasta... but this constant fear- We knew of all these poisoning rumors and could never enjoy the food. Every day we feared it was going to be our last meal... We cried a lot and hugged each other. We asked each other: 'Will we still be alive tomorrow or not?' &quot; The girls would eat the food and then wait an hour and then if they hadn't died the food would be taken to Hitler. Following a failed attempt on his life in 1944, not by poisoning, but by a suitcase bomb the girls were rounded up and basically put in uh captivity at the Wolf's Lair And only when the Soviet Army came through did did Margot escape but she was the only one to escape, all of the other food tasters died. Now that Soviet Army of course was under the control of Joseph Stalin who also employed a food taster though instead of using someone he thought was expendable he would only use someone who he absolutely trusted Sasha Egnatashvili. Now Sasha was friends with Stalin when they were boys and many have actually claimed that they were even half brothers though Stalin's true paternity is unknown so it's impossible to know if they actually were. But regardless they were very good friends and he trusted Sasha, and so he put Sasha in charge of all of his big banquets and state dinners and and basically any time that he was eating. And eventually he even became his food taster earning him the nickname The Rabbit. What I found fascinating is that since Sasha was in charge of these big banquets he employed a number of cooks, and one of those cooks had cooked for a lot of famous Russians, not only Stalin, but also Vladimir Lenin, and Grigori Rasputin. And that chef has a famous grandson, his grandson is Vladimir Putin who also uses taste testers because he's paranoid of being poisoned. Now I personally am not paranoid of being poisoned so I don't need a food tester to taste these ancient Roman mushrooms. And here we are honeyed mushrooms from ancient Rome. Now I say I don't need a food taster but I actually I don't actually care for mushrooms. It's They squeak when I bite into them but we'll see how I- we'll see how I like them today. Here we go. squeaky mushroom noise: =D Hm! The flavors really good. You know what this reminds me of, honey glazed cashews or something like that but then you get that earthiness of the mushroom. It's actually a really nice combination and then a little spice from the pepper. That's a complicated dish. I actually like that. If I liked mushrooms, I would love that on maybe a different vegetable or I bet you'd really, really like this especially because I feel like sweet and mushroom don't often go together today but this is that combination of those two flavors which is pretty cool. Also I got to point out this this tiny little spoon, I got it in England and it is a replica of an ancient Roman spoon that they found in the old Roman town at Canterbury and I just thought it was really cool. Jose says it makes me look like the Hand of the King. Either way tiny spoon, good tasting dish. So as always I'm going to put this recipe up on the Tasting History website. That is also where you'll go to sign up for the forthcoming newsletter, just one of the many benefits you get when you make a website with today's sponsor Squarespace. Squarespace has a suite of tools for keeping in and if you're running a business with customers you can set up email campaigns to keep people up to-date on new products or developments, and you can also see how they perform using the analytics and metrics tools. And those tools are just as easy to use as all of the tools on Squarespace. It is so easy to set up a website using their dynamic tools like the drag and drop technology for both desktop and mobile, and they have lots of templates so while you can customize them however you like you at least have a good base to start with if you don't know nothing about building websites. So if you're looking to build a website go tosquarespace.com for a free trial and when you're ready to launch you can go to squarespace.com/tastinghistory to get 10% off of your first purchase of a website or domain and I will see you next time on Tasting History.