We've got well over 400 fact, in ballroom number There will be three other north and two of them this. There's a boom happening And we're not talking America's second biggest for manufacturing the microchips. Now, because we have access to materials, doing business, we are next generation of chip The integrated circuit was Instruments more than 60 Silicon Valley in held the title for, well, silicon. But as the cost smaller transistors has size of the machines and to do it. Texas is spacious. It's huge. And then it has great business. Now manufacturing chips on soil is a growing geopolitical tensions The Chips Act set aside reshoring production. Samsung, Texas GlobalWafers, NXP, these chip giants have the Lone Star State. Apple and Amazon chose custom chips, too. Tell me why we are called bunny suits. These beautiful bunny product clean. So this is We change out all of the So if you ever see an looks like a space We got a rare look inside huge chip fabrication Texas and took a tour of total of $47 billion in the state. While chip companies have expansions in the last states actually had ties more than 90 years since Geophysical Service Inc., reimagined in 1951, Instruments. The building block of invented three years William Shockley, a Valley. But it was Jack that first filed for a circuit in 1958. This invention opened up miniaturizing chips by circuit, not just the silicon. TI went on to calculator in 1967, and today for graphing classrooms around the It is very much so the of the world. But we are Obviously, you have an almost certainly have a inside of it. So we have out to 100,000 different So whether it's analog, importantly, think about into a wall or that has a a power management IC in Kyle Flessner has been He showed us around TI's north of Dallas. With this second bigger September, TI plans to million analog chips per Richardson. So this is our overhead We've got about 15 miles factories, and those cars and a half miles an hour. And Flessner took us to TI's $30 billion fab person city of Sherman, We're standing under the That's what it's commonly So it's a clean room up The air comes through, that support all of that Our fab uses only 300 is fully automated. Samsung is the state's The South Korean giant breaking ground on a big fully devoted to foundry outside customers. Samsung opened a second Everything is supposed to Texas. Texas does indeed have gigantic footprint of Now, Samsung is adding a site in Taylor, 30 miles plans to make its first starting next year. Our customers love to come It's equidistant from that some of the world's companies are actually in Bringing Taylor on board their ability to source and not have to go into they may have some Texas has long been famous new businesses. It's one states with no income Combine that with sales manufacturing machinery waivers, and it's no major companies have Texas lately. There's Gigafactory in Austin, relocated their recently include Schwab, Hewlett-Packard Now, the chip industry incentives. In June, Chips Act, setting aside companies that as well as universities R&amp;D centers. Texas ranks number one in one research 100 mile area of where located, they have access intellectual talent. It's not hard to see why at the center of the about reshoring chip half a trillion worth of globally in 2022, and than 300,000 jobs in the Chips are vital not only phones and computers, but military communication and advanced weaponry. And when peaking demand coincided with supply resulting chip shortage how much the world relies As of 2021, 92% of the chips were made in Taiwan Manufacturing Company, threatened to invade cut the U.S. off from the chips. One thing that we've hostilities, and that is hostile countries for our So the United States of that we are manufacturing We learned that during shall not make that Over the last 30 plus share of global chip from 37% to just 12%. That's because it costs and operate a new fab in than in Asia. Labor is The supply chain is more incentives are far The Chips Act aims to 52 billion for companies And Texas hopes to get as dollars as possible. Since the National Chips 2020, more than 50 new have been announced in 44,000 new jobs and billion of investment. More than $61 billion of Texas, with six projects than 8,000 jobs. The $17 billion Samsung Taylor is one of the two But the biggest $30 billion Texas Sherman. For a city of 45,000, in our community. Our around $4 billion. This particular space is So it's one of our largest wafer fab that we But when it comes to new Arizona has taken the fab coming from Intel and the world's top advanced Still, Texas is in close with the highest number country. TI, for fab in Sherman since Texas Instruments went a Sherman on the map. The support we've had from then also the federal Texas continues to be a this manufacturing German-based Infineon world's biggest providers it makes many of them in The number of chips in an automotive in general is And all the connectivity, within the car around the content in every vehicle. Infineon has been in the for 25 years. In 2020, it expanded when it bought Cypress billion, taking over its tour. So it's about two football way from the front to the 100,000ft2 of clean room That's because we're the same time. We have the beginning of their fab and wafers that are end facilities. Netherlands-based NXP two fabs in Austin and $2.6 billion expansion additional four story fab X-Fab, a chip company more than two decades, $200 million expansion of North Texas. As the world's second chips, Samsung is a huge semiconductor suppliers especially with its fab north of Austin. When you start bringing in to build the ecosystem. And the supply chain is And there's a lot of about onshoring supply Of the $17 billion price fab, $11 billion is going equipment. Similarly, TI account for at least 65% Sherman. Tools like the lithography machines made in the world that can for the most advanced Dallas and Austin and the Materials, the world's semiconductor equipment We have been a part of the ecosystem for more than That's where our main continue to grow. And also recently we further expand in Austin, How helpful is it that companies like Applied here in Texas? I think it's absolutely They have their expertise Should we identify a Having that on site in a huge benefit to the operations. As TI expands in Sherman, supplier expanding Taiwan-based GlobalWafers based subsidiary billion to build the wafer factory. The base on. The wafers are actually and polished and this bare silicon wafer. They were looking to build kind to be built in So we were in competition to bring that plant to When it comes to why Instruments chose factor. And what you see behind cooling water line that as they're operating. It takes a lot of water It does take quite a bit probably be somewhere gallons per minute. Previous councils and rights at Lake Texoma, lakes in America. So we have plenty of currency. But water isn't plentiful About a quarter of the Where will that water in periods of drought? So we have the Texas Water that and legislation that session to make sure that in Texas, we will be able needs not just of our growing population. In 2021, Samsung used of water to make its Now, what you see here are us. And, you know, we've this year in Austin, We want to reuse over 1 this year. This factory will be twice recycling than our are in production. Flesner says the 300 being made in Richardson We can produce 2.3 times this wafer and yet it more to manufacture. But also it's it's better because there is less and water usage per chip in the 300 millimeter Making chips also takes a Each of those advanced Samsung will use in about one megawatt of the previous generation. One study showed Samsung South Korea's entire capacity in 2020. So behind me is our plant that's 750 So we are feeding a good Texas. We've got power When you have those two already ahead of most nationwide. But Texas also has a that largely cuts it off across state lines. In Denton, Texas, where crisis continues this ongoing as low In 2021, that grid failed storm, leaving millions and causing at least 57 We asked Governor Abbott the face of mounting I already signed 12 laws more reliable, more And so we can definitely here they will have need, but also at a low Samsung, Infineon and NXP their Austin fabs blackout in February Infineon told investors return to normal until Now, Samsung, Infineon have switched entirely to This site is on 100% green from wind farms here in We're also able to the water we use on site. In addition to resource facing hard times right amid a broader downturn overabundance of the chip shortage. Intel, the third biggest TSMC and Samsung, aims to billion over the next In Texas, it's selling research hub. Samsung, Q1 earnings in April and chips in response to But it's doubled down on business, Making logic Samsung hinted to CNBC, beyond the first fab $17 billion investment on factory. But we have factory is taking up So we have room to And early this year, Texas first sales decline since But that hasn't slowed Texas. We're in the relatively making tremendous production out of this