Harry: From calorie we wanted to find out all the differences between Hard Rock Cafe This is &quot;Food Wars.&quot; Let's break down &quot;the the original legendary burger. This is a steak burger two slices of Tillamook cheddar cheese, a crispy onion ring, lettuce, and tomato. On the menu, they really want you to know that every burger has Let's weigh the US burger. 318 grams. Here's the original Let's weigh it. Our burger weighed 280 grams. That's a pretty big difference, from 280 to 318 grams. This is a heavy, heavy burger. And, of course, all their burgers come with a side of seasoned fries. We're going to weigh ours to So, our side of fries came to 178 grams. They feel so soggy right now in my hands. So, that is 126 grams of french fries. Another iconic menu We're going to weigh our UK portion to find out how much we're getting. Is that too heavy? 335 plus ... oh, God. 300. 635 grams. This is heavy. This is 802 grams of ribs. That sounds like too much That's a lot of ribs. The cowboy rib eye is Let's see if that's actually true. This is 12.8 ounces of meat. Meat does shrink, so a little wiggle room is to be expected, but that's a pretty decent chunk. We booed. Everyone's booing. Everyone's booing me. So, after being booed by everyone, I'll be more upset about losing out on some of this meat. It just looks like such a big portion that I'm like, it's fine. But it is 4 ounces that we're missing that was advertised. So I understand. I understand why everyone's upset. Strangely, the cowboy rib eye is advertised as being I'm not sure why we're but we're going to measure So, our UK cowboy rib eye 10 1/2 ounces. I understand that steaks while cooking, but 3 1/2 Let's get into some apps. We got the classic nachos, no meat. This is &quot;Food Wars,&quot; so you know we gotta weigh these nachos. 602 grams. Here are the UK nachos. I'm going to weigh them our scale has had enough trauma already. Our UK nachos weighed 510 grams. I'm interested to see which country has bigger wing portions, Count them out with me. We have one, two. Three, four. Harry: 10, 11, and 12. Nico: Seven, eight. I'm going to let them have this one. I'm going to let them have this one because we've literally in these portion sizes this entire time. So you know what? You deserve Hard Rock Cafe is also known for its famous onion ring tower. Now, on the menu, they don't specify how many onion rings you get in a tower. However, in a promotional So we're going to count ours or if we get more or less I'm going to try my hardest to beat Harry in the onion-ring-tower-making. Somehow built this the wrong way round, so it's getting wider near the top. Six, seven. Oh, God, no! I'm not doing that again. Eight, nine, 10. Girls in STEM. So, while my tower design failed horribly, we did get 11 onion rings in our onion ring tower as a side. What about dessert? Let's compare Hard Rock's apple cobbler in the US and the UK. It smells so good. I'm resisting every urge I have to bite into it right now. We've got 432 grams of apple cobbler. So, the apple cobbler in Here are all the menu items you'll find at a Hard Rock in the UK that Here's all the food that you'll find at Hard Rock Cafe in the US There are a couple of burgers you'll find in the US but not in the UK, the turkey burger and I think Impossible beef isn't There's an ingredient in it which is approved in the The Impossible burger. That soy leghemoglobin is That's the ingredient like actual beef, and it's I can tell texture-wise, this is not beef, but it's doing enough It tastes pretty good. There's also a small difference in the classic legendary The UK uses just regular cheddar cheese, while the US specifically Tillamook is a popular I'm not going to bite because we are going to but if there's anything that then I'll give it a try. We actually have quite a so I'll start at this First off, we have cauliflower tacos. I think they are pretty It's a taco, which is a, I think is a flour tortilla with some pieces of seasoned as well as some slaw, some Next up, we've got barbecue chicken. This one really just does It's just half of a chicken, which has been grilled and It's almost unnerving how accurately they have It's literally like they've just gone straight through the middle and sliced the thing in two. The next exclusive menu You get this a lot. You which branding-wise seems but when they launch in the UK, they feel compelled to have I will have to try this one. I can't let them off the hook if they've really Although I will give them, that this has been and therefore has lost all of the crisp which I think it once had. It's not too bad. I do think had we eaten it would've been a bit crispier. You can definitely see some which would've crisped up. Next up, we have the Now, we don't have the Impossible burger on the UK menu because as of right now, Impossible beef still Moving Mountains is a company which does very similar things. It's making plant-based meat alternatives, including a beef burger, which is approved for sale in the UK and is on offer here. I mean, visually, I gotta say the Moving Mountains burger It's got a nice brown exterior. They've got the kind of grainy, like, meat fibers, almost, in the middle, and it definitely looks a bit pink, even. I'm quite impressed by that. That's really not bad. Obviously it doesn't that you're used to, but there's definitely a meatiness to it. Every Hard Rock Cafe location which is inspired by So this is the London burger. On here, you'll find a beef patty with some layers of roast beef, a horseradish mayo, rocket, some tomato, and some lettuce. Now, the London burger is loosely inspired by a British Sunday roast, specifically the roast beef. I do think I need to taste this to see if it's giving an of British cuisine. They've been fairly generous with the roast beef slices, I have to say. Cheers. You definitely do get from these pieces of beef. I think it could maybe have done with even more horseradish mayo, because the flavor of It's pretty good. Whether it's a accurate and London cuisine, I'm But is it a tasty burger? Kind of, yes. New York City doesn't have but they do offer a French Joe made me aware that the French dip was not created in New But I can kind of see But I can kind of see because roast beef sandwiches in general are popular here. That And they might have because New York City has so much Italian and Italian American I feel like I'm kind but I'm just trying to This is the garlic bread Um, I think we need to have What is the sauce called? Bless you. Got her. Got both of them. I'm taking a dip. I'm taking a dip. You can do it! You can do it! This is the coldest au jus and the coldest French dip. This is just not it. Go somewhere else. Go somewhere else! Hard Rock Cafe has also partnered with the greatest footballer of all time, Lionel Messi. Now, I'm not sure if to regularly eat at Hard Rock Cafe. However, he's partnered with You can find the Messi beef burger in both the US and the UK, but in the UK we have an exclusive one, the Messi chicken burger. Let's just take a look So, we have what looks to We've got some bacon, some cheese, a big grilled chicken breast. There is some sauce on here as well. Mayonnaise. As well as tomato and lettuce. If I take a bite out of this, do you think I will gain of Lionel Messi? Whether that is a sandwich I'm not sure. Speaking of Messi, I think now's a great time to quiz Joe and see if he can pick him He is one of the most famous so it shouldn't be hard. Right, Joe? So, one of these persons is Lionel Messi, and I don't know which one he is. Well, this guy's from &quot;Ted Lasso,&quot; so I'm assuming it's not him, or someone would've said at some point, &quot;Can you believe that guy is also a famous soccer player?&quot; This looks like a person So I'm going to assume that's not him. Tough times for football I mean, this just looks like, I feel like I've seen this guy somewhere. I feel like this guy works at Insider. Who's this? This can't be him. This looks like a stock photo. And then this looks like a guy from, like, a background So I'm going to think that it's this guy. Oh, it's not? This guy? This guy is this super-famous So, I think I was right. Hey, what do you want from me? None of this means anything to me. Both countries also have If you're in the mood to I have just the place for you. When you buy one of the $20 cocktails, you do get to keep the collectible glass that it comes in, so that's kind of fun. Imagine how happy and if I just had a Hard Rock A legendary burger in the Now, I don't know if with the fries or without, so just keep that in mind. According to the FDA, that is 81% of my daily recommended caloric intake. Here in the UK, the contains 1,375 calories, which, according to FDA guidelines, is around 69% of my daily A lot of food items on the Hard Rock menu are actually super high in calories, including the baby back ribs, which clock in at 2,433 calories. Here in the UK, the baby back ribs contain around 1,796 calories, which makes the US version around 35% more calorific. More detailed nutritional doesn't seem to be available online, but I did notice this that was next to a whole bunch of dishes. This indicates that the is higher than the total which is 2,300 milligrams. There's something about a fudge brownie with vanilla ice cream that feels very American food chain. In the US, this dessert contains 1,122 cals. I think it's worth it, though. This thing looks really good. In the UK, the fudge comes to 2,009 calories. What we have here is the takeaway version, which I personally do not think contains 2,000 calories. I think what they're referring to is the in-restaurant version, which is an enormous with loads of ice cream, sauces, and more. In front of me now, I have a with Buffalo sauce; I have the main, which is the legendary burger and fries; and I have dessert, which Now, I would say this is I think it would be on the heavier side for a dinner, but if I was hungry, I could definitely polish off However, if I ate all of this, I would be consuming 4,819 calories. I think those daily-caloric-intake values might be outdated and vary I'm not a nutritionist. I'm just a girl. In the US, an order of Buffalo and a hot fudge brownie Why in God's green earth It looks good. Just not $20 good. Hard Rock Cafe is a theme restaurant, and I feel like with a theme restaurant also comes pretty high prices. I think that's because they're They think people are willing to pay more because it's an experience In the UK, the same meal which is $56.56. All of this food for PS43 and, as we've discussed, but also, I don't think I'm getting that much value for my money. I feel like even in London, I can find better value elsewhere, and I do think it's kind of being marketed as kind of a tourist trap or maybe kind of a Did you know that the first Hard Rock Cafe was actually opened in London? It was the Hyde Park branch, It's pretty rare to come if you don't live in a major city or tourist destination. I think because of that reason, they're not super popular here, even though they are popular in the sense that we know what it is. There are only 34 and six of those are in Florida. 18% of the Hard Rock Cafes But this is an international chain, so you can find Hard Rock Cafes in over 50 countries, including Armenia, Nepal, Nigeria, and Poland. Hard Rock Cafe does have There's a community of collectors who will buy and swap commemorative merch from the different locations, including things like the iconic T-shirts and jumpers. Some superfans even celebrate like visiting your 25th location. I think I've got maybe 24 to go. Same. All we have to do is go to Florida, and we can cross six more off our list. They sell normal American fare, which I can find anywhere, like at a Chili's or an Applebee's, chains that are much more available. The thing that makes Hard isn't the food, it's the memorabilia. The first piece of memorabilia was Eric Clapton's Lead II Fender in 1979. Since then, they have with 86,000 pieces worldwide. Supposedly, it is the of music memorabilia in the entire world. These days, the memorabilia is or sometimes purchased through auctions. There are some pretty including Elvis Presley's handwritten lyrics for and, of course, One which they used in I am so jealous that Harry with the One Direction phone booth. I don't care if something It should have happened to me instead. I did manage to get a picture with one of Beyonce's outfits from her &quot;Green Light&quot; music video. It's not as iconic as the but it's something. We have a quote here from one of the Hard Rock Cafe founders which It says, &quot;The Hard Rock was becoming London's at a time when a baker and a banker could not commune, live, I think they might be I do think that London in the '70s was kind of in its punk era. I think social barriers were We'd already had the kind of I don't think Hard Rock that they were the only ones And there is nothing more