The Overcoming Life Read by Lyle Blaker PART I For whatsoever is born of God overcomes the world; even our faith. Who is he that overcomes Jesus is the Son of God? (1 John 5:4-5) to know who the victors are. In these verses, we I was converted, I made a mistake. I thought the and the crown already in my grasp. I thought the become new. I incorrectly believed that my old, I found out, after serving Christ for like enlisting in the army. There was a battle I had to work for it and fight for it. we breathe. It is obtained like any other gift, other terms. Scripture: But to him that does the ungodly, the faith is counted as righteousness gain a crown, we must work for it. Scripture: For which is Jesus the Christ. Now if anyone precious stones, wood, hay, stubble, the for the day shall declare it because it shall whatever sort it is, the fire shall put it he has built thereupon, he shall receive a he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be We see clearly from this that it is possible to be for us to have a wretched, miserable and no reward at the end. I am saved, yet as my teeth (Job 19:20). I believe a great many men Sodom. They will be burned out with nothing left. When a man enters the army, he's a member of the much a member as a man who has been in the army and participating in a battle is quite another. It's foolish for any man to attempt to fight and the Devil are too much for any man. We will to Christ by faith, and He is steadily formed Scripture: Now thanks be unto God, who always manifest the savour of his knowledge by us in we will be more than conquerors. to unconverted men about overcoming the world, They might as well try to cut down the American many Christian people make the mistake of thinking believe that all they have to do is put the oars will drift them into the ocean of God's eternal to learn how to watch, fight, and overcome. The a conflict and warfare. The quicker we understand this world that God hasn't linked Himself to. higher blessings. When God and man work together, If you take a water-powered mill and put it forty the world to make that river turn the mill. We need to keep in mind that if we are going to His power that makes the way of grace possible. great slave orator, once said in a mournful speech man is against us, governments are against us, and hope for the colored race. I am full of sadness.&quot; audience and said, &quot;Frederick, it makes a difference when you count God in. and disheartened when he realizes this warfare. and that Christianity is not all that it claims to sign. No sooner has a soul escaped from his snare again. He utilizes all his power to recapture on the strongest forts. The fierce battles the evidence of the work of the Holy Spirit in of need any more than He deserted His people of The Only Complete Victor and have overcome them because greater is he John 4:4). The only man that ever conquered this When He shouted on the cross, It is finished! every enemy. He had met sin and death. He had met through as the victor. If I have the spirit of have a power greater than any power in the world. Notice that everything human in this world fails. fails. Every man has been a failure at some period failed. Consider the men that have become so their eyes off God, they became weak like other failed on the strongest point of their character. Abraham was noted for his faith, but laughed when Moses was noted for his meekness and humility, out of the Promised Land because he lost his and that he was a mighty man, and had power and was kept out of the Promised Land. Elijah was yet he became a coward. He was the boldest man of and all the prophets of Baal. Yet, when he he ran away to the desert. Under a juniper boldness, and a little maid scared him nearly he trembled and swore that he didn't know like to have been there on the day of Pentecost, I suppose she said, &quot;What has come over that man? stands up before all Jerusalem and charges Triumphs of Faith over all our enemies? We live by faith. Scripture: yet not I, but Christ lives in me, and the the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave by faith, and become linked to Immanuel - God with How do we gain this mighty power? By faith. but thou by faith art standing (Romans 11:20a). unbelief. We were grafted in on account of our Next, we walk by faith. Scripture: For we 5:7). The most immature Christians I know are see how a thing is going to come out. That isn't I think the people whose lives best represent this who walked with God by sight. You remember his vow in this way that I go and will give me bread to to my father's house in peace, then shall the his heart revived when he saw the wagons Joseph never could have gone through the temptations and a more mature Christian. He could walk in the in spite of his dreams, and then credited it Lot and Abraham are also a good illustration. plains of Sodom. He claimed a good stretch of character and should have stayed with Abraham that. As long as their mothers are living, or they get along fine. But they can't stand alone. and walked in the footsteps ordained by God. hearkened to go out into the place which he and he went out, not knowing where he went. By a strange country, dwelling in booths with Isaac for he looked for a city which has foundations, Finally, we fight by faith. Scripture: Above shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of fires at us can be quenched by faith. By faith, we faith in your antagonist than in Christ. Secretary Seward, who was Lincoln's Secretary of war would be over in ninety days. Young men in and volunteered to go down to Dixie and whip the days. The war lasted four years and cost about South was a good deal stronger than the North Jesus Christ makes no mistake of that kind. When dark side. He lets him know that he must live a go to heaven by the way of Calvary, he cannot go is no cross, but they cannot enter heaven that we must deny ourselves and take up our and count the cost. Don't think that you will because many battles are before you. Yet if I had one of them. Men do not object to a battle if Praise God, victory is possible for all of us. life is that they underestimate the strength of with. Don't let Satan deceive you. Unless you everything around us tends to draw us away to the throne of God. There's the wilderness Don't let any man or woman think that all he or save you. The question is, are you overcoming Are you more patient than you were five years the world is overcoming you, even if you are a says that we are to be sound in faith, in a good many of them, that walk victoriously outward appearances, just a piece of them seems characters. It's just because they haven't been If I wanted to find out whether a man was a go and ask his wife. We need more Christian life I don't want to hear him talk about Christianity. the next life, if he has no salvation for this homes and everyday lives. Some men's religion just religious tone, and talk so sanctimoniously on saints. Then on Monday they are quite different. and you don't see any more of it until the next don't belong to that group. We must possess a It's wrong for a man or woman to profess what temptations, the world is overcoming you. Just get to God, and ask Him to search us. Let's ask Him are church members we are all right. We are all PART II Now if we are going to overcome, we must begin the fort is far more dangerous than one outside. two natures warring against each other. Scripture: but I am carnal, sold unto subjection by sin. and not even the good that I desire is what I do; that which I do not desire, I approve that the but sin that dwells in me. And I know that in for I have the desire, but I am not able to the good that I desire; but the evil which I do do not desire, I am not working, but sin that I find this law: evil is natural unto me. For I but I see another law in my members which rebels the law of sin which is in my members (Romans he says, For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, contrary the one to the other, so that ye cannot When we are born of God, we get His nature, but He Each species of animal and bird is true to its canary. The horse is true to its nature, and the not let the world or Satan make you think that Scripture: Likewise also reckon yourselves to be Jesus, our Lord (Romans 6:11). If you were dead, would you? The dead self would be dropped out of 9:27: I keep my body under. If it were dead, am judicially dead, but the old nature is alive. crucify the flesh with its affections, this lower bondage. Many men live all their lives in bondage they would only live the overcoming life. The old From the sole of the foot even unto the head and bruises, and putrefying sores: they neither mollified with ointment (Isaiah 1:6). tamed it so that it became a pet. One day old tiger-nature flashed out, and it had to in the believer. It never dies, though it is the old nature will gain the upper hand and rush is the center of S-I-N. It's the instrument have to overcome, after all, is yourself. he was a great society man. After he was asked, &quot;What have you found to be your After a few minutes of deep thought &quot;Ah!&quot; said the lady. &quot;The King has taken His presence that we are taught these truths.&quot; with any other man who has crossed I don't have any trouble with other people. Many think that the trouble lies with you instead is constantly snapping, he will have the whole it or not. You speak quickly and snappishly Appetite That is an enemy inside. How many young men Many have grown up to be a curse to their father the body of a young suicide victim was discovered found a paper on which he had written, &quot;I have through drink.&quot; A hint of these facts in the each of whom had a prodigal son who, Strong drink is an enemy, both to body and the celebrated London physician, once made the speaking solemnly and carefully when I tell you that within the rounds of my hospital wards today, beds owe their ill health to alcohol. I do not I do not know that one of them is; but they use then the desire begotten in him becomes a part of inflicts curses inexpressible when handed down as part and parcel of their being. When I profession-to give up everything-and go all men, 'Beware of this enemy of the race!'&quot; today. It kills more than the bloodiest wars. poverty, and disease. It spoils a man for this has declared it. Scripture: Know ye not that the not err: neither fornicators nor idolaters inherit the kingdom of God (1 Corinthians 6:9-10). proves that man is not powerful enough in his own is regeneration - a new life - the power of the to strong drink look to God for help, and He will came to destroy the works of the Devil, and He Temper I wouldn't give much for a man that doesn't if it hasn't got temper. But when temper gets the source of weakness. It may be made a great power may become my greatest enemy from within and rob strong that it makes them useless for navigation. reach the people when he speaks of temper. It is Christians have over it. A friend of mine in the parlor, he heard a noise in the hall. He asked doctor throwing his boots downstairs because they an old clergyman, &quot;who bore the loss of a child Christian fortitude are entirely vanquished by the I have had people say to me, &quot;Mr. Moody, If you really want to get control, I will tell it as a sin and confess it. People look upon me she inherited it from her father and mother. I When you get angry next time and speak unkindly to forgive you. You won't get mad with that person about forty-eight hours, but go the second time. you'll change your behavior, because A lady said to me once, &quot;I have gotten so in the exaggerating so much that they don't believe me.&quot; to overcome it?&quot; &quot;the next time you catch yourself lying, go right you're sorry. Say it is a lie. Stamp it out, &quot;Oh,&quot; she said, &quot;I wouldn't like to Christianity isn't worth a snap of your finger grown tired of all mere lip service and sentiment. truth, there is something radically wrong, and are you ready to do it? Bring yourself to the not. Do you know someone who has been offended tell them you are sorry. You say you are not to you are sorry. I have had to do it many times. An I sleep all the sweeter at night when I get things a blessing. I have sometimes had to get off the before I could continue preaching. A Christian man and he finds he has wounded or hurt someone, he are many people who want just enough Christianity this overcoming life that gets the victory all angry days, and the children say, &quot;Mother is in a We don't want any of those touchy blue days others will have confidence in our Christianity. is some cursed sin covered up. There will not be Get right inside. We can go out like giants and Paul says that we are to be sound in faith, in his faith, the clergy takes the ecclesiastical if he is unsound in love or patience, nothing is love, and in patience if we are to be true to God. his temper. It is said of Wilberforce that looking for a dispatch he had misplaced for which as if to make it even more trying, a &quot;Now,&quot; thought the friend, The thought had hardly passed through his mind a blessing it is to hear those dear children. to hear their voices and know they are well.&quot; Take the sin of covetousness. There is against drunkenness. I must get it out of let it have dominion over me. We think that but a covetous man will often be received into and black in the sight of God as any drunkard. is not generally regarded as horribly wicked. Of their wealth, but all covetous men are not misers. that the old are more prone to it than the young. Mortify therefore your members which uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil lust, and For this ye know, that no fornicator who is also an idolater, has any inheritance in For those that desire to be rich fall into and hurtful lusts which drown men in destruction of all evil, which while some coveted after, they through with many sorrows (1 Timothy 6:9-10). and blesses the covetous, whom Covetousness enticed Lot into Sodom. It caused was the iniquity of Balaam. It was the sin of the rich young ruler away sorrowful. It led Judas silver. It brought about the death of Ananias of Felix. What victims it has had in all ages. &quot;How am I going to check covetousness?&quot; about that. If you find yourself getting very you can into your possession - just begin to strangle it and rid it out of your very nature. hoarding his wealth and being a very selfish a poor man came to him and asked for help. He had convert thought he would be generous and give the smokehouse, and on the way, the tempter He struggled all the way to the smokehouse as to order to overcome his selfishness, he took down The tempter said, &quot;You're a fool.&quot; I'll give him every ham I have in the smokehouse.&quot; away. Determine to overcome that your body under, no matter what it may cost. to defend the rubber patent. He would receive he succeeded. One day, he woke up to find that struggle of his life then took place as to if he would be the master of his money. He had it a slave to him. At last he got the victory, Are You Jealous or Envious? you are jealous. That's the way to cure jealousy. monster. The poets imagined that Envy dwelt in corner, never rejoicing except in the misfortune There's a fable of an eagle which could outfly saw a sportsman one day and said to him, The sportsman replied that he would if he only had pulled one out of his wing. The arrow was shot flying too high. The envious eagle pulled out more so many that he couldn't fly. Then the sportsman the only one you can hurt is yourself. rivalry between them that included many bitter He went to his minister and said, and don't know how to overcome it.&quot; comes into your store to buy goods, and you cannot He said, &quot;I wouldn't like to do that.&quot; you will kill jealousy.&quot; When a customer came into his store he told him to go across the street to the other man began to send his customers over Pride sins which the Bible so strongly condemns, but Scripture: A high look and a proud heart, which Every one that is proud in heart is an abomination be without chastening (Proverbs 16:5). things which proceed out of the People have the idea that it's just the wealthy and you will find that some of the very poorest you know. People that don't have any money have got to crush it out. It is an enemy. for there isn't one that will survive ten days is there? Let's ask God to deliver us from pride. take it out of me.&quot; You must work with Him. exhorts us to be clothed, therefore, (as the elect with kindness, with humility (Colossians humility of will, for God resists the proud And in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus teaches, PART III What are our external foes? What does know ye not that the friendship of the world is to be a friend of the world, makes himself the world neither the things that are in the world. If is not in him (1 John 2:15). when you say the world, what do you mean? that is in the world, the lust of the flesh and of the Father, but is of the world. And the world the will of God abides forever (1 John 2:16-17). nowhere tells us that the material world is we read, The earth is the LORD's, and the dwell therein (Psalm 24:1). And, The heavens shows the work of his hands (Psalm 19:1). society are alienated from God, through being and because of this are opposed to God's Spirit ye know that it hated me before it hated you. its own; but because ye are not of the world, but world hates you (John 15:18-19). Love of the world future because of a love for passing things. and not by experience. It can only be overcome God overcomes the world; and this is the victory he that overcomes the world, but he that believes Worldly Habits and Fashions and fashions. We must often go against the customs can stand up for what he believes is right against Suppose it is the custom for young men to mother to know of or things your mother stand up alone among all your companions. mother, eh? Tied to your mother's apron strings?&quot; taught me what is right, and she's the best friend and I'm going to stand for the right.&quot; If and Joseph, and Elisha, and Paul. Someone says, &quot;I drink socially. I know it's a me. But I can stop whenever I want to. Perhaps and it may be too much for him. But it's Once I got into a place where I had to get up served a late supper. There were seven kinds of Christian people. A deacon urged a young lady the table and left. I felt that it was no place against custom to protest such an infernal thing. I was told in a southern college, some years ago, who didn't drink. Of course it is not so now. Another enemy is worldly pleasure. Many people for any meditation at all. Many men are because they gave themselves up to the god of but in a way that will help and not hinder them. I wish you would tell me how I can become a &quot;But I don't want to be one of your kind.&quot; kind? What's the matter with my Christianity?&quot; had a large practice. He used to get so tired that and we had tickets for the theater three or four more often than we were in church. Now I'm married so tired that he takes us out to the theater.&quot; She and theater people than with the church and church &quot;Well,&quot; I said, &quot;did you ever hear me been reporters here every day for all the verbatim in one of the papers. Have you ever She said, &quot;No.&quot; &quot;I have seen you in the audience every afternoon anything against theaters?&quot; &quot;Well,&quot; I said, &quot;what made you bring them up?&quot; &quot;What made you think that?&quot; &quot;No.&quot; &quot;Because I've got something better. and eat dirt than do some of the things I She said, &quot;I don't understand.&quot; position of authority, you will understand it all. here and shouldn't go there. He didn't lay principles. He says if you love Him you will Christ to her, the tears started again. that sermon on the indwelling Christ I admire Him and want to be a Christian, I said, &quot;Please don't mention them again. I talk to you about Christ.&quot; So I took my But she said again, &quot;Mr. Moody, can I go &quot;Yes,&quot; I said, &quot;you can go to the theater just and you can go with His blessing.&quot; are not as narrow-minded as some.&quot; she could go to the theater and be a Christian. glory of God, keep on going. But be sure that you you will be glad to do whatever pleases Him.&quot; The burden was gone and there was joy. &quot;I'm not going to give up the theater.&quot; &quot;Mr. Moody, I understand all about that theater a large party at our house, and my husband wanted everything looked so different. I said to my horrible. I'm not going to stay. I'm going home.' has heard that you've been converted in the hear about that too. I beg of you, don't make a &quot;But I said, 'I have been making The theater hadn't changed, but she had something Scripture: For those that are according to the those that are according to the Spirit, the things has the first place in your heart, you are going please Him. The great objection I have to these and become a hindrance to spiritual growth. It may be that we have to overcome in business. and Sundays too. When a man drives like Jehu1 there something wrong with him? Now, business is won't go out and earn his bread by the sweat of do the best job possible. At the same time, if a god of it, and thinks more of it than anything legitimate in its place, like fire, which, in its place, however, it is one of the worst enemies Yet, when not in place, it becomes an enemy. and me to settle. Now examine yourself. Are you Christian character? Are you achieving Remember that every temptation you overcome every temptation that defeats you makes you stronger and stronger. Sin takes the strength you stronger. So many men have been overcome us in the Song of Solomon. Hunt the foxes for for our vines are in blossom (Song of Solomon like getting agitated, being misleading, and you are able to stand strong in the face of you fall when faced with some little thing. Persecution enough persecution today. Some people say we have Dark Ages. Anyway, I think it would be a good kind about now. It would bring out the strongest men get up in a prayer meeting, say they were till you would think they were going to talk all that wouldn't talk so much. Spurgeon used to They would burn well, because they are so dry. If I think it would take all the religiousness much to start with. If they aren't willing they aren't fit to be His disciples. We are told, shall also suffer persecution (2 Timothy 3:12). Jesus Christ will have nothing to say for you. been won in times of persecution. The early church the crucifixion. Those were years of growth and the cross passed from the scene of public and the downgrade movement began. When it consistently deteriorated in spirituality of the State only served to purify it of all to Presbyterianism. It was persecution that gave How are we to overcome in time of persecution? have spoken unto you that in me ye might have but be of good cheer; I have overcome the though persecuted, he was never forsaken. The him out of all his persecutions and afflictions. will be mocked. Then sometimes when persecution people often come up to a man after he has do that. Perhaps they will say to some worker in so-and-so.&quot; He becomes proud and struts around town. I tell you, we have a wily Devil to contend he will try flattery or ambition. If that doesn't affliction or disappointment, and he will has Christ to help him can overcome every foe them come. If we have Christ within us, we will to do. In all the ages, men have stood in greater There is one more thing to consider. I have to overcome me. I have to conquer sin in me conquer me. Some people are satisfied with one We have got to do something more than that. It's the fact that we are assured of victory in To Him That Overcomes eight promises to those who overcome in this life. eat of the tree of life, which is in the 2:7). He will have a right to the tree of life. him out of Eden so that he couldn't eat of He took that tree and transplanted it to we are offered the right to eat of it. the second death (Revelation 2:11). Death holds no Christ tasted death, and through His death gained but that is all. This is only the house I live in. Scripture: To him that overcomes I will give a small white stone and in the stone a new name receives it (Revelation 2:17). If I overcome, nothing about, and He will give me a new name. works unto the end, to him will I give power over of it. What a thing to have, power over the is the man that God can trust with power. Only a men. It seems like we are down here in training, The details may not be specific, but God's Scripture: He that overcomes shall likewise blot out his name out of the book of life, but before his angels (Revelation 3:5). Jesus will without spot or wrinkle. Every fault and stain overcomes will not be a stranger in heaven. pillar in the temple of my God, and he upon him the name of my God, and the name of which comes down out of heaven from and with (Revelation 3:12). Imagine no more backsliding of sin. We will be forever with the King. He is going to put His name on us. Isn't it It is said that when Muhammad came in people had all left the city, he said, what will they fight for?&quot; If men won't fight here Scripture: To him that overcomes will even as I also overcame and have sat down with heart has often melted as I have looked at that &quot;I will grant to you to sit on My throne, even overcome.&quot; Isn't it worth a struggle? Countless we are to be placed above the angels, archangels, throne, and we will remain forever with Him. May the battle of life, so we may sit with Him on His dying, his own son would not have been allowed to the authority to let anyone else sit there with Jesus Christ, and we will sit with Him in glory. things; and I will be his God, and he shall be that a high calling? I used to have my Sunday but have not done so for years. We will be above all things. Do you ask how much I'm worth? I don't They don't even know how many millions they own. idea how much I'm worth. God has no poor children. What an inheritance. Let's get the victory Part IV Results of True Repentance to what true repentance leads to. I'm because I believe that there is a good deal much will be accomplished in the world. I firmly is keeping many enslaved to the world and bound in who do not repent, it's unreasonable to expect have repented thousands of times more since most Christians have some things to repent of. and to anyone who has never There are five things that 1. Conviction. 3. Confession of sin. 5. Confession of Jesus Christ before the world. When a man is not deeply convicted of sin, it is Experience has taught me that men who have very back into their old life. For the last few years, true growth in professing converts far more than converted without realizing the enormity of his hearers who don't amount to anything (Matthew or the first wave of persecution or ridicule, I believe we are making a woeful mistake when the church who have no understanding of the Sin is just as black in man's heart today blacker. The more understanding a man has, the greater his need for deep conviction. to illustrate how humble the soul At a revival meeting, a little lad went home to his mother and said, &quot;Mother, John but he won't find it tonight, Mother.&quot; &quot;Because he is only down on one get peace until he is down on both knees.&quot; both knees, until we are completely humbled, we cannot find the Savior. and the Holy Spirit lead a person to Long before we had the Scriptures, God dealt with and Eve hide themselves from the presence of the It's what convicted Joseph's brothers when they sold him into slavery. Scripture: And they said our brother in that we saw the anguish of his therefore is this distress come upon us (Genesis children before they are old enough to understand conscience is what accuses or excuses the heathen. telling him that he ought to do right. and Eve ate the forbidden fruit, when their (Genesis 3:22). It passes judgment without being words, and actions, and judges them to his conscience without being self-condemned. often it won't tell you a thing is wrong until because it's a partner with our fallen nature. condemned by conscience. Scripture: I verily contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth (Acts Again, conscience is too often like an alarm but after time the man becomes used to it, and it think we make a mistake by not teaching enough Over the course of time, conscience was replaced Now, the masses have access to Bibles, God produces conviction. The Word of God tells sin. It is critical that we learn and embrace Spirit. Conscience compared with the Bible is like The truth convicted those Jews on the day of preached that God has made this both Lord and Christ. Now when they heard this, Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and Finally, the Holy Spirit convicts. Scripture: he will reprove the world of sin and of because they do not believe in me (John 16:8-9). this passage. He said, &quot;Some commentators say until the Holy Spirit came. I think that foreign heard of Christ may have a tremendous conviction and gave the Comforter afterward. Conscience witness to Christ. Conscience brings legal conviction. Conscience brings conviction to the conviction unto salvation. He shall convince the That's the sin about which He convinces. It does have stolen or lied or committed adultery. because they have not believed in Jesus Christ. a sin possible that was not possible before. bring conviction concerning blackness. There are they were dark-skinned until they saw the this world never knew they were sinful until they &quot;Jesus Christ now stands between us and the law. claims it had on us. Whatever claim it had on the sin question, but the Son question, that he begins to preach after the Holy Spirit has Him, being delivered by the determinate counsel wicked hands have crucified and slain (Acts kind of sin. That's the sin that runs all the Holy Spirit came down and convicted them, &quot;We had no part in crucifying Christ. So what They were convicted of crucifying Christ. We in Christ crucified. They were convicted Son. The Holy Spirit convicts us because Rejected One. It's really the same sin in Some of the most powerful meetings I've ever of hush over the people, and it seemed like remember a man who came to one meeting. was there. A sense of awe came upon him, and Contrition of heart because of sin. If there isn't true sin. That's the trouble with many Christians. contrition, the next day he will get angry again. mother. Then her conscience troubles her, and she But soon there's another outburst of temper, A husband speaks sharp words to his wife. buys her a bouquet of flowers. He will not go What God wants is contrition. If there isn't Scripture: The LORD is near unto those that of a contrite spirit (Psalm 34:18). A broken and (Psalm 51:17). Many sinners are sorry for their repent only with hearts that are not broken. We need a modern-day John the Baptist wandering Confession of Sin to confess our sins. I believe nine-tenths from failing to do this. We try to hide and confession of them. Someone said, &quot;Unconfessed If you are not experiencing the power of God something in your life that needs straightening attending religious meetings, praying, or reading of that kind. It must be confessed. If I am too God or answers to my prayers. Scripture: He that confesses and forsakes them shall attain mercy priest behind the altar, or a king on the throne, trying to cover up sin for six thousand years. he buried the Egyptian he killed, but he failed. (Numbers 32:23b). You can bury your sin as deep as if it has not been blotted out by the Son of God. you and I had better give up trying to do. is against God and must be confessed to Him. Some If the sin has been between myself and God, I may to whisper it in the ear of any mortal. Scripture: against heaven and in thy sight and am no longer thee, against thee only, have I sinned and However, if I have done some man a wrong, and that sin not only to God but also to that man. I don't even need to go to God. I may pray and to that man. Then go to God and see how quickly Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, against thee; leave thy gift there before the thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift There is another class of sins that must be blasphemer, a drunkard, or a shameless sinner, confession. The confession should be as public as mean about another in the presence of others, person privately. The confession should be made so We are far too concerned about confessing in true repentance, we will have as much When a man or woman gets a good look into with other people as much as he does in himself. and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us for the gospel. If there is any sin in your life, Don't have any cloud between you and God. Know gone to prepare for you. Confession leads to true conversion. these three steps have been taken. We say a man is converted when he is born again. Peter said, Repent ye therefore and be converted Repent therefore, and turn. Paul said that he but preached to Jews and Gentiles that An old theologian once said, &quot;Every man is born one's course. It is right about face.&quot; aversion from God and conversion to the God and aversion from the world. When there sin. When there is true conversion, the heart are transferred out of the kingdom of darkness Unless our repentance includes this conversion, it's proof of an idle profession. It's like the leaks. Solomon said, If they pray in this sin when thou hast afflicted them (1 Kings 8:35). they continued in sin. Let us listen to God's call the Lord. He will have mercy on us and pardon us. disagree with the idea that it takes six months, doesn't take you very long to turn around, does Confession of Christ the next step is to confess it openly. Scripture: Jesus and shalt believe in thine heart that be saved. For with the heart one believes unto made unto saving health (Romans 10:9-10). the work of true repentance. We owe it and to ourselves. He died to redeem us. Should as a concept - as a doctrine - holds little say from personal experience always has weight. truth was met with resistance. Bitter and But one day, one of the most prominent men in that I am a disciple of Jesus Christ. If there I'm prepared to take my share of it.&quot; electric current, and a blessing came at You've got to make a public confession when your place of business and in your family. Let Many are willing to accept Christ, but they focused on the lions and the bears in the are only made of smoke. He can throw a straw He says, &quot;You can't confess to your family. coworker. He'll laugh at you.&quot; you will have the power to confess Him. pondered his soul's salvation. One will accept Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior.&quot; professor of religion) that he made up his tonight I'm going to take our company into &quot;Well,&quot; said his wife, &quot;you know some of the and they are older than you. Don't you think or go into the kitchen and have your The young man thought for a few moments my house for the first time, and I will take So he called his friends into the drawing read and prayed. That man became chief justice For I am not ashamed of the gospel of the health to every one that believes (Romans 1:16). The first night he was in the barracks with playing cards and gambling. Before retiring, he taunted him, and threw their boots at him. Finally, the young man went and told the chaplain &quot;Well,&quot; said the chaplain, &quot;you aren't at much right in the barracks as you have. Lord will hear you just as well if you say For weeks, the chaplain didn't see the &quot;By the way, did you take my advice?&quot; &quot;How did it work?&quot; &quot;I felt like a whipped hound. So the third &quot;Well,&quot; asked the chaplain, &quot;how did that work?&quot; prayer meeting every night. Three have been I am so tired of weak Christianity. Let's be us fools, let them do it. It's only for a little the privilege we have of confessing Christ. Scripture: And those that understand shall shine that teach righteousness to the multitude as That is the testimony of an old man. He had the on the face of the earth at the time. He was Bible students think he wasn't more than twenty Hebrew was carried away into captivity, that he no one would have believed it. All the generals at that time would be eclipsed by this no man whose life is recorded in history Belshazzar, Cyrus, Darius, and all the We aren't told when he was converted to a have good reason to believe that it happened under some earnest, godly man made a deep impression on We hear people nowadays talk about the They say their position is a very peculiar to work. He wasn't only a slave, but he also the Hebrews. The language was unknown to him. his stand for God from the very beginning and gave the dew of his youth to God and continued Notice that all those who have made and have shone most brightly, have been men who as a slave into Egypt by the Ishmaelites. Yet as Daniel later did. And he remained true to he was taken away from home and placed among Look at Moses, who turned his back upon the with his despised and downtrodden nation. If he shone brightly and proved faithful to God. The whole nation was turning to idolatry. threw their influence against the worship shone brightly in that dark and evil day. Now Consider John the Baptist. I used to think I would have given up that idea. You can be sure that is dark, and the professing church of God has gone it was, when John the Baptist made his appearance. eighteen centuries have rolled away, and the than ever. He was looked down upon in his day and His name will be revered and his work remembered Talk about a hard field. Paul shone for God the heathen. He told them of the God he served, in order to save the world. Men reviled him and him when he spoke of the crucified One. But he was regarded as a poor tentmaker by the great recall the name of any of his persecutors unless The fact is, all men like to shine. We may as well top of the ladder in business. Everyone wants to his profession. In the political world, there be the greatest. Even in schools, you will find want to stand at the top of the class. When a boy the mother is very proud of it. She manages to has done, and what awards he has received. the other. Everyone is very anxious to shine and to outdo the other in their games. So we all have However, there are very few who can actually will outstrip all his competitors. Every four to determine who will be the president of six months or a year. Yet only one man can get but most are disappointed, because only one can God the very least and the very weakest can shine but all may have it if they will. the statesmen will shine as the brightness are gone. Even their names are forgotten. Earth's nobility are soon forgotten. John the whole crowd of those who were the nobility in blotted out. He lived for God and for souls, We aren't told that the merchants will shine. Who Their names were all buried in oblivion a mighty conquerors of that day? We can name a but it's Daniel, not Nebuchadnezzar, despite the fact that they were both used by What a different story it is with this faithful passed away, and his name shines on, and on, and to shine as long as the church of God exists. as the brightness of the firmament; and those the stars in perpetual eternity (Daniel 12:3). Napoleon, the French military and political and shone as an earthly warrior for a little held the once proud and mighty conqueror. He died Almost forgotten. Who in all the world would say But look at this despised and hated Hebrew he was too righteous and too religious. Yet the loved and honored for his faithfulness to God. the Great Exhibition. Napoleon III was then in along the streets of the city. A few short years an exile from his country and his throne, and him at all. If his name is mentioned, it is not are the glory and pride of this world. If we are get outside of ourselves and care nothing for The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, If any man, woman, or child by a godly their life will not have been a failure. They will because they will have set a stream in motion God left us here to shine. We are not here to buy position. If we are Christians, this earth is is in heaven, from where we also look for the 3:20). God sent us into the world to shine for be the Light of the World, but men put out that Before Christ went up on high, Ye are the light of the world. Go ye therefore God has called us to shine just as much as Daniel woman say that they can't shine, because they God wants you to use the influence you have. Babylon at first, but God soon gave him more, Remember, a small light will do a lot when candle in the middle of a large room, Out in the prairie regions, when meetings the meetings were held by candlelight. of tallow-soaked cloth with him to burn. It was it on the desk. It didn't light the building Each household brought their candle. By the time light. So if we all shine a little, there will us to do. If we can't all be lighthouses, Sometimes, a little light will do a great a cow that kicked over a lamp, and a hundred home. Don't let Satan take advantage of you do great things you can't do anything at all. our light shine. It doesn't say, make your shine. All you have to do is to let it shine. seasick. In my opinion, if there is a time when a it is then. While this man was sick, he heard if he could do anything to help save the man. porthole. The drowning man was saved. When this talked with the man who was rescued. The saved man down a second time, and was going down for the someone held a light at the porthole. The it and pulled him into the lifeboat. but it saved the man's life. If you can't do great perishing drunkard, who may be won to Christ torch of salvation into dark homes and hold up If the perishing masses will be reached, we must for them. I wouldn't give much for a man's save others. It is utter ingratitude if we don't same pit from which we were delivered. Who is able themselves been slaves to alcohol? Won't you go all did what we could, we could make a difference. the corner of a street in a great city with someone asked why he had the lantern, since The blind man replied, &quot;I have it so Where one man reads the Bible, a hundred read we must be living epistles of Christ, known and give much for all that can be done by sermons, if present the gospel to people by our holy walk A little act of kindness will possibly have more A vessel was caught in a storm on Lake Erie, and At the entrance of that port they had what are on the bluffs, the upper lights burned brightly. see the lights showing the entrance to it. The captain was sure they would go down if they went to enter the harbor. The pilot said there was very he had nothing to guide him. They tried everything waves, then into the trough of the sea, and at where the vessel was dashed to pieces. Someone had Let us take warning. God keeps the upper lights down here to keep the lower lights burning. Our us before the Father. I sometimes think that if we as God has down here on earth, we would have a action and burn our lights brightly, so others may I heard about a man in the state of Minnesota is cursed with winter storms which sweep down snow falls, and the wind beats it into the face ahead. Many men have been lost on the prairies This man was caught and was almost to the point log house. He managed to get there and found a a wealthy man. As soon as he was able, he bought where the log building stood. On top of a tower storm comes, he lights it in the hope that That is true gratitude, and that's what God us up out of the horrible pit, let us always look Two men had charge of a revolving light in a Somehow the machinery went wrong, and the light at sea would mistake it for some other light the night to keep the light moving round. so that the world may see that Christianity is they had one game where the men ran with and ran a certain distance. Sometimes they his light still burning, he received a prize. Many in their old age have lost their light and in their families, in Sunday school, and in the them and God, and their light has gone out. God can help you come back to the altar of Then you can go to those in need, and let the If we only lead one other soul to Jesus Christ, we we are dead and gone. Way up on the mountainside an ox might drink it up in one drink. Then into it. Before long it's a large brook, and to the sea. On its banks are cities, towns, and flourishes on every side, and commerce is carried So if you turn one to Christ, that one may turn stream, small at first, goes on broadening Scripture: And I heard a voice Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the that they may rest from their labours, and Many are mentioned in Scripture of whom we read died. The cradle and the grave are brought and that is all we know about them. In these professing Christians the date they were born and You can't bury a good man's influence. It lives is as great today as it ever was. Do you tell me will continue to live on and on. You can bury the you can't get rid of his influence and example. Do you tell me that John Howard, who went is dead? Is Henry Martyn, or William Wilberforce, and there you will find millions of men and women name of Wilberforce, and see how quickly their himself, and his memory will live on in the Are Wesley or Whitefield dead? The names honored than they are now. Is John Knox today and feel the power of his influence. Those who persecuted them and told lies about them the lies that were uttered concerning them. Not world. Scripture: And those that understand shall those that teach righteousness to the multitude Let's continue to turn as many as we can to to its lies, its pleasures, and continually going forth to win souls for Him. move, and live, pass off the stage of life, and of good in the world, and none were blessed by their redemption: not a line they wrote, and so they perished: their light went out in than insects of yesterday. Will you thus live and and leave behind you a monument of virtue that the in kindness, love, and mercy, on the hearts of you will never be forgotten. No! your name, your behind you as the stars on the brow of evening. Part V A Solemn Message listen. It's not man speaking now, but it is God. and all thy house into the ark (Genesis 7:1). &quot;I hope Mr. Moody isn't going to teach up by all intelligent people.&quot; I am going to give up the whole Bible. Testament Scripture that the Son of God didn't Some say, &quot;I don't believe Christ connected His own return to this world with were, so shall also the coming of the Son of man eating and drinking, marrying and giving in into the ark, and they knew not until the flood coming of the Son of man be (Matthew 24:37-39). as I do the third chapter of John. I pity any moment we give up any one of these things, we I noticed that when a man begins to pick the tear it all to pieces. What's the use of taking One hundred and twenty years before God spoke the communication that ever came from heaven to earth. has ever received such a communication. God said going to destroy the world by water. We can that pre-flood wickedness. The Bible piles emphasize it. Scripture: And GOD saw that the that every imagination of the thoughts of his repented of having made man on the earth, and And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was the earth. And God said unto Noah, The end of all with violence through them; and, behold, I will Men lived five hundred years and more then, How the Message Was Received with the pre-flood civilization. He never destroys time Noah drove a nail into the ark, it was a &quot;I believe in God.&quot; If they had repented God would have heard their cry and spared them. that they ridiculed the idea that God was going to atheists who said there wasn't any God anyhow. for the formation of the world?&quot; and by chance the world was created.&quot; your tongue isn't on the top of your head if force If I took out my watch and told you that force you would say I was a lunatic of And yet they say that this old world was made I met a man in Scotland. He took I asked him, &quot;How do you account for the many rocks in Scotland.) any school boy could account for that.&quot; &quot;Out of sand.&quot; &quot;Out of rock.&quot; Sand and rock, rock and sand. I have no doubt that Then there are agnostics. They believe there chance. But they believe God is too merciful and the harlot, the gambler, the murderer, the would all share alike with the saints at the tenderhearted that he couldn't bear to have a man and believed all prisoners should be set would have him out of office before the God's mercy would be the first to uprise if a Others believe that God couldn't destroy the world they would simply retreat to the hills a hundred times better than Noah's ark. Or, if which would be a good deal better than that thing. It was about five hundred feet long, It had three stories and only one small window. because he was in such a minority. That is greatly in the minority. But he went on working. vulgar songs about Noah and his ark. I don't was violence in the land, and wherever you that Noah planted a vineyard and fell into the he did that, what must the others have done? it out to entertain whole families. reporters would have come to interview him. And updates on how the work on the ark progressed. the ark as a spectacle. If Noah happened to be &quot;That's Noah. Don't you think there As a Scotsman would say, they thought him a to be a little insane. An insane man thinks himself insane when he drinks up all his financial into the ark and is saved for time and eternity. Businessmen went on buying and selling, They perhaps had some astronomers who gazed up at no sign of a coming storm in the heavens. We we could read it in the heavens.&quot; and say, &quot;There is no sign in the earth.&quot; ark might have made fun of him. But they were build a church, and perhaps give money for Things went on as usual. Little lambs skipped wealth. If they had leases, I expect they ran for years is a long time, but theirs probably ran for came to sign a lease, they would say, &quot;Old Noah and twenty years, and it's been twenty years. Someone said that Noah must have been deaf, or he looks from his countrymen. But even if he was of God clearly when He told him to build the ark. and the work on the ark ceased, men He went on a preaching tour to tell the people God was going to sweep every man from the in the ark. But he couldn't get a single Some of the old men had passed away. Poor Noah. He must have had a hard time the grace to work for one hundred and he just toiled on and believed the Word of God. spring of that year, Noah didn't plant anything, said, &quot;Every other year he has planted. This year hasn't planted anything.&quot; I can imagine one beautiful morning without a the same voice he heard one hundred and twenty for one hundred and twenty years. But the voice and all thy house into the ark (Genesis 7:1 KJV). in the Bible. This is the first time it Noah and his family moving into the ark as Some of his neighbors probably said, &quot;Noah, to get into that old ark. What's your hurry? out to see when the storm is coming.&quot; Some of his relatives might have said, &quot;What Noah possibly said, &quot;I don't want it. The storm is the only place of safety.&quot; We must bear in will soon pass away. The heavens will honor, and position in society be worth? rose one morning, and the heavens were filled with two. They came from the desert, the mountains, been a strange sight. I can imagine the people And they looked down on the earth and two from all parts of the world. Then neighbors cried out, &quot;What does this mean?&quot; who told them there was no sign of a coming and creeping things were drawn toward The statesmen and wise men said, &quot;Well, we can't going to destroy the world. Business has never prosperous if He was going to destroy the world? no idea what made these insects and wild beasts it. It's very strange. But there's no sign and the sun shines as bright as it ever did. You can hear the children playing in the I imagine the alarm faded, and things returned to to be shut. Come in. God is going to destroy communication came to them direct from heaven.&quot; Do you know, when the hundred and twenty years Did you ever notice that? If there had been it would have been heard. But there was none. minute, and the last second. God Almighty came man, but God Himself shut that door. When the the doom of that old world was forever sealed. world for the last time. From the distance came and lightning flashed. The old world reeled. The been worth more than the whole world to them. make fun of your mother's God, or laugh at promise in the Word of God will be worth more The windows of heaven opened and the fountains of and the sea burst its bounds and leaped over the lowlands fled to the mountains and highlands. &quot;Noah! Noah! Noah! Let us in!&quot; the ark. They pounded on the ark. They cried, &quot;I'm your nephew!&quot; &quot;I'm your uncle!&quot; &quot;I would like to let you in, but God God shut that door. When the door was shut, too late. Their opportunity for grace was over. them and invited them to come in. But they fun of the idea of a deluge. Now it was too late. the people perished. When Job lost his family, the pre-flood world. Not even Noah himself could seen men, women, and children throw themselves and those outside perished in their unbelief. thought the storm would end soon. It continued forty nights. They were swept away as the waves and great men called out for mercy, but it was had called, and they refused. He had pleaded with for judgment instead of mercy. The time will come again when God deals in when, but it is sure to come. God's word has up like a scroll and burnt up with fire. What Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark the rain began to fall, Noah's ark wasn't worth after the rain began to fall, Noah's ark was worth living who wouldn't have given everything for You may say, &quot;I would rather be The time is coming when Christ will be worth He is offered to you now. Today is the day of your Bible carefully, you will find that God a forerunner of judgment. He called the men in saved if they had repented in those one hundred with the people in Jerusalem, it was their day He said, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that sent unto thee, how often I desired to gather her chickens under her wings, and ye would not! of the people begged that their lives might be In 1857, a revival swept over this country from was God calling the nation to Himself. Half a time. Then the Civil War broke out. The country and in 1861, we were baptized in blood. Are Your Children Safe? a special application to Christian people and to to Noah not only for his own safety but also for father and mother is this, &quot;Are your children in very important question. Are all your children in? night until you get your children in. I believe one. I believe that in the great cities there is for our sons and daughters. And I don't believe and worldly possessions. Have I done all I can Now, let me ask another question. How would Noah his children refused to go with him? If he had no faith in his word, what would he have felt? mountain. I would rather have perished myself.&quot; Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! I would rather my son! (2 Samuel 18:33). Noah loved his Someone sent me a paper a number of years ago. title was &quot;Are all the children in?&quot; one hundred years old. The husband who had She barely breathed. Suddenly she revived, &quot;Yes, Janet, it's dark.&quot; &quot;Yes, it's midnight.&quot; Her youngest child had been in the grave the old days that night when she fell asleep Are they all in? Ask yourself now. Is John in? pleasure? Is he living a double or mother? Where is your son and your daughter? Is After being superintendent of a Sunday school over a thousand members, children that came from against me, taking the children off on excursions the work I was trying to do - I used to think I would speak only to parents. That would &quot;Get the lamb, and you will get the sheep.&quot; I and then I will have someone to nurse the lamb. father and mother, you will have little chance was established long before the church. the idea that our children have to grow I saw a lady with three daughters at her side. a Christian. Then I asked the oldest daughter if she was a into her eyes. She said, &quot;I wish I was.&quot; &quot;I don't want you to speak to my children about she stormed off with her daughters in tow. One the other ten. Their mother thought they weren't Let them drift into the world and plunge into is to reach them. Many sons are now beyond their to pray with them. She may pray for them, but When their minds were tender and young, they might Suffer the little children to come unto me and the heavens (Matthew 19:14). Is there a pierce you to your very soul. Make up your mind in. God's order is to the father first, but the mother should step in and save the children job seriously, while you have them under your I think of two fathers, one lived on the banks York. The first one devoted all his time to very attached. One day, the boy was brought home boy would only live a short time. He broke &quot;You say I won't live, Father? Then That father had never said a prayer for his son, boy died. Since then, that father has said that he boy back only to offer one short prayer for him. for some time. He came home one day and found his that this is going to be fatal.&quot; would you please tell him?&quot; her boy. The father went to the sick room &quot;My son, do you know you're not going to live?&quot; death I feel coming over me? Will I die today?&quot; The little fellow smiled and said, &quot;Well, &quot;Yes, you'll spend the night with the The little fellow saw the tears and to Jesus and tell Him that ever since I I have three children. If God chose to take that type of a message to Him than to have the I could say something to motivate you, fathers Part VI Learn of me, for I am meek and Humility than the lesson of humility. It's not taught in It's the rarest of all the gifts. Very rarely do footsteps of the Master in meekness and humility. Christ taught His disciples while He was here He failed to teach it to the twelve men who had I believe that if we are humble enough, we will depends more on us than the Lord. He is always but we aren't always in a position to receive get down in the dust before Him, we won't be who had chosen the good part (Luke 10:42). for learning of Him? He could have said, &quot;Learn of the age. I have performed miracles that supernatural power in a thousand ways.&quot; But and humble of heart (Matthew 11:29). whose faces shone. All three were noted for their of Christ shone at His transfiguration. Moses, came down from his communion with God with a the Sanhedrin on the day of his death, his face our faces to shine, we must get into the valley Bunyan says that it is hard to get down into steep and rugged. But it is very fruitful, I think that no one will dispute that. Almost Someone asked Augustine, what was the &quot;Humility.&quot; They asked him what was the second, third, and he said, &quot;Humility.&quot; I think that Some years ago, I saw what is called a sensitive it drooped its head. I touched it, and it withered safely be brought out on exhibition. A man who and walking close to the Master is self-deceived. ourselves but in not thinking of ourselves at humility speaks of itself, it is gone. illustration of this lowly quality. It was and it springs up again. The cattle feed The showers fall upon the mountain peaks, and rushes down into the meadows and valleys and proud and lifted up, rivers of grace may flow over they bring blessing to the man who has A man can imitate love, faith, hope, very difficult to imitate humility. It's They have a saying in the East. That as the has blessed. The ears that God has blessed bow more fruitful they are, the lower their heads are lift their heads erect, high above the I have a pear tree on my farm which is very my property. Every branch reaches up to the light get any fruit from it. I have another tree which almost touched the ground. If we only get down low As the lark that soars the highest, builds her sweetly, sings in the shade when all things rest. bend lowest. And as the ship most laden, who bear the most fruit are the humblest. story of a petition that was being circulated for the petition was intended to have great influence out. Instead of reading, &quot;We humbly beseech thee,&quot; If we want to make an appeal to the God of heaven, before the Lord, we won't be disappointed. in the Bible who demonstrated humility, I grew humility. When I examine my life next to the lives of the present day. If you want to get a good in the Bible that have been clothed with meekness position and your position before God and man. Baptist. Remember when they asked if he was He said, &quot;No.&quot; flattering things about himself. He could have Haven't you heard of my fame as a preacher? I have The world has never seen a preacher like me.&quot; position would do that. Some time ago, I heard people in the car could hear him. He declared that denomination. He boasted about how many thousands preached, and how many open-air services he that I hid my head. This is the age of boasting I recently realized that in all the Psalms to his victory over the giant, Goliath. If David written about it immediately. I'm sure many done. He would have been in demand as a lecturer, G.G.K. for Great Giant Killer. That's how it is great theologians, and great bishops. &quot;I am nobody. I'm to be heard He didn't have a word to say about himself. close by me, but when it got clear out of sight, the sweeter its song became. If we can Him who is meek and lowly in heart. We Mark tells us that John came and preached, There of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and that Christ was looked upon as a deceiver and a an old priest. John had a much higher position came to hear him, and even Herod heard him speak. was beginning to draw big crowds, he responded A man can receive nothing except it is given him that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom, who the bridegroom's voice; this my joy therefore is but unto me, to decrease (John 3:27-30). live in the power of it. It's very hard for us to so that Christ may increase. The morning Scripture: He that comes from above is above speaks earthly things: he that comes from heaven he testifies; and no one receives his testimony. seal that God is true. For he whom God has sent the Spirit by measure unto him (John 3:31-34). Have we been decreasing? Do we think less of year ago? Are we seeking to obtain some position and are we offended because we aren't treated with I heard a man in the pulpit say that he should be you going to take that position? Do you believe be addressed by that title or be offended? John we won't care about titles. Early in his ministry, (1 Corinthians 15:9). Later on he claims to be Again, just before his death, he humbly declares 1:15). Notice how he seemed to grow smaller and with John. I hope and pray that as time passes, and let God have all the honor and glory. my own religious experience, or round upon amazed at the thought of how little humility is discipleship of Jesus. In preaching and living, in in the more special fellowship with Christians, Christ. There is an abundance of proof that the only root from which the graces condition of true fellowship with Jesus.&quot; He was a burning and a shining light (John 5:35). If you take a humble position, Christ will see it. I am afraid that if we had been in John's Christ say? I'm a burning and shining light?&quot; put in the newspaper and had copies sent to our receive an envelope just full of clippings from he is. The whole point is that the man wants man who has such eloquence would be looking for Isn't that embarrassing? Sometimes I think days. Let others praise you. Don't praise let us get down. The lower we get, the higher God those that are born of women there has not risen There is a story told of William Carey, the the governor-general of India to go to a dinner who belonged to the aristocracy and who looked One of those officers said at the table, &quot;I before he took up the profession of missionary?&quot; I was only a cobbler. I could only The one prominent virtue of Christ, next to His grew out of His humility. Scripture: Being in the with God, but emptied himself, taking the form of found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and cross (Philippians 2:6-8). In His lowly birth, His during thirty years, His consorting with the dependence upon His Father, this virtue that was One day, Jesus was on His way to Capernaum and about His resurrection. He heard quite a heated the house at Capernaum, He turned to His disciples I can picture John looking at James, and Peter at be the greater?&quot; That discussion has wrecked To teach them humility, Christ placed a little receive this child in my name receives me, that sent me; for he that is least among you To me, one of the saddest things in the life of crucifixion, His disciples argued about who should Last Supper, and they ate the Passover together. Him as sorrowful before. He knew Judas was going Peter would deny Him. And in addition to that, there arose this strife about who should be the like a slave. Then He took a basin of water, another object lesson of humility. Scripture: for so I am. If I then, the Lord and the ought to wash one another's feet (John 13:13-14). That moment in time marked the difference. kept himself out of sight. He tells what Peter and He tells how they left everything to follow Jerome says that Mark's gospel is to be considered authority. Yet in it we constantly find that and things to his credit are not referred to. in venturing on the sea, but goes into detail Lord. Peter put himself down and lifted others up. it would be signed by the great Dr. Luke, and his find Luke's name in that gospel. He keeps and his name isn't found in either. &quot;the disciple whom Jesus loved.&quot; None of the of the Gospels, lay claim to their authorship in I could just get out of sight and hide myself. the Spirit of Christ. My prayer is that God Let's embrace the hymn, &quot;O, To Be Nothing, hearts. It breathes the spirit of Him who said, Oh, to be nothing, nothing! A broken and emptied vessel- Emptied that He might fill me Broken, that so unhindered A gentleman came to me once and asked which precious. I took some time to look them over, question. It's like a man with a large family he likes best, because he loves them all. But sweetest promises of all. Scripture: Come unto me, give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn ye shall find rest for your souls. For my yoke is There are many people who think the promises already see fulfilled and can't help but believe the promises are not given without conditions. conditions attached to them. For instance, the Lord will not hear me (Psalm 66:18). as long as I'm cherishing some known sin. Scripture: For the LORD God is a sun and shield he will not withhold good from those that under that promise unless I walk uprightly. individuals or nations. For instance, God to multiply as the stars of heaven. That's not to the Jews and don't apply to the Gentiles. promised Adam and Eve that He would send a Christ from coming at the appointed time. When the Holy Spirit. He had only been gone ten days through Scripture, and you will find that some conditions. And if we don't comply with the In the end, I believe that everyone on the face if they complied with the conditions, the Lord the old Hebrew hero, serves as an illustration. He kilns, forty years in the desert, and thirty dying testimony was that not one word has failed spoke concerning you; all are come to pass unto 23:14). I believe it would be easier to lift the we come to a promise like the one we're looking Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy You might think there's nothing new to learn photo album, I don't care if the photos are same with these old, well-known texts. They have bubbling up and it's impossible to drink it dry. That want is rest. The cry of the world today lot of time, energy, and money in establishments bars, and restaurants? Some people think others think they are going to find it in wealth, rest but don't find it. If I wanted to find a person who had rest, I we read of in the twelfth chapter of Luke thought but he was disappointed. Scripture: And I will up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, there is not a person in this wide world who Money can't buy it. Many millionaires would it like stocks and shares. God made the soul possess the entire world and a void would still and even more in keeping it. the pleasure seekers. They indulge in a few there's enough sorrow to counterbalance it. but the cup of pain comes on tomorrow. politicians, or among the so-called great. go. In the Lower House they want to go to to the Cabinet. Then they want to go to the Nor would I go among the halls of learning. Much 12:12). I wouldn't go among high society, because you ever noticed their troubled faces out in They have no hopeful look. Their worship of and found bitter disappointment. In the end came There is no rest in sin. The wicked know nothing are like the sea in tempest, that cannot rest, 57:20). Perhaps you've been on the sea when and it seems as if the sea is at rest. But if and that the calm is only on the surface. no rest since Adam fell. And there will be and the light of Christ shines into his heart. the world can't take it from the believing brought toil, labor, and misery into the world. has heard the sweet voice of Jesus, and laid sweet rest. Thousands could testify to this I heard the voice of Jesus say, Lay down, thou weary one, lay down I came to Jesus as I was, I found in Him a resting-place, Among all his writings, Saint Augustine &quot;Thou hast made us for Thyself, O God, and Do you know that for four thousand years no and spoke like this? It would have been words. Do you think he had rest when he could have uttered such a text as this when he This is one of the strongest proofs but also God. He was God-man, and Come unto me, ... and I will give you rest. Now, if this text wasn't true, don't you think we as much as I believe in my own existence. Why? but also in my own experience. The promises of I thank God for the word give in that passage. we couldn't buy it if it was for sale. I like to have a text like this, because all ye that labour. That doesn't mean a select mean good people only. It applies to saint not for healthy people. Christ wouldn't shut the all. I only meant certain ones.&quot; If you can't A lady told me once that she was &quot;Well,&quot; I said, &quot;it doesn't say all ye vile hearts, hard hearts, soft hearts, all hearts The harder the heart, the more you need to a drug store or to a blacksmith's shop. I take it heart gets out of order, take it to its keeper, that you're a sinner, you're entitled to the There are many believers who think this the thing for them too. What do we see today? with cares and troubles. Come unto me, all ye Christian whose heart is burdened with some Christ the Burden-Bearer therefore, under the mighty hand of casting all your cares upon him, for he cares victorious if Christian people realized that. But Christ is the sin-bearer, but they don't realize Surely He hath borne our griefs and carried our every child of God to walk in unclouded sunlight. their troubles. Then they look into the future and They go reeling and staggering all through life. interact with them. They put on a whining voice believe they carry their troubles in their back The Lord says, &quot;Cast all your cares on Me. I What we want is a joyful church, and we're it. We want to eradicate this long-faced Take the people that bring some great burden they will say, &quot;Oh, wasn't it grand! I dropped their bundle at the end of the pew. they grab the bundle again. You laugh, but Sometimes these people go into their closet and lifted up that they forget their trouble, but off their knees. Leave your sorrow now. Cast to Christ as a saint, come as a sinner. But if it to Him. Saint and sinner, come. He wants you that you can't come if you're willing. Christ A man in one of our meetings in but he was chained and couldn't come. why don't you come chain and all?&quot; Are you angry and easily irritated? Do you and ask Him to help you. Whatever What Does It Mean to Come? tell us what it means to come.&quot; I've given up look at me like I'm speaking a foreign language. try to explain it, the more people are teaches her child is to look. She takes the baby Then she teaches the child to come. She &quot;Come!&quot; Sure enough, the little thing pushes You don't need to go to college to learn how. You Will you come to Christ? He said, He that comes When we have such a promise as this, let's not mocking us. He wants us to come with all into His loving arms. God doesn't just want our And we cannot come through willpower. Action is &quot;I will turn over a new leaf.&quot; But the The way to heaven is the way of the cross. Don't referred to in the Matthew 11 text is? It's the can find rest in this dark world is by taking may include in your case, beyond accepting and behaving like one of His disciples. tell a godless husband that you've made up your want to be a Christian. Follow the will of God, way of obedience is always the way of blessing. one Sunday afternoon. After the meeting was to accept Christ. After some conversation she but didn't see her until the following Sunday of me, and looked like she had lost her into misery instead of the joy of the Lord. asked what the trouble was. this has been the most miserable week of my life.&quot; with and whom she couldn't forgive. &quot;Well, did you tell your friends &quot;Indeed I didn't. I've been trying &quot;Well,&quot; I said, &quot;that's the She wanted to take the crown, but you must go by the way of Calvary. If you ever get She said, &quot;If I go home and tell my unbelieving he'll do. I think he will kick me out.&quot; She left and promised she would tell but she didn't want another wretched The next night I gave a lecture to men only. In solitary woman. When I finished and transitioned lady with her husband. She introduced him to She said, &quot;He wants to become a Christian.&quot; and he accepted Him. I said to her after differently from what you expected, didn't it?&quot; life. I expected he would do something She took God's way and got rest. perhaps you have a godless father or mother or a alcohol. Perhaps there is no one who can reach lady has taken the light into some dark home. mothers and daughters would only speak the Word. a father, two sisters, and a brother sat and picked it to pieces. They were furious to by such preaching. One day, one of the sisters was and see what class of people went there. lady who said to her, &quot;I hope She tossed her head and said, &quot;I with everything I've seen and heard.&quot; with a preconceived expectation.&quot; removed any of it, but reinforced it.&quot; &quot;There is nothing here for me. I don't see To make a long story short, the godly lady got broke up, just a little of the preconception had next day and then attended three or four more nothing to her family until the burden became her and made her the butt of their jokes. the other said, &quot;Now what do you have from &quot;I have a peace that I never knew before. I am She continued, &quot;I have self-control. If you said you've said since, I would have been angry and haven't answered once since I've been converted.&quot; that I don't have.&quot; The converted sister her sister to the meetings, and she found peace. he was a member of the University of Edinburgh. to the meetings? It might be okay for women, but him that a friend of his from the university had his brother got up and confessed. Finally, When the young man heard it, he said, &quot;Do you &quot;Yes.&quot; He put on his hat and coat, and went to down to the meetings, and he was converted. six weeks when news came that that young man had his father to his bedside and said, &quot;Wasn't meetings? Won't you meet me in heaven, Father?&quot; That's the only comfort I have in losing you. I My intention is to encourage some sister to go of us are guaranteed tomorrow. It may be that few months. We are living in solemn days. Isn't of God? Come, wife, won't you tell your husband? you take up your cross now? The blessing I was in Wales once, and a lady told me this a mother, had a daughter that was sick. At Then one day the doctor came in and said the out of the room and told her that the child After the doctor left, the mother went into to the child and tried to divert her mind. music of heaven? You will hear a sweeter song them sing the song of Moses and the Lamb. You are The little, tired, sick child turned I'm so tired and so sick that I think it &quot;Well,&quot; the mother said, &quot;you will soon see and the streets all paved with gold.&quot; She went on The little child again turned her I'm so tired that I think it would make me At last, the mother took the child her loving heart. The little one whispered, only take me in His arms and let me rest.&quot; you weary of the turmoil of life? You can Part VII Seven I Wills of Christ may not mean much. We very often say, &quot;I will,&quot; But when Christ says, I will, He intends to keep able and willing to accomplish. And He's going where He tells us He will do something, then Salvation is found in John's gospel. He that comes to I imagine someone will say, &quot;Well, if I was what my past, it's too dark. I am not fit to come.&quot; come to save the upright and the just. He came astray, sinned, and come short of the glory of the heart. He that comes to me I will in no wise I don't care who the man or woman is. I don't care If they will only come straight to the Master, He Come just as you are and take Him at His word. everyone who comes. He will take those who are who know them. He will take those who have been their wives. He will take those who have sunk so pity any longer. His occupation is to hear and the world for. He left the throne of God to is come to seek and to save that which was lost the world to condemn the world, but that the A wild and wasteful young man, who was running in Chicago. The Spirit of God got hold of him. him to Christ, I quoted that verse to him. &quot;I suppose He did.&quot; &quot;I hope so.&quot; believe it? You do your work, and the Lord yourself into His arms. He will not cast you out.&quot; At last, light seemed to break in upon him, was past midnight when he got down on his I said, &quot;Now, don't think you're going to get The Devil will come to you tomorrow and you only imagined you were accepted by own opinions. Fight him with John 6:37. Scripture: he that comes to me I will in no wise cast out.&quot; to Christ before the Devil attempts to somehow the Devil tries to attack him with doubt The struggle came sooner than I thought in the Devil attacked him. He used this text, How do you know Christ ever really said Into the darkness he went again. He was in he came to this conclusion. He said, &quot;I will if it isn't true, I'll just tell the Lord I When the kings and princes of this world issue the powerful, the honorable, and the wise. But the vilest of the vile. That was the principal fault Pharisees weren't going to associate with harlots was that this man receives sinners and eats have been socially desirable in his time. He, a princely castles. I was very much amused when I Bunyan, and it was unveiled by lords, dukes, they wouldn't have allowed him inside the of the mightiest instruments in the spread of the as close to the Bible as John Bunyan's Pilgrim's how it is with God. He picks up some poor, turn hundreds and thousands to Christ. tabernacle in London with a multitude &quot;The Lord Jesus will save the Devil's castaways!&quot; heard him as his silvery voice rang out into the &quot;That must mean you and me.&quot; They wept and looked inside. The earnest messenger had tears people to give their hearts to God. One of the Later that day, as he sat at the table of someone present said, &quot;Mr. Whitefield, didn't you Lord would save the Devil's castaways?&quot; gave it to the lady. He said, She read, &quot;Mr. Whitefield, two poor lost We heard you say that the Lord would save the last hope. We write you this to tell you From this good hour we shall endeavor to Cleansing We read of a leper who came to Christ. Scripture: behold a man full of leprosy who, seeing Jesus, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. And he put thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed of the leprosy of sin reads this, go to the Master you as He did to that poor leper and say, I will; away from you. It is the Lord, and the Lord alone, I am full of sin. Thou canst make me clean. make me clean. Lord, I have a deceitful heart. me the power to overcome the flesh and the snares If you come to Him with a sincere spirit, you will be done. Do you think that if the God who shalt be clean,&quot; you will somehow not be clean? have health in the place of sickness, and you can the sight of God. The Son of God comes down and health instead. I will take away that terrible and give you my righteousness instead. I will Isn't that wonderful? That's what He means when Confession shall confess me before men, him will I also (Matthew 10:32). There's the I will of confession. man is saved. When we have been washed in the our mouths. We have to confess Christ here in We are not to be ashamed of the Son of God. achieved something that causes his name to be presence of the Queen and her court. How excited did something extraordinary, and someone got up we read, the highest ambition of a successful palace or temple of Confucius. Just think of heaven by the Prince of Glory, by the Son of you confess Him here, He will confess you there. of liberty, you must take your stand on who grope around in the darkness and never because they were ashamed to confess the Son a religion without the cross. They want the be disciples of Jesus Christ, we must take up but daily. And if we take up our crosses and I remember a man in New York who used to He was afraid to confess Christ. He kept his wanted to get it out and read it to his roommate was his cross. After he carried the burden he made up his mind. I will take my Bible out the footsteps of his roommate coming upstairs. decided not to. He would face his companion with said, &quot;John, are you interested in these things?&quot; &quot;For how long?&quot; asked his companion. a whole week I've tried to get my Bible out to &quot;Well,&quot; said his friend, &quot;it's a strange and I too was ashamed to take my Bible out.&quot; &quot;I have lived a godless life for all these of righteousness.&quot; You are ashamed to open your shepherd; I shall not want (Psalm 23:1). You are a disciple of Jesus Christ without bearing His is that Jesus Christ has so few disciples, while requires no cross to bear. There are so few I was struck during the American war with the to the cannon's mouth without trembling, their Bibles to read them at night. They were is the power of God unto salvation. Scripture: him will I also confess before my Father who me before men, him will I also deny before my Service Many Christians get excited and feel compelled Well, Christ says, Follow me, and I will All Christians can help to bring someone to the the earth, will draw all men unto me (John Our Lord said, Follow me, and I will make you on the day of Pentecost, we see the result. Peter as many fish in one day as he did men on that board if they had to drag up three thousand fish. in a stagecoach. There were first-, second-, into the coach, he saw all the passengers didn't understand it till they came to a hill. &quot;First-class passengers keep their seats. Third-class passengers get behind and push.&quot; passengers who think that salvation means an room for second-class passengers who are must work out their own salvation, they trudge brothers and sisters. All church members ought ready to dismount and push all together, and push a church, &quot;All at it, and always at it.&quot; doesn't need to be a preacher or an evangelist employer can be used by God as he labors with relations. Often a man can be far more useful There is one big reason why so many don't &quot;Why is it we don't have any results? We success doesn't come.&quot; I'll tell you why. It their nets. No wonder they never catch anything. the net in to see if you've caught anything. you won't catch many fish. Who ever heard letting it stop there, and never pulling it in? A minister in England came to me one day ministers don't succeed better than we do.&quot; and said, &quot;You ought to pull in your nets. There much better than I can, but I pull in the net.&quot; but I impressed upon him the importance pulled in my net, but I'll try next Sunday.&quot; joined him in his study to have their questions came to see me and said he had never had such a marvelous blessing. The next time he drew the came to see me later, he said to me, &quot;Moody, year! It was such a huge mistake that I If you want to catch men, just pull in the net. may be a little child, but I've known a little what's in that little boy in the inquiry a reformer who will make the world tremble. You world to confound the mighty. God's promise is as promissory notes: Follow me, and I will make you trust it, and follow Him now? and preaches it faithfully, he ought to is the privilege of God's children to reap Some say, &quot;Isn't there a time for Yes, it's true, there is. But you can sow with you think of a farmer who went on sowing all we want to sow with one hand and reap with the we will see it. And I, if I be lifted up from the Christ up, seek men out, and bring them to Him. do this and wonder why they're not successful. You try and catch men. This is a step in the wrong and Him crucified. There's a void inside every them with the right kind of bait, we will catch going to be successful in catching men, we must His life but also His death. If we are faithful of His promise. Follow me, and I will make you to you and me as it was to His disciples. Think of Paul up yonder. People are going home to women who have been brought to Christ through have flowed on for more than a thousand years. &quot;Paul, thank you for writing that letter &quot;Paul, I thank you for writing &quot;Paul, I found Christ in that &quot;I thank you, Paul, for that epistle to I suppose they go up to Paul all the time and in prison he didn't fold his hands and sit in come down through the ages of time. They have of Christ crucified. Yes, Christ said to Paul, &quot;I Me.&quot; And he has been fishing for souls ever smart thing when he maneuvered Paul into prison. I have no doubt that Paul has thanked God ever imprisonment there. We will only know when we get Comfort is found in John's gospel. I will not leave To me it's a sweet thought that Christ here below. Although He has gone up on high He has not left us alone. He didn't leave Joseph When Daniel was cast into the den of lions, they together that they could not be separated. So If we've got Christ with us, we can do all things. lift our eyes up to Him and think of Him as our heaven and on earth. He says, Behold, I am with 28:20). Some of our children and friends leave believer and Christ will never be separated. He's eternity. Not only is He with us, but He also sent acknowledging that He's here in our midst. He has captive, and to open the ears of the deaf that Resurrection another I will in the sixth chapter of John. will raise him up in the last day (John 6:40). power over death. My blessed Master holds the comfort out of that promise than anything else in Some time ago, a dear brother died. And as I face of that brother, that passage ran through &quot;Thank God for that promise.&quot; It When we laid him in the grave, it seemed as if &quot;Thy brother shall rise again.&quot; Glory Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast This was in the context of His last prayer in was crucified and died that terrible death on that they will see the King in His beauty us in the future. Some think that on the first day we get salvation for the past and peace for the the future in store. That's what kept Paul his stripes, and his stonings as nothing, compared things nothing, so that he could win Christ. Remember that the night will soon pass away, and there. It's banished from that heavenly land. entrance to mar that grand and glorious home where will be all together there. It's a glorious nearer than many of us think. During these few and firm. In eternity we will dwell in the world About the Author determined to make a fortune, arrived in Christ found him and his energies were what a ministry it was. Today, Moody's name and more. Moody loved God and men, and the Visit www.anekopress.com for other Thank you for listening to The Overcoming Life All rights reserved taken from the Jubilee Bible, Used by permission. Visit our site to see other