Weaknesses are about to be exposed. We need more Grenadier! Will we see it again? Did you get rid of the Grenadier? I guess that right there Yes. I most In fact, since Shark Bay it's done nearly and tested on Bornholm beach, The Holland track for 300km of just mud! and a short stint in Brunswick over six sthousand kilometers later. Does it still impress me? Nothing's perfect. Well, I guess the real question is about the Ineos Grenadier Not only that, as a bonus, to drive this for a full day at Bornholm, the beach is soft is a very fitting I've caught up with Harry, what the Grenadier can Skip is about to face I would say, the most difficult Considered by many to be many beaches on the WA coast And because of that, some iconic beaches. Out here we have rubber mats This one doesn't have it and hopefully What a great opportunity to give this a go. Now definitely struggled If you come to Bornholm Beach you will learn about tire pressures before to climb the flat yet very soft beach So good on the beach. The handling of this thing. It's just nice All right. Enough fun for me. Time to give Harry a go. First drive of a grenadier in the sand. Oh, they shouldn't have given me the keys. It's a good thing. That's full throttle. Very nice. Definitely slower than a 300 series. Slower than my tuned Prado. Because my tuned Prado has more But it's not a slow car on the highway. I think they drive quite well. Nothing special, but. But certainly not bad. Okay, so he likes it, It's really nice. It's really nice to drive! off road it, Yeah. Surprisingly, So we're not locked or anything, we're Let's see what it can really do. Here we go up Bornholm beach exit. Take this really wide, Oh, did it in one turn. Just just slowed me down a bit. It's very chewed up hey. a lot of activity over the weekend All right. This is the hardest bit. And normally you'd have to use a lock locker here. I'm not locked in this car at the moment. Wow. Okay. Tire pressure and wheel This makes it feel easy. Really looking forward to seeing what Sucks on this thing. It drives it really well. I've Run Ronny!. Holy s**t! Oh, what a goal. It's so much better than my Prado It hurts. Power, is very good. I do find myself dropping off the tracks a little bit occasionally, The suspension is very kind of reminds me of like a GU in terms of the way it moulds to the road. What's your verdict mate? Easiest car That's funny you should say that because Yeah, I was driving up like, well, Just like idling off the base. I fell out of one of the ruts It's like just, 20% Do you reckon Cause it's so wide? It's grabbing the edges of the track or? No, I don't know... It's just it's it's got really direct nice feel in the steering, but it's too slow. That's my sort of thoughts. So I go oh yeah. Cool. I've made a correction then i go Oh overcorrect- it's like a boat. Yeah. I'm like oh this is. Yeah. Yeah. It's like a boat And as I left Bornholm Beach, I'm telling you You don't realize how capable it the paces on terrain that you've taken Until you do that, you don't really grasp how much better it is. At the end of the day lower tires and four wheel drive if you get that right, everything's That said, through some difficult stuff and you know that you've had to, you know, or whatever to get up, with the same conditions That says something. And of all the vehicles drives, this is the one Well, that was very positive. But weaknesses are about to be exposed. Oh wow. 300km of mud and mud holes like that. Is it? Mud And a lot of dirt Definitely caused a few little issues Mud for most vehicles is a bit Vehicles that have a lot of extra tech. And it's not the tech that you really need It's tech, like the sensors, the bumper These are the sensors I'm talking about. There's about four in the back. These sensors, or behind, I guess all modern vehicles they just go off. You can opt to not have those sensors on After asking the question. Because if you do have them every single time you get in the vehicle it's one of those things That's the button right there. Turn parking assist off, turns all the sensors off the little tooty there's two horns. Well, the toot horns stop working. A bit of dirt got into the little pushy These push buttons got a little bit dirty which meant that it stuck in Just had to toggle this thing on the back And we found that However, on a positive note, that was vital to the vehicle, It got through it fine with a lot of modern vehicles. they have all these little fancy bumpers with all that extra century wire That's You see, in a very basic vehicle with a hose and the cavities are so big But for these and all modern vehicles So what fixed the issues in the end? Cleaning the car. That was it. Some of you might think that I'm And you're correct, I am. The thing is, if a vehicle they're never perfect. You got to point out the bad, otherwise Here's another negative. I'll return to this thought Back to the Holland track. Having had a handful of different vehicles made it much clearer how the grenadier really handled the terrain up mount Holland in the Ineos, how does it feel? A heck of a lot more comfortable. Definitely not getting tossed around There goes my Sunnies! Unless you jump in and out of the cars. You don't really gauge A bit more booty, I've heard those words before overcorrect Then i overcorrect and I'm like oh, Let me define boaty, vehicle, That is an advantage It just seems to I don't know, it just This will outflex Its wheel And I think Harry even mentioned reminds I mean it is pretty wide and it does more That said, it's weight when it came to the Holland track, OH the back is really sliding. Whoopsie, conditions, like mud, especially close There is more chance of the grenadier sliding into the hole and that's due to the steering, the weight being wider. But in most other situations However, mud is its weakness. 6000 kilometer on road reports. Out of all the questions it's the left foot thing. It's now been 6500km. And how do I feel about the left I still stand by what I said earlier. After Shark Bay I said it does That said, if I don't wear boots And I've said that before and I still It's not the greatest. Having the opportunity to ask Harry He knew it was coming Did you wear boots? So I didn't notice the lump Okay, Yeah, because the feet thing, So I don't have overly big feet, For me, driving because my foot just happily so it's not really a problem for those who own a grenadier what do you think about the left Does it bother you? And can you give us your height given We're talking about on road stuff. I'm going to vent a little bit That is such a pain to go through. First of all, I couldn't find anywhere I found a truck stop, The guy wouldn't turn the pump on because why am I not at the normal pumps? And then he realizes, By the time I got the adblue The breather kept clogging up The hole is so small it took forever. The whole process took about half an hour, and that's when I found a place to do it. Now that I know that, I'm sure I can do it You only have A few things have been added to skip, but only one of them is done You were already aware of the 30L tank, is that Jerrycan holder But I'm carrying fuel because The fuel capacity is not great. I left the electric pump at home I had to go and get one of those jiggle Pretty damn fast too... you don't need to get a pump You just get a jiggle hose, and it's much easier than lifting it off And I've increased the fuel range and not by putting Jerries on the roof. No, no, I managed to do this This ladder is from Europe. I believe it's from Germany. LeTech. This can hold another Jerry simply by this strap right here. You'd think it'll scratch the grenadier, But it doesn't just gotta be careful like so. But when you do this part that holds it and it does not move kilos, actually So the ladder just goes into And speaking of the rear of the vehicle. I've also added the cargo barrier. Finally, it's not just to stop stuff I'm actually going to put stuff on to this The rest will all be done in the coming Add a table right here. In preparation for possibly Adios!