- [Reacher] If you want than the cookie cutter homes then we have some options for you. This is Reacher with Minds Eye Design and here are 15 crazy homes (subdued electronic music) Number 15: Building a home around a but there's something about that makes it stand out from all the others that have done so. The tubular shaped structure is designed to wrap enveloping the trunk and branches. Metal columns support the with concrete and wooden flooring separating the four A spiral staircase allows as well as adding to the the central focus of the tower. The estimated price of $325,000 may seem a bit high to some people but those 360 degree panoramic views may just change your mind. (subdued electronic music) Number 14: The design of this contemporary home is based on the pit dwellings of early Japanese architecture. The pyramid shape contains three levels with the communal floor below ground level. It's composed of a living with windows running corner to corner on all four sides. The upper floors contain and office space. Each level is connected by a staircase that rises through an open The floor space adds up to The modern minimalist interiors are a sharp contrast to and its lack of windows. Number 13: If an architect from the future designed the great pyramids of Egypt this is probably what they Not much is known about the structure other than the basic details. It was originally for the architect's personal use. The two-storey single family dwelling has roughly 3600 square which includes four bedrooms The home last sold in 1995 for $375,000. It's currently valued at around $814,000. I'm guessing this house Number 12: This house is claimed to be measuring just four feet The triangular shaped in total area and sits on stilts between in a space roughly five feet wide. The house is accessed underneath using a retractable as part of the first A bathroom, kitchen, make up the first floor. A wall mannered ladder where the sleeping area There's also a third floor attic Number 11: This home looks like a big landed on earth after it exploded. If you don't know what the death star is then you can safely This isn't your run of the The designers intended it to with some of the areas scaled up and down just enough to retain the original shape. The floor plan has a and main living area with the deck and gardens on either side. The upper floor has three more bedrooms and a secondary living area. There's also a rainwater collection system that provides water to the gardens. Who knew the empire employed such devices? Number 10: This split-level home for all future silo projects and it's all contained in a The owner took approximately 18 months to complete the project while designing all the furniture and cabinetry from scratch. A sliding door opens up to a main floor a bathroom, dinette and living room. A spiral staircase leads to a loft that houses the bed and storage areas. The skylight sits where the There's also a floor-to-ceiling window that spans both floors with the lower half serving All of this adds more to make anyone feel right at home. Hey everyone! Be sure to hit that subscribe button and click on the bell icon to keep up with all the latest Number nine: The owners of this three-storey home were going for eco-friendly when they built it. Not only did they build a cob house, they took it one step further and covered the house The dome does more than just protect the house from the elements. It also provides an area for gardening that can be used throughout The airflow in the dome is maintained using a system of underground pipes. The constant temperature of the earth ensures warm air in the winter Wenson windows in the house allow air circulation It sounds like a lot of But just imagine just watching a thunderstorm through the dome. Number eight: Not much is known about but the story goes that back in 1968 a group of friends thought that a rock in the middle of the river would be an ideal place So that's exactly what they did. The materials for the building Then everything was built by hand. It's claimed that the tiny shelter has withstood the rising tides but you can see from the photos that modifications have including a new roof and paint job. Although it's accessible the home is actually private property that is still used by one of the builders for a vacation getaway. Number seven: Like most others on this list there aren't many details available. But what is known is that he'd build a house on top of this factory due to overcrowding because China. The multi-room houses look from the ground level. They even mirror each other in their form with balconies overlooking the city. Unfortunately, the houses due to design issues and safety concerns for the workers in the factory below. Usually the boss can do I guess not in China. Number six: It's not actually livable is definitely a piece of creative genius. It looks as if it is balancing The car in the driveway and the tree beside the porch The house is open to visitors and can be accessed by The living room has furniture, a fireplace and even a Christmas tree. The kitchen has plates of and you can even go into the bathroom and look up into the toilet bowl. If you sneak up into or should I say down into the attic, you'll find an assortment of Before you leave just make sure to take doing your best imitation of Spider-Man. Number five: Would you believe this and not an oversized play place for kids? The owner not only got approval for this but was able to stay within The house looks like an oversized VW bug. And though it looks crazy it's actually very Aluminum spiral staircase connects all three of the floor levels which provide about 900 Large windows allow natural which add to the energy The owner spent a little building this thing. Then he turned around inspired by the house. How's that for carchitecture? Number four: This house was built during of the 60s and 70s for The designer built it for check out this name, Signal Mountain. A retractable staircase allows access to the In addition to the three the house has most of and lots of retro furniture. There's also a balcony in case you need to make a quick escape from that alien with that probing thingy. Although a standout when the house hasn't managed It last sold for about half Number three: Don't let the name of this one fool you. This entry isn't about architraaz or that famous wrestler who thought everybody could The official name is Rockland Ranch. But it's referred to as The Rock by the people living there. It's actually a series of homes that have been blasted and near Moab, Utah. The sub-terrainian caverns Then modern homes were constructed inside and over time have been such as electricity, running Currently, there are still living there. Number two: This former water tower clocks Around 2007, it was renovated and turned A total of seven levels that includes a two car garage, a bedroom with a domed ceiling, dining area and a bathroom There's also a steel that leads to a terrace with and an outdoor shower. And yes, if I lived here, I would go on the roof at passerby on a daily basis. Have you found your future home yet? If not, this last entry on the Don't forget to comment after the video and let us know what you thought of these off the wall choices. Number one: This 914 square foot house has a spacious interior arranged at various heights. They're attached to a wide with glass walls and a glass ceiling as well as areas that Although minimalist in design, there is a lot of furniture due to every level having a purpose. Moving from one area to another is easy due to the intuitive nature of the design as well as stairs that are incorporated into some of the floors. The lack of walls is supposed to make it easier to connect with the other inhabitants, So if you think you've then try spending a few days in this one. You might just change your mind. - Hey guys! This is Cassie. I hope you guys enjoyed this video. Tell us in the comments below what you found to be the Also, if you haven't done so yet, make sure to hit the bell notification next to the subscribe button to stay up to date with Thank you for watching! I'll see you guys next time. (upbeat rock music) Here's tomorrow and I'm holding on Search for the lost