Support for this Howard K. and Nancy B. Cohen, the Jack Forte Foundation, and the following: It is a fragile existence on Sanibel in the We're a peninsula We#re very vulnerable We're very vulnerable to rising tides. Our biggest threat and our way of life is Richard Johnson and his family the oldest store on The family business has endured multiple storms since 1899. In 2022, its longevity with Hurricane Ian. Islanders fled as the barreled toward Sanibel. OK, hold on, kitties. [meow] I know, I know. The dire forecasts A 13-foot storm surge overtook the small island. The powerful water and wind damaged or destroyed, thousands Ian's force washed out sections the only road to the mainland. Sanibel was battered and broken. A symbol of hope emerged. The historic lighthouse The Johnson family was among who returned by boat The store pretty And I looked at my daughter, hey, this is not that bad. I think we're going to be OK. I said back to him, You need to come inside. I was not prepared You can see we had to the ceiling here. When we saw the waterline and everything was upended, I knew that this would The island was the worst hurricane to hit Residents faced tough decisions and threats of more Sanibel, its founding families and the island's iconic store were at a crossroads. I think since the storm, we have seen, every And I think that we#ve, just pushed it down plugged away. The year after Hurricane Ian, islanders were in when Bailey#s Shopping Center When that store came down, for the entire island and to, to mourn. Not having the store sitting at the corner it's a very odd experience. You know, you need some bolts Well, I'm just going to run down And then you stop and you can't run down The center had housed the third iteration of Bailey The family's first store was A history of island resiliency can be traced through Bailey's Without Bailey's, Sanibel would just be like Bailey's was a of the whole evolution And Francis Bailey was the most welcoming person imaginable. Francis, part of the second was the island's grocer I think he really And that was kind of He, he did everything he Frances Bailey is He#s the personification in so many ways that we, the forever mayor of Sanibel. It#s been my home forever. And it just well, it#s home, that's it. and it#s just it#s, part a whole heck of a lot of me. Francis' father and uncles They came to Florida to farm after their family's There were three Bailey brothers Frank, Harry, and Ernest. Ernest arrived first. And he wrote back that I've got a great place and the family to this island And that's where [banjo music] Well, in many cases, ah there were people that, that and I think that#s partially, partially if not totally true sort of reached the in a way and, and It#s like people people came down here. Back then, many islanders One of the reasons was probably storm surge Back in the 1800s, we had a couple of them that very similar to Ian. So you have kind of that is one of the reasons were particularly, good tasting. The Sanibel tomato became where it was a revelation to get a fresh tomato And the people in New York got to know our tomatoes And they would go in the store and actually, in New York City At the time, there was People and their necessities In 1899, Frank Bailey, Francis# father, founded the precursor But somebody had to order the mules, the plows, the overalls, the white bacon, and shovels, hoes, seeds, And it evolved into a store. The store sat on a from there, boats shipped like Key West, The Bailey business grew Francis# father, Frank Bailey, married Her family ran which later became The hotel was an who relished the In 1921, Frank and Annie welcomed Frances, The Baileys were doing well. They were landowners during the And a lot of subdivisions on the island, including one But the bubble burst of a destructive storm. The 1926 hurricane turning point in the The Great Miami hurricane After annihilating Miami, it plowed west, through the It just skirted the coast into the Gulf. So, it captures the worst When the eye passed Bailey's employees tried In a lull of the storm we carried stuff out of in what they called a tea room, and that was right That's when the eye was on. So it didn't take it long, had to work pretty fast. The storm surge For many farmers, it was a final blow. And you had a lot of people who had been farming What#s the point? It's time to stop, you know, I can sell the land The Category 4 storm forced half of the island's The general store was destroyed. The family rebuilt, not But this time on shore. Because island life Other landmarks had I guess you could say that because it wasn't built the little post office was built entirely out of because they just pulled it and hammered it back up. The natural disaster was followed by The Great Depression Frank Bailey accepted He wouldn't give and other things ah, charge account got outta line. But he never turned People gave him and the Baileys came During the decade- the island felt empty. And if a car went by and You#d run at the who in the hell is Somebody new, somebody In the absence the second generation Francis, John and Sam, were each other's We went to swamps and played And we like the beach Remember when they Well, we originated that. What we would do was, is we would go to and run up in the bushes take all our clothes off and It wasn't because we worried we was just trying to get While Sam was the Francis was the A torment more You#d count hundreds if you had to hold, hold yourself still And I remember when and some guy said, I couldn't sleep last night, I had a mosquito in my room. I just burst out laughing. A mosquito? Like the Baileys, other island families The Gavins arrived Not long after came the Walkers. The families blended Edmund Gavin and Elnora Walker, who had 20 children. Mom and dad, the baby and, whoever was lived in one room, the girls lived in one room and the boys lived in one room. And I can remember, um four boys being in one room, one bed, you know, two heads down here and two heads down here And we had to deal I do remember that. Sanibel#s Black residents They cared for children, tended crops, and helped develop the island, working jobs like construction. And even some of that were here on Sanibel, if it wasn't for the they wouldn't have we supported them so much, with helping their Black residents which had become an essential Despite such contributions, to legal segregation The Gavin brothers recalled when the island for white and Black children. We walked to school and the white kids rode At that time, when it rained in the road, you'd see the bus and we'd try to get and get off the road But now the bus driver and her husband were But yet she and give us a ride, even though we played together. Yet islanders relied no matter their color. The bus driver#s family shared fish and went I was on the back of the truck and they gonna put the alligator And I said, No, um um I#ll walk back home first. I'm not gonna ride with no kind of alligator. And they let me ride up front. But, you know, we, we got along real The Gavins also traded food another early family They would kill a hog you know, we#re come out there and be with us. So we went, and ah, we'd always Sometimes we had more fish than we knew what to do with we'd figure out a way Because think about it, there was no damn telephone. There was no road from here. My dad was a fisherman, ah, fishing guide and a bootlegger. and ah, mean as Ralph's father, Sam Woodring, His mother, Esperanza, She worked many jobs and was revered best fishing guides around, the only woman guiding. If she liked you, you could and she'd put up with Or if she didn't like you, There was a lawyer from And so she took him out and she had him up in the creek He had hooked his lure, scrambling out there Wait a minute, wait a minute. And he fell the [splashing] So he come back and he she pushed him in the water. And she said, you know, if I#m gonna hit him The respected angler even as her doctor She said, man, just as long as I can crawl I'm going fishing, now, And she did. While residents worked they often ended up at My mother used to, every day, she would go Bailey#s and she#d show up 10, Bailey knew she was coming, and he#d hang around let her come in and and then he#d By then, Francis Bailey, the was in charge of His path to grocery Francis had left the island then headed to college. After World War II broke In the late 1940s, Francis returned to Sanibel to discover that the His father, Frank, After a little nudge, And ah, he thought he fiddle diddled around, you know, this and that and the other. And then one day, the old man got in there with and he jumped out of bed time to quit playing, and earn your pay and from that day on, he's [laughter] It was under Francis that Bailey's General Store for residents like Her family moved to the island The island was very buggy. We had alligators in our pond, almost every daylight We went to a school and we had friends, as to how many friends because the island was And so there was only so far Bailey's, its penny candy, and waterfront location was We would come to the store in the summer every day. There was the county where the mail order came in, and when the mail boat it was our playground. We would go flying off that into the deepest part of And we always had Deb's twin brother, worked at the You saw the same people They came the same day, And you just knew them all. In that bunch were Dessa Rosse from nearby who drove up in a big Yeah, I'd see it pull in Oh boy, Dessa is here. [laughter] And I think she was the type with a cigarette hanging out her she needs this, she needs that. Bailey's was a place on the sparsely- You know, you just on, you know, dirt roads, and wave, The only communication That's where you caught and that's where all the, you know, and there There was no shortage Leaders like Francis Bailey population by starting When we first started out with the fogging, we had two different kinds of little, ah, portable foggers that we put on the back of a truck. One of them was a Dyno-Fog, which was really like a, ah jet engine. It made one heck of a racket. [buzzing] Francis wore several even volunteer fireman. Residents fought fires with shovels and palmetto fronds until they got their Francis was a caretaker to many. In 1960, he opened as Hurricane Donna I'm sure Francis would have this thing's coming at us, let's all stay at my house. By then, Francis and his wife were living If you were mid-island But for the rest of us we went to Francis Bailey's The Baileys took in dozens Francis fed his from the store as the Bailey survived that Category 4, In the aftermath, Francis the store open to feed residents Francis knew how to He was more concerned overdevelopment I love of people but ah, you can get Like other islanders, to a proposed bridge I was opposed to it. Fought it tooth and nail. I#ll give you a good example. was supposed to and I own that land, and I wouldn't give it to 'em I thought it would stall The Sanibel Causeway priming the island and ending the ferry service. Without the ferry, Bailey's was essentially So, a few years later, to its third location It was a busy time for Francis. His children would go to My dad, he wasn't So we#d just ride our bikes up and hang out and just Francis and his wife including Mead. And then the fifth child So there were five of us, The youngest was still a baby Francis relied on island mothers with fatherhood. We had a couple of nannies Esperanza Woodring and we'd go to her house and just have a great time. She cooked on a wood stove. I mean, just back in the day, um, nice breeze off the bay. The historic Woodring The island has long attracted The first times I#ve ever was from shell collectors, said oh yeah, oh, no you need to go to Sanibel Island and other shells. It was wonderful because In 1945, the federal the Sanibel National The preserve was later a political cartoonist Darling was instrumental 6000-acre refuge that provides critical habitat There's a Bailey link We're here at the Bailey tract, which is a part of the "Ding" Darling Refuge. And what's very unique about it in the middle of "Ding" Darling bought the first The federal government Early conservation to the island#s sea turtles. Residents began Very early on, my husband, Jim, ah, got involved who had founded ah, which was all about the Islanders were the best way One practice, now prohibited, was to relocate vulnerable eggs Betty and her husband stored off the beach until they My kids were out playing and, and warned me There#s usually in a nest So, you know, they We ran halfway to the beach, picking up turtles, including and they came out and helped got them all safe However, in the the overriding impulse was to sell paradise, Around that time, Porter Goss settled on Sanibel. He came to recover contracted during his I was overseas working But it was very life- that I not continue He left the CIA with a And I said, OK, what do I say? They said, you can't ever And I said, well, never mind. I'm going to Florida. He and his wife became where the same question how to manage growth At the time, the island counted and Sanibel was But county plans called than what many islanders The commissioners led by people who were, golden egg and we And we don't really care Never underestimate Porter Goss and two sought to mobilize the community They banded with the Island Reporter in 1973. Islanders lined up People would be I mean, it was, it was really during the high drama That drama drew headlines In those days it was national I mean, can this little bunch of environmentalists development Yet not everyone Wary of taxes and bureaucracy, Francis Bailey was also He was just what he he#s standing back who are these Yankees from trying to tell us what to do He wasn't sure but on the other hand, Lee County government. And it was, it was a case as it was with a number of us. In the end, Francis incorporation was the best way In 1974, more than 60% of island voters chose to become the City of Sanibel, independent from Lee County. Porter Goss became Yes, I was the mayor, Francis was elected He later officially and became the city's longest He wasn't a politician. He was ah, advocate The first council got to work. They put a moratorium on growth as they developed what The landmark document and capped growth at a level As Francis poured his time his younger brother Sam I would say when Sam he was always out front. He was a lot more gregarious You know, like, Francis would but he always thought he had to get back to Together, the brothers their identities intertwined You didn't have Bailey's without Francis Under the second generation, from a humble store to an Tourists flocked to Sanibel's and Bailey's. Francis worried about ceding His big thing was first second generation builds it, and third generation loses it. And that was, But his attitude would change in So, I'm watching Hurricane and move towards So I, I literally see it make that, that hook and head right straight the islands of By then, Francis was Richard knew that Francis and despite an evacuation order. I called my father-in-law, and I said, Francis, um are you ready for this? And he said, yeah, it's just We have those all It's not that he didn't it's that he preferred by family and friends. Hurricane Charley hit as a small but powerful Category 4. In the aftermath, Bailey's was once again The Bailey family would feed people out of their They would bring ice over to the island and give it away in bags and, and they were where you and you could meet up with with other business owners some sense of normalcy during Richard traveled to the island I worked with Sam and Francis back in operation. And I was getting ready in Jacksonville. I said to the two brothers, What's your business I said, I want to be respectful, you guys are getting old. And that's when his brother, and made the statement: We're happy that you asked because we were hoping Francis had warmed up to taking over. You know, Publix offered and you know, he was very adamant that Yet, he also valued If Richard and Mead How you doing today? What can I help you find? ... they would have to buy it. We actually purchased from Sam and Francis in 2006, but we didn't tell anybody. The family knew, That was a way to, to, um honor the two brothers. They soon discovered that Francis was keeping Francis had been propping up the financially, because he didn't Richard and Mead began though it had been decades since Bailey's was The second generation's era Sam Bailey died in 2010. Francis kept working He got to a point he couldn't and we offered to put an elevator and he wouldn't In his final days, Bailey's at the forefront of his mind. For real, on his deathbed, take care of the store, And I think he felt comfortable leave this earth feeling his legacy would live on. Francis died on the last of the second When we left this house, And my wife and I looked over ... the flag was flying That was to acknowledge Francis Bailey's passing. That's how important and the community. The Bailey family legacy Francis and his brothers Bailey-Matthews National Shell and Francis sold the 28-acre Sanibel Captiva which is preserving it. Along with the Bailey Tract, there's also Bailey Road, and the visitor center, named in Francis' honor. He could not have been He wanted you to, The younger generations to serving and fighting We want to make sure that charge that Meanwhile, Sanibel faced new In 2017, Hurricane Irma Though the island the family quickly It was literally the five of us first responders, um you know, every electric A year later, Sanibel suffered Persistent quantities of sea life [Red tide blooms are continuing north up Florida's [Toxic tide blooms [Also, fish kills suspected to were recorded from the...] Nutrients, including pollution and agriculture, fueled Sanibel sits right in of the Gulf of Mexico, and everything So we are ground zero for that. The crisis was a wake-up call. The environment could not At Bailey's, the family wove a conservation phasing out plastic bags Dane Johnson was the first to join the family business. Richard and Mead's Bailie and Calli, followed, to some degree unexpectedly. I didn't dream of groceries [chuckles] or taking out the trash or, you know, putting the eggs There's a huge family legacy oldest daughter, but also take joy in Somehow, we've managed this long and nobody's So, I definitely plan as long as the That community is still small, with less than 7000 residents Thanks to the founding vision nearly 70% of the island The Sanibel Plan seeks to So we're fortunate in we went up against name your grocery store we, we wouldn't have a chance. The third and fourth generation which still carried a vibe By mid-September 2022, the permits were ready. In late September, another storm So with that, we're going to to newly formed Tropical Storm Within a few days, Sanibel and the were in the crosshairs. And we now find ourselves in in Lee County. During evacuations, by the Sanibel Police Department And ah, he asked are you've gonna, when I said I#m not leaving, And he didn't say nothing. He just looked at me. And I said chief I'm just trying to get you [chuckles] The Johnson family until forecasts would essentially swallow I haven#t seen numbers like this 12 to 18 feet ... And we all met to make sure Everything was going to Little did we know Part of doing business or living in this area is hurricanes. How it always has been, But at the end of the day, Mother Nature will do whatever Sometimes you lose. [Fastest I#ve ever gone down [meow] The third and fourth were now facing Hurricane Ian rapidly hitting Florida on It was the fourth strongest in state history. On Sanibel, the large, was considered the worst storm to hit the island since 1926. [They gotta see it. You got to see it The apocalypse isn't so bad. This was the G-d that hit here in my time that's around and It was wicked. When it hit, it just tore [And did you stay Oh, hell yes. Ralph Woodring and his on the family's homestead. Their bayfront home bore It was hard to judge There#s three kinds OK, there's the water there's the waves And then the damn breakers come. So you know which one I don't know. I can't tell you. Ah, there's an Johnny Cash sings it I guess, and that's about the way it was. It was all the damn water then some more so. As the hurricane churned, Ralph left his house He became trapped eventually taking His wife, Jean assumed About just before daylight I got back in the house and the stairs had washed away so Jeannie could not get down. But I hollered at her thought I was dead, but I wasn#t. Life or death moments Residents recalled them Storm surge is no joke. It was like a raging river. By that point, the whole house I told my mom to hold And I said, at that point, mom, And she said, sweetie, Just keep your faith going. That night I called my brother, Dick, and I said, you have to leave. But he didn#t. He had to stand on his couch for two hours with water up to his neck. His brother was among rescued across the region. [helicopter] [We're going to get. There's a whole bunch Thousands of em, take, You'll be all right. You'll have food, water [helicopter] The island was a disaster zone. Thousands of structures dangerous or had Whole sections of cutting off road Eugene Gavin returned by boat And I come through the front You slide, you can slide on in here And I said the front ain#t too [chuckles] When he saw the broken glass scattered inside, he But it done blown in, just exploded like bunch of little glass in here. All over. Some was in there and I#m looking and I say, boy, Velma#s got a lotta [chuckles] The Johnson family for rescuers So we came out here with plywood on a skiff and rode our bikes with chainsaws in the basket what we might need The hurricane-rated doors, the sliding glass doors, were completely ripped off and kind of And when I looked inside the That was a low point business [You can see ...] After prior storms, the family prided themselves For Ian, they had We thought for sure we were,would be firing right after the storm, just like we always have for residents looking for on the island. There is nothing Neither was the after the rubble was decided to demolish While it was the it would not be the end There was never a moment that Well, the decision for them to rebuild is a huge morale And, and so the idea, man, I#ve not thought about little emotion, but the fact that they're coming back is what's getting us There was a pervasive sense Something like this to wonder what your future is. It, it shakes a lot And you know, plans [Yeah, I think For many islanders, the decision in questions of cost, There were also people who was not going anywhere. Still, it took 449 days for him and his wife Anything that we did or whatever was only tried to it originally was, because ah, there's damn little Eugene Gavin chose to stay too. I feel at home, I know I'm home, because I have And I'm comfortable here. Other islanders left for good. New people were A lot of these ground You know, the people They just sold what was left. And here comes new people And finally, great, We'll take our chances here. Sanibel holds a sacred space And that's the It's such a wonderful community, in your blood. And sure, there are mosquitoes but it was still the best And, um, it still is. Seeing the island change after Hurricane Ian has It's really hard because you can feel the change. I'm in real estate, so I see all of the for sale signs and I know what I know what families and I'm on And so I came out and saw all of our historic how many of them had so bad that they And it's very depressing, very depressing. While the iconic lighthouse the keeper cottages did not. The chamber slogan after Ian ... Not perfect, but still We're seeing our restaurants and our attractions come But we all know that room nights, it's going to be Yet there has been progress. Several hotels have reopened. The lighthouse was restored. There's excitement about how We're going to build to a level that, that is unlike on this island before, But for some, the outlook Many islanders are well versed on a barrier island. It's unclear I could throw in there that, Everybody just says to a climate denier and move on. [chuckles] While Ian was a storm the next monster hurricane [Forecasters say Hurricane later today on Florida's [Again, the key messages here for Helene as head into what#s [First it was Hurricane Helene. Then it was Hurricane Milton. In just two weeks, Florida was battered Climate change is real. It is not political. It is science and we know storms are getting stronger, more frequent. Even without a hurricane, rising seas could bring In the next century, there could be multiple How can we build sustainably that will probably I mean, I get choked up I don't want to It was a common feeling. A citizen-led coalition Captiva Island formed to promote As a barrier island community, we're on the front lines And you know, people didn't As San-Cap resilience the threat of extreme weather Gather your input and make sure resilience group is, we wrestled with, you know, And we thought it was wiser to say because we really don't know We're very vulnerable. Some islanders are thinking as they rebuild. Others are elevating The coalition has asked the city to integrate resiliency When the Sanibel Plan um, it recognized overdevelopment and we think it's time climate change as a The Johnson family considered that risk as Now is the time if we're going Um, because if I have kids and they I don't want them The new Bailey Center will align focused codes and be elevated to account for flooding. We're we're looking forward I mean, you can stay or you can build it better. So, you#ll have to look at the In 2024, the blueprints were finally ready to go before the city's Among the complicating factors He was the mayor. His children, Dane and Bailie, The barrier islands and we know and appreciate that returning back to normalcy. Plans called for modernizing You know, and you don't going on, on this island, we're in the tunnel The approval was unanimous. Um, with gratitude So proud. Dane had me choked up too. I really am, um, you did, you you both did fantastic. Your grandad's super I know he#s up there watching us Yeah, yeah. Yes he is. Yeah. Now let's get this thing Yeah. Whoo! [laughter] The next step was going Richard recused himself from the vote and Again, the approval The family could start planning projected to start in 2025. Bailie understood to get through the city's hoops. There's a real fear in losing And we're appreciative to keep things the same But in order to not go we have to change some things. It, it's emotional. But it's one that, um, is, is well worth I miss the old Bailey's. I do too. We'll be back. A worthy investment. But as, as the bean counter, Like, I don't even think it will And yet, the fourth generation that this iteration of Bailey's I don't think that the last Bailey#s In reality, this island And that ten feet the building I'm not sure what the, what the island's In my head, Bailey#s will be there and you in the very distant future. [chuckles] Why have so many generations stayed on Sanibel We're stubborn as hell. We're determined. And there's a lot of us that are very determined because we are the caretakers for, that is very precious. [What is it like being a For me, it's like having several hundred extra sets and that can go And they missed the ferry and they said no Christmas Santa Claus fell on an I remember that tale. No, that's the truth. Well, it may be the truth. Coming from mother#s And the truth is that CIA never owned more That, of course, is [chuckles] Um ... Support for this Howard K. and Nancy B. Cohen, the Jack Forte Foundation, and the following: