Being able to do something for someone else gives me the most satisfying feeling of accomplishment. My father is better at technology. 1-6-1 Uomachi, Kokuraku, Kitakyushu City, Fukuoka Prefecture 198m from Heiwadouri Station You can enjoy rice cooked in an earthenware pot and robatayaki (fresh seafood cooked on a grill) here. "Earthenware Pots and Seafood Yuge" Purchasing. Kitakyushu City Central Marine Products Market. The person in charge of purchasing at "Yuge" chooses the ingredients. Fresh sea urchin from Hokkaido. Clams. Octopus. Oysters. The race begins and they move. Red sea bream. Land octopus. Tora fugu. Buzen oysters. Raw sea urchin, surf clam and green caviar from Hokkaido. Firefly squid. Load the remaining ingredients into the car. Take the fish you've bought to the store. The ingredients that have been purchased are unloaded from the truck. Yuge's cook, Mr. Yamamoto, arrives at work. A variety of dishes centered around rice cooked in an earthenware pot and fresh seafood. Assorted sashimi, 1 portion 1,650 yen (from 2 portions). Saury, salmon roe and Japanese parsley rice in an earthenware pot 2,187 yen. Beef with shaved beef 2,728. Live large clam 550 yen. Large fatty mackerel 748 yen. Miso-flavored omelette with shellfish 1,408 yen. Grilled oysters from 660 yen. Broiled sea bream sashimi, 1,680 yen. Fugu sashimi. Cutting up a kue fish. Kue fish. Skin is peeled off. The belly is cut open and the skull is cut. Remove the internal organs. Remove the head. The fish is filleted into three pieces. The fillets are chilled in iced water and wrapped in paper. 17:00 OPEN. Customers arrive as soon as the shop opens, and the seats fill up immediately. Introduction of recommended menu items. We recommend the sashimi platter to start with. This is a selection of prawns, sea urchin and abalone caught from the fish tank on the second floor. We will serve a selection of about seven types of fresh fish. This dish can be enjoyed with seasonings that match each ingredient. Next up is live large surf clams grilled on the robatayaki grill. These are clams caught in Hikawa Island, Aichi Prefecture, and they are very big and plump. The broth is very delicious, so please enjoy it with the broth. Finally, we have rice cooked in an earthenware pot. This is rice made from the highest-grade Koshihikari rice grown in the terraced rice fields of Karatsu. Each grain of rice is plump and stands up straight. In addition to the simple earthenware pot rice, where you can choose from three types of side dishes to go with your rice we also have rice cooked in an earthenware pot with beef, seasonal fish, salmon roe and Japanese parsley. assorted sashimi. Rice cooked in an earthenware pot. Wash the rice and put it into the earthenware pot. Add water. Time it and put it on the fire. Accompanying dishes for rice (spicy cod roe, clams in soy sauce, egg in soy sauce). Japanese omelette. Beef with rice. The collaboration between the egg yolk and the meat is amazing. There's also some minced meat in there. It's seriously delicious. Add beaten egg. Asakura Hoshuyama shiitake mushrooms 330 yen. Large toro mackerel, 748 yen. Miso and egg omelette with sea snail, 1408 yen. Preparing the eel sushi. Preparing the eel sushi. Spread the rice on top of the eel. Roll it up with the makisu. Preparing the steamer. Preparing the octopus. Remove the eyes and beak. Rub with salt to remove the slime. Repeat the salting process several times. Preparing the blue crabs. The head chef shows them how to prepare the blue crab. The chef opens the shell and removes the gills. Pour sake over it and wrap it in plastic wrap. Put it in a steamer. What makes you happiest? I'm happy when customers are eating it happily, but If it's not that, then it's when the part-time staff are doing their work happily that makes me happiest. Being able to do something for other people is the most satisfying thing for me. I don't think you have a position, because you said you don't want one. Like head chef or sous chef, I don't want to become too far removed from my part-time job if I get a position like head chef or sous-chef, so I'm fine with taking on responsibility, but I'm smiling and saying 'I don't want it'. I'm preparing to boil the octopus. Preparing the black pepper-grilled beef tail. Cooking the beef tail. It is slowly simmered for 5 to 6 hours. Preparing the octopus. After taking a few legs for sashimi, boil the rest. Hang the octopus to cool. Remove from the pot and chill in iced water. Prepare the blue crab. The steamed blue crabs are removed. The crabs are covered with wet paper to cool them down. Preparing the soup stock. Making kelp soup stock. Preparing the sea bream. Filleting the sea bream. Prepare a bowl of ice water. Chill the flesh in the ice water. Drain off the water. Apply sake to the sea bream to marinate it in kelp. Laying the sea bream on top of the kelp. Preparing the soup stock. Tasting the kelp broth. Removing the kelp from which the broth has been made. Add the bonito flakes. Skim off the scum, and filter the broth. What made you want to hold a knife? Although he wanted to follow in the footsteps of his father, who was a sushi chef, he was turned down, and so he joined the company he works for now, thinking "I'll just have to open my own restaurant". I was the senior when I joined the company. I call my father 'senpai', but he's better at the technology, so he is watching his back while pretending to be a senior. preparing curry bread. Preparing the popular one-shot curry bread. The manager mixes the spices together without using curry roux. The head chef and I often think up recipes together. Curry is my personal hobby though. It's a popular menu item. I want you to try it the most. The spiciness is kept low so that it's easy to eat. Add minced meat and fry some more. Let the curry sit for a day and use it the next day. The curry bread made the day before is sandwiched between slices of bread. The manager and head chef decide on the flavor of today's sashimi platter. What is the origin of the name of the restaurant? We wanted to give the image of freshly cooked or warm dishes, I wanted to give the impression of hot food, like the steam rising from a clay pot of rice or a steamer, so I used that as the name of the restaurant. Eel sushi. The one in the middle is abalone. We use fresh abalone from the fish tank. We put soy sauce and green onions on the octopus. Please eat the cutlass fish with the pickled plum and wasabi that are on the side. Grilled oysters. Beef with rice. Cut the grilled beef into thin slices. Top with minced beef, Japanese parsley and egg yolk. Prepare the dashi for the tea-flavored rice. This is beef with rice. Live large clams. Pour sake over the clams and grill them. Pour the broth over them. Add some green onions. Rice cooked in an earthenware pot with seasonal fish, salmon roe and Japanese parsley is cooked with dashi. Duck and apple salad. Deep-fried chicken. Japanese black beef short ribs and potatoes. Rice cooked in an earthenware pot. Rice cooked in an earthenware pot with seasonal fish, salmon roe and Japanese parsley. More salmon roe is poured on top. Pour sea urchin and tororo over the rice To finish off the beef, pour the dashi over it and make it into a chazuke. Grilled beef tail with black pepper. Prawn tempura. Prawn tempura with the shell on, 528 yen. Bread rolls filled with homemade curry bread are deep-fried. One-shot curry bread 528 yen. Three kinds of tsukune (chicken meatballs) 528 yen. I'm not ignoring the cost... I want to serve delicious food. If you wear boots, you're all the enemy. We have the best fish. It was so rich. It melted in my mouth. Watanabe-dori 5-chome, Chuo-ku, Fukuoka City. "Fish Kotora" The Nagahama Fresh Fish Market in Fukuoka City. 4:00 in the morning. I bought a rockfish at Fukuei Suisan. Instagram is famous under the name "Fish Mafia". Yellowfin tuna (young bluefin tuna). Red rockfish (redthroat seaperch). Kue. If you wear boots, everyone is an enemy. Let's not wear boots. We have to be serious. It's my job. I'll do it. We stay open until 3am and come to the market at 4am. The cost ratio is high. There are fish that don't have to be in season. There are good fish that are individual. I want to find and buy those. We have fish that you can't eat anywhere else. The market is like a treasure hunt. 2-3-11 Nakasu, Hakata-ku, Fukuoka City, Fukuoka Prefecture. 5-minute walk from Nakasu Kawabata Station on the Fukuoka City Subway. Hakata Kappo Kaji Honten A long-established kappo restaurant in Nakasu, Fukuoka, with a 50-year history of serving fugu dishes. We receive direct shipments of natural tiger puffer fish from the Haedomari Market in Shimonoseki all year round, you can enjoy genuine fugu dishes all year round. the fishmonger's truck arrives at the store. The live blowfish is taken to the fish tank in the shop. The blowfish is filleted. 2.3kg tiger puffer. Remove the beak. The fins are cut off, and the skin is peeled off. Remove the bones around the head, Remove the entrails. Separate the head from the body. Cut up the head. Carefully separate the parts that can be eaten from the parts that can't. Remove the gizzard. The fish is filleted into three pieces. The fillets are then passed on to other chefs for further processing. Preparing the soup stock. Making kelp stock. While the dashi is being made, the seasonings are being measured out. Starch syrup. The alcohol in the sake and mirin is evaporated. The kelp that has absorbed the dashi is removed. Put the bonito flakes into the pot. Sugar. Soy sauce. The starch syrup from earlier is also added while melting it with the heat. Fugu (pufferfish) milt. Cut the sinews and rinse in water. Strain the dashi. Transfer the rice to a rice cooker. Open at 11am, close at 10:30pm. Live fish sashimi. Stonefish. The spines on the dorsal fin are removed. Peel off the skin. Fillet. It is said that the taste of the stonefish is comparable to that of the globefish, and despite its grotesque appearance, the high-quality white flesh is beautiful and has a good texture. the remaining bones are removed and thinly sliced. fugu sashimi. Fugu sashimi. Thinly shaved and cut, and arrange on a plate. Add a pickled ginger and a slice of daikon. Roll the chives in the globefish and dip in ponzu. Grilled globefish milt. Fugu milt. Cut into bite-sized pieces. Pour boiling water over it to draw out the water. Line the roe up on the foil and sprinkle salt on them. make holes in them with a bamboo skewer and grill them. Remove the grilled milt and serve in a bowl. Live spear squid sashimi. Spear squid. Open the body and remove the globefish. Cut the flesh off, leaving the spine and both ears. Place the fish on a dish with ice. Cut lightly to avoid breaking the skin, and score the flesh. Cut into appropriate-sized pieces. The fillets are arranged on top of the fish. The chefs all pitch in to finish the dish. Saba sashimi. Saba. Stab the fish with a punching needle to stop the bleeding. Remove the gills. Wash away the blood, and fillet it. The remaining head and bones are shaped with bamboo skewers and placed on a plate. The fillets are peeled and prepared for sashimi. prepare it for sashimi. After the preparation is finished, it is passed on to the next chef. Thinly sliced and served. Fillets for sesame mackerel. Cut into slightly larger pieces and marinate in sesame sauce. Serve in a small bowl. Deep-fried blowfish. Blowfish hot pot. Squid shumai. Fugu sashimi. Tiger globefish. Globefish ovaries. Sashimi of globefish milt. Thinly slice the globefish milt. Lay them out in a dish one after another. Pour on the ponzu sauce. Squid tempura. The ears and legs of a spear squid. After dusting with flour, the batter is applied and fried. One after another, tempura for the banquet is put into the fryer. The tempura that has been fried is put on a plate. Squid tempura. Mackerel bone crackers. The bones and head of the mackerel. Breaking the spine into small pieces. The head is split in half, the inedible parts are removed, The hard parts are broken by hitting them, just like the spine. The batter is added and the fish is fried until no more bubbles appear. Put the rice into a bowl. Sprinkle on the chopped nori seaweed, and put the squid sashimi on top. pour soy sauce mixed with grated wasabi on top, and squid sashimi mixed with egg yolk and eaten. deep-fried blowfish. Fugu chiri. Asari miso soup. The miso that was prepared earlier. The clam broth and dashi are added. Put the warmed asari clams and miso soup into bowls. Fugu porridge. Put the rice into the pot. Mix in the egg. Add soy sauce and dashi stock to adjust the flavor. Pour in the beaten egg. Stir in the egg when it's cooked. Here you go. It's bluefin tuna, isn't it? To burn konoshiro (this castle) is to burn Edo Castle. That's also why it was so hated. The skin of konoshiro is beautiful, so is the skin of children and daughters. So, the Edo dialect came to call it kohada. I've been doing this job for a long time, like at memorial services and banquets. I've been doing this job for 50 years since my master's time, but I thought I wouldn't be able to do this kind of work on my own from now on, so I've made it a little more compact, Edomae-zushi. It is said to be particularly classical. I've always wanted to work in Edomae-zushi, so in order to make that dream a reality, we did a major renovation, we changed the concept of the shop, changed the interior... and so on, and it's been about a year now. I think we're just getting started, but we're getting customers to come through the door, so I have a feeling that we can keep going like this. Please try the conger eel with salt. 122 Kusanagi, Shimizu City, Shizuoka Prefecture. We protect the classic techniques of Edo-mae, such as the ability to judge the quality of fish, filleting, and preparation, they continue to protect their careful work and techniques. "Conger Eel Sushi" Shizuoka City Central Wholesale Market. The market is bustling with activity from early in the morning. Looking around the market for good ingredients. Clams. She judges which ones are good by tapping them. She finishes shopping and returns to the restaurant. Yumi Chiba is a sushi chef and skilled worker. Until she was 28, she worked for a general company, and at the age of 29, she returned to her parents' home and entered the world of cooking. In October 2017, she appeared on CNN's "Leading Women Japan", which featured five Japanese women appeared on LEADINGWOMANJAPAN (Leading Women in Japan). has also received offers to appear on other overseas programs, and is working to promote Japanese culture. Slicing the kampachi. Removing the head. Wash out the inside of the belly. Insert the knife along the backbone from the belly. Turn it halfway and cut along the backbone from the back. Cut along the backbone to separate the shoulder from the body. Remove the belly bone. Cut into the back and belly. Thinly scrape off the blood and sinew. Line up the meat on a bat and sprinkle salt on it. wash the rice. Cover the rice with a wet cloth to prevent it from drying out and cracking, and Leave it to drain for about half an hour. Put the water that has been chilled in the refrigerator into the rice-drying basket. It is said that when the rice is cooked, the stickiness decreases and the rice becomes beautiful. Lay the rice-cooking net and put the rice in. Cover and let it soak for 40 minutes. The owner, Mr. Katsutoshi Takeuchi. Preparing octopus in cherry blossom sauce. Octopus legs. Rub the octopus well with salt to remove the slime. Wash well under running water. The landlady, Hiromi Takeuchi. In addition to cleaning the restaurant and looking after the decorations, she also works in the kitchen, they also handle the back-of-house work in the kitchen, such as food preparation, egg-cooking, and making sushi rolls. alcohol. Water. Granulated sugar. Azuki beans. Azuki beans are colored and to prevent the skin from peeling off. Boil the octopus in another pot. When the color changes, put it in the pot for stewing. Add soy sauce and put a drop-lid on top. simmer, skimming off the scum. When the flesh is soft, remove from the heat and wait for the horse mackerel to soak in. Preparing the young Japanese amberjack. Remove the scales. Cut off the head and open the belly and take out the internal organs. The landlady and the master were against the renovation at first. I was worried that our regular customers would leave. But I was selfish and said that I want to do things like this in the future, so I got their agreement to make major changes to the menu, and we did it that way. cut off the tail. Wash out the inside of the fish. Remove the backbone. Remove the belly bones. Sprinkle salt on the colander and Line up the filleted young Japanese amberjack. Sprinkle with salt. Leave it for a while. Take the eggs out of the box. Preparing the omelette. Breaking the eggs into a bowl with seasoning. Mix well until it is even. Light the stove. Add more oil and spread it around the pan. Pour out the excess oil from the pan. Spread the oil all over with kitchen paper. Spread the eggs thinly in the pan. Peel the edges of the egg with a pair of long chopsticks. Roll it up. Preparing the kohada. Removing the salt. Wash the kohada in vinegar. Marinate the kohada in cold vinegar. Preparing the fish box. Preparing the tuna. Tuna from Oma. Removing the bones and blood. The fish is filleted. Kelp is added and brought to the boil. Remove the kelp when the broth has come out, and skim off the scum. Add the dried bonito flakes. Turn off the heat and let the mixture cool. Making boiled-down soy sauce. Mirin. Red wine. Heat it over a flame to evaporate the alcohol. Add soy sauce and heat it up on high. Strain the dashi. Squeeze the bonito flakes. Measure the dashi and add it to the pot of boiled-down soy sauce. Remove from the pot. Pour the sushi vinegar made with red vinegar over the rice. Mix the rice without crushing it. Fanning with a fan to give it a glossy finish. When the heat on the surface has gone, turn the rice over. The rice is fanned with the fan again to cool it down. The rice is transferred to a pot for storage. 11:00 Lunch service begins. Customers arrive immediately. Braised octopus in cherry blossoms. Sashimi of Pacific bluefin tuna. Grate the wasabi. Scrambled egg with dashi. A nigiri made with a redlip mullet. Mix chopped shiso and sesame seeds into the rice. Vinegar-pickled saury. Carefully remove the small bones. Line the pickled ginger on top of the mackerel. Make the rice into a stick shape and place it on top. Shape it with a rolling pin. Shape it firmly again. Lightly sear the surface. Brush on soy sauce. A nigiri made with bluefin tuna. Medium-fatty tuna. In the Nara period, tuna was called "shibi". The people of Edo wrote it as "shibi" when they replaced it with kanji, so they were extremely afraid of it, because there were no refrigerators in those days, the toro part goes bad quickly, so people in Edo didn't eat tuna. However, as for the lean meat... A sushi restaurant called Ebisuya in Bakurocho, Nihonbashi, they were pickled in soy sauce for the first time, and it became possible to preserve them for a little while. And so, red tuna became available to eat pickled in soy sauce. In the middle of the Edo period, people didn't eat tuna, but in the latter half of the Edo period, even the samurai started eating sushi. Toro was eaten by the owner of a famous sushi restaurant in Nihonbashi and a businessman from Mitsui Bussan, who said it was very delicious. because it didn't have a name at the time, and it melts in your mouth, so they said, "Let's call it toro," and that's how it got its name. The name "Toro" is still recent. We have been treated very well, and I'm enjoying it. When I say "please do it like this", they respond to your requests. It's fun doing things like that. Sushi chef Susumu Takeuchi. He is the younger brother of the master and the uncle of Mr. Chiba. He opened this fish restaurant with his master. He puts skewers in the fish so that the back doesn't bend when it's boiled. Rinse under running water. Put the shrimp, which have been rinsed under running water, into boiling water. They turn a beautiful red color after just a short boil. After boiling for 4 minutes, remove them from the water. Immediately cool in cold water. Clean the inside of the head shell of the boiled prawns and set aside. It is said that this prevents discoloration around the shell and also makes the fish look more beautiful when it is filleted. At first, he was 41 years old when he first served sushi to other people. even when making rolls, the things I had been making up until now like the dried gourd shavings are rolled into an oval shape instead of a square, or whether the core is in the middle, the cut surface is clean, the height is even, etc. I started to study the rules of the competition and the finer techniques, and my mindset changed from there. I don't really have any high hopes. You can't suddenly become good at something, so it's just a matter of building up day by day, I want to slowly get better, even if it's only a little at a time, like a tortoise. I'm going to chop off his head. He puts a knife into his stomach and removes his internal organs. Clean the inside of the belly using a bamboo whisk. Cut into three pieces. Cut into pieces and line up on a bat. Clam. Insert the knife between the shells and open them. Remove the meat from the shells. Washes off the dirt with water. Passes a bamboo skewer through the water pipe. While turning the bamboo skewer, rinse it under running water to remove the dirt inside the water pipe. The pot is lit and the clams are boiled in the water. The ingredients are said to be able to be boiled tenderly by gradually adding heat. Remove the cooked clams from the pot. Remove the liver by pressing lightly with your fingers. Strain the cooking liquid. Pour the cooking liquid into the pot. Sake. Granulated sugar. Soy sauce. Line the clam meat up in a bat. Soak in the sauce that has been cooled. The master, Katsutoshi Takeuchi, originally worked as a salaried employee, and because his family was in the bonito and tuna fishing business, he started a fish retail business with which he was very familiar. I was in the retail business for about three years. It's a tough time for fish retailers, because there are supermarkets nearby, it became a tough business. From there, I thought about a lot of things and entered the world of sushi. At first, don't think about it so hard. I thought that if you made rice and put sashimi on top of it, it would become sushi. It was just youthful naivety. That's where we started. At the time, take-out sushi and conveyor belt sushi were starting to become popular, so we had to differentiate ourselves from the competition, so I read a lot of literature and thought and thought and thought, I thought about what our specialty was, and I came up with "Edomae Sushi". By reading literature about the history and culture of (Edomae-zushi), he perfected the Edomae-zushi style of sushi that is served at Uotake Sushi today. A nigiri made with a prawn. Peel the shell off the prawn. Cut off the head and tail. Cut open from the belly. Grate the wasabi. Originally, this is a fish called "konoshiro". When a samurai committed seppuku, this "konoshiro" was grilled and served at the end. That's why it was called the fish of the belly-slit. And because they would grill konoshiro and serve it, So, the act of burning konoshiro (this castle) is connected to the burning of Edo Castle. Because of this, it was also hated. Konoshiro's leaves are beautiful, so they were used to make a dye that would make children's skin and girls' skin become as beautiful as konoshiro leaves. This is the Edo dialect. When it is grilled on the kononro during the Obon festival, the smell attracts the dead children, who return. (In the upper part of the screen) a child's generation, a substitute for a child. A hand-rolled sushi with a fillet of young yellowtail. Yam. Peel and grate. Peel the shell off the grass shrimp. Carefully remove the guts. Chop the fish into small pieces and put them in a blender. Then knead them in a mortar. Put the grass shrimp in the blender as well. Mix the grass shrimp, fish paste and yam. Separate the eggs into egg whites and yolks. Strain the yolks through a colander. Put the contents of the mixer into a mortar. Mix with the egg yolk. The term "kera" refers to the iron used in Japanese swords and other items that contains very few impurities. It is said that the name "kera" came about because it was used for the griddle on which the tamagoyaki was cooked at sushi restaurants. it is said that it came to be called tamagoyaki at sushi restaurants. so-called dashimaki tamago is called "kawashitama" at sushi restaurants. Originally, there were two types: kashidama and kera-yaki. Then there is the so-called dashi-maki-tamago from Kansai. In Edo-style sushi, this is called "kerayaki". Pour the batter into the keranabe. Even out the dough and remove the air. Place the frame and lid on top and bake for 10 minutes. Red clam. Open the shell by inserting a knife. Remove the meat. Separate the meat from the shell. Rub the salt in well to remove the dirt. This is a sushi restaurant that does the traditional Edo-style work, but the master is so old-fashioned that you'd think he lived in the Edo period, he often talks about the Edo period. The customers were really pleased with it, and while I was making sushi at the counter, the master tells us all sorts of interesting stories from the Edo period, so I think customers who are interested in the culture and history of the Edo period I think that customers who are interested in the culture and history of the Edo period will definitely enjoy themselves if they come to our shop. Separate the gills from the adductor muscle. Remove the liver and open the flesh. After rubbing it with plenty of salt, wash it in water to remove the slime. clean off any remaining cotton or dirt. Wipe off the moisture lightly and line up the batts so that they are easy to use. Insert a bamboo skewer into the edge of the pan and peel off the skin. Cover the pan again and cook over a low heat for 10 minutes. Then, cook in the oven for a further 10 minutes. The finished kera-yaki is removed from the oven. The kera-nabe pan used is a custom-made item that is around 6cm high. The custom-made kera pan on the left, and the regular pan for making tamagoyaki on the right. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't... No matter how many times you try, it's all about studying. Prepare the pot with hot water. Quickly dip the eel, which has been cleaned of its slime, into the hot water and transfer it to the pot for stewing. Cover with a drop-lid and skim off the scum. Once the conger eel has finished cooking, the bones are removed by hand once it has cooled. The bones are removed carefully so that the flesh does not break. In the old days, couples would make sushi in their tenement house. Women have always been hard workers. The shop won't last if the landlady isn't good at her job. She can do anything. I won't let them make nigiri sushi though. Edomae nigiri 10 pieces + makizushi 4400 yen. Cut into pieces with a knife. Soak in sauce. Lightly wipe off any excess sauce. Lightly soak the scallop strings in the sauce. Cut the cucumber into thin strips. Spread the rice on top of the nori sheet. Spread wasabi on top. Put cucumber and kai-himo on top. Roll with a rolling pin. Cut to the same height. Brush on the oil. How did they preserve fish in the Edo period? There would have been some ice in winter, but I think they would have had a very hard time at other times of the year. According to one theory, they would wrap fish in oil paper and sink it in the well water. Kelp-cured kuchimidai. The Bunka-Bunsei period (1804-1830) was a time when the 11th shogun, Tokugawa Ienari, was a lord who didn't do much in terms of politics, he let the chief councilor run the government while he himself had many concubines... Tokugawa Ienari freely allowed various cultures. Jippensha Ikku's "Tokaidochu Hizakurige", comic books, pictures of beautiful women, pictures of actors, etc... Sushi was also invented around that time. It was a very good time, and it has remained until today. It is not only the taste of Edo-mae sushi that is passed down from generation to generation, but also the tradition and culture of Edo-mae sushi, as well as knowledge and technique. it extends to the history and culture of the times. Kelp-cured sea bream. It was a lot of work, but thanks to the help of many people, thanks to everyone's help, we were able to get back on our feet. After closing for 50 days to renovate the interior, we redid the interior again. We gained more than that, so it was a positive thing. I really understood that it was thanks to everyone. In 2022, due to Typhoon No. 15, the Tomoe River and some of its tributaries overflowed. Uchiku was also hit by flooding. The water was manually drained out, and the interior of the shop, which had just been renovated, had to be redone. business resumed on January 10th. We have the support of our regular customers, our friends, and everyone, and we are truly grateful. Uotake Sushi is a place where you can enjoy delicious sushi and interesting stories about the history and culture of Edo. Today, too, we will fill our customers' stomachs and hearts... It's huge. 1F, 2-17-26 Yakuin, Chuo-ku, Fukuoka-shi, Fukuoka-ken 6 minutes on foot from Yakuin-odori Station on the Nanakuma Subway Line. 10 minutes on foot from Yakuin Station on the Nishitetsu Omuta Line. Robata Gon is a robata-yaki restaurant where you can enjoy delicious Japanese food. Nagahama Market. A 6.2kg anglerfish. Anglerfish filleting. Anglerfish. Removing the fins. Open the belly. Remove the internal organs. The skin is peeled off. The head is separated from the body. Open the head and remove the jaw. Is anglerfish served in miso soup? Dabushiru and deep-fried chicken. Cut the spine and flesh into chunks. Open the stomach. From opening to closing, the restaurant is almost full. Deep-fried anglerfish. Cutting up the anglerfish. Coat with batter and deep fry. Nagahama Market. Red-throated rockfish. It's the best one I've had recently. Throatfish filleting. It's pan-fried. Redlip mullet. Remove the gills. Open the belly and remove the internal organs. It is filleted into three pieces. It is very big. Remove the scales. Cut it into two pieces. One side is grilled with salt, the other side is simmered. Cut the red rockfish fillet and put it in the pot. Green onions. Shiitake mushrooms. Add sake and mirin and heat. Cover with a lid and simmer for a while. Put skewers through the grated fish. Sprinkle with salt. Grilling over charcoal. Preparing the soup stock. I'm also going to make dashi from the roots of the bok choy I got from Ma-chan Farm. It would be a waste to throw them away, so I'll make dashi from them. We'll also add the fish bones from the filleting. We'll wrap the bonito flakes in paper. Dried sardines from Era Fisheries in Amakusa City, Kumamoto Prefecture. The smoky aroma is also effective, so we'll add this too. Ma-chan Farm. Ma-chan Farm, Ogori City, Fukuoka Prefecture. Komatsuna grown in the rich humus of volcanic soil. Komatsuna made with care and attention. We'll also be receiving Chinese cabbage. Preparing the boiled greens. Add salt to the boiling water. Komatsuna (Japanese mustard spinach) picked in the morning from the farm. When the stems that were added first start to change, add the leaves. Add the enoki and shimeji mushrooms and cook them. Once they're cooked, put them in a colander and rinse them immediately with cold water. Where does the name of your restaurant come from? When I was working in Tokyo, it was a shop called "Gogo". It was a very popular shop, we used the name "Gogo" with the motto "Five" as it was. And because "Go" doesn't sound like a shop, I heard that adding an 'n' to the end of a word can bring good luck, so I decided to use 'gon'. Preparing the soup stock. The soup stock is carefully boiled while removing the scum. Strain through a colander. Add bonito to the kelp, and it's full of the umami of fish and vegetables. A 5.4kg flatfish. A 1.7kg bonito. Flounder filleting. Flounder. The head is removed and the entrails are pulled out. The fish is filleted. Remove the roe. Cut up the fish. Filleting bonito. Removing the head and pulling out the entrails. Scrape off the tough skin on the head side. Cut the fish into two pieces. Remove the bones and separate into pieces. Broiling bonito on straw. The skewers are put into the bonito. The bonito is grilled over the straw to give it flavor. This straw is delicious. The straw is delicious. I'm grating the white horseradish. The aroma is incredible. This is the homemade ponzu sauce I made today. Add the dashi to the beaten egg. Spread the egg thinly in the frying pan and roll it up. 4 rotations on Friday and Saturday, 3 rotations on weekdays. Because the boss (personality) is good. Nagahama Market. Yellowtail. While they're preparing it, we go to another shop. Mate shellfish. I have the yellowtail filleted. Loading the fish I bought onto the moped. Preparing the yellowtail. Preparing the dobujiru. Blanching the fish. Chill in ice water. Today's appetizer is a hotpot made with anglerfish that was filleted this morning. Flatfish liver. When we leave it to the chef, we serve it because regular customers love liver. Grilled yellowtail with salt. Assorted sashimi. A surprise yellowtail sashimi for the birthday guest. The other customers also join in, creating a warm and friendly atmosphere. Sauteed whelk. Dashi and whelk are put into the pot. Shiso leaves. Butter. Shake the pot while heating it until the shellfish opens. Garnish with myoga and daikon. Buying ingredients. Visiting the farm of Mr. Matsumoto, a senior rice farmer. Sunny lettuce. The foot of the Mino mountain range can be seen in the distance. There are good minerals here, so you can get delicious vegetables. The more astringent it is, the better, right? Yeah, it's good. Sunny. Fukuoka Prefecture's Genki Tsukushi. Roll the lettuce in the meat. Spread the thinly sliced pork belly on the chopping board. Roll up the lettuce and place it aside, and then roll up the pork belly. The morning-caught chickens have arrived. Preparing the pork skewers. The heart and liver are separated and cut into bite-sized pieces. The heart is cleaned of sinew and the remaining blood is removed. The skewers are made one by one by hand. The chicken wings are marinated in mirin, sake, soy sauce and ginger. Mix well to blend the flavors. Leave in a Tupperware container to allow the flavors to soak in. Grilled liver. Use a burner to brown the surface without cooking the inside too much. Pour sesame oil and green onions over the top. Deep-fried chicken. The chicken thigh meat, which has been seasoned, is coated with potato starch. The key to deep-fried chicken is to crush it. Then the meat juice is trapped inside. Let it cool down. Grilled rice balls. Grilled rice balls cooked over charcoal are also a popular menu item. The rice balls are grilled with a sauce. The rice balls are generously topped with salmon roe. Deep-fried chicken that has cooled down is deep-fried a second time. Grilled chicken thigh. Chicken thigh meat grilled in the morning. One piece is grilled over the charcoal. After removing it from the fire and allowing it to rest for a while, cut it up and serve on a plate. Deep-fried chicken wings. The skewers are put through the chicken wings that have been seasoned. The chicken wings are coated in potato starch and deep fried. I come here 2 or 3 times a month. I like the liver skewers (the most). Everything is delicious. The chef is a really nice guy and good-looking. Making ponzu. Wood vinegar harvested in the garden of my parents' house. Harvesting the wood vinegar. Harvesting the wood vinegar berries. We'll make our own ponzu sauce. It is also used to squeeze over fish. Wood vinegar. Making ponzu. Making homemade ponzu entirely by hand. The washed wood vinegar is cut in half. It is squeezed by hand one by one. Making ponzu. Mirin. Put this over the heat to evaporate the alcohol. Once the alcohol has evaporated, add the Rishiri kelp from Hokkaido and the bonito flakes. The juice of squeezed wood vinegar. Vinegar. Light soy sauce. Preparing the tsukune skewers. Mix minced chicken with shiso leaves to make tsukune. While shaping them, attach skewers. Tempura made with bud greens and butterbur sprouts. Bud greens picked in my parents' garden. Fuki no tou. Tempura with batter. Tempura made with butterbur sprouts. Tempura made with bud green. Deep-fried prawns. Satsuma butter. Frying Amakusa-san's sweet potatoes. Honey. Butter. I melt the butter by searing it over a burner. I come here 2 or 3 times a week. The charm is that it's very lively, because they do business in a way that everyone likes, I like that the most. The appeal is that no matter what you eat, it's delicious, and the atmosphere is homely. It's like "welcome back". It's always delicious. Everything is delicious, but the vegetables grown at home are especially delicious. The owner's parents grow this kind of vegetable without using any pesticides, and they serve seasonal vegetables at the restaurant. Fukinoto. Tempura is delicious. It's small, but it's a spicy daikon. It's a bud green. It's delicious when stir-fried, and it's also really delicious when made into tempura. Potherb mustard.