I think most of you heard about behavioral interviews. However not many know what exactly the behavioral A behavioral interview is a job interviewing specific questions, which describe their past Since yoUR past can be an indication of yoUR to determine whether you are a fit for the How about the Competency Based Behavioral It is the same interviewing technique but is directed towards evaluating A specific A competency (which is a set of behaviors, to perform the tasks successfully at the job. Which means such questions would require a "yes" or "no". If we haven't met before, I am Marat from and Career Services Agency, look me up on On this channel I train and coach you to ace as a professional and learn how to deal with yourself first. So which is the best way to answer both behavioural Whenever you come across a complicated job response technique, which we are about to It will always give concrete examples of your questions. Before I proceed further I would like to remind hitting the little bell so you won't miss content. And if you stick with me till the end of this job interview questions and answers, concrete technique. Answers which you could also use during your What is the STAR interview response technique? It's a method which breaks down your answer why you've got the required competencies The 4 stages breakdown of a STAR answer technique Situation Task Action Result. Situation - is the first part of your answer The tone and background to the example you Task - is where you discuss the task which were. So you can clearly state your goals, to be your response. Action - This part is where you should be in detail, which actions you took. It's important to mention what you did, The interviewer needs to have zero doubts actions by yourself. You could also mention how you decided to indications of your initiative and decision-making Result - Explain the results of your task. Whether the task was a success or a failure, action. You could also state what you learned along STAR technique is also widely used by recruiters questions. Such questions typically start with phrases: "Describe a situation when..." "Give me an example where..." "Describe a project or idea that..." "Tell me about a time when..." Etc... The STAR response method enables you to answer You might ask HOW, what makes it so powerful? It is powerful because it helps to turn your And people like hearing stories, facts are Stories don't get interrupted; they are A STAR story should be around 2 minutes long It's about sharing a real experience you It doesn't always have to be a work experience, skill or behaviour. Let's go through a few STAR questions and formulated using the STAR method, it will STAR Question 1: "Describe a situation when skills and what was the achieved result?" STAR Answer 1: that they waited more than two weeks for a request." * Task: "I needed to address the client's in the usual response procedure." * Action: "I apologised to the client, salesperson in charge of the product, who I investigated why the request hadn't been I discovered that it was a combination of provided, which was not being checked by the I followed up and informed the client about their next order." * Result: "The client is still ordering service review about us on Google." You see that the result shows exactly what Another question already formulated as a STAR you were in charge of a project within a deadline." STAR Answer 2: in charge of the transfer to a new customer which was added to my usual daily sales calls Task: "The goal was to achieve the migration the year, without letting any of my sales Action: "In order to do that, I had to be time. So, I blocked off an hour each day on my calendar During that time, I worked on transferring and updating the outdated information. Doing this gave me enough time to work on handling my normal tasks." Result: "As a result, the transfer was completed the year 10% ahead of my sales goal." Giving a response like this shows that you but you've also met and exceeded your sales management skills. How about a question which isn't formulated For example, Question 3: Have you ever lead This is a terrible closed question. You could answer "yes" or "no", or leadership skills, and using this chance to So let's formulate a STAR story answer: STAR Answer #3: place at my last company, where I was initially a new finance software for our main accounting (Task) "The project was critical as launch marketing on the product being already ready. However the project was way behind schedule, (Action) &quot;I always loved the challenge and So I volunteered to stand in, and by using small mistakes made in the initial coding, I negotiated with our Product Director a small for food delivery during evenings, so we did and catch up with the critical part of the (Result) &quot;Though this took us 1% over budget a better fault tolerance. The project was seen as a great success, the to the costs of delaying the product launch. The team was delighted with the extra bonus leader position as a result.&quot; Such answer not only shows leadership skills, skills among others, which turns such terrible your competencies and skills. You could practice your STAR ANSWER Technique interview questions video which appears on Here I share more examples of STAR Interview Example Question 4: Tell me about a time when Think of some examples of communication skills, For example, STAR Answer 4: "I was working company and we were running behind on timelines So, I arranged and led a conference call to It was a case of managing their expectations, in us over-delivering for the project. As a result, the client was much more understanding with our company." Emphasise your leading and communication skills. Example Question 5: Tell me about a time you STAR Answer 5: Last winter, I was working account executive for an important client The account executive had an accident and pitch. I volunteered to fill in and orchestrate the the creative and media teams. I called an emergency meeting and facilitated and the roles of various team members in relation I was able to achieve an agreement on two to pitch. I drew up a step-by-step plan of how we would by the team based on our discussions. The client loved our plan and adopted the I was promoted to account executive six months Example Question 6: Give an example of a situation STAR Answer 6: "I was working at the reception came in. He was frustrated that my manager had to miss I listened to his concerns, got him a seat happened with my manager. Away from the reception desk, I found out away on an urgent personal matter. By speaking to colleagues, I was able to source involved in the project to attend the meeting The client was relieved, and personally thanked for his heated words when he first arrived. The client is still one of our most frequent Example Question 7: Tell me about a mistake How did you handle it? STAR Answer 7: "I was working as an intern for ordering the floral arrangements for an Unfortunately, I mixed up the information to the wrong venue on the other side of the I admitted my mistake to my boss. Then I took an early lunch break, drove to delivered them to the appropriate venue about The client never knew about my mix-up, and Example Question 8: Tell me about a time when manager. How did you handle it? STAR Answer 8: &quot;I had worked hard on a presentation My manager told me that he was disappointed and that the customer had not been impressed I was surprised since felt I had prepared presentation with me again and explain exactly He pointed out outdated information and I financial information in my presentation. I researched the updated information and asked proposal for the customer. He agreed. Once I had sent the proposal I followed up We didn't get that particular contract but for other business which eventually work on&quot;. Hope these helped you learn to formulate your technique. Thanks for watching. Make sure you subscribe to Emmotion by Marat And the check out my next video: