Translator: Cihan Ekmekci Six years ago, I was sitting out when I got a notification on my phone, and I was surprised to find that I had I was surprised because my grandmother and she had never sent a text before. And I will tell you It read, &quot;Dear Andrew, I was like &quot;Aw, she thinks it's a letter!&quot; So I sent her a message back, &quot;Hey grandma, it's a text. Her response was &quot;Dear Andrew, Okay. Love, your grandma.&quot; My favorite part is it's always like if it was &quot;Love, grandma&quot; If it was like, &quot;Dear Andrew, I'd be like &quot;Grandma? Who's grandma?&quot; (Laughter) But my grandmother's still A couple of years ago, came back, sent a message to grandmother: ''Hey grandma, just got back Her response was, ''Dear Andrew, (Laughter) All right, so I called my grandmother up, ''Grandma, what do you think WTF means?'' And she's like, ''Oh well, someone at Bridge told me (Laughter) I was like, ''That is exactly I'm not going to explain that But over time, I've come to realize that I think the world if more people thought WTF - if more people were like my grandmother Because in 2012, I left my corporate job to teach people about the value of humor. I've worked with more than 35,000 people on how to be more productive, But when people hear what it is that I do, (Laughter) because no one thinks Is there anyone here Anyone that's like (Laughter) No. People think of humor Oh, if I enjoyed my work more, but if not, oh well. The reality is that humor is a must-have. In today's overworked, underappreciated, humor is a necessity. Because humor gets people to listen, it increases long-term memory retention, it improves understanding, and helps communicate messages. It also improves group cohesiveness, reduces status differentials, and brings people closer together. It does these things (Laughter) and this stuff and on and on and on ... And it's all backed by research (Laughter) And these are some Humor can help you to look better, (Laughter) Because people who use humor And anyone can learn these benefits. Because when I talk to people sometimes they're intimidated. That event that I went to that made my grandmother say WTF, it was to speak at a conference. And one of the other speakers His name is Kevin Richardson. He's also known as the lion whisperer. If you've ever seen that YouTube video He lives in South Africa, he raises lions from and they treat him as one of the pride. He's basically the human version But Kevin and I were talking He found out that I did stand-up comedy, and he was like ''Huh, I could (Laughter) I was like ''But you live with lions!'' (Laughter) As if telling a joke is somehow (Laughter) But so many people have this perception as if the ability to make people laugh (Laughter) But the reality is that humor is a skill, and if it's a skill, Because I am someone Because I've done over a thousand shows as a stand-up comedian, improviser, I've spoken and performed in all 50 states (Laughter) I have fans in more than 150 countries, based on people who have I've been called hilarious and smart, (Laughter) And I've been seen on The Daily Show (Laughter) I recently went to my and when people found out they said, ''But you're not funny.'' And in some ways they're right because I would tell you (Laughter) There's a lot that's funny none of it is intentional. (Laughter) And I have the blonde tips up top The theme was ''Into a Dream,'' (Laughter) in this picture. Because, growing up, I was never My senior year - my senior superlative, And this is going to surprise many of you, And if you're wondering the answer is yes; Dungeons &amp; Dragons, Star Wars, (Laughter) But most specifically, I'm an engineer. I went to the Ohio State University, got a degree in computer And after I graduated, I started working at Procter &amp; Gamble And that's what people expected me to do, because based on my that's what it suggests I should be But I've learned that we're not Because my assessment is I'm a Type-A, blue square, conscientious, That means I'm an ambitious, who likes long walks on the beach, but I've learned we're not They might give us insight or tell us what motivates us or tell us which Disney Princess (Laughter) but they don't define us; So I started doing comedy in college. My best friend there in the middle He needed people and forced me to join. And as you can probably tell At least to start out, We watched &quot;Whose Line Is It Anyway?&quot; And what I didn't have in comedy skill &quot;If we're going to do this for real; we'll practice three times a week, we'll have a business and we're going to go back and watch And over the course We went from performing to performing twice a week never really learning But that's how you learn It's through practice and repetition. And anyone can do these things. And you don't have to become but we can learn from the professionals. For example, from stand-up, we can learn because Louis C.K. has which is different than Ellen DeGeneres, which is different than Tig Notaro, Everyone has their own perspective. Some people tell me that I kind of look like the intersection (Laughter) Other people are like, &quot;Ah, I kind of see One woman told me, ''I think you look like Justin Timberlake (Laughter) And we're going to ignore the guy Right, just completely. Everyone has their own perspective. And we can use that perspective as a way We can use it to say, ''Oh, we're alike.'' People love desert. I love deserts. So it's the most efficient form of desert because of the deliciousness of ice cream But I don't understand mint chocolate. I don't know if we have I've never been eating chocolate and been like, ''You know what would (Laughter) We can share a perspective We can also share a perspective Because I will tell you that I have always understood computers Because when something goes wrong you get an error message. When something goes wrong with a human, you get feelings. (Laughter) Things would be so much easier wouldn't they? Say you're overworked, overwhelmed, it would just pop up: (Laughter) &quot;Please restart by taking a nap.&quot; Because we all know of, &quot;Just turn it off Some error messages Say, you're out flirting with a waitress, It would just pop up: &quot;Error. (Laughter) Things would be so much easier. But the reality is that humans no matter how adorable they are Because we, as humans, not only have Because it doesn't matter if we've never have the energy From improv, we can learn how we can Because the fundamental It's how improvisers at UCB, Second City off the top of their head. And we can use that same thing, take what they do, accept and build, ''If this is true, what else is true?'' Because it took me going that the rapper Flo Rida got his name and he put a space in it. That blew my mind! (Laughter) We could say, ''If this is true, We could say, &quot;I think there should be that goes by De La Ware.&quot; (Laughter) Or like, &quot;There could be a female who goes by Misses IP, PI.&quot; (Laughter) And if this is true, what else is true? If we can use ''Yes, and'' we can also use ''Yes, and'' as a way We can think of that stereotypical where people are like, You say, &quot;Yes, and if you were not how would you be out And we can turn an awkward conversation where you learn about the person. ''With beautiful weather, I go outside, If you're me, you stay inside, I like to use SPF building; We learn about people We can also use a yes-and mindset because the reality is that the average in their lifetime. Ninety thousand hours! That's the entire length, That is a lot of time. And we can say, ''Yes, I'm going and I might as well enjoy it.'' Between my junior I worked in a factory, and I will tell you And at the time, I thought want to become an international So, to pass the time, then I'd write them down And I recently found and discovered why I never became Because one of the rhymes was, &quot;Hydrogen plus hydrogen plus oxygen too, What do you get, yeah, it's teaming up (Laughter) It's the reason why I never became But it still helped me to pass the time And finally from sketch, we can learn about the importance Because the characters Key &amp; Peele, Monty Python, they're so enjoyable, because the actors And they're confident because it's like dating, right? People tell you that they want A couple years ago, and I saw this beautiful girl at the bar. ''You should go talk to her.'' ''I can't do that.'' ''Why not?'' ''I don't have 'game.''' ''You don't need 'game,' But they don't tell you that they want Because no woman wants a man (Laughter) That's what I've got. (Laughter) So I was like, ''All right. So I went up to the girl (Laughter) &quot;Are you a vertical asymptote? (Laughter) She was like, ''What did you just say?'' (Laughter) So I tried again, Are you opposite over hypotenuse? (Laughter) She was like, ''I think So I left, right? But then a few hours later, I was like, 'Hey girl, you're way (Laughter) Has that ever happened to you, where you thought of something That's actually a good thing, The idea of ''this moment happens here,'' and then you think of this idea That's a good sign, because that means And through practice and repetition, you can shorten the time from being four hours later to only two to ten minutes Because a reflection on the past And so we become more comfortable, the more that we actually do it. It's like Amy Cuddy says: I know there's a couple of people that are like, ''All right, (Laughter) ''What if I'm not funny?'' The truth is if you have ever even if it's because you tripped you would still use humor. But even if you're not ready you can still benefit from humor You can share quotations out, or you can use images Because I did not take this picture. I did not go to Sri Lanka. I do not know this shepherd I found it on Flickr and shared it with all of you, But even if you're not and you don't think that you can find you can still use humor Because when we see someone else smile, we are primed to mirror that behavior And when we smile, they smile: Other people are like, What if I try humor, Well, it's really only awkward if you dwell on it. And the reality is that no one has ever An inappropriate one, maybe, Because a bad joke is something like, &quot;I once had to miss class I was too cool for school.&quot; (Laughter) That's a bad joke. (Laughter) An inappropriate joke is one has an inappropriate target But as long as we are positive - (Laughter) and inclusive, we'll be okay. Because then if no one laughs at our joke, it's just now a positive Finally, people are like ''What if people think of me If you're going to use humor at work, recognize that humor Humor is like the salt of a meal. You wouldn't eat an entire Because that would make you a horse. Do you want to be a horse? I say nay. (Laughter) But you can still use humor as long as you're making it Managers actually want it, because they know you're going But let's say you work for an organization The reality is that no one No one can prevent you on your way home from work so that you relieve stress No one can stop you from creating No one can keep you from coming up The reality is that job satisfaction, is entirely your responsibility And this is a skill of humor. It starts by sharing your point of view, and then we explore And we yes-and both our work and our life, and finally we practice, because that's how we get better. And people can take an improv class, but we can also just be more aware And anyone can do these things. I'll tell you, the funniest person I know And she's elevated her game She's now on Facebook and she comments And I can't tell if my grandmother is the nicest, or if she is secretly trolling me. (Laughter) A couple of months ago, I posted, ''I'm trying to decide if I should so I made a list of pros and cons.'' My grandmother's response (Laughter) I was like, &quot;I don't know. Does she think it's funny, A couple weeks later, I posted, ''I think a cozy bar that serves figs My grandmother's response was, ''Ha, ha.'' (Laughter) And I was like, &quot;There's (Laughter) And I'm like, &quot;She's messing with me.&quot; Then a couple weeks ago, I posted, ''Converting the numbers 51, 6 and 500 (Laughter) My grandmother's response was, (Laughter) Trolled by my own grandmother. (Laughter) It doesn't matter, your age, your personality assessment, or your celebrity doppelganger. Anyone can learn to be funnier. And it all starts with a choice, a choice to try to find ways to use humor, a choice to be like my grandmother, to look at the world around you Wow, that's fun.&quot; Thank you. (Applause)