Super Mario Bros U, is one of my favorite Every couple of months I return to the game But I usually not only beat the game, but way, to make the playthrough more interesting. I've beaten the game deathless, I've beaten I've learned the speedrun and challenged window. Stuff like that, it just keeps the game challenging So for my latest playthrough I thought it of coins possible, while still beating the I gave this a try not knowing what I just So today several weeks later I'm finally In this video we will take a look at all the as little coins as possible, and we will finally to beat NSMBU is. So are you ready? Let's do this! Okay so what's the basic plan? If we want to actually theorycraft a route least amount of coins possible, but still everything the game gives us to work with. We will enter most of the levels with the air movement it provides to dodge coins. Mario Bros U features tons of secret exits, in world 1-2, which should make it possible If we are stuck with using the acorn suit small hitbox, as small mario to dodge coins, even smaller, and we have a joker in case The strange pink mini yoshi, that gives us dangerous coin dodgery. If we want to determine the minimum amount the game in the optimal way. Doing this is surprisingly difficult, because paths towards its last stage. The first thing we need to do is to do a normal to find out, which levels are really easy and should be avoided if possible. Then we need to find out, which secret exits can be skipped this way. So with this information we are able to plan problematic. All we need to do afterwards is to grind each picking up the least amount of coins possible. Once all of this is done we should know the to beat new super Mario Bros U. So let's first take a look at the route levels that are problematic for whatever reason The first routing problem already appears We can't take the secret exit here, because with dangerous but shiny coins. There is no way to get through this path without That's a huge setback early on, on our journey coins possible. The shortcut would have taken us directly and the entire second world. That's pretty bad, but at least the rest World 2 is where we run into our first unavoidable We'll take a look at this one in a second. We can leave world 2 via the secret exit that We can skip a significant part of the jungle the levels here are pretty straight forward. The only one that worries me is the seesaw are pretty nasty. World 6 features 3 stages that are definitely but world 6 also features the highest amount experimentation I found a route that avoids There is however one stage in this world that may force us to collect some anyway. We only need to do 4 stages in the seventh but three out of these four stages feature The last world luckily is a little bit easier, here. Okay so now we got a plan. We have seven coins that we are likely forced First let's clear all stages without collecting that we don't have to worry about them any We sadly can't go over each stage in detail hours long, but a lot of those levels are There is nothing in them that makes them super really precise play to dodge all coins. There is a link to the raw footage of me clearing Cool, seven coins left. Luckily, we can immediately remove one of The coin in seesaw bridge. Turns out I just saw a bunch of rotating platforms, I actually planned to bring a pink yoshi into some of the later platforming challenges completely our scientific cause, but as it turns out, it over those platforms coinless, as long So that's one coin off of our list hooray! Six to go. The next one to get rid off is the one in Land of the flying blocks sadly not only contains coins as well. We have to make our way through this stage But there are several coin layouts in this top of the cloud. The coins just fly towards us in patterns So figuring that one out took me forever but All we need to do is to load in the coins at all, or by racing faster than the cloud so that we are able to stay in a spot, where fast enough to take the platform. That's another coin off of our list. Five to go. Next stop Red Hot Elevator Ride. The problem here is the following. We have to ride this red and presumably hot as a bob omb, a goomba or a coin is on top So usually we'd pick up the coin and forget and very reasonable reasons, so as soon as screwed. But there is a trick possible in this stage If Mario is too far away from the platform, him. But if the elevator secretly moves upwards That allows us to remove coins on top of the makes it possible to beat this part, without The second part of the stage is luckily far more bob ombs drop onto the platform. Usually bob ombs are more dangerous than coins, So we can remove another worrisome coin off We are making really great progress so far. Let's take a look at the one coin that defnietly At the beginning of world 2 the path diverges The one is Perilous Pokey Cave, the other But both of these stages aren't really great Perilous Pokey Cave is really easy to do until But the very last room features this super Here we need to enter this pipe. And that's a huge problem, because all the run ending coins, and we can't simply fly distance between the coins, and the pipe. But the other option, Fire Snake cavern, is This stage starts with a pipe, and as soon us by surprise. There is literally no way to dodge this dumb I tried for over an hour, but it's impossible. No idea what nintendo was thinking when placing So we are basically soft locked at this point. In 2-2 we can't leave the level because can't even enter the level without being is no option either, since the secret exit a bunch of worthless coins. Sadly we're stuck here. The best solution, is it to just bite the coin, and to do the rest of the cavern coinless. So that's one we can't get rid off, three The first one is in Fuzzy Clifftops in World Fuzzy Clifftops is a nightmare, the stage tracks that are surprisingly difficult to that move around to make things even worse, yet deadly coins, and worst of all, tons of It took me a while to route the first part here who, uhm, uh, he, uhm, helps I guess. And then the stage confronts us with this An area that I'd like to call, the Fuzzying Holy Fuzzy, that part. So there are eight fuzzy's that fly in completely The area is too big to just fly over, there have coins above, but also below them, and it impossible to run over the platforms. There is simply too much going on too fast So I grinded that part for hours, and I actually sure how I did it. Mario landed on this platform, took damage, all these looser coins, without touching any I guess the Do Silly Things In Fun Games Gods of our list. The next coin we need to investigate lives This stage is problematic for our very important The first problem is at the end of the stage. The last coin layout in this castle, requires it, but directly before, is this area. Here we are supposed to jump over a fire bros to evade the fireball is filled with shiny challenging than usual, directly at the end That wouldn't be too bad if it wasn't *Sigh* So let's talk about ninja coins. Ninja coins are evil sneaky and scheming coins, it. They make us believe a path is safe only to able to dodge them anymore. They shoot out of the ceiling, they jump out thin air, they are horrible bad depraved coins, our run. But we can't let them win. The whole tower is inhabited with those objectively It's even possible to pick up coins through It's a nightmare. So what we need to do is to jump through the dodges all those assaulting coins, without That one took me forever, but I actually managed Hooray! I hope we never ever encounter a ninja coin So with that, there is only one last coin in Ludwigs Clockwork Castle. This stage has two troublesome areas, and course they do. The first one is here. The problem here is that we can't fly over taking the path below is really challenging, cause us to fall into this pit. Solving this, is luckily easier than first All that we have to do is to leave our helpful below those coins as small mario, which makes doable. The next part however. Let's call this area, the EatACoinOrIllCrushYa. If we want to make it through the EatACoinOrIllCrushYa We first need to jump here and let the crusher tight jumps over the coins, but we need to while also watching out for the stupid sledge And then we have to repeat the exact same So that may sound pretty challenging but not And I would agree with you, if it wasn't throws it's hammer at the same time we have I did this about 20 times, and hammer, over head. It was almost re-traumatizing. So I wasn't able to pull it off. The hammer is timed in a way that makes me it through this part as small Mario. To be honest, I took that one pretty personal. There is absolutely no way that I'd accept A magikoopa, maybe, but definitely no sledge So I tried tons of different things to make a solution. The Mini Mushroom! With the mini mushroom, marios hitbox is actually coins. This allows us to make it through this area in this hole, and are able to leave it, without Hoooray! We got the game down to a single coin. Isn't that fantastic, we proved that it's bros u with only collecting a single coin. Whoooo .. ooo .. o God that's frustrating. A single coin. One, Single, Coin. It's only one coin standing between us and be beaten coinless. That's so frustrating, we've come so far: of Yourrunendshere, we dodged countless tricky to stop us, neither was the red hot elevator, of beating the game coinless, we even escaped run ends because of this incredible dumb undodgeable That's so stupid. So I decided to look into our world 2 coin Trying to find a way through this tunnel coinless, and I decided not to try to search for a way coin any longer, because the situation between want things to escalate. So I decided to search for a way to enter I tried it as mini mario, I tried jumping flying in while using the weird pink yoshi, anything that might help us here. But none of these ideas worked out. But then, then I remembered something, something In this stage speedrunners, enter this pipe Once Mario enters the pipe, the game moves be, in this case it even moves him through So as it turns out, pipes can be entered by of them. I tried to find a setup that allows us to and a perfect route, and after a lot of trying If we spin jump as acorn mario, wall jump the pipe, and activate our upwards boost the we are able to enter it, without collecting That's it! Ladies and Gentlemen we just proved that new It's actually doable! Mario is able to rescue his beloved princess Hooray! For anyone who wants to give this route a me beating each level without collecting a So I hope you enjoyed this little video, if up and maybe you feel especially like it has today, and want to hit the subscribe button I hope that all of you have a wonderful day, Goodbye!