Push harder A little more It's not working The mother is carrying triplets Difficult labor, we must perform a C-section immediately. Absolutely not. C-section is not good for the fetus. Let her give birth naturally. But this is too dangerous for the mother. Administer the epidural to the mother immediately. We can't. Epidural anesthesia will result in mentally challenged children. The heir of the Li family must be healthy. Aheng Save our child. The mother is hemorrhaging. Save the mother or the baby? Of course, protect the child. It would be better if this woman were dead. Saves me the trouble of kicking her out later. She, a commoner, doesn't deserve to enter the Li family's door. Mom, what's going on? Xiao Ya, you're finally back. The master said as long as that woman gives birth to the child. Jing Xiu will wake up soon. You just returned from abroad. Once Jing Xiu wakes up, You'll become part of our family. A legitimate young mistress now Ahen, save our child Hold on Help me Mrs. Li has been dead for six years. Please accept my condolences. Mom Where is the woman who took care of me while I was in a coma? Xiao Ya has been taking care of you during your two-year coma. And she even gave birth to a son for you. Jing Xiu, you're going to be a father. Xiaoya has given so much for you, you must... Give her a proper status. I, Li Jingxiu, will only have you as my wife in this life. Don't worry, I've found a divine doctor. Zi Mo's illness will definitely be cured. Mr. Li The miracle doctor is about to arrive at the airport. Mommy's coming back this time But I secretly brought you both back behind grandmaster's back. So we need to keep a low profile, got it? I understand. Who can blame us? Mom's a miracle doctor. Mom says we're so charming that everyone and everything loves us. It's easy to get caught by traffickers. That's really smart. Let me take a picture of you. Look at the camera. My name is Luo Yuling. I'm the younger sister. My name is Luo Yuchuan. I'm the older brother. Just like that. Dressed in all black. And wearing sunglasses. Must be a human trafficker. But he's so handsome. He'd make a great dad for me. Why do I feel This man looks somewhat familiar. Don't talk nonsense, you two. Your father is long gone, and your mother has no plans to remarry. Xiaoling Alright. Sister Liu is here. You two go home with Sister Liu first, Mommy has to go to the hospital. Sister Liu, the two kids are in your care. Xiaoling, don't worry. Let's go. Mommy's new job is going well. This time I'm returning to work at Borin Hospital. I must find my precious child. The miracle doctor treating Zimo's fever. Not yet This is the flight, Mr. Li You've been vegetarian and pious for so many years The young master was born with an illness. Finally, there's hope for a cure. Jing Xiu, it's my own frailty that's to blame. It's why Zimo inherited this incurable fever from the womb. Mr. Li, the dean's message. The miracle doctor has arrived at the hospital. Head to Boren Hospital. Xiao Luo, you'll have an important patient soon. He's a major shareholder of our hospital. We can't take his illness lightly; we must take good care of him. Understood. I heard that the miracle doctor is quite young, Mr. Li. Do you want to cover for the young master? Let's test the waters. This woman looks somewhat familiar. Dr. Luo, have we met somewhere before? The Chu family went bankrupt years ago, and I've changed my name. No one should recognize me now. Mr. Li, I think you've got the wrong person. If Mr. Li is ready, please take off your shirt. Come over here to the bed. This mole of yours. That's enough. You're indeed trying to get into my bed, woman. Ji Shu sees off the guests Doctor Our CEO Li only has his wife in his heart I advise you not to waste your time Are you crazy? Dean Qin What's going on? I've been waiting for over an hour. Where's the new expert? Hold on a moment, this one here. What kind of doctor Dares to recruit into the hospital, I think you, the dean, should retire. This Luo Qing On the first day, I've offended the hospital's biggest sponsor. What a troublemaker you are. Mr. Li But what's wrong with the doctor? Just a woman pretending to be divine. Search again. Make sure to find the real divine doctor. Yes. Where's Zimo? Young master, young master Save one dose for me. Run slower Are you okay, little one? Are you alright, kiddo? Luo Daba Why did you come to where mom works? Mommy, you're my mommy. Where are you, young master? Stop hiding, young master, young master. Mommy, I'm wrong. Please take me out of the hospital quickly. Why is this guy so apologetic today? This is the last time, got it? Mr. Li, it's bad, the young master is missing. Mom said Dad is from Nancheng. I must find Dad when I come to Nancheng this time. This handsome man looks so much like me. Li Zimo You're getting more and more outrageous. Dressed like that, are you planning to run away? Uncle Li Zimo, are you calling for me? Young master. You mustn't run around everywhere anymore. Understand? Otherwise, your father will worry. Daddy, you're my daddy. I've finally found my daddy. It's like a palace! I can't believe my dad is so wealthy. Zimo Your sixth birthday party is in two days. Don't run around everywhere during this time, okay? Sixth birthday party It seems that Zimo is the same age as me But Daddy How could you mistake me for him? This Zimo looks exactly like me! Could it be that we're twins? What about Dad and Mom? Zimo, where have you gone? Mom's been so worried! You're not my mommy, you're a bad woman. Of course I am your mommy, aren't I? You're the baby I carried for ten months. The time until Zimo's attack is getting closer. This birthday party is to bring Zi Mo good luck. It's very important. Keep an eye on him these days. It's so sad that Zimo is sick. Zimo, come here and take your medicine. Who are you calling a bad woman? You little wretch. I said take your medicine, do it now. Make him think I'm not your real mom Get your head checked Feed me Open your mouth. Take your medicine. I will drive this wretched child out of the Li family. This woman haunts even in death. One day, sooner or later, I will drive this little brat out of the Li family. Zimo, I'm sorry, Dad from now on, I won't let that woman bother you again. Zimo has a mother like that, No wonder he ran away from home. I wonder how Zimo is doing now. Mom's place is so small. I'll get her a bigger house later. I want to give Mom a bigger house. This Big White guy looks exactly like me. He also has a really cute sister. Big White Mommy found out you snuck out today. Did she beat you up? Mommy's great, she's very gentle. Of course. If only I had a daddy. Where's daddy? Daddy died before mommy was pregnant with me. You didn't know that? Why are you acting so strange today, Baymax? I I just forgot. Baymax's father passed away. Hey, Baymax, what's wrong with you? It must be my fever flaring up. Brother is a bit tired today, can I play with you tomorrow instead? Alright, brother. Get some rest early. I'm Baymax, who are you? I'm Zimo. Are you impersonating me? Living with Mom and Dad. We look exactly the same, we must be twins. Let's do a paternity test. Not now. Bai, I'm sick. Dad said he'd find me a miracle doctor. We need to switch back quickly. Is the divine doctor as skilled as my mom? I don't know. But Dad said she can definitely cure my illness. How about having your birthday dinner tomorrow night? I'll attend in your place, as long as we can avoid Dad and Mom. Then we can switch back. Who are you? What gives you the right to sit in my spot? This is our Princess Xinxin's favorite center position. Get up right now. Ugly creature. Are you deaf? I'm not an ugly monster. You ugly monster, daring to push me! Do you have any idea how expensive this dress I'm wearing is? Couldn't pay it back even if I sold you. What's going on? This is a new student from somewhere, teacher. He took Xinxin's seat. Still hitting people Luo Xiaobai Do you understand the rules? Bullying classmates on your first day She called me ugly first. Xinxin is the principal's goddaughter. How could she possibly insult someone? It's you who... You're causing trouble as soon as you arrive. Making excuses for your mistakes. Clearly, you have no upbringing. You're punished to clean the toilets for a week. Why not? When I came, this seat was clearly empty. Nothing was placed here. Why can't I sit here? Just because Zhang Xinxin's parents donated 5 million to our institution, She can sit wherever she wants. What can your parents do? If I'm not mistaken, your mom dropped you off at school today. Still riding your little scooter, huh? You poor guy, dare to take Xinxin's seat? Mr. Li The young master's birthday party starts at noon. You have two hours left. Discuss the acquisition with the dean. Isn't this Dr. Luo's daughter? Isn't this the man from the airport who'd make a great daddy? What's going on with Teacher Zhao? The director, on Little White's first day, he beat up a classmate. He hit someone in public. And he still won't accept discipline. She must be reprimanded and punished to clean the toilets for a week. I didn't do it, they're framing me. Alright. Other students go to the reading room to read first. Luo Xiaobai and Zhang Xinxin stay behind. Luo Xiaobai hit Zhang Xinxin. Zhang Xinxin's dad just donated 500 square meters to our organization. If he finds out about this, we're in trouble. Luo Xiaobai, you go to school on a little scooter. And you're dressed like a beggar, a poor little devil. It's your fortune to study at our International Center. If you don't want to be expelled, contact your parents right away. Have your mother apologize to Zhang Xinxin. No. I want her mother to kneel and apologize to me. Your organization This is how we usually handle conflicts among students. Forcing someone to kneel. This is a matter for our International Training Center. You're an outsider, none of your business. Teacher Zhao contacted her parents. She asked her mother to come and kneel to apologize to Zhang Xinxin. I've checked her information. Luo Xiaobai is from a single-parent family. Indeed, a fatherless brat like this is just uneducated. I'm not a fatherless brat! Enough. Who said he doesn't have a father? You're the father of this little bastard. Who bullied my daughter? Mom, this ugly creature. Pushing me for no reason. She must be punished properly. Alright, sweetheart, go read in the reading room. Mrs. Zhang, I've already punished her to clean the toilets for a week. Is a week of cleaning toilets enough? This little bastard Must kneel and apologize to my daughter Otherwise Fire her right now Who do you want to fire? Who the hell are you to meddle in my business? Don't you want to live? He is my father. Oh. So you're the father of this bastard, huh? If you don't want to get fired, get on your knees. Apologize to my daughter. Otherwise, My husband could kill you all with ease. It's as easy as pie. He's a high-ranking executive at Li Group, highly valued by Mr. Li. I also work at Li Group. I'm not sure who your husband is. You're dressed quite well, though. If the kid's poor, then his dad's even poorer. You think you can compare to my husband? He earns more in a year than you can imagine. I earn more in a year than you do in a lifetime, tightening screws. You and this little bastard should kneel down and apologize to my daughter right now. Apologize immediately. You villains. My father would never kneel to you. I want to see just how capable your husband is. What makes him think I'd kneel for him? Who dares to mess with my wife and daughter, risking their lives? It's him. You? Honey, are you okay? How dare you hit my husband? Honey, you need to fire him right away. Fire him. You work for the Li Corporation. Just a lowly screw turner at Li's company. A simple gesture from you can send him away. You stinky screw-turner. Get on your knees and knock your head three times. Call me 'daddy' one more time. I'll fire you right now. Hurry up and kneel to apologize to my husband. You, the parent, should kneel quickly. A true man can bend and stretch. Do you really want your kid to miss out on education? My mommy said so. A man's knees are worth their weight in gold. My daddy would never kneel and kowtow to you. Your mom taught you well. You're right. Daddy doesn't kneel. There's someone else who should be kneeling. Ladies and gentlemen present, Who else is more suited to kneel than you? Of course, it's you. How dare you hit my husband! You have a death wish? You screw-turning nobody, dare to hit me? I'll fire you over the phone right now. You have three more minutes to make my daughter forgive you. Otherwise, today will be your last day. What are you two standing there for? My husband got beaten up! Hurry up and call security! Yes, Mrs. Zhang. He's just a lowly screw-turner. Just a bit of strength, that's all. Stolen clothes can't hide your shabbiness. This child also looks pale and undernourished. Her mother must not have fed her any good food. You're talking nonsense. My mommy didn't do anything. My mommy is very good to me. My mommy is a doctor and she's usually very busy. But she's never treated me poorly. I love my mom very much. Mr. Li. Zhang Tianba is using the name of Li Group. Running scams everywhere Bullying and dominating Fire immediately Did you hear that, wife? He's going to fire me. Who do you think you are, President Li? Indeed, one's status is self-assigned when away from home. Still, President Li. This is hilarious. Daddy, are you really Mr. Li? Look, this is Mr. Gao from Li Group. This is someone you could never reach in a lifetime. Just one word from him I'll make sure you can't even survive in Nancheng Mr. Gao, I was just about to call you And here you are What can I do for you? You're fired. What about Manager Gao? You're fired. What's up, Mr. Gao? Mr. Gao, Mr. Gao, Mr. Gao. I got fired. Mr. Li. Hmm My husband, Mr. Gao Mr. Li Oh no, Dad, you can't fire me! My whole family, young and old, relies on this job. Honey, why are you kneeling to him? You call him Boss Li. He's just a stinky wrench. Stop talking. Are you trying to get me killed, you nasty woman? I've disciplined this woman for you. Zhang Tianba Now we have to compensate the young lady five hundred million for emotional distress. Otherwise, I'll make your whole family go and beg for food like dogs. Five hundred million, honey. You'd never earn this much money in ten lifetimes of working. Boss Li, we were wrong. Mr. Li, just let us go like a fart, please. Let it go. Daddy, they say my mommy is a poor person and they look down on the poor. They also always say you're just a screw tightener. Why don't we let them go to the factory and tighten screws? Is that okay? I'll leave it all to you. Didn't you hear the lady? Get out now! Thank you, Mr. Li. Don't worry, Mr. Zhang, we've brought reinforcements. You This is Mr. Li from Li Group You all should take care The director, he must be a fraud Mrs. Zhang and her entire family were fooled by him. We mustn't be deceived by him. How about we call the police? Principal You mean the principal said What He's the formidable Mr. Li who's here to acquire Director Their whole family are liars. What kind of frauds? He is the legitimate CEO of the Li Corporation. The principal has already called to confirm, please stop talking. How could he? Director, I was wrong. I shouldn't have underestimated people. Please let me off the hook this time. What good is it to beg me? You should ask Mr. Li. Mr. Li, I was wrong. Please spare me this time. Yes, Mr. Li. We will definitely Deal with Teacher Zhao seriously. I don't want to see her at school anymore. And you too. Get out. Daddy's so domineering. I don't know why, but I feel a strange connection with this little girl. I didn't expect that Luo Qing to have such a cute daughter. If only you were really my daddy. If you're willing, consider me as your dad. Mr. Li, don't say you two look exactly alike. Maybe she really is your daughter. You're getting more and more out of line with your words lately. Oh no, Mr. Li, the young master fainted at the birthday party. What are you saying? What happened to Zimo? Zi Mo Has the divine doctor arrived? Zi Mo Zi Mo, are you alright? You go first, or we'll be caught by Mom and Dad. That would be terrible. Mm. I wonder if the doctor Dad hired for Zimo has arrived yet. How come mom is here? Get lost, you stinky beggar! Today is our Young Master Li's birthday party. Don't taint the festive mood. You cur! Who are you calling a cur? I'm calling you a cur, you lowly dog who looks down on people! That dead woman has quite the mouth on her. Today, you'll see the true power of your grandpa. Today, you'll witness the prowess of your grandfather. So it's the divine doctor. Divine doctor, please save our young master. Please come in quickly. Young Master Li's illness is a fever he was born with. It's hard to cure. Only the penetrating coolness can help. This method can cure completely. But this acupuncture technique has long been lost. This lunatic actually has a kid. The &quot;Penetrating Coolness&quot; is a unique skill of our master. Only pass it on to me. No wonder he came to me for help. Young Master Li's illness, I can help, but I have a condition. Who gave you permission to come in? Get out! This is not a hospital. Aren't you Dr. Luo, who was all over Boss Li? Long time no see. Just came to Boss Li's territory to cause trouble. What a despicable person. A person like this also dares to claim to be a doctor and says he can cure Young Master Li's illness. That's just hilarious. Dr. Qin's medical skills are exceptional. Known abroad as the &quot;Right Hand of God.&quot; After returning to the country, he became the director of Boren Hospital in less than three years. It seems Dr. Qin has a high level of medical expertise. Then the illness of young Master Li should be no problem for you, right? Who can cure my son's illness? In the future, they will be an honored guest in the Li family. A distinguished guest of the Li family This is a great opportunity for advancement I'll do it Daddy Dr. Qin truly lives up to the name &quot;God's Right Hand.&quot; It's like Hua Tuo has come back to life! It's great that our country has a brilliant doctor like Dr. Qin. It's indeed a great fortune. Young master, something's not right. Waste It's not me, Mr. Li Boss Li, it's this woman who's been scheming secretly. Mr. Li, in front of everyone How could I rig things? Mr. Li, Mr. Li, I'm sorry, forgive me. Take him away. Chop off his right hand. Feed the dog. Mr. Li, please spare me, Mr. Li. Where's the doctor? Bring her here immediately. What are you doing? If you want your son to be okay, do as I say. If you dare to deceive me, Your fate will be worse than Qin Yang's. Mr. Li If I cure the young master Li, I demand from President Li. Apologize to me in public. Mr. Li is so concerned about his image, I don't believe he would agree. Zimo Alright, I promise. This child looks somewhat familiar. My son turns bright red when he has a seizure. He shouldn't be seen by others. Why did it suddenly get cold? I've heard Once the Piercing Cold Technique takes effect, it releases an intense chill. Could she really be the divine doctor? The young master is really alright now. You truly are a divine physician. The answer is quite clear. Shouldn't Mr. Li honor his promise now? I was blind before, my apologies. I hope Dr. Luo can let bygones be bygones and be my son's private doctor. From now on, Dr. Luo will be an honored guest in our Li family. Impressive, impressive. This kid looks to be about the same age as Dabai and Xiaobai. Forget it, his father's a jerk. But the child is innocent. Alright, I promise you. Last time I just used stitches to temporarily control it. Your son's condition. If you want to cure the fever completely, you need acupuncture. Seventy-fourty-nine days. I'll give you two more months. During this time, I can fulfill any of your requests. There's just one thing. What are you doing? Do your job. Don't have thoughts you shouldn't. Mr. Li is overthinking. I wouldn't even bother looking at a narcissistic man like Mr. Li. You better. Take her to meet the young master. This man usually has a deadpan expression. Didn't expect such a warm side. This is when our young master just woke up. I'm so happy to find out I'm a dad. Just woke up. Our young master was in a car accident eight years ago and was in a coma for two whole years. He woke up six years ago. He was in a daze for two years. Mommy Mommy Young master Why are you wearing this in broad daylight? My son turns red all over when he has a seizure. Not fit to be seen It's okay I'm not your mommy My name is Dr. Luoqing, your attending physician Dr. Luo, can you play with me? What would you like to play? It's been a while since I've seen the young master so happy. How's the matter you were investigating? Here's the information you asked me to look up on Miss Luo. The data shows she's married. She has a daughter and a son. But I haven't been able to find any information on her son yet. I have another son. Luo Qing, you really are a master of disguise. Keep investigating for me. This little brat. You're usually aloof and unapproachable. But you're quite friendly with her. Is it because of her that Jingxiu won't be with me? Absolutely not. We can't let her succeed. Zimo It's Dr. Luo. She's the one who pushed the young master. Don't touch my son. Li Jingxiu, listen to me, I didn't push your son. Li Jingxiu The nanny saw it was you who pushed him. Still trying to argue. I Dare to frame my child. Dare to hit me. You're condemning me based on Zhang Ma's word alone. There's security cameras by the pool. I want to see who's framing me. Aunt Zhang raised Zimo from a young age. That can't be her. You're fired. Get out of here right now. Don't you dare bully my mommy. Don't you dare bully my mommy. You little rascal, I'm your mother! Mom and Dad didn't push me. Don't you dare wrong her. It's Aunt Zhang. Not my young master. I've watched the young master grow up since I was a kid. How could I do such a thing? Jing Xiu must have been instigated by this woman. It's you. Mr. Li. The monitor shows Before the young master fell into the water Dr. Luo is not with him. Take away. Ah, madam, save me! Jing Xiu Get out! I was just too worried about Zimo, that's why I acted this way. It's clear she didn't take good care of Zimo. She's the one who should leave. Why me? I am Mrs. Li! Why am I being taken away? I'm sorry. It's okay, Mr. Li has always been blind and deaf to everything. Dr. Liu Back then, everyone thought I was dead. If it weren't for your kindness in performing the C-section for me Neither my two kids nor I can survive. Today, I just want to know where Aunt Snow took my first child to. I'm just a doctor, how would I know so much? You've got the wrong person. Here's a million dollars. Take it. Just be a quiet dead man. If word gets out, you'll be the dead one. I'm warning you. That's not someone you can afford to offend. Big shot Give up while you can Liu Qiong is so wary of Aunt Xue It seems that as long as we figure out Aunt Snow's identity Will lead us to Da Bao But Aunt Snow's background Is so well hidden Even the name is an alias. Little wretch. I don't care what means you used to get into Jing Xiu's bed. But Mrs. Li... I will never let you into the Li family. That's what I'm worried about. No need for Miss Qiao to worry. Since you carry it with you. The portrait of the matriarch, Lady Li. You indeed deliberately got close to Jing Xiu. Want to compete with me for Mrs. Li's position? I will make sure you die without a proper burial. Mr. Li Dr. Luo is in the archives at Borin Hospital. Looking up the information of the young master's birth mother Prepare the car to go to Boren Hospital Yes. Doctor Luo, something's wrong, there's an emergency. What's the situation? It's the patient's family. The fetal heartbeat has stopped. perform an induced labor, but her husband refuses. The pregnant woman is in critical condition; rush her to the operating room. Prepare for resuscitation. Even if you push her into the operating room, You won't be able to operate without my consent. You beast. Please, help me. Save my child Aheng Save our child Surgery now Surgery immediately. But the family of the pregnant woman hasn't signed. This doesn't comply with the regulations. When you're dying, who cares about the rules? I'll take responsibility, perform the surgery immediately. Finally, the stillborn has been removed. Listen up in there, get my wife out now! Without my consent. Don't think about performing an abortion on my wife. Your hospital is trying to kill my son. Son My son is gone. You killed my son. Performing it on a pregnant woman without family consent. Induced labor without the consent of the family This is a sin! A 6-month-old baby's life is still alive! Murderer I didn't kill your son I just saved your wife You killed my son I want you to pay with your lives. Go to hell. Luo Qing Dr. Luo's abdomen is fine. But the right palm is severely cut. Nerve damage. Even if she recovers, there might be lasting effects. Jing Xiu, why are you still watching over her? You've been deceived by her. This woman carries a portrait of your mother with her, obviously well-prepared. She deliberately got close to you and Zimo. To take the seat of Mrs. Li. A portrait alone can't prove anything. Alright. Luo Qing needs to rest now. You should go back first. Just a hand injury. You're really lucky to be alive. Here comes Mr. Li's young master. Mommy. Doctor Luo, what's wrong with you? Please wake up. Zi Mo, don't worry. Where is Doctor Luo? It's not a fatal injury, just a bad shock. I believe she'll wake up soon. Since mom is fine, I have to hurry and leave. Otherwise, it's easy to get caught. Daddy Then keep an eye on Dr. Luo. I'll come back to see him when she wakes up. Hmm Zimo Didn't you just see Dr. Luo? Why are you here again? Looks like Baymax has already been here. Hasn't contacted me yet. Must be that Mom's fine. I can't stop worrying. Zimo, it's getting late. You should head back and rest early. How about this, Dr. Luo is awake. Daddy will let you know right away, okay? Okay. Mommy, you have to get better soon. Mr. Li The person has been apprehended Let's go I was wrong I was wrong. Boss Li's tendons in his hands and feet are all severed. Take him to the police station. Boss Li You've been watching over Miss Luo all night. Go back and rest first. Let me know the moment she wakes up. What a pity. So beautiful Such a beautiful pair of hands Can never hold a scalpel again You did it If you dare to get close to Jing Xiu again, it won't be as simple as just a hand. You wicked woman, don't touch me. What did you do to her? I didn't do anything. She accidentally knocked over the cup herself. Get out. Take good care of yourself. Luo Qing, don't worry, the surgery went smoothly. Just cooperate with the follow-up rehabilitation training. Your hand will surely recover. Luo Qing Once Young Master Li recovers, Mr. Li, please don't come looking for me again. I'll stay far away from you too. What's wrong with you, Luo Qing? What's wrong with me? Shouldn't Mr. Li know best? Mr. Li, don't forget you still have a wife. Did Joya What did she tell you? She's not my wife. And I want to ask you something else. Mr. Li, there's no need to tell me this. If there's nothing else, Mr. Li, you can leave. I need to rest. Luo Qing Have I spoiled you too much? You're the first woman who dares to show me her temper. Dr. Luo Actually, Mr. Li is really good to you. He's been taking care of you the whole time you were unconscious. Really? Mr. Li Public opinion online is against Dr. Luo. Mr. Li On the internet Mr. Li This is a case of protesting verbally but accepting physically. Even if you don't die, Luo Qing, I'll make sure you're utterly disgraced. Jing Xiu, you're here. You should have told me you were visiting the set. Are you surprising me? Post an apology to Luo Qing on Weibo right away. Why should I apologize to her? She's the one without medical ethics. I'm speaking up for the victim. Why should I apologize to her? I'll give you another half hour. If I don't see it, an apology on Weibo. You should just quit the entertainment industry. What do you mean, &quot;I should just&quot;? Everyone's bullying me. It's driving me crazy. Xiao Luo This matter has escalated too much Although in public opinion Li is covering for you But it's really bad for our hospital's reputation. Why don't you take a break from the hospital for now? Ah, it's a good time for your hand to heal too. Let's just consider it a rest, okay? Am I being fired from the hospital? Don't worry. Once this matter is over, I'll have you back at work. Come quickly, Zimo is having a seizure. Li's entertainment complex project is making progress. This time, Open public bidding above The competition is extremely fierce. Our biggest competition is Yu Ling International. It's the former Jiang Group, which changed its name about 7 years ago. President Jiang Yufeng has been expanding business overseas. He just returned to the country recently. Jiang Yu Feng That name sounds somewhat familiar. He will personally attend the charity dinner tonight. Mr. Li Come in. Jiang Yu Feng Young Master Li's illness has been cured. If there's nothing else, I'll head out. Wait a moment. Anything else, Mr. Li? Get dressed up tonight and accompany me to a charity dinner. I'm just Young Master Li's personal doctor. I'm not obliged to be Li's date, am I? You can't go to work now. Raising a child costs money, right? Accompany me to the banquet. I'll give you 500,000. Are you going or not? Alright. I'll go. Your dress is absolutely stunning, Mrs. Li. Of course it is. It's the latest LV haute couture, and it's one of a kind worldwide. Mr. Li really spoils you, Mrs. Li. What's up? Why didn't Mr. Li attend the dinner with Mrs. Li today? Li Group's entertainment projects Boiling hot He's just tied up for the moment. Why is President Li here? With a woman by his side. This little wretch, why is she always around? Behave yourself. Mr. Li's date this time is really pretty. I wonder whose daughter she is. She's just a Just a lowly murderer. Jing Xiu Why didn't you tell me you were coming to the banquet? Do I need your permission to bring someone to the banquet? Mr. and Mrs. Li, please chat first. I'll take my leave now. Don't try to play these tricks on me. Mrs. Li, don't be angry. She dared to seduce Mr. Li. We'll make her leave in tears. Xiaoling Xiaoling Yufeng Please, can you just meet with me? Stop dreaming and get out of here. Yufeng would never see you. Aunt Jiang Considering our families' long-standing relationship Yufeng and I are betrothed. Please, help my dad! You have the nerve to say that. Your dad's corruption has dragged our Jiang family down too. Get out of here now. Yu Feng could never marry you. Xiao Ling It's really you. You've mistaken me for someone else. I'm not some sprite. My name is Luo Qing. Luo Qing. Who looks exactly like Xiao Ling. What do you look like all flustered? Didn't anyone teach you banquet etiquette? If Mr. Li dislikes me, then I'll take my leave. Wait. Accompany me to meet someone. Who? You'll know when you see them. Mr. Jiang. Hey Mr. Li I've heard so much about you Hello, Mr. Jiang This is Mrs. Li Mr. Jiang is mistaken I'm just Mr. Li's personal doctor Yuling Group's business has always been abroad. Why did President Jiang suddenly choose to return to the country? Oh Some personal reasons, I suppose. Are you this nervous? Should I not have brought you to such an occasion? Waiter Escort Miss Luo back to the lounge to rest. Miss Luo, this way, please. Mr. Jiang You seem quite interested in my date. Ah Mr. Li, please don't misunderstand. Where is Miss Luo? She looks a lot like someone from my past. Oh. Who is it? His ex-fiancee. Mr. Jiang must be mistaken. Luo Qing has been living abroad. Mr. Li, please don't misunderstand, it's just a resemblance. Mr. Jiang I couldn't find Miss Luo in the lounge. Mr. Li I have some personal matters to attend to. I'll be excused for a moment. Luo Qing What's your true background? Let me out Help! I need to get out Just let her fend for herself in there Xiaoling It's Dad who's sorry for you Dad Dad Why didn't you wait for me? We were so close. We were so close. Did you know you hurt your dad? You're an ungrateful daughter; you ruined your dad. Are you still crying after causing your dad's death? You ungrateful daughter, you've killed your father. Yu Feng Thanks for saving me, Mr. Jiang. I can walk on my own. I'm leaving. Jing Xiu Could you please take off your shirt, Mr. Li? I'll help you with the wound. Did I hurt you? I'll be more careful. Luo Qing Have you been living abroad all this time? Didn't Boss Li look into me? Why ask suddenly like this? No. I just discovered something interesting. Have I ever mentioned to you My wife? Mr. Li only mentioned it. Your wife died from childbirth complications. But now I suspect she might not be dead. And she could be right here with me. Then Mr. Li should be happy about it. It's getting late. I'll take my leave. Could she really not be the woman from back then? Yu Feng Yu Feng Xiao Ling, are you still blaming me? That year, my mom threatened to die. She wouldn't let me see you back then That's why some things happened later. All these years, I've actually been looking for you. Xiaoling Give me one more chance. Please forgive me. I'll treat you right. No. Yu Feng I I'm not worthy of you anymore I don't care Are you the wealthy Chu's daughter? I'm already married. And I have two children. What is really going on here? Back then My mother, in order to keep me alive, Married me off to a Living dead man for a celebration of life. I bore him a child. After he died, The child was Taken away by the other mother. I was also kicked out of my home. I've come back this time to find my child. Do you have any clues? I only have one portrait of my grandmother but I'm not sure of her identity Let me see it Maybe I know Strange What about the portrait? It's fine Wait for you in a couple of days You can give it to me when you find it Xiaoling I don't care about your past If you're willing, Your child is my child. Yufeng, thank you. Zimo has had an attack. Come over now. What? Why did you get sick again so quickly? No more talking, hurry up and get here. Yu Feng I'm a bit busy right now Let's catch up later Ah Why do you look so much like Baymax? Why are you suddenly distancing yourself from me? It turns out your ex-fiance is back. How did you find out? Hmph. You admit it. You liar. Who is Aunt Snow? Why do you have her portrait there? Why do you have her portrait there? You stole from me. I found it. Give it back to me. Answer me. You're shameless. It seems that portrait is very important to you. Of course. Why? Do you know Aunt Xue? Can you tell me where she is? So this woman doesn't know Aunt Snow is my mother. Don't recognize You've lured Jing Xiu right into the house The old Mrs. Li will be back soon. Let's see how she throws you out Hey Mom How dare you still call me &quot;Mom&quot;? I've only been abroad for a few days and you've already let Xiaoya suffer. Are you still under the spell of that seductive woman? I'm your mother. Our family and the Zhao family have been longtime friends. Xiaoya stayed with you for those three years. Both for public and personal reasons, you should marry her. I think it's time for you two to get married. I will not marry her. If not her, then who? Could it be You're going to marry that so-called Luo Qing Luo Qing is just Zimo's Private doctor Only she can cure Zimo's illness So many famous doctors can't cure it. She's just a young girl It can be cured. I think you're bewitched. You just wait. Wait until I return to my country. I want that something What's the Luoqing that looks good Don't think bringing up my mom will put you above me Qiao Ya, let me tell you Starting today, Luo Qing is my real fiancee. What did you say? Why am I your fiancee? You were once able to be Jiang Yu Feng's fiancee Now you can be My, Li Jing Xiu's, fiancee. How could that be a disadvantage to you? Besides, it's just in name only. With this identity, You'll find anything in Nancheng very convenient. How do you know? Just keep Luoqing by your side. I'll find out sooner or later. What exactly she's looking for. Skipped class just to get the paternity test results. Said he never thought Zi Mo and I are really brothers. Zi Mo, have you seen the paternity test? Since we really are related by blood. Then your dad is my dad. Dr. Luo is also my mom. But for some reason, they don't know about each other's relationship. There must be some misunderstanding. We need to figure out what the misunderstanding is. Then help Dad and Mom clear it up. We'll show Dad the paternity test results. Then we'll drive that wicked woman away, so Daddy and Mummy can live happily together. No wonder I always felt a connection with Luo Qing. This little wench looks familiar. Indeed, she didn't die back then. That woman. Since you've walked right into my trap. Don't blame me for being ruthless. Zi Mo, this is your last treatment. From now on, you won't get sick anymore. I won't be able to see Dr. Luo anymore. I'd like to apologize to you. It's always been because I loved Jingxiu too much. I was bewitched. Now I've come to my senses. As long as he's healthy, I ask for nothing more. Mrs. Li, you worry too much. Zimo's illness is already cured. I won't be coming to your house anymore. Nor pose any threat. Ah Dr. Luo, the weather is really nice today. Why don't you take Zimo out for a while? Great, great. Have a good time out there. Hmm. Hey, Jingxiu. Zimo's gone missing. What on earth happened? It's Dr. Luo. She took Zimo out without permission, claiming you agreed. And then he was gone. What are you doing? Young Master Li has been kidnapped. Mommy, save me! Zi Mo Let me go Your son is in our hands Bai Don't touch my son. Let's talk this through. To be honest, I have both children in my grasp. What? You also kidnapped Li Zimo? What on earth do you want to do? I can give you money. I don't want money. I just want to play a fun game with you. If you dare to call the police, All that will be waiting for you are the bodies of two children. Take it out on me, not the child. Two locations. An abandoned building and a factory. You can only choose one. If I don't see you in 3 minutes, be prepared to collect the bodies of the two children. Luo Qing Do not speak to that man. This game is a secret between just the two of us. Where's my son? What have you done with him? Leave him alone, 321. If anything happens to my son, I won't let you off. I choose the factory. Hurry up then Don't forget You only have 3 minutes Miss Luo No matter which way you choose, you can only save one child. Guess which child it is. Waiting for you at the factory. You save one. It's like giving up on the other one automatically. Is it really about your own son's life being more important or Li Jingxiu? A child's life matters. They're just two kids. You guys, seriously? Miss Luo What if the one you save is Li Jingxiu's son, The one who died is your own son. Would you regret it? An unfinished building An unfinished building You're quite beautiful, but unfortunately, you're too conspicuous Someone wants to take it step by step. I'll take your life. Big White Little White Mommy's sorry for both of you. If there's an afterlife Mommy will make it up to you, double Xiaoling Yufeng There are still children inside. Xiaoling There are no children inside. There are still two children. All in the abandoned building. Li Jingxiu, I'm counting on you. What did you say? Xiaoling Daddy Zimo Daddy has another one Daddy has another one Bai is still upstairs. He was knocked out by the bad guys. You have to save him quickly. Bai Are you alright, young master Li? Take Zimo and leave first. There's another kid upstairs. It's too dangerous. It's getting late. The sky will be bright soon. I'll go. I'll go myself. Take Zimo to the hospital quickly. Yes. Zimo, no, this isn't Zimo. This is Big White. That mole of yours Enough Who is Aunt Snow Why do you have that? Her portrait You stole from me It seems that portrait means a lot to you So Luo Qing is that woman from back then The kids are in the abandoned building. And she went to the factory. Oh no. Our people are in the factory, Mr. Li. Not found Dr. Luo What Hurry, doctor What's going on? The patient went into shock after inhaling a lot of smoke. Get them to the resuscitation room, quickly! The patient is out of the danger zone, and vital signs have returned to normal. He'll wake up soon. Is Daddy Big White not going to die? He'll be fine. What about Mommy? Baymax, Baymax Mommy, are you okay? Baymax, Mommy thought she'd never see you again. Are you alright? It's okay. I'm sorry, Mommy didn't protect you well. You saved Big White. Thanks, I owe you one. It seems Luo Qing didn't know who she married back then. was me. Kidnap Zimo and Dabai. Take care of them. Li has sent everything to Northern Myanmar. Mr. Li, it's time to head to the airport. Madam Li's plane will land in 10 minutes. Oh my goodness. Hey Why are you here alone, Jingshu? He's at the hospital. How did he end up in the hospital? Is Zimo sick? No. It's about Luo Qing. What? I knew it. I want to see how this fox spirit has bewitched Jing Xiu. She wouldn't even come to pick me up when her own mother returned to the country. Mom Before we go to the hospital I have something to tell you Go ahead Back when I was treating Jing Xiu The woman who gave birth to the son is still alive What It's Luo Qing She couldn't have kids back then. It wasn't just Zi Mo, but twins. He brought the children with him when he returned to Nancheng this time. I suppose he must be thinking I knew it. This wretched woman is back. She's back with the child. Just want to climb onto my Li family's high branch. Let's hurry to the hospital. I'll make this vixen face reality. Mr. Li, Miss Qiao took Mrs. Li to the hospital. Go to the hospital. It's you. It's really you. You really didn't die. Aunt Snow Didn't expect it to be me, did you? I'd recognize you even if you turned to ash. The doctors had already sentenced you to death back then. You're still alive! It's none of your business. You've been hiding your identity for so many years, avoiding me. Now you suddenly come back with a child. What are you plotting? You think I don't know Let me tell you The position of Mrs. Li's wife You're not worthy I don't care about being the young mistress of the Li family. I just want my child back. Your child? That's our Li family's child. When you married Jingxiu back then And had two children It was for us to pay off your debts I've paid off your debts This child naturally belongs to our Li family. You're shameless. When I married into the family, You never mentioned going to Muliuzi. But during the delivery You stood by and did nothing Almost got me killed on the operating table. And now, after all these years apart, I'm taking my child away Blame your own family Low status, your own fault Mom You can't treat Luo Qing like this She is my wife. This woman is not dead. Yet she hasn't seen her own child for years. The world. How could there be such a cold-hearted mother? You concealed your own identity. I had no idea at all. Let me tell you. The position of Mrs. Li's family belongs to Xiaoya. This woman is unworthy. I'm warning you, if you don't break it off with her, You won't have me as your mother. I'm sorry. I failed to protect you back then and let you down. You knew all along, didn't you? You're the one who instigated Zimo. You always wear a mask when you see me. That's because each time he has an episode, he... Don't put on airs. Your whole family is ruthless. You want to act more passionate in front of me. You think I'll forgive you just like that? Right? Luo Qing, calm down first. Return Da Bai and Zimo to me Give me back my son How dare you say that's your son The child I carried for ten months. Why not my son? I disagree. Da Bai and Xiao Bai Since you're a member of the Li family, you must come back with me. Xiao Bai is not your child. What are you saying? Xiao Bai is my child with Xiao Ling. I don't believe it. Absolutely true. That's great. You unfaithful woman. Both Zimo and Dabai are my sons, Li Jingxiu. You won't take any of them away. Yufeng, how could you? The paternity test is fake. I know. You're worried Li Jingxiu will take Xiao Bai away from you. Yu Feng Thank you Xiao Qing Will you marry me? I will treat Xiao Bai as my own child. With my whole life, I will protect you and our daughter. I'm sorry, Jiang Yu Feng. I'm not in the mood to think about these things right now. All I want is to get my Da Bao and Er Bao back. You're the one who's despicable. If it weren't for your mother, I would have taken Mrs. Li's place long ago. How could a good-for-nothing like you be worthy of Jing Xiu's affection? I'm telling you, everything of the Li family is mine. Once I marry into the Li family, and bear an heir for them, I'll get rid of you and Xiao Bai. Send those people to the orphanage together. Zimo, what are you doing? Da Bai From now on, I'll be your mommy. You're not my mommy. Bad woman. What's wrong? What's the matter? I have no idea either. Ever since Baymax came, Zimo has been like this. Maybe they had an argument. Zi Mo, Da Bai Open the door Tell daddy what you've done Oh my, Zi Mo, your face is red and swollen Did you get into a fight? Did you guys have a fight? Did you, Big White, bully Zimo? I didn't bully anyone. Zi Mo Lying is not good behavior Bai is here to apologize to Zi Mo This Bai has been spoiled by Luo Qing Daddy's a bad man. He doesn't love me. He doesn't love me, he only loves Zimo. I'm going to find Mommy. What's wrong, Baymax? What's the matter, Baymax? Daddy doesn't love me anymore. Baymax, tell Mommy what's going on. Zimo's face is red and swollen. Dad insists that I bullied Zimo, but I didn't. Red and swollen. Could it be Joya again? Sabotaging from within Mommy of course trusts Baymax, he's so sensible How could I possibly bully my own brother? Daddy must have misunderstood Does Daddy really love me? Daddy must love you, or he wouldn't have taken you away from Mommy. from Mommy's hands. Mommy, please tell Daddy for me. Bai will definitely be a sensible and obedient child. I won't let him down. Alright, let's go back to our room and rest. Shall we? Let's go. Where's Baymax? You have the nerve to ask. What did you do to him to make him so upset? It's none of your business. I need to take Baymax back with me. I won't let you take him away. You have no idea how to take care of him. You're trying to take back the child this way. The child is still young. He doesn't realize how important the living environment is. Don't you, as an adult, know that? What's the benefit of having Baymax with you? Can you provide him with a good life? He doesn't need it. How would you know? He doesn't need to. Let me tell you, I, Li Jingxiu, will never allow my own child to call someone else 'Dad'. Mommy I'm scared Zimo, what's wrong? Zimo, can you open the door? Your father is very worried about you. Get out of the way. Zi Mo Open the door, it's Mommy. Mommy's here Mommy Mom, please don't leave me, I don't want that. Joya, that wicked woman Be my mommy I want you to come to my home To be the nanny for these two kids There's no way I can agree to that This is your only chance to be with both children. I'm their mother. Not their babysitter. And don't think you can use the kids to get back together with me. You think I'd accept a woman like you, who's already tainted? I'm tainted. Are you any less tainted than me? You let a woman like Joya into the house? Who are you to judge me? You're jealous. Who do you think I am? Can I disregard the harm your family did to me? Stick to it like a leech. I'm telling you, It's impossible. What do you mean? I'll stay for the kids. But I'm definitely not a nanny. If you keep claiming to be their mom, then take care of your own children. If only this woman hadn't changed her heart. Staying here makes it easier to take along. my child and fly far away. Yu Feng, I entrust Xiao Bai to you. Don't worry. Why can Baymax live with Dad? I want to live with Daddy too. Because Mommy doesn't want Dad to take you away from me. When I get the chance, I'll contact you right away. By then, I'll need your help to escape the country. Xiaoling No matter what you do I will always support you When I get abroad I'll definitely show my gratitude. My big white is really great. Zi Mo is also amazing. This Luo Qing Really an eyesore. Miss Luo The old lady's teacup fell and shattered on the ground. Could you come and clean it up? Bring me a new set. Who's the servant here, me or you? Luo Qing Don't get too full of yourself. In our Li family, you're not even as good as a nanny. I'm here to accompany the child. I'm not your babysitter. Don't bully my mommy. Old woman What did you say? Look at how you spoil my grandson I don't care Today No matter what happens You need to come and clean this up for me Grandma, Mommy, please stop arguing Let Zimo clean up. Zimo, don't touch. Dangerous. What are you doing? Young master is Lady Li's teacup. It's broken. He wants Miss Luo to help clean it up. Miss Luo is unwilling herself. Let Young Master Zimo help. And the result is What's the point of me, Li, supporting you good-for-nothings? If you can't do it, then get out! Yes. Alright, it's not a big deal. I'm just saying. I didn't expect Luo Qing to have such a temper. If I must say I treated her like a nanny She's really different, coming from a humble background She has high aspirations Still narrow-minded. Yes. Of course, I don't have the grace of a noble lady like Mrs. Li. Look at her getting all sarcastic. You don't respect me as an elder at all. Alright. Luo Qing Tend to Zimo's wounds first. Mommy, you're bleeding too. It's okay, Mommy. You didn't even mention that you hurt your hand. Such a big wound. Is Boss Li blind? Call me Aheng. You don't deserve to mention him. Do you hate me that much? I don't hate you. I hate myself for being too naive. You really are impervious to reason, aren't you? You wretched woman. How dare you still have the face to stay by Jingxiu's side? Take a look at this. I think this one works too. I think this one looks good too. The red suits you. Luo Qing Come here for a moment. What can I do for you, Miss Qiao? Just come over when I call you, no need for so much chatter. Jing Xiu and I are getting engaged. Come over and help us choose our engagement outfits. Engagement. You and Li Jingxiu are getting engaged. Of course. Xiao Ya, when did you get engaged to Jingxiu? Mom Didn't you always want me to marry Jingxiu sooner? And I've been waiting for Brother Jingxiu for so many years. Six years ago, When Jingxiu had just woken up. I just want him to marry you as soon as possible. I can't believe that ungrateful kid only has eyes for that woman. He refuses to budge. It's all because of that wretched woman, Luo Qing. Hey What's with the rush? You're getting engaged to Joy. Who told you that? Just answer me yes or no. You're jealous. I absolutely forbid it. People like Qiao Ya. Be the mother of my child. Luo Qing You're much cuter when you're jealous than usual. Li Jingxiu Don't flatter yourself. I forbid you to get engaged to Qiao Ya. Luo Qing Who do you think you are? Who Li Jingxiu marries Is none of your business It seems Li Jingxiu is really going to marry Qiao Ya No way, I can't let the child fall into Qiao Ya's hands Yu Feng I think the time has come. Mommy, where have you been lately? Xiao Bai, I haven't seen you for so long, I miss you so much! Be a good boy, Xiao Bai. Is mom busy with something lately? Once mom is done, I'll take you back to Grandmaster. Is that okay? Will Baymax join us? Absolutely. What about Daddy? Daddy Everything is all set. Take Baymax with you then. Exit from the Li's place. I'll personally drive Little White to pick you up. I'll take you to the airport. Thank you, Yu Feng. I don't know what I'd do without you. Mommy, I miss Xiao Bai so much. When can we finally bring her back home? Bai, do you like it here? Yes, I do. But I like Mommy and Xiao Bai even more. So, Mommy if I take you to Grandmaster's place, would you like that? In that case Will I never see Daddy again? I'm sorry, Baymax You can only choose between Daddy and Mommy Mommy won't cry. I choose Mommy. Sorry, Zimo, mommy can't be this selfish. to take you away. May this jade pendant keep you safe. Mommy will always miss you. Bai Bai, it's time to wake up. Time's up. Mommy, Baymax. Let's go. Hmm. Go. You were right, Mr. Li. Dr. Luo indeed fled with the young master Bai. They're heading towards the airport right now. Prepare the car, let's go to the airport. I'll take him down myself. Jing Xiu Where are you off to in the middle of the night? Get out of my way. Xiao Ling Don't worry, I'll take care of everything here. Yu Feng I really don't know how to thank you. Farewell Okay Goodbye, Uncle Yu Feng I dare anyone to leave Li Jingxiu, what are you doing? Let me go! Let me go! Let me go, let me go! Li Jingxiu You bastard. Luo Qing You dare to elope with that man And take my child away without permission. You asked for it. Li Jingxiu, let me go. You can leave now. You're not allowed to get near Zimo and Dabai anymore. Uncle Gu Xiao Ya's here, please have a seat Your father and I were close friends when we were young Later, I left Nancheng to pursue opportunities in Beichuan Our connection has weakened. When something happened to your family. I have no idea. By the time I got the news, It's too late. Your father sent me a letter on his deathbed. He asked me to take care of you. I searched everywhere, but there was no news of you. Uncle Gu, I never expected to run into you in Nancheng. I've never given up looking for you all these years. I never thought you'd be in Nancheng. It's fate. I have no children of my own. From today on, you are my daughter, Gu Mingyuan's. Li has searched the entire southern city. But there's no sign of Dr. Luo. Go find him again. Mr. Li Gu Mingyuan, the richest man in North City Just found his long-lost daughter in South City. This is the homecoming party he prepared for Miss Gu. You are invited to attend. I won't go. Gu Group and Li Group have a trillion-dollar order collaboration. It might not be appropriate not to go. I heard the richest man in North City is Gu Mingyuan. has finally found his long-lost daughter. This banquet It's to introduce this Gu Qianjin to I'd like to introduce you to the richest man in South City. She's the richest man in North City, and she's his daughter. You're so lucky. A lady of great wealth Ha-ha Not sure yet Some wild girl from who knows where She dares to call herself a lady of great worth, that's hilarious. That's one way to put it. But with Gu Mingyuan's grand gesture, it's clear he values this daughter a lot. If we could get in the good graces of Miss Gu... Doesn't that mean you can climb up to the Gu family? I've heard That Miss Gu hasn't made an appearance yet Every promising young man in the southern city wants to marry into the Gu family. So what if it's worn out? So what? All the men in South City Can't compare to Li Jingxiu's. A single finger That bitch Luo Qing is missing. Mrs. Li can now rest easy Really? Is that so? Why, it's you. How come? Miss Qiao was surprised to see me here. How did you get in? This is a banquet specially prepared for Miss Gu's daughter. Only the elite and powerful of South City are invited. You need an invitation to get in and out. You didn't sneak in, did you? Hahaha Miss Qiao racked her brains but couldn't figure it out. How did I get in here? What do you mean? My dear How come you're with Luo Qing? Wearing the same necklace This is crafted by the world's top jewelry master The Star of the Sea One of a kind in the whole world You guys wouldn't have A fake one, would you? Definitely not. She's a fake. Mine is the real deal. Jing Xiu flies to Paris. Auction. Took this one just for me. What she's wearing must be fake. There was news recently about The Star of the Sea Snapped up for a billion by some big shot. So that big shot is Mr. Li. Mrs. Li is so fortunate. This is a gift for you. Open it and see. Uncle Gu, this is too precious. I can't accept it. Ah, take it. I flew to Paris just to bid on this Blue Star for you. You are my daughter, Gu Mingyuan. You deserve it. Are you sure that big shot's surname is Li? Are you sure that big shot's surname is Li? Of course, it's from Jing Xiu, how could it be fake? For Mr. Li, a mere billion. Just a little drizzle. You're not jealous, are you? Some people always crave what they can't have. It's really pathetic to buy a fake to save face. You're talking about Qiao Ya, aren't you? I see you won't admit defeat until you're cornered. Master Wang, the appraiser, is right here in this banquet hall. Since Miss Luo is so stubborn, let's call Master Wang over. Let Master Wang appraise which one is the real Neptune's Blue Star. What do you think, Master Wang? Is it genuine or fake? No need to rush. The fake one hasn't been verified yet. The lady here is wearing a fake. Miss Qiao is wearing the real one. Heart of the Sea I'm truly one of a kind An expensive replica can be so convincing it's indistinguishable from the real thing Hehehe Unbelievable The world-famous appraiser Can't even tell the authenticity of a necklace What's there to be arrogant about wearing a fake? Someone Get this woman who snuck into the banquet hall and throw her out. Hold on Wait a minute Jing Xiu, what are you doing here? She said the Sea Blue Star you bought for me is fake. I can't believe the wealthy and doting Mr. Li actually gave his fiancee a fake necklace The last item of this auction, the Heart of the Sea I believe everyone has been looking forward to it Starting bid is 100 million, each increase is 100 million. You may start bidding. Two hundred million once. I bid three hundred million. Three hundred million once. This gentleman, Four hundred million. Any higher than four hundred million? Eight hundred million This gentleman Bids eight hundred million Eight hundred million once This gentleman Nine hundred million I bid one billion One billion Once Twice Sold The real Star of the Sea How did it end up around Luo Qing's neck? Could it be Xiao Ling, what are you doing here? Just killing time, visiting an old friend. How did I get into such a high-class banquet? Turns out I've climbed onto a high branch. The Jiang family is considered a high branch? They're far from the Li family. Who does he think he is? Ahh! You actually stepped on me! Jing Xiu, she's bullying me like this and you won't help me? Thank you all for joining my humble banquet amidst your busy schedules. The main purpose of this gathering is to introduce my daughter to you all. Could it be that Luo Qing is the so-called Miss Gu? What nonsense are you talking about? Gu Qianjin's surname is Gu. Luo Qing's surname is Luo. She's just not presentable. Why does it have to be Miss Gu? Luo Qing Hello everyone, my name is Luo Qing. Glad to be in this role. Gathering with a thousand ladies Meeting everyone Before the banquet begins I want to announce something. Miss Qiao just slandered my necklace as fake. Then she wanted to kick me out of my own welcome-back party. This is a total disrespect. Look down on my Gu family even more. So on behalf of the Gu family, I've decided to cancel the trillion-dollar cooperation with the Li family. What? Gu Jia is being so unreasonable! Gu Shoufu is really muddled. What do you know? Gu Shoufu is spoiling his daughter. Who would dare to offend Luo Qing? That would be the end. You're a jinx. You've brought shame to our family. Mom You brought this on yourself. Move aside. Luo Qing I wonder if I have the honor May I have the pleasure of this dance? Of course. What are you doing? Come with me. Hey, you. Let me go. It seems Mr. Li still can't get me out of his mind. Hmph. I just wanted to take a look. What's the catch with you? What's the catch with me? Is it any of your business? Okay. Luo Qing Don't regret it Humph Miss Luo, please have a drink Oh no. It seems like I've been drugged. Let me go. Who are you? Let me go. Get out of here. Are you okay? I feel terrible. Li Jingxiu, help me! Luo Qing, don't regret this. How did I get involved with Li Jingxiu? End up together with him? Master Zimo and Master Dabai are missing. What? Mommy You suddenly took us away from our bodyguard uncle. Will Daddy be angry? Daddy isn't that stingy. I'll prove it. Dad's not a stingy person. Miss Luo took my son without even saying hello. What does this mean? He's my son, why can't I take him away? It's better for the child to be with me than with Mr. Li. Someone who doesn't even like their own mother. Ji Shu takes the two young masters home. Miss Luo My apologies Bye, Mommy Bye, Mommy See you next time. Miss Luo What does this mean? Literally. Luo Qing, you've got some guts. Daring to make a fool of me. I'm just complimenting you. Boss Li should be pleased. Mr. Li once said he doesn't like women like me who are already tainted. Xiao Ya offended you last time, I've brought her here this time. I just want her to apologize to the Gu family specifically. She should apologize to Xiaoqing. Not to me, this old man. Yes, yes, yes. Ah Xiaoqing, come and sit down Xiaoqing Lady Li personally brought Qiao Ya I've come to apologize to you. Well, I'm curious to see how. What's your way of apologizing? Miss Luo I was quite rude at the last banquet. Please don't hold it against me, I'm just a nobody. Joya has already apologized. Moving forward, The Gu family and our Li family. trillion cooperation should be achievable, right? Dream on. She's already apologized; what more do you want from her? Just because you apologize, I have to forgive? Every single thing Qiao Ya has done to me, Each and every one, I will never forgive. The butler shows the guests out. Mrs. Liao, Miss Qiao. Please. Your Gu family. Don't push us too far, Gu family. I also respect Xiaoqing's opinion. If she's unwilling to forgive, I can't force her. And it seems like Qiao Ya's intentions aren't genuinely apologetic just an embarrassing spectacle Let's get going. Xiaoqing, ah There are some things We shouldn't be too obsessed with. You're easily hurt. Godfather, I understand. Goodbye, Mr. Luo. Come with me. What's up? Come to my place. What's wrong? My mom said the kids miss you and asked me to bring you home. The kids miss me. Just bring him over. Hi, Mommy, I missed you! Mommy, I missed you too! I'll be right back. Try this newly arrived Longjing tea before the Qingming festival. Oh, I'm not used to such hot tea. Thanks for the trouble, Miss Qiao. Get me another one. Miss Luo Just a moment. Oops. I'm really sorry. It was my mistake. Could you please pick it up, Miss Qiao? Let me do it, Miss Qiao. Don't move. Isn't Miss Qiao supposed to feel sorry for me? No way. You won't even do this for me. Oh, Xiaoya, just pick it up when you're told. It's not a big deal. Let go. Xiao Zhao Take Miss Qiao downstairs. Tend to the wound. Miss Qiao is too careless. Don't you think? Mrs. Li Yes Thank you, Miss Qiao, for your hard work Matriarch Li You called me here not just to see the kids, right? This Zi Mo and Da Bai The child is still very young. The child's living environment is crucial. I've been pondering over it. This child here. It's better to stay with your parents. It's better to stay with your parents. Ms. Jo. I've always prided myself on the fact that Are you Zimo's mother? How can a foster mother compare to a biological one? Besides, The child's health needs both you and Jingxiu. We should work together. Oh, right. Your marriage to Jing Xiu should still be valid. How did I forget about that? Back then, Madame Li didn't think highly of me. she still made sure Li Jingxiu and I got our marriage certificate. If I were to really die, Li Jingxiu's widowed marital status would naturally dissolve. But I'm not dead now. With Li Jingxiu We're still a legitimate couple. Old Lady Li You're threatening me. How can it be a threat? You reunite with Jingxiu after a long time. If a broken mirror can be made whole again. You gotta take some time to resolve it, right? I gave you, Jingxiu, and two kids. It's perfect for this weekend. Are you free this weekend? The four of you should go and have a good time together. It's settled then. Mom, what are you implying? She hasn't divorced Jing Xiu. How can I marry Jing Xiu then? Stop dreaming about marrying Jing Xiu. How can you do this, mom? Don't call me mom. You're such a disappointment. How many chances have I given you over these nine years? You've never seized a single one. And don't think I don't know. When Jing Xiu was seriously ill back then You refused to give him A child to bring him luck You looked down on him You turned around and left the country. If it weren't for Luo Qing's low status how could I possibly look for you to replace the child's mother? It's causing a rift between me and Jingxiu. Now, Luo Qing is the richest person in Beicheng. The daughter of the Gu family. If she can reconcile with Jing Xiu, our Li family not only can restart the trillion-dollar order cooperation with the Gu family, but our Li family's status in Beicheng will also rise to a higher level. You've ruined everything I had. I wish you were dead. Xiao Bai Our family day event Why did you bring someone else's child here? Daddy, Xiaobai is also your daughter. Yes, Xiaobai is our sister too. Alright, enough talking. Aren't we going hiking today? Let's begin. Go. You little wretch, this time Am I going to die in this desolate wilderness? As long as you're dead, I'm the Knight family. The rightful Mrs. Knight. And the mother of my two children. The rightful mother. Xiao Bai That stinky man doesn't care about his own daughter at all. What's the use of him? What do you want to do? Of course, it's to take your life. Daddy Mommy and Xiaobai are missing. I heard there are many man-eating wolves on this mountain. Mommy Are Mommy and Xiao Bai going to be okay? Daddy, please save Mommy and Xiao Bai! Luo Qing What exactly does Jing Xiu like about you? Is it your face? Should I just ruin it then? How about that? Don't hurt my mommy! Xiao Bai Luo Qing, where are you? Jing Xiu Jing Xiu, save me! Luo Qing Qiao Ya I'm warning you. Luo Qing is my woman, dare you touch her? I want you to die without a grave. Is that so? Let me show you first. Come say hello to Jingxiu. I made you laugh. How's that? Jingxiu. Seeing the woman you love suffer must be heartbreaking. It must hurt a lot, doesn't it? Ahahaha Do you know? Every moment you spend with Luo Qing, My heart aches just like yours do now. Even if I die today, I'll make sure Luo Qing and that little brat join me in death. Hahaha Qiao Ya, Qiao Ya Send out the Lijias immediately All bodyguards and helicopters, search the mountains at all costs to find Luo Qing You said Li Jingxiu came looking for her. What would he do if he saw your daughter's corpse? Hahaha He must still think this daughter is yours and Jiang Yu Feng's. The little bastard. Hahaha Bastard. Hahahaha Don't touch my daughter. What a touching mother-daughter bond. Shall I send you off first? Then I'll see her on her way. Let you two have a proper reunion. Hahahahaha Not good, it's a helicopter. Li Jingxiu has come knocking. No need to panic. Let her go. Release her. Stay back, or I'll cut you down one by one. Daddy, save me and Mommy quickly! Li Jingxiu The child and Luo Qing You can only choose one. Choose Xiao Bai She's your child I choose Luo Qing Okay Since you've chosen Luo Qing, I'll let go of you. Let me go. I want this woman dead. I want her dead. Let me go. Finish this wicked woman right here. Leave it in the mountains for the wild wolves. Let me go! Daddy, it's all my fault. If it weren't for my careless slip... Mommy and I won't be caught by the bad guys. Mommy won't get hurt either. Good to know. Mr. Li Xiao Bai is indeed your biological daughter. Xiao Bai It's Dad who's sorry. It's okay, Daddy. Mom's afraid you'll take me away from her. Now I just hope Mom is safe and sound. President Li, don't worry. Dr. Luo's injury is on the shoulder, not life-threatening. You'll wake up soon. Xiao Bai Mom's fine. Xiao Qing, you're finally awake. Xiao Qing I already know everything I'm sorry for Xiao Bai I'm sorry to you You've worked hard raising two kids all these years. Once you're better, I'll bring Dabai, Xiaobai, and you back to the Li family. And take good care of you all. I will never take your child away again. I just ask for one chance from you. To fulfill the responsibilities a husband and father should have. Xiao Qing, I love you. Go away. I don't want to see you again. Xiao Qing Jiang Yu Feng is my ex-fiance. I've always loved him. Marrying you was just an accident. Now I'm going to be with the one I truly love. You should leave. Xiao Qing, stop lying to me. I'm not deceiving you. Why go to such lengths? Choose Xiao Bai. I choose Luo Qing. Miss Luo, congratulations, you're pregnant. The baby is already five weeks old. Doctor Can I terminate this pregnancy? Miss Luo, you should have had a history of childbirth. The previous childbirth caused you significant harm. You can't afford to have an abortion again. I need to remind you that Your baby's condition is unstable. There's a high risk of miscarriage. You need to take good care of the pregnancy. Xiaoling Have the baby. I will raise him as my own. Yu Feng I've troubled you many times already. I'll handle this child myself. Since I joined the Gu Group, since I joined the Gu Group. I must secure it. What are you doing here? Miss Luo, you're so eager after just a few days apart. Could it be that Jiang Yu Feng hasn't satisfied you? There's a need to come here for pleasure-seeking. Li Jingxiu, you're drunk. Let me go. I can let you go. Follow me. Let me go. If you finish all this alcohol, I'll let you go. Li Jingxiu, I can't drink. Why not? I'm pregnant. It's Jiang Yu Feng who doesn't let you drink, right? Stop making excuses. I've heard enough. You bastard. Do you know Xiaoling is pregnant? Pregnant It's not my child You're such a jerk Could the child in Xiao Qing's belly be mine? Who among you is the father of the child? Me. I'm sorry, we did our best. But the fetus is too premature And malnourished Already showing signs of miscarriage The child couldn't be saved I killed my own child with my own hands. Xiao Qing, you're awake. Where is my child? Where is my child? If a child is lost, we can have another. Take care of your health first. The doctor said not to get too excited. You murderer, I'll kill you! It's all my fault. It's my fault for not taking good care of my child. Xiao Qing The doctor said That it's an unhealthy child. Even if we take good care, it doesn't mean they'll be born safely. It means the child wasn't meant to be with you. Don't blame yourself too much. I don't believe it. I can't believe my child has no connection with me. I can't believe my child could be so heartless. Li Jingxiu I have to find my child. You can't stop me. If you do, I'll kill myself. No, no. Xiao Qing is in danger. Boss Li ordered us to kill her. But she's so delicate and tender. I really can't bear to do it. Let me go. How about we rape you first, then kill you? Let me go, you beasts! How could we let you go? You dog's leg Let me go. Call us lackeys. Big brother. Do you think we'd let you go? Let's savor this woman, she's been with Boss Li. I heard she's a big star, right? Record this for me. I'll watch it later at my leisure. I have a lot of money. After playing the big star, Money comes naturally. Luo Qing You've taken everything from me. I'll make you pay with your life. Jing Xiu Doctor, how's my mother? Mom Sorry Patient Resuscitation failed Jing Xiu I still remember the first time I saw you, just like now, lying in bed. Like a sleeping beauty. I've taken care of everything for Mom's funeral. Jing Xiu, please wake up quickly, will you? If you just wake up, I'll agree to anything you want. I promise. When did you wake up? Just now. Was everything you just said true? What? You said you'd agree to anything once I woke up. I was just What are Dad and Mom doing? Can't you tell? They're kissing. Are we going to have a little brother or sister soon? I want you to never leave me. Okay, I promise.