LINDA A. HILL: We know that organizations aren't able to as agile as they don't have the kind of If you came to the Harvard great leadership was really and making sure that people How do you come When I came almost 40 years ago, to, really, vision. So people like John helped us understand to have a bigger ambition What's the vision? Where are we going and why? What I've come to to do research in the 2000s-- yes, you still need But guess what? Because innovation has that means, really, to shaping culture You have to move from focusing and how do I communicate to follow me to the future? Instead, leading innovation to co-create that And co-creation requires a [MUSIC PLAYING] If you want to lead and build an organization at scale with speed, have three functions The ABCs of leadership-- A, you must be an architect, B, you must be a catalyst. The first role is the building the culture necessary for a group of people experiment, and learn. Innovative work is not having an aha moment. It's really about of individuals with diverse points of view and again, how to collaborate, and learn together we call collective genius. The idea here is that has a slice of genius. Everyone has talents, Your role as a leader is to of genius in your and harness them for How do you get everyone to understand that on not just what but what they could be doing? The second is B, or bridger. We have to go outside the to talent and tools. You need to be able to have the talent and tools you to innovate at Just don't. Particularly now that digital you are always, you are really embedded in a And that means trying to So we see many organizations or asking leaders to lead are serving as the bridge of the organization We've been studying leaders corporate accelerators-- even first are finding that with other digital to get access to Because other organizations than they are better need to focus on are their core capabilities. And then the third is catalyst. And this is when you're trying throughout the entire ecosystem. And there can be a for why you want to do that. One may be that you want to do inside you need other people, able to innovate, to create something that you The other is, fundamentally, trying to just create in the whole ecosystem. Because when you lift the It's when your ambition than your organization trying to change a of a whole continent. So you have to get active and co-creating if you An example would be as secure yourself in then if you can help your have more cybersecurity, So that's an instance But when you're actually doing that is where you're So these three roles We've been studying the leader It turns out that innovate and be as to be if, in fact, their vendors So we have leaders there who and turning those vendors into have a real connection. We do trust each other. We do know how to We are willing to make Because only when we are we willing to do the to actually do something like and make the Now, what you see-- again, leader-- is working to put of people who are in the to go back and think about, we want to set? And talk with that we know what's allow us to bring hope to across the industry to to do more innovative work. So what we see is organizations to get what they need. What they're really how to exercise don't have formal authority. We've got to let go as our source of Instead, we're being able to shape being able to forge connections real connections have mutual trust, and mutual commitment. Don't rely so much on as a way of influencing people. It's not very useful, because if you're using that as maybe you can control building their commitment. And you need to have people take with trying to do particularly a breakthrough You don't use formal authority because you cannot tell You can only invite them. It is a voluntary act.