Writing one villain into a game is easy. Wait, no it's not... OK, writing one villain is hard. But SEVEN villains? That's like twice as hard. But a big group of villains is so much fun. An entire cast of villains can unlock group Evil organizations, lone wolves teaming up, you just get a level of complexity that you So what goes into creating a group of bad How do you balance a bunch of strong personalities Let's get into how to create a cast of villains, build a bad team. If you've got some bizarre indie game concept going to need a powerful game engine. Try today's episode sponsor, GameMaker! GameMaker is a perfect tool to take your first about. It's a fantastic game engine that's completely making it easy to use even if you don't If you're a professional developer, that's They've got the depth you need to take full If you're a first-time coder, that's also Two-thirds of games made in GameMaker are The intuitive GML Visual system lets you code Game Maker has a very active community on always get help when you need it, and it will Game Maker is a real deal tool - powerful GameMaker was used to create Undertale, Hyper It's not kidding around. Start building your game today! Download GameMaker using the link in the description. Thanks, GameMaker. Ok, so this is about a CAST of villains, not This is about the group dynamics of a lot This is also about a cast of VILLAINS - focused role in the story than just normal enemies. If you want a video on a Cast of ENEMIES, out afterwards. First things first. Why have multiple villains? I mean, you could have just one. That sounds easier, right? Some games can make that work, but a single Encountering a single villain multiple times Eggman. Eggman again. It's Eggman. Turn a corner, oh, what's that? There's Eggman. Each time you beat them, you can very easily not careful. Single villains need a progressive challenge Coming up with reasons for them to get involved stretch believability. Now, if it's a Sonic villain, maybe being the problem gets more acute the further you vibe. Again, you can make a single villain work. Games do that all the time. But a cast of villains solves some of these Having multiple villains lets a writer be Not everything has to hinge on a single person. Each villain can help tell smaller subplots, different angles. More than one villain lets you have more than More than one thing the villain is suited More than one place where a villain can feel More than one challenge for the heroes. More than one weakness for the protagonists More than one motif the game can use to explore game world. Ok, so let's have a bunch of villains in That sounds fun. Now you have to design the cast. If you've decided to have a bunch of villains like? Who will each of them be? Why do they do what they do? That's a question that demands a different just for one. So, where to start? Well, even if the villains are a part of a a sense of purpose. What's the point of each villain? There are a lot of options. Take Mega Man. Mega Man has a huge cast of villains, serving what could otherwise be pretty interchangeable Most Mega Man games follow a simple formula. Dr. Wily or some other mad scientist causes and cause havoc to distract you. Most games have about 8 of these 'Robot order before you can take the fight to the Each Robot Master has its own gimmick - a and corresponding weapon that the player receives The specific themes of each robot master aren't They might not even relate to the other robot The snake robot in one game could be swapped much of a problem. Their purpose is more about a central cohesive to their levels. The robot masters tie the colorful stages, and the loose rules about what types of designs lets the designers be open to a wide variety needed. Each villain in the set helps give a reason it does, and the fun designs give you something level. But if you're looking for villains with another path. One popular option for narrative-driven games aspect or character trait of your protagonists. This can make a villain that isn't even to the game in a longer-term way. Persona 4 has a chain of antagonists, each the members of the main cast. Persona 4's narrative revolves around a are thrown into a mysterious 'TV World' by the people that enter it. Shadows are the manifestations of suppressed aspects of ourselves that we keep hidden from That sounds like the kind of thing you Each major boss in the TV World is a reflection characters, brought to life with an explosively Yosuke's childish desire for adventure and Yukiko's sense of being trapped by her family's Kanji's personal shame and insecurity. Teddy's... wait, what IS Teddy? Each fight is a not-very-subtle symbol of also tying back to the game's overarching The chain of clues runs through each of the in the TV world reveal more secrets, or add the main plot without having them all directly The villains tie to the game's central theme the main cast goes through by defeating each Since we're talking about games, there are villains that you couldn't do in other kinds Villains can have a mechanical purpose as Now, a character that is just mechanically-focused On the flip side, a game villain who is just writing, that might be underwhelming as a in the face. But if a villain happens to have a mechanical a narrative to a game's mechanics while Metal Gear Solid does this very well. Most of the minor villains in the series are full of over-the-top personalities and wild gameplay to become some of the most memorable Psycho Mantis is a classic. He's a real actual psychic, with plenty Once you get to fight him, he uses psychokinetic If that was all, that'd be fine, but Psycho more by shattering the fourth wall and getting He reads button prompts to dodge you, alters save data from your plugged-in memory card To take him down, you have to kick him out Psycho Mantis is a masterful blending of a fresh gameplay, and the other villains in Dealing with Revolver Ocelot's ricochet The tense sniper battles with Sniper Wolf, And of course, fighting Liquid Snake in Metal The set piece fights are astounding, both At least for the time. The series kept that design philosophy going Metal Gear Solid 3's The End is just as A 100-year-old sniper who can use photosynthesis by outsmarting him or breaking the 4th wall The Sorrow is literally the ghost of another is entirely dependent on your playstyle up Every living thing you've killed, whether appears as a ghost you have to get around. The more of them, the harder the fight becomes, game forces you to think laterally to beat The meshing of personality and gameplay in that unforgettable something that makes those The series isn't always as good as that, For every The End, there's a The Bees. Err, The Pain. The Pain is pretty memorable, but I wouldn't It's more about the bees. Metal Gear Solid 4 has a harder time making Each member of the Beauty and the Beast Unit makes her look like a robotic animal, and ONLY one. You have Laughing Octopus, Raging Raven, Crying The encounters are on average some of the Though they start strong with Laughing Octopus, surroundings to find her. The rest of these fights aren't as strong. Raging Raven is one of the more annoying encounters, top of a clock tower. Crying Wolf is essentially Sniper Wolf but a puzzle boss with a very specific solution The fight structure for all 4 is super formulaic You'll fight one, they'll have a mental "2nd phase" in their "Beauty" form to grab you. After the fight, you then get an exposition their whole backstory and why their name fits The members of the unit aren't memorable don't do a great job building up Liquid nature especially makes them not stand out series. The villain fights in MGS4 show off how far enough presence to stand out from the cast. So you have ideas for a big cast of villains. They're all unique and cool, good job, A One problem, though. Villains can tend to be lone wolves. They've got their own weird motivations play nice with each other. Jam together a bunch of those characters willy-nilly A cast of villains often feels best when they're How can you structure your villains to make Well, easiest would be to make them all work EvilCo, or the Evil Empire, or the mystical Organizations can provide a base for each to stick together. Almost any hierarchy can be a great place Maybe it's about rank and prestige. Some villains might report to others. Some might want to rise through the ranks the crown for themselves. This can set up great extra motivations for They could want to show off in front of their Or maybe they want to sabotage them instead They could want to steal the glory of knocking them up for careless mistakes. The structure can create motivation, the motivation those can combine to create some great drama for a bit and smoothly lead the narrative You can see how hierarchy builds up even a Star Fox 64, to Andross in Star Fox Adventures. Andross is the main villain in both games. In Star Fox 64, he's the commander of a the game is to planet hop, take out his lieutenants Star Wolf team working for him, and bit by The villain cast's motivations range from to... mostly taunting you... to duty... to to revenge by the end of it. None of it is super deep. But they're all working for the same evil closer to the top of the ladder. Andross doesn't have any sort of deep reason 64, he's just evil. He just does it. None of the villains are much more than cardboard The hierarchy itself is what provides the It gives structure and context for the main you find along the way, and a reason for the Andross in Star Fox Adventures has basically Andross just shows up at the end, auto-defeats and starts a carbon copy encounter of the There's no build-up. No structure that the game telegraphs as you're You don't get to fight the original main The lack of structure makes Andross appearing though it's exactly the same thing from You know, this episode isn't 'Team of They don't all have to be quite on the same Great casts of villains aren't only found Villains that have loose allegiances to a to write thanks to the opportunity they open Especially if they're the type of people written in shades of gray, a big cast of villains to jump ship - if not forever, at least for Like in Yakuza. Or 'Like a Dragon' I guess now. The series revolves around the Tojo Clan and Each game has a collection of major players kinds of shady stuff to reach their goals. The game is an over-the-top melodrama, and morals in one place, you're gonna trip over In Yakuza Zero, a plot hinging on the acquisition power struggle full of kidnapping, attempted and tons and tons of shirtless brawls while crimes. Oh, and your character is part of this whole are clean. Everyone's true allegiances and goals are and more often than not, the major players they're ostensibly on the same team. If you can help them reach their end, come If you can't, they'll flip on you without One scene might have you beating the crap he's taking a bullet for you out of sheer The cast are all villains of one sort or another, the twists and turns of one of the most gripping If that's all a little too morally ambiguous Sometimes your cast of villains doesn't No More Heroes pits you, Travis Touchdown, Everyone is ranked, and the only way to climb way. The structure of the game is very episodic, as you move rung by rung up the ladder. It's rare for the assassins you fight along That structure comes with some big advantages. It makes it easier for the developers to add One minute you're fighting a Cloud Strife and a harem of clone cheerleaders. There is a drawback, of course. A cast of villains with no relationship to difficult to keep a coherent story, but if and spectacle than a gripping narrative, that's The game's focus shifts mostly to Travis him. Also, you can have it both ways. No More Heroes sprinkles in some more important to tell a more traditional story. The contrast in moving from a zany, obviously dealt with before and might have a connection format from getting too monotonous and low-stakes. No matter their relationship, though, the USE all of your villains. A cast of villains is like a whole bunch of If you present a big group all at once, you're encountering them in some significant way. That might sound obvious, but not every game Back to Sonic for this one. Sonic Forces does a huge bait-and-switch with Eggman has taken over the world, with the side, along with all the heavy hitters from Metal Sonic. Shadow. Chaos. And everyone's favorite...Zavok The four returning villains are treated as fans hyped up on the nostalgia of old faces Zavok's fight is actually just a generic The final battle against Infinite is a rehash Two of the villains don't even get a boss Chaos is taken out in a cutscene, and Shadow real one though. Because the original one was an illusion. The combination of nostalgia-fueled hype and cast of villains in Sonic Forces makes for This is just scratching the surface, we haven't set, or escalating the importance of different and be informed by the game structure you that for a future episode. Head down to the comments and let's talk work together. Or how they work very badly together. A cast of villains can be incredibly fun to With an enormous range of motives, relationships, the structure of a game's plot, while being story pace needs it. No matter if they're a mook, a lieutenant, can form the backbone of your story. *chill vibes outro from Final Fantasy XIV*