Hi everyone, In this video we will see how we can set If you want to download the 3ds Max file, so Corona, please visit my site - margaritanikita.com For this tutorial I have downloaded Let me merge the object in 3ds Max, I will go to File - Reference - Asset Tracking know how to use the Asset Tracking, please Let me also go to the web and google Studio the stage, where the object will be placed, this we have our camera and a set of lights. First, I will create the backdrop. and randomly make it 1000cm by Then, I will add an Edit Poly to the Plane, select this Edge, hold the Shift Let me move this closer to our object. If we go back to the reference image, To do so, select this edge and click on and add some segments to make it look smoother. Just to be sure, we can also The backdrop is ready, let's also open set it to white and apply it to the backdrop. Next step is to set a camera. I will enable the Automatic vertical tilt, so that I can set the target lower than Make sure Show Safe Frames is enabled. Go to the Render Setup window Then make any necessary adjustments to the camera settings and position until you Personally, I use the Exposure Value. I will start we will adjust this value as needed. since there are no light sources So, the next step is to setup the lighting. I will make it approx 100 by 100cm. &amp; I will usually set it parallel to my camera, but there is the direction you want the shadows to have. I will use the Interactive method, so we can continue working on the scene. Let me select the camera, and oops started rendering the top viewport. viewport, select here the camera Now, no matter which viewport is active, So, I will go to the camera settings and Let me also go to the Render Setup and add the VRayLightMix and the VRayDenoiser. Let's now see a few things on What we see here is that the shadows are The size of the VRayLight affects the strength of 100 by 100 the shadows look diffuse. If we you see how sharp they become, but at That's because the size of the VRayLight In order for the size of the light not to Units. When we have the Default Units, then the while if we choose Luminous Power, then the So now, if I make it 100 by 100 or 10 Let's increase the Multiplier to 20000, and go even higher So, now you see how well defined the shadows are. If we make the light 100 by So, depending on the result you are For now, we only have 1 light casting on harsh shadows on this side of the object. light from the opposite side. is our Main Light, so let me rename it. mirror it and rename it to Fill light. This light is partially placed in front of our In order for the shape of the light not to settings and choose Invisible. For this list to get updated, we need to Stop the our list we see the main light and the fill light. As we said before the Fill light serves to make main light. So, it needs to be a subtle light. so that it doesn't create well defined shadows Let's turn back on the Main light. So now you can see that the Fill Be careful, as we don't want the Fill light all come from the Main light, The next step is to create a new light don't have these strong shadows we see here. I will rotate it to face the intensity of the light until Don't forget to stop and restart the To make our image brighter, we can either adjust and add the Exposure layer. &amp; then adjust the These are basically the 3 lights we need to set. called Rim light. Let me google it. and its purpose is to expose the Let's create a copy of the Backdrop Turn off all the other lights. Sometimes there is a bug, and it still casts light on it. So, I will delete Now it's fine. around with the position of this light and its I will enable back all lights and see this? It's a small detail, but it One final note. When we have reflective then we can add one more light. And If you take a close look to the metal This is the 3ds max environment. Our object is so it reflects the backdrop So, what we can do in cases like Open the cosmos browser and go to Download and drag one of the HDRIs. We will exclude the backdrop. So now you see that the reflections turned into What we will do is to decrease now it doesn't affect any longer the brightness of and increase it. The higher the value, That's all on how to set up studio If you are using the Corona renderer where you see VRayLights you will create CoronaLights using the Plane type. Thanks for watching! I will see you all in my next video.