(crowd clapping and cheering) - What a crowd, what a crowd. Thank you very much. I tell ya, I'm all right now. But last week I was a I mean last week I bought so far I lost three of my best ships. (audience laughs) Are you kiddin', last I bought a waterbed, there were two Cuban guys swimmin' in it lookin' for Florida. (audience laughs) I tell ya people are nuts ya know. My dentist too, another beauty. My dentist, he found a he holds up his arms. (audience laughs) I tell ya all I meet is wise guys. I checked into a hotel, I asked the bellhop to handle my bag. He started to feel up my wife. (audience laughs) I said to him, I said hey buddy who told with my wife? He said everybody. (audience laughs) I tell ya, my wife I I told her our kid is spoiled. She told me a lot of kids smell that way. (audience laughs) She's a lousy cook too. She can't cook at all. I leave dental floss in the kitchen, the roaches hang themselves. ( audience laughs) My wife she don't go for me either and I'm not a good lookin' guy. Halloween I open the front door, kids give me candy. (audience laughs) Are you kiddin', I know I'm ugly. My dog found out we look (audience laughs) I was an ugly kid too. My old man took me to the zoo. The old guy at the gate (audience laughs) I was a very ugly kid. Every time my old man wanted sex, my mother showed him my picture. (audience laughs) I was a very ugly kid. In my sandbox, the cat kept covering me (audience laughs) When I was a kid nobody was nice. I was six years old I found out there's no such thing as Alpo baby food. (audience laughs) I mean nobody was nice. My mother never breast fed me. She told me she liked me as a friend. (audience laughs) I mean I had it rough. I told my old man I'm sick and tired of running around in circles. He got mad. He nailed down my other foot. (audience laughs) I mean that's the story of my life. No respect. I don't get no respect It's not easy, it's not No respect at all. When I was born the doctor told my mother I did all I could but he (audience laughs) I don't get no respect from anyone. Well last week my house was on fire. My wife told the kids be (audience laughs) A little bit of Hollywood. That's my spot. Okay I'll see ya now. The music, the music it's beautiful.` (tonight show theme music) (audience cheering) Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Hey I'll do a few more minutes. - Yeah. (audience cheering) - How you doing? Oh this way. - Good to see you whatever. - How ya doing? All right? - I'm doing fine. - Good, good, good. - Haven't seen you for a while. - I've been around. - Yeah. - I've been keepin' busy. Been I'll be back in New for Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. And I'll be in the Riviera I'm going out to Green Bay, Wisconsin. The Carlton West, I'll be over there. And uh, Wisconsin. It's nice out there ya know. Ya got Nebraska's nice. Midwest is nice ya know. - You like the midwest, huh? - Yeah wish I came from I'd live in a nice small With a wooden frame house, with a screen door in back of the kitchen. My brother and sister (audience laughs) (Johnny laughs) - Dad was vice president of the bank worked there for 30 years. Very adjusted man dad. Never smokes, drinks, or gambles ya know. Then you read about these guys. One day they pick up an ax (audience laughs) Next thing the cops come around what happened here, He was a quiet man. But I've been bouncing around a lot been pluggin' my album. I've got a new album out No Respect - That's your album is it? - It's going real good. It's in the charts, a And did you hold up the backside too? You show 'em the back. Yeah that's a cute little thing there. - Now you understand about no respect. - You see that. (audience laughs) - I get no respect here I tell ya that. - Really? - Yeah, I got stuck the other day. I wanted to go sightseeing. They took me on a tour of (audience laughs) But that's on definitely isn't it. - Oh yeah definitely. (audience laughs) - No but I've been running Johnny, you know what I mean. - Really? - Oh you don't eat properly on the road. You're running around all the time. And it's tough to lose weight around a bit ya know. But I was much heavier, I was fat. Are you kidding. I was so fat when I got my shoes shined I had to take the guy's word for it. I was fat, I'll tell ya that. (audience laughs) I've been out with some fat girls too. One girl she was so fat and a card came out and (audience laughs) She was fat. - That is a big girl. - I remember how we met. She said to me, why I told her I didn't (audience laughs) She was a wild girl I tell ya. Ooh a very wild girl. You kiddin'. She made me French toast, her tongue got caught in the toaster. She was a wild girl. (audience laughs) No but I tell ya too No good to be too skinny. A guy died on my block last week. Was he skinny, ooh. - Skinny, yeah? - He was so skinny the a waiter. (audience laughs) No but skinny is better than fat. I'll tell ya that. Better for your health. That's what's important your health. Oh are you kiddin'. I'm not a kid anymore, And I know I'm gettin' old. I'm at the age now if I I figure it's number one (audience laughs) Take care of my health. I tell ya in fact I saw Doctor Vinnie Boombatz. - Vinnie Boombatz - I saw him last week. Had a little check up. I asked him if my heart was he told me not if I join in. (audience laughs) I tell ya Johnny it's tough to be funny when you're coming off drugs. I'll tell ya. (audience cheers) Tough, I'll tell ya, tough Johnny. I tell you though Johnny the I had a wonderful experience. I actually had a wonderful - Really? - I wish there had been someone That's all ya know. (audience laughs) No I was a kid Johnny. You do crazy things when I was a very green kid too. Very green kid. Remember the first time I was so confused I I dialed 555-1212. (audience laughs) I wish I was gay, I'd (audience laughs) Actually he's my second choice. (audience laughs) No offense. - All right. - And uh, so quiet I feel (audience laughs) Have a cigarette, okay? You don't mind do ya? - You should give that up. - I got a crazy doctor if I wanna stop chewing gum. So what the heck. (audience laughs) How long do you expect to be in Shanghai? (audience laughs) - You wanna talk about your movie? - Oh yeah, the movie come out. It was a big movie, big movie. It's a 843 pages. No it's a movie called Caddyshack. Fellas wrote Animal House wrote it. It opens Friday around the whole country and it's doing real - I hear you're very funny in it. - Yeah it came out real good. It was a good part. And I played a part of who invades nice sensitive country club and I don't belong in that country club and Ted Knight is, he and I don't get a long at It was a good movie. Chevy Chase is in it and Bill Murray, and a lot of nice people. Actually it's a low budget movie. Went to location by subway. (audience laughs) - We have a film clip. - Oh yeah we have a film clip too. - I just said that. - Hey I'm in the movies. - Can we take a look at it? - Okay we'll see what happens. This is the opening In this movie in the country club. - This is from Caddyshack. - Caddyshack. (bugle horn) - Hey kid, park my car. Get my bags, and put on some weight will ya? Hey Wang what's with the pictures? It's the parking lot come on will ya. I think this place is restricted Wang so don't tell 'em you're Jewish. Okay? Fine. Hey kid I'm Al Czervik I'm playing with Drew Scott today. This is my guest Mr. Wang, no offense. Oh give me a half dozen and set my friend up here Ya know, clubs, bags, Don't make the pants too tight you'll hurt his fortune cookie. Oh by the way, want one of those things that - Mr. Czervik sorry I didn't see you sir. - Oh how are ya sure, hey orange balls. I'll have a box of those. Give me a box of those naked lady tees and give me two of those, give me six of those. Hey I'll buy out the joint Oh this is the worst You buy a hat like this, I bet you get a free bowl of soup huh. Oh it looks good on you though. (laughter) (audience claps) - Personal foul. - Thank you very much. The movie is longer than that really. - Right. Is this your first picture? - No I made a movie years and it never got out of - I remember that picture now. - It's around, you remember that? - Yeah. - You're the one who saw it. - It did not do well in the box office. - It was big in Paris believe it or not. With French titles. That was the end of that movie I guess. It's around still I guess. - You gonna make some more pictures? - Well I've had numerous offers. I don't know what I'm gonna do. I like live entertainment. Ya know what I mean. Movies are a director's But I was brought up in clubs ya know like Dominics Black and Blue Room, Theresa's Fun House, Where you have to really go at it live. Carmine's Cave all those Where you would get an immediate feedback. - Reggie's Ravioli Room? All of those - Reggie's Ravioli Room. Hey you do these things pretty good. You're all right ya know. - Let me do this. We'll be right back with Arnold Dvoracek