IMAGE AND SOUND DIGITALLY RESTORED MAY WE FOREVER HONOR THE HEROES MOSFILM Breaking news in north-eastern France. Watch this trophy newsreel, captured by The footage shows the advance They moved along mountain roads But the great German Army struck an unexpected blow 80,000 of them The enemy has been driven And our troops continue If we are to believe the Allies in trouble. Comrade Stalin, the Anglo-American Read me Churchill's letter again. &quot;It is General Eisenhower's to know in outline as this obviously affects I shall be grateful whether we can count on the Vistula front, during January, you may care to mention. Winston Churchill.&quot; A delicate and cunning Forced by circumstance, How are the preparations going Our strike forces have already been strategically positioned to attack. Nine thousand tanks, seventy thousand guns When can we begin? Front Commanders Zhukov, that the end of January would be End of January? And if we take Churchill's and move the start We'll have to do in fog, or bad weather. - And without air support... inform Zhukov, about the new date On January 12, 13, and 14, 1945 the troops of the 1st, the 1st and 4th Ukrainian Fronts, assisted by the ships and the Ukrainian partisan units, launched an offensive in the general direction of Berlin! LIBERATION FILM FOUR Screenwriters: OSKAR KURGANOV Director: Director of Photography: Production Designer: Composer: Sound: Unit Manager: Story Editor: Costume Designer: Make-up: Editor: Pyrotechnician: Camera Operators: Set Designers: Gaffer: COMPOSITING Camera Operators: Set Designers: F. KRASNY Modelmaker: V. SMIRNOV Assistant Directors: E. AVAKOVA, Assistant Camera Operators: Yu. BAZAROV, Assistant Designers: Assistant Managers: S. POZDNYAKOV, A. FRIDMAN, E. CHERNYKH Lead Military Consultant: Military Consultants: Colonel (GDR) J. WITZLEBEN Colonel (Poland) Production Manager: CAST Zhukov: MIKHAIL ULYANOV Tsvetayev: N. OLYALIN Orlov: B. SEIDENBERG Dorozhkin: V. NOSIK Neustroyev: V. KORENEV Stalin: BUKHUTI ZAKARIADZE Roosevelt: S. JASKIEVICZ Antonov: V. STRZHELCHIK Rokossovsky: V. DAVYDOV Rybalko: D. FRANKO Lelyushenko: A. AFANASYEV Malinin: G. MIKHAILOV Shatilov: A. ROMASHIN Hitler: FRITZ DIEZ Keitel: G.M. HENNEBERG Eva Braun: A. WALLER Bormann: I. PAPE Wolff: J. KLOSE Willi: G. STAIGER WITH THE GROUP THE MOSCOW MILITARY DISTRICT, VREMYA The flank attack shook all the German and forced the enemy to begin withdrawing On January 17, units of the 1st Polish Army COMMANDER OF THE 1ST BELORUSSIAN Artillery attack! Let's wait it out here, Marshal. Chief of the 741st Rifle Regiment HQ Where's your commander? The regiment commander is... resting, Marshal. Wake him up. Yes, Marshal. Lieutenant Colonel... Lieutenant Colonel, get up. Lieutenant Colonel! - Lieutenant Colonel, get up! - Your name? Report on the situation. The situation... Our troops are advancing, Where exactly? Where are they advancing? On the western outskirts. Here's our HQ chief. - May I report, Marshal? The enemy is holding the line They've fended off Battalion 3 is moving to the cemetery I see. From now on, you, Major, And you, Lieutenant Colonel, will be his deputy. I think that will be fair. THE FIRST TANK ARMY Move ahead as quickly as possible. LIEUTENANT GENERAL KATUKOV Keep moving! My Fuhrer, the time has come an armistice of 100 days. This will enable us and decimate the Russians We have made contact He represents Eisenhower's HQ. I know. They'll demand a peaceful surrender I cannot agree to that. We shall prove to them... that we can still deliver Guderian, what's the situation Things have changed drastically between the Vistula and the Oder. What do you mean, Guderian? My Fuhrer, approached the Oder Just 60 kilometers from Berlin? This is treason! Betrayal and treason! For 150 years no enemy soldier For 150 years, Guderian! My Fuhrer. My Fuhrer, I propose to strike A counterattack? Show me. We'll create a powerful strike force and attack Zhukov's army Keitel. You said an armistice in the West will enable us to amass Yes, my Fuhrer. Himmler, who will General Wolff. SWITZERLAND War can be compared The most dangerous moment What's awaiting you Bolshevism in Europe? The Russian troops are only while the Americans are - 500. It is along this path that we can ...thus, HQ has approved our decision. COLONEL GENERAL MALININ In the next six days, bring up the rear echelons, replenish supplies and two allowances of ammunition and capture Berlin in a So... Capture Berlin in 15 days. Alright. Draw up an order for the front. Yes, Marshal. Allow me to report Go ahead. Our aerial reconnaissance has spotted major tank moving through Pomerania. Army intelligence reports that the 2nd and 11th German Armies, operating against our right flank, already comprise 16 infantry and up to 7 tank divisions. - Is that all? How are things around Kustrin? GENERAL SOKOLOVSKY Berzarin's forces continue to battle The divisions are down to The Germans keep counterattacking. The Luftwaffe Where are our fighter aircraft, COLONEL GENERAL RUDENKO the Germans use Berlin's airports, which have concrete runways, and our aircraft are based washed out by the rains. Each takeoff carries great risk. General Oriol, how many tanks LIEUTENANT GENERAL ORIOL And many brigades Reinforcements are slow to come. Repair bases have fallen Twenty days of such a rapid advance GENERAL GALADZHEV are with the units at the front, The soldiers really are But, nevertheless, the troops need a rest. You're free to go, Generals. Yes, Comrade Zhukov. The situation is extremely precarious. Our troops are fighting And the Germans... are pushing to Moscow. They have only Do you not think that by the nature they might be running out of steam? They are stretched out They've lost their penetrating power. Their rear echelons are far behind. Now is the perfect time May I, Comrade Zhukov? I prepared the order There will be no Berlin offensive, Comrade Malinin. Good decision, Comrade Zhukov. I knew you would make it. What do you suggest? I've invited General Katukov, He's waiting in reception. - Call him in. Good morning, Marshal. What are your plans, tank-man? My plans are to take Berlin, Marshal. Seventy kilometers - just 2 days' march for my army. Come, look at the map. Put yourself in Guderian's place. You have 23 divisions, of which 7 are tank and motorized. Zhukov is advancing on Berlin. Rokossovsky is 150 km General Katukov, what would you do I would try to cut off with a tank strike That's right. That's right. That's Guderian's only chance. So here are I order you to... turn over your positions and move by forced march To the region of Arnswalde. Yes, Marshal. Headquarters! YALTA The Soviet Army continues along the 700-kilometer front. General Chernyakhovsky's troops Marshal Rokossovsky's troops from Germany's central regions. Marshal Zhukov's troops Marshal Konev's troops Likely enemy actions: in an effort to defend Berlin the Germans will try at the Oder River. There, they have set up defenses deployed from Germany, as well as from We estimate that up to 40 additional on the Soviet front. A favorable situation has emerged for the Allied forces Perhaps General Marshall, will tell us about In the past few days Eisenhower At the present moment, and the 9th American Army are preparing to attack. If we are successful we can move our and then on to Berlin. How far are your troops Around 600 kilometers. And our troops? Sixty kilometers, Comrade Stalin. The time has come for us Gentlemen, your allotted time is up. I hope you were sincere about the coordination Have you any real doubt Yes, I have, Mr. Roosevelt. About you being in contact And not only in contact, I would even say a conspiracy. A conspiracy? With Hitler's agent. I'm afraid you're using This is Allen Dulles. And this is Hitter's agent, I can assure you, Mr. Marshal, that this meeting was And yet, it was behind our back. We should not lose trust As long as we are alive, We shall not allow dangerous But in ten years, or maybe even sooner... A new generation will come that will not have experienced all that we have. What will happen then? We've gathered here to secure peace for at least... 50 years. Or am I... naive to think so, Mr. President? That's actually so, Mr. Marshal. Well, then. The most important condition is the unity of our three powers. If the Russians take Berlin, it will create great I believe we should advance on Berlin Troops of the 1st Belorussian Front, having turned northwards, repulsed the enemy's and, having smashed launched an offensive on March 1 sending the 1st and 2nd the 3rd Shock Army and the 1st Polish Army toward the Baltic Sea. Are you musicians... Art belongs to the people. Where's your commander? Cycling around over there. I'm mastering new equipment! Captain Vasilyev, Lieutenant Dombrowski, On orders to accompany your tanks. That's the hitch. We took the village... - and then... Hold on. Pelka! [speaking Polish] He says he saw fuel tanks OK, Lieutenant, - Of course. Take the bikes and check. Go and show him. I said he might not have a lady yet, I need to march ahead. Catch up. We will. There it is. Well? Give me your mess tin. - What for? We tank men Death to the Nazi invaders. Well, will it do? It'll do. - I know nothing about fuel. What am I, a tank? Tastes like pure alcohol. - Guess we'll have to keep looking. - Ready for another? Workers of the world, unite! How about a song? Yes, yes. Oh brave Khas-Bulat... - Your hut is so poor... - Cultural differences. Ours! Girls, they're ours! - Where are you from? Some are French, some Czech. Come on, girls, come out! Don't cry, dears, don't cry. [speaking Polish] Alright. - Paris... Our dear brothers, We thought you never would. Girls, ladies, mademoiselles, Come on out, Europe! Rot Front! - Ah, Spain? - What do you mean, Germany? I'm not your comrade. We antifascists! - [speaking German] OK then. He looks antifascist. All those who survived to the struggle against - Rot Front! Let's ask the Red Army sergeant You must speak. - Me? OK, sure. [speaking Polish] My antifascist comrades, former prisoners. Go home! Home. [speaking German] Well... That's all. Found it! - What? Wait! Wait! MOSCOW Hello, Comrade Stalin. Hello, Comrade Stalin. Are you aware Based on the information we are aware. You are aware of nothing. Comrade Konev. Read the report &quot;According to our sources, has planned an operation before the Soviet Army does. Forces under the command plan to deliver the main strike along the shortest route separating most British forces The possibility of Nazis for the Allied forces to enter Berlin So, who will capture Berlin? Will we? Or will the Allies? The Berlin operation will be unprecedented. On the outskirts of Berlin, four German armies, We have never taken such a large and strongly fortified It's an enormous area. The streets, alleys, collectively they comprise A continuous defense system Thus the Front Command decided to attack the enemy so as to stun We have concentrated 4,000 tanks and self-propelled guns, 5,000 aircraft. I don't need to tell you But in order to completely overwhelm we propose two hours before dawn, in the light of 140 May I, Marshal? Please. Throughout the war, we never launched This is due to the complexity And the searchlights... The enemy artillery May I, Marshal? Please. I believe that the searchlights The enemy will see Who else believes so? - I do. I do. Let's take a break then. And meet - Is everything ready? Good. Need a repeat, My Fuhrer, I must inform you repelled our counterattacks General Dietrich's 6th Panzer Army Dietrich, you've left Hungary and now you want My Fuhrer, the 6th Panzer Army... Enough, Dietrich! Gunsche! Rip off his decorations! Get out of here! Guderian, this is the result of your You need a rest, Guderian. I'm appointing General Krebs as Bormann, tell Himmler to hang all The Oder will decide but that of all Europe! My Fuhrer, congratulations. Just like your horoscope predicted. Pass this news on to everybody! Champagne for everyone! Roosevelt is dead! More light! Give us more light! April 16 Battalion! At the enemy trenches! Fragmentation shells! Sights 120! Deflection 50-20! Volley! Fire! Fire! MARSHAL KONEV have breached the enemy defenses! Rybalko's and Lelyushenko's tank Zhukov is still having difficulties. Still trying to break the defenses. Could we not... send Zhukov's tanks through the breach towards Berlin... via your front? Comrade Stalin, that would take time Besides, there's no need for it. We can turn both of our Alright. I agree. - Put me through to Rybalko. This is why people say that tank That must be your fifth cup, Are you counting? &quot;Thunder&quot; here. General, Yes, Marshal? What are you doing, Comrade Rybalko? Well, you see, I'm fighting for... We have new objectives. What? Wait a second, Marshal. Tell them to stop firing Yes, Marshal. Your orders are to turn your tank Is that clear? Yes, Marshal. Push on to Berlin. Turn the army to Berlin, yes sir! That's a real job! Lelyushenko. COMMANDER OF THE 4TH TANK ARMY Yes, &quot;Maple&quot; here. General, Yes, Marshal. Yes. Yes. I understand. Yes, Marshal. General, we got the little bastard. Why were you shooting, How old are you? Fifteen. You got a mother? Take him home. Yes, General. We've been ordered BERLIN Gentlemen, allow me my friend Eva Braun. She has been living in seclusion But in these difficult times, she has chosen to share my fate. My Fuhrer, happy birthday! I'm happy that all of us, the Thank you. My Fuhrer, your loyal SS troops On this day, as always, only not in a parade, My Fuhrer, I'm happy and proud I'm here with you in Berlin. My Fuhrer, today the Reich's movie that was made before the war Perhaps we, too, by watching this historic film? My Fuhrer, the Russian artillery My Fuhrer, Goodbye, my Fuhrer, I'm off to join General Wenck ON APRIL 21, TROOPS OF THE 1ST Stop! We've been hit, Captain! Damn it! Just our luck. - How long will repairs take? A break for lunch, Captain. Dorozhkin, go find the owners. Reassure them, and all that. Freeze! Soldier's greetings. &quot;Hands up&quot; and such. Not verstehen, old man. Put your hands down. I was just trying Put your hands down, I said. Stay calm. Everything's fine. Dorozhkin, where are you? Captain, I've carried out your order I see... They sure look happy. We're sorry, A fine Russian appetizer, old man. What do you think? What did he say? Do we drink or not? Hold on. Just a minute. OK... &quot;Forcing a water obstacle...&quot; &quot;Hands up...&quot; Hel-lo. Hello. Heal-th. To your health! It means &quot;To your health&quot;. Why the long face, old man? Ma'am. I don't usually drink. But... A toast to the ladies... You must. Excuse us, we have to step out. What's going on? - Looks like a counterattack. On April 25, the 4th Tank Army, entered Potsdam. On the same day, Bogdanov's 2nd Tank Army quickly advanced COMMANDER OF THE 2ND TANK ARMY Stop! Stop! Stop! Why did you pull back? Why did you stop? - Where's the battalion commander? I'm Lieutenant Kruglikov, They're firing Faustpatroners. Can we send the infantry ahead Faustpatroners, eh? Where am I Listen. I'll stay.... I'll stay right here I don't care how, Is that clear? Then go ahead. Are you a student, Lieutenant? - Where are you from? I was in college, Doesn't matter now. You'll graduate soon enough, now. Unless you want to be a general? - General, we brought sappers. Sergeant Ryazhentsev, Listen, Sergeant, My tanks have stopped, look. Strike those devils so hard, - We'll try, General. - Yes. Get up guys! Go! Hey, guys... It's a zoo, a real zoo! Hold fire. Antelopes! My goodness! Just look! Why? Follow me! - What are you looking at? - Should I shoot? Only the two-legged ones. Pass through the lions. - What does that mean? That's really something! Look at him. He's seen it all, he knows it all. - He's lived 300 years. Sergeant, come here. I'm headed to a medical station Sapper platoon commander - What's that? After we drove the Nazis I heard some crying. Then I spotted her in the bushes. She let herself be caught. We shared my medical kit. Please, let me take her or she'll die here. Alright. Tell them Marshal Konev Our ancestors, after all. - Yes, yes. Restoration Producer: (c) MOSFILM CINEMA CONCERN, 2020 End of Film Four