What do Nosferatu, Vladislav from &quot;What We Do in the Shadows,&quot; Lestat from &quot;Interview with the Vampire&quot;, and Alucard from the eponymous manga have in common? They all have the same real-life inspiration. And it's not Count Dracula, but rather Petar Blagojevich -- a simple Serbian peasant from the 18th century. It all started when, after his death, his body decomposed in an unusual way. Petar Blagojevich - the ghoul that started it all. Today, vampires are one of the most popular mythical characters in pop culture. Major films are still being released -- like &quot;Renfield&quot; with Nicolas Cage in 2023, and a remake of &quot;Nosferatu&quot; starring Willem Dafoe in 2024. &quot;Nosferatu&quot; is a unique case of a black-and-white film from a century ago remaining interesting to modern audiences. In total, over 270 films have been made about Dracula alone. were just a local legend among Eastern Slavs and Balkan peoples. International interest in the phenomenon was sparked by the case of Petar Blagojevich. In his youth, Blagojevich was a hajduk -- a rebel fighting against Ottoman rule, but later retired to become a simple farmer in a Serbian village. In 1725, Blagojevich died, and strange things began happening in the village. Soon, nine of his fellow villagers died, and all of them reported before their deaths that the late Petar had appeared to them, laid on their chests, and choked them. The remaining villagers were so terrified they wanted to abandon the village and run. Just a few years earlier, Serbia had shifted from Ottoman to Habsburg control, and the region was under special oversight. Austrian military official Ernst Frombald was sent to Kisiljevo. Together with the local priest, he was tasked with officially exhuming Blagojevich's body. The exhumation revealed a horrifying sight: Petar's cheeks were reddish, his body fuller than in life, fangs protruded from his mouth, and his nails and hair had grown. Frombald wrote: &quot;I saw some fresh blood in his mouth, which according to the common observation, he had sucked from the people killed by him&quot;. The heart of the &quot;vampire&quot; was stabbed with a stake, after which he emitted a sigh. The forensic report stated: &quot;From the ears and mouth of the vampire not only did much fresh blood flow, but other wild signs occurred (which, out of high respect, I omit)&quot;. This likely referred to an erection, which the village priest and imperial emissary observed on the corpse. Today, we understand that signs of decomposition depend on the stage and weather conditions. A bloated body may appear fuller, the gases can cause blood to pool under the skin, giving skin a healthy pinkish color, and those same gases can produce sounds when the body is punctured, especially if the air escapes through the airways. But back then, people didn't know this, and the details of the event aligned well with local legends about vampires. It was during this time that Frombald heard the word &quot;upyr&quot; from the villagers, though he distorted it in his report, turning it into &quot;vampire&quot;. His report made it into a major Austrian newspaper and became a sensation. An exotic story from newly conquered lands! Lutheran pastor Michael Ranft wrote a treatise intriguingly titled &quot;On the Chewing of the Dead in their Tombs&quot;. His ideas were picked up by French theologian Augustin Calmet, and Calmet's work was then debated by none other than Voltaire. In Serbia, this all sparked a &quot;vampire hysteria&quot;. Villagers began exhuming the graves of their fellow townspeople en masse, searching for vampires. The imperial administration administration had to urgently intervene. The situation became so serious that Empress Maria Theresa sent her personal physician to investigate, who concluded that vampires did not exist. The Empress then issued a law banning the exhumation of graves, putting an end to the hysteria. But by then, the vampire had already become a part of pan-European culture -- a political issue, a character in books, and a topic of philosophical debate. Demonic creatures that drink blood have existed in folklore as long as civilization itself. The Sumerians called such beings &quot;utukku&quot; and &quot;edimmu&quot;. The Assyrians believed in the demoness Lilith, who seduced young men and drank their blood. The Arabs believed that ghouls lived in abandoned tombs, ruins, and graves -- corpse-eaters whose bloodlust is mentioned in the tales of &quot;One Thousand and One Nights.&quot; The ancient Greeks believed that the goddess of night and witchcraft, Hecate, kept two bloodsuckers in her retinue. The first was the demoness Empusa, with donkey legs, who drank the blood of sleeping men. The second was Mormo, who drank the blood of disobedient children -- the belief in him persists to this day. The Romans feared the bird-like demon Strix, which resembled an owl and fed on human flesh and blood. Vampires also appear in the folklore of the Aztecs, Chinese, Irish, and many other peoples. But the modern vampire originates specifically from Slavic legends. The inhabitants of the Balkans, southern Russia, Belarus, and Ukraine believed that the earth might simply reject some of the dead. These were called &quot;unclean dead&quot;. This category included suicides, criminals, the unbaptized, as well as those who died gruesome deaths -- for example, people who froze to death in the woods or on the road. These corpses were buried at crossroads, on the borders of fields -- essentially, in liminal spaces outside the churchyard. Sorcerers who died were also considered unclean dead. After death, they could rise from their graves to drink the blood of their fellow villagers. In addition to this, vampires were believed to cause calamities -- especially hail and drought, livestock death, and various diseases. However, Bram Stoker, the creator of &quot;Dracula&quot;, based his work not on Slavic, but on Romanian folklore. As he himself states in &quot;Dracula&quot;: &quot;Every known superstition in the world is gathered into the horseshoe of the Carpathians, as if it were the centre of some sort of imaginative whirlpool&quot;. Indeed, Romanian vampires are fascinating. There are many types, but two main ones are strigoi and striga. A strigoi is a &quot;living&quot; vampire, one that you are born as. This can be the child of incest or a child conceived during major religious holidays. It was believed that if a woman went outside at night during her pregnancy with an uncovered head or drank tainted water, her child would become a strigoi. A baby weaned too early, or a seventh son, was also doomed to become a strigoi. The same fate awaited children born in the forest or cursed by a midwife. Thinness, red hair, bald spots, and a hidden little tail are all telltale signs of strigoi. It was believed that they could transform into animals, but not into bats -- rather, into cats or dogs, bulls, roosters, or even cockroaches. There's a curious legend that strigoi love to fight each other for dominance. A human can join their fights and even win -- by using cleverness, like bringing a saber to the fight. A striga is a &quot;dead&quot; vampire, often formed from a corpse over which an animal -- such as a cat, dog, chicken, or mouse -- has passed. Striga can also arise from unbaptized infants or those born in secrecy and buried outside the churchyard. They rise from their graves at midnight, wandering around, sometimes even dragging their coffins behind them. Much like the Slavic &quot;upyr&quot; (ghoul), they spread cholera and ruin livestock. When a striga returns to their former home, they first suck the souls of their family through the windows, then enter and drink their blood, before finally devouring their hearts. The bodies of Romanian undead do not decompose. One Romanian story vividly describes how villagers dug up an old man who had become a striga -- he sat cross-legged, red and content, having devoured nearly all his relatives. To prevent a dead person from turning into a striga, many methods were used. For instance, the corpse's nostrils and ears would be plugged, and their eyelids glued shut so that they couldn't see or hear the devil. The dead were often tightly bound, and a spike driven through their heart. If the deceased had bad reputation in the village, their head might be chopped off and placed at their feet -- just in case. The Romanians were so inventive that they even came up with their own Hogwarts for vampires. In Bram Stoker's Dracula, a magic school called Scholomance is mentioned, hidden in the mountains above Lake Hermannstadt, ruled by the devil himself, who takes every tenth student as payment. Count Dracula was one of the students there, &quot;and there was no knowledge in his time that he had not mastered&quot;. Graduates of the Scholomance are known as solomonars -- powerful sorcerers in Romanian folklore. They ride dragons, control the weather, communicate with nature spirits, understand the languages of animals and birds, and read ancient books. Yet, attitudes toward them are contradictory: they are not so much evil as they are chaotic. Solomonars can bring storms or drive them away, live by their own mysterious laws, shun wealth, and resemble a monastic order. But there's also a distinctly dark side: if the proper rites are not performed over a deceased solomonar, they could become a striga. After all this, it might seem like the journey from Petar Blagojevic to the Dracula we know was long, but surprisingly, it wasn't. The vampire story took root in the fertile soil of Romanticism. As early as the 18th century, Goethe wrote the poem &quot;The Bride of Corinth&quot;, intertwining the vampire theme with a love story. In the early 19th century, Lord Byron became the prototype of the new vampire -- an aristocratic figure full of &quot;dark and brooding egoism.&quot; Interestingly, this new literary monster was born on the same day and in the same company as Frankenstein's monster. In 1816, known as &quot;the year without a summer&quot;, Byron and several friends were vacationing at a villa in Switzerland. The weather was terrible, and Byron suggested that everyone write a mystical story. That day, Mary Shelley began her novel &quot;Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus&quot;, while Byron came up with the plot of a vampire story. He later abandoned the idea, but his personal physician, John Polidori, remembered it, and three years later published &quot;The Vampyre&quot;, whose protagonist was a true &quot;Byronic hero&quot; and a precursor to all romantic undead figures. Bram Stoker's Dracula, published 78 years later, solidified the image of the vampire as an aristocrat with a horrifying secret, superior to mortals. Stoker also used another key element, though it was not his invention -- sexualizing the vampire. Shortly before this, the gothic novella &quot;Carmilla&quot; was published, where a female vampire seduces a young noblewoman. From this point, vampires became symbols of an unchecked thirst for power and lust, embodying decadence. In essence, these creatures became the perfect metaphor for the dark impulses of the European aristocracy, which is what made them so appealing to readers. might seem too blunt: Voltaire spoke of speculators and stockbrokers as vampires, and Marx wrote about &quot;the vampiric nature of capitalism&quot;. But the image of the vampire evolved with society, reflecting the times. For instance, in the 1931 movie &quot;Dracula&quot;, Bela Lugosi only bit women's necks -- the writers instinctively understood the sexual subtext and wanted to highlight it. Later, vampires underwent various postmodernistic transformations: there was the black vampire in &quot;Blacula&quot;, and countless parodies like &quot;What We Do in the Shadows&quot;. Thrillers gave way to love dramas -- ranging from &quot;Twilight&quot; to Jim Jarmusch's &quot;Only Lovers Left Alive&quot;. In Viktor Pelevin's novel &quot;Empire V&quot;, the vampire is depicted as a symbiosis between a person and a &quot;tongue&quot;, a mystical entity that grants its host superpowers -- most notably the ability to control glamour and discourse. The character of each era can be understood by looking at how vampires are portrayed in any given decade, which makes the upcoming Nosferatu remake all the more intriguing. Stoker was very fortunate with Dracula's prototype. The Wallachian ruler Vlad Tepes, not without reason, earned the nickname &quot;The Impaler.&quot; He was a brutal and vengeful leader, infamous for his gruesome executions, and he also was a knight of the so-called Order of the Dragon. While it was simply a knightly order, to an English writer like Stoker, it must have seemed like exotic eastern mysticism. Especially considering that Stoker learned about Tepes from the eccentric Hungarian Turcologist Armin Vambery, who was secretly a British intelligence agent. It gets even better -- Tepes suffered from haemolacria, a condition that causes one to literally cry tears of blood. Such a figure was a treasure trove for any storyteller. Though, in reality, Dracula wasn't particularly exceptional compared to other Balkan rulers of that era. Or, as a character in &quot;What We Do in the Shadows&quot; says -- &quot;Life was tough back then&quot;. compared to real-life vampires -- the 20th-century serial killers who drank their victims' blood. For example, Richard Chase from the U.S. believed he was ill and could only be cured by drinking human blood and eating fresh animal organs -- much like Renfield from Dracula. Meanwhile, the German Fritz Haarmann, who worked as a secret agent for the police, used his position to find victims. He would take them into his home, and when they let their guard down, he would bite through their throats, killing 27 people this way. In both criminals' cases, there was a twisted sexual aspect to the crimes. At one time, humanity used vampire legends to tame its collective Shadow -- to confront, sublimate, and even humanize violent and sexual urges. After all, modern vampire films are often dramas about human emotions or comedies. But sometimes, the Shadow resurfaces. Stoker wrote of Dracula: &quot;The vampire who lives among us is as strong as twenty men. He is aided by necromancy... he is cruel, more than cruel, he is the devil himself, and he has no heart.&quot; But perhaps he was referring to the monster within us. Humanity has not yet tamed the Dracula within.