- These are kids that and have a very big brain. Like this kid. He wanted to go outside &quot;You can't step a foot outside&quot;. That's exactly what he did. Both his feet are inside, Absolutely fine. Look at this. The bottom drawer has and his parents have There's no way he but wait a second, The bottom drawer's (bell ringing) - [Woman] When I tried - Okay. Oh, love a bit of a Among Us. What the heck? (upbeat music) It's freaking reactor She's just been That mom's never These kids have to pretend and write all about it. So this very smart If you've watch the films, you know that all he says is.. - I am Groot. - So all this kid has to do was write, &quot;I am and a whole page of I am Groots. Easiest homework he's You've gotta write a letter &quot;Dear mom, I was forced to Glad you're having Here we've got but what's that on the table? Students in this school are from their phone. So, this guy's come along, plugged in his headphones. That is one way to listen This is adorable. Kids on the PC, but why is And actually, how does she The mom asked &quot;Why is the The kid says &quot;To keep &quot;It's my turn on the computer&quot;. To be fair, I ain't risking That's gonna hurt. &quot;Mom, I just wanted to &quot;wouldn't be I guess. &quot;I'll be waiting for my &quot;Love Joshua&quot; Mate, Joshua's have - [Girl] Go in, bro. If you walk through If you walk through that door, if you walk through Wow. (laughing) - Look, he didn't walk. That is a very Why are these The kid was told, go and put So, they literally put them I mean, technically I see kids are getting Oh my gosh. Imagine asking your because you're in a and he pulls out this. I don't think even (clapping) That's amazing. This may look like but apparently it's not. This kid's taking it and to eat in class. Hey, look, if you get this is one way There's only one I wonder why that is? Mom said you can't eat them all. So if you leave one, Technically, we You can't get annoyed at us. This person is at the arcade and is scoring He's not. He's scoring. All you got to do, is make the basket shake and it's giving him a score. What the? How is that? How is he? Work this out before These lads was told they So got around it This kid just said, &quot;Screw it&quot;. And still wore shorts. What you're looking at here, it's one of the most you've ever seen. Some sticky tape, a banana. This is quite magical. I hope he got top Although that banana's stuck on a wall. What the? Bruh. We are in the future. This kid is the - [Woman] That's smart. - [Woman 2] That is crazy. I would be so impressed How do you make your Put Sonic inside, and everything's gonna Don't actually do this. It could break your PC. Put bottles in the toilet, or put your shoes Both these kids have I'm in shock. I've never even thought of Wait, what? - [Boy] (indistinct) goofy. - How many fries? - [Boy] Did you really and say, &quot;Can I get a - That works? (guy laughing) But what, you just Okay, this kid's got She wants to continue gaming. Don't we all? But also gets thirsty. So, made a water that goes around her whilst gaming. (clapping) I need one of these. This kid's emailed his teacher. &quot;Is it possible for He spelt grade wrong, that &quot;Down a couple of percent?&quot; I assume this was &quot;89.41 is too close &quot;I don't wanna show &quot;knowing it's that close. &quot;If it was like at 85%, &quot;they'd understand that my So, this kids asked for The teacher moved It's the best Hit the like button may move your grade, up a You never know. (playful music) Here's five in a box. (playful music) (laughing) They what? You just lift it off, you're outta there. I don't about you, This kid using yellow, has created a Starburst hot dog. That looks incredible. I'll take one, please. Holy moly. What am I looking at? This kid was only of paper for a test. This is the most and well divided This kid is gonna be a genius. Okay, what you got? Circle's not meant Off comes the lid. Hey look, it works. Another genius What is going on with this kid? He's outside gaming, laptop on the table. His parents told 'cause it's too So, he took the games outside. You can't stop him from gaming. - My son is a genius. - He has installed a - What? - Did you hear it? - Yeah. - So that he can tell me - Oh. - He's a genius. - Let's have a look. There's the doorbell. This kid is smart. Take a look at this picture. Looks like a normal Now, take a look at this. Kid printed out a picture stuck the camera in front of it. He can have a house party. His parents would never know. No bicycle, blading, skating boarding, or scooter riding. But what about an Omni cycle? Wait, what are these Unicycle. I knew, I knew the word. No rules are broken here. I think we may that has one upped, hover This guy's got seven grass He's taken things What is this? Kid was told he could So, literally ate That's disgusting. Who's gonna eat the - All right, if you - Okay. - To go in this glass and I'll But here's the catch. I'm gonna turn the - Okay. a way to get this while keeping this All right? - That's what I like to see. But, and you can't. I was about to say you - You didn't say that. - You didn't let me. You didn't even gimme (laughing) - He messed up. He didn't tell - The (indistinct) scraping. Come on now. So you gotta figure This glass can't move and So like you gotta think. - She's still giving So you can't touch (rattling ball) Oh my.. (rattling ball) - That's not .. Dad, you're losing $100 mate. Just give up now. look at that. That is a face of a man, &quot;Miss, I can't &quot;There's a bear in the way.&quot; He just draw a giant so he wouldn't These are getting If your parents say you can fruit snacks, for example, but it comes in a double pack. That is how you get double I mean, technically it's You know what I mean? Brainstorm. What do you like to do with I like to move it, move it. I like to move it, move it. I like to move it, move it. I like to move it. I hope he got points for this. When your five year old... (toddler talking indistinctly) - If you can spell bathing suit, then you can have a new one. - No way. B-A-T-H-I - N-G S-U-I-T - Whoa, I couldn't even do that. We thought hover boarding was good for just cutting grass. Oh no, you can use it and never have to Lemonade, which is going 25 cents, organic $3, grass fed and This little kid, it's I'll help this kid out, for everyone that I'll buy you some So make sure you subscribe. We can all have When you don't want but you just wanna watch put your head in a We've even got some snacks Although you're not with your head in the box. (laughing) How genius are these We've now got someone and a skateboard. Wonder which is faster? This guy, or the guy on a We need to have a race and see. This kid's not allowed which it's not. And he's not allowed his which it's not. The best of both worlds We've got ourself &quot;Sorry, because &quot;of nothing&quot;. Absolutely nothing. I don't think the parents Sorry, no that's for sure. First they're eating half grapes and now they're eating Honestly at this point, Go on. Let them do it. UNO, wait, wait, This is genius. Hair brushes have than I thought. You'll never have to shuffle This kid is asleep but it was planned. They got some chalk, drew out a pillow and I don't think it's but hey, if it makes them then go for it. If you're wondering why watching the TV and have they're not allowed boys and So, they're on You love to see it. And the mom told the kid, We've got chicken Cinnamon rolls, sushi rolls, bread rolls, pizza rolls. I didn't even realize food It's a bonus question What country owns Greenland? It's not Greenland. They wrote &quot;Not Greenland&quot;. I mean, you literally and they got a point It's not Greenland. Yo, what is this set up? The lads are in the pool, but you're not allowed so they've got the biggest I don't know how they've but that is incredible. Yo, yo, yo, this This person is parked illegally. I mean, I don't So, they've given So, when the ticket they think they've and don't give them a ticket. Never thought of this before. I definitely won't be trying it. I promise. This looks awesome. This kid was allowed and he nailed it. Is there marshmallows This kid. I'd buy your desserts mate. This is, if you're wondering in the dog bowl, the mom said &quot;Get a jar of water and It's exactly what he did. You didn't say it had Dog is not gonna be But I don't think he's gonna Bruh. Is this girl Spider Woman? Oh, she's made a hammock. That's incredible. I thought for a second, she was like dangling This says, present not Big X. You've just given them, a load of batteries. Hey look, you always You never know this is The kid scratches the dog's back and the dog scratches his. It's an infinite loop It's so cute. This is sick. I always love remote and this dad has got a boat and is putting chips in it, to drive them out to their That is an awesome dad. Look at that, he's loving life. I wanna be that kid right now. (making eating sounds) Oh my goodness. They weren't allowed So, they used sticky notes. Can't tell if that's the or the most horrific but it's certainly arty. I've gotta give it to you. What the heck's going on here? Apparent you can bring your but they've gotta be carried. So this person's got and put their Husky in it. I don't think you'll ever see Look kids aren't the only This dog's a genius too. He saw the ducks being fed, jumped in pretended to be a I hate to admit it dog. You don't look Oh, this kid just got He thinks he's drinking Pepsi. I mean, to be fair, he'd realize the but it's actually got his That is one way to make sure Using only food, tell He's pointing to (laughing) This kid's been playing, outside I'm just impressed the to reach outside to be honest. Hey, can I call you? You can. Missed call. You didn't pick up. I didn't say I'd pick up. Hey. Didn't ever say he'd answer. Oh look at this. We got a girl game on our hands. She wasn't allowed to play games, so she got caught in the action. She'd wake up before turn on games. I used to do it. I would wake up before a little bit of Cool with Duty. We've all done it. My mom asked me for of my one month old baby. So I sent her this. Now that is a very formal baby, loving the suit. Those were amazing. More videos on screen. Quickly pick 'em I'll see you over there,