(suspenseful music) - Hey, everyone. Welcome to Boca Raton, Florida. This newly-constructed modern estate is located on the famous Stunning architecture, incredible views. It's gonna be a fun episode. Let's begin. (upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) All right, everyone, let's start our tour. We have this walkway taking us all the way to the front door. On my right-hand side, we have a spacious driveway that leads you to a four-car garage. Above that is actually the but they converted that with its own private balcony, beautiful cantilevered roof lines. And on the left-hand side which is your additional driveway. It has its own gate. That way you can park extra cars here. Two palm trees framing the entry. Landscaping looks stunning. And on each side of this This one is actually a water wall, so it really sets that nice relaxing tone before you enter the home. And on the right hand side, we can see the second water feature. I like the light-colored plaster. And those are steel sun shades, which help diffuse the And it's just a nice architectural detail. It almost gives this modern home a little bit of an art deco feel. Then on the exterior you can Those are guest suites. Beautiful modern lines, stucco finish. That's your glass elevator right there. And look at all these massive glass panes. And, lastly, we have the leading us to the great room. This is a phenomenal space We have the seating area here, dining area on the other side, this gorgeous chandelier above. Great volume. And, of course, you have opening up to your backyard which we'll cover later. First, I wanna talk Sectional couch, two chairs. This corner chair really You have this beautiful coffee table, and then your 12-foot I say floating because this fireplace That way, you get this true open feel. You have the glass on the other side, which faces the office, and this stonewall continues In fact, if you look at you can see the stonewall and all the way to the back of the home. So it's this continuous which I really like, especially the fact that so it creates a beautiful You have the second floor here that's actually your and you have a bridge on this That way, light can and make the home feel as Now, let's focus on the Beautiful dining area. I love this table with glass top. And the way these legs is actually very unique. You have seating for 12. These posh and comfortable chairs really give this dining I'm gonna say. And then you have this art piece above. Now, this is a really interesting detail because the size of this art was so big that they actually did this piece on-site, meaning they didn't actually bring it, because you would have to take the entire front of the home out in order to put this piece in. Part of the home now. It's an architectural detail, it's not an art piece anymore, but it certainly gives to the great room. Now, we wanna take a moment to showcase this property at night. It's 6:30 pm right now, and from the entry all this house lights up beautifully. We have track lights, recessed lights, mood lights throughout. And the feel of this home In fact, we have the great It's just a nice, cozy, warm space. And we're gonna see this house at night later in the tour as well. Now, coming here, we have this hallway I'm gonna start our tour with this one, which is the powder bathroom. Natural stone floors and light fixture above, floating vanity. I actually really like with LED lighting. And then we have this drop-in sink. But what's so special about this sink is actually the faucet. Mikey, I know you haven't Get a close up. - Yeah, you know I'm gonna (water gushing) - It fills up. That is really cool. I think I saw one of these on Instagram. I follow a lot of these design pages. - Pinterest-style pages. - [Mikey] These are really - This is the first time I've seen a faucet like this before, so there you go. I knew you would enjoy it. All right, back to the hallway. We have the laundry room here. Washer, dryer, sink. Door at the end opens up that we mentioned earlier. And, lastly, we have this door opening up to the only bedroom suite on this level. Comes with a king size bed. Sliding glass doors open which takes you to the backyard. You have a dressing table comes with a very tasteful walk-in shower, everything you need. Now, that's it for this wing. I wanna take everybody so we can check out the Phenomenal space. Sliding glass doors We're so close to the water. It's amazing. I can't wrap my head around it. It's right there. - Yeah, I'm getting- - [Mikey] I'm getting a little jealous of all the people on their boats. It is a little bright out but we'll get out there in a second. - We'll show some shots, you know? - All right, now before we continue, I wanna talk about the specs Six bedrooms, eight full, one half bath. 9,967 square feet of interior space. 0.41 acre lot. 125 feet of canal On the market for $25,650,000. And I wanna give big thanks Senada Adzem and Dustin Nero It always feels amazing to be in Miami, so I'm really glad we got a chance to tour this awesome, awesome home. - [Mikey] Yeah, this whole Technically, we're not in Miami. - Technically. - [Mikey] We're about - 40 to an hour. - Yeah. - [Mikey] The lifestyle's the same. You have people riding on Yeah. It's a little bit more calmer around here. You still have your and this home kinda has a Miami vibe to it as well, you know? - [Mikey] Yeah, I mean, Enes so, I think after that, - I had enough of it, maybe. - All right, let's talk about the kitchen. Very modern. Everything is pretty much hidden. If you look at the cabinetry, all the handles are nicely recessed in. So it has this very minimalist feel. Two massive islands. We have the first one right and it has an additional where you have a small Mood lighting throughout. You can actually see it on the floors. By the way, floors on this level are 11-inch European oak hardwood floors. Very tasteful. Light and bright, and really complements the Then behind me, we have the cabinetry here with mirror fronts all This is basically your dry pantry. And coming this way, we This is where your cooktops are located. It's all Wolf. Looks very clean. Again, very minimalist. I wanna get one of these. - [Mikey] Yeah, this is a longtime dream since we've been out - This, okay, I'm gonna - [Mikey] I've always wanted one of these. - This is my dream. - [Mikey] Imagine how great - I don't think I'll ever - No, never, yeah. I'll just cook here all the time. - [Mikey] This is one of my goals in life is to have one of these. It's a commitment that I really wanna do in my life in the future. - All right, we have a built-in appliances, all Wolf. Then you have this glass pivot door opening up from the side of the property, straight to your kitchen, that way you have an easy access here. And before we continue, I actually wanna bring because I forgot a detail that So now, it's a really cool drawer. When it comes out, you can see all the shelves But to make it a little bit better, they also added this feature. - [Mikey] We have never seen that before. - [Enes] This is the first time. You can pivot it. So if you have some larger appliances like they have in here, it's a little awkward to grab it out the other way, you know? - But now you can. - When you're done, bring it to the center, Now that's pretty cool. - [Mikey] Yeah, I'm assuming Yeah. Now, let's continue. You have your paneled fridge here. Section right in the Let's go have a quick look. We show these cabinets all the time at the houses that we tour. Doors nicely pocket to the sides. That way you can open it up. You have your drawer, your shelves, you can have the minimalist look, but you have the functionality You have your paneled freezer here. More built-in appliances. Another drawer. And coming here, this is your main sink. They have the cutting board, Your dish rack is here. And, I believe, let's see, this is the first dishwasher. I forgot to mention, there's another dishwasher Two dishwashers in total. I really appreciate that. You have a nice home. You gotta have at least two if you can. Three with your chef's kitchen, because when you throw a big party, you have all these dirty dishes. If you have one dishwasher, that's just not enough. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's like - Yeah, exactly. When you have a kitchen like And the best part is, from your kitchen, you can just enjoy these views. Right in the center of the main floor, we have a wine cellar here I believe it can accommodate And, coming here, we have the family room. I love the flow here. The fact that your kitchen is open, you have this comfortable seating, two really cool chairs, coffee table, and then your TV and your TV console is You have an informal Let's in fact, go check it out. And if you look at the interior, you can see these really and these recessed-in LED strips that have been installed throughout the first and second floor, including the exterior. Again, adds up to the I just wanna test one thing. That's what I thought. - Lazy Susan in the center, Now, let's open up the sliding glass doors so we can check out the backyard. (mellow music) This backyard is amazing. Sliding glass doors open up. Multiple outdoor seating and dining areas. Bar is located on the left. Pool is on the right-hand side. Stunning modern home, and it only takes you a few seconds to be right next to the which is amazing. 125 feet of frontage, and we have this stunning modern estate. Now what I like about this backyard is the fact that it feels very open. The entire second floor and they accomplish this look by having these massive steel I-beams holding the second floor. Now, think about it for a second. There's not a column in here. This entire section, which is your primary bedroom and your primary bedroom balcony, is totally cantilevering over. And the fact that they can float that much weight above a space like this, in an area where you have to build according to hurricane standards, is pretty fascinating. I can only imagine the amount of concrete and steel used in this house to create this unique structure. Literally, that entire wing is floating. So I really like this detail. When you're in the house, you don't have anything and it just creates this amazing flow. Now, that's the family outdoor seating area. We have the TV there. Right next to the bar or on we have the barbecue area. Coming this way, this We have these impact-rated opening up from the great room. And this walkway takes you and to the dock. Let's walk in this side for a second. It's crazy that, you're about what, 20 to 30 feet away from your living room, and you're on the Intracoastal Waterway. This is the canal. You can dock your boat here and- - [Mikey] Mind blown. Okay, so a couple things about the Intracoastal runs from Florida all the way to South Texas. (bright gentle music) Hello to everyone watching this video. This is Mikey. Upon editing this video, I discovered that I was totally wrong. The Intracoastal is a lot Stretching some of 3,000 miles all the way to Brownsville, Texas. This is a great example or do not speak at all. So, now that I've corrected myself, let's continue the tour. - I'm not sure, but you so I'm gonna go with that. - [Mikey] Well, I don't but I know there's It's really deep. So if y'all look around, you'll see these big yachts around here. You can have, probably, a No problem. Because the water's so deep. - Without a doubt. So we're seeing a lotta - Exactly, people are having a good time. I cannot believe Florida Like, you can easily walk even though I'm wearing a suit. Weather is great. Palm trees, landscaping, People are living a good - [Mikey] That's right. We got a house tour to do though. - All right, let's continue. Now, let's talk about the Very minimalist design. I like this light-colored plaster. Spa. Steps taking you down. And baja shelf is on this and I can't get over the fact cantilevers over the backyard. Now, a couple more We are sitting on 155 pilings, which serve as the I didn't know that you were supposed to, or you need to put pilings, but, now that I think about you wanna make sure you don't and you wanna make sure this home is really secure on this canal. I gotta assume that they've spent over a couple million dollars - [Mikey] I assume pilings are - Give or take, yeah. So, we come from a very - Los Angeles. - [Mikey] Yeah, obviously, How much do these building - Quite a bit actually. But because this is a hurricane area, you have to have impact-rated Doors or windows, in general. Everything needs to be a These are not like the usual Fleetwoods that we see in homes in Los Angeles. These are actually impact-rated That's why these panels are a And, during a hurricane, you can just close these doors up, and your home is safe. And that's why I was the amount of concrete and is gotta be immense. That way, imagine that primary bedroom is literally floating. Imagine 100-mile-an-hour wind, and you gotta hold that in place. It's pretty fascinating. - [Mikey] Yeah, that's pretty incredible. - All right, now coming back here, outdoor seating area with a fire pit. Recessed -in LED strip lighting More outdoor seating. I like these coffee tables. We have the sliding glass doors And then coming here we opening up to the bar. Very sleek and contemporary. We have the base cabinets here with this beautiful walnut reveal. Open shelving on the back that has a mirror back That's the perfect place for you to showcase your spirits. TV above, sink, fridge, and we have the island or Additional base cabinetry. Again, more of the darker tones. And, Mikey, can we go this way? We have this beautiful, with, again, walnut reveal, and then this concealed door which is also your pool bathroom, because we have an exterior door here. Spacious walk-in shower, chrome fixtures, clerestory windows above, and this textured tile where we have the vanity. Now, I'm gonna take my time First off, let's run It has a flat surface. That way, water actually But what's so interesting is actually what's underneath it. So, Mikey, let's get a close up. You can't see the drain lines. Well, we have water lines, Drain lines are on a flexible line. So, normally, when you look you will see the drain It's called P-trap. And what it is is when little bit of water actually That way all the methane gases and bad gases don't come into your house. So, if you've ever been in a house that hasn't been lived in you may have some bad smell, because your P-trap can dry over time. So it's always important every once in a while. But the fact that you don't have the assembly underneath this, it's actually concealed into It's super cool. I've never seen a vanity and plumbing design like this before. Did I make sense there? I felt like I was on the red for a minute. - [Mikey] I understand the way it works, so maybe it might be harder but that's why pretty much has to have cabinets below it. - Exactly. this P-trap and the pipes as well. - But on this one, they came and it just looks very sleek. All right, so that was it Going through this glass We briefly saw the office This is the double-sided TV, beautiful walnut If you look at all the panels, Some art pieces here. This beautiful marble with chrome legs. Spacious room. And I like that it's all glass and you still get sliding glass doors opening up to your backyard. That way, you can just benefit that we have here in Florida. All right, moving on, let's go this way. We have the entertainment room here, right off your great room. billiards table, modern sectional couch here facing Above that, we have to bring more natural light. And if you actually put there's an art piece behind it as well, so you can either watch TV, watch a movie, or you can just look at your art piece. It's nice to have the selection, you know? - [Mikey] Yeah, and it's so you don't have to have - We started to see these more often. - [Mikey] Yeah, I think they're getting more and more sophisticated. The technology's getting better. - There you go. And it's a nice comfortable lounge. I like that you also have facing the front of the home. Those are the steel sunshades that we saw off of the entry. At night, it lights up beautifully. It's just a cool architectural detail. Really nice space. And throughout the first we have these recessed-in Now, that's pretty much We have the staircase there. Elevator on this side. Let's check out the second floor. (upbeat music) All right, let's check Modern staircase here. I love these wall sconces that Screen detail in the center. And this staircase brings you where we have this bridge This is a phenomenal space. We have walls of glass on this side as well as the other side That way, this property gets as much natural light as possible. Chandelier is in the center. And then we have this hallway taking us to three guest suites. We're gonna start our tour with this one. Built-in cabinetry off Same hardwood floors King size bed, two TV is located on this side. And, of course, you have floor-to-ceiling opening up to a balcony The second one is on the other side. Obviously, you have your and your canal views. Pretty awesome. - Now, around the corner, dedicated for this room. Comes with a spacious walk-in shower, tiled wall here with a floating vanity. Good size bathroom. Now, let's go back to the hallway so we can continue our tour. Now, two more guest suites. Second one is on this side. This is the junior primary bedroom suite. Let's check out the bathroom first. Oversized tiles on the floors. This vanity set up here, but it's definitely modern, Massive sink with a hidden clerestory window above, and we have another one I'm going in. Showers in this house are so spacious. Even this one is a good size. Black fixtures. Really unique mosaic tile here. And this is the bathroom for this room. Now, this room is also canal-facing, spacious hallway, king size bed. I mean, this room can easily qualify as another primary bedroom easily. You have this paneled wall with mirrors, and the paneling that is right next to the sliding glass doors, runs all the way to the ceiling. Sliding glass doors open up to the balcony that I just showed. All the furniture is also included with the sale of this home. TV, TV console. Pretty spacious room. And same hardwood floors are also here. And let's quickly show this door opens up to your walk-in closet. Now, this is the last bedroom. This one is front-facing. Comes with a queen size bed. TV's on the other side. We have this really interesting wallpaper. And, behind this wall, cabinetry for your clothes. And, lastly, we have this door opening up to another full bathroom. Floating vanity with vein matched cabinetry, open shelving on the and we have the walk-in Again, more of the lighter All the walk-in showers and are pretty good size. Now, that's it for this wing. I wanna take everybody back so we can continue our tour on this wing. We have the gym and the primary bedroom This door opens up to the laundry room with some cabinetry and sink. And then we have this door Now, off of the entry, They have these cool art pieces. It just looks very nice. - [Mikey] Yeah, I don't really know what you do with that space, but I guess you could put a fridge or little kitchenette here - Well, keep in mind, They've converted it to a gym, and I'm assuming this is - [Mikey] Okay. - And that's why they turned Let's go this way. Sliding glass doors open up to a balcony dedicated to this room. And, of course, I'm gonna I'm trying to pick one that's like... So I don't struggle, but there you go. Stainless steel and walnut. I believe each one of these are couple hundred dollars a piece. - [Mikey] I mean, I was looking to buy for my house, and even not very nice ones I can only imagine really how much they cost. - These are so nice. It's like a staging, You have Tonal attached and just a nice space. And the fact that you get it just complements it. I feel like you can work outside, open up the sliding glass Now this bathroom is also very spacious. I like the lighter tones. You have your vanity on this side. Look at this nice reveal Cabinetry runs all the way to the ceiling with recessed-in lights. Then you have the spacious walk-in shower. They did a nice wainscoting detail here with a stainless steel reveal. Built-in bench, chrome - [Mikey] Feels like a spa in here. - There you go. Now, let's go back in. Again, I like the fact that and it's a good sized balcony as well. And coming back here to the hallway, we can go straight to the primary bedroom, which is phenomenal. Has an interior pivot door. Going in, small wet bar And look at the paneling it's all walnut. Then on the right-hand side, you have these recessed in lights that run all the way to the ceiling. And let's start our tour And I wanna end this This is the first bathroom, has more of the lighter tones. You have a built-in tub, but, first, I gotta go in Mikey, sorry, I'm gonna This is gotta be one of we have ever seen on our channel. You can easily have 20 people here. I'm not joking. - Look how we are 12 feet - [Mikey] Yeah, it is quite large. We do see some big showers And just saying that this is is a statement in itself. And we have body sprays, chrome fixtures, shower head, and the entire shower so it feels very open. Now, coming back to the we have the built-in tub on this side, same stone cladding actually And then we have the vanity here. I'm gonna take a moment First, you have the drawer with mood lighting. They also have a mirror front, so there's a next reflection. Then this is your oversized sink. And because you have glass on the back, and they don't have a you actually did a ceiling-mount which, again, opens up the space, and it's just a nice detail to look at. Coming this way, let's check Super spacious, massive that's marble clad, track lights on the ceiling, and I'm just gonna walk around to show the scale of this room. You have skylights above me, built-in cabinetry on both sides. Obviously, this side with back lighting, it's perfect for your shoes, Impressive. - [Mikey] Yeah, Enes and I are roommates. We live in a fairly large house. Correct. This is bigger than our kitchen, you know? This is quite a large closet right here. - Without a doubt. That's how I wanted to walk It's really nice. Really easy on the eye And that's it for the first bathroom and first walk-in closet. Now, let's go back to the hallway so we can check out the second one, and then the bedroom. I'm gonna close this door real quick. Again, I really like This is where we have the second bathroom, more of the darker tones with the floors. We have a massive vanity here. Again, vein matched cabinetry. This deep sink. Massive mirror that's And, within this mirror, That way when you're getting you can watch the stock market, watch your favorite morning show, and just really elevate your experience before you leave the house. - [Mikey] Watch the World Cup, you know? - Watch the World Cup, there you go. - By the time this video's released, the World Cup may be over, but I haven't watched a game yet, so, yeah. - It's been a good run. - Floating shelves on this And then, just when you think the other walk-in shower was big, then you come here to see this one, and it's just... This might be the biggest. - Yeah. Stone clad throughout. Drain is tucked on this side. They came up with this where we have the darker all the way to the ceiling, and on the other side you so it creates a nice contrast. 11 shower heads. They're all chrome fixtures, rain heads above. This section actually here is a built-in bench with heating, and you have these rain heads above you. That way you can lay down here More body sprays here. You know what, this is a You can actually shave because you have a mirror you can see yourself and rather than messing up your vanity. All right, that's it for this bathroom. Right on the other side, Let's go have a quick look. It's behind this concealed door. More of the darker tones. Island in the center. Pendant lights above. And I like this minimalist look where you have everything or the wardrobes here. And then you have your complemented with LED lighting. Now, there's actually a door here where you can access but I wanna take everybody so we can feel the space from this angle. This primary bedroom is amazing. Size, views, architectural It's pretty stunning. Bed is actually situated I really appreciate this approach, because this is an oversized room, and having the bed in the center really makes this bedroom cozy, and at the same time, you can still walk You have another seating area here. Desk is around the corner, but you have these phenomenal views. Obviously, we talked about it. The entire primary so I feel like until you you can't even see the backyard. From where Mikey is, all - [Mikey] Yeah, it's really awesome. - It's amazing. And let's assume that you don't you wanna watch TV, push of a button behind this wall here, we have a motorized TV that comes out. That way you can watch your TV. When you're done, you can keep your views. Pretty awesome. - [Mikey] I would expect but I like that even more. - Without a doubt. They definitely spent more to come up with this system. Obviously, you have your Great room, hardwood floors. And let's go to this side for a second. You have the coolest built-in desk. This section faces the backyard You're really close to the canal. This is just a nice feature Now, before we continue, I We are really big on showing because we feel like our love seeing these properties at night. In fact, we just toured during the day, now it's almost 6:37 pm, and room feels totally different. Between the recess these ceiling mount light room gets a totally different energy. You still have your but because outside is dark, and you have neighboring properties, you get this really cool And I'm always curious to see, especially modern homes at night, because I feel like in order for you to really feel comfortable, and get a true understanding of a home, you need to see it during In fact, later in the tour, we're gonna have an amazing night montage of this property as well. Now, what's left is the You have the sliding glass Amazing outdoor space. Has an outdoor table here. Outdoor seating area is Glass panels looking And, of course, balcony, glass railing, Intracoastal Waterway. This is pretty special. Now, with that, we're done with our tour, but, of course, we're gonna wait for sun to go down, so we can see and experience (air whooshing) (footsteps thudding) (upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) All right, everyone, Hope you'll enjoy this video. I wanna give a big thanks Senada Adzem and Dustin Nero, for making this video possible. And, as always, you can about this listing and their contact info in the description of this video. Lastly, if you enjoyed the tour, and we'll see you guys next week. (upbeat music)