Transcriber: Nhi Tran They say that the best way to start once upon a time, that is, And in this story, you should a picture of something that represents And then you should introduce a problem, something that comes and threatens And finally, of course, you should include A knight to slay that dragon. But when it comes to this it's not entirely easy to determine what Is AI the Dragon? I'm a teacher, and I've been for about two decades now. And when it comes to this it is those aspects concerning learning And in recent time, I have been given the I do research and on how teachers like development that we are seeing how it affects teachers work, especially how it affects and assess their students Generative AI in this context, being AI sound, and in particular text. And the most common initial reaction is that they fear that their student order to cheat. But as you dive into these matters you quickly realize that it's not constitutes cheating and what doesn't. And to explain, let me give you a This is Armand Duplantis. He holds the And this is Charles Hoff, a Norwegian a hundred years ago. In 1923, And this image that you see, it's And back then, I actually think that Hope oversix metres, because 100 years ago, Pole vaulter It was quite brutal. But over 100 years the record has Or in other words, by 48% . That's quite a lot, especially when For instance, in the men's 100m, the corresponding development So why has the record increase been Well, the most obvious explanation lies the pole. In 1923, Hoff used And hardwood poles are not great at into vertical height. When flexible poles What's worth noting is that we know that introduced, it has been quite the old type of poles to accuse the But over time, everyone starts because people don't really care They care about how high they jump. What The question, of course is, is generative and education comparable to what new types Just a few weeks ago, a large survey where they had asked young people and 24 if they had used generative And 36% said that they had. Among them, 55% admitted that they had used An additional 12% said that but they were unsure whether or And in this context, it's quite common for teachers who are tech nerds like we shouldn't consider using tools such Instead, we should teach our students That if generative AI can be used as a flexible pole to help our students then surely that's a good thing. That what matters is the quality of the But that is exactly. That kind of lead us to mistake the dragon for the knight. You see. The problem arise, when did you as a valid expression of learning Because in the context of learning is actually within the journey towards the To go on with that athletic metaphor if your coach tells you to run to a certain location the purpose is probably for you in order to But if you then use the you take a shortcut you will reach that destination but you will not get Let's move from that real Raise your hand if you have ever played Super Mario. You know, Most of you have. But have you ever the basic same character on every level? And in order to progress through the player that needs to get better. Compare that to most common When you pick up enhancements, that enables you to go on through You can even buy these enhancements Well, of course you might get better but those enhancements might risk making better than you actually are. Enhancements So what's the point Am I saying that we shouldn't Am I saying that we shouldn't teach as generative AI? No, that's What I'm saying is that it is complicated It varies from person to person. And to illustrate this, let me give you He is a key figure at OpenAI, And in March this year, they unveiled And it did this through a live demo where Brockman showcased some of For instance, he took a picture of a He uploaded that picture to GPT four, asking it to analyze it and then write and within a minute, Brockman A new functioning website was born. It But there was this one thing that Brockman that caught my attention. At one instance, with emphasis you should always look does never run untrusted code. and it became so clear Brockman read I read my mother tongue Swedish. And how do you think he has become so Well, probably because over the years a ton of code. And for someone having a system automating that process It makes such a person more efficient But for someone who does not possess Might mean that they are being deprived Now, some might say that, well, humans no longer need to. That when human humans don't know And that's certainly true in some cases. If machines can do tasks that, are harmful and dangerous for humans, But we can't do the mistake of a machine can do something, it And this becomes especially clear when the quality of the product, Because it's not only the learning that Quite often there are other important Aspects that aren't always that and we might risk losing Let me explain with one last example this As mentioned, teachers fear that their Well, let's turn the script a bit because. Can risk and be tempted to take Anyone who has been a teacher or anyone can probably relate to the feeling of a teacher sitting late at his a mountain of essays to grade that need to If they're in such cases where That would assess all those essays It would be very tempting I'll admit I would have But should we? You see an essential part but a great one, is knowledge about What they struggle with, what And such knowledge is to a large degree We should therefore be careful about So what's the solution then? Well. Firstly, we need to recognise that obstacles. If there is no resistance, The problem is that the human mind is for what is most efficient. It's The problem is that if we always we will risk losing valuable learnings You can see it as climbing a hill. With today's advanced technology, we can ask the technology to carry What I'm saying is that that might be Because a remarkable thing about today's we can ask it to coach us, to guide us, helping us conquer that hill, And it is exciting to see that there are and technology that take this approach. Khan Academy being one, for instance, where they have integrated a way that when students face problems the system does not just but it helps the student finding But you can also do these things directly For you in the audience. It Like instead of asking ChatGPT write the text yourself and then turn Such a small shift might Whenever we hand over a task to AI, are we robbing ourselves of a valuable So whether AI plays the role of that It depends on your choices. But you can only have a choice if And now you are. Now you are. (Applause)