I guess I was fairly apprehensive the whole time that I was flying in combat and and I guess there's good reason to feel that way. I'm there to cause a lot of damage and a lot of harm and therefore they would like to damage me and I was 25 years old, at that time. Now, one of the things that my dad had done when he was teaching me how to fly, and I've been very fond of saying if I have been successful as an aviator, it's because he was the one that taught me how to fly. He didn't just teach me how to fly, he taught me the why of it at the same time. So he was telling me the engineering, he was telling me the structural ramifications of pulling G's, for example, and how airplanes fly. So that was a great start. But then having the aeronautical engineering degree where you learned about profile drag and induced drag and shockwave drag, a transonic drag, all of those things I'm convinced that made me better prepared, To learn how to fly in the Navy when it was time to go through Navy pilot training. So I had not a whole lot of flight experience. I had about 150 hours of flight time before I joined the Navy, but between that and the aeronautical engineering, I had a huge head start. Why Navy? Well, the story of how I wound up in the Navy was a little bit complicated because back in the early late 1960s, we had the Vietnam conflict going on and so the draft was something that was going on. The Selective Training and Service Act of 1940 created the first peace-time draft in American history. Used to fill the ranks during World War II, it was eventually replaced by the Selective Service Act of 1948. Although modified at times, the Selective Service Act remained in effect through the start of the Vietnam War. During the Vietnam War, the draft became a hotly contested issue. Anti-draft demonstrations on college campuses, erupted throughout the nation. You were only going to have four years of college deferment that you could have, and since I transferred from a Community College into the four year university system, I was out of sequence in one course. It was going to take five years to graduate. And so at the end of my third year, beginning of my 4th year, I had to fill out a questionnaire if I was going to graduate in four years. And the answer was no. And so immediately the draft came after me and they were going to draft me out of college, right out of college. And so I figured I'd better go sign up for an officer program because I wanted to fly jet fighters. And the first place I went to, I walked into the Air Force recruiter. And the Air Force recruiter said, well, when are you going to graduate? And I said, well, that's the problem, I'm not going to. And he said, well, we, we don't talk to candidates unless you're within six months of graduation. So come back, come back a year from now or a year and a half from now where there wasn't going to be a year from now. And so I walked into the Navy recruiter and the. First question was what's your what's your draft status? And I said it's 1A and he pulls out this form letter that says dear draft board, please leave this guy alone. We're considering him for an officer program and he signs it at the bottom and he said sign here. This gives us three months to work this and I signed there. So immediately I was impressed. And so that's the story of why I wound up in the Navy instead of in the Air Force. And I'm, I'm glad it went that way because I got to have the experience of flying from aircraft carriers, which is a very unique part of aviation. And I would have missed it, most likely, if I'd if I'd been in the Air Force. So that was a lucky break. And so I'm proud of the fact that I did get to be a Naval officer and serve in the military for altogether 27 years. Wow. Can you kind of summarize the the Navy experience up to the time you got your wings? Well, I'm sure we've all heard the expression boot camp. It wasn't called boot camp, but it was just like boot camp. You had Marine Corps drill instructors screaming at you, urging you along. And and and it if if you were pretty thin skinned, it was going to be a difficult thing for you to do. But it was called, in my case, it was aviation officer candidate school and it was, let's see, it's about 16 weeks that you went through it and that was basically learning how to be an officer, learning how to be a member of the military and learning how to be an officer. But it also included primary flight training. Which was great. So I got to fly the Beechcraft T-34B Mentor, which is a bonanza, a bonanza with two seats, a tandem cockpit. But it was Same engine as the early Bonanzas. Same wing, same same fuselage structure for the most part. And I got to fly that. That took about seven weeks to get through the course of instruction and you wound up soloing the T-34. Of course I had sold previously to that and had my private license prior to that, but I got to do that and that was the course of instruction and at the very end of it on on the day that you were commissioned, graduated and commissioned from Aviation Officer Candidate School. That same drill instructor that had been screaming at you all those weeks of your training, all of a sudden he was your first salute. And so he got to be the one who rendered your first salute to you. And that was Staff Sergeant Sanders was my drill instructor. Never forget him. Never forgot. Never forget. In the training portion of your Navy career leading up to getting your wings. What? What's the What did you learn that you didn't know before you started the Navy program about flying? Oh, so many things. Of course I had phoned general aviation aircraft and so that was the same as primary flight training. Everything beyond that was was much more advanced. I had never flown a jet airplane until I went to the T-2A 'Buckeye'. Uh, North American T-2A 'Buckeye'. And that was the first jet that I ever flew. And jet aviation is so very much different from piston engines or even just propeller type aircraft, not just the speeds involved, but the altitudes involved, the flight envelopes, the, the G loading that you're able to put on those kind of airplanes. So it's it's it's much more high speed flight, much more, much more dynamics. There's a whole lot more flight dynamics involved because if you picture something like.. Let's say the difference between a J-3 Piper Cub, which is much aerodynamics, very little vehicle dynamics because the vehicle mass is so light. Now contrast that with something like an F-104 Starfighter, which I've flown, which has these little tiny wings. A lot of mass in the fuselage, a lot of inertia, a lot of momentum that can be built up with pitch rates and roll rates and things like that. There's so much in the world of dynamics and maybe not quite so much aerodynamics, and so there was a lot to learn about the flight dynamics of big heavy airplanes as being different from very light airplanes. So what year did you receive your wings? And then when you were ready to go to the fleet, where did you go first? I was pinned on my wings on January the 29th 1971 at Corpus Christi. I had finished advanced jet training actually at Kingsvale Naval Air Station. But the ceremony with the Admiral took place at at Corpus Christi Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi. So I received my wings that day and I had orders to report to Miramar Naval Air Station in San Diego to train to fly the F-4 Phantom. And that had been my first choice. My first choice. You filled out a preference card when you were within, I don't know, pick a number three months of receiving your wings and my first choice had been F-4 Phantoms on the West Coast and second choice was F-8 Crusaders on the West Coast and then third choice would have been F-4 Phantoms on the East Coast and F-8 Crusaders on the East Coast. I got my first choice and I think, I think you had to do well. And I think because of the head start that my dad gave me and the head start that having some flight time ahead of time and the aeronautical engineering, all of those things and the model airplanes, let's not forget the model airplanes, I think those gave me a head start. So I did fairly well and got my first choice. At what point were you pretty certain that you were going to Southeast Asia, that you were going to a real fight? As soon as I saw Orders to F-4Phantoms. I knew that, and particularly since I was going to the West Coast, we knew that we would be taking part in the Vietnam conflict. And how did you feel about that? It it wasn't a popular war. Those of us that lived through it at that period of time knew that the country was somewhat torn apart by it, and it wasn't popular here in the US. But I had signed on to be a naval officer. And when you sign on to be a naval officer, you're going to receive orders and you will follow those orders. And so it was something that I knew would most likely occur. Although you kept thinking, well, Gee, maybe this war will be over soon. Maybe it'll be over right away. So I I wasn't necessarily going after it, because I would get to fly in combat, although that was a very challenging form of flying, and would develop you in many, many ways as a pilot, as an aviator. But I I knew there was a good chance that I'd wind up in Vietnam, and sure enough I did. What do you remember about the the weapons training that you had to go through to operate the the jet fighters? Well, in the Navy. In the Navy, you got to do that before you got your wings. The Air Force doesn't do that. The Air Force, you basically have learned how to fly a supersonic jet. You've learned how to fly instruments and how to do that very thoroughly. You've learned how to fly in formation and maybe a little bit of tactical maneuvering. But any of your weapons training happens after you get your wings in the Air Force. In the Navy as a tactical jet pilot we did air to air gunnery. Trying to remember if we did air to ground gunnery, I don't think we did any air to ground gunnery. But in the A-4 Skyhawk in advanced training, we did bombing, we did practice bombing, and we did air to air gunnery. And in fact we did gunnery in basic training in the T-2 jets before you finished basic training, before you went on to advanced training. So I had fired machine guns, I had dropped practice bombs. And of course all of that changed when I got to the Phantom, because now you're going to do the real thing. So we did, we did use practice bombs to practice achieving the the release conditions that you had to arrive at to have your gun sight be telling you where you were going to hit. But then we actually did drop live 500 pounders going through the training in the F-4 Phantom Squadron. When you Do you remember the date of your or do you remember your first mission? And how old were you on that day? My first mission in Vietnam was my first flight with that squadron because I had completed all my training in the in the Navy it's called a Readiness Air Group or RAG Squadron and that was at San Diego. That squadron doesn't go deployed, it doesn't go aboard carriers, but you train on how to fly the F-4 Phantom at that at that squadron. And then I guess I had done well in that training as well. So I was designated what they called a category Alpha and that was someone who could replace a pilot on a ship over in the Tonkin Gulf. So I was sent over to the Coral Sea to join Fighter Squadron 111 the Sundowners as a replacement pilot. And so my first sortie in that squadron was April the 18th of 1972 and it was a combat mission. So that was my first catapult from the aircraft carrier in a Phantom with 3000 pounds of bombs on board. Do you remember what you were thinking when before you released from the carrier. Well, I I knew it was a combat mission. It was actually a mission to troops in contact in South Vietnam. So we weren't expecting a MiG threat. We weren't expecting a lot of antiaircraft artillery, which we call AAA antiaircraft artillery. We weren't expecting a whole lot of big gun shooting at us. There's always The small guns shooting at you, AK-47s, things like that. We weren't expecting any of that. I was apprehensive. I was apprehensive in my first first combat sortie and I was probably apprehensive as well, because this was the heaviest Phantom I had ever flown. And the Phantom was an interesting airplane to fly from the aircraft carrier because you went down the catapult and you got to the end of the catapult and you were flat. You were in a flat attitude and. And you couldn't rotate until you got clear of the carrier deck, and now you had to get from being flat to 10 degrees pitch angle immediately. If you didn't, you're in the water. And so we went down the catapult at full half stick. And what happened was, as you got clear of the deck and the acceleration on the catapult was rapid enough, it was 4 to 4 and a half G's of acceleration. It changed the shape of your eyeballs and it was difficult to focus your eyes while the catapult was pushing you. And then once the catapult ended, you had about, I don't know, what, 30 feet of deck left and you're busily trying to focus your eyes. And then once you were off the end, you were sitting there at full half stick and you watched the attitude gyro. Or you watched outside and as soon as you saw it start to pitch up, you had to be ready to go to almost full forward stick to stop the pitch rate. At 10 degrees, but you had to get to 10 degrees. Now you could over rotate. That wouldn't generally be fatal, although there have been accidents where somebody over rotated to 25 degrees high and the airplane stalled and rolled and that that would not be a fun day. But you had to get to that 10 degrees because you're not going to fly away. You're going to be right into the water if you didn't, if you didn't get to that attitude. And so at night, at night it seemed like I had a tendency to over rotate because you want to get away from that nasty dark colored ocean and and like I say you could you could survive a little bit of an over rotation. You could not survive an under rotation. By 1972, there were pilots over there who had had some experience in the in the theater and in those missions. Do you, do you remember anyone in particular trying to give you advice as a new replacement pilot or? Saying, you know, here, here's the thing to making it, to surviving over here, was there any of that kind of help? Yes, all of them. All of the above. Yeah, all of the above. Well, I I remember very vividly the, oh golly, the squadron commanding officer, Bob Pearl, the executive officer, Bob Rice. We had a very experienced group of people over there and of course the Vietnam War had cranked up in about 1964. So by 1972 you had a whole squadron full of experienced aviators. Now I joined the the carrier halfway through that cruise. So all the other pilots in the squadron had experience in combat and I didn't, but one of the one of the really experienced pilots was one of the pilots that helped found the Navy's Top Gun School. Jim Rollefson was the operations officer when I got to the squadron. I'm sorry, wait, he wasn't. He was the maintenance officer when I first joined the squadron and then very shortly after that he became the operations officer. But the OPS officer at the time as well was a very experienced he had flown F-8s previously, Dave Coles. And he was now the OPS officer in this F-4 Phantom Squadron. He's the one that that caused me to get the nickname Hoot by the way, because when I first joined the squadron I was a 25 year old, 25 year old kid. Now I was experienced, I had, I had flown the F-4 Phantom in training and been through Navy pilot training. But the the way I like to tell the story is that he said, OK, kid, you got a nickname. He didn't call me kid, but he said OK, well do you have a nickname? And my real name is Robert. So I said, oh, yes, Sir, it's Bob. And he said, no, come on, I mean a real nickname. And I said, well, occasionally in the past I've been called Hoot. And of course, that came from the movie star cowboy Hoot Gibson. So if your last name's Gibson, you're going to get Hoot for a nickname. My dad told me that he, when it was in the Army Air Corps, had picked up the nickname Hoot. And so that's when I got the nickname Hoot. And that went on my name tag on my flight suit that went on the side of my cockpit, my canopy in the F-4 Phantom that went on my coffee cup. So that was April of 72. I changed from being Bob Gibson to being Hoot Gibson. There are people in Aviate... Well, there's people all around the world who have known you for years that might struggle to know your real first name. It's true. My, my my dad went to a test pilot symposium and this was when I was brand new in the F-14 Tomcat and the Tomcat was brand new because I was in the first squadron. I was in the Navy's first Tomcat squadron and two of our aircrews... It was probably a pilot and A and a Rio, a radar intercept officer of a back seater in the Tomcat. Went to the Society of Experimental Test Pilot Symposium and my dad was a member of that. And so after their talk, they talked about the F-14 Tomcat, this brand new jet fighter that the Navy was, was getting. And my dad walked up to them after their talk and he said, hey, how do you do? I'm Paul Gibson, my son's a pilot in your squadron. And they said, really, who's that? And he said Bob Gibson. And they so looked at him and they said Bob Gibson, Bob Gibson, we don't have oh, you mean Hoot. So yes, most of the world didn't know me as Hoot for for quite a few years. When you docked with mirror, did the Russians say hello? Hoot? Yes, now it was. Yeah, it was interesting. Sometimes in the different languages, who, who doesn't come across as Hoot? I remember when I, when I flew a shuttle mission with the Japanese, I flew a joint mission with Japan. One of the Japanese astronauts that we were training couldn't say Hoot. So it was Hut. It was hut. So, and I'm trying to think, I think the Russians were able to pronounce it, were able to pronounce it Hut or Hoot rather. And then did you have to get into an explanation of old time Western movies? Probably not. Well, you know, over the years, since I'm old enough, of course I I knew about Hoot Gibson, the movie star cowboy. But nowadays, oh golly, none of our none of our young people have ever heard anything about someone named Hoot Gibson who was a cowboy. So I'm always explaining, always explaining. Yeah, he was a movie star cowboy. STS-7 was my was my third launch. And it was only the second launch after the challenger accident. So we lost challenger January the 28th 1986. It took us nearly three years to redesign, recertify, rebuild and we went through everything on the shuttle, not just the solid rocket boosters which caused the accident. We had to redesign those and re recertify. them for flight. And. The folks out in Utah, Thiokol, Morton Thiokol, and Thiokol incorporated, just did such a brilliant job on the redesign and the the way we mechanized the booster rockets. After challenger that we had just about zero problems with the booster rockets for the whole rest of the Space Shuttle program. But we had to we had to go through everything, not just the booster rockets, the external tank, the orbiter, everything about it. And then we were finally ready to launch again. And the first launch was Discovery launched in September of 1988. And then I got assigned to command the second launch of STS-27 aboard Atlantis. And. That was kind of interesting because I flew the last successful launch before challenger before the Challenger accident, and then I flew the second launch after we started up again. I almost flew back-to-back missions. And we were a top secret classified Department of Defense mission. So to this day, if I told you what we carried, you could never leave this hangar. So go ahead. Never had anybody tell me that before. careful what you wish for. But yes, it was a top secret classified mission. And one of the fascinating things about it was that my crew and I got briefed into what our capabilities in space are in terms of in terms of the military. And again, it's not weaponry. We don't put weapons in space. So it's not weaponry, but it's intelligence gathering, it's surveillance and. So we we were the second launch after after challenger accident after Discovery had flown in September. We launched on December the second of 1988. So it took us almost exactly three years to redesign and rebuild. And it was interesting being a top secret mission because there was a ton of press and media interest in the fight before mine, STS-26. And now here comes the top secret mission. Don't try to ask us any questions because we won't tell you anything. We can't cover what we're covering on this mission, and we're trying to avoid the press. And the press was just ferociously interested in anything space shuttle after the Challenger accident. In fact, the press had changed overnight prior to challenger the press. Talked about NASA and they said, OK, well NASA says they're going to do this and they're NASA. So they will do it and they'll make it work, they'll pull it off, that'll that'll be a. We're forecasting success already. After challenger, they flip-flopped. They were the opposite. It seemed like no matter what we were doing, they questioned it all. They were. They were. They were. Not agreeing that we were just going to go accomplish what we were going to go accomplish, but Even so, they sure wanted to be there for every little thing on the mission. So we actually tried to launch on December, the first of 1988 and the winds up at altitude were were raging. So this was December. So we've got winter winds up there and the jet stream during launch. Looks like 140 mile an hour wind shear to us because here's our jet stream flowing along from West to east and here we come up in our shuttle and by the time we got to where the jet stream was, we're going fast. We're probably up to MachA Oh golly Mach 2 at least. And so it looks like a sudden wind shear. So December the first we had winds that were out of limits. We can launch if our structural indicators say we've got 100% design load, we can launch at 100%. We can't launch at 101% design load. So on December the 2nd. We sat on the launchpad for about 4 1/2 hours and used up the whole entire launch window hoping for the winds to die down and right about the end when it looked like. We're not going to get the launch today either. The winds died down enough to where they where they concluded that we are at 100% design load, OK, we can launch. So we launched and we had very little. Time left I want to say seconds, maybe 30 seconds left in the launch window. So we just barely made it into space that day. Unbeknownst to us. During the launch, the nose cap of the right hand booster rocket, that's the big white rocket that's on the side of the thing. The nose cap has a coating of ablative material on it, and the ablative material obviously wasn't strong enough. It broke loose and pieces of it showered my right wing on Atlantis, so of course we couldn't see any of that. But the ground always goes through all the launch. Footage. All the movies, all the stills, everything to look for this sort of thing. So the next day. After we had gone to orbit and on the first day, we deployed a major new intelligence satellite for the United States. And that's about as much as I'm allowed to say about it, even to this day. This was 1988. So what's that? 34 years ago and we I still, I'm still not allowed to say what it was we carried, but I am allowed to say it was a a major new intelligence satellite. Mission Control called us and said: &quot;Hey. Hoot during launch, we saw something hit your right wing&quot;. We want you to take the robot arm, which is they call it the RMS, the remote manipulator system. It has a television camera on the end of it as part of the system. So we want you to hang it over the right side of the orbiter and look at your right wing and tell us what you see. Well, I will never forget. We maneuvered the arm and Mike Mullane was my arm operator, so he moved the arm over there and we brought up the television image of the right wing and I looked at what I was seeing and I said to myself, we are going to die. Because we could see a vast amount of tile damage on the right wing. So I keyed the mic and I told told the Capcom, if I remember right, the capsule communicator or Capcom was Dave Hilmers. And I called him and I said, Dave, we're seeing a lot of tile damage on the right wing. And he said, OK, we'll, we'll, we'll get back to you. So they went away for a while and it turned out. Department of Defense. Didn't want any video coming down. Just in case we would have the death ray in the picture. OK, we didn't have a death ray. Just in case there would be something classified. Yeah. Yeah. The flux capacitor, like, yeah, from back to the future, yes. So DOD didn't want anything. Video any kind of imagery at all coming down from the mission. In fact, every photograph that we shot over the whole course of it was only 4 1/2 days. But one of the goals that you had as a shuttle crew was to shoot up every frame of film that you had on board. You didn't want to come back and land with any unexposed film. But DOD had to go through every single frame with a microscope and make sure there was nothing classified that accidentally showed up in any of these, any of these things. So for example, a a shot looking out the window. Of the earth and a particular point on the earth if somehow the time of that frame showed up. In the frame that was going to be a classified item because where we were at any particular time was going to be secret, although. You could pretty well tell where we were, but anyway, so DOD finally relented and said OK, since you really need to take a look at your right wing, we'll let you send down encrypted video. OK, well encrypted video isn't very good. It doesn't have very good resolution. And I guess what it does, it shoots A-frame and it takes about 3 seconds to encrypt it and record it, and then another frame another three seconds. So the resolution was so poor that down on the ground unbeknownst to us. Mission Control looked at it and said. That's not tiled damage, that's just lighting and shadows that these boys are looking at. Hoots all screwed up. Well, did they ever tell us that? No. They came back I guess after 24 hours because I think they looked at it for a full day before they came back. And Dave hilmers. Called and said OK uh, hey Hoot, we've got the we've got the resolution on your tiles. And I said OK yeah, great. Go ahead. Dave. What? He said it's no problem just re enter just like we always do. Well, I was incredulous. I couldn't believe it. And I called the Mike and I said Dave. What are they basing that on? And he said, OK, we'll stand by because he had to get the rationale from the engineers and all. And it came back about 10 minutes later and he said Hoot they looked at it and they said it's no worse than what we've seen on other missions. Notice they did not say. We don't think you're seeing tile damage. We think you're just seeing lighting and shadowing. He didn't say that, so this is called a failure to communicate. Now I think I was communicating because I said, Dave, we're seeing a lot of tile damage on that right wing. So they came back and said, meh, it's no worse than what we've seen before. Well, I said. Well, you know what, I've been here since before STS-1, the first shuttle launch, and I have never seen anything like this. And then I did something that I shouldn't have done. I kind of gave in. I said OK, but you guys are the experts. I should have dug my heels in and said, hey, let's talk about this, because I'm definitely seeing serious tile damage. But I think the big failure to communicate was on Mission Control. They never said to me. You are not seeing tile damage Hoot, You're just messed up. It's just lights and shadows. Because if they had done that I would have said OK, I'm sending you clear TV. Because I'm definitely seeing tile damage. Uh, but I caved in because it was always and still is, considered bad form for an astronaut to get into an argument with Mission Control. In fact, it's career limiting for you to get into a contest. A fighting contest with Mission Control. So I gave in and I shouldn't have, I should have made them talk about it some more. And so there were some, ah, there were some funny things that came out of it the night before re-entry. I remember one of the astronauts, one of the astronauts was talking about how. He was a little bit more than nervous about this reentry tomorrow. And, and I said to him, ah, come on, don't feel that way. No use dying all tensed up. And so you know this is fighter pilot humor, you know or you know gallows humor and. However, all the way down on re-entry I was watching the elevons. I can see right where the left elevons are and where the right elevons are on my display, and I knew that if we started to burn through the right wing, what I would see. Is we would build up more drag on that right wing and to balance the amount of drag, the left elevon would be going down and that creates drag. That's how we create drag with an elevon at this 40 degree angle of attack that we fly re-entry at. And so all the way down I have the audio that I that I made from the re entry, that we made, the crew made for the reentry, and all the way down in the atmosphere about every two minutes. I'd say guys, that controls look good, the elevons look good. So we watched them all the way down because I knew what I'd see as I'd see a split. The right elephants would be going up, the left elephants would be going down. Oh, and Elevon is a combination aileron and elevator. So that's why it's called elevon. So that's what we have on the trailing edge of both winks. I'd see the right elevon going up and the left elevon going down. And if that happened, I knew that I might have 60 seconds to tell Mission Control what I thought of their analysis, but fortunately all the way down the the elevon stayed stayed matched. So that said to me, I'm pretty sure we're not burning through over on the right wing. But after we landed. There was amazement, there was absolute amazement. We had damaged 770 tiles. And I think 300 of them were serious damage to the tiles, chunks bigger than an inch that were chopped out of the tile. Just for perspective, what what percentage of the tiles is 770? It's not a real big percentage, but it was over on the right wing. It's enough to destroy the. Shuttle. on the right wing? Oh, absolutely. And and even more than that, John, we had one tile that was entirely missing, which we had not been able to see. With the robot camera, with the RMS camera, we had not been able to see that we had one tile entirely gone, and we almost burned through at that location. We lucked out many, many ways that we came back at all, but we lucked out. In that particular location where that tile had been mounted, there was a thick plate under it that I had something to do with a ground plane antenna. For the L band system. So there was a thicker plate there and it didn't burn through. If it had just been the regular aluminum surface, I suppose there's a chance that that might have burned through and if that had happened, we might have been the Columbia accident on only the second launch after the challenger accident. And if we had broken up at Mach 17, which is where Columbia broke up in 2003, if we had broken up at Mach 17, where were we? We were in the North Pacific, just South of the Aleutian Islands. We would have gone into the ocean when we broke up. There wouldn't have been much to find. That would have been the very end of us, of course, but it would have been the end of the shuttle program, because the discussion would have sounded like this. We gave you guys all this money to fix your space shuttles, and you lost the second launch after you started up again. It's the end. We can't afford to keep doing this. It would have been the end of the shuttle program. It would have been the end of us, of course, but. Where was the where was the big mistake? The big mistake was Mission Control didn't tell us what they were thinking. We definitely told them what we were thinking. And that's a an important lesson for leadership and for communication. Tell what you're thinking. And. I gave in and I shouldn't have done that. I should have said, hey, you know, you need to talk to me a little bit more about this, because I'm pretty darn sure that I've never seen anything like this before. So I I guess I'm partly to blame for us entering that way without knowing that Mission Control could have possibly looked at something. Maybe there was something we could do to fly a more gentle reentry. I don't know. When you got down and saw that tile damage, did you have to keep your hands in your pockets to keep from punching somebody in the face? Well, no, cause you know, we wouldn't have known who to punch. There probably would have been too many people for us to punch. But in the debrief this, you know, this won't give us any any great satisfaction whatsoever? I asked the lead Ascent and entry flight director. Who was responsible for Mission Control as the leadership and Mission Control? I asked him in the debrief. I said, OK, if you had listened to us, And paid attention to what we were saying and realized that we did have serious tile damage. What do you suppose we could have done? and he said; &quot;I don't know&quot;. And that was as far as it went. So what did we do after STS-27? The only thing we fixed after STS-27 was we went to a stronger ablative. Remember several minutes ago I mentioned the ablative on the nose cone or the right booster rocket disintegrated. They went to a stronger ablative. So we had no more problems with that, ever Again. I don't know what an ablative is. Oh, that's that's a material that will erode under real high temperature and burn off very gradually. All the original Mercury, Gemini and Apollo spacecraft had an ablative heat shield. So it would burn and char and then the char would break away and then the next layer would burn and char and break away. And that was how you protected the aluminum surface of the of the vehicle. So that was to protect protect the the booster rocket nose caps because those could be reused. So or or just to protect them. I'm not sure those can be reused, but it was to protect the the rate gyros and things that would be up in the nose cone of the booster rocket. We went to a stronger ablative. We did not say, OK, if this happens again, we had to repair some tiles or repair a missing tile. Could we do that? We have looked at it very briefly. NASA had looked at it. Very briefly before the first Shuttle Launch STS-1 because after the trouble we had flying Columbia from California to Florida and had all these tiles come loose. There was talk about, OK, what if we get up there in space and there's a bunch of missing tiles? Can we come up with a a putty that we could putty up that that gap? That was done a little bit before STS-1, but then we saw that our tiles worked OK, so we never did anything else about it, so even after we had lost the tile. We never looked into what could we do to replace a tile on orbit, so we weren't prepared for this, and we weren't prepared when we lost Columbia either. And we didn't, we didn't look into Columbia as thoroughly as we should have. Maybe there was something that we could have done.