- I have something pretty Check this out. (curious pizzicato music for the vibes) You are watching the excavation from one of the last woolly (researcher laughs) - Okay, we'll take another one closer. - It's honestly incredible to me to see tusks of mammoths basically where the mammoth fell thousands and thousands of years ago. I know this is a bit of a cliche, but it's really like a It feels like time traveling. It feels like these tusks in our time period. I don't know, I don't know I love it. 20,000 years ago, these ice from here in North America where I am now all the way to Ireland. But by 10,000 years ago, they were stuck. - So, they went through at the end of the last ice age. They became isolated very small population size, and somehow they still survived - That's Dr. Marianne Dehasque, a geneticist now at Uppsala University. The island she's referring to and the island where all is called Wrangel Island, and it's here that mammoths survived until about 4,000 years ago. Marianne was one of the Temporal dynamics of woolly prior to extinction. A bit of a mouthful, but it gives us an incredible into the last woolly mammoths, the last woolly mammoths to and their results were kind of and absolutely fascinating. I know I say this every time, but for you prehistory/paleo This is so interesting. You're gonna want to hear all about this, last mammoths, the last Incredible. Did you expect that at all? - No. That was very (bright music) - I've never had a They're not asking if They're asking if you want to have a meaningful, fulfilling career that can help save the world. 80,000 Hours is a nonprofit that wants to help you and whilst you're doing And everything they do is It won't cost you a penny. Based on years of research with academics from Oxford University and consultation with industry leaders, people that really work they believe that they can really help you have a fulfilling career and do something meaningful, That's honestly something I'd love to have been a mammoth geneticist and help with interesting Now, fortunately, I feel like but honestly, for years I was totally directionless in life. Didn't know what I wanted to do and didn't know how to That's the problem 80,000 Car coming. Wonder if they have a nice job. Hope so, hope so, Honda civic driver. So, if you are feeling like maybe you want to do something more meaningful, more impactful, check out 80000hours.org/stefanmilo. There's a link in the description. They have podcasts, newsletters, It'll sign you up for their email and you'll get their Everything they do is for free And yeah, I hope you find It's very important, but for your own personal wellbeing. Let's see what's going because their DNA, speaking of - [Old Timey Reporter] The eight-month is over when the ship And just in time, for the - Wrangel Island is an extremely Winds can exceed 89 miles per hour. Snowstorms can blanket the island. There are very few days It's cold. It's isolated. But because of these we're able to get a glimpse So many are just so well preserved. How many mammoths were - So, we sequenced 21 Sequencing to high that we sequence a lot of DNA just to make sure that is covered by many independent reads, which gives us a bit more certainty about the inferences we make. But before actually to very high coverage, we must have screened about What we basically do is that we collect as or other people that are not me collect as many samples as they can. We then, or they then sent to the lab in Stockholm. So, it's literally pieces And it can be anything. It can be bone. It can be a piece of a tusk. The best samples actually tend to be teeth because they're very dense, which usually means slightly And what we do is that we extract DNA from all those samples, or we try to extract DNA Then we look at which samples so DNA that's the best preserved, and then those we will to generate whole high-coverage genomes. - Not all of the mammoths in this study came from Wrangel Island. I think it was, yeah, seven of came from mammoths who Often their tusks are found and the team have to dig which just cannot be easy considering the absurd I'm not gonna lie, if it was up to me to in those conditions, they might stay in the That's my absolute worst nightmare. These mainland samples are because the team wanted to get with the woolly mammoth population before they were stuck on Wrangel Island. The end of the Ice Age in earth's temperature. But 14,000 years ago, there was a very warm period called the Bolling-Allerod Interstadial. This warm period was then called the Younger Dryas. It lasted about 12,900 years ago. You can see on this chart those two huge fluctuations at the end of the last ice age before our current relatively warm, relatively stable time So, Marianne and her team were curious. How did the mammoths cope - And what we actually is that mammoths gradually got pushed up more and more northwards. So, we were expecting to also see that in their genome, in their genes. We were expecting them to maybe show some signs of struggling. But maybe somewhat to our surprise, it seems that they were remarkably So, no signs as far as we could tell from those dramatic changes in climate. - The youngest mainland sample they had came from the New Siberian Islands. I know that's a little bit confusing. They're islands now, but 12,000 years ago when sea levels were lower. It was all connected to the mainland. - I think it's about 12,000 years old. So, that's basically pretty close to when they went and it basically looks exactly the same as a mammoth that's 50,000 years old. It's really remarkable, yeah. - Makes you wonder why they - Definitely. - You know, I am a little bit in the camp of humans might have had - Yeah, I agree. The way I imagine it is because of a lot of climate but then it was probably the humans that kind of pushed them over the edge. - Mm, yeah, a combination of factors. Yeah, often these things was it climate change or was it humans? - Yeah, and I think that's Yeah, it was probably - It's kind of interesting we know that mammoths are declining. They're being pushed back And yet from this mammoth's genome, it's exactly the same as a mammoth that lived 50,000 years ago. Flourishing, flourishing It's kind of odd. It's kind of strange. One possibility is that we're not getting the complete picture. Sea levels have risen a lot since then. There were many mammoths roaming the earth in places that are now deep underwater. Maybe if we had access to those mammoths, it would give us a different picture. But that's challenging to excavate in the best circumstances. And at the minute, that's to access for sure. - But until we have submarine expeditions, I unfortunately don't - Yes. Dangerous time to sail a I imagine not many volunteers. - Yeah. 12,000 years ago, for whatever reason, woolly mammoths basically That cold period of the Younger earth is warming, ice is melting, sea levels are rising, and for one family of mammoths, their way of life was Wrangel Island is about 140 kilometers off the northern coast of Russia. It's 7,600 square kilometers big, about the same size as Crete, twice the size of the Absolutely no one lives there. It's home to arctic birds, muskox, foxes, polar bears. It's a truly, truly wild place. It's got to be one of the wildest places you could visit on the whole planet. Today, it's only connected when the sea ice expands. During the ice age, though, it was fully connected to mainland Asia, a mountainous peninsula on the Scientists estimate it was by rising sea levels And as sea levels rose, it must have stranded a group They didn't swim there. What's extraordinary is that thanks to Marianne and the team, we now know exactly how many when the sea levels rose. Yeah, how many mammoths were - Based on our estimates, it could have been as - Just eight. - Yes, that's a very Or I can define maybe a bit more precise. It was probably eight - The herd could have been bigger than eight individuals in a sense. There could have been older But just eight breeding that would last for 6,000 years, from 10,000 years ago when until 4,000 years ago. Was that a surprising result? - Definitely. Although, we did already that it was a very small population. There has been done some research before on the mitochondrial DNA of the mammoths. Mitochondria are just inherited and based on that, we knew even been just a single herd. - That's kind of crazy. That's definitely kind of crazy. And to understand why, we have to discuss inbreeding. (chuckles) Fun sentence to say. We have to discuss inbreeding, guys. Okay. Headphones out. (chuckles) Such a small population is typically a big, big, because of a thing called genome erosion. That's kind of the fancy word for the consequences of inbreeding. It's in the title of the paper. Obviously you get half half your DNA from your dad. - But if your mother and your father are very closely related, those letters, those DNA fragments, will look exactly the same. - This can be a problem First, genetic diversity for a species to have. It's a good thing. You want that. - Genetic differences is typically seen as against future change. So, for example, if there and there is no diversity it is, for example, less likely that there will be an individual that has that diversity that's required to survive a disease. - The other problem with inbreeding is that harmful mutations are If there are only so many so many humans to have a baby with, so many, you know, whatever the chances of you increase a lot. You could even get a harmful mutation from your father and your mother, and then you're probably - So, I don't know how familiar you are with European history, but for example, you have - I was gonna say. - Those kings or those people typically had this big overbite and that, for example, is an when there's a lot of inbreeding going on. - A big chin, big overbite, it might seem like a silly something for us to make fun of, but out in the wild especially, it could genuinely how you're breathing, how good you are at running Inbreeding could also do For the long-term health of a population, it's just not great. So, I was honestly really surprised to find out that only eight that lasted for 6,000 years. Obviously I'm not a geneticist, but my sort of, I don't I would've thought eight founding members would've been far too few animals, that this would be inevitably Is that a fair assumption? Is that what you would've expected? Would you expect such a small - I think that's a very fair assumption. And actually one of the leading theories before we actually dug into our own data was that mammoths went extinct exactly because their initial So, we expect to happen in is to have a lot more They might lose genetic diversity. They might accumulate harmful mutations. So, thinking about all those things that can happen in a when we started the study, we were expecting that due to this genomic deterioration, due to this genome erosion. - [Stefan] But that's not what - So, what we found is that by maybe eight breeding individuals, but then seemed to have So, in less than 20 generations, it seems that the population grew back to about 300 individuals, which is actually a pretty given how small the island is. And what's maybe even more is that that population up until their extinction. - How do you explain that? How do you make sense What do you think is going on? - It's hard to explain. I think, yeah, again, maybe I think mammoths were just very effective at avoiding inbreeding. Maybe the conditions on were just good enough, to sustain this kind of population. And from what we know, the island was actually pretty stable from 10,000 years ago up until now. So, we do see that They did lose a lot of when the population became isolated. But after that, it looks like they were - There could be some that prevented the worst effects of inbreeding from occurring. Sorry, I had to include that clip, sorry. I just had to. (chuckles) For example, elephants, obviously their closest when a male reaches maturity, go out and find new partners. Maybe there was some with the mammoths of Wrangel Island. It's quite likely, in fact. As Marianne said, there looking at the mitochondrial that showed the female line possibly one herd, all very closely related We don't have good information about the Y chromosome. It's hard to say how closely - What we have to do is maybe but the Y chromosome is actually a very tricky It's very repetitive. There are a lot of regions that are very difficult to sequence. So, recently, actually have been published. So, maybe they could be the key to looking at the Y but at least when we were that was not available yet. So, unfortunately, we don't - So, if the mammoths on because they were so inbred, then why did they go extinct? Earlier, we discussed the possibility of humans putting pressure on the last remaining who are dealing with all That doesn't seem to be The mammoth bones are just almost where they fell. It's honestly the most beautiful and kind of sad, kind of There's just no evidence of modifying these tusks. There's no artwork, there's no cut marks, there's no unnatural placed in strange positions. All the things we see in the mainlands are just not there on Wrangel Island. And in fact, there isn't of humans making it to Wrangel Island until after the mammoths went extinct. Just to add a little bit of the oldest archeological site is called Chertov Ovrag. No, mammoth remains were It seems the people But there was a few and seals and things like that, but mainly it seems They had stone tools with them. There's no evidence of mammoth hunting from this earliest site. And it dates to about 400 years after the mammoths went extinct. Obviously our information can change, but at the minute, we of humans hunting mammoths So, if it wasn't humans and the population had seemingly recovered from its lowest point, why are they dead? Why are they extinct now? - So, that remains somewhat of a mystery. We've already been thinking but given how suddenly we think it must have also So, some things that could have happened is maybe a disease outbreak, you know, a new virus entering the island through, for example, birds and basically wiping out What could have also happened is maybe one or two harsh winters or two bad years in terms of weather causing there to be too little food for the mammoths to survive. We've been thinking about So, some of the things are maybe a bit more exotic than others, but whatever it was, it must have been something - Going for a walk in the I can't believe how close we were to mammoths surviving in our timeline. From just eight individuals, they survived for 6,000 and then maybe just a couple Bird flu wiped them out. Yeah, we were so close to I know it's a bit of a meme that mammoths were alive when but the pyramids were 600 years old by the time the mammoth died. They made it to the Middle Kingdom. They practically made it Was it the Sea People? (chuckles) Did the Sea People wipe out the mammoths before they went to the Mediterranean? Who knows, man? Who knows? Who knows? We were so close. I'm gonna be honest, normally the stuff I talk it doesn't affect our It's for our intellectual curiosity. It's to satisfy our sense of self, our place in the universe. Of course, I'm not saying is useless or meaningless. It's the exact opposite. But day to day, realistically, This paper is different though, and I would love to show you how. Look at this map of the compared to the present-day tiger range. In a very real way, each of these dots is now a group of tigers probably forever isolated not by rising sea levels, What does this study say that we're making today? Are you optimistic about their chances? How do you feel about it? - Yeah, in a way, I think it's 'cause it shows that even a sudden decline, becomes very small, they can still recover, they can still grow back and then remain stable in that size. So, in a way, I think it's a - It is really kind of encouraging to know that animals can bounce back from very, very small population numbers. We just have to do it We can improve things. We really can. I don't want someone in about, &quot;Oh, man, we were so and elephants surviving We still have time to save them. Yeah, let's do it. Thank you for watching, guys. Peace. Hey, guys, thank you so much for watching. Couldn't really end the video imploring us to save the tigers and do absolutely nothing myself. So, I made a donation to My kids get a couple of as if they don't have enough already. And, yeah, hopefully the mammoths wouldn't mind me finishing donating to an animal that Yeah, sorry, mammoths. Yeah, thanks so much to the patrons. Thanks to Marianne for donating her time. See you on the next one. Thank you so much. Boop.