I think cosmos are probably but then I probably because they're all my favourite. Hey, it's Connie here. Welcome to my garden Today I'm super excited flower garden in summer and share with you some of my that you can grow So these flowers over here, They were my first love. So they were the first cut flowers that I started So you can get, like, which are decorative dahlias, and then can get really big ones that are Those are called And then you can also that are like pompom-sized. They do grow quite tall, so it's important when you are planting them. One tip I have a growing dahlias, is that when you first if it's about 30 centimetres you can snip the tip and then this because when you cut the tip off, then the side shoots start growing stems for more flowers. These super-pretty flowers over here, they're called China asters. I love them so much The good thing about asters is that they do bloom So towards the end of summer, is when I see these in bloom. If you look closely that it is very tall and skinny. So in that tiny space you can get, I reckon there's like So I feel like they're really they're really productive and they just have such Look at that! That's all from two plants. These flowers over here are scabiosa flowers. The name is really strange it comes from the fact that they to treat the itch of scabies, but they are also known which I find is a better name for them. And I just love them and they're so small and I feel like they make if you use them in vases You will notice with all your stop blooming, they will start So you can see this is a seed If you like, you can cut these seed the plant will stop putting energy into growing seeds on and instead produce But of course, then keep a few of These are zinnias. I love zinnias so much, I feel like they are I have these varieties a single layer of petals, where you have and they're like really big and fluffy. Zinnias love sun. They also like a bit of water, They are susceptible which is when you get those it's like a fungal disease on, for example, So my tip would be to water to help keep that at bay like a little drip There's a really easy way So what you do and you see if it's wobbly, then it is not quite But if you shake and it is stiff and rigid, If you pick it at that time, then that is when it will These cosmos flowers, There's only a few plants here. Maybe there's -- I think But you can see that they just have So I feel like they're Cosmos flowers are really drought So even though they look very very hardy in your garden. They can grow quite tall, so these ones here But the one behind me, grows really tall, so These ones over here, So you can see these ones They're more fluffy, but these ones and I think they're so delicate, they look like little fairies These are called snapdragons. So I used to know snapdragons because my dad would grow them and they'd be red, and then the green leaves And I wasn't much but I recently discovered get different So if you look here, you can see this one's got mixes of pink, orange and yellow And I think they just look When you're harvesting when they're, kind and you just cut them remove the bottom leaves One interesting thing is that you don't need when you are sowing them to germinate, So you just scatter and that will help it germinate. The last flower I wanted tansy flowers over here. So these flowers are they're actually more or like a companion flower repel ants or aphids But I wanted to share because I wanted to show you that it doesn't have to be a cut flower in order to be able As long as it has a long then you can pretty So I really like these because they have And then if you look at it, they have like an umbrella And I think they look so because they really and these little yellow flowers, So, I really love making with the flowers I always just start off with, If the stem's too long, and then just remove all of the leaves so they don't make the water dirty. ...put some here. I feel like it's always easier to start with your bigger flowers. so you can kind of I just put mine straight into the vase But if you want, you can use, just to give it I like doing my flowers because I like it and it has a bit of a bounce to it. So there are short and then there tall ones I feel like it looks really nice like that. I feel like there is nothing better than a fresh garden arrangement. Just look how pretty it looks.