All right. The project at hand right now So I built this a number of years ago. The idea was just to have a bunch of covered space for a garage, And it's okay. But a couple issues. One, the roof is so high on this thing some of this stuff may as well be outside pretty far. And the wind blows the rain in there, Going to close it in and put garage doors on it. That way the wind doesn't blow the rain Blue and Cody, come here Got the labs Looking good. No more mud. Still got some gravel left. Right. Can I see that? Can I see that? Blue, are you going to chase Frisbees with him? I just spent the day moving snowmobiles, It's been sitting there like a month. And let's also move. I haven't started this in years. I think so. Let's see if that starts. that is way better. That thing gets stuck in this gravel so easy Watch her get stuck there I got to sell that. It's worthless She's learning how to operate that. She will get it Who is that dog? Blue, is that your brother? Okay, so take this one off here. You want that one off? This one goes here That wire is thicker, use that one Blue drinks that water all the time. Yeah, I know, but he doesn't stop drinking Moss What are you doing? your brother likes that bucket, too. All right, Dumpster Dave is buying this. "Dogs growling" They are friends. You guys are friends right? I can pet Moss Blue gets jealous Blue, who am I petting? Who is this? Fill it up right? That raises Is it coming out of this? Put a little more in there, but we need to find a way to prime this. I mean if that was a full tank But yeah, sure, I don't, I don't really want to put 100 gallons why aren't we seeing any fuel? Chris ran this out of fuel? No, see there is nothing coming out. there's some fuel. We got some fuel running here It is dripping out Look how hot these get right away. Pull it back more. Hang on. It's not getting fuel This is clogged up here. All right, so that's on. We just blew out the whole fuel line. I mean, I'm not seeing any fuel. Keep doing it, we are getting fuel now Yeah, I'm getting getting better flow now Keep doing it This works, but it needs a bunch Can I see the frisbee? Perfectly straight. Look how good these guys are being Needs to go down a touch My buddy just bought this brand new Bronco. I want to put up on the lift Right there, that is good I drove it up from Flordia I mean, that's pretty nice. It's got skid plates. Look at that That's pretty good. Nothing is hanging down stupidly. Ford Motor Company This is a 2023? Yeah. It's got the shocks with the extra reservoirs. I mean, this is pretty cool. control arms. No rust nice being brand new. It's nice to have something like that. No, I'm definitely thinking about it. A lot of things I like about this, one two three Go to the end, twist the handle all right and that is ready for concrete. So I came up with 39 yards I probably didn't need to go so thick. I mean, it's 12 inches But you could have put some gravel in here to save some money on concrete because gravel is cheaper than concrete I was up to 18 inches in that corner. You know what? I'd rather just have extra thick concrete. All right, cool. That's ready to go for tomorrow. I haven't used that in a couple of years. Needed some new parts. And this is what we're trying to fix with this building. See, the roof is so tall when it's raining or snowing, like the stuff on the edge You can see where the slab is wet little bit of rain. Driver: Right to the top of the wood? Yes Yeah, that's good, throw it in there Lift up the rebar? Yes, lift it with the tool, try to get it down there too All right, I'm going to end this video on getting this So that took care of moving some stuff around, Next video I'm going to hiring pour four foot high concrete I want them to be stamped So it looks nice. And I have a garage door on the side and six across the front. And then same thing on the other side, and a person door right there. So I'm happy with how this turned out. What do you think Blue?