Hi Guys Tanmay this side from Veggie Paaji and in this episode of Saturday Fun Video, we are in Majnu Ka Tila area of Delhi. Right now we are standing outside the Center Temple, this is a market where a lot of amazing food is available. And it is available at a very reasonable price. Today we will explore this market and we have a challenge to fill our stomach by eating food in Rs. 5500. We have to find things and enjoy watching the video till the end. Let 's start brother laughing. How much is it? 50 is the driver's supi wala dry. Make one thing first of all, after coming to Majnu Ka Tila, you have to eat laughing. What is that dry thing? Later, I will tell you. First you see how it is made [music]. The first thing we have taken is dry laughing and soupy laughing of our 00 challenge. We get two things. What is laughing in the mound basically? It is made of potato starch. Brother, it is made of potato. The smoothness of potato is the smoothness of flour. This layer of flour is the starch. I had read a little and found that it is potato. And there is starch or all that in the flour, there is soybean inside it and eight out of 10 people do not like this in the taste. It is very important for you to know this thing. If you are coming to Majnu's Deela and before eating anything, you should You must eat this, it is basically a Pahadi snack, there are rolls of laughing flour inside it, as told to you, soybean is taken in all those things and its taste is quite different and its meaning is very difficult to explain, come and try it. Must form an opinion and this is such a thing that many years ago, Majnu Ka Tila was available only in Majnu Ka Tila, now it has become famous and has started being available at other places in Delhi, but it is literally recognized like Chole Bhature of Delhi. The identity of MKT market in Delhi is laughing. I will tell you the truth, when I ate this for the first time 10-12 years ago, I thought it was very bad but I think laughing has now grown on me and now I like it. Soybean spicy sauce, that garlic chutney and that outer rena, I like it very much, so come and try it, who knows, maybe you will like it the second or third time. Now we have 430 passes left but 50 are not available in this market because there is no food here. There are many things to do, the next thing is moving on [music] This market is about 1 kilometer long from one corner to the other and we were just in the main part of it, now we will go a little deeper, but if you come here How will you bring your car, I don't know because there is no official parking here but it is a very fun place. I have figured out the next two things to come, what to eat. Firstly, corn dogs have become very viral these days. They will eat and the other one will take something like Tibetan snack type. Our budget is less so we will see that we can optimize as many things as we can. Being a desi guy, should I eat 810 things in 00? Victory feeding will come, after this the market is over here, I have come. Think, it was a little too long, not 1 kilometer, it is 500 meters from one corner to the other, now which dog are we looking for, we had the dog on that side, so let's go back there, let's get the code, brother, this market is expensive, I think it is worth 50 rupees. Jo laughing khaa hai is the cheapest 50 s bubble tea 10050 k condo 10 things Now I am afraid that panch cheez bhi baji baji kha le aapka to jeetehi hai [Music] As the trends keep changing in that, so do the food. Dishes also keep changing. This corn dog is basically Korean corn dog. It is very famous all over the world. Nowadays, Majru Ka Dhala has caught hold of this tent. Its veg version contains potatoes and cheese. This one is pure cheese. According to me, after frying it, I have given some dry fruits, some ketchup, some spicy chutney on it and coriander on it. There was no need to add coriander on everything, but brother has added it so we eat it. Now let our editor do the maths. My maths is a little weak . Flash a big number of 0 on the screen to see how much money we have left out of 500. Okay, its taste is like mozzarella cheese stick. Do you eat that in restaurants? I personally didn't like that thing that much after putting ketchup on it. I think a better corn dog can be found in this market. We bought it from some random place. I really feel like exploring another corn dog in this market, but right now I am in the budget. If I can't spend 0 more, then in some other video I can see which dog thing, if you eat it from a good place, it will taste good. Actually, which dog is not like this? It looks like there is mustard sauce, there is ketchup, that is what happens. It is similar in appearance and different in taste also. [Music] Majnu Ka Tila There are some things in the market which are a must try, among them bubble tea has become a trend these days. It has become very expensive. It was very difficult to get bubble tea, I first found a bubble tea worth Rs. 50. Was looking for 200 rupees, then saved 50, add it to your budget, now it is 150 rupees, now editor, put a big one here, how much is our balance left, so what is Bubble D, it is the national drink of Taiwan, it is national tea, it is popping bobas. So the ones that burst in the mouth and are the same as tapioca are the grains of sago, they are crunchy, this one is taro flavored, meaning it is like a brother type of sweet potato, its flavor is different in taste. This boba is very average, doesn't it look very strange Bubbles 50 wasted money, study at the next place, still not going well, this challenge, let's fix it, find something good, when we were young, there used to be a big rumor That brother, first hand first copy Nike shoes are available in Majno Katila and all that. The market of shoes is very famous here. You will get a huge collection of Air Jordan etc. You will get a lot of variety of clothes here, you will get the vibe of complete Tibet, you will get the vibe of the mountains and you will get more. When I went back to Cultural Gay, I was getting the full feel of Sikkim and in the day time, the sunlight that comes out of the small streets and falls on the face, I was just emerging from the shock of the fun bubble when I went back. Found this Laughing Express type C shop, so we had taken the laughing but then I remembered that Bhai Majnu has brought Gati, momos are ready to be eaten, there was another shock of 0 and now momos are also in our hands, quite literally, the last two things are like this. Have eaten or not even average thing is looking good but moms decent not good not bad chutney is dangerous spicy typically what you expect from such type of chutney instead of super duper spicy what is this what is this what is draw chi this is yag thing Yes, it is a geek thing, how do you get it, how much does it cost, how much does it cost, 550, 550, 550, okay, this is the same, these are cookies, cookies, this is how much is this, this is a piece of 20, a piece of 20, if you don't get anything then You can eat this and this, they will be two different things, this is out of budget, it is 50, this is that, that means you keep eating slowly, that means if you go to the mountains, then it is light and completely dry. No, I have seen this, I saw it in Bhutan, maybe there is Prime etc. How much is Prime, it is 400, 400, so all these things are there, guys, if I don't get anything then I will try this thing and I will try this thing, now I have Rs If there are 10 left then I think there are 130 worth of Rs10 left, not 0 left worth Rs10. If we get that thing then it's ok, otherwise we will come here like this. In Majnu's deal, you will find these Pahari Tibetan snacking things. You will also get Tibetan pickles, Tibetan goods, cheese, dried cheese, snacks, snow cookies, all these things are also available, what is this, what is incense, those incense sticks , incense sticks, there is a small lane here, come here at night, you will feel very scared but it is the same day. I also enjoy coming here. I have just come to this place and I had talked to the owner of this place. I have 0 budget left and their ramen is of 130 rupees, so please give me a discount of 10 rupees, please do not give it to me, please thank you. Big thumbs up to you that you made us adjust, our actual difference was only Rs. 00. Today we were eating market food, so 0 rupees would have been left. However, your ramen costs Rs. 130. Yes, veg ramen, thank you, so this is veg ramen. I am saying that the tikki that she adds is veg tikki type C and the rest is miso base, miso base remains, yes it and those vegetables etc. remain there and ramen noodles, this is okay spicy medium, that is, it means milder than normal. Much first, our sauce is mo miso paste, beso is the best, it is good, you make it yourself, how is it, our own sauce is homemade, that means it is not instant noodles, okay, home made, this ramen must have just arrived, I think, it became popular in the recent few years, now a little here Raman has become more popular and dog too has become popular recently. Bubble tea has also become popular. I think it has become popular in the last four-five years. Earlier, laughing and momos were the main trend in the market. Laughing did not come later, but momo came later. Earlier momos used to be available, yes but then after a point, laughing became the identity of the market. Well, they are decorating it like Ramen. Some soupy soupy thing has to be placed below it. Yes, and this is the main of Ramen, which will become that in a way. Yes, mix it, the photo that comes is perfect type C, there is a box on top, you can add anything, it is up to you [Music] So, we said Ramen from a place called Bato, we mean very good, very beautifully decorated. Time to eat guys, I was not practicing in picking up chop sticks, I hold chop sticks in the dirtiest way . Nice good ramen and 0 I have bought it for 120 because of good negotiation skills but I am getting this ramen for 13, it is quite good in this. No because this is veg ramen, look at this, if you come closer you will see that it has been put like potato tikki and along with it, it has given different bases, it has also put a Japanese sauce like type, below it is miso paste, this is box tea which I was showing you, right, at various places in the market, you will see people selling Bock tea and below that, Ramen, this is basically the noodles soup is called Ramen, so this is the noodles and this is soupy and along with it, there are comments [music] There was a saying by some great person. It is said that all is well that ends well, this part of this video was the best. How did you like the video? Tell me in the comment section what you want to see in the next Saturday Fun video. 500 challenge, just like the Delhi one, we got it completed with Jugaad, by the way, 510. Tha We Made It To 500 And The Conclusion Is That Majnu Ka Deala Market Is Expensive 00 Mein Sirf Paanch Cheez Aayi Hai Will Talk In The Next Video Okay Bye [Music]