LARSON: Well, the Q&amp;A time is something -- particularly enjoy doing with all of our guest speakers, And, it's an informal time of discussion and These are questions that you've written and There is no way that we can get to all that judicious as possible with the time allotted And would you join me in welcoming first-time and Dr. Mohler, and Dr. Lawson. We'll, we're going to jump right in, but Dr. it's so good for you all to be here with us. I'm very grateful for you making this journey. Dr. MacArthur, we know that you had a wonderful Can you tell, just the folks there, just, came and from how many different countries? MACARTHUR: Thank you, Chris. We had about 5,000 plus about 1,100 of our around campus from about 70 nations of the It was amazing. It was being translated on campus as well there were different language speakers on Just a tremendous opportunity. The theme was 'We Preach Christ.' There were, by the time we hit Sunday, 17 of them exalted Christ. It was just a -- we all felt like we had gone to build booths and live there. LARSON: So you've gone from glory to glory MACARTHUR: Glory to glory, yeah. No, no, this is just -- this is the lateral move. LARSON: Alright. We're going to jump right in. Not directed to any one particular term 'Reformed' to a person unfamiliar with LAWSON: Well, I think when we say 'Reformed' That we have come back to the Bible, and allow Dr. Sproul has an entire book on what is Reformed theology. I would say certainly the foundation is the pinnacle is the glory of God above all things, is the purity of the gospel: How sinful man And, as well as, as what we heard today earlier purity of worship in spirit and in truth. Certainly the five 'solas' and the five points that mix as well. So when I think of Reformed, in essence, God deformed by false teachers, or tradition and and Reformed is to simply bring it back to So, man, by his failure to properly teach put it back to the form as God had originally LARSON: &quot;Is our heart still deceitful above desperately sick after we are born again?&quot; Referencing Jeremiah 17:9? MOHLER: I think the answer has to be yes I mean, first of all we understand immediately wicked and beyond our understanding. That's how we can understand and interpret Frankly, that's how we can understand the It is the knowledge of a depravity, the heart And so we can thoroughly understand that in It has to be affirmed comprehensively. Desperately wicked. Who can understand it? Deceitful. But even as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ is being promised a new heart. So, in one sense the answer is no. It's not the same heart. This is a heart that has been converted. It's a heart that is regenerated. It's new. It's a new heart. But sanctification's a process. Justification's punctiliar. Sanctification is a process and sanctification's Our sanctification's only completed in our It's accomplished in Christ, as Paul makes us it's something for which we are still waiting, we as Christians, perhaps as a sign of maturity, we can't explain our own heart. But those who have a new heart in Christ know us astray and instead to lean into Jesus and So there's a distinction, but I think, in and no, but thanks be to God the final verdict LARSON: &quot;How should I share the gospel when MACARTHUR: Well, I can jump in while they're I think you want to honor God. You want to be faithful to the gospel, but You want to be responsible. You want to take the long view and not the You have a responsibility to provide for your If you don't do that you're worse than an You also have a responsibility, and this is that you're submit yourself to your master, You don't overturn that submission. You don't run roughshod over that submission Great Commission. I think you want to be as wise as you can And I would just encourage you to make those the Lord opening a door for you on a personal If you ask the Lord to give you opportunity, but I think it's irresponsible for you to and duties as somebody who's employed by someone, their resources with the expectation that you know, whatever the standard of that organization the gospel for those times when it's right And again, you should be helped along with draw His own. He will draw His own to Him and He will find You just want to be the one ready and eager and gracious way to exercise that privilege. LARSON: &quot;Often I hear the phrase, 'God loves you,' proclaimed to a group of people, which may include both Christians and non-Christians. Is this biblical to say that phrase to just SPROUL: Well, when we look at the concept that have to be made. Historically and theologically we distinguish There is the love of benevolence, where God benevolent will, His benevolent love falls But there's also the sense in which the Bible God's beneficence. That is, that's not just simply what His attitude that goodness universally. The rain falls upon the just, as well as on of the love of God is manifest. But usually when we're talking about the love -- what we're talking about is what we call And that term, 'the love of complacency,' term complacency in our age, in our culture. Our term of complacency means smugness, self-satisfaction. That sort of thing. But rather when the Scriptures indicate the that God has for His Son and all of those His family. And if we talk about the love of God and His about it universally, that's blasphemy, because of complacency. The fact the Scriptures tell us that there the world. He hates the world. He hates those who are swift to shed blood, When I hear preachers stand up and say that to scream and say, &quot;Wait a minute, then why Why does He call us to come to the cross? Why does He call us to come to Christ? If God loves everybody unconditionally then you think, and -- but that's just not true, condition by which He requires. He doesn't just invite people to come to His of their sins and to come to Christ, and if you have to be in Christ. LARSON: &quot;What does it mean when we confess SPROUL: When we say that Jesus has a reasonable nature He is a duality. He's body and soul as all human beings are, when we talk about -- in that sense the term word 'mind,' and God has created us in our God Himself is a rational being, and God has that He has made the capacity for reasonable And I know we live in a time that is one of periods of the history of the church. Not that people are opposed to academics or investigation, scientific inquiry. But it's anti the mind. Anti being rational. People think that Aristotle, for example, Aristotle didn't invent logic. God did, and that what Aristotle, I mean, invented America. He discovered it. He found it. And you know, the late Christian philosopher When he exegetes John 1 &quot;In the beginning and so on. It's &quot;En arche, ein ho logos.&quot; And actually Gordon Clark interpreted that, &quot;In the beginning was logic, and logic was that the -- that rationality has it's foundation is a communicable attribute of God that in reasonable thinking. MACARTHUR: But don't you think also it's shell with only a divine mind? SPROUL: He had a human mind. MACARTHUR: He had a human mind. SPROUL: Right, with the all the limitations MACARTHUR: Right, right. SPROUL: That in touching His human nature Touching His divine nature He was absolutely we must distinguish them or all kinds of mischief MACARTHUR: Fully God, fully man, with all SPROUL: Well, I prefer truly God and truly you say that Jesus was fully God and fully was absolutely, totally God, and that's all, Or if you say He was fully man, then there's That's why we like to say 'Vera Homo, Vera Truly God, truly man. You're with me on that. MACARTHUR: That's what I meant. That's what I meant. SPROUL: I knew that's what you meant. Why, Johnny Mac, do you always make LAWSON: John, he's corrected me in a Q&amp;A on LARSON: Dr. MacArthur, you spoke in your 2016 malpractice. Can you tell us what you meant by that? MACARTHUR: What year is this? Yeah, any failure on the part of a pastor, in a way that is not sound in doctrine and Clergy malpractice. I went through a clergy malpractice lawsuit Ended up in the United States Supreme Court, That was a legal experience of what the courts us from the accusation that we had committed and judgment, which they said -- the plaintiff to feeling guilty that led to that person's suicide. The lawsuit went for ten years. It went through all kinds of courts. I gave testimony on the stand and courts, It went all the way to the US Supreme Court. That is the opposite of clergy malpractice. That is doing what you must do which is to That you have to be faithful to the Word of to catalog all of the clergy malpractice going Bad theology and bad practice combined together, LARSON: This person writes in and says, &quot;I'm How can I best prepare students as they head faith out, 1 Peter 3:15?&quot; MOHLER: That is a really sweet question, and teaching 13-year olds in the school. That's just magnificent, and for a teacher those students, knowing they're on the threshold Aristotle's been quoted once. I'll go back to him. Aristotle, I'll paraphrase here, basically He's speaking of men, who are the boys who He said there're two times to get a boys' one to five, and then between the ages of After that he's a lost cause, said Aristotle. But you understand that those are two very You know, the period from one to five is when Identity and leaves with the world picture. A world picture. The Germans were good at making these words But when a child leaves high school, he or Those are two different things. The difference is the complex analytical capacity The ability to understand one mind among other To understand that what this child has received else receives from their mom and dad. What they receive from the preacher is not There are alternative worldviews. So, I would simply say that there's an offensive Both of them are very important. Offensively, we need to help students when truth claims and worldviews, because they're authority of God's Word. Build in them in so far as there is your possibility to trust the Word of God. There's no way you can comprehensively prepare going to face, but you can at least model and to know that there is a way of understanding And then defensive, it's very important. Their hearts. It's not just their minds, it's their hearts, let them know a battle for their minds in And, so the defensive play is not only as them, but also just to help them to understand of competing affections that are going to Let your affection for Christ be something LARSON: &quot;How would you counsel a wife of Reformed particularly as it relates to teaching their them to know, love, and serve God?&quot; MACARTHUR: Well, I guess I live in that world Hispanic people there, and it's very common. And even some people from Asia, who have been to Christ, and that is a very, very common And it takes all kinds of forms. Sometimes they shut them out of the church. They won't allow them to come. They won't allow them to read the Bible in They won't allow them to communicate the gospel In other cases, they're indifferent, and that case that you work with. But again, the balance is, you know, 1 Peter, a submissive wife, but at the same time, you the apostles said, when they told them to You know, I have to -- I must obey God, but that your obedience to God makes you a better a better mother in every way. I think that's what has to be demonstrated. Not that you're some kind of an antagonist that takes some of the gentleness of the Holy At the same time that you give honor to the the husband, because that's an ordered home place in life and the future that provides But at the same time, behind that you've got husband, because the issue here is, you know, and while he may resist the wife's pleas, the prayers of the children are pretty powerful So that's kind of the general instruction although they're very different in each case. LARSON: &quot;Act 17:27 refers to mankind seeking that man cannot seek God. With the rise of seeker churches, how should SPROUL: Well, when you talk about Acts 17 quoting some of the pagan poets and everything, They have the statute to the unknown god, On the other sense, when you're talking didactically what the natural human condition is, quoting of it, the Apostle Paul makes it very clear -- no one in their natural state seeks after Now, Thomas Aquinas had to answer this question &quot;Why is it that it seems to us that people or not Christians, seem to be seeking after no man seeks after God?&quot; And Aquinas answered the question this way, &quot;What we observe is people seeking things From our perspective we know that the only their guilt, is if they come to Christ. We know that if they're ever going to find We know that if they're ever going to find it's only going to be in Christ. Without Christ they're without hope. But they are looking all over the place for That is, the benefits that God gives, while of their strength and might from Him. From the being of God. So, if you want to have a seeker-sensitive is that you organize and structure your worship because the reason why churches exist in the They're for worship and for the gathering to the study of the Word of God, to prayer, and that sort of thing. Now, the whole church is responsible to do itself, in terms of worship, and the gathering Now, I use evangelism all the time in the that there are people who are there that aren't but if I tailor the program for the unbeliever, Testament teaches, and what the Word of God So, this whole movement of seeker sensitivity and expects. And what it is, is Jim Boice used to say where the Lord's work in the world's way. And it works. It works, I mean, as far as people will come make them feel comfortable and all of that. So, when you talk about seeker sensitivity you design consciously, worship for the unbeliever; MACARTHUR: Just a footnote. Probably the most dramatic illustration of The church was born on the day of Pentecost. 3,000 believers are added to the 120 in the apostles' doctrine, the breaking of bread, and the Lord added daily to the church those They were doing miracles. They were doing miracles, rapid-fire miracles. The healing of the lame man, and other miracles, That was attracting the people to the church. You might say that's a good thing. No, the Lord had to halt to that. The Lord Himself had to stop unbelievers from so what He did was kill two people at the He literally killed publicly Ananias and Sapphira. Ananias there were -- that morning he dropped how much money he actually gave off the sale Three hours later when his wife showed up I like a three-hour church service, but I Anyway, when she shows up, the burying the husband pick her up and bury her. And it says in Acts 5, &quot;None dared join himself The Lord shut the door in the book of Acts the signs and wonders by frightening them When the church recovers its transcendent becomes devoted to the glory and honor of that our Lord wants it to make to the world, that His sovereign will calls. SPROUL: I'm going to just say that that's on Saturday, on what the goal of reformation so maybe I shouldn't even bother to -- you're just preach the thing. MACRTHUR: I'm just glad you agree with me LARSON: &quot;How would you define a false teacher, are considered false?&quot; SPROUL: Vesta's going to be really after me you ask a question I have to ask Al what it The one thing I have in common with my mentor there quickly, but my hearing aids interfere hearing and breathing. When is a false teacher a false teacher is MOHLER: I would just add to that, &quot;Amen.&quot; But I think there is in the New Testament who teaches falsely, but who is uncorrectable, I mean, Apollos was a false teacher, but when preach a better way, how to be more faithful So there's a difference between a false teaching, especially, is going to teach something that's That's quite different than being, I think, SPROUL: And the chief characteristic of his teaching is falsehood. MOHLER: That's right. SPROUL: We all err, make -- Calvin said no and the problem was we don't know which that 50 percent. MACARTHUR: But I think we need to say that there that you are false if you deny the Trinity. If you deny the deity of Christ. If you deny His sinless life, substitutionary gospel. I mean, that's the drivetrain of truth. Saving truth. Those are not negotiable. You can misunderstand baptism or something SPROUL: Those we call errors, not heresies. I mean there's a difference between error Heresy is something that strikes at the very Yeah. LARSON: Should I just end this before it gets SPROUL: This is not fair. I'm outnumbered here. It's hard to be a true teacher. MOHLER: I know what's behind that screen. LARSON: Trying to bring it back in. &quot;In what ways -- in what ways is our current out of the church?&quot; MOHLER: Yeah, that's a great question, and question. We all wanted in on that one, because that's But one of the interesting things to note churches, because that fit a certain cultural &quot;You can gain a bit of social capital by coming You can -- there's some value added to your If you just come and be with us, we'll add non-threatening way.&quot; But in the hardening secularization that we're social capital to hang around with anyone They're going to forfeit social capital. They're going to run a risk for being members There once was a time when -- especially someone, and he wanted to -- he had his family. He wanted to be able to raise his children. He wanted to be able to sell life insurance. He had to have credibility. Join credibility by -- that is, add credibility First Presbyterian Church. That was just what people did in an age of Well, now you may fail to become a partner of a Bible-believing, gospel-teaching church. The mushy middle is disappearing because in the word persecution -- but in a time of hardening people are running a risk to hang around with to disappear in a hurry because the pressures LARSON: &quot;Given the failure of many ecumenical unity without compromising doctrine?&quot; LAWSON: I think it goes back to what Dr. MacArthur I mean there is common ground in believing His virgin birth, sinless life, substitutionary His soon return, the final judgment, eternality I mean, if you can't come together and agree You're not inside. You're outside the faith, and we in a true on these gospel truths, and these are things you're not willing to die for these things, believe these things that are truly essential. And all -- everything in the Bible is important are some things that rise to a higher level unto you,&quot; introduces some of those. And Paul would say, &quot;I delivered to you of Those are the things that we can come together these, then what Dr. MacArthur's going to preach God is upon you. So to me that's where we come together, is that are non-negotiable. I mean, we can't give up one inch on this. MOHLER: Absolutely, and thus you follow though moments like Nicaea, let's remember Nicaea here's a bad Christology.&quot; Nicaea said, &quot;Here's Christianity and here is 'Let there be anathema'" - "Let them be anathema." This is to be identified as heresy. But as you follow that through, I just want by the time you get to the Reformation we by faith alone in that top tier, such that article by which the church stands or falls is no Christianity. There is no gospel. SPROUL: I believe -- I believe the first question, is Reformed theology. What does it mean to be Reformed? And anybody who is Reformed is first of all ecumenical truths of the ecumenical councils, and so on, so that we all share that same And you move to the sixteenth century, and which takes its word from the -- meaning from was a rallying around the doctrine of justification So anyone who is Reformed, is also evangelical, but at the time of the Reformation there were Lutherans, Reformed in Switzerland, and so Episcopalian in England, and you had all these But though they had differences among themselves, truths, and then also the two primary affirmations on, was one: Justification by faith alone, And two: The authority -- absolute authority And it's only in recent decades that that collapsed, where you can't assume now that believes in justification by faith alone, But when you go beyond the broader term evangelical to the narrow distinctives of Reformed theology, the evangelical truths. But there's more to that. There're also specific things, like you mentioned MACARTHUR: Just to -- where I think people that they may be one, they assume that's a That is not. That prayer is answered in the forming of That is a prayer that all believers would praying believers into heaven, so that is We are one. We are the body of Christ. That prayer is answered. That's different then how do Christians get Then you go to Philippians 2 and you talk with each other by not looking on your own Don't consider yourself better than anybody That's a whole different issue. There's nothing in the Bible that assumes well with fake believers. That's not going to happen. The true church is one in Christ. We need to do a better job of loving each one with those who hold a false form of Christianity. LARSON: Well, that was our last question for this particular Q&amp;A, and before we adjourn, Dr. MacArthur is going to leave and go to his book signing in just a minute, but the teaching fellows and Dr. Sproul have a special announcement, but would you thank our panelists this afternoon?