(upbeat guitar music) - If you asked me if I in a tiny home or in a small space, I'd say probably not. - When we first intended we thought our neighbors But, instead, people love it. If anything, people for a bar or restaurant. And so at night, when we're hanging out with friends drinking a glass of wine, there's a little confusion and see this well-lit You know, they walk up and go like, what are you serving? - When we first had this idea to turn the garage into our home, we decided that we wanted everything to be tucked away in a space so that when you walk in it's very clean, it's very sleek, it's very minimalist. - The overall look and feel, or aesthetic, of our place has somehow It wasn't part of the intent, but we built everything by hand because it fit what we had available and it fit our budget at the time. We found a community wood shop to go work at and I taught myself to weld. Started creating some and bar stools, chairs, end tables, and that aesthetic of the steel and reclaimed wood kinda spilled over into the cabinetry and the Our concrete countertops are The most difficult conversation when it comes to small What am I going to do with my stuff? Where am I going to put everything? Luckily, for us that was a bit of an easier conversation purged most of our belongings. - The process of downsizing was over the course of many years. At first, it was just and tucking them away and for a few months, then we From there we sold even because we were gonna road trip and our road trip was open ended, we didn't know what we were So to store stuff just didn't feel right. When you downsize and you get rid of a lot of stuff, there's A real simplification. (laughs) - Jen and I left our nine to five jobs to go travel and explore We moved into our 1967 very romantic idea, but as we calculated it. So that was our smallest living situation. After a year and a half on the road, we came back to Portland to say hi to friends and family and realized that we and we love our home here. We still had a three bedroom house that was sitting here being It was time for that lease to expire and we asked them to leave, and we realized that to fill a three bedroom And so it finally hit us that there's this garage that's going unused. That we weren't using, and we could just convert - Because Brian and I live in the garage, we are able to rent out the main house. It's a three bedroom, two bath. They pay, essentially, the mortgage and so Brian and I live in our garage rent free, mortgage free. - We both had jobs that probably should have been perfect jobs, you know? They paid well, but we just 70 hours a week, it just and Jen is kind of a hippy at heart and was always kind of saying we should run away and I don't know. I come from an upbringing that's not okay. And so I was like, that's not okay. What about our 401k? What about our savings and our retirement and the plan? We kind of compromised For me it wasn't just run away, it was have a buffer in our finances so when we came back we didn't We could actually try to do - Freedom is really our mantra right now. Freedom in our schedules, freedom to make choices As we're talking about the designs and what the space should be, we talked a lot about our lifestyle and what we wanted to do in this space. So we love to drink wine, we love to have people over. Brian fabricated a wine rack for us so that it's not just but it's also a beautiful piece. The house numbers are made out of screws. We had a whole bunch of screws - We wanted everything and so the bar on our island, for example, is an island bar and but then can spin out sit six people for dinner when our friends and family come over. That type of transitional space, or flexible furniture and uses, just allows our place to live much larger than it actually is. The stairs that allow is actually a set of cabinetry as well and so they actually push into our closet or our cabinets and then pull back out for us to climb up to the loft. - They were designed in mind so that she But one of my favorite places It's feels like you're outdoors, which I love, and there So (laughs) it's a bit romantic. - Basically our living space is intended to just spill out to outside. And so our largest luxury item in creating this space was this very large accordion door system that folds open to kind of remove the wall between inside and outside. Most of our living space becomes kind of our front yard as we open the doors and kind of hang out talking to neighbors and people that are biking and walking by. We met people who said, hey We want to live in a similar space or we want to remodel our home or our garage to do the same thing. And so we eventually Zenbox Design was born. Which is basically a small of helping people design tiny spaces. - You can do anything Just go after it, Don't settle. It's this beautiful and it's cheap livin' too. (laughs) (mellow bluegrass music)