A Dad Drank 50 Beers Everyday For 6 Weeks. This Is What Happened To His Brain. JW is a 42 year old man, presenting to the 15 minute seizure. Nurses use medicine to terminate his seizure, This didn't phase anyone, because this is room this month. JW was a dad. When his sons were young, he took them on He told them he was going to get some bread back. 12 years ago, JW started drinking every day. In the last few years, he had been admitted problems. He always told doctors about his boys, and in their lives. They're such good kids, he would say, but, He always ended up back with his beer. About 2 months ago, medical staff leaving see JW on the street nearby, sitting on the No one could do anything about it. Day in and day out, JW didn't drink to his 50 beers daily, was his only dietary intake clues as to what's happening to him. The medical team was familiar with drunk JW time, something's wrong. Alcohol is a nervous system depressant, meaning But a seizure, is all the of the brain processes action of a depressant. You don't usually seize when you're drunk JW is still breathing, it doesn't look like Drunk JW is not the one presenting to this else is happening to him. It's possible that he could be suffering Chronic, misuse of alcohol builds dependence. This is a time when structures in the brain in the body. Areas of the brain that are supposed to insulate meaning after repeat stimulation, more and level of inhibition. This is modulated by GABA which is an important insensitivity to it. So more inhibitor is needed to hold a constant This is called tolerance. But it's not done (finished) here. Alcohol also blocks a chemical in the brain in this area, more structures that receive that alcohol can't block everything, and the brain needs that excitation to function A chronic alcoholic's brain is physically had a drink for a few hours, electrical signals The increased number of glutamate receptors excited, resulting in status epilepticus, If he doesn't drink for just a short period JW seizes for the 6th time, and nurses terminate But how can we be sure that JW has alcohol In-between seizures, JW is confused, and disoriented. When asked when his last drink was, he can't even say his own name. If his only dietary intake was 50 beers everyday He has vitamin deficiency, which are well alcoholics. Both of these can be an easy fix. If he needs vitamins, give him vitamins, and Proteins can also be important, but more urgently, Hypo meaning Low Natrium as shown by its symbol on the periodic and -emia meaning presence in blood. Low sodium presence in blood. Chronic meaning this has been developing on us back to the 50 beers he drank everyday, Hyponatremia can also be the cause of his clue. 50 cans of beer, is more than 4 and a half to JW's body, daily. Interestingly enough, in the emergency room, that there hasn't really been a net flow His body is holding on to all of that liquid, beer, it's a staggered accumulation over But let's look at the name hyponatremia. Low sodium presence in blood. Low sodium fits because in 1 can of beer, This is about as much sodium as in 1 cup of When natremia is measured, it's reported a volume of body water. So low sodium presence in blood can be caused gallons of beer everyday. But this also means that a low value can be in to the body, everyday. Usually, hyponatremia is a problem with water when something is wrong. But if JW's only dietary intake for 6 weeks he has both a lot of water that he's holding beer doesn't really have salt in it. But sodium isn't the only electrolyte that Beer also doesn't have potassium. Potassium also has influence on body water JW also has hypokalemia, or low potassium Both sodium and potassium electrolytes interplay protein in the kidneys to help produce urine, although if he hasn't eaten for weeks, then and this could count as protein to make urea beer has carbs. Carbohydrates, which in the body, are broken Sugar induces the response of insulin, an of muscle meaning no urea is available for Along with hyponatremia and hypokalemia, these water because the kidneys need to exchange This beer potomania, Poto from an Ancient in this case to an excess, is a hypotonic problems. Samples of the little urine he's made since No solutes were found, meaning his urine was But, this should make sense. We've already established he's got a lot When someone is well hydrated, the urine is But well-hydrated in JW's case is an understatement-- overload. He should be puffy and swollen everywhere. He should be peeing every couple of minutes. But he isn't. He looks, mostly normal. So, where exactly are those hundreds of cans Well, body water is supposed to have 0.9% In the medical world, we call this isotonic. This means for every 1 liter of water, there table salt. 0.9%, is thousands of times more sodium content Most of the body's water isn't in the as 0.9% sodium chloride. Sodium creates something called an osmotic Which means wherever sodium is, water will In this small science experiment, I dissolve I submerge the tube in a pool of water that You'll see that water flows into the tube, So, if his body water has been diluted by in the cells is saltier. And because water flows towards sodium, then This would mean that his organs like his liver water. That should be ok, because the abdomen is But what about the brain? It's enclosed in a hard space. The skull has only room for a brain expansion the sides of the skull and ooze out into the blood flow as parts of JW's brain start This damage upon brain expansion is known in JW's case, bringing us back to his seizures. If JW's hyponatremia is caused by a low him just salt, will fix his problems. Interestingly enough, this is one of the few salt is the fix. But the medical team can't give him tablets Giving him anything by mouth could cause him So he's given a small injection of 3% sodium Small injection because he doesn't need And 3% sodium chloride being saltier than Within a few hours, JW produces gallons of His kidneys are able to exchange the salts body. His seizures stop, and he regains consciousness withdrawal. The medical team repeat the 3% sodium chloride to help with the cerebral edema. As the days go by, JW's sodium levels normalize. He is in stable condition. He gets vitamins and proteins. He recovers, and is well enough for discharge But just before doctors sign off on his discharge, His speech is slurred and incoherent. Neurology consult finds coordination deficits His movements in the limbs above his waist often missing the target at varying lengths. This is called dysmetria. Dys meaning wrong and metria meaning length. Similarly, he had dysdiadochokinesia, meaning movements was compromised. All of this pointing to possible neurodegeneration was corrected days ago because he didn't He's not ready to be discharged. As the hours go by, he becomes weak in all Nurses ask him to move his arms and legs, His muscles are floppy, as his limbs become And an MRI of his brain reveals that JW has Lysis meaning breaking down of myelin, the And central pontine referring to the central brain stem to deliver nerve impulses throughout If his hyponatremia has been corrected, and medical supervision, then how could he just Well, do you remember that name, chronic hyponatremia? Well, chronic means that his body had low at least weeks to months because of the 50 When sodium presence in blood starts decreasing, The brain does start to swell a bit in this called the cerebrospinal fluid, which flows inside the skull. When hyponatremia is chronic, the swelling, the brain is forced to pump out organic salts, swelling. These organic salts are like sodium in that them, too so when they're out of the brain, And because of this adaptation, this is why after just a couple of weeks of drinking 50 sodium day by day, the adaptions in the brain Sodium correction in a patient like JW is inside of his body, some of which are unmasked His adapted brain started to shrink in the Sodium and potassium, rushed in to his brain of those organic salts, because those take cells. When there is high sodium presence in a cell, The cell, thinks it's been mortally damaged those DNA breaks. This happens in all cells in the body and cancer. But in the brain cells, the myelin sheath to die again, leaving him paralyzed for life. Chronic hyponatremia is a completely different has not had time to adapt, meaning the correction in an effort to save someone from the cerebral Beer potomania can be difficult to identify for, because electrolyte disturbances are And chronic alcoholics may not tell you exactly what happened, because they may not even know themselves About 18% of patients who have beer potomania hypokalemia and hypophosphatemia are also since these patients are almost always severely Thank you so much for watching. Take care of yourself and be well.