Not all homeowners are blessed with spacious bedrooms where they can invest in any furniture without worrying about making their bedroom space more cramped. Some homeowners have to get by with limited space which means they have to downsize all the furniture that is prone to make their bedroom look smaller. If your bedroom is rather small, don't worry, try your luck with one or two of these 10 small space ideas to maximize a small bedroom. Check them out. As you already know this list is ranked for you by @Simphome.com 10. Add drawers under the bed. Some people think that staying as close to the floor as possible is the best way to survive in a small room. Wll nothing could be further from the truth. Trust me, you can expand the opportunity of organizing your bedroom better by raising your bed a few inches off the ground. By doing it, you'll be able to add a few drawers under your bed. You can make a few drawers with sliders just like this bedroom. You can also opt for a few boxes with casters for Less arduous underbed storage. 9. Bed and closet combo idea. Don't have a closet? no biggie. You can still organize your clothes and shoes well despite the limited space. Try investing in this bed and closet combo. This bed is raised about 4 ft so it has sufficient space for a closet underneath. It features a small door that allows for you to have easy access to the closet. The hydraulic support bars help make sure that the bed is at the desired angle while you are tidying up the closet or taking your outfit. Next to the bed are steps that provide an access to your comfy bed. 8. Multi-purpose storage Cube Idea. Thrift stores and flea markets can be a great place to find treasures. Not the real ones, though. I mean some used things that can become fruitful Furniture. If you tweak them a little bit you can even make an ottoman from a secondhand Cube that you can find in a thrift store. To turn this Cube into a fruitful ottoman you need to prime it and let it dry for about 24 hours then put two coats of black latex using a foam roller. After that apply a coat of polyacrylic. Now it's time for you to upholster it by attaching high density foam on top using spray adhesive which is reinforced with staples. Next, cover the foam with fabric and secure it with staples. Hide the Staples using white ribbon and finally, add four casters to the bottom. 7. A bed with adjustable height. Merging bedroom and living room is a common way to maximize the space of an undersized home. You can separate them using a curtain or any other room divider or you can go with a smart idea. If you have limited floor space try going vertical. This bedroom is unique. The bed hangs as close to the ceiling as possible during the day so you can have a conversation with your guest at a sectional sofa beneath. When it's time for you to hit the sack you can pull the bed to move away from the ceiling and sleep. Even better if your friend wants to stay for a night you can lift the bed a little bit and transform the sofa into a comfortable bed. 6. Corner closet without doors. The closet is one of your must have items as it can keep your bedroom organized however some closets tend to be bulky and take up a lot of space. Therefore, you need to ditch your closet. Having no closet is not the end of the world. You can still store your favorite outfits. You only need to make some shelves in the corner of your bedroom and add some curtain rods in them, so you can hang your t-shirts and trousers without compromising your available space. 5. Above the door shelf ideas. Every space in your bedroom is important including some spots that you think they are awkward, like the space above your door. The space between the door and ceiling offers you a potential storage space. You only need to make a wall-mounted shelf above the door to host some less used items that you might need someday. 4. Wall art and hidden jewelry box idea. If you are an artist who wants to have your own personal mini Gallery right in your bedroom, try this picture frame that does double duty as jewelry box. You just need to frame corkboard with plywood wood. Install hinges at the bottom and a cabinet door latch at the top to hold your new jewelry door. You may also need to attach some small hooks to the corkboard that help you hold your necklaces and bracelets in place. Finally, you can attach your Masterpiece on the door of this jewelry box. No 3. Bedroom storage Towers idea. If you still have sufficient space in your bedroom, don't shove the bed against the wall because you are going to make these twin shelves. They are actually two identical open shelves that are connected with another shelf that looks like a bridge. To make these shelves you are going to need to cut a plywood into some pieces and assemble them to form boxes. You will also need to add a cleat to sides to attach the shelves and for the bridge you need to assemble two pieces of plywood to form an L then attach it to both Towers. 2. Above the door closet idea. This is another brilliant idea to stay organized without taking up a lot of space. Try making your own closet above the door. The area above the door is often left wasted. Now you can use it to store your clothes. First you need to make some open shelves above the door and add a curtain rod in each shelf. You will also need to install a library ladder that allows you to reach your above the door closet more easily and safely. Before we get to no.1 I suggest you press subscribe button if this channel is new to you get new updates automatically every time I upload new videos and let's find out the last idea sitting on our top chart. No 1. DIY Corners shelf idea. Don't waste every potential corner you have because they can incorporate additional storage solutions. These shelves can host your favorite plants and decorative items well and the most important thing is that it's easy to make. You only need to cut 45deg angle on the end of 1x3 boards then assemble the pieces to form a 45deg triangle. Mount the Triangular shelf to the corner walls using wall anchors after being painted. Follow link inside description area if you're in doubt. So, try applying one of these ideas, add a Twist as you need, and you're good to go. Staying in style? you've got it. Holding the Clutter at Bay? they've got you covered. Oh and by the way in Simphome.com, you're going to find several lists that you cannot find in the other channel for instance 10 Small Galley Kitchen Makeovers, 12 Corner Cabinet Organization ideas, 12 Kitchen Cabinet DIY Makeover ideas, and many more This kind of list is compiled with more extensive research and more rigorous writing processes As usual the admin completed each of these lists with a relevant video that currently, as when this script is written, is free from the domination of ads So what are you waiting for If you have free time and internet access , once again, follow the link inside the description area and rip all benefits that Simphome has to offer. That's it for now, before you leave like this video if you truly enjoy it. Comment it or share it with anyone close to you in your social media account or email list. Lastly, see you again later with more videos like this in the near future and until that time thanks for watching....