Now we'll really sink into this culture, They want to end Let me explain, they don't represent They're telling us to stop recording. We'll be hosted by an ultra-orthodox After the incidents we've been seeing I feel obliged to deliver this statement A month and a half ago, I tried to go to the Gaza Strip, schools, hospitals, From Israel I was forbidden access, Right in the part of the border Since I couldn't get in, went back to Tel Aviv and Jerusalem the second part of You know I filmed a report about but I wanted to go deeper and sink into I made the most of my to carry out this report, but I have to put in context before the attacks, this level of war Not only do I want to use this brief that the goals of this report are but also to show my maximum disapproval These attacks, inhuman massacres, So now I'll leave you with the report. HASIDIC JEWS Some years ago, I filmed one of It has over 10 million views. But truthfully, as years have gone by, and it raises a feeling On one hand, I couldn't in this religion, these people, Perhaps it wasn't easy for me, but It also seemed, in many moments, That it was just information So, without further ado, Tomorrow we'll go to the traditional We'll go back, but in this case that's probably one of the most religious We have several days ahead where the reality of these people. We'll also correct different things and topics I touched years ago For that we'll count on the help They've been living here for years, and with them we'll be able to get That they talk and open up to us. Interviewing them, Hello, everyone, firstly, Ruben, it's a pleasure being with you Bnei Brak is really one of our because here you can and today we're doing a tour to learn more Seeing their everyday life, and also going We're in a Jewish study center. They're studying the Torah, and other books, A curious detail we can see This is a very known method Both people complement each other, Today we had a class with a rabbi and now I'm making a summary of it. I'm studying the book &quot;Shulhan Aruj&quot;, the book of Jewish Laws. Laws that speak on how to bless and pray correctly. Now we're studying together. If a person can't understand we also discuss about This is how we study at yeshiva. During Sabbath we don't do any kind of work. For example, it's forbidden to start a fire to cook. Because it's written that in 6 days, and in The most important thing here There are about 400 people who come daily There are many people here and then in many places of the world, they exercise it We have a paragraph that says that and it was passed unto Joshua that we're always connected to the past. When we're more connected to the past, There are places which are more touristic, this is a unique city that is This container behind us It means here they dispose of papers According to Jewish tradition, you can't in a common container. They have to throw them away We're in a book shop in Bnei Brak and something we can see behind me There are many curiosities, like all books Here we have an orthodox Jewish comic. You can see that all characters Here we have the grandfather Here we also have a book designed We can also see that which simply indicates that It's not that Gaston chose two books They only have that type of book. I asked if there was anything This one for example, it's the same. It's about the holocaust, There's no &quot;light&quot; entertainment, but always with a cultural Another interesting feature is that In this case it's not screens, In this publicity, only men There are also children, but always 3333 years ago, the people of Israel received the Torah and from that moment on we wrote each Torah on a scroll. As you can see here. Writing the Torah takes one year. And it's only made with natural materials. To be able to write the Torah, Everyday you must submerge and you must deeply believe in God. Not anybody can write the Torah. Now I'll show you the writing process. This is skin of an animal We process the skin like this. From that, we reach this scroll. There are 62 sheets of scroll It's sewn with a string The ink is produced from of these natural materials. Ah, I wanted to show you There are different sizes. This one is 10 centimeters long. - Everything is hand made, right? Now I'll show you an even smaller one. This one can only be read with This is half a page. But this is the size of the pages. We sell it for Around half a million dollars. The smaller it is, Because they write everything by hand. Reuben (Biblical name) - Tremendous. I'd never imagined It's really art, a very special art, The paper, which really is skin. The colors, the pigments, It moves a lot of money. A piece in this size Obviously, this is I've lived here since I was little. The feeling here in Bnei Brak you won't feel it anywhere else. During this time, you can feel the vibe This place, in the heart of Bnei Brak, is the most attended synagogue Thousands of Jews, you can see behind us come everyday to pray here. You can also see that here and only men can enter, Even those you see wearing hats, they have a Kippah under the hat. So let's see a bit more. These hear are the famous tzedakah boxes. They're donations They're not only in synagogues, we find them basically There always are at least This is related to the concept of Minyan. This concept says that 10 Jewish men So often times we can see that people go out to the street I must clarify something I said before, about only men being able There's an exception, women can enter As you can see, today's not the case, We're in a store that may look modern, at the same time, it also has typical dishes For example, this is Kugel. It's a noodle pie. We have other dishes but namely, the kugel, or this here, we see here something more industrial and these fish recipes, which are also typical Let's eat, this is one of the things This is the real kugel, the noodle one, We were corrected later. - Is it good? It's very nice. SECOND DAY I'm really content, happy with the experience Not only in the streets, but also And this direct, was thanks to Gaston and Oxana. Not just because of religion What I felt was Last time it seemed like I was filming so thanks a lot because all this feel and see it in a very different way. How many branches of Judaism, how many terms that change Gaston and Oxana have a channel where advanced in all these things, right? Yes, our channel is about that. And it's very important to say that I also want to add that There's not much information online, In our channel we try to explain We've been to places that Incredible events, like an We also went to houses We went to events It's a very amazing event in December, you're probably seeing images of it I also want to add, the biggest is that he can film and I can film and I can show the life of It's very striking because often just men and wonders, Are they home? No, they have a completely Yesterday we explored Now we're returning to the mega-orthodox where I filmed my famous report. The difference is that in Bnei Brak In this case, we find the more radical The ultra-orthodox Jews are Jaredites. But within the ultra-orthodox and that's the Hasidics, that is, most of the people Also, we're very close to a place that's very touristic That's why here the experience First, they're more closed and hermetic, and they don't like outside people, come in here to shoot photos and videos. That's why, with the help of a different experience Because here they're more radical, Also, we'll try to correct some features that Are they against the state of Israel? Do they believe in the Holocaust Do they live off of subsidies? Let's start. This is one of the parts that interested given the lack of technology, is through these signs It says how a person has to dress Long sleeves, long skirts for women. Understand that in this time Over 30degC My long sleeves are also It's a capital sin. So we try to be more modest, covering ourselves, tying up our hair, and trying to be more undercover. What they're asking for, really. Added to the dress code, You can see it here. The more elements you notice more extremely they take So, for respect, acceptance Let's wear a kippah. Related to what we just saw, it's very important to say that... I'm trying to ignore them, I'd prefer if we left, Like I tried to explain before, what we saw yesterday The thing is not many ultra-orthodox women Most women you'll see but not completely covered. Here, families are very large. Some of them with the goal of managing to populate the earth with as many Jews These are direct quotes from some Rabbis. So some families can't take care and it's very common to see Hebrew is the official language but here they speak Yiddish. It's the language the Jewish spoke And they still maintain it. The reason why they don't speak Hebrew is because they consider it that it can't be used Only to say their prayers. This is the first Judaic store This store has been open Soon we'll have Rosh Hashana God ordered us to play the &quot;shofar&quot; This is the central precept of this holiday, with which our prayers Right now we'll talk about We're in the center of Jerusalem, and here we have a Palestinian flag. In the previous report I talked about They supported the Palestinian cause and even gathered They want to finish but this is not the entirety Just a very small group, and they're the Neturai Carta, Seeing these images I can assure that 99.9% of the Jewish So unfortunately, the Jews also have a strong image They're loud, the thing is that Very small but very loud. The ideology behind it for them the state of Israel can only exist For this reason and many more, Also, for these Jews and I also think they say there can't be I'm happy to have seen again a more direct contact Of course, it hasn't been like in Bnei Brak. I lived it five years ago When we're with Gaston and Oxana people There are people who Tourists that came dressed improperly Then a local friend and we were able to enter businesses and the experience was But even he told us Walk fast in this street. There are streets in Mea Sharim But I'm very happy about what we lived, another ultra-orthodox city and there we'll be hosted by and we'll see their family home. How do you explain that in Mea Sharim we and you use it? Maybe outside people see us all but we're completely different. I have a smartphone, with a filter protecting me from because I think religion and social media There are Jews who decide because they say it affects the education I think we can use technology and still live in the values of Judaism, and with love of God. Each one with their way of being. Then we eat these vegetables And in your Torah it's written: Hey, Oh Israel, Adonai is our God, At what age do you start It depends on the community, In my specific case it depended on my parents. They didn't want me to marry too early in general it's at 18 years old. Around 18 years old we see a matchmaker. The matchmaker knows many families and takes care of proposing and whose marriage can be successful. Is that the only way to find a couple? - Could a man meet a woman in the streets? How many times do couples meet My parents told me to meet him I'm very determined, After three dates? Yes, and it wasn't because of pressure. Nobody pressured me. How long is it from commitment Depending on the community, Do you meet during that period? Depends on the community, Can you two meet then? Yes, in marriages, events... But not alone? It's better if not, because we can't touch until after the wedding. Once married we cover our hair Only the husband can see your natural hair. King David wrote this book. Get up, with energy! Jump up! Also the bird found a hoome And a nest of sparrows for her. If everything we've lived through we're going to the Western Wall because We're arriving right on the date, I had to drive their Tesla, Let's go. Remember the kugel, we tried it yesterday. Yesterday's was cold and sweet, It's something else. This is also a special ultra-orthodox dish. Yes, they cook it for 24 hours with the meat, it has beans, meat, potatoes. It's very good. We're in the most sacred place for Jews. We are in the Western Wall square. Today we have an amazing event. This place will be filled with people and for a very special reason. We'll pray special Forgiveness to ourselves, for our friends, our loved ones Why do we ask for forgiveness? they Jewish people will live which in Hebrew is called So in a few minutes, this place, will be filled with people and send prayers We're now in the beaches Some 30 minutes by car from Bnei Brak just one hour from Jerusalem but such a different reality we see here. Completely opposite. I'm still thinking about it now, to understand how we got so far inside in a world that is often times I thank you because it was We talked about many topics, the thing about the advantages For example, the Hasidics, are not obliged to take on Here, both for men and women is mandatory. Also, for years now, in that report I said They didn't work, they didn't pay taxes. They explained it better this time. There are men who only work part-time there are men who don't work at all, but usually, if the man doesn't work They take care of about 10 children The subsidies are not much, which for big families is very little. Women tend to work so much because it's a real pride that your husband, your man, is one of these completely dedicated to something In fact, for us, Luis on camera and myself, coming back to Mea Sharim We also were here five years ago sort of hidden, seeing what we could find, And coming back now, having lived this, for him and me has been happiness, pride and also satisfaction. Gaston and Oxana told us, They can't be covered in just one report. They have a channel dedicated to this because there are so many that it would never end. Once again, thanks to all these thanks a lot to Gaston and Oxana, who translated what they told us and translated to them and through their friends and contacts, have been the gates to this world. A window to a world This window is also your window. So now, finally, we're in the Jewish New Year, it's today, far from what happens today in Mea Sharim everyone locked in their homes I think our night in Tel Aviv This is goodbye, thank you all ENGLISH SUBTITLES: