Wow, I think Koreans will really like this. Hangover cure! Hello! We are at Stadium Bukit Jalil There is a big event here So we came here Let's go! Hey we're walking into the event now. Something smells good?! Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. Something smells good but I don't know what is that. Theres a lot of shops! Yeah a lot of shops Very very big event I think. Oh, we reached the food area. Lets look for those type of shops what is this? daging? What meat? soup daging I want to try this I want some soup. Who do we order from? This is beef soup? You can choose bee hoon, kuey teow etc You can put mee, mee hoon, kuey teow. How much? How much is this? huh? How much is this? Chicken is rm10 Beef is RM12 Daging is RM12 I want some soup though. Ahh yeahyeahh this is soup.. You want kuey teow, noodle or mee hoon? Kuey teow. Uh, spicy spicy Uh, spicy spicy Spicy, okay spicy? Okay, spicy Spicy is okay The more spicy the better No spicy is okay Spicy Shop Uncle: Boss Kuey teow or bee hoon? Kuey teow i like kuey teow Kuey teow fan? So this soup daging, usually it's nice because it's like similar concept to like you know like pho. Like they boil the soup for a long time, the bones and everything, so the stock is very jin. Just by looking at it i can tell its very thick But Malaysian style is that they have some other like herbs and stuff to reduce the gaminess of the meat. I'm not sure if you can Bring it to Korea. Bring it to Korea. Not here. She can understand malay a little She can understand malay a little ShopMakcik: She can speak Malay now. Just a little bit. Just a little bit. I'll try to teach her but But it takes some time to learn ShopMakcik: Okayla Feels like Korean people usually learn Indonesian Ahh yeah She tried to study Indonesian language before. Wahh smells so good Yay first shop ok I know its gonna be good Yeah, you already had a feeling It's very thick. Soup is thick. I got cold(flu) recently Ive been craving this type of like Clear soup Thats why I saw your face when you saw soup daging Like wahh looks so delicious Not MSG taste Yeayeayea Its herbs actually they use the herbs to counter the gaimey taste WAHH SO SOFT! Wong: me too me too Wong: I want to try some soup Wong: I want some soup This shop is nice right? This is delicious! This is good! This shop is really good! Wow, isn't this beef tendon? This shop is good! No gamey smell! Really really nice! Wong: It's like, if I were to Wong: make it simple to describe to Wong: people who never tasted it before, Wong: it's like pho with herbs inside. But the soup itself is like thicker than pho Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. Wong: Because of the bone, they boil Wong: it like that. Wow, doing some Korean thing in Malaysia. Wow, I think Koreans will really like this. Hangover cure! Hangover cure! This is hangover cure? Yeah! Wow! Is it good? Yeah! My mood got better! Cause like this days You know when you fell sick, you kinda lose your taste buds. You don't really have appetite, but wow! Wong: I like the soup actually! It's so good here. It's so good. Good choice So not bad right? Come to this event. This place is good. I told you. I told you. Because here got many local... Actually, this place... Kim was feeling quite sick today. And we were like decide maybe we want to shoot or don't want to shoot. But after that, when we came here and she had this soup, Then she understand why I said we have to come. Because this event, there's many local shops. It's so good that I don't want to share. with Wong *uncle noises* You don't want to share? No, no. Just joking. But this is good quality. The soup is good. This is it. This was the one i was looking for Yeah? This was the one you were looking for? haha This is your first time having this in Malaysia right? Last time, I didnt really like the herb taste, But now I want more herbs I think it's your masala tea addiction. These days I'm so into masala tea. Because she selesema(flu), so masala tea helps to clear her nose. So she likes it. Let's find more food. Let's enjoy this and go look for more food. I caught you! Whatre you doing huhh? Destroying the whole bowl ahh? Your whole face is inside the bowl already Look at this girl You really love this one Baam okay Lets look for the next thing The soup was delicious! Sedap? Where's the shop? Where's the shop? We dont have a shop Wong; oh no shop? Wong: Ohh youre just opening this store for the event? Yeahh Only for this event It was delicious! Best! Its so nice Why? Its so nice to see all the happy family walking around Ohh live LIVE music! Ohh live music! Shes good! I got something for free. Strawberry honey. Honey? Tastes yummy! you try some. Um. Uh, is it good? It tastes like honey. Uh. I don't taste strawberries. It's not strawberry? It's still there. Performance going on! What is this? Dangdut? Dangdut? Wong: NO! this is not dangdut(LOL) Wong: This is just local music Wong: This is just local traditional music Kim: our focus is on food Yeah we looking for food only What is this? There is Buldak here How do you make it? Ramen truck They all have ramen Oh, they cook it for you? Wong: Yup Wow That's interesting I don't think Koreans know that there is this in Malaysia I wanna support this shop because they support palestine I want to try Roti John Shopguy:Ah sorry roti john finished Wong: Awwwww Since kim tried sup daging I wanted to let her try sup ayam too! Do you have chicken? Yes, chicken is good. Chicken ah Whats this? Sup ayam Lets find somewhere to sit down and eat this How do I eat this? Okay. When there's a way, there's a There's a Malaysian way. Let's go. Is this the same thing that Is this the same thing that I had? Similar thing but just ayam. The one that you had was beef right? This chicken version. So just now you saw him chopping up the chicken. They put inside here. For my chicken chicken. This is so cheap! How much is this? 5 ringgit? 6 ringgit. 6 ringgit. How is it? Is it good? Just mango shake. Just mango shake? Let's try. Mm. Mm. Mm. Ewi taste this &lt;3 You like beef one more right? Beef one is stronger. This one is like kind of just light and simple. If you just eat it with rice it taste good too! Because I don't like that mee that mee and this one not matching that yellow mee? That me for mee goreng I like but it's like for regular one I don't really like The thing I like about this place is They have nice actually now it's a little bit drizzling But we can sit here under the tent and then the tent there's ceiling fan. Yeah, there's ceiling fan There's a straight up ceiling fan and fan Very well organized event actually I'm i'm i'm really like surprised And it's kind of massive. It's huge. It's huge. Now it's at night like saturday. But there's uh still quite a lot of people but actually this event the main it started in the morning actually The main the main one is in the morning Daytime it's gonna be pretty hot Yeah, that's why we chose to come at night But at night the problem is many shops closed every like the roti john just now we want to try but no more I like it here a lot Cause, we saw many happy families Walking around When you walk around here and you look at people's faces, what do you feel? Relaxed? Yeah, enjoying life Everybody here is just like that. Our behavior is just relax. Just chill, you know Yeah, just like walk around hang out with the family eat some good food, you know watching some performance The thing I like about this The thing I like about this type of event is that like, people just come with a very like, relaxed vibe and just walk around, you know, if they want to eat something, just buy and then just have a chill time with the family and stuff like that, which, you know what, honestly, like, when I was in Korea, I noticed that this thing doesn't happen actually. We actually like barely saw any children in Korea. I know, right? I don't know. Is it something to do with people not really giving birth? Maybe. Right. Or my theory is like all the kids there in Hagwon(tution It's just my opinion. Hagwon. Kids got no time to relax. Ahhhh. Did you have a good time overall? You look so tired though. We walked a lot. Yeah, we walked a lot, had a lot of stuff, had fun. See you guys in the next video! Bye bye!