So, 2 years ago I made a video trying to I used Google search data to do it - the Pokemon the most popular, and the ones who were almost Except that's not quite true. The the world is Pikachu. But while Pikachu in terms of how liked, how popular he But I'm jumping ahead a little. In order to I put together a website where people could course of about a week, over 1.6 in this video I'll go through the results and bottom of the list to discover which Pokemon Part I: The method Right, so before we get to the ranking, behind the madness. Earlier this year I ran Crossing villagers were the most popular. which I coded myself from the ground up. and glitched out a couple of times, so this time And so, I worked together with a member to rewrite the whole system from the which is the stuff you see when you visit which is the code that saves all of the that makes our workloads sound fairly equal, but website to ensure we didn't face the problems Now, as for which Pokemon I included in Pokemon with its own Pokedex number made and gender variations without their that means we have 1025 Pokemon in And so, after the site was up and running, I sent and more! And by a week or so later, over 1.6 incredible! Luke and I worked to organise all of and so now I have a nice ranked list of all 1025 with the least popular 20, and then we can move Part II: The bottom 20 20th from the bottom is Now, Gurdurr was introduced in Gen 5, which for brand new set of Pokemon populating the game's be found once you finish the game. And so, Game more than in any other generational leap. And be seeing a few in the top 20 - there's also some 19th from the bottom is Vullaby, who was the Diapered Pokemon, and indeed, appears to be this idea was executed badly, per se, I think Next up, 18th from the bottom is Squawkabilly, was only recently introduced to the and it really fails to make much of an impact. Pokemon, and Squawkabilly doesn't really do 17th on the list is Cascoon, a bug type Pokemon very interesting. It evolves from Wurple, who and it evolves into Dustox, who's a pretty cool in the middle. Heck, when its spikes retract In 16th place we have Crabominable. Crabominable is great, I think. has a much more appealing character ice and fighting type is interesting, it 15th from the bottom is Basculin, the Gen 5 Gen 5 Pokemon, and according to it was created because of a lack of fish in the that when you go fishing in a puddle, lake or the Basculin has no evolutions in Pokemon Arceus added Basculegion, who is In 14th place, we have Illumise, one of a pair counterpart to the male Volbeat, and to be frank, doesn't really resemble a firefly at all, 13th from the bottom is Enamorus, one of the this was a trio introduced in Pokemon Black and added to the group, that being Enamorus. Sadly, way as the other Forces of Nature. Perhaps not especially appealing design. I mean, Next up, number 12 is Maschiff, a dog Pokemon a Gen 9 Pokemon, Maschiff's not had a lot of this dog Pokemon just doesn't do a whole lot to In 11th place, we have Volbeat, who we talked about a moment ago. Volbeat its firefly theme, and it has the less And now we're down to the bottom 10 a dragon / ice type Pokemon introduced in think of dragon type Pokemon you picture cool looking designs. But while Frigibax does has a really ugly looking design. It's Number 9 is Flittle, another bird-like Pokemon Squawkabilly, which is based on a fully grown is fine, but... this design is just quite bizarre. form factor combined with a slightly strange 8th from the bottom is Watchog, the Lookout Pokemon, I discovered that Watchog was the least often. In other words, this is a pretty raw popularity too, this Gen 5, hi-vis jacket Up next, number 7 is Blipbug, the Larva Pokemon. line, this Pokemon's design is actually quite well, it just doesn't look very appealing. Pokemon means it often gets forgotten once In 6th place is Capsakid, a Gen 9 Pokemon based on is the name of the chemical found in chilli spicy pepper theme just doesn't come through and might be too new to really have 5th from the bottom is Smoochum, the kissing a weird themed Pokemon - I'm not sure what Pokemon that just looooves to kiss. Plus, who has famously been embroiled in controversy combined with its association with Jynx, The 4th least popular Pokemon is Munkidori. Now, Munkidori was introduced in The Teal which makes this Pokemon one of the most a combination of monkey-like features and poison who played the DLC. And for those who didn't 3rd on the list is Binacle, the two handed weird looking to me - it's apparently things look more like claws with faces of these "barnacles" sprouting from a rock - this Pokemon were going for, but the final 2nd from the bottom is Bruxish, a very and Moon. Bruxish is widely disliked for colourful fish face and sharp teeth come across based on the reef triggerfish, which is the version of this fish looks pretty cool, the Finally, the least popular Pokemon of Pokemon who was introduced in Gen 9. And I ranked at the very bottom of the list. Pokemon to say the least, so a lot of Gen 9 Pokemon the concept of a dung beetle Pokemon is design is somehow ugly, but also much So there we have the bottom let's go through the top 20 most popular Pokemon! Part III: The top 20 In 20th place we have Cyndaquil, the Gen but that fiery blaze gives it a bit of who is powerful and has absolutely and Cyndaquil returned as a starter In 19th we have Rowlet, another starter the more recently introduced starter Pokemon say, Bulbasaur, Charmander or Squirtle. propelled it forward to an Number 18 is Luxray. This Pokemon was introduced Rowlet and Cyndaquil with more of a dark edge. I between cute and cool that this sleek-looking In 17th place we have the mysterious trickster, true Pokemon mainstay. Again, he balances cute has enjoyed numerous appearances in the anime, In 16th place, we have a truly iconic Pokemon was all about Mewtwo's dark and tragic of Pokemon games Mewtwo was the strongest Mewtwo still stands out among every other Pokemon. Number 15 is Lapras, who's also been around allowing players to Surf their way across Kanto's and appeared frequently in the heyday of 14th is Kyogre, the Gen 3 legendary boxes for Pokemon Sapphire and Alpha Sapphire, super ancient legendaries are pretty darn In 13th is Mudkip, a beloved Gen 3 starter. Pokemon designs, but don't let its eventually evolves into Swampert, who can and in the mid 2000s, Mudkip was famously made 12th on the list is Leafeon, our first - but spoiling the rest of the list too much, all of with fans. Leafeon in particular offers In 11th place is Lugia, a legendary from Gen 2. which is how you KNOW they're important! It's the mascot of three different Pokemon games Gale of Darkness. Lugia is a majestic And that brings us to the top another Eeveelution! Espeon was introduced and brings a sleek, mysterious and super cool has a major role in Pokemon Colosseum, which just In 9th place we have Mew, the original mystery of 150 different Pokemon, but in truth an extra that being Mew. Initially, this Pokemon was Pokemon events, but this secrecy playground legends about how to obtain those original Pokemon games might not have 8th on the list is Chandelure, a unique looking Chandelure's popularity is undoubtedly its Pokemon based on a haunted chandelier sounds a so well. Chandure's not a starter, it's not In 7th, we have Lucario. Lucario is perhaps Super Smash Bros series. Lucario has also had and the film series, where Lucaria gets a of Mew. Just a super iconic and Next up, 6th is Rayquaza, another Gen 3 and Groudon, who was a lot lower down the in particular the most popular of the trio? design for a start. Serpents are just pretty Rayquaza is the mascot for Pokemon In 5th place we have Vaporeon, our third of the three original Eeveelutions, Gen 1. That gives this Pokemon a and combined with Vaporeon's simple yet 4th on the list is not an Eeveelution, but fan favourite Pokemon, particularly in Japan. sought to leverage that popularity to turn Eevee level of Pikachu. Case in point: Pokemon can evolve into eight different Pokemon, which In 3rd place we have Sylveon, the most in Generation 6. With Pokemon X and the first new type since Gen 2. And with it, Sylveon has a cute, pastel colour palette and In 2nd place, the runner up is... Mimikyu! Mimiyku has become extremely iconic within the scary-looking that it disguises itself What doesn't resonate about that? And with Mimiyku has shown that the best way to rival knockoff of Pikachu. And it works! You And finally, in 1st place, the Umbreon! When Umbreon was first introduced with only 6 Pokemon of this type in the game. and the only Dark Type Eeveelution. And that combines coolness with cuteness in a way that just Umbreon has had major appearances in Gary Oak and also Gladion. Plus, Umbreon is Colosseum. With its cool design and its frequent it's no surprise that Umbreon came out on 79.5% - that means for every 5 times Umbreon So there we have it - the most and I've only covered 40 Pokemon in you can go to thomasgamedocs.com/pokemon. Check But before you click off - if you worry not! I've got a survey out right Pokemon games! There's 21 games in total words giving your opinion about each game. put together a video covering every Pokemon want to take part in the upcoming video, A huge thanks once more to my Patron Luke website - without him, I'm not sure And a special thanks to my Patrons. This type possible because of your kind support. In