Legion is an exhibition unique in its scope. We follow the journey of one Roman citizen in his quest to become a legionary and belong to one of the world's Claudius Terentianus was a Roman soldier The surviving letters he sent home are as enlightening as they are rare. In Roman history, the important people and the world But in Legion, we illuminate the day to day experiences of the soldiers and those around them. The life of a Roman soldier wasn't easy, full of violence and hardship and death from battle or disease was likely But the rewards of that service So, what did it take to become part of the Roman army? I beg you, father. If it meets with your approval military sandals and a pair of felt socks. I was ordered to take the oath. So you want to join the Roman army, Not everyone could join the Roman army. The first perhaps simplest requirement was height. and it was five foot ten in Roman feet. This is slightly different to what it is today, but it would have been about 172cm. You had to be under the age of 35. However, you could be as young as, say, 13 As well as these two requirements, Now, this would be a letter from someone recommending you to a position in the Roman army. This is one of the Vindolanda tablets, It's a letter written The commander at Vindolanda, and he's recommending a soldier for a position at Carlisle. The Roman army needed to know that their recruits and future soldiers were up to the task, were really great way of ensuring Now, Terentianus, as a Roman citizen expected to join the elite legions, But he fell short He couldn't get a good enough one. Instead, that got him into the auxiliary marines. Not exactly what he wanted. Hopeful Roman soldiers would start as recruits wouldn't become immediate soldiers. They had to go through quite grueling training. Objects like these would have been used a wooden target and this wooden sword you can see, also the damage This skull comes from the fort at Vindolanda If you look closely, This matches the bolts used in Roman bolts This coin shows us the moment of a Roman soldier as it was called. We don't know much about the Roman military oath. This is one of the very few depictions It shows two soldiers with one recruit kneeling in the middle. The recruit has a piglet, This piglet may have been sacrificed At this point, Now, even if you're a citizen protected in this moment, you're swearing away those rights which means that were you to desert or somehow fail in your obligations, they would have the right to punish you This is a really significant moment and Terentianus writes about it, and when he does, Both Kalabel and Deipistus have enlisted No one has reckoned up the chances of their lives. I went by boat, and with their help, I enlisted in the fleet. Lest I seem to you to wander like a fugitive, lured on by bitter hope. So now you're in the Army. But where do you fit in? If you were a Roman citizen, you'd normally want to join the Roman legions. Better pay, better conditions. However, if you were a non Roman citizen, you still had the option of joining One of these auxiliary units and this is the one that Terentianus joined. While he was marine Terentianus hated it. At one point he rails, "They paid no more attention to me The Roman form of toilet paper. He has his equipment nicked by his own officers. he then has his bedding stolen. A miserable time Claudius Terentianus could read and write. This is a rare skill in antiquity. With the ability to read and write, you could read and write orders and this was the key to getting promoted roles in the Roman army. A good promoted rule This was a man on double This tombstone shows Imaginifer, He holds the imago, In his other hand, you can see he has a scroll. He's telling us he can read and write an important function of promoted men. Standard bearers held the standards of either or the particular century to which they belonged. You had to lead from the front, You had to be able to read and write, of course, as all promoted men did, but you also had to be numerate kept the pay and the accounts for their men. The top position for a commoner would be the role of centurion, commander of a century. We have one example of a centurion who managed to become a centurion by vote of the legion, He must have been able to show his bravery It was a position of high responsibility Centurions were paid to start with 15 times the wages of an ordinary soldier. He was very valued in the Roman army. One role that would tempt even legionaries was the role of cavalry. The cavalry was one of the most glamorous roles and the chance to show off a very specialist form of cavalry parade. It included standards like this unique survival, the Draco of Koblenz, this draco comes from the fortress of Niederbieber on the Rhineland frontier. It dates to the late second century it's the only one that's ever been found. The draco would be mounted on a pole the head's hollow, so it as the rider rode along. that billowed out like a fearsome tail. Originally gilded, this is a unique example The draco standard, interestingly, was adopted from Rome's enemies, the Sarmatians, it's very much emblematic of the Roman practice the ideas, the symbols of the enemy I ask and beg you, father, to send to me a battle sword, a pickaxe, a grappling iron, two of the best spears attainable, a cloak of beaverskin and a girdled tunic, together with my trousers, so that I may have them. I wore out my tunic before I entered the service, and my trousers were laid away new. Okay so you found your place in the army, how do you get your equipment? There were three ways to get your equipment. The easiest way that it from home, Otherwise, soldiers would have to purchase but at the end of service, so there was also a very strong and we have helmets that have not just one or two owners names inscribed on them, but three, even four, suggesting a very lengthy period of service. This example shows, towards the end of the second century. He has a cuirass, a segmental cuirass. He also has protection extended to the sword arm. A manica or armored sleeve. It looks very gladiatorial. In fact, The helmet is still gleaming from the Rhine, and it's got extra strips and a very wide neck guard. Typical equipment for a legionary is this pilum or armor piercing javelin, it would be thrown at the enemy, hopefully piercing the shield and reaching the defender behind it. He's shown with, a very late This is a particular type and it's virtually the last era The other piece of equipment vital for heavy infantry legionaries was the scutum or long shield. This one in particular is the only surviving example. It comes from the eastern city of Dura-Europos on the Euphrates frontier, and it's been preserved by the dry environments of the Syrian desert. The main feature you can see is the wonderful painted decoration. This is painted on leather, on top of plywood with a bronze binding. Images include Victories, a Roman eagle and probably a regimental symbol of a lion. In the corners are four swastikas. In antiquity, Conservators preserved it, trying to maintain So it is slightly more curled Also, it must have been a spare part. It lacks the nail holes needed for the boss, the metal plate that would protected the hand that gripped the shield in the middle. The boss next to it was found in the Tyne it's from the second century AD, and it belongs to a soldier called Juvitatus. The boss protects the hand holding the shield, but it could be used We're extremely fortunate in this exhibition to have and the earliest example of a Roman legionary's body armor or cuirass. This example turned up in excavation on the battlefield in 2014. After four years of conservation, it's been returned It's so well preserved you can see that Chemical analysis of the soil inside the cuirass suggests somebody died inside and perhaps, these buckles have been opened This object reminds us of the hazards of being a Roman soldier. The risk of violence combined with disease and illness made life as Roman soldier In A.D. 115, Terentianus himself The Jewish diaspora revolt, and he talks about putting down the anarchy and the uproar of the city. He himself was wounded. He sent me word about a woman. With my consent, he was buying one for me. I would have taken a woman into my house, but I did not permit myself, nor do I permit myself to take anyone If you remain steadfast in refusal I shall do without my woman. If not, the woman whom you approve, is also the one whom I also want. Now as a Roman soldier, if you've survived battle Not every soldier would have faced But almost all soldiers life of living in a Roman fort. Roman forts were like miniature towns built for Roman soldiers to live in. They were permanent structures built in areas where the Romans felt Military communities The soldiers themselves had families, Roman soldiers weren't officially allowed to marry unless they were officers But we know that they did. They had women who they considered their wives and wrote to their families, and they had children Now Terentianus writes home This would be a concubine, and so he needs permission One of the most famous women This is her tombstone erected by her husband, a man named Barates, who was a Roman soldier. Now, Regina's she was his wife. She was actually initially his concubine, Eventually he freed her and married her. We don't know the context for that, how much choice but it gives us an interesting insight It's an incredibly elaborate tombstone, and Regina is shown as a very elegant, very Roman woman. aspects of this tombstone Inside a square, as you'd expect, is an inscription written in Latin. But beneath it, is the added The original language of her husband, Barates. A final lament for his wife that says Regina, the freed Soldiers were recruited from many different areas of the Roman Empire, So many of them would have been bilingual, probably their children Terentianus himself writes in a common language spoken in Egypt. Forts were also places where soldiers spent a lot of their free time, This extraordinary object is a bronze dice tower. Now, this was used for rolling dice. You drop the dice at the top of the tower and there are some levels inside the tower This was fun for when you're just rolling dice, but it's actually a very useful device as well because it's an anti cheating device now we know that the Romans loved to play games but we also know that quite We found loaded dice that This device makes sure that doesn't happen. On the front of the dice tower, It says PICTOS VICTOS HOSTIS DELETA LUDITE SECURITA which means: "The Picts have been defeated. All hostiles are vanquished. Now use me in safety." One of the most famous Vindolanda tablets depicts a very ordinary moment in people's lives, This is a birthday party invitation, and in fact, probably the oldest birthday party It's an invitation from a to her friend Lepidina. To celebrate her birthday Though most of the invitation would at the end, there's a final message This makes it the oldest known female handwriting in Britain. On the invite, Claudia Severa writes: Farewell, sister, my dearest soul, as I hope to prosper and hail." Receive with my recommendation the discharged soldier Terentianus who brings you this letter. Let him know what sort of villagers we have, lest he get into trouble, since he is a man of means If you completed your 25 years of service, what awaited you as a reward at the end? You don't know exactly how many soldiers survived to the end of their service, Once you completed your 25 years of service, a Roman military bronze diploma. This was awarded to auxiliary soldiers, after 25 years of service This bronze diploma who actually did 26 years of service. He's getting his citizenship on the 8th of September of the year AD 79, extends to his wife Tapaea and his son, Carpinius. Now, this reward may not look like much, but Roman citizenship was arguably priceless. It wasn't just for Marcus Papirius, but for his children and his children's children, so it ensured the future of his family, a future where they would get the same protections as other Roman citizens. If you were a citizen, like Terentianus, you could expect a lump sum of ten years salary. What we might think of nowadays perhaps buy land, retire with your family and have a peaceful life. You've done your time. You've served the army. This is your reward. This coin hoard, known as the Didcot hoard, is a hoard of 126 gold coins, which amounts to just over what a soldier might expect to get the ten years of salary. Seeing these coins brought together and why it might be worthwhile for a soldier to risk his life for 25 years. Now for those of you who are eager I'm happy We know this not from his own words given that he doesn't get a good enough he does get a letter of recommendation and it describes him as a man of means. Thank you for joining us on this tour of the Legion exhibition. These objects offer a small insight into the lives and experiences of serving in one of history's most notorious military institutions. We hope this has given you a better understanding in the Roman army. if you want to learn more,