Hello, and welcome to Aviation Deep Dive. The world of aviation in the 1940s and 1950s Constant breakthroughs in technology, a better engines year by year meant that aircraft were armed, and... bigger. In the early 1930s the Tupolev ANT-20 was over 30 metres in length and 60 meters in By 1940 the number of giant aircraft being Douglas XB-19, Me 232, and Martin Mars all It was the golden age of aviation, and development of the Second World War. Today, however, our story takes us to France, construction. The Latecoere 631 was in every sense of the its design we must head back to the mid-1930s. The transatlantic flight route was booming, ferrying passengers in unparalleled luxury It was an extremely profitable enterprise, Civil Aviation in France issued a specification a range of 6,000 kilometres. A quick message - if you want to skip to the Unfortunately my previous video has been demonetised Of course this should have come under fair my appeal doesn't go through Youtube will video. Each of my videos do take many hours of research a copyright claim I won't be making any If you can, I'd really appreciate support support the channel, and I won't need to Also, all my content is available early on stuff. If you can't, it's ok, I really appreciate Anyway, back to the video! The specifications were broad, but with a began work on a design, these being Potez, With pen set to paper, the three all produced All were hexameteur, or six-engined designs, the Latecoere was the largest. The Potez-CAMS 161 was the first competitor the Sud-Est SE.200 Amphitrite. Latecoere proposed their design in 1936, Intended to be powered by six Hispano-Suiza each, the company laid out the plan for an and and 35.9 metres in length. Work began on a small scale model to conduct on the specification was taking longer than advancements in aviation technology since the specification. Latecoere was instructed to stop working instead requested that they modify the design They now wanted an aircraft with double the of 300 km/h and capable of carrying 5,000kg The range was not updated, and the Late 630 km above the requirements anyway, so Latecoere and increasing the speed. The old inline engines were ditched, to be - increasing the power output by 60%. Interestingly the Air Ministry was apparently companies competing for the tender did not on their older designs. Nevertheless, in October 1937 Latecoere of the aircraft, imaginatively dubbed the testing was created. Testing revealed no real issues, and so the put through on the 1st July 1938, Latecoere in the South of France. Construction would not be speedy however, an aircraft to truly enormous proportions. 43 metres in length, 57 in span, and a whopping out of 32,000 kg of aluminium, and would seat At this point however, solid facts become unclear for the Potez 161. A contemporary report from the Flight magazine flight on the 7th December 1939, whilst another Regardless, the 161 was the first competitor Both the Latecoere 631 and the SE.200 were ready flying tests when France fell to the In fact, it would be almost two full years Construction of four SE.200s had been underway France, but progress was painfully slow, and seized by the Germans and taken for testing. The 631, meanwhile, had began construction invasion it had completely stopped, and Latecoeres cranking out war machines. Following the Franco-German armistice, Latecoere project, though after the ban was lifted in again, the aircraft being ready in mid-1942, The result of their efforts, though, was certainly Latecoere had been able to secure six Wright each, gave a modest power increase over the Standing at 10 metres tall, 43 metres in length, fact the longest aircraft in the world - was incredibly striking design. With the large angle of dihedral on the elevators, characteristic enormous nose - the cockpit 9 metres, which remains one of the 631s most Shipped to Southern France in parts, the aircraft underwent its first flight on the 4th November It's hull lifting smoothly from the water, and docile, and the aircraft logged around Construction of the second aircraft was also Unfortunately, the aircraft would be short-lived eye of German officials, and under the instruction Egel, the 631 was confiscated - painted in - on the German-Swiss border. There it would stay for the next few years. Unfortunately I can't find any information to see what they thought, but the 631 was there - the SE.200 Amphitrite, competitor would also end up being taken by the Luftwaffe. The second prototype, now in fairly advanced situation. The workers at the factory apparently decided be stolen by the Germans anyway, so they decided However, destroying something as big as a so they instead opted to disassemble all the This apparently was a success, although how of the 631 remains a mystery. Regardless, for the next year and a half no The captured 631 remained in German hands stayed hidden from occupying eyes. In August 1944, the factory was liberated parts could finally be brought out from their aircraft begin final assembly. The parts were transported to Lake Biscarosse, the aircraft was finally completed. However, the so-called second' prototype time it was complete, as the first one - appropriated where it was moored in April 1944, by two In the attack the SE.200 Amphitrite would would ultimately destroy the second amphitrite Latecoere, however, was not so unlucky, testing - which began on the 6th March 1945, flight. Having waited a good many years by this point, whilst the second ironed out any flight issues. Air France was immediately interested, and received four of the giants, to be used on Indies. The aircraft could finally stretch its wings, Cruising at speeds of 300 km/h (or 186 mph), the Atlantic in about 15 hours, then from a half. With its colossal 6,000 km )or 3,750 mile) its passenger route - and it would carry its Sporting a Lounge and Bar in the nose, the its length, where passengers could order food, The aircraft would also have two decks, the for the passengers. Over the next few years more aircraft would with three French airliners operating the Ultimately eleven would be completed (including was about to enter an era of its service life and seal its fate. In October 1945, just three months after Air type, one 631, on a route from Brazil to Uruguay, from the No.3 engine ripped free from its it also out of service. The enormous 5 metre (or 16 foot) propellor the aircraft, killing two passengers who were struck. Though the 631 was able to succesfully land, this was unfortunately foreshadowing a string throughout its service life. Two and a half years later, on the 21st February thus far. On a ferry flight to deliver the aircraft began to encounter issues over the channel. To make matters worse, the weather - which for the worst, as a snowstorm began to rapidly Temperatures plummeted in the air as the crew aircraft. The crew were stunned, the aircraft was losing though they battled bravely to keep control too much. A combination of the extreme weather, and to lose its battle to the elements. All nineteen people on board were killed in revealed that the most probable cause was jamming them, and eventually rendering them The 631 lacked any de-icing system, and as utter disaster, faith in the design began Just six months later, mid-way through an was lost - this time resulting in the death The cause of this particular crash was never of the destroyed aircraft were discovered The official report concluded: "The members the accident to a serious and sudden event This was an absolute disaster, the aircraft of less than 3 years, and Air France deemed and was no longer safe to operate. Consequently they struck it from service, Over the next few years the aircraft would 631 was lost after its aileron couplings were All 12 on board died. In 1955 the last operational 631 had its entire after flying into a tropical storm off the Four of the eleven aircraft had been destroyed still killing two people. Overall, in just 10 years of service, and the aircraft had resulted in the deaths of The source of the crashes too, had not been issues, vibration issues, a lack of de-icing and quite possibly more - from the aircraft Despite winning the contract it had been designed there was no denying that the Latecoere It had never even been particularly reliable Maintenance had always also been an issue to keep going - in fact, two of the high-profile for maintenance. This perhaps tells you everything you need Ultimately, the few remaining aircraft were remained. The Latecoere 631 was without a doubt a many aviation fans, considered to be one of Regardless, its protracted development only life would ultimately turn out to be - and designers. It did certainly have issues, and the decision - but many wish that at least one could have A flying boat representing the golden age as being an enormous, beautiful, death-trap. A huge thanks to my Patrons, on screen now, much for watching this video of Aviation Deep Consider liking and subscribing for more weekly us on Patreon - see you in the skies.