- These are scenes from a 1914 It perfectly illustrates the of Neanderthals in particular: hunched over, kind of simple-minded, and of course battling dinosaurs. For a long time, Neanderthals In the 19th century, they were almost called Homo Stupidus. In the 110 years since this our view of Neanderthals They created sophisticated tools, they interbred with homo sapiens, they were our ancestor; and dare I say, had rituals, which is just the most One of the best places to see evidence of Neanderthal symbolic thinking is Cueva des-Cubierta in Spain, where archeologists unearthed 35 skulls, all of horned animals, Let's take a look at this site, what was found and the into the minds of these ancient humans. (gentle music) Just want to take a moment here to thank the sponsor of the number one family history service. They have over 90 million users. They have access to 19 billion records. No one makes tracing your family history, tracing your origins, more accessible and But most importantly, it's fun. It's really, really, really, really fun. Let me show you what I've been doing. I've been working on my but you can see there's many I didn't know so that's great. But as you can see, over some of these names there, there's little brown dots; That's My Heritage's system They found people and information What they found here is a record match from the 1911 census connected to my great-grandmother Mabel, and it shows where they lived and the whole family at that time. What I really love, what down on the bottom right there, my great grandfather's signature. I love that in the same Seeing these little physical it brings it alive. It literally brings it alive to me. That's why I love archeology. And I really love that so you can kind of snoop It's the first thing I always do. I've been checking out these Victorian mansions If all of this interests you, go to the link in the description. You'll get a 14 day free trial. It's the best, it's the best. Thanks to My Heritage. Let's see what these Neanderthals are doing with these skulls. I wasn't really planning but I mentioned this site What's one of my favorite Neanderthal archeological sites, you ask? Well, I'm glad you asked. And the mere suggestion that Neanderthals were just, it caused chaos in the comments. &quot;They couldn't just be eating them lol. Not everything has to be a ritual.&quot; &quot;Why wouldn't they be eating them? They ate other parts. I grew up eating brains.&quot; Put extra accent on that one. &quot;I grew up eating brains.&quot; &quot;When in doubt, ritual.&quot; &quot;Spoken like a true archeologist.&quot; Laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh. I didn't realize this Now, I know it's a bit of a meme. Archeologists and our love Maybe this is the issue. When I say something like a ritual, maybe people are imagining a Neanderthal pope presiding with a very clear and strict Something very elaborate like that. That's not what I mean I am imagining something let's say Thanksgiving dinner. Each Thanksgiving whenever Americans of all different backgrounds gather with their families. They're probably going to eat a turkey. They might have kind of a They might all sit around and watch a game of American football. That's a ritual. That's a ritual. There's no way that's not a ritual. You're gathering together at a particular time to eat specific foods and do specific things, because all of that has meaning. The day has meaning, It's symbolic. It might not be super elaborate, there's no Thanksgiving pope. Well, maybe there is. I dunno. The president pardoning a turkey, doesn't he do that? Anyway, point is these in a specific day, including foods, because they have symbolic meaning. That's the level of ritual I'm gonna argue for at Cueva des-Cubierta, if I'm saying that correctly. Let's take a look at this site 'cause it's super interesting. Cueva des-Cubierta sits on the edge of the Panilla Reservoir It's about an hour's right in the heart of Spain. It's a beautiful place, beautiful region. I actually met my wife in Madrid, little bit of Stefan lore for you. Shout out to Spain, I love the people. Cueva des-Cubierta and you can see why from these photos. It doesn't look like these archeologists are excavating in a cave at all, but that's just because has eroded away since Layer three of the cave is This layer dates to or the first half of Marine isotope stages are just a way of dividing sort of deep time between alternating warm and cold periods. We are able to tell if the Earth was in a warmer or a colder period based on oxygen levels in deep sea cores. I think this oxygen is little mollusk shells, stuff like that. It's a very interesting In calendar years, though, this dates to maybe 74 to maybe, I don't know, 53,000 years ago. This was a cooler time period and this cooler period in might have been caused by the Toba super eruption. Probably was. Obviously, now central Spain is pretty scorchio place to be, but at the time the it was probably more steppe-like; a cold, dry, pretty open landscape. No human remains have but despite that, it's Neanderthals were responsible We don't have evidence of homo sapiens in Europe between 74 and 53,000 years ago, the earliest permanent occupation of the continent by homo sapiens might have began around 47,000 years ago, based on finds in Eastern Europe. Remains of a Neanderthal child were also recovered from from right above layer three. You can tell it's a neanderthal child 'cause if you look here, Doesn't have a big chin, You can kind of see it here. Yeah, this is another Neanderthal Look at how that just sweeps away there. Not big chin people, the Neanderthals. Layer three also contains lots of typical Neanderthal so whatever was going on in layer three is very, very likely that Neanderthals were responsible for it and it's really funky. Some funky stuff was going down. (rapid footfalls) The animal remains from layer three are what makes this site so special. All in all, 35 crania were recovered in an area just 27 meters squared. Not a massive area. These were mostly crania and almost no teeth were found, which is kind of odd considering how many skulls are there. You can't help but wonder what happened to the rest of these animals. Why, basically, just the skulls? Strange, it's strange. It's strange. What's really interesting though is that all of these skulls belonged to horned animals. 28 of the skulls belonged stuff like that. You know, bovines. Five of the skulls were deer, all with their antlers still attached, and the last two were rhinos, which also have big horns. Okay? Very big horns. I think you would have to admit this is starting to get a little bit odd. 35 animals of different species, so this almost certainly is not one event, one moment of hunting. They're being processed somewhere else, and then just the skulls are being brought to this one location. That's starting to look Lots of people commented that this is just for food, this is just nutrition, they're eating brains; and you're absolutely right. I've eaten brains, too. I've eaten pig brains, so I'm not judging them. They are definitely eating There's a lot of hammer stones that have been found nearby, sometimes right alongside the skulls. They're definitely bashing but you could do that when you were processing the rest of the animal, right? It doesn't have to be done at this one special location. Let's think again of that I could go outside now and it basically would have no symbolic meaning to me whatsoever. I'm just doing it because I'm hungry. But a turkey eaten at Thanksgiving has an extra layer of symbolism to it. You're eating that specific food at that specific time And again, with these skulls, why not just eat them where the rest of the Why move them to this cave? It's getting odd. Come on, it's starting to get a little bit symbolic, guys. For those of you that are there's some even more evidence that things were getting a little bit funky in the noggin for these Neanderthals. (fire crackles) There's quite a lot of evidence You can see here on the screen, a blackened, hardened spot of earth where a little neanderthal fire was. There's just a lot of Some of these skulls have been placed directly on top of where these fires were and where these burnt remains are. It's like they had a fire, Is that symbolic? Maybe. Maybe. I know the skeptical ones will say, ah, shut up, Stefan. They're just cooking their brains. But what about this? What about this? One of the aurochs skulls was placed directly over a flat rock, which isn't natural to the cave. The cave is a lot of limestone, I think. This rock was gneiss. I think it's a metamorphic rock, often very nice patterns on it. Let's think about this chain of events. They hunted the animal, did brought the skull over to the cave with none of the other body parts, placed it on this gneiss flat rock, probably with a good, nice pattern, which they also had to bring to the cave. Neither the rock nor the aurochs and they both ended up Is this what you would do? Just for subsistence, just for calories, with no meaning behind it whatsoever? That's what you would do with your lunch? Doesn't seem likely to me, This is some sort of trophy room. It's almost like this is a skull cult for Neanderthals. I know that's quite a big statement, but it's a serious possibility. It's a very serious possibility. The authors of the paper briefly mentioned another couple of odd neanderthal sites to bolster their case that there's some extra At the Grotte du Prince in France, another accumulation of skulls was found, this time with more goats, Problem with this site, though, is that I think it was excavated in the early 1900's; I think around 1905. The paper on it was published in 1906, so certainly before then. When a site was excavated so long ago, you kind of have to take the conclusions with a little bit of a pinch of salt. They didn't have the and they didn't even have to excavate these places Nevertheless, it's an odd accumulation of skulls at a Neanderthal site. We can say that, at least. Another interesting site is Whenever I've read about Teshik-Tash, the main thing I took away from it was that it was very far east. Until Neanderthals at It was the furthest East Neanderthal site and it sort of shattered that as mainly confined to Western Europe, but, there's really a lot going on there. Teshik-Tash is a good contender It was the resting place who was probably between the ages of 8 and 11 when they died. Surrounding the child were the bony core their horn. The bony core of their horn, (laughs) that is a funny thing to say. You can see some of them here in the reconstruction of this site, the horns just scattered Now again, this site so a lot of the same caveats apply. They didn't have amazing technology and didn't maybe have the best methodology to excavate these sites, but it is odd to potentially be buried next to five sets of horns. The museum in Uzbekistan with the horns criss-crossing the body. Are they right? I'm not sure. I'm not sure, but what I didn't realize before I started researching this video was that Teshik-Tash in the Uzbek language. Look at this, look at this thing. This is Teshik-Tash. This is the rock formation Did it look like this when I have absolutely no idea, but it kind of looks like horns to me. Isn't that interesting that a burial would be surrounded by horns and then outside of that burial, are these horned shaped rocks? Is that relevant in any way? I don't know. I don't know. Probably not. Let's say probably not, it's just my simple ape and recognizing patterns that aren't there in reality, maybe. For anyone still unsure, still undecided about the symbolism going on in these brains, I want to go back to Just a fantastic site, which in my opinion is just of symbolic thinking on La Pasiega Cave is right There weren't any skulls or anything like that found here, but something much more creative, perhaps. - [Guide] What we find here is evidence of Neanderthal painting. Not only just smearing but actually painting that represents something. - These cave paintings This rectangular panel, the dots, this strange looking thing, some sort of helicopter These incredible cave paintings were dated to basically the same time as Cueva Des-Cubierta. - And the very question is, how old and when did this happen? And normally, archeologists called radiocarbon dating, which dates the time that charcoal has been used to make paintings, but we can't do this with 'cause they're made out So instead, we are focusing that have formed on top of the paintings. And they're made of calcium carbonate, and they're formed by the water percolating through the rocks, and they precipitate out calcite. If this calcite was precipitated the painting must have been there for it to precipitate on top, which means the painting must be older than the age of the calcite. - The artwork is at So again, right in that ballpark where Neanderthals were putting skulls in that room in Madrid. Back to the time when of homo sapiens in Europe, someone, presumably a Neanderthal, had come into this cave and painted these things on the wall. Clear evidence of symbolic thought on the part of the Neanderthals. What's just absolutely mind blowing to me, truly mind blowing, is that inside these rectangular panels, you can see little drawings of animals. Now, we don't have any evidence of Neanderthals drawing That's something you tend to There's a lot of famous cave art from the paleolithic depicting animals. One hypothesis is, is that Neanderthals drew this rectangle and the bird pirate and these dots for whatever reason, 64,000 years ago. 20,000 years later, when homo they went into the cave, and added a little doodle of an animal. We can't say for sure that that's how this scene was constructed, but that's very possible and that thought is that two people can separated by 20,000 years. That's crazy. Regardless of who drew those these cave paintings clearly are evidence of symbolic thought on and they date to the same time period as the skulls being assembled There's something going They're not just bumbling around, mindlessly consuming calories. These places, these animals, I think they meant something What was going through the minds of these Neanderthals when they placed all these on gneiss rocks on top of fires? We'll never truly know what goes on in someone else's brain, just like I don't know what's going on in your brain. Could it have been just simple And for whatever reason, 35 times, they just happened to end up Maybe. Maybe. But let's imagine for the moment the Neanderthals in that area did have certain beliefs rituals connected to horned animals, that they were gathering at a certain time and a certain place to or commemorate a hunt; What evidence would that leave behind in the archeological record? I think it would leave behind the kind of things we see Skulls with no other remains around, placed on tops of fires, A seemingly repeated pattern time after time this process is happening. This is exactly the kind of evidence a Neanderthal ritual would leave behind. And as we uncover more evidence about Neanderthals and and how they lived, and as we go forward and find more and more interesting I think the chances of this being some sort of ritual activity only grows. Think how much our opinion since that film in 1914, and now imagine what we'll know It's pretty incredible. That's why I like calling this series &quot;Unknown at the Moment,&quot; because we're going to get an idea of what was going on in these brains. Huge thanks to My Heritage Check out the link below, see what your family was up to way back in time; as far back as 1740. And yeah, Neanderthal skull cults, to me it's a no brainer. Sorry, I recorded the and I couldn't let it exist I know, terrible, terrible. Thanks for watching!