Hello, and welcome to Aviation Deep Dive. It's the 1930s, and across the world advancements power are allowing aircraft to become bigger Seaplanes too, are entering their golden age, passengers all around the world in luxury The aircraft that we're looking at today, the largest floatplane of all time! Heralding from Italy, sporting 4 radial engines - today we'll be taking a look at the history Italy had initially been late to the civil hand at serious native design or production Having said that, once they did, their aviation technologically, and producing some really In 1933 and 1934 the Macchi M.C.72 set the record still makes it the fastest piston engine km/h! The CANT Z.506, produced just three years the best military seaplane ever produced - Italy the sphere of hydroplanes. As such, in mid-1937 the civil aviation company to the now centralised Italian aviation industry. They wanted a long-range seaplane that would and cargo on transatlantic routes to Latin CANT, otherwise known as the Trieste Shipbuilding accepted the specification and began design Between September 29th and October 1st 1937, out a design for the largest floatplane in Four-engined, fast, and with a very promising By December 1939, the construction of the with the second just behind. But the program had hit a roadblock, to do to power the aircraft. The Alfa Romeo 135 was a twin-row 18 cylinder 1,600 horsepower at full power - and though for the project in 1935, four years later enough for operational use - it routinely issues. Despite its technical problems however, the boasting such a high power output, that the on Focke-Wulf Fw 200 Condors, but that's Regardless, they were certainly not in a good the designers had to look elsewhere for a Looking across the Atlantic, they were apparently which matched the power output of the Alfa CANT lodged a request with the authorities but due to deteriorating relations they were As such, the flight tests were delayed for company was able to secure some Piaggio P.XII These had the advantage of being home-grown, Their power output was good, at 1,500 horsepower, were generally considered a worse alternative. Regardless, it was the only engine suitably it was fitted to the first prototype, finally Standing at 11 metres tall, 28.5 metres in was by far the largest floatplane ever constructed pontoons was almost 20 metres long - about Sporting a very beautiful, streamlined look, The wings, in fact, would be so tall that enough for a man to walk through, who could flight. The majority of the fuel would be kept in tank, for a total fuel capacity of 16,340 A crew of Now ready for flight tests, the Z.511 was And in October 1940, the month the Italians Z.511 took to the skies, piloted by Mario The aircrafts designer, Zappata, was also be an easy one! Almost immediately having taken off, the Z.511 gust of wind, and it was found that the ailerons In a very risky situation, the officials on floatplane flew off, at the mercy of the winds the rudder. Stoppani, the pilot, was very skilfully able using the differential thrust of the engines it back to the lake for a safe landing. It transpired that the rods which connected become wet and thus expanded, meaning there Zappata, presumably rather shaken by this the control system in the wings, replacing whole ordeal took about 3 months to complete. Following this, the Z.511 continued undergoing conditions - on one flight the aircraft made waves and 40 mph winds - the engineer was be destroyed from the stress. But the aircraft took the pounding from the - not to mention that at the time the aircraft kg or 75,000 lbs. This proved the structural integrity of the ruggedly built, for context most floatplanes than 12 inches, or 30 centimetres - this was The speed of the aircraft also ended up being 6,000 horsepower to achieve a maximum speed Overall, testing was certainly considered mid-1942, and interest was rapidly dwindling designs that could function in a military The second prototype had been disassembled projects, and in order to appease Italian orders for the aircraft, a military conversion It was considered that due to it's enormous the Maritime patrol role - it could be fitted wings, as well as internal bomb bay and leave armament. And defensive armament was indeed suggested! In the form of no less than 10 single mount two dorsal turrets, and belly positions - furthermore nose - making this an extraordinarily well-defended of the war! Aside from guns, however, the aircraft would - to be put to use against any enemy ships An interesting feature of the Z.511, is that 533 mm torpedoes, which is actually more than It's interesting to note that although its to nothing, it could feasibly have replaced amount of similarities, at least superficially. Both converted from airliners into maritime better in every aspect, its payload, speed, better, provided it got some extra tanks. The Z.511 was also incredibly strong, as we've plagued by structural issues that stemmed lot of heavy equipment, its back would often Anyway - Desperate to find a use for the Z.511, transport to fly groups of Italian saboteurs a transatlantic crossing to Latin America. Even using it on solo strike missions to target vessels in the Black Sea were considered, submarine that would be flown in and dropped finished prototype stayed moored at its lake stayed mostly disassembled in its facility. The Z.511 took its last flight in September British fighters on the lake, which caused Transferred to Vigna de Valle for repairs, sweeping across Southern Italy, and the workers fall into either Allied or German hands - sabotaging The other Z.511, still half-built, was seized bringing a sudden end to the only two Z.511s This aircraft has remained shrouded in mystery, should be. For this video, I was only able to find a books are few and far between, any detail most of it from secondhand accounts from historians Nevertheless, the Z.511 is certainly deserving incredible aircraft. Brainchild of the legendary aeronautical engineer be rugged, reliable, fairly fast and high never really catch on due to the fact that passenger route being cut off, after the outbreak Unfortunately fate wasn't kind to the legacy destroyed, and we're only left with images aircraft by. A huge thanks to my Patrons, on screen now, much for watching this video of Aviation Deep Consider liking and subscribing for more weekly us on Patreon - see you in the skies.