(engine revving) - They say that weight is They haven't driven a Raptor R. (engine revving) That thing will do a And if you think that thing is brash, you haven't heard a Cadillac Escalade V. (engine revving) This is the loudest car we've ever heard. I haven't heard anything this stabbing in suburban Detroit. I don't care what they say, there is no way that thing is legal. Shut it off. God. Sorry. If all of this Americana well, the Brits have an answer. Hello sir. - Good day. - Is this on? - I do believe so, sir. - But I can't hear it, sir. - It's the same thing with this thing. Hmm, British thing. Either way, each of on wheels weighs 6,000 pounds, and yet they're all faster than. (engines revving) The fastest heavyweights in the world. Or are they? You're gonna wanna watch this one. (dramatic music) (engines revving) (drums beating) (alarm sounding) (dramatic music) (engine revving) The Ford F-150 Raptor R is the sort of automotive Swiss army knife and probably isn't in where the Swiss army knife comes from. But here, it's king of the road. 700 supercharged V8 horsepower. Enough suspension travel and a 10 speed automatic like a gun slinger from (engine revving) And multiple gunshots are exactly what the Cadillac Escalade Kids these days love their crackle tunes, but Cadillac has out deafened all of them. This is one of the loudest and it's glorious. (engine revving) And the engine is a full liter 6.2 liters of supercharged push rod V8 that makes 682 horsepower. With the same 10 speed and weighing just one this is going to be one hell of a race. (dramatic music) If you expect the Range five liter supercharged V8, It has another ancient V8, now making 523 horsepower. And if you're wondering why a BMW engine in it years and BMW broke up, so am I. I have no explanation for this. It makes no sense, but it (engine revving) Step aside, all of you, because the Rolls-Royce the largest engine of the group at six and three quarter liters, but the most cylinders, shoved up its very dignified derriere. See ya, toots. (dramatic music) It weighs exactly nine (stars twinkling) (bottle shattering) It weighs exactly the same as the Raptor. And now we need to find out (dramatic music) (engines revving) (timer sounding) (engines revving) (dramatic music) (tape rewinding) (engines revving) (dramatic music) Whoa. Well, there are only two words for that. It's holy and something I'm Okay, the Raptor R and then explodes off the line, hitting 60 in three (engine revving) That's Porsche Carrera GT territory. And that's not the most impressive thing. The most impressive thing is how hard that V8 pulls at the top end of the tac. I have never seen anything This high rev urgency puts this thing on a different planet to the other cars. It crossed the line more than 100 feet in front of the Cadillac. (dramatic music) Which is even more insane has already been sitting speed limiter long before The Raptor R's engine comes but the Escalade V's engine But it actually comes where it makes precisely (engine revving) The V is about five and a but it nearly matches the Raptor's speed by the time it crosses. That's because the Raptor is pressing up against its limiter, but the Ultimately though, it's by 60 miles an hour, by its extra 215 pounds The culprit? Well, there are three of them. Number one, Cadillac makes far less power at the very top of the tac. Number two, it's shifts sound And number three, gearing. Once you account for the the Cadillac's gears are about 15% longer than the Raptor R's. (orchestral music) The Rolls-Royce might but it did damn near keep the whole way down the track. In fact, once the two trucks they were separated by the entire way down the quarter. And at these speeds, that translates into a (engines revving) So sorry, darling. Better luck next time. God, that never gets old. (chuckling) (dramatic music) That is a hell of a it accomplishes that and outrageous comfort. And B, it has a near 20% (dramatic music) And you can blame that overachievement on the enormous twin turbo V12's perfectly flat torque curve. Or perhaps blame is to lie on the spirit of ecstasy located (dramatic music) The Range Rover is the but weigh lighter than most. It's the only car here to It hurdles itself to 60 in 4.6 seconds, but winds up eight and behind the Raptor. (engines revving) (dramatic music) That is really not bad considering this is of horsepower relative to that Raptor. Hey, maybe that's why they put As always, they're overachievers. (dramatic music) (engines revving) (dramatic music) Four of the trucks in by our friends at Falcon Visit them on the web and for an up to 35% discount The link is above and in Thank you Falcon. We couldn't do this without you. So the Raptor can leave But what happens when we pit it against heavyweights (engines revving) This is a Mercedes G63 AMG, a shape that's been It loves to almost pull its front wheels off the ground on a hard launch, which is only one of (engine revving) That is a Lamborghini Urus. It is the most successful selling almost as many units in five years as Lamborghini in the previous 50. Neither can match the but it needs to be said, the little G Wagon is 300 pounds less. And that positively tiny over there weighs 750 pounds less. So what happens now? Let's find out. (dramatic music) (engines revving) (dramatic music) (radar gun beeping) (engines revving) - Well done. King Charles shall be most elated. - The Mercedes front end but the longer wheel base Raptor just leaves the AMG for dead, hitting 60 1/3 of a second sooner. It continues to pull the whole way, finishing well ahead of Meanwhile, neither can come (engines revving) Which uses its summer and low-ish weight to It doesn't quite unseat this car's mechanical twin, But it's enough for the even ahead of the Raptor. (engines revving) (leaderboard ticking) Showing that lightweight matters, even when you're talking And by the way, a gallon of Grey Poupon weighs nine and a half pounds, but we emptied it for science. - [Randy] Science, so we should - Shut up, Randy, you pompous twat. (orchestral music)