Repair work begins on the launch flight 7? A new expansion to the and you won't believe how big it is. Groundwork and I'm not talking about Starbase. And My name is Felix. Welcome to What About It!? Let's dive right in! Starship Updates What a week! With SpaceX now targeting January up pace quickly, especially as there are still at they're ready 4 flight 2 do it a seventh time. that would mean a 53-day turnaround time is a bit more than the turnaround time between a second-fastest turnaround time for the SpaceX has been around 4 more than 20 years to do and very little time to do it. the launch site has seen quite a lot of At least 42 workers rushed to inspect the inch of the launch pad and begin repair work. time as it did after flight 5. Booster 14 still meaning the quicker this pad is repaired, 2 important tests. Cryo-proof and static fire! However, given that shielding blocks our views see parts being replaced or the booster being how well it survived. a bit more data on is the tower. prevented SpaceX from communicating with the That's why we've seen so much activity on them been puzzling 4 us 2, to say the least. Chopsticks were raised to the top of the tower and As a fun fact, this position is roughly 420 feet test and calibration of the catch hardware. the Chopsticks were back on 4 some reason SpaceX has put 2 plates of We aren't quite sure what this is 4; however, The first idea is that these are When a booster or ship is coming in for and then the vehicle slowly slides down before are in direct contact with the padding, which can Therefore, these may be a way to test mentioning this because the theory is out I think that this is unlikely, though. to be on the chopsticks is that Looking at the design, these may if that's the case, they can be used to Another theory we've seen pop up in discussions Ships 30 and booster 12. That makes 42, it would make very little sense 4 SpaceX 2 think they could be? Let us know in the comments One other part of the tower is very much needed Here, we can see drastic improvements compared On all earlier flights, the SQD needed substantial replacements being standard after each launch. launches later that has changed, as almost All components are in much better We can tell a huge difference by comparing previous launches. Just the difference between We can also see that SpaceX has made quite a components. The best example is flex hosing, it that would be torn up after each launch. layer entirely now, or it's wrapped It's similar to many other parts of the SQD, It seems that SpaceX has opted to shield the If that's the case, Pad B's SQD may use the same as we had previously speculated. The result is the Speaking of Pad B, let's take a look at the been waiting for this. Now it's finally happening! tower seems mostly complete, with just Certain parts of the Tower have been large sections still receiving visible work This means the tower is But there is one problem 4 the 2: how will SpaceX the crane that we thought would do that? resident, the LR 11000 from Liebherr. most likely seen this exact crane before. its first launch pad, they used one to help with that construction. stack the chopsticks with two smaller cranes. As their branding on it, why not bring in another catching 4 birds with 2 stones. as it means SpaceX will likely be ready And there's another sign we've been able soon as well. 4 that we need to head 2 But first, we've looked into our channel metrics, viewers who have not subscribed yet. further by double-checking that you've hit that While you're at it, give us 420 likes and gain access to a massive amount of extra content! photo galleries including all those we've posted than 420 posts in the past 2 years alone with chats with me, you name it. back to Sanchez for the two chopsticks! chopsticks in preparation for stacking. These Most of the work being done right now are using lessons learned from catch testing These mainly consist of reinforcements weight and stress of catching a falling Similar upgrades were seen 4 a while on the first more difficult to implement as they had already it took almost 42 man lifts to complete them. less time 4 these upgrades 2 be completed. Much given the ease of access, they're I used past tense there, as it appears SpaceX has begun removing some of the the carriage and chopsticks, and all that With these now mostly complete, the only piece which has been undergoing assembly So once that's complete, the tower will be in its days until this new tower will be operational! of construction. Turning our attention just we can see something spectacular. in February 2022 and is now finally reaching that was roughly a thousand days ago, not 420. StarFactory is complete and should be fully Musk's comments just before flight 4. that are still under construction. referred to as the walkway; however, now we the office building and the Star Factory, This connection really kicked off just purchased a small plot of land right in After just a couple of months, with the roof almost completely installed and From the highway, we can see just how quickly SpaceX has managed to fill Fortunately for us, they didn't just us peek in through yet another gigantic So there you have it. is going to look like for a while now, Some work still needs to be done. The other and the internals need to be finished, but for Although the skyline is going to get changed But First! and we all know the internet is buzzing with your data might be up for grabs too. It would digital footprint! That's where Incogni steps Incogni is like having a digital security stays private. Imagine a personal investigator requests, and keeps your information locked down. calls right when we're trying to relax. Those floating around in the wrong places. Incogni brokers to remove your personal information It's fully automated, so while you're enjoying create an account, grant Incogni permission, don't blame me if your phone battery lasts longer! at the link below for 60% off an annual plan. Protect your privacy, support What About Click the link below and give spam We knew 4 a while that 2 megabays won't Yep, we are going from a MegaBay to a Okay, but how do we know this? listing for a lead engineer on a gigabay. it being completed as well. front of the new garage, we've started seeing more piles... then another 2, and so on. While it's not However, if that is the case, we'll likely be be renamed to the KiloBay? this isn't too big of a surprise. it seemed to have been mostly replaced 4 a while for miscellaneous tasks now, such as replacing However, these jobs are likely or they'll be taken over by another section Highbay 4 20 or more ships that will come out Because of this, SpaceX is likely eyeing this down the HighBay, they might as well do so for a difference between a HighBay and a MegaBay. now. SpaceX needs more space. construction speeds. The ultimate goal is to build facility, or at least 42 Starships every 21 weeks. Flight Sevens Hardware. On the 25th, we saw 2. The lift height is about 4 stories That means they're aiming 4 moving one Seeing as ship 34 just received its aft section it's unlikely that this will be used 4 lifting that this is 4 the block 2 ship 33. be complete with all six engines installed. within the next 2 days. They're aiming 4 It's truly remarkable how long it took 4 SpaceX a whole new design. This will likely be block 2 ship, but that may lead to a problem. ship, they will run out of space pretty quickly, only allowed to launch Starship 4 five times a That may change soon, though, as the revised environmental assessment, which would it would be what's needed 2 keep ramping up! after that. However, Kathy Lueders the General SpaceX's goal for 2025 was 25 launches, which should be reduced once the Cape launch site is launches per year in 2026! case until just a few days ago! work in the wrong direction being done, things off again at the world's busiest Spaceport. of it seems to be prep work, but this is just the SpaceX is clearly prepping for things to raising a crane to assist in construction. After all, SpaceX has quite They're still going 4 2 towers at LC39a. this might just be temporary to ease regulatory ship catch on flight 8 and has already catch-only Tower might very well be temporary. Starships from 39a is taking a bit longer can't launch from 39a, another heavy-lift rocket 4 years are left 2 make it happen! currently the most powerful commercially available that no other rocket can and does it much cheaper. Of course, once Starship comes online, it Falcon Heavy over time, meaning its days are will likely turn out to be its defining mission! numerous extraordinary missions, including Clipper. This mission will study Europa, one of massive subsurface ocean, anywhere from 42 to In the future, it will also launch missions will hunt for exoplanets around other stars! Heavy may be its defining Come on, what is that mission? If you haven't heard of the Dragonfly Mission set to be one of, if not the most Dragonfly is NASA's mission to with a flying drone the size of a car! they will fly a car-sized drone on a moon! and dense atmosphere, which make flight relatively 4 us as humanity, are the only 2 places where You know while being around This mission is set to launch in 2028. 4 years 2 wait a bit, but it will definitely be worth it! much as possible 4 more than 2 years. prove that we're not alone. Titan is the only ocean on the surface, albeit liquid methane. to have liquid water, as the surface is made of in this case, instead of being volcanoes that Titan is one of the most fascinating and dragonfly is the most interesting In 4 years, Falcon Heavy will NASA also saved quite a bit of money will only cost around 250 million dollars. competition against it is starting to heat up now shown off their fully-stacked rocket. as New Glenn is now officially ready for It was rolled up to the launch pad on the After raising the rocket to a vertical position final checks were performed 4 this prototype The pictures Blue Origin shared and they give us our first real look at this months of looking at renders and being left in And it is a beauty of a rocket! it was lowered back down for final preparations, It will likely stay here until its fiery test! as this rocket has been one us to watch besides SpaceX's vehicles. third orbital-class rocket to attempt a propulsive try, depending on how quickly it can Launch, it to launch something into orbit after the Falcon 9. New Glenn's launch is still set for this doesn't appear to be an orbital launch, so it may Best of luck to Blue Origin and New can't wait to see all your hard work in action! that like button at least 42 times. Subscribe is how you can help us for free! Check out our A new Raptor Design and our epic brand-new Flight perfect Christmas gift! Link is in the description want to train your space IQ even further, watch you very much for watching, and I'll see you