If you want to learn how to play chess, then I will show you how to setup the board and the pieces move, pawn promotion, en passant, I will teach you everything about chess. At the same time, I will try to keep this can understand. So don't forget to share this video with your the great game of chess. At the beginning of the game, you need to in such a manner that each player has the side. Regarding the pieces, the second row for each And the first row should be setup as follows. The rooks belong to the corner squares. And now moving inward, the knights belong Yes, this is called a knight &amp; not a horse. Then next to the knights, we have our bishops. After this, we place our queens on her matching a white square and the black queen goes on And then finally, we place the king on the If the board is set up correctly, each piece The queen across the queen and the king across That's how it should be.The player with the one move, and then black makes one move. Each player will make alternate moves like Each of the 6 different pieces have a unique Let's start with the piece which is the easiest The rook moves in a plus pattern just like Which means it can move any number of squares in this position. Rooks can capture the first enemy piece they When you capture an enemy piece in chess, remove it from the board.Now let's talk about The bishop can move diagonally any number From this position, it can go to any of the Bishops can capture the first enemy piece Now let's look at the queen. The queen is considered the most powerful the rook and Bishop. Which means it can move any number of squares From this position, the queen can go to any The Queen can capture the first enemy piece now. The knight moves in the shape of an L. Moving and then one square just like that. The knight from this position, can move to The knight is the only piece that can jump Meaning if there were any pieces here right those pieces and move. If there is any opponent piece on these highlighted the pawns now. The pawn is actually the most complicated A pawn is the only piece that moves in one direction. Pawns move one step forward towards the opponent's But if it is their first move, then they can two squares forward like this. After it's first move, the pawn can only move pawn moves two squares and this pawn moves Each of these highlighted pawns now could Now, if white moves his pawn 2 squares forward You might be thinking that this white pawn Like I told you earlier, pawns move one way Remember, pawns can only capture pieces diagonally directly in front of them. In fact, this pawn simply cannot move or capture. He's stuck and has no legal moves. However, this pawn does. This pawn can move forward like this or he you know that pawns only move forward and But what's going to happen if this pawn gets or if any of these black pawns get down to Well, what happens is something called pawn And what that means is that the pawn simply You can promote it to any of these 4 pieces, about the most important piece and that is The objective of chess is to checkmate the The king is priceless because if you lose The king moves one square at a time in any From this position, he can go to any of these results in the opponent's king being threatened, So the term 'check' simply refers to the king For example, In this position, it's black And if the rook goes to e8, then the white He's being attacked and needs to do something When you're in check, there are three ways You can try to move to a safe square, or block piece. In this position, white can do all three. He can move to a safe square. All of these squares I have highlighted are The king can move to any of these. You can also block the check. And by block, I mean to place a piece in-between Here, you can block the check with your bishop, Or you can also capture the checking piece So again, from this position, white can do He can move to a safe square, block the check, check and there is no move to protect the The game is over &amp; he wins. For example, In this position, if the black He's in checkmate because he cannot move away or capture the checking piece. He can't go to any of these three squares He cannot go to any of these two squares because The bishop is not in a position to capture to block the check. For these reasons, the king is in checkmate Sometimes, a chess game can also end in a Let's first look at a draw by stalemate. In this position, if the queen moves to g3, a drawn position. Stalemate occurs under the following conditions. It's your turn to move, your king is not in of your pieces. In this position, it's white to move. White is not in check, and has no legal moves. All three of these squares are covered by And this pawn is also not able to move. This is an example of stalemate.Now The game If it's a king and knight versus a king, there's Similarly, if it's a king versus a king and And of course, if we are down to just king each other. And the game is a draw.Now let's talk about This is a position neither side is likely However, even if the game continues, the game this time by the 50 move rule. The 50 move rule basically states that if without making any pawn moves or any captures, be drawn by threefold repetition which means 3 times during the game, then the game is For example, in this position, it's white Take a note of the pieces. This is the first time we're seeing this particular After white moves, then black plays the bishop goes back. This is now the second instance of the exact And if it happens one more time, after a few third instance of the same position. And hence, the game is drawn by threefold rules in chess. The first one is a special pawn rule, en passant. In this position, it's black to move. And if this pawn moves one square forward, square diagonally. And this same pawn, instead of going one square, to avoid this pawn from capturing it. Well then, we have the en passant rule which the black pawn as if it had only moved one We have that option on our very next turn So in this position, the white pawn can still one square forward. Now this is a special rule involving the pawns Now if black plays this pawn and white doesn't and then black also makes some other move. Now white can no longer capture En passant. Because you have to capture it on your very also a special move in chess called castling It's the only time you can move two of your Here's what it looks like. In this position, white can move the king And the rook is now going to be placed on That's kingside castling. Now similarly, if the king moves two squares on the other side of the king right next to That's queenside castling. Now there are a couple of conditions which It must be the king's first move. It must be that rook's first move and there and the rook. Those are just a couple of the basic conditions. However, there are two more conditions. In this position, black rook is on e5 and And when you are in check, you cannot castle That is one rule that you must follow. Here's another one. You also cannot castle through check. In this position, for example, white cannot this square. So you need to remember both these conditions. You cannot castle when you are in check and in the comments if you have any questions Also, let me know if I have missed out on Hit the thumbs up if you liked this video. And don't forget to Subscribe for more such For some interesting chess tips, tricks and Links are in the description box below. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in