Ready? Yes. Ready. Alright, guys, come on, let's go. If some mayhem starts, I'll take Their presumptive positions are being so we are leaving. Ok, let's move! Shall we follow you? Yes, yes, yes. Faster! Control! Cover up. Go! Move it, move it, move it! Ok, ok, ok. Over there are already the Russians. Lots of burnt equipment. And now we are just like a target, There's a broken bridge ahead. Are you tired of living, a provocateur? You just won't see your child. How much is your head worth? Young man, you are holding up the queue. He's actually filming us. AFU are coming, AFU are nearby. Overwhelming emotions! Thank you! Thank you, thank you! Get into the cars and let's get Sit in the front! Kherson city. In every sense, in the South of Ukraine. In spring 2022, it was the only regional center of Ukraine that the occupation forces managed to take. I threw down my glasses and a pen They took them, tied Bags on their heads And already in fall, the whole the long-awaited liberation of Kherson. It's not a dream, it's real. Oh, that's cool! Hooray! Where did you come from? OMG! A year ago, we were the first journalists to get to the just liberated Kherson. The atmosphere which I've never And a year after the great Kherson victory, we come back to see how the de-occupied city lives today. The shelling is enormous. This is how we work. We don't even turn cell phone sound loudly, so that we can hear where the shelling hit. And is there any safe place here? No Together with us are those whose intelligence and efforts Andrii Kovalchuk, a General, who manages the defense a plan for Kherson region deoccupation. And Oleksandr Tarnavskyi, the one who, after the fabulous was appointed to lead the Ukrainian How much did they give for you? 2 million Russian rubles minimum. We want them to be liberated as they liberated us. We will leave a photo and when you Ok. Glory to Kherson! On November 11, 2022, news began to state that there are no more Russians in Kherson. There was so little information so we went to Kherson to see We are 30 km from Kherson. OMG, look how everything is damaged here. It is clear that everything Here are damaged blindages, destroyed But this is a special day, because actually today Ukrainian troops are We were driving along Mykolaiv-Kherson coming near the line that was once the line of contact. If you look along the highway, that there are many traces You can see shell craters from damaged power lines and lots of fragments on the road surface. Have a look, see how everything is smashed! Holy Jesus! What is this? This is a Russian BMP-3. You see, a twin 100mm and 30mm cannon. It's been a year since Kherson Kherson is a symbol of victory, But the more important aspect is the liberation not only of Kherson, but of the right bank of Ukraine, because almost the entire Odesa region, Mykolaiv region and probably part of Vinnytsia region were under threat. It is also important for society that Odesa region was also And we are talking about Snake Island. If the enemy had remained then believe me, not a single boat along the coast of the Black Sea Their strategic task was to cut us off from the sea and reach Transnistria by land. How did we manage to resist? We had no choice but to defend ourselves. Practically everyone joined in - both local residents and everyone who could hold they summoned up and maximum fire By the end of March, the first reports to Putin were that it was necessary to withdraw from the Right Bank. Their command understood, that they Of course, Putin told to stand You managed to take part in the largest offensive operations of this full-scale war so far, and you moved from Kharkiv direction When you were told that you had important baton, do you remember And do you remember when that was? At the end of September. There have been a number of calls that you know you need to take immediately, but you don't know in what order And I even had the call from the President. Did you have missed calls? Yes, I did. If it's not a secret, how did you miss Well, I don't envy you. Let's say, it's evening time, when, you know, I decided to take a shower and left my phone on the bench. I get out, look around, And the phone rang again. Again. Is this urgent? No, no. It's not the President now, right? No So, we were interrupted by a call at Yeah, I came out of the shower and as usual, I took the phone to check it and it was all red from missed calls. The commander-in-chief, the commander and the last one I just sat down on the bench as I was. What could have happened during this time? And who did you call first? Well, I called the commander first. Mr. Syrskyi? Yes, it was General Syrskyi. I asked him if that wasn't a joke. He said no. Then I asked what I should do. He said I needed to call back. And so, over the phone, I was trusted About 24 hours later I was already there. Is that Posad-Pokrovske settlement, right? Yes All summer there were very fierce It was not possible to move the line much. And today is actually the second day after the Russian invaders' withdrawal. I really didn't think it would happen Like barbarians, roughly said, they run, I have an aunt here, my mother's sister, Her house is destroyed, that's it, The settlement we are coming closer There was a defense line already I remember quite well how we drove It was a completely different picture here. Yes. Everything was in ruins, everything It was a terrible picture, of course, and these houses were destroyed... Everything is destroyed. Of all the devastation that exists you can look at a broken fence, but when you find things like children's toys, it's heartbreaking. And you think, my God, these why should they suffer, they haven't done anything bad but they already had such For a certain period of time, we had The guys commanded and controlled That's all what's left. There was a control point down When we came here, but then the whole period of time Can you imagine to control your unit You know they know you're here. Yes. And they aim here constantly. I am 100% sure that the guys who performed tasks here in such conditions simply didn't have time and opportunity to think about such level of danger. How far are we from the front line now? About 40 km 40 km. So Lancets can reach here. Correct. You are being hunted. Well, you are the target Yes. I am. Officially you are. They even wrote in public sources that Kovalchuk was wanted. Yes, they did. That is, how long can we stay here? We have to leave because... We can't stay any longer Yes, because safety for local residents is in the first place, We are driving up to the baseline These fields are still mined, Ok, tracking is desirable. Tracking because it hasn't been Correct, there still might You can see how deep the enemy And the positions themselves because you can't get here These are simply irrigation canals flowed from the Dnipro River and fed Yes. That is, these canals have become barriers. Yes. Almost the entire area in Kherson region is exactly like this: field, canal, wood line, field, canal, wood line, etc. This is how they hid their assets, see? They used to drive there and they managed, you see, to cover Here they dug pits. The pits were dug. Can you imagine what earth layer it is? And even if you use artillery you practically cannot knock them It is possible to emphasize, how many shells from here, from this place, flew to Posad-Pokrovske to hit our servicemen, our houses. Even in this position you can see Seven shells flew from this position alone. And how many such positions That's why Posad-Pokrovske Yes. We undermined dams and canals so that it was possible to go further. We forced a breach in the defense and thus moved forward. And here they lost a lot. You see, these are fragments from To ther credit, their troops were well prepared and trained in this area. But any defense can be breached If, first of all, we are aware of it, if the means allow and the troops In November 2022, it was impossible along this highway to Kherson easily. 20 kilometers from the city, we suddenly received a command that we should get off the main road. Ok, we are detouring right? Correct. Most likely, So, it is important to understand that starts from the roadside Russians left many "gifts", so to say, A lot of troops were blown up Really? Even in these two days, right? Look, no one even harvested. I was thinking of going out to pick it, Yes... The pepper harvest, but... It is not accidentally unharvested I should say that 45% of their defense success was from the areas of the terrain where they mined it. Moreover, they have also been preparing for the defense on this bank not for one day. Every Russian soldier considered to shield himself with a minefield. There were cases when, they trip their own mines. Today, both civilians and military a mine somewhere in the demining process. But this problem, I tell you, Maybe even for decades. It is very touching how people The woman has tears in her eyes. The country will change enormously. Because people understood They will already appreciate every little thing. I am so... I am so sure of it. 4-5 km to Kherson. 4 kilometers away, in the driveway This small town became famous because of the events that took place The Russians regularly suffered but didn't stop bringing here more And all the Ukrainians, rejoicing, 5:0, 10:0, 25:0 in favor Why Chornobaivka and what actually Well, let's try to figure it out. What is the strategic importance The enemy took advantage of the fact that there is a developed infrastructure there. Well, there is an airfield, and landing of aircraft, namely They set up their coms there, their control tools and from there they managed their group, which operated in the southern direction. Oh, so serious? Here we are approaching the terminal One should understand that the events that took place which is on the right, but we are going This is how the entrance to the main Can't make it here. Everything is dug across. Look at these trenches. You just won't get here. They even installed such blocks and an auto barrier that punctures Holy crap, there was clearly Armored vehicles were hidden here. And more and more armored vehicles. They already had time, had they already concreted them. And we were even forced to hit the plants where they made dragon's teeth and other things, concrete pill-boxes, etc. The strengthened fortifications you see, clearly no It is even funny to hear that They were simply forced to escape. Leaving such positions is simply absurd. They just ran away. Scenery for shooting an apocalyptic movie. The end of the world. Burnt to the core buses, the airport, from which the letters Everything is burned out, glass is broken, there's glass underfoot, gas masks. Oh, what a picture people already are God and Ataman Zaluzhnyi are with us. People's love for the Commander-in-Chief. This is how the main terminal Everything is strewn with fragments. The main gate to our southern Another feature of Chornobaivka is that they were territorially close where Russian troops were defending. There are certain canons in the military when 80-90 km is exactly the distance where senior commanders should be, It was in the civilian terminal where the control point of the 58th Army Along the horizon there is lots dozens of vehicles. These are the assets of the Russian army. Thus, our artillery hit effectively One day at the control point, we observed about 8 helicopters near the airport in Chornobaivka, so everyone was waiting to open fire. I had to give the command to open fire. I saw 2 more helicopters coming. I ordered to hold and not to rush, Those 2 helicopters landed. Then the column started moving. We saw that the column was moving, going the column was moving, going And when they all had gathered, And there were serious consequences 2 generals died there in Chornobaivka, right in the airport building, and a lot of officers as well. And there were 26 such cases. People constantly talked about Chornobaivka, because it was one of the few Yes. This score, which the whole 10:0, 15:0, 20:0... Yes. For our society and probably but for everyone who supported every score in our favor lifted It inspired the soldiers. How much did Chornobaivka give us? I will say that it would be much to liberate the right bank because a significant part remained here, their technical means. You mean enemy ones? Yes. So it accelerated I love Chornobaivka. Probably not just me. This is our Chornobaivka, this is the place that worked for us. Here, on the left, two serious which were ground aviation control stations. Very expensive. They could control all air traffic That is, in principle, it was a key base Correct. They could see any movement on the territory of Ukraine from here; they controlled their aviation from here. And during the infliction of fire their technical means and from where they managed their units. That is, we do not hide that We don't hide it. Well, this was we wanted to keep it, but we just You can destroy the terminal Yes, and this was the beginning I remember I was here when we were I flew here to shoot Oleshky Sands, We have our very own Dead Sea You probably took your suitcase Somewhere here, yes. It's sad to see all this, but now, I understand that it was worth it. Yes, it's worth it. And we will certainly restore it as well. At the expense of those who came here, unwanted, whom we did not ask to come. And it will be even better. Yes, it is a pity to lose such place, but it is a small sacrifice You see, they wrote when leaving: we, a bad word, will come back. "Russian Airborne Forces rock". Sure no one will ever come back anywhere. A year ago, in Chornobaivka, Major General of the Armed Forces He conducted the defense of Mykolaiv so he knows a lot about the events Columns were formed here They wanted to enter from all sides. They also wanted to enter Mykolaiv, right? Yes, they did. They moved brazenly, openly. They thought that they would simply outnumber us, that we will be scared. Because, I'll tell you honestly, the forces and resources that were available at the time of my arrival in Mykolaiv, well, they were not enough How did we do it? Well, it's a miracle. Chornobaivka is what people But no one really knew anything. We only knew the score: 1:0, 2:0, 10:0. How did everything actually happen? In fact, I should tell you, this was It was necessary to go outside Mykolaiv, get closer to Chornobaivka in order This is basically what we did. We drove out there, towards Oleksandrivka, launched Grad MRLS And almost every time we were leaving And even once when we came back, one I mean everything was very fast Thus, they understood Of course they did. So you had just minutes. We had seconds actually. So, we did a salvo and after it, in many cases the vehicle did not it drove to a safe distance and there it began all these measures bringing the vehicle to combat status on the march. The main work was done by Grad MRLS. No, a lot of artillery worked here such Tochka-U even worked here. It is a very strong strategic point for Everything is available here for that. In principle this was the right decision But when the place started any sane commander would change But they didn't, moreover they They decided that if they dug in... They thought if they dug in, This did not save them. What does this persistence That there are... This is not persistence, this is stupidity. I'm telling you, these are just They are taught by the Soviet Union textbooks and they don't understand that in our time, in our war, you must act outside the box. If you act standardly, We were non-standard. We made two artillery formations. One formation worked exclusively the second one worked during the day. So, at about 10 pm, our artillery and it just was hitting them all night. It has been hitting them in a specific way: it was not necessary to hit them E.g. the crew just fired two rounds and We are called back and told that they so the crew hit that position. And so they chased them until 4 am. That's it, at 4 am we finished and at 5 am they were given the command Who will attack? There's wet rag there. People are frozen, people simply Brilliant. Simply brilliant. Don't let them sleep. To wear them down. Yes, do not let them sleep. We just We simply demoralized them so much that they began to surrender, moreover, Do you remember the first time Not the specific date, but in general This happened in early March. It was the locals who first told us that a very large number of equipment So, I passed this information to Kovalchuk was in command, and they inflicted fire damage and I think even the aircrafts, helicopters and tried to take off, they did not so and were destroyed here This was the first time. To be honest, we thought that defeat for the first 2-3 times there, that everything is sighted here Fortunately, they operate by the old It's written "this is an advantageous place", so they make their way here. They force the way, we defeat them We crash them, they keep coming. When we took the map, it stated that at 12.00 they would start moving I gave this data to the artilleryman; and said: "Mr. General, sir, don't they They'll probably change the plan, right?" I told him to aim. He's aiming. At 12.10 we have a call saying that they are starting to move in order to deploy into battle formations. I ordered to fire. We blasted them. He comes... The artilleryman comes and says: Here they have it written. It is written, that's it, and they according to plan, according to schedule. And why such a difference? Why can we be flexible and quickly while they stop in Chornobaivka It is perceived quite normally when your plan didn't work out in our case. It's called "no need to bash your If it is possible to cancel this plan from another side or place, that's ok. Russian can neither process nor accept it. For them, it is considered that you failed. You've been planning something but so you must break this wall with your If to draw an arrow on their map, We were fully aware of their movements. This gave us great priority. Because when they were lining up we were already starting to smash them. People helped, right? Just ordinary people. These were children, one old lady. Here in Chornobaivka there was. There was also an old man, an ordinary old man, whom we asked to go and have a look. He replied that it was already cold But then he climbed the fence, looked and told us the equipment quantity, where it was located, showed the landmarks. We put it all on the map, then handed the artillerymen and successful fire Amazing! The whole country applauded saying "Oh, Chornobaivka, 2:0, 6:0, 10:0". This has already become a joke. But there was no time for jokes here. Yes, no time for jokes here, because we had two people missing they went for this very important intelligence information to give us. They were caught, Russians saw on their phones that and their fate is still unknown to us. Missing in action, right? Missing in action, right. Most likely they were just killed. Yes, most likely they were simply tortured. Well, I am sure, there are still who you know are the heroes. Yes, there are some, there were some. You do understand why things didn't Because the people of Kherson rose They said they didn't need any didn't want it, they asked Kherson showed that they had their Ukraine, their own land And everyone resisted. Everyone helped as best as they could. This is not a war between Ukrainian This the war of the entire nation. And to be honest, we, the military, Near the airport there is many residents of which, while helped the Defense Forces of Ukraine with information about the enemy Here are the houses broken by shrapnel. There is Halytska street on the other side, they suffered a lot there. Good afternoon! Chornobaivka, hello! This was unexpected! Hello. Hello! Hello! Oh, my goodness, hello! Hello. How are you? Oh, it's scary. We sat in the basements, we cried, we were shelled, the windows are broken, and there was a hit into the house. They shelled chaotically. Wrecked homes, all in pieces. It's very nice to see the military So grateful, we hugged them, Even the kids brought them cookies. People gave everything they could share. People brought eggs, everything they had. We cooked borscht, baked pies, etc. We settled them in the houses Happy tears? Here even the men cried when they Tell me, please, do you need There are diapers for children... No, we don't have infants. And who needs help? Go to the tower. There is a large Why wouldl we take it what if Ok, bye-bye! Thank you! Thank you very much! Good bye! Glory to Ukraine! Hello How are you doing? Well, you know, we are shocked, we still cannot understand Would you like to have a look? A piece of it, well, the first line. Certainly. They tried to take my car. I told them that it was out of order. Did they check? No, thank God, they didn't. The only thing is that there are now they are in cages, but when the Russians came, the dogs and I was afraid that the dogs On the first day when this all happened, my friends started calling me at 5 am on My thoughts were like "What do you What war? I have an important I had the same thing. They also said I said: "I have a meeting." I was sitting in the vestibule, I was sitting there, thinking that for a couple more hours, I was drinking coffee when I saw the helicopter unit and fireworks began. And that's how it all started. These are, by the way, that flew in Ukraine, here in Chornobaivka. There were two missiles which hit Of course, there was a shock; First of all, I let my dogs out. They are not allowed to run but I let them out so that they at least We didn't understand what to do. Then... Then the Russian troops began to come Here is the military unit. Here is a smashed military..? These are military barracks, yeah. Was it smashed on the 24th? No, no, it wasn't, our troops did this. So, they hit when the Russians Yes, they hit the Russians. And when they hit straight the barracks, because we thought that our houses The detonation was severe. Everything was blown up sparkling Do you need any help? There are six children here, so I'm bringing them some help. Oh, are you helping too? Everyone helps each other, right? Well... Here's our first row and There are a lot of children here. Six of them. Hello. Dima Hi, nice to meet you. Hi. Glory to Ukraine! Hi! How are you? There are six of you, I know, right? Yes Glory to Ukraine! Glory to the Heroes! Hello. And you spent the entire war here Yes. We didn't leave. On the other side. It's very close. Hi all! A large family of real heroes Glory to the Heroes! Hello. Hello. It was scary. We sat here while missile attacks, We were hiding. Why didn't you leave? It's our home. I have old parents who live We couldn't just leave all that. One is in the neighboring village, That's awful. The most difficult thing was when They came with machine guns for inspection. Oh! Shh, everything is fine. These are our outcomings. Ok. Everything is fine. It was scary. So as not to be Some kind of outcoming. Are you afraid? No. I am. We're already used to it. How did the Chechens behave? Well... Thank God, they didn't touch us. But they were driving there Did you have contacts with the Russians? They came here. They kicked out fence doors, gates, went in and pointed the guns. We handed our documents immediately and they propped the doors open. We said at once that there were Well, at least there was one he was from a large family as well, he asked how many children we had, And that's it, that's why they didn't I once met two soldiers. They came up to me and I asked them One said they needed Zelenskyy. I said: "There is no Zelenskyy He's not here, why did you come here, I was just standing talking to them. And for 8 months we had The most terrifying thing is that 12 or 18 salvos were fired along The evacuation began and Russian soldier approached me I asked why? He said: "The AFU will come, they will We've lived near the AFU for 40 years, no one cut us, and now they will. The main thing is you are all safe It is the most important. We have one person in our village the second one was killed by a shell What do you mean was shot in the yard? They shot him dead. He went to have Russians shot him in the yard. to a military unit and they shot him. Well, that's how they had fun. We walked in dashes. They were shooting here. I mean you walk and they can This place here was their final destination. The funniest thing was that they are being crashed here, being smashed, hit. And we already know that if they are hit, we need to quickly hide in the shelter. And the most galling thing is that the civilian population with cluster Revenge? Yes, it was revenge. But we knew that they would come and they would be destroyed there anyway. It was small for us, but pride. We could hear our guys worked. And obviously you sent the coordinates. You talk on the phone to your mother. And you just say: "They are shooting They arrived at the military unit." And literally in 30 minutes you hear the So, the main rule is to talk to your Well, yes, communicate with someone... Well, we didn't communicate with Well, they could also listen in and punish We walked around very cautiously, we didn't take our phones with us, because if they saw, they wouldn't you had Telegram or Viber on your phone. For this they could send you to the you were just taken prisoner. Could you please tell us about Thank God it is still there. This is how people defend their land. What they do is they provide data where and at what positions Generally speaking, all accurate infliction of damage on the enemy, where there are mass casualties, the work of intelligence and partisans. These are the people who, risking provide us with such data. Almost everyone here, probably 90%, How did common people help you, First of all, the information that came That's the first thing. Although there was a percentage of it, you know, that needed to be Secondly, the belief that they are there and we will come there. It turned out that as we we felt the warmth of those emotions in this victory, which was When our troops came in, we all ran to meet them there, at the Legend Hotel. Grown up men simply cried with happiness. After the Ukrainian troops came, even nature became immediately alive. The whole village revived. People started walking the streets. It was such a big, gigantic rarity to see And now people started walking and I recently even heard children It was such a surprise to hear People are welcoming. This is Kherson already, right? Here we are passing this span but only yesterday SOF came here. My guys came in to check Back then, in these days of November, And there was a thought that perhaps like "we are going to go in now, and I even heard the idea of a nuclear strike Many people expected some kind That's right, yes, we had that impression. I even remember the first days, when we felt as if something was going to happen here, but it didn't. For some reason. Or we managed to do it faster than planned. Everyone understood, including the enemy, that this was a trap for them. If they didn't understand that, they wouldn't be running away from I'd like more details about how they How was the situation seen from their side? And why was this, as Surovikin said Their troops were separated by such The main part of the forces remained where we conducted an offensive operation. They understood very well that could either be encircled or destroyed. For a Russian, the word encircling And when they hear the word encircling, They are afraid of the encircling. They are, very much afraid. all possible measures not to be encircled. That is, they will better run away but they will never be encircled. Here we are approaching Kherson. That famous stele. We thank you! We thank you! Thank you! Wave the flag! Thank you! Thank you for... Bowing low! At the entrance to Kherson, our defenders are taking pics with a watermelon. Watermelon is a symbol of Kherson region. Glory to Ukraine, guys! Glory to heroes! Our home land, our Kherson. Kherson patrol police is already Everything will be fine. You know, back then there was a flash mob, everyone was trying to take pictures at the entrance to Kherson Do you have a photo? Yes, by the way, the supreme commander-in-chief Yes, yes, on the stele. ...on this stele Thank you. Thank you for letting me hold the symbol. Here is the legendary stele. And here there are still traces It is written that the stele was by Saldo who was the mayor who later became the head The sign shows how everything was intertwined The mayor of the city turned out A year has passed. I clearly see changes. There was a sign here, right here. Here. There was a memorial sign here installed by Saldo when he was the mayor. Traitor. It has been taken away. What do we see now? We see fresh flowers. It's even somehow different It is our own home land again. It's just that the access to Kherson Now it takes only an hour to get from but back in 2022, it took 8 long months of hard fighting The enemy retreated, leaving behind mined fields, and piles of burnt iron. Still, the result is there, Thank you! Thank you! It's an incredible feeling. Elation, happiness, joy. And we are entering Kherson. 256 days of occupation are behind. Coming up in the next part of the film. Roger that! Russian used this water crossing Get them the hell out of here! They are sitting in their holes like rats. We can't believe it! Yesterday we Now we are just like targets. Yes, it is dangerous. You have to just.... run away here. Ready? Stay as low as you can! First one, go! Stop, stop, stop! Get down, everybody! Get down! Get down as low as you can! Mount up and let's get outta here!