Most Luxurious Overnight Sleeper Train in Japan, &quot;Train Suite Shikishima&quot; Good morning! Today I'm at Tokyo Ueno Station This train is very popular and operates only a few train throughout the year! This two-day trip is extremely expensive! Passing through the ticket gate... This is the Train Suite Shikishima The train staff will load all the luggage you've brought with you This is the observation car which you can see the beautiful scenery from these windows. The name &quot;Train Suite Shikishima&quot; is displayed on the information board The departure time is 9:15 A.M. The train conductor greeted me as I arrived at the train platform As you may have noticed, this is an exclusive train platform for &quot;Shikishima&quot; which is very impressive This is the corridor inside the train... Opening the door... In this trip I will be staying in this Suite Room for 2 days It's very spacious for a train Each room has its own shower and toilet The rooms are so luxurious that it's hard to believe I'm on a train Here is a bag of amenities with the Shikishima logo Inside this box, you will find a toothbrush, shower cap, body soap, and all the other amenities! According to the information here, the towels and other amenities will be changed every time after using them The bathroom also has a window, but it's usually best to keep it closed when using the bathroom The train conductor greeted us as we started to depart As soon as the train departed, many staff members were waved at us Thank you for your kindness! This train will depart from platform 13 at Ueno station and will return here after two days of travel This is the view from the window of my room The train runs at this slow speed for most of the trip to ensure a comfortable ride This room also has adjustable lighting This panel has a number from 1 to 4, with 1 being the brightest and 4 being the darkest There is also a refrigerator with grape juice, water, and tea, all of which you can drink as much as you want It is replenished every time when the room is cleaned This decoration on the wall is probably made by the world-class metalworking technology of Tsubame City in Japan Since this train attracts a lot of attention, as you can hear, it runs playing the music whistle... This music whistle is another unique feature of the Shikishima This is the stylish key to my room Locking the door... We just passed by an train and our train was running at a slower speed. This is for to improve the quality of the ride! Car 9, which where my room is located, is 20 meters / 65 feet long and has 3 rooms Room 901... Room 902... This means that only six people use up an entire train car which is extremely extravagant Since this is an overnight sleeper train, the room marked 9A here is for the staff members The staff member rooms are located at the end of the car, where the ride tends to be uncomfortable Next to Car 9 is Car 10, the front train car The front cars is designed as an Observation Car to enjoy beautiful scenery You move through this red passageway to get to the observation car You can see the person sitting next to me now, he is the train driver The view from the observation car is like this, The man in the front is the train driver The floor in this train car is raised It's time for lunch, so I'm heading for the dining car This is the dining car. When I came to the dining car, dishes were already prepared You can drink as much as you want, including the most expensive alcoholic drinks and other drinks! This time I had a bottle of Chinese alcohol and a bottle of Tokyo's premium alcoholic drink! Here is my lunch From left to right: chicken, jellyfish and scallops! Today's lunch is apparently, extravagant Chinese food Its very nice to eat while watching the beautiful scenery from the window! The mountain we see is Mt. Haruna with a height of 1400m The scenery around here is very nice to see This one is a very expensive and healthy soup with abalone that any Japanese person would enjoy! The main dish is scallop fritters! The train will reach Mizukami station shortly and stop for a few minutes... The train has started to depart... There are so many tourists and train fans at the station, taking pictures of Shikishima with their cameras You can see how popular this train is! This is the lounge car As you can see, the lounge car has a very stylish atmosphere In the lounge car, you can eat and drink as much as you like, and it's all included in the ticket price! I really love this unique and beautiful design... In this area, there are rice paddies of &quot;Koshihikari&quot; rice, which is a very famous and expensive rice in Japan And now we are passing the famous Nakasato station, a station close to an ski resort! On the right is the ski resort without snow yet One of the special features of the scenery here is this display of an blue old train car that was manufactured just after the end of World War II During the winter, this train becomes a facility where skiers can take a rest while skiing That station is &quot;GALA-Yuzawa&quot;, a Bullet Train station that is only available in winter, which is used for the ski resort that we passed by This is the area that produces the most rice and now is the time of harvest, so rice is lying on the ground The beautiful scenery of the rice fields seen from this observation car. Its a type of scenery that can only be enjoyed on Shikishima! Back in the lounge, I ordered a drink! Every time you order a drink, you will be offered a fine hand towel like this one The menu is very extensive, including soft drinks and cocktails In addition to the previous drink I also ordered this strawberry cocktail and it tastes quite delicious! Here's the inside of the train driver's seat! The right gauge show we are traveling at a speed of 60km/h The train is equipped with a machine that automatically maintains 60km/h speed because the train is most comfortable at around this speed According to the train driver the train will stop at Niitsu station soon This train takes about half a day to cross Eastern Japan and stops at Niitsu Station for a while! Now let's get off the train... All of the other passengers get off at once and enjoy sightseeing Niitsu together In this station there is an exclusive entrance for the Shikishima train which is a very nice thing to have! From here we'll take a bus for a tour of the city! This bus is equipped with comfortable footrests. The station staff, conductor and other staff waved us off as the bus departed! According to the bus tour guide, it will take about 40 minutes to visit a Japanese garden called the former Saito family's villa It looks like we'll get there quickly since we'll be taking the highway We're now on the highway. It started raining right after I got on the bus. We are now crossing the Bandai Bridge, a famous landmark and symbol of Niigata Prefecture! I'll show you some photos of the inside It was a ordinary beautiful garden with Japanese culture... I'm back at the station after a day of sightseeing... Current time 5:30 p.m. and it's evening time! I've come to the dining car for dinner ... The train has just departed! The theme for today's dinner is something like French food combined with Japanese style! This is an unusually tender and tasty octopus! I also had some expensive olive oil poured... Here is a grilled abalone! It is a kind of high-class shellfish This sparkling water is not artificial, but its natural sparkling water! This is &quot;Nodoguro&quot;, a premium quality fish from the Sea of Japan, and this time it was cooked! It is a very tasty and fatty fish! I got a super thin knife. With this sharp knife, we cut this meat and this green wasabi (Japanese horseradish), a spicy garnish! It tastes great with &quot;wasabi&quot; on top of the meat like this! After that, I had some dessert and tea! When I returned from dinner, my bed was ready! The bed sheets are very comfortable to touch! The clothes on the corner is a Japanese style pajama Now I'm going to sleep in this comfortable bed! Goodnight... Good morning! It's 9:00 A.M. I'm at the observation car, drinking this Japanese tea... If you look out the window towards the front, you can see the long other 10-cars entering a curve I also went to the dining car And soon we will arrive at Shinonoi station Shinonoi Station is a pretty large station in this region Leaving the station and getting on the bus... This is the bus customized exclusively for the Shikishima Train When zoom in, you can see the Shikishima Train logo on front The seats of the bus are all customized with a white luxurious design I got to sit in a nice seat! I can enjoy the scenery through this large window From here, we will take the bus for an hour or so to our destination. And here is the wine factory we're visiting! I had breakfast here. After breakfast, we visited the vineyards which are basic ingredients of wine! After that, I got taste some of the wine, which many of the tour participants were waiting for The wines were so delicious, as they are award-winning wines The wine prices ranged from $300 to $900, which was crazy expensive! After the tour of the wine factory, we're headed back to the station Now I'm back at the station Walking to the observation car... There were a lot of visitors outside again I'm back in my room I'm going to open all of the windows and enjoy the scenery for a while Enjoying the view while sitting on the bed like this is one of the best parts of this trip! I'm going to take a shower for a quick refreshment... The shower has a lamp so you can see how much water you have left As long as you use the shower in a normal way, I don't think you will run out of water The water pressure is also quite strong, so it's very comfortable After taking a shower, I'm back to the lounge to enjoy the scenery In this area, the scenery outside is very interesting since we pass through the forest at high speed, you can fully enjoy the beauty of Shikishima! They also made me some non-alcoholic cocktails which are quite tasty What a surprise! There is also a fireplace inside the train It looks real, but it's actually an art object! I've never seen such a realistic object before! It's great to go back to the room and lie down and simply relax I wish I could stay here forever The view from the train conductor's seat is also very interesting since the train is running at a very high speed There are grape fields and peach orchards along the route As you have seen, you can enjoy the scenery from many different places on this train! Passing through a tunnel... We had for lunch a very sweet corn soup with tomato sorbet on top This is a dish of fried vegetables and caviar with a lot of expensive ingredients And I also was served a mushroom soup, a taste of autumn This is Japanese Wagyu! For dessert, we were given sweets that looks like lemons but actually are not. The quality of sweets is very impressive We will now go through a tunnel that goes under Tokyo and we'll arrive at Tokyo Ueno station in about 2 hours There are few buildings in this area, so we can see the skyscrapers from Tokyo That is the tallest building in Japan, Tokyo Sky Tree According to the train conductor, we traveled 867 km / 540 miles in two days! We will arrive at Tokyo Ueno Station in about 5 miuntes... The train platform of Ueno station is now in sight We're almost back where we started Locking the door before getting off the train... It was a really fun trip! There was a short party at the end, so I had some snacks and some tea There were also some Limited Edition Shikishima merch on sale They also sell food such as curry Thanks for watching! Make sure to check out my other videos...