Zhou Cishen, CEO of Zhou Group, checked into the hotel with his girlfriend and it was reported that the mysterious girlfriend was pregnant The two are about to meet their parents Ruan Xingwan Zhou Cishen Mrs. Boss Today is your third wedding anniversary with your wife. Is it appropriate to go back so late for a necklace ? What the wife needs most is companionship. It's not an expensive gift . Let 's take your car. Okay, I promise to deliver it to you before twelve o'clock . You are back. Happy third wedding anniversary to us. Cheers. My third anniversary gift to you. What do you mean? Zhou Cishen, let's get divorced. You play. What tricks do I want to play? I wish you a happy marriage. Happy third wedding anniversary and happy divorce to you. Episode 2. Why is that man wanting a divorce ? This is the first time I have seen such an arrogant mistress. She knew you existed and yet she broke into the house and forced you to leave . It's amazing to have children. It 's not a star . I am That's not what I meant . Our family's Xiaowan is pregnant. Zhou Cishen, you must be responsible for marrying her. Cishen 's Zhou family's blood cannot be left outside. I promise my son-in-law. Look at the gift of tens of thousands. He is really a man. So what are you going to do next? I want to participate in the new design competition Ji Huai has returned to China. If he meets you, you are always like this. You hide everything and don't say anything. If you meet, you will meet. Anyway, we are all divorced. By then, let's find another ten or eight . The dead man got remarried in the third episode and I was thinking about this competition in the third episode The judge is Ji Huaijian. I heard that he is famous in France. Huaijian didn't expect to see you again. Hello , I want to sign up for the design competition. If we win, we will go to France together. The gold medal work of this cutting-edge design competition is Dream , let us have Please champion RUAN (Ruan Xingwan) Who are you? You don't have eyesight when you walk. It's because you came to your door when someone was pregnant. You still insist on it and make me annoying. How did you know? Of course, my cousin told me about the pregnancy. So what? Maybe one day? You fell down the stairs, right? An An, I warn you not to tell my cousin that a fake pregnancy is a fake pregnancy. Even if you tell him, he will only Do you believe what I say ? But what nonsense are you talking about ? I still want to thank you. It was you who gave me the evidence of his cheating so that I could get him out of the house. Do you need me to introduce you to a lawyer? No, don't you want me to get out of the house now ? There is no such condition in the divorce agreement. If I sign it, you won't lose more than you gain . Since the conditions are so generous , you Just hurry up and sign. I don't have as much time as you when we meet at the Civil Affairs Bureau. Is it so difficult to sign ? Brother, she tried so hard to marry into our family and was reluctant to divorce. Who told you that I wanted a divorce ? Don't you hate her very much? I heard that a little star named Shu is pregnant, so I want to help you divorce her. Next time, you will know the consequences . Ruan Xingwan, you also want to be a designer and participate in the competition. Sorry, Miss Ruan was selected for this competition. I, the Zhou family, have told me to clear out this lady's information . You are the Ruan Xingwan, right? If I were to do it again If you try harder, maybe we won't be in this situation today. I don't blame you . Something happened to my family. Besides, it 's not my fault. Exchanging money is also an unreasonable request. It is normal to be rejected . Do you still want to design? Shengguang may have a place to enter the competition. Make a sketch this week and I can help you recommend a theme. It is called First Love. Well, then I will. Try Mr. Zhou , I saw Madam at the Galaxy Restaurant. I am pregnant. Let's get a divorce. Hello Madam , I am Lin Nanli. I'm free when the marriage consultation is agreed upon. Mr. Zhou is going on a business trip in the evening. I want to ask you where you put that blue and white striped shirt. We are getting divorced. What does where his shirt put have to do with me? Ruan Xingwan, give it to me in half an hour. Come back , I really owe you. Madam , why didn't you wear the shirt I gave you? Which one do you think is fine? I forgot to put it in. Mr. Zhou, you didn't like this dress very much before. Why do you want to wear it all of a sudden ? Didn't you buy it especially for me? It's not very decent to keep something bought by your ex-wife . We are still husband and wife, so let's go through the divorce procedures tomorrow . Sorry, I 'm not free tomorrow. I have to go to Belgium on a business trip. Why is it you ? Then who do you think you are, madam? I just saw her get in the car angrily and leave. You said she was so good, why did she want a divorce ? Could it be that Madam deliberately found you an awkward girl? When you are angry, you usually won't take the initiative to speak out, so you will resort to divorce, breakup, etc. A way to get your attention is actually just a little coaxing, such as the chocolates of Belgian Pierre Macrini. It's very good. There are also macarons, which are all Madam's favorite. Who said she was going to Belgium ? I didn't say I wanted to give her chocolates . If the weather is bad, the plane cannot take off. Then let's talk about cooperation tomorrow. Remember Madam. I was a designer before and there was no problem. Regarding the design competition, the initial warm-up this time was quite perfect. So for our next cooperation, Shengguang is recruiting designers recently. I have a good candidate here. Since it was recommended by Mr. Zhou, after all, it is The best choice is to just set the information like this. Go back to Lin Nan to get the stars and wait for your divorce to be successful. But you must treat me to a big dinner. Boss , let me sort out the wife's information and send it over. Did I tell her to give it to Zhou Anan ? This is not appropriate, right? Miss An An's success is not good enough. There is more than enough and I was with my wife before Also, I'm listening to you when I'm going to celebrate the festival. Why did I see your ex-husband was stupid? Stop talking nonsense. If you have something to say, please tell me. Don't tell me any more about your boss 's trip to Belgium. I saw him in Shengguang. Didn't Ruan Jun come to Zhou's again? There's trouble. I'm warning you not to touch me. Ah, I have practiced . Why do you want to give it a try? Ah , I am the father-in-law of your president. He can leave as soon as he says it. How can it be so easy ? Zhou Cishen, come out to me. The boss said, you can deal with it how you want. We will fully cooperate. You are me. The person who wants to divorce him has nothing to do with him, and his money has nothing to do with me. If you keep arguing with me, you won't get a penny. Why does it have nothing to do with you ? What do you mean? He slept with my daughter and I don't want to pay him. How can it be that easy? Zhou Cishen, come out quickly and drag me out and take me away. What are you talking about? Ruan Xingwan, what are you saying? Let me go. Go back and tell Zhou Cishen . If you encounter this kind of situation again , don't come and tell me. Just send me away . Understand , she just said this. Madam, I want to make a clean break with you, girl, girl. What's wrong with you, my husband? Every day z ai , you are awake, you are pregnant, do you know that you are four weeks pregnant and the fetal phase is unstable ? You'd better go for a check-up later. What did you say? You had a miscarriage before, but you need to pay attention to this pregnancy . Maybe you won't be able to give birth. It's impossible . Shanshan , what's wrong with you ? Shanshan, am I pregnant ? Right? You're going to get divorced now and you're still pregnant. If I tell him now that I'm pregnant, he'll divorce me immediately. Oh no, he's such an inhumane person. You don't know that before, he always felt that I was lying to him now. What if I use the same method ? Yeah, I really don't understand that you were the one who insisted on marrying him , but now you're getting divorced, shouldn't he be happy? And why is it the other way around now? You agreed not to pay even a dime and he's still dragging your time. Why? Maybe I tortured him for three years. Maybe he is Are you trying to embarrass me? Don't be too sad. I'm going to get you some paper. If you missed your appointment , are you still free tomorrow? What did she do today ? She was beaten. Yes , Madam, her face was swollen. There 's such a big piece. Take him with me. Let go . What are you going to do ? Son-in-law, my good son-in-law. You hit her today . Which hand did you hit her with ? Zhou Cishen and Xiaowan are my daughters. I can scold her if I want to. Hit the boss, he talks too badly. Give him 500,000 to get him to leave Ruan Xing. Wanwan is only five hundred thousand words deep. Don't think that I don't know that you have a mistress. I am sent by Xiaowan to keep an eye on you. As long as we have evidence of your cheating , you are a mistress. Your whole family is a mistress. It's really hard for a dog to spit out. Ivory is fine. How much do you want? Two million. Okay. You asked Ruan Xingwan to come over, okay ? You wait for Zhou Zongzong. Did you ask your father to come? I didn't . I thought you cared about me to some extent . Did you file for divorce because you think I cheated on you ? When someone is pregnant, I will make room for her. I will not let anyone carry my child, right? I am pregnant. How many times do you have to use this excuse ? Well, you thought I would be deceived by you. The second time you found out, then I I have to change my tactics. I will meet with the Civil Affairs Bureau at 9:30 tomorrow morning . Do you want to take this chocolate back to Madam and feed it to the dog ? That's not okay. The dog can't eat chocolate. Have you two thought clearly? Are you sure? If there is no problem, you can sign here. Ruan Xingwan, I will give it to you. One chance you got pregnant Whether it is true or not, I have shown you the pregnancy test report. Three years ago, you said the same thing and I believed it. But the result is that you should believe in your own contraceptive measures. You did a good job. Zhou Cishen, happy divorce, divorce certificate boss. Are you going back to Xinghu Mansion? I seem to have been tricked by her again. How can you say that madam, that madam doesn't want anything? You don't understand that when she needed money , she tried every means to marry me and when she didn't need me, she tried her best to divorce me . I was like a fool and was deceived by her again and again. How about we take revenge once and go back and pay first? Hold on to your wife's career and then remarry her. After she tastes some sweetness, divorce her directly. You're right. Oh no, no. You're kidding. It's not a loss-making deal. Besides, it's easy to get yourself involved. She thinks divorce is enough. It's okay to be able to understand both sides It's true that we can't settle the matter. Don't we owe you two million? Mr. Zhou, how can a pursuer turn into a debt collector and drive your car? Boss , have you really thought about this series? It's called First Love . If the lady misunderstands, the misunderstanding can only mean that she wants to There are too many. Brother Huaijian's press conference is about to begin. What should we do? When did the old man recently intend to marry the Ji family ? Long time no see, Miss Lin. The press conference is about to begin. Let's go in. The first love press conference begins now. We invite our today's protagonist, Mrs. Ruan . As we all know, the first love series is the ingenuity of our Miss Ruan after three years. So what does first love look like in Miss Ruan's heart ? First love is like a pot of brewed plum wine. When you first taste it, you feel the bitter aftertaste is sour and sweet. After many years, it tastes different again. It's like the memory of first love, which is hidden in ignorance . In my heart, it is the most beautiful moment when she is showing me She loves me and is her first love. She is so confident. You doubt me. Miss Ruan, when was your first love in college ? Since Miss Ruan misses her so much, she must be a very good person. Why is it her? It's disgusting. She married my brother and she still misses her first love. what are you talking about Brother Huai Jian, she is the woman who faked a marriage and forced my brother to marry her. She looked innocent but was actually very scheming and deceived my brother into getting better. Thank you Ms. Ruan. Today's press conference has come to an end. Please also invite all guests to be in order. Leave the scene. Thank you An An . Why are you in such a hurry? Is n't that woman Ruan Xinxingwan even divorced my brother and she still comes to pester him ? Let it go, Mr. Zhou , so that I can sue you for sexual harassment. Who was your first love and who are you and who am I? Our current relationship is not suitable for discussing this. Topic Ruan Xingwan Xingxingzong I'm looking for you, Xingwan. I haven't seen you for a long time. Your press conference today was quite successful. Congratulations to you. Ruan Xingwan, my brother is still in there. Are you ashamed to seduce men here ? Zhou Anan, if you can't learn to speak well, I don't mind teaching you. Your Ruan Xingwan, you dare to hit me, Zhou Anan, it's enough. Brother Huai Jian, you are still protecting her. How long have you known her? Do you know who she is? I have known her for a long time. I don't need you to tell me what she is like. Master Ji, tell me what Ruan Xingwan is like, brother. Ruan Xingwan beat me. Ruan Xingwan apologized to An An. You have been on a business trip for two months and you are four months pregnant . Zhou Anan said in her report that she is not pregnant. She deserves this slap. Why should I send you to the hospital? No matter what you do, I will support you. Eat normally . Get some rest and take a walk, I know Thank you, Doctor Xingxing, why did you decide to keep this child again? When I saw the little dot on the screen, I seemed to see the child from three years ago returning to me. If you keep this child, Zhou Cishen is over there. How can I explain that he won't let me give birth to this child? Then don't tell him that you will remarry later and let that dog man's child call other men daddy to make him mad . I went to the hospital today and saw that Miss Shu . It's a pity that I didn't get pregnant. It would have been nice if the child was here. I went to the hospital to see her. The wife has not given birth to a woman for three years. It can be seen that the boy really hates her. The young master knows your thoughts and will definitely not give birth to the child. I think there is nothing I can do about it . The matter of An An and the Ji family should be put on the agenda. The young master should not agree. No matter what, let him do what he shouldn't I spit out the shares I took. It seems that the old boss wants to join forces with the Ji family. Mr. Zhou, did you hear me? I threw away the necklace I ordered in Paris. Isn't it your third anniversary gift to your wife? Okay, do we still want to buy the first love series ? How big is the first love? Is it childish to talk about first love when you are already a mature person? It looks like there is no need to go to Shengguang. After all, it is just a small jewelry line. Is this how I teach you to inspect the business? New business naturally has to be done by yourself. This is the job of Ms. Zhou Anan who you introduced to our company. The position is the most open she can Seeing the night scene, Mr. Sheng, we are here this time for Shengguang's design department. I heard that you have a new designer named Ruan Xingwan . She is the chief designer of our company. She was the winner of the emerging talent competition three years ago . Your ex's sister-in-law is so talented and beautiful. He is a person who knows how to use our stars. How about you just leave it alone and I will do it. It will be fine . There are some fragments for jewelry and floral fabrics. The winner of the design competition is not heavy. Is it Mr. Zhou who is moving it in the company ? It's just a box and there are colleagues helping me, unlike a certain person Some capitalists will just sit back and watch. Can you speak properly? Why didn't I speak properly? I will speak for anyone who gives me money. Didn't I tell you what you want ? I want half of your net worth. Did you enter Shengguang for the design competition? I can help you. You rejected me because you wanted to see me. Are you happy struggling like an ant ? Who rejected you? I just don't want some people to work as coolies in Shengguang . Ruan Xingwan , I'll give you one last chance to remarry me. Sorry, I'm disgusting . You're so good, Shanshan , let's go to the hospital. Didn't I say that pregnant women should have a good rest? How could I do that? Do you still want the child like this ? Thank you doctor, we will pay attention to it. Sorry for the trouble. It's really not Zhou Cishen. That bastard, no matter if it is him or not , I forget it. I have to give him two punches next time we meet. That Ruan ah sugar daddy also forgets it. I heard that the work designed by a mistress is called First Love. It's so disgusting. After she won the award three years ago, she pushed her first wife into the position with a full belly . I heard that she was even sold at Twilight Club. Go check where the rumors came from. Then you are embarrassing me, boss. These are all the things my wife married back then. Mr. Sheng told me about the trouble your affair caused when my wife wanted to stay I exchanged the study funds into cash but you ruthlessly rejected me. I ask you, what would you do if you were cut off by the Zhou family ? Of course I want to take revenge and go back. I can also have a knife by the way. Of course, Madam is definitely not this kind of person. Otherwise, why wouldn't there be any money when we got divorced ? Otherwise , this woman might have said she wanted half of my net worth before, but she didn't say a single word of truth. That's really contradictory. Then let's check and let me tell you. The response to our first love is very good . We should take advantage of this popularity and step up the design of other styles. Oh, something happened, boss Someone has spread a rumor on the Internet and it has been trending. First Love is refunding a large amount of money . Don't worry . Mr. Sheng has already dealt with the public opinion of the boss's wife. First Love's sales have plummeted . How did Shengguang respond? The thing happened very suddenly . How did Shengguang respond? It's also the most important thing right now. Love means that Madam's identity information has been leaked. You see, I have divorced her anyway , and it will have no impact on the Zhou family. That's what I say . But if someone finds out the previous relationship between Madam and you , then you see, tell me. What do you think ? What I'm thinking is, let's talk to Sheng Isn't there cooperation with Guang ? If we can lend a helping hand to help them overcome this difficulty , Shengguang will definitely owe us a big favor . Then find a public relations team to come over. After all, we are also people in the same boat. No problem. The public relations team will definitely do it. The lady must be pretty I don't know that it was you, the boss, who spread the rumors about me some time ago . I am here to explain. I have never been involved in anyone's marriage. Then why did you suddenly disappear three years ago ? I am married, but I'm sorry about the information about my ex-husband. I have no way of revealing whether you gave up your dream for profit when you hurriedly got married and refused to go to Paris for further study after winning the championship. Dad , let him go. Have you thought clearly about the money? I will find a way. If I can't do it, I will promise you to go to Twilight. I have the right to remain silent about my private life but If someone still maliciously spreads rumors, Shengguang and I will be held accountable according to law. Unexpectedly, Zhou's ace public relations will help us clarify the law. We heard that Mr. Zhou's sister came to the company to work on a project. Mr. Zhou is paving the way for her. How about Boss Shengguang? Shengguang held a press conference . Our public relations team cooperated on various platforms to make clarifications. Oh, this Shengguang is not reliable. It would be bad if this lady, a weak woman, hides somewhere and secretly cries. Why are you so anxious ? Thanks. What's your idea? What should we do next ? It's not easy The hired navy is just letting her go. Ruan Xingwan, that woman who was pushing her belly to force her to get married, forget it now. Otherwise, let's find a few people to calm down. Finally , the hired navy is leaving her alone. Who is there? I just wanted to talk to her. You can't say hello There is really no chance. Ruan Xingwan, why are you trying to do something behind your back? Hire a troll to spread rumors and arrange refunds. I have wronged you for something . If Ji Huai finds out, how dare you ? You'd better not mess with me. You know I have. If you are able to come to your door to force a marriage, you will know how to deal with it. You and I will do whatever it takes. You are so awesome, Ms. Ruan. Do you need me to give you an award? You don't have to go out. Why did you block me? Why did I not know that Miss Ruan is so cruel? Since we are already divorced, why do you still keep your contact information ? Do n't you Did you block me too? It's just a matter of time to get married. If you don't want to get married, I can give you a chance. Thank you. I don't need Mr. Zhou. We are already divorced. We can't just say goodbye. We are both happy. You can't divorce in three words. That's all you do. Do you think so, Mr. Zhou? If nothing happens, I'll leave first . You can't touch Zhou An'an. Do you know who is behind her? Why did she provoke me first ? It's not what you think. She doesn't have the brains to design you, right? I'm the one with evidence, Ruan Xingwan. Woman, what should we do next? The navy we finally hired will just leave her alone. Otherwise, if we find a few people to prove the evidence, what will President Zhou do with him? Is he going to kill someone, silence him, destroy the evidence , or send Zhou Anan out of the country as if nothing happened? Will I explain it to you ? I will explain it to myself, Mr. Zhou. Someone broke the news that you and Mrs. Zhou have divorced. Can you tell me the reason? My wife and I love each other very much. The divorce is all false. Ms. Ruan, you said you are divorced. So, Mr. Zhou ? Is your ex-husband? Mr. Zhou and I may have trusted each other and loved each other . I was infatuated with him and had no regrets . But that was all in the past. We divorced three months ago. Mr. Zhou feeds his wife, that Mr. Zhou is drunk. Do you still have hangover medicine at home? Fushi You can find her by yourself in the kitchen. There isn't one in the kitchen. Then call her Aunt Zhang. Don't forget that you also have a two million IOU with me. Hello, Miss Ruan gave you something. I can't see you. Sincerity, I'm sorry. I'm a pretty girl. It's a bit unsafe to go out at night. You'd better be considerate. Is this your attitude towards creditors? I have some money now. Can I pay you back part of the remaining installments first? I don't accept installments. If you pay Mr. Zhou in one lump sum , what do you want to do? Give me the money. You can rest assured that I will definitely return the money to you. I will give you a month. My man , Xingxing, will repay part of the money. What if the child is found out when he is older ? He won't care . I know , but Stars, do you care about this? Customized projects are all high-end customers . Why should I leave them to her ? Ruan is the winner of the design competition three years ago . She is fully capable of doing it. She is An An and she is impulsive. Miss Ruan , please bear with me, Sister Zhiyi. You just have a good temper If it hadn't been for her, you would have married my brother long ago. An'an, do n't say that. You haven't even figured out your horoscope yet. Miss Lin, what style of jewelry do you want to customize ? It's Uncle Lin's birthday in three days. I hope to see the finished product within two days. It should be fine. Ms. Zhou is too anxious, isn't it? After the customer pays us , we must provide corresponding services. Mr. Sheng , my words in the design department don't count now, do they? Of course Mr. Zhou has already explained it, so please work hard. I understand. She probably didn't find out about my last hot search . Next time , An An should do things more secretly. It's so hard even though she's pregnant. There's something wrong with An An in those two days . Who could do it in the past two days? Being favored by Mr. Zhou , of course she has a special fear. Star, what's wrong with you? Fortunately, it's just low blood sugar and she fainted. What if something really happened? No next time. Well, he seems to have something to do with you , so I wo n't disturb you for now. You guys chat at night. I know what you want to say. The day I won the award, I found out that my dad owed a million in loan sharks. What happened after that was just like what Zhou Anan said. Then why didn't you tell me? Can you help me pay back the money? Huai see you have no reason to do this. We obviously almost got together. I'm glad that we weren't together, so we kept so many beautiful memories. Those things can be paid back with money, but they will happen more often. I'm tired of you not trusting me. I won't do this to you. I trust you, but those things are in the past. Then give me another chance. Can your parents accept a divorce? Are you a woman with a child? Does Zhou Cishen know about your pregnancy ? Boss, has anyone contacted me recently? No. Recently, Shengguang has been promoting the First Love series of products. Madam must be very busy. Did I ask her? Isn't this Madam's favorite bag? I see that Shengguang's business has been good recently. How about we prepare some gifts to congratulate the editor, videographer, and designer? You can arrange it, Mr. Sheng, in order to celebrate this launch. The press conference was a complete success. These are all the thoughts of our President Zhou. Don't worry. Miss Zhou has a strong working ability . We are all very optimistic about her. What does this have to do with Miss An An ? President Zhou does not attach great importance to the cooperation between Miss Zhou and our Shengguang. What ? Mr. Zhou has always been optimistic about Miss Ruan. Does your whole company think so? Yes, I must clarify with her in person where Miss Ruan is . Miss Ruan has taken sick leave for two days and now she seems to be in the hospital. Why didn't you tell me earlier how you became a leader? Everything Mr. Zhou did was for Miss Ruan . When you have time, go and clarify Xingxing . What are you doing? It's a cure-all for all diseases. Look, this is a gift given by Zhou to celebrate. I brought it to you. Zhou, this was specially given to me by Cishen. It was given by Zhou's partner. Cishen returned to China this time. Will you come back to stay? Mr. Zhou has already flown to Anseong. Are those miscellaneous gifts he used to celebrate the limited edition items also a gift? Throw them away. I don't want stars. This is a seven-digit package. Boss, be careful. I rely on limited editions. Boss Bao, look at Ji Huai and Ruan Xingwan later. When did we meet in college? Madam's first love seems to have been in college. Madam and Mr. Ji were a couple on campus. They made an appointment to participate in a design competition and then went abroad together. If Madam hadn't encountered some problems at home, she would have been there by now . If you become a senior executive in that company, don't you want to go? It's such a pity to be a paparazzi . You haven't asked me about it. It seems that the salary I paid you is still too much. No, no, no. Let's go back to the company. The car is over there. How is the boss's investigation? He found out that person, Ruan Jun, died before. The people who owed a lot of money from gambling chased him to the design competition site . I force the lady to pay back the money. If she can't pay, I will sell her to the Twilight Club. Please help me . She must have been very helpless back then. Yes, Madam, I wanted to exchange the quota application for cash, Mr. Sheng. I told you , but what did you say? People who give up their dreams for profit do not It was worthy of funding. Later, her father sold her to the Twilight Club. Enough arrangements were made. Well, the best person in this Shengguang Design Competition can receive Zhou's special support. Well, the boss , the old man called An An and Huai Jian's wedding. It's scheduled for next month . Have a good night's sleep at Zhou's seaside hotel What do you think? I don't agree. Although An An is your sister, Mr. Zhou , your parents have the final say in this matter of marriage. Mr. Zhou, are you too lenient ? If An An wants to marry Ji Huaijian, all the shares in his name must be returned to the Zhou family, Zhou Cishen, you. Don't go too far. This is a family matter for you. It's inconvenient for you to get involved first. Farewell, Uncle Ji , Auntie , Cousin, I don't want anything else. I'm going to be with Brother Huai Jian. Shen An'an is your sister. You have to think about her. Why did she change her name and join the Zhou family? We all know it. Tomorrow Cishen , don't forget who you are, you'll be mad to death I 'm not young anymore. Why don't you spend more time with Zhou's to take care of yourself? Boss Nizi, would you like to ask Madam again where you keep the headache medicine ? No, please . Feed Shanshan, feed Xingxing. Where are you? I'm still in Shengguang. It's so late. Star, I told you that Li Yang is back. Oh, it's true. What kind of surprises are there for the anniversary? It almost scared me to death. I don't want to do such boring surprises after my resignation. Oh, by the way, Xingxing, please find a hotel to stay for one night tonight. I will reimburse you and compensate you another day. Then I'm not polite. I love you so much, An Xile. You also know that my first love caused public controversy and massive refunds , but I am not so unkind. After ten years, you can only be a designer and cannot participate in catwalks other than Shengguang. This overbearing clause does not comply with the regulations, right? Ruan Miss Shengguang paid me two million for you We need to consider reality and not be like you young people whose minds are full of fantasy bubbles. Due to contractual restrictions, the ownership of your work in the new designer competition can only be Shengguang . I accept it. Wait, this is what you want. What do you mean by the entries? With my ability, I can definitely win the championship. Sheng Guang will not devote energy and time to anything other than Sheng Guang. Ruan, you are not qualified to refuse. Okay, I know tomorrow is the designer competition. If you have nothing to do, go out and prepare, boss. This model suffers Are you injured ? Have you contacted the alternative model ? The alternative model will arrive in another hour , and there is still twenty minutes before the next show. I think her image is quite good, but I can't let her go . No, I haven't walked through the show . Yeah, it's too late. Ruan, it 'll be great if you can make up for it . I believe you can do it. Come on , put on makeup for her. Is that okay if you're still pregnant? Cishen Zhou's anniversary is coming soon. I need a batch of suitable prizes to draw. Understand Cishen, I I heard you got divorced . What does it have to do with you? You don't have to be so distant from me . If it hadn't been for that accident back then, we would be married now. Fortunately, we don't have a limited budget. Buy in moderation. Is she peeking at me? She seems to be glaring at you. If your eyes are not good, go look at the stars. Can you still do it? Hold on, don't hold on , hold on. There's something wrong with the model. It 's currently being solved. Why don't you feel well ? I'll call the doctor. I'm fine. Mr. Lin Nanzhou , I'm really fine. When the meeting is over, I'll pay back the money I owe you. Where did you get the money from? I earn it on my own. You are so capable, why did you force me to marry you? What happened at the beginning was that I was sorry for you, and I will return the money to you. If you have any compensation, I will do my best. You are so good. What's going on? We didn't give it to the design competition before. Is the quota for the most outstanding person to be supported? Logically speaking, it should be announced after the selection results, but he won't let him say anything. There is a problem with his reputation. I am afraid that the level committee judge Ruan will not be able to accept your kindness. There is a problem with her work . What do you mean by Ruan Xiao ? Sister, that is a designer with unparalleled elegance and grace. How could the design be so ugly? Cancel the competition first. The first contestant in the preliminary round of this designer competition is something Ruan designed. Is there an inside story for the first place? Is there a judge there? Hurry up and get off the stage, judge Xingwan . What on earth is going on ? That work is not of your level. I am here. Unfortunately , Lin Nan, I am not satisfied with the results of this competition. Additional funds will be used to hold it again at a different date. Mr. Zhou, Mrs. Zhou, means that this time the work is not the best. rematch you designed It's the best result. You talk so much. Next time you come to be the host of the competition, Zhou Cishen. I haven't paid you back yet, so you are doing this today to pay back the money . Xingwan , you know the sponsorship of the emerging designer competition three years ago. Who is Fang? Isn't it Sheng Guang? The one who had the right to speak back then was Mr. Zhou. The person who rejected your application was Zhou Cishen. This opportunity is reserved for those who truly have design dreams, rather than treating this competition as a business opportunity. Those who made profits from it all happened three years ago, not to mention He doesn't owe me a rejection and I'm normal . If it weren't for him, we wouldn't have separated and met each other. It's because I cherish the relationship between us. Please don't change it. Okay , give me a hug and I'll go out first. I have paid you back the money and we are now two It's clear. I don't want love. Do you want me to ask you something? Why did you divorce me? You don't have to try to find excuses. I already know it. Zhou Cishen, I didn't mean to hide it from you. It's just because Ji Huai is back, so you want to go with him. He made peace again, right ? Do you think the Ji family would allow a divorced woman to come in? Does a divorced woman deserve to be looked down upon? Why is a divorced man so shameless, eating from the bowl and looking at the pot? Say it again, I'm just raising As for divorce, it's not what you thought. Did you divorce me because you loved me so much that you insisted on having a child with me ? Then you should just think that I have never forgotten Ji Huai when we met . I finally admitted Ruan Xingwan. Do you think I will make it happen? You stay and fly together In a dream, if you forcefully kiss someone when you don't agree with me, you probably like me. You didn't wake up, didn't you? You went to a lot of trouble to embarrass me . Why did you do this ? Do you think I'm embarrassing you ? I don't want you to go through any trouble when I pay you back. Is it interesting to go to Teng ? Is your brain confused? I sent the public relations team to Sheng Guang. I spent 20 million to re-organize the design competition for you. Just for you, the 2 million. Your public relations is for Zhou Anan. Don't confuse the situation. Can you eat more? Walnuts are good for your brain. How much money do you have? How do you want me to repay you? I can give you a chance to remarry me . Why ? Although I was once criticized by a capitalist with eyes on my head for not having dreams , I have experienced three years of failed marriage and I know what I want. I want to realize my own dream by myself. If you don't let me go, then I won't do design and will never appear in front of you. You would rather not be a designer than remarry me. I don't want Ji Zhunjian's money to be paid in installments . I'd like to send an IOU to Mr. Zhou Shengguang . It's been arranged. If you like Shengguang so much, I will give you permission to resign now. How about saying goodbye to Shengguang? You are so handsome. Xiaojiu is natural. Mr. Gun Sheng. This is the newly signed designer of our company. Wen Qian has long admired the famous Mr. Sheng. About customization I also want to get involved in this area. I have some experience abroad and better understand the preferences of ladies and ladies. Great . Please go out for a while. Wen Qian. Well , Mr. Zhou has something to deal with with you. Mr. Zhou is here this time. The number of places supported by Shengguang Preliminary Competition Although the competition has been re-organized , we already have a suitable candidate in Zhou's mind. Mr. Zhou has chosen the Academy. We are very happy. However, I thank Mr. Zhou for your kindness. However, my performance is average and should be left to better people. Now that I know that I If your ability is average, why don't you prepare to improve it? Mr. Zhou, if you don't have a suitable candidate, take it back. I don't think everyone will have any objections. Mr. Sheng thinks so too, doesn't it? No, no, we are actually very satisfied. It seems that Shengguang only has certain employees. I don't appreciate it at all. I thank Mr. Zhou again for your kindness. Xingwan , I have something to ask you. It would be nice to meet Ji Huai, but that's not the case. Mr. Ji is gentle and considerate . If you become the young mistress of the Ji family, you won't get what you want. You will also want it. I can't call the young lady of Ji's family Let's talk to boss Zhou Anan about the UP248 matter. I heard the teacher talk about the ten-year contract. What on earth do you think? This matter has nothing to do with you . Aren't we friends? Do you know that the most important thing for a designer is these ten years? ten Years have passed and you have nothing . I know, but isn't it something that can't be helped? I'll help you think of a way . I'll help you think of a way. I'll help you think of a way. Miss An An , please respect yourself and get out of here . Zhou An'an, you are this week. An An, what are you doing ? Brother Jian, you didn't have this attitude toward me before you returned to China. It's all because of her, you, Zhou Anan, that's enough. Please respect yourself. You are An An's fiance. I hope you treat An An more. Mr. Zhou, I'm not engaged to Zhou An'an. It will happen sooner or later . Ji. The marriage at home came unexpectedly Mr. Yi Ji, please respect yourself, Mr. Zhou. If you really like Xingwan, don't force her. Otherwise, you will only push her further and further away. There is no need for you to interfere in the affairs between us. Lin Nan , well, you will like a fake pregnancy to come to your door. A woman who is forced into marriage? A boss? A relationship? This kind of thing makes no sense. There is a saying. I don't know what is going on . Hello, the user you dialed is currently on the call. Please dial Lin Nan's number later . Ruan Xingwan, don't forget to pay for this month's debt. Yundu Hotel is good. Hello, these are 3 in total. 280 yuan, please scan the QR code or cash . I don't need the stroller. Can you help me wrap these? Okay, we haven't seen each other for a long time. Let's have some fun today. Shanshan, Li Yang. Is he with you now? He works overtime. What's wrong ? Hello, hello. Come to the hotel for reservations and they won't close the hotel . Come to the hotel and the hotel won't close. Who will complete it in two days ? The project document was handed over to Assistant Lin Mr. Zhou, what a coincidence that you came to my hotel and met me by chance . I'm not here to find you. So who are you looking for ? Who am I looking for ? What does it have to do with you ? I'm looking for my friend. Mr. Zhou, what is this ? This Shanshan is with her. My boyfriend is currently preparing for pregnancy and I bought her something that bothered me. Leave now. As soon as that woman calls, leave . Do you have me in your heart? Okay, baby, it's not like you don't know that I still have to rely on her to help me smoothen the relationship at work. Let 's have a kiss. Oh, why are you okay? I didn't expect you to still be there. Such a hobby, hair, hair, hair Where did you get your hair ? This, this, this, this, it hurts me so much. You seem to have gained weight when you get up. Roll over Shanshan, feed the stars. Have you noticed that Li Yang is mysterious recently? Yes, I can't find anyone recently . But I suspect he is going to propose to me. By the way, recently I We are all looking at the wedding dress. You must come and be my bridesmaid. Why is she eating this ? This is usually what you eat when you are preparing for pregnancy. It can prevent fetal malformations. Call the Ji family. It is time to prepare for our wedding. Mr. Zhou. Are you crazy, old man? Waiting for the opportunity to give you the right to speak? Zhou Anan's identity is there. If you want to divide the equity, you have to go through the shareholders first. Li Yang said that he called some friends and said that I would not go. Oh , I guess he is ten I'm probably going to propose to me. You have to give me a hand. Shut up, go away. Li Yang, this is your girlfriend. I'm not Miss Yang. People say that Li Yang's girlfriend is very beautiful. Rumors are unbelievable. Hello, I'm Li Yang's colleague. I think I saw Ji Huai over there just now. I'll go and get him. He brought us here to play together. This is my boss. Classmate Ji Huai saw the young master of the Ji family come and sit down and let's play together. Don't you know what to say? Didn't you record the video? Show it to her . Didn't you record the video? Show it to her. Give me the Xingxing video. Shanshan, we should go home. Get out of my way Shanshan, it's not your imagination Shanshan is like that. You listen to my explanation. I don't have to watch any videos like this . Either you say it now or find the mistress and confront her. I didn't . She framed me. Ruan Xingwan just wanted to drive me away . Look at you , don't listen to her nonsense, don't do this What about Xingxing ? Either get out of here now or don't even think about your job. Get out of here. Ji Huai, see you. Send Xingxing back first . I want to go back and throw away all his things. Huai Jian, you don't have to send me away. I'll go back by myself, madam . Call me Mrs. Zhou Cishen, Miss Ruan, Mr. Zhou Ban is waiting for Mr. Zhou in the car. I know you have always gone your own way, but are you going too far ? Are you here to question me? Questioning is out of the question, but Mr. Zhou, you are interfering with other people's emotions without knowing anything about them. Is the problem going too far? As the person involved in the betrayal, she has the right to know everything . Then you can use a tactful method instead of exposing her face to face. You don't know how sad she will be and she will be too timid to tell her. That's a good thing. Is she sad because of this thing? It only shows her inner heart Too fragile. Mr. Zhou is cold-blooded and arbitrary . He will not be sad because of such a trivial matter. Our boss, Ms. Lin, is discussing some more private matters with his wife. Aren't they already divorced? Who knows that love is a very wonderful thing ? Throw this rubbish out for me . Why? Aren't you the ones that you specially bought from your partners? Yes, just throw it away. If the lady sees that she is sad , she might marry Mr. Ji in anger . Wait, Mr. Zhou, you are still considerate of this. I want my wife to know that she is happy to remarry you. Don't you know that I'm divorced? Okay, Miss Ruan, okay , call her and ask her to take these things away . I have to say a few words to you . There is no such thing as chasing someone if you really like it She should know that women like gentle and considerate men. You should let her feel your gushing love. If you are blind, go to the ophthalmologist, okay? But if you really don't like Miss Ruan, then don't Doing so much for her Don't give people chocolates and jewelry. Don't give people any quota. I just don't want to see her plan to marry into the Ji family. That 's all . You're so stubborn. It's weird that you can get someone . Ji. Huai Jian and Zhou An'an are about to get engaged . Mr. Zhou, you misunderstood that Huai Jian and I have nothing to do with each other . I feel like a fool and you lied to me. Come on, let's continue the engagement tomorrow. I need a female companion for the dinner. I won't go. If you go, you don't have to pay back. Really, but who said that he doesn't want the money for the meeting? Did I say that? You are such a noble person and forgetful. Please take your things away. Remember, you dress like this at tomorrow's engagement party to make the guests feel that the Zhou family is mistreating you. I've gained weight recently and I can't even put on the clothes upstairs . Is it okay for you to leave me and eat like this ? What can I do if I want to come? I need to go to the toilet. What's wrong? An'an , I saw Ruan Xing late . My cousin obviously hated her in the past . Now I don't know why he always warns me not to mess with her. Maybe she is pregnant. This happened to me before. Ah, when I saw Brother Huaijian accompanying her for her prenatal check-up, maybe it was because she was pregnant. I knew that she must be trying to use the baby to force Brother Huaijian to marry her. I won't let her get far away. What should I do if someone falls into the water ? Sister Zhiyi, I didn't push her on purpose. I just wanted to drive her away. My brother will definitely kill me if he knows it. Don't worry, no one will see Ruan Xingwan. Xingwan wake up, are you a family member of the patient, not a patient? Her stomach has been very uncomfortable recently. What are her symptoms? What are her specific symptoms: nausea and vomiting? The patient is pregnant 5 Morning sickness is a normal reaction of pregnancy. Don't be too nervous. What are you talking about? The patient is pregnant5 I'm pregnant . Morning sickness is a normal reaction to pregnancy. Don't you always ask me what I want? I'm pregnant. I want half of your property. Shanshan is preparing for pregnancy. Isn't the one I bought her cute? Ruan Xingwan hid it well. Ah, this is half of my famous property. It's yours as soon as you sign. Mr. Zhou, what does this mean now? It's not the right time yet, then you are so generous to pay such a high price for a child who has not yet been born. I will come to you at ten o'clock tomorrow morning. It was you who said you would give me a child. I want to keep him. The boss already has a third. The shareholders of the company were bought out by the old man , and the Ji family was planning to join the Zhou family to change the situation. The important thing is that the old man is arranging a blind date for you. You can't keep his Zhou Cishen. Zhou is not your one-spoken wife. No matter what, I don't agree with Ji's entry into the board of directors. What's going on over there in your hospital ? They say that my wife is not emotionally stable . I think if Madam doesn't want the child, she can't keep you and send him far away. Okay, you can do it. You brat has never listened to my words. Madam , Nizi, please eat some. It's good for the child. I won't eat. I'm afraid he'll poison him to death . Mr. Zhou asked me to tell you that if you don't eat, the operation will be done. It's going to be tonight, so you can also help me convey to him my wish for him to have no descendants. Why bother? Calm down, you 're British. There is a problem at work. Can you arrange a business trip to the UK tomorrow morning ? What should I do if you leave now, old man ? Isn't it convenient for her to do things when I'm not around ? Then it 's ten o'clock in the morning or afternoon. Don't let others find out about her pregnancy, especially her pregnancy. The Zhou family understood that there was a call from Chengnan that the wife was missing . Zhou Cishen, you don't understand that as a mother, I have no reason to give up my child , so I promise that I will take this child and disappear forever, and I will never let his existence disturb you. Hello, the user you dialed has turned off the phone. Lin Nan, um, check. Find out where she is and what happened to her secret protection . Huai Jian , please help me. Please help me. After leaving Nancheng, I will make arrangements for you. Don't worry, uncle. You can make the decision for me. Brother Huaijian left the engagement party in public . Isn't this a slap in our faces? What happened to Huaijian ? Nothing happened. How is it possible? You have seen that person many times in private. When the woman An An speaks and acts, she brings out evidence. The evidence is the child in her belly. I don't have to pursue it. As long as Ruan Xingwan tells me what's wrong with Ruan Xingwan, it's okay. Now that everything has been explained clearly, let's all talk to each other about it. But now it's just an engagement. The wedding can be canceled at any time. Mr. Ji , I hope today's incident won't happen. The second time it happened, Mr. Zhou said this because of Zhou Anan Or is it someone else? She likes to call me cousin. Unexpectedly, Mr. Zhou is not a good husband but a good brother. I know how to do it. It's a pity that Mr. Zhou doesn't have the chance . Lin Nan, where is Ruan Xingwan? Please wait a moment, Madam, for her flight to Switzerland at four o'clock in the afternoon . I sent you here because you had a safe trip . Something happened to the star. The prison said that he was imprisoned for home invasion a month ago . A few days ago , he teamed up with a few other criminals to escape and accidentally caused a fire. This led to death. I remember that he was not the one when he was a child. After his mother passed away, he became like this, so don't be too I'm so sad. What are you doing ? Back then , Yuan Jun mortgaged his things and begged me to act with him in a play. Now, after death, the debt is cancelled. I am the one who returned the property to its original owner. Miss Ruan, have you ever thought that you are not Ruan Jun's biological child at all? Daughter , what are you talking about? See for yourself. The money has been repaid by a man named Zhou. I don't want to take advantage of you. Just accept this thing . You are not a human being . It's your blessing . Didn't you go abroad? Why are you back ? Mr. Zhou, this is my freedom. Come with me . Let's go for a walk. Do you want to go, kid ? So do you two. Are you here to participate in the blessing event? You can get a beautiful gift by participating in the mini game . Let's take a photo. Forget it. No, no , do n't go. Don't be shy. Such a beautiful couple , please write a sign. What about mine? Who do you want to write? We are both divorced. It's not appropriate to write one. Thank you. Let's get married. I've tortured him for three years. Maybe he 's deliberately trying to embarrass me. Why are you here? Go to the hospital. No need. I'll be fine if I rest for a while. I really want to abort him. Your child will still let you attract bees and butterflies, no matter what method you use, you will It 's better if I don't go like this . It's better if I don't go like this. If I go to the hospital when I'm sick , just try to build some moral integrity. I go and say that I don't care, but it's just that I'm lucky enough to get the chance to be the boss of Zhou Dynasty . Hey, what did Miss Lin design for you before ? Is the necklace with you? I forgot to pick it up. I have time to go over and pick it up. I'm very sorry. Miss Lin may have lost the necklace. I will bear all the losses . It doesn't matter. Just treat me as a friend of Miss Wen. You, my husband, are not responsible at all. Responsibility: This kind of weather can make her catch a cold. It's not a woman's fault . Being able to give birth to a child for you is a sign of love for you . As a husband, you don't know how to care about doctors. Don't take it to heart. My giving birth to this child has nothing to do with you. Your giving birth to my child has nothing to do with me. You draw me and it has nothing to do with me. I am just practicing drawing. How can you still be reasonable ? Who can be right? You are reasonable. Everything you say is right. What others say is all about scheming and tricks. I say one sentence and you agree with ten. Then stop talking to me. It's all my fault. That's my fault. Okay? Don't push too far. Mr. Zhou, you better not do this again. It's easy for others to misunderstand me. I like you. Sometimes liking doesn't mean anything . I got the answer you want . Don't you want to say something ? Didn't you say it doesn't mean anything ? I have nothing else to say. Ruan Xingwan suggests that you go to the brain department later. These are only played by children over three years old. Mr. Zhou, since you also like this child, can you please not tell the Zhou family about this kind of thing ? Just buy whatever you need for later use. I don't see your sincerity . Then how do you want to move back to Xinghu Mansion ? Why did you call me out so politely ? Zhou Cishen's birthday is coming. I want to give him a gift . Star, are you crazy? Shouldn't you? Could it be that she wants to remarry him ? Don't be stupid. A bitch like Zhou Cishen won't have real feelings. He just covets your beauty. You know it. By the way, I moved to live with you recently. The house before that was Li Yang. I plan to sell my things and you can move there yourself. It's good to live there . Then where can you live ? Rent a house and move back to Xinghu Mansion. Amitabha Amitabha Star. If you get back together with Mr. Zhou, for the sake of our friendship over so many years, you must never tell me about scolding him. He begs you, do you two like business models or casual models? What's the difference? Different styles are suitable for different occasions. And each of our watches is numbered and unique . Will each model be engraved? Yes , if you want to find people to buy by number Can it be done? Madam, we only have customized models . If you have needs, you can go to the corresponding brand factory store and ask. Then wrap this for me. Thank you. Y=21,000 stars. What else did you think of ? Thank you . Please wait. The Charity Dinner Tomorrow You will go, right? It depends on your mood. I know your situation in the Zhou family . So tell me about my situation in the Zhou family. You are now too powerful and are deeply feared by your father. Zhou Anan and Ji's marriage divides power . But if you and I can help you get married, but you are not my best choice. It's because your ex-wife is pregnant, right? There is no airtight wall in this world in Cishen. Your father doesn't know about her pregnancy, right? She got pregnant after my divorce. Why should I be the one to take advantage of her ? It's not me either. Threatening you, you can consider a charity dinner , it's me The greatest sincerity, boss. Madam's physical condition should not be suitable to attend tomorrow's charity dinner . Otherwise, I will find you a dance partner. Isn't it readily available? Miss Lin, if I marry her, won't I save thirty years of hard work? You are recently I have a bad stomach . How do you know you should eat soft rice ? Where is Ruan Xingwan? Madam said she was busy with something. Oh, what? I'm telling you about Lin Zhiyi . Do you really want to go with her? If Madam finds out, you will be completely screwed by Madam. Do you know that the Zhou family keeps a close eye on everyone? As long as you don't get discovered, it's okay. Just do it. Madam, Miss Ruan, Madam, you're finally back. I'll tell you, this young couple is fighting at the end of the bed. Let's go. The dream of leaving my mother must have something to do with this pocket watch , but I can't remember it. No matter how much, it's gone. Who said I want to eat it? It's up to you whether to eat it or not . Then eat it quickly or you'll be cold in a while. Mr. Zhou, I want to beg you. Zhou Anan will also go to the charity dinner tomorrow. I 'm afraid that the charity dinner will be crowded and I can't completely avoid the Zhou family . Then I'll ask Teacher Sheng to send the finished product there. Have you thought about remarriage? Can I ask what the reason for remarriage is? Do you think I can let you run around carrying my child ? Do you agree that I can keep the child, give birth to it, and then send him away? Can't it be discovered by the Zhou family ? Even if I give birth to the child, I can't even see it. Yes, Zhou Cishen. Although I have guessed it a long time ago , I still want to ask you about this child. Don't you have any expectations? I always only prepare for the worst. Without expectations, there is no hope. But isn't this child also a child? It's you who insisted on giving birth to it. Since you want to give birth to it, you have to bear the consequences. Okay, Ruan Xingwan, I'm yours. Your husband is not your enemy. Put away your hostility and correct your ex-husband Zhou Cishen. That bastard is trying to be in two different boats. It turns out that this is why you don't let me. The reason for coming to the dinner. I forgot to pick up the necklace that Ms. Ruan customized at your place last time. It's right at the door of the charity dinner. You can come and pick it up yourself . Ms. Lin is so beautiful today. Today is the first time that my fiance and I appear in public. Of course, we have to wear it. It's more formal. Since the things have been delivered , I'll leave first. Ruan Xingwan , what are you doing here? An Anhuai, brother, why are you helping her? Ruan Xingwan, you vixen, I , Zhou Anan , Miss Ruan, there is something wrong with your auction item , why don't you come with us to take a look ? Isn't this the necklace Miss Lin customized at my place ? Is this necklace the one who was kept ? The designer is quite beautiful. I quickly removed this thing. I found out yesterday that the finished product for Ms. Lin was lost. I don't know. Why does it appear here? I don't think it's Ms. Ruan's work. The charity gala turned out like this and she hired this kind of designer. I've already removed her auction, so I removed her work without explaining what it means to her. Did something like this happen to our reputation? Ji, as the organizer, should bear the main responsibility. Mr. Zhou had to intervene and pass by. His father, Xingwan, was responsible for this matter . The innocent matter is settled like this. Uncle Ji, this is Miss Ruan , the designer of Shengguang. Miss Ruan, this is Chairman Ji. Episode 67 , this is my fiance Zhou Cishen. Uncle Ji, we are going to get married soon. I'm too lazy to do this. Father, there are surveillance cameras everywhere. If someone changes the exhibits, there will be traces. Go and adjust the surveillance screen. Father, someone is entering. The finished necklaces were exchanged before the surveillance scope. However, the surveillance still captured some pictures. Although the specific person who exchanged them was not found out , it was enough to prove it. Xingwan is unjustly accused. After knowing this, even if I give it to you, I didn't expect that Miss Ruan and Huai Jian still have such a good relationship. You are also very good at acting , so you have to do the whole thing, otherwise how can others believe it? After the play was over, I withdrew and resigned . I wasn't completely acting. When will we get married ? Why did you let me out ? Why should you lock me up? Sister Zhiyi, brother Huai Jian, An Anhuai saw that he locked you up, and he didn't want to let you go. When you see anything sad, I know it must be to be with Ruan Xingwan. Miss Ruan has Cishen by her side. You are no match for her . My uncle and uncle will not help me. Uncle Zhou is really looking forward to the birth of the child, but as long as Tell his wife , Aunt Zhang, can you help me get my luggage upstairs? Where are you going? Mr. Zhou, you and Miss Lin are getting married. It's not appropriate for me to live here, Aunt Zhang. Madam, my waist has been bad for the past two days and I can't lift heavy things. She said so many things. You believed what I said. You turned a deaf ear and did whatever you wanted. You and Miss Lin are getting married, so don't have an unclear relationship with your ex-wife. It's unfair to her. Believe her, don't you deny it? Mr. Zhou, let me remind you again that your fiancee is Lin Zhiyi. You have never left Lin Zhiyi. Why are you jealous? I just feel that you The behavior of such a person is very shameful. Ruan Xingwan, you have to understand that the world is not either black or white. After all, isn't this your excuse for trying to tread two boats? You haven't remarried me, so where can you stand? No matter what the two boats are , thank you for taking care of me these days . I will find a way on my own in the future without bothering you. Do you think I am discussing with you ? What do you want? Zhou Cishen, please let me go. You are illegally detaining me. If I fall, neither you nor the child will be fine. Dad knows. I heard that you and Zhou Cishen attended a charity dinner. Well, the relationship between the Zhou family is complicated . Why do you need to make this trip? What about Muddy Waters? Dad, my marriage to Zhou Cishen will be of no harm to Mr. Lin. Besides, I like him . Dad, the weather is cold. You should pay attention to your health . I know everything is fine . Dad supports me. You, Zhou Cishen's ex-wife, should teach her a lesson. Dad supports you. She is exactly like you. Madam, the painting is so lifelike. Hey, how did it go when I asked you to check it yesterday ? That person's name is Duan Rong, a loan shark. He used to be Madam. My father's creditors found him, and there seems to be another group of people who are also looking for him. He had already run away when we arrived, but don't worry, I have already I ordered him to go down and get a reward of one million if he can be found. The reward of one million will be deducted from your salary . Hey, no, I didn't expect you to be Zhou Cishen's wife. What are you doing here ? Chief Editor Sheng asked me to come. I'm sorry. If you don't accept it, you can leave. Ruan Xingwan, why are you just luckier than me? I don't know when Zhou Cishen will abandon you. Wen Qian , you just refuse to admit you. It's impossible for me to be better than me. I studied abroad for three years and I have countless Zhou resources in China. You, a country bumpkin who stayed in China , can't be better than me. You study abroad and look down on domestic designers at the same time and refuse to admit your own. If you are not capable, what you get without working is not yours after all. Shut up. What are you going to do to our young lady, young lady ? Come with us. Take her to the police station . Mr. Zhou's wife was taken away by Housekeeper Zhou . Call Lin Zhiyi and meet at Zhou's house. Hello Mr. Zhou, Ms. Lin. When will your wedding be held? It 's about two months. Finally , it's okay, that's it for today. Please let us continue the interview. Oh, if you don't want to do an interview and put on a show, you have to do a full set. Ms. Lin , I advise you not to think too much about it. Do you need my help to rescue Miss Ruan from the Zhou family ? I know I messed up Mr. Zhou's plan, but I still want to ask you. What's wrong ? He kicked me here. Did you feel it here ? I remember I told you that you If you want to give birth to this child, you will have to bear the corresponding consequences. An An, you are too impulsive. Find out what happened three years ago. Stop and tell me that cousin Ruan Xingwan is pregnant. It was not me who told you. I swear, Zhou An'an , I will find out what you did. I'll go up first when I'm full. If Ci Shen investigates what happened three years ago, I will find out everything about Ruan Xingwan . As long as you die, cousin. You don't know anything. Zhou An'an, are you crazy? It's not me. I didn't want to harm you. Do you still want to push me down the stairs like three years ago ? He is my cousin. He is about to get married. How could he still have your belly? The child here is my cousin Miss Ruan. I just seemed to see We arrived at An'an. I was worried that you wouldn't be used to eating at Zhou's house, so I brought you some food. Thank you An'an. That kid may be impulsive, but his nature is not bad. I know that if Miss Ruan wants to leave Zhou's house, I can help you keep an eye on Ruan Xingwan. Over there, let's find the right time to snatch the person out. Our boss, aren't you going to get married? You can do it. Come on. Miss, aren't you getting married today? He won't marry me. As long as I keep him, I will win. Miss Ruan Xingwan, agree over there. She can stay but I don't want to Seeing her child affects the relationship between me and Ci Shen. I know that all of Mr.'s cars have been tampered with. Ruan Xingwan will never leave Nancheng alive. Ms. Ruan, we are here to help you. I hope you don't want any tricks . I don't have it. How can I play tricks with such a big belly ? I just want to go to the toilet. What's your attitude? I'm already like this. Can I run? I won't go back with you. Go back quickly . I'm chasing people over there. Madam, the boss can't catch up. The lady was taken away, right? Ji Huai shouldn't worry, Mr. Ji is quite friendly to his wife. Do you think the Lin family is just as clueless as you? It 's wrong to ask people to prepare anti-shock buffer devices . Why can't they stop ? No, boss, this car must be damaged. Someone tampered with me, I immediately contacted the hospital Cishen. Today is our wedding day. You just leave like this. I have already done what I promised you. If something happens to her, you know the consequences. Well, what does it mean that Huai Jian sent me to Shanshan's house ? It seems that I can't go . The brakes are broken. Save my child. Trust me, boss. Don't worry, my wife will be fine. This child is very important to Ruan Xingwan. We must save it and it will be fine. 214 Where is the child? You don't want to die. Zhou Cishen. My child is gone without me. If you don't believe me, you lied to me . Let me go. Let me go. Calm down. Zhou Cishen. You promised me. You made me believe in you. You let me give birth to the child . You made me believe you. Where is my child? I'm sorry about the child. Sad that you finally got what you wanted Shouldn't you be happy? You've wanted to get rid of my child since the day I got pregnant. Now that the child is gone, you finally don't have to worry about that child taking your place again , right? Get out, I'm sorry, take a good rest. The situation at that time was very dangerous. Your husband had no chance. Without hesitation, I chose the two people you love. There will be children in the future . He is not my husband . By the way, how is the man who came in with me? His injury is not serious and he will be discharged from the hospital in a few days. Hey, Mr. Zhou. Why not Go in, go in, listen to her scolding me. What this lady said is all angry. Who has been here today? Miss Lin and the old man have been here today, but they were not able to go in. I revealed this news to them and let them die. I understand this. The arrangements have been made for Zhou An'an. Miss An'an seems to be preparing to go abroad and catch her. Let me go. Why do you want to lock me up ? I came to you because of an account three years ago. Cousin , you must not believe that Ruan Xingwan faked her name three years ago. Pregnant and married into our family, now it's just In order to find a suitable reason, she framed everything on me. I didn't push her at all. She didn't say anything. I just guessed that she could come to my cousin to force her to get married. Is there anything she could n't do? There is surveillance evidence at the stairs. It is true that if you don't tell the truth, I will call the police. I said that my cousin was the one who encouraged me to do it. She said that you wanted to drive me out of the Zhou family because you liked Ruan Xingwan's child. I was just afraid of my cousin. I didn't mean it. There is no surveillance at all at the stairway, even if there is one An An was lost three years ago. Your worries have now come true. Lin Nan , take her to where she should go. I don't want it. Cousin, I was wrong . Cousin, I was wrong. How is Mr. Ruan awake? But there is nothing wrong with the child. Has it been checked? The seven-month-old child should be able to survive. It is sure that Zhou Cishen deliberately concealed it . I have confirmed that it is indeed not saved. I should not have brought him back in the first place. He has not been raised well after raising him for so many years. The young master slapped the Lin family in the face today or Maybe we can start from this aspect and make an appointment with Lin Zhiyuan. I want to come to the door in person. Ms. Ruan is very happy that I can't go to the hospital to see you. I didn't expect that you have been discharged. Let's find a place to chat. I heard that Miss Ruan I'm sorry that the child is gone and there's nothing It's such a pity that even if you force yourself to stay, there won't be any good results. Miss Ruan is very open-minded . Miss Lin, if you want to see me hysterical, I 'm afraid it might be a miscalculation . If you have anything to say, just say it directly. I know that the marriage between the Zhou family and the Lin family is very important. What do you want to say? Zhou Cishen and I There won't be any more involvement . Will Miss Ruan stay in Nancheng? Why can't it be because I didn't think it through well ? If you need help in the future, just ask. Thank you, Miss Lin, for your kindness. I don't want to have anything to do with the Zhou family in the future. Of course I don't want to read the contact When I saw you, I thought we were friends . Ms. Lin, do you really want to be friends with your husband's ex-wife ? The pocket watch seems to have been in the hands of Ruan Jun's daughter. I know Zhou Heng's side. We agreed to cooperate with him. Most of the Zhou family's influence is in Zhou. It will be difficult for us to cooperate with Cishen in his hands. Isn't it more appropriate to say? Zhiyi, there are some things that I should tell you the truth. Do you know who the people in this photo are? It's dad and uncle. Uncle died twenty years ago to save dad. That's just a public statement , but in fact it's him. He carefully planned to kill me It was he, his wife and your mother who died in an explosion. I recently got news that their daughter seemed to be alive and knew something. And this person was Zhou Cishen's ex-wife, so my father and Zhou Cishen In order to deal with Zhou Ci , Heng Lianhe knew very well that I mean, dad's life is not important. What I'm worried about is you. If you can win Zhou Cishen, that's all. But facts have proven that you can't do this. Zhou Cishen has repeatedly targeted your country for Ruan Xingwan . One day he will Help Ruan Xingwan subvert my Lin family. I know Miss Ruan. Miss Lin, why are you looking for me? Miss Ruan, you don't have to avoid me like this. I have canceled my engagement with Cishen and it has nothing to do with the Zhou family. You don't have to avoid me like this. Miss Lin, you misunderstood. I didn't avoid you on purpose. I just Miss Lin, do you really want to see me ? I'm very grateful to Miss Lin for helping me. No matter if you are sincere or fake, just like Miss Lin refused to give up and Zhou Cishen came to find me. But I won't just forget about the car accident that day. What smell did you smell just now? A kid hit me and I might have gotten it. Order some milk. I was wondering when you would take me here. Now is not the time. Thank you . Don't you think I want to get rid of my own child for power ? I've been looking through it for ten years , but not many people who ordered this watch have found the birthday gift Lin Zhiyuan gave to his wife. How can there be such detailed records? You won't cheat people, right? Hey, if you don't believe it, go and see for yourself. This one is special. The customized one with the star symbol was not given to your mother by your biological father. Lin Zhiyi's biological father is Lin Zhiyuan. It's true and false. The daughter of a wealthy family has a grudge against such a bloody master. Can you give this to me? Oh , take it, take it. It's an old thing for many years. Thank you to the owner of the pocket watch for finding it. Yes , it was Lin Zhiyuan who was in the car that day. It was Lin Zhiyuan and I who did the tampering . My adoptive father hurt me again and again. I didn't expect that after finally finding my biological father, he still wanted to kill me. That doesn't necessarily mean anything. Please tell me what happened three years ago. I already know . Zhou Anan has already told me that it's me. Misunderstood, sorry, sorry Just because you said this, you haven't forgiven me yet. I forgive you. Come on, Lin Zhiyuan's parents died when he was young. Relatives around him looked down upon him , but he had a twin brother named Lin Zhi'an. The two of them relied on imitating each other's features to look like their real brother . Never heard of this Twenty years ago, there were rumors that he missed the inheritance and created an explosion. Lin Zhi'an's house and Lin Zhiyuan's wife all died inside. So you mean my father is Lin Zhi'an. Back then, there were rumors that Lin Zhiyuan was honest and pragmatic. Lin Zhi'an was as intelligent as a demon . So have you ever thought about This Lin Zhi'an is your father. Are you saying that after Mr. Zhou's story is over, I can't compare to you if I see the river and demolish the bridge ? I'm not ready yet. What are you thinking about? I want to tell you my next plan. Director Lin, please tell me about the collapse of the Xishan project. Is it true that the workers were killed and injured ? Regarding the tragic accident in Xishan I, Lin, express my deep sympathy . I have something to say, Chairman Lin . Did you customize a pocket watch twenty years ago ? I don't remember these things. Have you met Chairman Lin's wife? I have met the person above. Xiao Man, who are you in the photo? She is my mother. As we all know , I only have Zhiyi. Can I do a paternity test on my daughter ? Mr. Lin, is Miss Ruan really your daughter? Zhiyuan, didn't you notice that this child looks very much like Xiao Man? She is obviously your and Xiao Man's child, but Zhiyi doesn't look very similar to you. Maybe you were wrong back then , and maybe I will investigate the matter with this Miss Ruan . Chu, but you have to wait a few more days to investigate clearly. I want to live in the Lin family. How can she be here? From today on, Miss Ruan will temporarily live in our Lin family. Long time no see , Miss Lin. Miss Ruan, I don't care what your purpose is. I'm afraid your wish is Miss Ruan is going to lose everything. If it is found out that you and Xiaoman have nothing to do with each other, What does it matter ? I hope you apologize publicly . Okay, if my mother is really Mr. Lin's wife , then Mr. Lin, I hope the liar can apologize to me and leave the Lin family forever. Okay , your room is upstairs. I want to go out for a walk . Dad. She seems to know everything. Don't worry, dad won't let her get away. I 've been fed to the Lin's house, but the Lin's house is more primitive than I imagined. I suspect that Lin Zhiyuan is transferring assets. This is what I have to do. You protect yourself . It's not convenient for me to find you even if you live in the Lin's house. So , you just care about it . Are you drawing a design? Am I preparing for this design competition? Hua Jing this time The result of the work is related to our plan. The theme is confession. What are you worried about ? Don't you receive a lot of confessions? Mr. Zhou, do you receive less confessions? I only want to receive from one person, but she has never confessed to me. Oops. What I am discussing with you now is the theme of this design competition. You don't want A good design work needs a practical object. I can be your practical object. I suddenly had inspiration but you didn't say anything because I can feel that there are many, many things that Mr. Zhou wants to say. What's wrong? Lin Zhiyuan tried to use the secret theory to help Zhou Heng seize the Zhou family . Come out with me. Yes , this is the CEO's wife. No wonder Mr. Zhou has used so many backdoors for her . It's also her skill. Mr. Zhou 's previous investment in Shengguang Group was spread online and used for power for personal gain. It has been on the hot search. Well, I already know this, and I I checked that it was not the old man who did what happened this time. Mr. Lin is indispensable to add fuel to the flames. Although you are in a high position, you are doing things that use power for personal gain . Do you think so too? It's already reached this point. Is there anything else you can say to deserve the trust that the directors have placed in you? How else will Zhou run the business ? If you can't give us an explanation, Mr. Zhou, we will have to re -elect the board of directors . It's too arbitrary to pay tens of millions for a woman. Come on, do you think I have lost the company's interests for Ruan Xingwan ? Lin Nannian Shengguang's first love project has a total investment of 5 million and a net profit of 28 million Shengguang New Design University Sai invested 20 million and made a profit of 100 million . Zhou's shares increased by 6%. Is there anything else you can say? No, I have nothing to say . Director Zhao misappropriated 15 million in public funds a month ago and made a profit of 5 million from private trading positions. Director Zhang took bribes of 5 million multiple times, reduced project returns, and took kickbacks from Director Lin and Director Wang . Aren't you afraid of chilling the hearts of the directors by doing this ? Is it chilling the hearts of all Zhou's employees if you just let it go ? quilt Fired Zhou Cishen, who allowed you to act so nonsense? This matter has been solved. What do you do about your online comments ? Are you going to fire them too? You don't have to worry about those online comments. You can go online to see what those comments have been. After being solved, I publicly sent a lawyer's letter to Zhiyi on the Internet. Ms. Ruan, you are trying to put my Lin family on the fire. I lost my child in a car accident when I left the Zhou family. It was just an accident. All the cars were damaged. Miss Lin, do you still think it was an accident? Miss Ruan, since you have already lived in the Lin family , you are also a member of the Lin family. Why should such a trivial matter cause such a fuss? You have not fulfilled your responsibility . Just take back what belongs to me What you said makes sense. I thought about it for a long time. I decided to transfer 14% of the company 's shares to you. All you have to do is sign it, right ? I 'm sorry . I don't quite understand. I want to take it back and look at it carefully. Just give me my dad's share of the stock after a week Is there something wrong with the transfer letter ? No, even if she gets it, it won't change anything . By the way, I remember you wanted to study in Australia, right? You signed it . I'm not stupid. I was just thinking that there are so many secrets of the Lin family that need to be mastered. Only with the right to speak can we understand the deeper truth . Xin Lin ca n't last long, okay , then I'll listen to your help. How's my secret boss ? He's already in the hospital. He's seriously injured. He 's not awake yet. Have you found anything? He came from an abandoned hut behind Lin's house. There are still many iron tools in the hut that I ran out of . The first step is to judge that it was the Lin family. I remember he said that the answer to the Lin family's safe may be found in the Lin family. No, this is too dangerous. We can't wait for him to wake up. The results of the design competition will be out tomorrow. We must have corresponding evidence. You Don't worry, he won't do anything to me so far. Ruan Xingwan, I know your purpose. You can't get anything. You have already said such things. You can't achieve any threat to me. You might as well think about it and treat yourself as if you are not Miss Lin. Can you still be so proud of your password lock dad when you come back ? The champion of this event is Ruan Xingwan . Ms. Ruan. Now, I would like to invite Mr. Zhou from Zhou's and Chairman Lin from Lin's to come to the stage to give the award speech . Congratulations to you, Xingwan. I am honored to be the guest of honor tonight . Some things have already happened to you. I know clearly that Miss Ruan Xingwan is indeed my biological child My daughter, Xingwan, I'm sorry for causing you and your daughter to suffer so much. In order to make up for the regret, I decided to hand over the entire Lin family to Xingwan. I still have something to ask Chairman Lin . If you have anything to do, go ahead and talk about what I want to ask. Everyone should be very curious. I was only 3 when I got lost. Where did Ms. Lin come from ? Did Mr. Lin want to admit that he was the wrong person? I lost all my relatives in the explosion, and I knew he was adopted by me to comfort my longing for these years . Ms. Lin, what do you think ? Well, since the facts are like this , I have nothing to say. But I have a paternity test here that can prove that Miss Lin is Mr. Lin's biological daughter . But I have a paternity test here that can prove that Miss Lin is Mr. Lin's biological daughter. What is going on here ? Who is Chairman Lin's daughter? Xingwan. If you have anything to say, go home and tell me now. I want to hear your explanation now. Zhiyi is definitely not my biological daughter. So how do you explain that my pocket watch was damaged during the explosion ? Lost it, I said Xingwan, what exactly do you mean ? Miss Ruan, you are not my father's daughter at all , but Lin Zhi'an's daughter, right ? Back then, your father framed my father for inheritance rights , but he himself died in the explosion. You did it for revenge . Let's go back to Lin's house. I heard that Lin Almost everyone can't tell the difference between Dong and Dong's younger brothers. Isn't this too scary? After the explosion, you discovered that you had too many flaws in your role as Lin Zhiyuan , so you let your illegitimate daughter take the place of Xingwan. You have no evidence and are not convincing at all. Can the other things in Chairman Lin's safe prove it? You Lin Nan chased Ruan Xingwan. Do you think you will win this way? Zhou Cishen used to hate you so much that he killed your child. Now you can still be with him again? Don't you feel disconnected when we are together ? Lin Miss, you obviously hate me so much but you still keep being friendly to me . Don't you think it's inappropriate? If you didn't appear, he would be with me, but he only loves you. I can only get a little recognition from him by getting close to you. Miss Lin is obviously you. I look down on him and feel that he is not worthy of your status as a rich young lady . Why do you still ask him to like you? Mr. Zhou Lin Zhiyuan jumped out of the car and died during the pursuit last night. I know that the old man also suffered a stroke and was paralyzed after learning about Lin's news. Okay, let 's hire a caregiver for him. be careful