It is my great joy and privilege to introduce Bill Hwang. Can we please welcome Bill Hwang up here. Please welcome Bill Hwang. The question of who is Bill Hwang is one that everyone seems Here is someone who really and yet he was ranking among But now Bill Hwang and what will likely go down in 2021 as one of the most remarkable Not just because of the rapid rise, but the even faster implosion. He was an outsized influence but almost nobody had ever heard his name and nobody had ever heard Archegos Capital Management. This whole situation to me is like a string of &quot;Are How could that many as to lever up one guy all on the same stocks? It really is every bank for themselves at this point. It was this one family office It was Bill Hwang's personal fortune which he had built into a firm that was pretty sizable in the market. One way to measure this fiasco is by adding up Bill to the $10 billion that In total you've got $30 billion wiped out in the space of a week. Investors on Wall Street but Archegos is almost because of the size of the positions that a single individual accumulated and the speed with which it unraveled. This is one of the most in modern financial history. No individual has lost My entry point to the Archegos Very early on, Goldman emerged as a seller of almost $10 billion of securities, on a Friday, dumping stock onto the market in a way that was exceedingly And any time I see the name Goldman Sachs, I'm always curious. And so I went down the and found out some interesting details about Goldman's relationship and the man behind it, Bill Hwang. It really goes back to when you had this frenzy of There were a bunch of US media conglomerates, and across the board we were Everyone in the market what the heck was going on. Bill Hwang's background is very different from anyone else that you've heard of at the pinnacle of Wall Street. Here is someone who grew up in South Korea. His father was a pastor, he was assigned to a church in Las Vegas, and Bill Hwang and his family when he was about 18 years old in 1982. Within a few months of his arrival, his father passed away. He used to work night And it was on his mother's insistence that he go to college, and subsequently earned a business degree at Carnegie Mellon. Back in the late '80s and early '90s, it wasn't so easy to get to Wall Street if you were an immigrant. He couldn't get a job at Goldman Sachs, he couldn't get a job at Morgan Stanley, yet his dream was to So Bill Hwang ended up taking and he turned out to be a at Hyundai Securities because he caught the We have work. Julian Robertson is the who founded the powerhouse And so Bill Hwang became a Tiger Cub. The term Tiger Cub is used to describe the former employee's of Julian Robertson. Anyone who sort of worked had great success under him and then was able to spin out and start their own hedge fund came to be known as a Tiger Cub. Julian Robertson seeded and that's what gave Tiger Asia its stock. Bill Hwang's hedge fund, Tiger Asia, was a very, very successful firm. At one point, it managed $10 billion. But Tiger Asia crossed the line between aggressive and illegal. In 2012, securities accused the firm of insider trading. Bill Hwang had to plead guilty for wire fraud. He had to shut down Tiger Asia. But after he settled that, and he shut down his hedge fund, he started Archegos. Archegos is what's known It's an investment firm managing in this case, Bill Hwang, but instead of trying to with the taint of a securities violation, he would take the money that he had, something north of $200 and invest his own money, hire his own analysts, do his own work, and make money that way instead of having to And he was incredibly successful. He did a couple of things in his favor. The first was he invested in tech stocks. He rode the decade-long boom in firms like Amazon, LinkedIn, Expedia. Netflix, Facebook, Google. The other thing he did, increasingly, was use borrowed money. On Wall Street, it's called leverage. He had borrowed a lot of money, and that meant his gains were exacerbated. And he then plowed them that by the end of it you had someone who had taken a fortune that started at a little over 200 million and in under seven years had Jesus says, &quot;I'm the bread of life. If you come to me, you Bill Hwang was someone who who was focused on the idea of Your people will be my people, and your God will be my God. He believed that, by he was advancing society on behalf of God. My company does a little bit of our part bringing the fair price Is it important to God? Absolutely. In some ways, he was able for all his wagers, to stick with them and irrespective or not being mindful of the hedges he would He talks about this idea that is burdened by the and having too much money. And he says he doesn't feel it. He says he's not afraid of death or money. He says, &quot;I am just following God's word, and that is truly a He didn't live large. He didn't have a penthouse He didn't have a fancy He lived a relatively modest He drove a Hyundai SUV. This is really a grown up version of someone you will see on This is someone who really would bet on it, and stick with it, and not worry about anything else. There was no complicated God has clearly showed us what money does in a positive way. Here's someone was is who completely believed in and allowed that to not allowing any sort of or even second thought And that proved to be his undoing. On the afternoon of March 22nd, ViacomCBS announced a stock The company wanted to raise $3 billion. Here was a stock Bill Hwang He had a huge outsize position in it. Every time the stock moved up, he would throw more money into it and the stock would keep Instead of helping the stock, the stock sale hurt the stock terribly. The following day, ViacomCBS went down 9%. On the Wednesday, it went down 23%. With the stock declining it forced a margin call. A margin call is a demand for more collateral. If you borrowed so much money that all of a sudden after a stock drops that quickly, the firm will demand more collateral. If Bill Hwang has no money left or refuses to put up any further money, the dealing firm takes over his position. The Wall Street dealers to sell some stock so that He might take some losses. From $20 billion, he might go down to 10 but he would live to fight another day. And Bill Hwang refused. If it was just one bank making the demand, that might have been fine. When all his banks made the same demand, you knew you had a problem, and really that was the beginning Any fortune built on borrowed money is standing on a shaky base. A gust of wind could threaten it. In the case of Bill Hwang, he was facing down a hurricane. Names that he had plowed were moving against him, and he never had any effective hedge. The banks had started to panic, they had loaned him a lot of money, and they were demanding that he needs to post a lot more cash; otherwise, they would have and liquidate his portfolio. He did not have enough and they did have to cut their ties and liquidate his entire portfolio. In the end, Bill Hwang lost at all. But not just that. The banks that had lent him money, they also lost quite the fortune. Think of Archegos as a burning building and its bank lenders as The moment one of those people, one of those banks makes all hell breaks loose. You had someone like Credit Nomura in Japan losing in And yet you had banks like Goldman Sachs, Wells Fargo, Deutsche Bank who seem to have escaped In total, you've got $30 billion wiped out in the space of a week. The last person out of is the one who always In this case, that was Credit Suisse. It was only in the days after that, that we were able to piece and the root cause behind it all. A whale is Wall Street slang for someone who wields outsized influence in financial markets. It's like looking at the ocean and seeing a glass-like surface, but under the surface is this That's what Bill Hwang He was an invisible whale. Almost nobody had ever heard his name and nobody had ever heard And that all goes back to this financial instrument that he used, which was swaps. Now what are swaps? Swaps are a type of derivative that allows you to Instead of your name showing it's the name of the firm you're So it could be Credit Suisse. It could be Goldman Sachs. It could be Deutsche Bank. It's the banks that appear and he was the one in the price of the stock. And that would allow through that process. The people familiar with Archegos, both its accounts and its positions, spoke to us on the condition of anonymity because they weren't &quot;We don't really have a good idea of what Bill Hwang has left. We know he's got a suburban We know he drove a Hyundai. Presumably he's still got that. But we're not aware of that he may have had.&quot; But with so little financial it's very difficult for anybody of what Bill Hwang has The only saving grace, perhaps, is that we really haven't We really haven't seen expose more hedge funds to the problems and see more dominoes falling. However, what is the from what happened to Archegos? So far, the prime brokerage business hadn't been top of mind for regulators, hadn't been top of mind for politicians, but you've had both entities for now demanding answers, for now trying to figure out how stable and sound the system was. You don't want these who have great outsize holdings and stock and no one knows about it. So the same disclosure rules will possibly be the case going Bill Hwang has undoubtedly suffered some reputational damage as a result of the collapse of his firm. And it's hard not to see On the one hand, you've got Bill Hwang, the and on the other, you have this guy who's with enormous amounts of borrowed money. It's so hard to bring into the same person, which is why we keep