(dramatic music) (bomb explodes) - [Narrator] Israel's response in Gaza to the Hamas attacks has led to protests across the with many calling for an end - If you want my money, - [Narrator] The US provides to Israel every year. And since World War II, the US has provided more foreign aid to But today, there are for more scrutiny of that of the Democratic Party, including threats to scuttle Biden's in additional assistance to Israel. - It's changing the nature It was once frowned upon to and now you're seeing more and more that people are doing so, and those calls are - This is a simple - [Narrator] On January 16th, Senator Bernie Sanders introduced to impose conditions on - It simply requests a report on how USA aid is being used. This is a very modest, - Sanders' resolution unless the State Department within 30 days, examining human rights violations in Gaza. - What is going on in Israel significantly with US military aid. So the 2,000 pound bombs of wiping out entire neighborhoods, those are American bombs. - [Narrator] As expected, rejected Senator Sanders' - We can and should continue targeted prosecution of the but passing this resolution In fact, I would say it is - Are we complicit? And the answer obviously is yes, we are. And that's why I brought And I and other members for accountability from Israel. - [Narrator] Even though it represents a historic level of scrutiny for USA to Israel. - Just the fact that to debate this issue publicly really shows that there's a changing tide. Even if it didn't go anywhere and it was overwhelmingly rejected, the fact that senators with this question publicly pressure to do more. - [Speaker] An historic moment for Zion, which is celebrated in of the Jewish Agency for runs the flag of the new - Well, 1948, the United world to recognize Israel. - [Philip Jessup] The the provisional government of the new state of Israel, - But there really wasn't There was a little bit of money, loans to help resettling all And of course, this was still - [Speaker] Many had suffered She, for instance, was evidently some Nazi (indistinct). - Which was an important for the creation of Israel. - [Narrator] In the 1950s and '60s, the US provided the new country But by the early 1970s, US aid became mostly military assistance. (artillery firing) In 1973, two Soviet client launched a coordinated forces in the Sinai and the Golan Heights. Israel ultimately repelled the attacks and regained lost ground, but only after the US made the decision to supply the Israeli military. - [Interviewer] Are you satisfied with the amount of from the United States? - I am very happy with what we are getting and very thankful for that. - In 1973, Israel was two Soviet clients. That created an incentive for the United States and The real pivot came after - [Speaker] Signed at the White House by the leaders of Egypt, After decades of mistrust and warfare, it looks as if American diplomacy a formal peace treaty between - That really created a very different relationship with Israel, a very different American And it was also the 1970s where Israel went from mostly democratic cause, to being a bipartisan national issue. - [Narrator] For decades, US economic aid to Israel helped support But since the rapid expansion of Israel's economy in to Israel began to 21st century. - So there was a shift over where the American assistance to Israel, which had been balanced after the Camp David Agreement and military assistance, became - [Narrator] Part of America's strategy in the Middle East is ensuring a qualitative military This approach involves or more advanced versions It also offsets military with increased weapons packages - What this means is that when the neighbors the United States oftentimes that weapon system to Israel. (artillery fires) - [Narrator] Annual foreign from the US represent about 16% of the Israeli military budget. - So let me share with and Ukraine succeed is vital for America's national security. You know, history has taught us that when terrorists don't when dictators don't pay a they cause more chaos and In Israel, we must make sure to protect their people today and always. - [Narrator] Last year, President Biden requested $14.3 billion in additional assistance to Israel. A $14 billion funding request $10.6 billion for the Pentagon The US military response to the Hamas attack includes ammunition and interceptors to replenish which is the bedrock of - Israel and America are - [Narrator] Historically, US aid packages to Israel have faced little because Israel has long - Peace requires compromise, but we will never ask Israel to compromise its security. Can't do that. - There has been remarkably for aid to Israel, but for we've seen increasing signs, certainly on the Democratic that maybe it needs to be qualified. Maybe it needs to be - [Narrator] Despite the it remains likely that to Israel will pass the Senate. - Israel has to end the threat of Hamas. Hamas is evil. If Hamas is left to its to Israelis everywhere to Israelis on the Gaza... along the Gaza Strip, - We're gonna support our - The US has decided that providing aid to Israel is just a fixture One thing that I have talked to officials about in &quot;Are there gonna be You criticize Israel's actions. So what do you tell them behind the scenes to sort of hold them accountable? Would you withhold military aid?&quot; And the answer I get generally is no. It's not even a question. - [Narrator] For his part, to continue scrutinizing US provides to Israel. - Do not count me in to to a right-wing extremist It's a start, but I that there are many more who are really upset about what is going on in Gaza right now. (uptempo music)