My dream is to be international star. And to be able to sing. All my life. I was in Germany, and after breakfast, just like that, I did not see this coming. I was very, very, very scared. When you hear the crowd. Celine! And then you panic, so more you panic, more you spasm. My adrenaline, my heartbeat, my pressure. What am I gonna do? Go. Despite the risk of losing her voice, Celine takes the stage. He's the only one that I will listen to without questioning anything, my eyes closed. Anymore She's working too much. They say that Renee was pushing her too hard. Rene Angelil, the man who has managed her, molded her, and married her. He's my everything, so I don't care what people say, even if it's like, &quot;Oh, she loves him too much,&quot; or &quot;She depends on him too much.&quot; Since she was 12 years old, Celine has owed everything to Rene. I'm sorry, sir, my manager is not here now. Ah Rene often hid the truth to protect Celine's image. But one day, that all changed. The lie is too heavy now. Celine's devotion to Rene started when she was just a kid. I felt that music was going to be my life even before being able to sing. So I said to my mother, &quot;Please, I want to sing. Help me. This is what I wanna do.&quot; And she wrote my first song. Meanwhile, Rene had just lost his most important client, because her boyfriend had got in the way. Rene was about to quit his career, but Celine's family made sure that didn't happen. One day I was in my office, depressed, and all of a sudden I get this tape with a red ribbon over it, and it's written, &quot;12 years old.&quot; My brother called him, and he said, &quot;Mr. Angelil, we know that you didn't listen to the tape because you would've called right away.&quot; I listened to it and I was amazed. And he said to me, &quot;You sing like you are in your living room and you sing for your brothers and sisters. You just sing with your heart.&quot; He came to the house. My mother told us he's going to take care of Celine's career. But for Celine, it meant much more. I was not a good-looking girl. I had teeth problem, I was extremely skinny. Aside from singing, Celine had nothing going for her. You make friends if you're cool, if you're pretty, if you're good at school. You make friends if you're tough. I wasn't tough, I wasn't pretty, I wasn't certainly cool, and I wasn't good at school. So when Rene showed interest in Celine, she went all in. Under his guidance, the talented teenager has turned into a mega industry. Celine Dion. At 14, she won the Yamaha Song Fest in Tokyo. At 16, she sang for the Pope. Four years later, she won Eurovision, the world's biggest song contest. Fueled by Rene's desire to succeed, Celine's passion became her duty. The dream started but it was so fast. Everything was like, fast, fast, fast, fast. Rumors were circulating that Rene was working Celine too hard. It was her determination that would inspire the 38 year-old Angelil to mortgage his home and create his own record label just for her. But one day, singing became #2 in Celine's heart. I was in love with him for the way that he treated everyone around me, including my whole family, myself. The day that I fell in love, I was holding on to him and not to my singing career anymore. But Rene was concerned for how their relationship would affect their success. Finally, after five years of hiding, they revealed their secret. I always have new news. Ah, this is big news. And this is a big ring, too. Oh, let me see. You got engaged, look at that. This is, I am very proud of this. I'm just very much in love, and I was engaged recently with my manager, Rene. But as Rene had predicted, the revelation led to backlash against him and Celine. There are people who say that you totally control, totally dominate the relationship professionally and personally. No. People that know us, they know exactly what's happening. With time, the controversy died down as the focus shifted to how happy Celine and Rene were together. But there was a bigger secret that they were keeping from everyone. No one in the audience realizes what's going on. My voice was skidding all over the place. It's the truth, I'm spasming. So I started to do what I could. I squeezed my vocal cords more. Was that the right thing to do? I don't know. What do you want me to do? The show must go on. Even after Rene died of cancer, Celine kept the lie going. I have a tonsillitis, a sinus infection. Sometimes I would point my microphone towards the audience and I would make them sing it. There's moments where I cheated and I tapped on the microphone like it was the microphone's fault. And there's also moments where we had to stop the show. Quick change, and I never came back. Celine, try to calm down. When I try to breathe, my lungs are fine, it's what's in front of my lungs that's so rigid. Know you can show me, yeah And that's what happens, and it's very difficult for me to hear that, Celine remembered the little girl who sang with honesty. &quot;You sing like you are in your living room, and you sing for your brothers and sisters. You just sing with your heart.&quot; Lying. I can't lie anymore. Hello, everyone. I'm sorry it's taken me so long to reach out to you. I wasn't ready to say anything before, but I'm ready now. Recently, I have been diagnosed with a very rare neurological disorder called the stiff person syndrome, which affects something like one in a million people. I'm working hard to build back my strength, and my ability to perform again. But I have to admit, it's been a struggle. What did this disease take away from you? It didn't take anything away from me. I'm gonna go back on stage, even if I have to crawl, even if I have to talk with my hands. Not just because I have to or because I need to, it's because I want to, and I miss it. Celine! My dream is to sing. All my life. Thank you.