Hi, I'm Michelle Klein, member of I'm pleased to welcome [MUSIC] &gt;&gt; Yeah, [MUSIC] &gt;&gt; If not you then who? If not, you then who? You are sitting here, with the whole world in front of you, And yet some of you are not Some of you are not sure if some are wondering, Am I any less confused The point of today, is to let you know that you are absolutely That you all have superpowers, you inspire me every single day. So, we're going to talk I'm going to wrap it around story So let's get started, kind of pushy New Yorker telling you But I was the shyest kid, And it would take a lot for me to speak I grew up with a twin brother, Adam. Yeah, we were dressed that way. I have I grew up with A lot of my students know that she sends downs and I'm she protected me as well. But around age nine, my personality I even made some questionable fashion with fashion I don't know what you'd it definitely made me stand out. But through the years, I have these life experiences and And what I've learned is that everything leverage. Even if it's a skill that's dormant and you can unearth it and So here I am now in I'm going to share some of my beliefs and And these are my principles to live. I'm going to read it because I'm going to go over today When sad or Compassion over aggression. Figure out how to connect to others. Showing faith in others Let people know who you Listen when people tell you who you are. Be accountable own your words and actions. It's not what happens, it's how you deal people know that I believe in that. And then of course, create your own And then finally which I teach then figure it out, but So here I actually Emily covered this also I've been here nine years. And I co created a course reputation That was my gateway class into here And then I created Project You and So today hopefully you will learn from my My first lesson is disappointment When I was at Camp summer camp, two months to summer camp, because their And I was auditioning for Godspell. I think I was about nine years old and Peter Pan and I killed it. So I'm like I'm a shoo in for God's spell. And not only did I not get a roll, So I go back to my cabin and I'm like feeling so sorry for And my counselor comes over and the youngest girls in bunk Why don't you go help them? So it's like okay, so the next two weeks I was the director and practiced with them and the producer and Through that for some reason I got girl colorwork captain and I had a reputation If I had gotten to Godspell, But none of that would have happened and the lesson wouldn't have been learned for I really believe this, that when you it's a challenge but My mom taught me, that first of But she also told me that when someone it's because they're coming Hurt people, hurt people. She's like try to think maybe Maybe something's happening in So I'm sure many of you have been in a &gt;&gt; When people are coming at you, they want to engage you in they can let out all that anger and But I really believe that if you meet fire empathy, well, then you'll there'll be a greater When you meet someone who's angry with can I help in any way or something's You'll see all of a sudden the whole like this is so frustrating. And then you're like, how can I help and Now, I wish so this is the takeaway, How many times you've said only they had And I always say, yeah, So how does that affect you? How do you want to show up? What's the leader that you want to be? How would you handle the situation? All you can do is show up, role model it and not let someone Now, it'd be lovely if I took I had to learn the hard way. When I was at the home shopping network, Diane Von Furstenberg. I came over from Good Morning America and all the products, And that's a whole another story coz I really am, &gt;&gt; As Bert Alper says don't let the truth get in So, anyway I went over there to produce partner, and Emmy had her own reputation. She was known as difficult and So when she first met me, glad I'm partnered with you. I hear you're really friendly, I hate people, so And I'm thinking, wet flag, But you know what, I'm like, Maybe we can balance each other out. So after two weeks our talent quit. And they said, Alison, And I was like, okay, [LAUGH]. And so Amy felt betrayed and And she was so angry at me. And she would try to, she just tried to undermine me. She turned our whole team against me, You're all too young to know But it's about a woman who'll do So she would call me Eve. Anyway, I asked her if I could go to She says, no, you can't go. We need you. And she said, you're so lucky. I'm so understanding always. And then I did the wrong thing. I escalated. you have been a total bitch. God. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] only time I've used profanity. And, boy. It just, after that, she would talk in much worse. And all I realized is that moment what I really felt. It wasn't worth it. I should have been strategic. I should have figured out how to And so that momentary feeling what you feel, it doesn't pay off. I lost all control and So my lesson for only I can take care of So you're not a pushover, You're still a leader because You're going to rely on You're going to come up with solutions. You're going to set boundaries, hopefully. And I don't know if anyone probably Mary Spicer does This was Joel Siegel from He was a correspondent for movies. And when I was an intern at GMA, he used was such an eager intern, and I loved him. When I started working right out he likes to haze the new people. And he came and he yelled at me in front humiliated, but I was also really But I didn't say anything. But the next day we were at the mailboxes, that's how we communicate And he comes up, he's like, hey, Alison. And I'm like, hi, Joel. I said, Joel, I am so First of all, it was very unprofessional. And second of all, it wasn't warranted. And I really like you, and I admire you, But I can't talk to you right now You could have blown him over. I was 21 [LAUGH] but I had boundaries. And I knew if I didn't set a precedent, And he said, Allison, I'm so sorry. He talked like that, Allison. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] And you know what, he never did it again, What I'm trying to say is that the then you have to report it. But otherwise, as you say it in a nice way, So my next tip is connect When I was at Penn, my first year I took TV by the way, just so you know. And there was this study I'm sure you've heard of it. It's where the people, if it's a group of and no one does anything. There was a very big case called the Kitty a courtyard and screamed and But what the study said is, connect to them as a human being, it's So don't scream like fire on a train, I need your help. So I remember this and I was in London my junior year, And because I was a city girl, I thought it was much better And I was coming back from the library and And I got out on the platform and And it was deserted. And I get out, and a group of young men who are obviously And they see me and they start Hey, Miss America. Hey, Miss America. And my heart stopped. I'm like, my god, Why didn't I anticipate this? And I remembered this, and And I said, hey, Was it my down jacket and And then I went right up to the guy And I said, hey, can you do me a favor? I need someone to walk me home. It's late and Would you walk me home? And they said, sure. And I put my hand through this where are you guys going? It looks like you're celebrating. My heart was pounding, and And they walked me home. Now- &gt;&gt; It was risky. And I'm not saying that'll work. But that's what I was thinking about. I was thinking about connecting and not escalating a situation that I really believe that that eye contact, can help you in a sticky situation. All right [LAUGH] strange picture, right? There's definitely a story about this. My next tip, show faith in others. I'm at Good Morning, America. That gentleman over there President Reagan's son. And he was a correspondent for GMA. And we had to do this really boring the Empire State Building. And so every holiday, they change it and we were going to interview the inventor of And we were like, this is the most So Ron has this great idea. He goes, I've got a great idea, You'll be and And in every shot, carrying you while you're flailing, And we're like, brilliant, hysterical. So I had this intern Matt And I threw him a bone. I'm like, Matt, would you like to be And he's like, yes, please. So we go to the Empire State Building. We're in the 88th floor on the balcony. Ron's inside with this really boring, this nice older man interviewing him. And I'm in Matt's arms with And I'm waiting for And then I do something I said, Matt, whatever you do, And they go action, and drops me on my back and Monkey cement sandwich, not good. I had to do the take 42 more times so What I did is I made I didn't show faith in him, right? If I had just said, And I've learned through my own life I doubt myself. So as a leader, I try to be empowering and I believe in you. It's the best gift you Because if you think you doubt them, they're not going to perform If you treat me like an idiot, By the way Matt got me a nice I really liked Kiwis back then. So storytelling, how many by show of Yeah, we all know this. &gt;&gt; Storytelling is a weapon that I want And my storytelling skills started early. And I really thought about me, and One, I was a very avid reader growing And for me, it taught me about dialogues I mean, But how everything worked together and I also was able to visualize I always preferred books to movies. And then my mother, We walk and if a movie had already I in halfway through. I know child abuse right terrible and an hour I'd have to figure out And then we'd sit when the movie was over minute intermissions in those days in carriage. And we'd stay and think did I get that right. So what this taught me is I had to figure verbal and visual cues. It was pretty much strategic And then I eavesdrop, I'm sorry if you've I like to go and read and eat, I would be trying figuring out, Are you fighting? And I'm going to watch your does that person seem happy or not. So yes, I do it, and if you see me at &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] I'm a pop culture fanatic. I was faded my mother named me after opera ever on TV called Peyton Place. So I was forced to be in pop culture and she was a great actress at that point. And then we know I have some But during my teenage years I was paid to gossip and stories. And it was important for me to know And then I have an interesting talent People Magazine since its inception. I'm really good at table talk, and who wants to be a millionaire. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] love movies and And my best friend, Jamie, I forced her to watch it at home one night So I started acting it out for I must have seen it 20 times. Then the cable came back on, and So we started to watch it again. And she looks at me She's like, It's crazy, you know, every line. So what it showed was my ability to act out scenes And change my voice for each character So there you go again, When you tell a story, this is what you're telling people I want you to know why I care about what And I want you to know my strengths but And I want you to know what makes me Maybe through my life experience, my story is going to prove Even though I did something 10 years ago, I learned something from it. All right, where's Erin raise your hand? Okay, Erin knows the story, Erin was I told the story and But really that resonates because I was So for those of you haven't heard to the Missouri floods. This wasn't my favorite job was to book but my first day I was in the helicopter we're taking pictures. Looking just like this, just the, it was just a very horrifying experience. To go over this, all this water and then Find a family and convince them to come with our crew back to their house to So, I went to the Red Cross shelter. I talked to the head of the fire And then I had to find a family, and there his family was sitting on And I went over to him and I said, I have a crew and we have a boat. Would you like to go maybe rescue some of your personal items? Well, he started to scream at me. He said How dare you. You want to exploit me at the worst I have lost everything, am homeless. You're going to go home in three days And I just let him go on and I put my hand on his arm and please accept my apology if I've I wish you luck, And about a minute later, I feel this tap he's like, so how would it work And so my lesson which a lot is that storytelling goes both ways. He needed to tell me his story and He needed to get it off his chest and And I needed to understand And when that trust was built, then he It was a great experience for him. And he did rescue personal belongings. And the executive producer called me and that wasn't the point. And I always think back to this So if I were to do it now or because I think I was only about 22 or I would have said hi, I'm Allison I am so sorry for what you're will help you at all, but Would you like to try to get would you like to show America So we can get more support? That is how I would have approached it, To learn the right way to do something and I always try to say never make So it was a big learning lesson. Bob Marcus who gets in if I don't know how you've So again it's that compassion, Why are you upset? What can I do? That's where the connection comes in. So many of you know I teach with Tyra, and we had Gary Vaynerchuk come in And where to put your story and the reassuring news from Gary was that But if you are pick a platform Whether it's Instagram and whether you're in service of somebody and But he said if you're going to do it, But it's very important for how to broadcast it. You also need to know how So for some people, just 30 seconds just the high points or Or three minutes are sometimes five audience and you tell a really long they're going to be frustrated In my class is personal branding and last assignment is that my students For personal branding, it's who I am, what this personal brand and Strategic pivoting is what I've done, how it will benefit you very similar. But the exercise is, if you can tell someone else can take that story and where someone can be of service to you and So this project was done in And they'd go on live television and and it was broadcast. So would you like to hear? Let's hear some narratives. I know some of my students have seen So this is from Project You. [MUSIC] &gt;&gt; Yeah. [LAUGH] [MUSIC] &gt;&gt; Hi, I'm Nancy and From the necklaces I love to rock to the and vibrancy is such a huge part of who I I was born with a disability in my arm and Before I even knew my name, doctors put they told my parents, But I refused to believe that, I saw how vibrant I could be, helping other people see their own Photography has shown me that I'm so it's allowed me to connect with I built my company Akos&amp;Co to share it's been my absolute honor to share And it's my big hairy scary being about photography Think cookware and interior design, but designed with the needs and I want to help other women expose their &gt;&gt; Every time I see this, I'm moved. You know so much about Nancy now. You know she had a challenge, you know she wants to And there's enough there that talk about Nancy to someone else and She also was the embodiment with the beautiful colorful When she finished this class, she took a black and white picture of And she took that one to me. It's one of my favorite headshots &gt;&gt; [APPLAUSE] All right, [MUSIC] &gt;&gt; Good evening, Sharks. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] say that. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] my name is Ross Pomerantz, and I'm in the into something far more &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] 20 of my closest friends and family and I asked them what they 20 out of 20 said humor. Now, if that wasn't enough, ten years ago, I was voted the fifth-funniest &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] my sister stuffed animal Chester, &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] comedic greatness for a long time now. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] discipline, which undoubtedly comes Where my only regret was I didn't &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] I've been put in a very unique position. My pilot started seven years ago, when I created an alter ego, in parity of Silicon Valley's sales life, &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] I have nearly 120,000 fans. I've gotten millions of views And I even get invited to go speak at tech &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] I don't think. The last year and a half I spent writing which frankly, I think Is our best work, me to say because frankly I've So Alex, if you know anyone at WMV, Allison if you know anyone in Jenny if you know somebody at Google TV, So I'm very excited to take my launch I'm going to land on. Thank you. &gt;&gt; Fabulous, right? Do you know a lot about Ross? Did he not role model the humor? I mean, you heard, we were a natural Jenny from pivot and I were hysterical. There was so much in there, it was a tad the point was you understood what his credibility. And he really knows his narrative, and he's told me he's used it in So people tell you who you are I was a pen I love creative writing, but And I was always like the goody two shoes as we all know. But she hated writing, and I'd always get And she said, Allison, you write like People Magazine. I'm not kidding, I had a People Magazine But I did not whip it out and I felt that I was stupid, I felt that I was going to fail and that But she told me what my brand was the masses, taking complex thoughts and So that it's a very top line message. And that is what you do in TV. That is what you do in coaching. And that's when you do in education. So Biff did me a favor, I was too young to appreciate that wisdom. But I go back to it a lot, and think, wow, I think my superpower So think about what You're so good at this or Whatever it is, because they see how you land on them. And they might be able to encourage you So this is my son Logan, And this story is really have you heard of Bing Nursery School? Think here at Stanford, okay? So getting my son's into Bing was I'm not kidding, I got them in because I really felt And I was at orientation and when they and play and everything they talked about. And I was almost crying, thinking, this is such a privilege. So about two weeks into it, And the head teacher Sarah, who's She said Alison, Logan learned a new word. And I'm like great, She goes, it's fuck. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] she goes with any idea where So I say well, I'm sure it's for me, I said I don't know when and She's like it's okay, other kids curse but we just don't want you to And don't worry about it, And I went back to my car and cried. I'm like, I'm in the best school and my kids cursing up a storm. So I go to pick them up later on and Allison, did you go to your car and cry? &gt;&gt; [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; I said, yeah, I did. And she's like Allison. So that's why we love you parent who has ever admitted it was them. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] She says, we trust you, you're so And I ended up doing the auction thing and that was where my trust was built. And Sarah's still a dear friend. So the more transparent you are, We know this from the trust radar and There's shame in hiding the truth. It's much bigger burden on you to try to Own it your candor will inspire All right don't be afraid I was at Qualtrics a few And I got to see three of my heroes And then this gentleman came out to speak, CEO of SAP, I didn't know who he was. I was in an audience of 11,000 people, he came out very good looking guy, salt And he sat down in this dark auditorium, And all I could think of is, Is he too cool for us? Is he Jack Nicholson? What's he trying to say? Because I'm always looking at signals and something I rarely do, which is I ever do when they're in an auditorium &gt;&gt; And I look at my phone and I look them up. And sure enough, he's had an accident. He was walking down the stairs and he shattered and a shard of glass went into So what I was thinking was if I had look Billy, You've 11,000 people 10% And they're going to make assumptions. So before you start talking you say, hey, surgeries on my eye I need to wear And then, you go on. And then all of a sudden, you feel connected. And you're not distracted from So the lesson is, say who you are, share your experiences be authentic and Don't be embarrassed for who you are, they help people connect to you. So why should you create a narrative? I know you've heard me It's more interesting People can carry your story. It helps you connect and What makes you stand out in the crowd? You're all brilliant here. What makes you stand out? Each of you has something So you have to figure out your secret sauce is what I like What do people again, All of you who've done the pee rap, right? My god. I apologize to everyone had you learned what do people say about you? When you figure out your secret sauce and So number nine, it's not what happens. It's how you deal with it. Reputation management started that way, it will probably go on my gravestone. Shit happens, it's going to happen, How you deal with it says way more So, what if you have a reputation for arrogant, late, blaming others, not joining in activities. Well, you can behave your This is from Joe Peterson when he you is let's say you know someone, And it's kind of funny and it's quirky, what it's saying is your time I don't respect your time and So what I said to someone as I said being consistently early. So get to the next meeting early, and everyone's going to say, what are you And you'll say, no, no, And they're like, okay, then you show like, you're still doing the early thing. And you'll yep, And then you keep showing up early and And all of a sudden that old reputation And you don't even have a reputation for What I love about this example is You can always be fluid and tweak better and then consistently show up and I really believe in choosing to I think many of us would rather sweep it from my experience people that becomes a fixed bias about you. And so have those hard conversations things unsaid and especially as you If there's anybody who you feel you you think, I called up Amy, that producer from the speaking to her for over 20 years and And we talked about and And it was a hard conversation that it really healed me. It also teaches you how to You should be able to have in your personal life and not be It teaches you how to advocate for I was really hurt by this but It also creates trust because people forthright person. And, it helps you control So, it's not what you say, I think I said this earlier. You can say anything to anyone. If you say it in a way that is kind, candid. I do believe you can spin And so let's say you got fired and you don't want to talk about this. Well, you have two ways of doing it. One you can say, this job is terrible, says, why were you only there for You say, well, I was promised this and [LAUGH] What does that say about you? How about you say, I thought I was going to be doing this and But in the six months I was there, now I'm even more prepared So how you message something you can put a positive spin on anything I've had jobs that I had to squeeze And, that doesn't really But you know what? I would always try to Maybe meeting a new person, So again, we're back to, And I want you to opt in and Okay, all of us have opportunities many times we say it's not us, And that's because it's scary to opt in, we don't want to take anything new on. Or we're doing what we're doing we're not thinking about We're afraid to take a risk, we have imposter syndrome. But I'm going to remind you that when the deliverable is never So if someone says I want I want you to get this promotion, or I like, [SOUND] just think okay, say yes, And you can research it, ask questions, But you are all sitting here, you're here because you So just take those don't get all that negative And say what, I'll figure it, So use your origin story you're all thinking what's my narrative? Well you go back to your origin story, me if you this is going to be redundant some of you don't know it. So using my own experience I went to Penn, I started a Good Morning America three I went to the shopping network, [LAUGH] And after that, I led the whole show which I really loved. And then I was wooed away to another producer, 16 hours of live television. I was the face of the network, fired, and then this was me doing a promo, Hi, I'm Allison Kluger, your host for We get New York City designers all the jewelry is like a piece of art. Each one is handcrafted, you can't find it anywhere else. You don't have to wander around that very special piece of jewelry. We're going to bring it to you. We're going to bring you the piece of that you can't find anywhere else So be sure to catch me here at GSN, &gt;&gt; [APPLAUSE] [LAUGH] Someone had to do it, right? And you don't want to that very special piece of jewellery, Anyway, then I was wooed over by the view, I had known her when I was an intern and I know that she's old and she was a pioneer, and And then my husband went to the GSB and I had to move to here and And I had to support us and go into, I was a.com disaster, open TV snap me up. I was an executive producer there. Then when I finished, I did a year with Al I took that job just to work with him, the money cause believe And then, after seven I'm sorry, three years of trying, And I took seven years off to raise them. And I did start my own media consulting the amount of times I actually worked, My husband was starting up companies. And then I came to this place, it really says what I felt. And a lot of you might be there right now, And I just had to say, So I figured these are the things And no matter where I go and what I do, So don't be afraid to repackage yourself. There are times you're There are times you're But everything you need is there, So here's the exercise that I teach So again, many of you know it, it's called cake and icing. I visualize this exercise from this book, it's your rational value, Your icing is what people say about And together they make your strong brand, but they also enable So now with all those jobs I what I do is I write down my What are the talents? What's my functional benefits I can do? And then you see what keeps popping up. Well, I always create content, I'm innovative, oops, I'm problem solving, I coach talent, and Look how many times that pops And then my icing. This is what people would say about me, your friends, And so these are the things that I Now, if I were to create a narrative I pick out an anecdote or that proves my credibility, And that is how you can curate stories for So present the solution, I see I'm running out of time. I'm going to have to be super fast. How many people know the Tyra Show of hands. Okay, I have to tell it that, Tyra came here on SMX, I was in And she talked about personal branding. And she was so amazing and And I'm sitting here going, And I force my way backstage And I have a 32nd narrative, and I say, I was a TV producer at the view I know you've been on both shows. I want to teach a course with you on what do you think? And she was, I don't know. And I'm like, no, I have a great idea. And I said, And she's like, okay, and she gives me a week later. In that week I go back and all six classes. What are the textbooks Who are going to be the guests? What's every segment about? I'm going to stream it live on I'm going to come out of a live We'll do visual branding. And I put it all together with all were available, and then I talked to her here's the outline, And she was amazing. She was, I can do this, and she was the most brilliant And she made it easy and said, And I said, give me the two weeks you can And she's like, okay. And give me a backup, and she's okay. Then I went and then I anticipated what all the push And then I thought about how And then I went to the assistant And I said, I want to teach a course here's her proof, this is the course, this this is how it's going to be these are the takeaways, these are out And he asked me every starting with Tyra is not our brand, I'm like, she is. [LAUGH] And he said yes. So, the lesson here is that I'm going to go back quickly. Present the solution, not the suggestion. And the reason I say this is that if I went to the assistant dean and said, I think I want to teach with Tyra I Absolutely not and that would have been it for me. So if you want to create change for don't identify the problems. Create the solutions, I've looked at your website and you're And I want to be in charge and this is those of you who aren't as bold or But it's worked for me a lot and then I did it with Alex. I created the course ahead of time. Alex was available to guests speak, the course now exists and So I'm telling you to be authentic you and to do that might push you out So finally, my last story is I was I was about two months in, And this woman, Sonia Selby, right, an She pulled me in her office and I don't ever want to see you crying. Do you know why? And I was like. And intuitively I knew I but And she says, because you're young, no one is going to trust you. No one is going to give no one's going to think you're reliable. She goes, if you're having a bad day, you can close the door. But if someone says to you, how are you? You say I'm great. Do you understand? I said, yes. And she was, get outta here. And so she threw me out of the office and I didn't, but this was an epiphany for me. And this was how I became the leader I I wanted to be respected, And so I became unflappable. And they'd say go to Alison Go to Alison she's really Go to Alison, she's a problem solver. And then I went to jobs in the control room where So by showing up every day, is how I created the reputation and how I became the leader I want to be, obviously I cry a lot, I still do but, So, act like the leader you want to be and Everyone can do it. You're not cheating yourself These are the leaders who I want to be Oprah for transparency, Michelle Obama inspirational and Ruth Bader Ginsburg for breaking barriers. Those were my North Stars, So, what are my takeaways for today? Lead with love, compassion over storytelling is a secret weapon, Choose to engage in those hard present the solution not the suggestion, and act like the leader you want to be. Because, if not you then who? Thank you &gt;&gt; [APPLAUSE] &gt;&gt; Kendy [APPLAUSE] &gt;&gt; Thank you everybody. &gt;&gt; Thank you so much Allison. I think we have time for one or then you can probably catch &gt;&gt; My God, all right.. &gt;&gt; For any follow up. &gt;&gt; I'm excited, not nervous for Who's got a questions to stone me? Yes. &gt;&gt; The mic is actually right behind &gt;&gt; How convenient. Did you plant that person? &gt;&gt; Hello. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Hi, Alison. Thank you so much. So I think one of the greatest gifts from it gives us to share a message or I love to hear how you think about out of the public eye, And also to that, how you stay authentic, sometimes to our loved ones and to our How do we close that gap? &gt;&gt; Thank you for that question. I don't always choose And then I have to opt in. And so I would say that I've had impostor years of my life. I'm only 30. So I don't really know how that math works, but &gt;&gt; But, many times I've been tapped on the shoulder to do something, or someone's you to be on air, and I will battle with And by the way, the reality is never We build it up in our heads. So the outward facing me is When I started teaching here my epiphany is I'm going to At this point in my career I worked really hard to create I'm going to say I can't do it or So in being authentic about it, I just we all know I'm not budgeting but I know what I'm I hope that answers your question. Yes. &gt;&gt; Chris is right behind you. Perfect. &gt;&gt; Hi, &gt;&gt; Hi [LAUGH] &gt;&gt; That was amazing. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Yeah, thanks for reminding me. My questions about your being infront upfront with people. I'm just wondering Is that always the case not speak up or say something on &gt;&gt; I've grown into that as well. And thank you for I'm a great believer that the more you is people in reputation management They don't have to work so And I've always said, some of my students when they did the reputation survey, rude so you don't care about me. And I say that's because you're shy and people are making assumptions about you, because they just want to be friends with So, sometimes it's good to say, I'm really happy to be here. But front load the information you want, There are different if it's going to diminish Then I might find a better I always believe that And if you're working so hard to be And I think ultimately we all want to who we truely are and And for the things we feel insecure about, But if you don't broadcast and say, I need some help. Everyone wants to help you. So I hope that answered your question. I think that transparency But I'm a pretty open book, me except when I called Amy a bitch. That was not good but I learned from that. Thank you for the question. &gt;&gt; Thank you so much Alison. &gt;&gt; Thank you all. [APPLAUSE] I love you all.