When you're hanging out with your friends, the math behind the decisions you're making. But there's a whole field of math -- and It's called Game Theory. Game theory was pioneered in the 1950s by Russell Crowe played in A Beautiful Mind. But game theory isn't about games the way Instead, a game is any interaction between is affected by the decisions made by others. So, sure, that could apply to a game of poker. But it could also apply to practically any up in each other's business. Like, did you interact with anyone today? Well, you can probably analyze the decisions Game theory is incredibly wide-ranging, and scientists, biologists, military tacticians, Game theory has two main branches: cooperative, Noncooperative game theory covers competitive winners ... and some losers. Probably the most famous thought experiment Dilemma. The prisoner's dilemma describes a game two prisoners. We'll call them Wanda and Fred. Wanda and Fred were arrested fleeing from the police have already collected, they're But, the DA wants more. So he offers them both a deal: if you confess be granted immunity for cooperating. You'll be free to go. Your partner, though, will serve ten years If you both confess, and dish up loads of end up spending five years in jail. But if neither of you confess, you'll both Those are their options. Then, Wanda and Fred are split up. They don't know what their partner is going They have to make their decisions independently. Now, Wanda and Fred they- they've had some but they don't have any special loyalty They're not brother and sister; they're Fred has no reason to think Wanda won't Competitive game theory arranges their choices that looks like this: If both Wanda and Fred choose not to confess, In theory, this is the best overall outcome. Combined, they would spend as little time But ... that immunity sounds pretty good. If one of them chooses to confess, and the Then the math looks like this: That's the problem: Wanda and Fred have Wanda might consider not confessing, because only serve two years. If they could really trust each other, that But Wanda can't be sure that Fred won't He has a LOT to gain by confessing. If he does decide to confess, and she keeps while he goes free. Compared to that, the five years they'd sound so bad. And that is game theory's solution: they So, right now you're thinking, "Wow, game But it actually makes sense. That square in the grid where they both confess known as Nash Equilibrium. This is a key concept in competitive game A player in a game has found Nash Equilibrium better off no matter what their opponents If Wanda confesses, and Fred does not confess She gets to walk! By confessing, she went from serving two years If Fred does confess...she's still better If she'd kept her mouth shut, she'd be Now, she only has to serve five. Sure, if she decides not to confess, and Fred out in two years. But that's an unstable state. Because Wanda can't trust Fred- she doesn't This is not a cooperative game: all of the in the back. The Prisoner's Dilemma is just one example behind its solution applies to all kinds of Generally, when you're competing with others, that benefits you the most no matter what Then there are cooperative games, where every a common goal. This could be anything from a group of friends bill at a restaurant, to a coalition of nations climate change. In game theory, a coalition is what you call When it comes to cooperative games, game theory's contribute to the coalition, and how much In other words, it tries to determine what's Where competitive game theory has the Nash called the Shapley Value. The Shapley Value is a method of dividing to the value of their individual contributions. It works by applying several axioms. Number one: the contribution of each player removing them from the game. This is called their marginal contribution. Let's say that every day this week, you When you get sick for a day, probably from fifty fewer cookies than they did on the days So your marginal contribution to the coalition, Number two: Interchangeable players have equal If two parties bring the same things to the the same amount, and should be rewarded for Like if two people order the same thing at of the bill. If two workers have the same skills, they Number three: Dummy players have zero value. In other words, if a member of a coalition nothing. This one's controversial. It could mean that if you go to dinner with you shouldn't have to chip in when the bill Which seems fair, in that case. But it could also mean that if somebody can't receive any compensation. The thing is, there are good reasons why somebody on maternity leave. Or they got in an accident. Or they have some kind of a disability. In situations like that, the coalition might of them not being able to contribute. The fourth axiom says that if a game has multiple across those parts. This just means that, for example, if you but you slacked off on Tuesday, your rewards Or if you ordered a salad one night, but a pay more on the second night. In other words, it's not always fair to The numbers should be reviewed regularly, If you find a way of dividing up costs or that satisfies all of those axioms, that's The Shapley value can be expressed mathematically Which, yeah, is kind of complicated. But we can break down the concepts into something Let's go back to looking at cookies. You're baking cookies, and your friend is In an hour, you can bake ten cookies when Your friend though, is like, a cookie wizard, bake twenty cookies. When you decide to team up. When you work together, you streamline your One person can mix up all the batter at once So after an hour, you have forty cookies. But if you'd each been working alone, you'd Then you sell each of those cookies for a Now you've got forty dollars. How do you divide up the loot? The Shapley value equation tells you to think If you take the fact that you can make ten total, that gives your friend credit for the That's what happens when you remove your to you is thirty cookies. But if you take the fact that your friend that from the total, that gives YOU credit Because if you're removed from your friend's to them is twenty cookies. In the first case, your value to the coalition But in the second case, your value to the According to the Shapley value equation, you Ten plus twenty is thirty, divided by two So, the Shapley value equation says that you should get twenty-five. This method can be scaled up to coalitions marginal contributions to every other player those numbers. Interactions can get much more complicated so there's a lot more to game theory. But it comes down to this: in a competitive be smart. And in a cooperative situation, game theory Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow, Patreon who are people who contribute to SciShow, can be free for everyone. And right now, we're taking all of the money end of the year -- so from September to December brand-new series here on Youtube. It's going to be a new channel under the It's either going to be SciShow Life, SciShow We here at the SciShow offices want to do of them so our patrons on Patreon are deciding. If you want to be one of those people or if go to patreon.com/scishow. And of course, if you just want to watch this, and subscribe!