The Power of Clear Seeing - Mooji on Self Inquiry Mind Attacks [Mooji] So many people, Mind attacks. Meaning what? It is totally going on in your head! But nobody has ever seen a mind ... It happens inside people. What is happening? Let us take a look again. I don't know, maybe some of you may find that as I talk about them, you are losing focus and consciousness about it. This is also a mind attack! It is as though seems to oppose your expansion into consciousness, oppose your awakening into your true light, becoming happy, and independent of this very poor relationship It is as though and it never seems to get tired. But you get tired, or we will see, and on what we call our self and where we position our self. because we can name thousands of problems but the victim is always the same and the troublemaker is always the same. You can have thousands and thousands of problems. And sometimes people hear one problem resolved and then another one says, 'Yes, in my case ...' But it is same thing! The same knife I use to cut tomatoes, and I cut whatever vegetables ... I cut my onions, So, it is the same, same method of looking. You see, it is one medicine for everything! And I am going to show you again what it is. So, we are very, very aware Your mind is blowing a storm, saying all kinds of things! And it is really about the ego. There is a joke that says, 'The one good thing about an egotist is that he doesn't talk about other people'. [laughter] Basically, it is always about himself or herself. So something, this play that happens, 'OK, but they don't like you, And, 'Oh yes, they are going to see that Or, 'You are not ready. You are not good enough. Remember last time you failed. What makes you think you will succeed again?' Whose voice is this? Who is it? Who lives in this house with you 'You are too late. Too late. [Mooji beats his head] So in satsang, Something is crushed, 'Argh argh', feeling the attacks from the mind. And it is feeling real. It is painful! Sometimes people become really physically sick. And everything like this. What really is happening and to whom? So you say, 'The mind is coming. It is just always like ... It is manifesting like fear and I don't want anybody to see me. I don't want them to see me like this.' it is already functioning in your head that they look, 'Oh my God'. They notice you, You need to be alone. You don't want anybody. So, what is causing all of this? You can sit down, look at it, and say, there is something inside that is whispering, or communicating to my sense of self and saying, 'You are not going to get it. It's not your path. Yet you know that something brought you here. At a deeper place you know that In a superficial place it feels like So what do you do about it? Well, first of all stop fighting against it. In the immediate sense stop fighting and trying to create distraction. And now, you don't fight for a moment. You just observe this. Leave it for a minute. but you just be aware of it. You start to be aware of it, and this feeling of fear. What is the voice actually saying? What is it actually saying? So it may be saying, What are you doing with these people? They are all strange anyway. You say, 'No, I don't want to listen'. So, that is the message in the fear. It is that these people don't want you here, or they are isolating you. So you write it down, and then the next point is, It will seem already that because you already put yourself Who is being attacked by it? But you say, 'OK. It's me'. Exactly what is it? Is it the body? Is it the body saying, No, the body doesn't have that and to have enemies or friends. It is not the sentient functioning inside. It registers the pain, it takes the pain, but something inside is the one that It is not merely the body. Who is it? Let us see if we can identity Who is the victim of the pain? And if you start with this question, I would say, just sit quietly and write this question down, because from the mind is going to come you don't even catch the question You may notice, I said, Look at your paper. Oh yeah, OK. So I have to ... ' And you find it very difficult What is this? This is a mind attack. Who is it attacking? You must try and see, not just the feeling, not just the assumption, 'It is me'. but see if it can be directly identified, In the beginning it might seem, But hold the question and stay with it. Use the question to see Don't just assume the sufferer. Just begin to look. And if you find that these are the distractions that are coming up. Just keep looking back at your paper again and say, 'I'm going to try and stay with it'. You may find you feel tired and lazy, No. Just stay with it! And at some point you may find something like [big yawn]. Something feels much more relaxed. This is one of the ways in which the energy that is compacted into the identity is really being released. It comes out. In one way it comes out, [yawning] then you see that ... Yes, it is quite contagious. Then you see also, 'Wait a second, something already feels much more ...' The environment inside feels Something feels like you have just exhaled out some of that stale energy, but don't give up the question. Sometimes we feel, 'Aah! Thank you. Thank you. I think I will go Stay with the question, Let us try to identify the sufferer. Use the suffering feelings, the kind of anxiety feelings Just keep this question nice and simple and look. And you may find [big yawns] keep coming. Just keep looking. You may find that happens quite a bit. It is one of the ways in which delusions leave, the energy of them leaves and with them their delusion is going also, It is just one of the many ways in which ... Sometimes if it is caught very powerfully, or in the presence of someone you may find that That is also how it can come, but we are not working for that. Don't be looking for that saying, 'Why is the yawning not coming?' You just try to understand, if there is a one who suffers. Don't let your beingness Look for it and by looking for it, just your in-turned attention is already burning this delusion out And you do that. So that is the power of the inquiry to somehow clean up all this kind of mess The Invitation takes you very nicely straight into the heart of being, It is not a place of shapes, It is like a timeless realm. It cannot be described, but also it cannot be mistaken. I found myself calling it a formless noun, meaning that it is not a thing. It is a kind of a thing, It is not something passing. It is not a movement. So it is not a verb. It is like a thingless thing. So in that, somehow, Is-ness is being. The person does not have a strong role, nevertheless, it will come back into play. It can come back into play, but it is much less consequential in its actions. It is much more superficial. The sense of personhood is much lighter, It is not that ... Because the strong identity has been neutralised and when the identity is neutralised, everything goes well in the world! Title: Cling-On Thoughts [Mooji] Come to the mic and say. It is easier. [Questioner 1] Like, when images just come and you have a strong clinging ... [Mooji] Clinging? [Mooji] That is watched! Strong clinging. You are a cling-on. So that is watched. What makes it continue is if you don't doubt it, if you don't check it out, then you identity with the one who is clinging. You say, 'I can't. It is so hard to let go.' I say, But can you see, is it the What Is-ness You have to keep coming back to base! [Q.1] Guruji, it is watched, Like sometimes you are here and then thoughts just come [Mooji] OK. Let me talk you through it again. The thoughts come up. They come up. I did't give those thoughts to you. The satsang is only exposing them, or exposing a potential that So then somehow the thing comes up and then immediately identification goes there. If identification does not go there, that just gets dissipated into oblivion. You are just oblivious to it. It is gone. So then, something comes, because identification is there. The monkey is on the back. [M.] Is this perceivable or not? [Mooji] So right there you begin to look, and say, 'But that is perceived'. Then something says, [laughter] Suppose you meet this type of thought, sometimes you meet someone ... Suppose you open the door Someone knocks at your door. You open the door and say, 'Hello'. They go to the kitchen, start to make breakfast. You say, 'Hey, what's going on here?' 'I don't even know you. Get out of my house!' [laughter] Normally you would think, 'Oh! Sorry mate, I was just really hungry. What if the person says, 'I am not going!' He puts his foot up on your table, lies down and says, 'Listen, go and fix me a cup of tea'. You say, 'You've got to be crazy! You can't come into my house. 'I am not going!' 'You heard'. What do you do? What if a thought comes and you say, He looks at you and goes, 'Ha, ha, ha!' 'I am not going anywhere.' What will you do? What will you do? Do you say, 'OK, I'll leave then'? 'I will go and rent another apartment.' What are you going to do? You have to find out, 'This cannot be true. This cannot work. I am the landlord of this house. And there are no police where you live. How are you going to get him out? [M.] How are you going to get this thought out? [Mooji] He is in your bed. He has got the remote control. [laughter] OK, so let's take a look. I don't know where we are going with this. OK, let's take a look. I am only pushing it to see There is a thought there and it won't shift and something is feeling like, 'Help!' I have seen people like this, many in that state, gripped by their own mind. So where do you go with this now? So, you say, 'Yes, I look from the What Is, but it is not moving'. Because you are not the What Is. You are just someone thinking, [laughter] And the thought knows, [laughter] You say, 'Listen, I am the What Is'. And the thought says, 'All right'. What are you going to do? So what I am pointing out is this. Either you are in a place Because what tends to happen a strong force of identification And this identification and the one who is going, is also part of the play. And something is able to look at this acidity, and as you look you don't identify. It feels like something is saying, 'What can I do?' But this, 'What can I do' voice is also heard. And you keep looking. Please listen, Don't try to stop the feeling. It grows with resistance. So let it be there. But you just keep looking, The voice will say, I say, 'Me who?' Keep looking. It's a voice in the wilderness and that is where it is taking its juice. Its nutrient, its nourishment Who is the believer in it? This is your question. You are unrelenting in your looking! Don't give up. It's not going to say, I'm going to go to someone else.' What does it mean, You stop? You see it. You see, You keep looking, you stay with him. He is throwing eggs at you. Don't mind. Just stay, stay. Don't judge, don't identify, just keep looking and just keep on, And at one point [sharp exhale] he is gone. The grip ... and the one who is holding onto also, Then the tendency is to feel, 'Thank you. Thank you Jesus. Thank you. Thank you.' You are not this one, also. It is there, relief is felt, Of course, relief, the sense of gratitude, but don't identify so strongly. The space behind and in which the relief also is experienced, That is how you are going to face They have to come! They have to come! And you have to use them, you don't know that they are there. It is only when you identify as a person, you are behaving like a victim. But when you identify as the What Is, as the investigator, as the viewer, they can't sustain their power because the victim is going to run, but the observer is going to stay. And the illusion or the delusion cannot survive against such a kind of observation. You are going to use it. 'Thank you for this test to grow my spiritual muscle, Don't just search for rescue, If you are going to say, 'Please stop this', then stop the one who is suffering also. Have I gone too far with this? This is the way you have to look. You have to use your inquiry. You cannot just think it. You cannot just keep going, [Mooji uses funny voices] Who am I? Who am I?' Some people are doing this also, like you can frighten your mind with being brave. Just look. When it has subsided for now, then this activity has fulfilled its purpose. It has done its job and you have done yours. You have used it to look, to clarify, to verify, what is your true position? Are you the one who is being beaten? We have been trained to identify and feels, building up some kind of case. And the ego, it loves evidence, 'April the 6th at 8:42. It loves this kind of stuff because by that it can live in the notion of being a person and it wants to do this behaviour somehow. When you see from the clarity of the Is-ness, all of this becomes laughable. It has got no teeth. This serpent has no teeth. It can be given to the children to play with. But when you are identified with this stuff, he is like the original serpent. I wonder if you are hearing these things? [Sangha] Yes. to destroy these delusions, to wake up, not even to destroy them, When you wake up they are no more! If you try to destroy them, you give them a sense of life [Mooji] Do you see this or not? [Mooji] That is it. [Q.1] Guruji, but in my case but it is more like an enticer, like it is seducing you. [Mooji] It's the same victim! One is being seduced, it is same, what is the difference? One in pink, one in orange. What is it? It is the same identity behind him. It is the 'me' factor, this one, As though you have a case. It is trying six of one, [laughter] There is not really any difference. Just one wears pink and one wears blue but it is the same characteristic, it is the same identity that is being enticed. [Q.1] So you just go to the thoughts, images, and then you are just involved with it because ... [M.] No, that is what you have been doing. [M.] But that is not what I am telling you to do. [Q.1] This is being watched, about the future and then it is so enticing, you just like go with it, go with it. [Mooji] There is nothing wrong with that and you want to play with the idea, 'I think in the future I would like to do this', we don't take it too seriously. It is when you believe you are really this guy in the way that your mind is projecting, But if your are just simply playing a little bit, 'I think I would like to do this', Of course, one of the abilities of consciousness is to imagine, to create, to play. It is meant to ... It is like, you took the role too seriously. You are playing King Henry VIII They say, And then you go home and say to your wife, 'Where is my dinner?' She says, 'Well, I didn't make any'. I mean, you are still role-playing the game is finished. It is OK, it is a play, Then they say, So, the one who is awake, he is saying, You say, 'What play? The next time you say that, off with your head!' This is what is happening, in fact. [Questioner 2] Can I say something to that, because it really relates to me also. I was just having movies going on, how I speak to you and then something else, was very bothered by that and that made it stick, then it kept coming, just silly stuff, [M.] Don't get involved Let me explain this thing. Don't get involved ... We are going to have one long satsang today, Don't get involved in any scenario. Just keep staying in the place of the What Is. You can look from there. It is a big window. You can look at the whole world from there, but keep confirming your place. Not confirming in some rigid mental way, but in the beauty of the discovery of the What Is. Look and then you can see your persona acting and all this stuff, but something does not take it in and to that extent you will enjoy your freedom. Now, if I say, You may say, 'You mean if my house is on fire No, you will do whatever that is needed to be done in the moment, and such is life. If somebody comes and says, 'If you're attacked by three people, 'I'd do that to one of them, and I will do that with this one.' That is your fantasy, maybe you run We don't know what you will do. So you don't have to plan anything that is, 'OK. I am going to do something Just forget it. As life presents itself to you, something will respond in the appropriate way. You don't only have to believe this, you can test it out and you will see. You can then come and say, 'Mooji, actually that doesn't work like that, because the time came and I fainted actually'. [laughter] I'd say, That was what was meant to happen, Suppose you are attacked by three guys they are not going to beat you up. So you don't know what is going to happen. I saw a video, actually, some guys were attacking one guy, they came to beat him up. They came to beat the guy up He pulled his trousers down. And they took off and they said, 'No, no, no.' They don't want anybody to see them harassing someone with no trousers. That is not cool! So they took off. Now where did that idea come from [laughter] From the What Is, I tell you! [laughter and applause] Just trust. [laughter] The appropriate thing will happen I mean, it doesn't work if a dog is attacking you, taking your pants down. But anyway, my point is simply this, that we don't trust in life, because mostly we have been conditioned and to force things, and to imagine too much, and so you are out of sync with life That's what happens. Too much personhood, too much projections, and our intuitive functioning, and perception. So, all I am saying, is just to forget about all these techniques of living! Discover yourself as life. It is enough. [Mooji] Are we good? [Mooji] Now can we go to lunch? [Q.2] Thank you. Copyright (c) 2020 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.