Hi, I'm David. I'm a playwright from Ngunnawal country, the unceded lands of the Ngunnawal people in southeast Australia. I come from a family and in 2014 I wrote a play (Laughter) The play follows the story who take over Australia's Parliament House during a Fleetwood Mac concert and hold the entire government hostage, demanding an instant end So the story is ridiculous, but I wanted the play about what happens when the unstoppable meets the immovable object of politics. OK so obviously the title But just to be clear, when I wrote it, Now thanks to the work of journalists we know how climate denial began. Oil and gas companies recognized back in the 1950s and '60s. They set out to cast doubt on the science. They funded lobby groups, They astroturfed an entire So now there's this industry who make a living denying When I made the statement I expected outrage from these people. But I did not expect pushback I figured there are no If there are regular, normal people they can't be that passionate. So I was very wrong. (Laughter) Now to begin with, the play received from exactly the people I expected. When the first production a conservative politician called for the play to be shut down. There were angry articles Breitbart, Infowars, all the usual suspects Some of these pundits accused the play and they referred me to the police. Their argument was that people and be inspired to take to end climate change. Now the theater company or a crisis communications team, so out of concern for the actors' safety, But I didn't like backing down. It didn't feel good. I felt as if giving up on the project was like agreeing And I did not agree with them. The play was not But no theater company of being referred to the police. I couldn't get it up as a show. So instead, my musician friend Reuben sampled dialogue from the play and wove it into a series We toured that record around Australia. We couldn't get into theaters, so we went to nightclubs, Then we launched an unauthorized People downloaded a special version and listened to the music and the story while walking around the real-life setting Like so. (Applause) (Music) (Music ends) Now all of this helped to build up But even more importantly, Not one government building during a Fleetwood Mac concert. So four years after the original the play finally made it at the Griffin Theatre in Sydney, followed by productions in Prague, Obviously I was very happy. And in one version of the story, that's where it ends. This project just joins right-wing commentators have found alongside Elvis, smartphones, twerking, Miley Cyrus, Fortnite, the Beat Generation, skateboarding, Woodstock, Woodstock '99, sugary cereal, TikTok, gay marriage, NWA, feminism, the Twist, Dungeons and Dragons, LiveJournal, shopping malls (Laughter) But as the play made something else started happening. I started hearing from climate deniers. And not fossil-fuel pundits or right-wing journalists, real climate deniers. Regular, normal people. And I couldn't get my head around it. Like, why did they care so much? Like, if you're an ExxonMobil executive, then you have a financial incentive But if you're a high school or a massage therapist in Massachusetts, why would you spend desperately trying to debunk Now it turns out that although as an astroturfed movement it caught on because it connects in a very real way. I got emails, I got physical letters, They started showing up And as the show got bigger and bigger, there were more and more of them, I wanted this play to start It just was not the conversation I ended up speaking over the course of this project. Now some of them wanted Some of them wanted to tell me like, &quot;What if I wrote a play But some of them were interesting. These deniers wanted to explain to me They had a whole worldview. They said, &quot;The reality is, David, that climate change is a made up excuse for a huge program What climate activists really want They want to control what we eat, they want to choke the life and they want to throw the doors open Now I wanted to respond &quot;I'm sorry, you're wrong. That's not what it's about.&quot; But the more I talked with them, They're right. They are completely correct. I mean, they're not correct about climate That, sadly, is not true. But the consequences of climate change? Yes, diets are going to change. Yes, a lot of communities in exposed Yes, there will be huge within and between countries, And we don't even realize I believe in the science and so do probably most But more often than not, we go about our lives as if it's not real. We plan our careers, we build houses, we educate our children But the world we're educating At one degree warming, we are already on a planet unlike anywhere and our systems are starting Now whether you believe or if you think we're going to turn or massive social movements, whatever climate future you believe in, our lives are going to radically change. Our future will not look like our past. We accept the science, but we haven't processed the consequences. We don't explicitly deny climate change, but in our actions, stealth deniers. I'm one of these people. Maybe you are too. I keep my carbon footprint But then I got on a plane I read research reports about which cities to climate shocks, resource shocks. And then I forget all that and think, I just want to buy a flat in my hometown. If you believe something do you really believe it? Now climate deniers understand so they don't accept the science. They know what it means if it's true, I think we can learn from climate deniers. I want to be more like that high school that massage therapist in Massachusetts, because they live what they believe. You and I, we think we know better. We are the ones in denial. And I know deep down the harder the shock when it hits. Thank you. (Applause)