GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: I'm on my way is ground zero for modern It's very exciting to steeped in alien lore, but I'm the Roswell crash site, because before. My mission involves a much I'm headed out to in My name is Giorgio Tsoukalos. I explore the world that and speculation, the What we've been taught is not the whole picture, but are one step closer [music playing] On July 7, 1947, an unidentified just outside the town The next day the local newspaper from the Army Air field had quote, unquote, flying saucer, the military revised that was nothing more than According to reports, the from the site of the not a single piece of Now this to me is the most because the object that was found near the So what if it is the the military missed? [music playing] How are you today? Good. How about you? Good, thanks. What can I get you to drink? I'll have some coffee please. Would you like creamer? No, just black. Thank you. What brings you to I'm meeting a guy who an alien artifact, so Really? You're not the first one into this restaurant. Ever right. Never. A local man named Robert Ridge about 10 years ago while and he found right near the crashed in 1947. And the Roswell Rock is shaped rock of brown color. It has this design isn't etched into the rock, but And it's interesting to me that have never even Robert? Hey, Giorgio. Pleasure to meet you. Thanks so much for It's great. Fantastic. Have a seat. Yeah. How are you folks? Good. How are you today? Good. Good. Fine. Can I get you So ice tea. Lemon? Please. Did you bring the rock? Yeah. Yeah, I did. Oh, wow. I did not expect It is smaller than definitely heavier I mean, the precision is-- wow. The Roswell Rock reminds I've seen before in other parts in Egypt or Are there any strange It has some type of A magnetic field? Yeah. How do you mean? Well, it reacts to a magnet. Did you bring a magnet? Sure. I happen to have my It might spin for me today. I don't know for sure, but. Oh, wow. That's interesting. Let me see if I does it work with does it only work with you? Well, I guess I'm probably Wow. That is sure strange. And is this the only space No the other circle-- It does it over here as well. Will send it-- will send it clockwise. Oh, wow. Yeah. There's something else you You mess with you pretty much learn and so I was Messing and I got it to where it would-- it, kind of, draws You know, I try to keep GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: So with your body energy. Yeah. That is wild. Well, would you be where you found the rock? Oh, no. I'm up for that. Really? Oh, yeah. Let's go. Check, please. So what do you do for a living? Well, I've been in the all my life, and I've Oh, that's cool. Excellent. All right, now you're going here and then come around, see the terminal up there. There's a lot of history here. This is the air base. In the 40s, it was the the SAC This is the place that they crash. This is the place, so Off over here GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Hangar 84 took the debris and alien before eventually moving It's kind of surreal to be Here's our pilot. How are you doing? Are we ready to go? We're ready to go. Are you guys ready? Absolutely OK, let's get moving. Sweet. Firing up the engines. Let the adventure began. Yee haw. Now where is the to where you found the rock? It's 11 miles, what What do you mean It's where the [inaudible] first, left a and then proceeded back towards came to rest. Why do people believe Jim Ragsdale were up here camping. They actually saw the crash on the scene. That's why they call They supposedly saw the There it is. Right here. There's the spot. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: ROBERT RIDGE: Yeah. Wow. So So this is the And what brought you out here? This is deer This is-- in the right seasons, the deer are just thick in here. And I saw fresh deer tracks So I thought I need to get So I get out and start and they bring me I looked over up and it's-- there it sits. Mm-hmm. And I'm thinking to myself, It looks like it You go ahead and place Sure. I'd say probably like that. Yeah. A lot of people might but I'm not a lot of Right, right. And so that's how it was. You know, it was in '04, also. So this has changed The sand looks like it's a now. I can totally see now from the environment. So do you think there's a and finding this I think it's possible. You know, the skip It was a massive you know, from all accounts, And so if it was moving that the ground like a why couldn't that have been You know, the government of this country And maybe they missed something. I don't know. But I've thought it was special hit my hand. The military allegedly spent but the sand out here So it's very easy to see something as small Now, what I want want to see if we can find maybe so we can draw a comparison. Great. I'm always up for All right. There's some rocks All I see is some rocks that are but it's definitely not Because you compare that, it's not even the same category. Not a whole lot out here I said I want to And so you know, over I want to definitely mull And I'm going to go ahead and do So let's head back Let's do it. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: to Albuquerque to Howe, an Investigative extensive research not only on but also on the Roswell Rock. I have read on Earth Files that between a crop circle that and also the Roswell Rock. Pretty much the two What can you tell me about that? At first I thought could And we can do a comparison here. Now, on the left is the and its pattern. And on the right is in wheat 120 feet long. And when you take each item, They're exactly identical. Wow. So you clearly think that the In this one had a pilot and a passenger over the field and And they flew back have been more than a half There were four layers thick, as one direction, would and another direction And there's no board, string, It was one of the most that anyone had ever What's the I mean, it's kind Basically, we're dealing The moon and the sun and This is reflecting past, This is relating that moving through the universe to point bending space time that about. I really do think S is trying to teach us humans. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS that we have equal but to be the sun and to mind a concept from the as the Vedas. And that is &quot;as In other words, what is connected directly to what The very fact that would have these magnetic clockwise and counterclockwise, by some intelligence? Was it a fluke of nature? And Giorgio, no one has Linda, I thank you very The information that I've has been absolutely invaluable. Thanks very much. LINDA MOULTON HOWE: Thank you! Honestly, I really be some fake, but after seeing to Linda, I'm beginning to think something quite extraordinary. So now it's time to through some serious GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): concerning the Roswell Rock is is made. And those who claim it is say out of the rock, the most likely is not with laser but with a process known as to cut away the rock All right, let's go. Let's check this out. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS and I decided to meet to put this theory to the test. Hi, guys. David, how are you doing? I'm Giorgio. Pleasure to meet you. How's it going? How are you? - Glad to meet you. Glad to meet you. All right. Glad to meet you. So what do you have Well, I'm trying to see if like our Roswell Rock. So you're going to try to Exactly. I'm going to try to show What processes We'll be using stencils, OK. That's awesome. I got a head start. I copied the design, traced ran it through our and cut the design, cut it And of course, all I had So you can get a pretty Robert actually brought the to give the rock-- Yeah, if it'll Check it out. What are your ROBERT RIDGE: Do No, I don't. I don't blame you. What are your thoughts? [sighs] It's kind of interesting. It's got some around edge that It's a 90 degree there, On this side, it's got this Very interesting. Thank you. Every one of those cuts are achievable by man. ROBERT RIDGE: Give it All right. Pull that stencil off. First one finished gets a prize. Oh, I was done Yes. Oh, nice. Mine's 10 times bigger. Now, I think that this that you've just created, But it does not match Well, of course. It's a different rock. These are perfect circles OK. I could take my little tool, and If you had to, you can take and It's simply not the same. I mean, this is an and that, to me right And I know you had a Thank you. You know, I mean-- Make sure for my I only had a half an hour. Of course. This was supposed to be the is a sandblasted piece. I got to tell you, Robert, I am in the previous days. All right, David. Thank you very much, guys. Thank you very much for Anytime. All right. Take care. See you. Thank you, sir. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS blasted replicas appear very but Robert and I are going under a microscope. We're meeting with Doleman, a man who has been years in order to get an what type of rock the You must be Giorgio. I am. This is Dr. Bill Doleman. Giorgio. Pleasure to meet you. How are you? Pleasure to meet you, sir. And Robert. Hi, Bill. Pleasure to see you again. You, too. We're here to look Now, I know you've but we're here to with some other rocks Mm-hmm. And also a sandblasted piece So here is the going to look at this under We're going to look at and we're going to talk about come from there I can't wait to see this Me neither. Well, good. Now, you found this where? Well at the base of OK. Let's take a look at So that would be-- It's-- Here's Roswell, and here's the So we're smack in the middle The blue is limestone. Now, this rock doesn't So right off the bat, it of place. Now, did you get any I did. Absolutely. We collected some right here. Oh, you guys are Well, we do what we Gotta play the sorting Do some high-powered Mm-hmm. Now, this is limestone. You see, I can easily cut it You're cutting into this why? So you can determine Test the hardness, exactly. Limestone generally with the point of a knife. What I find striking, though-- The question is, where Exactly. Because this totally falls that we have here. So why do you think that is, or might actually be? Basically, it's what It's rounded, and is very typical of stones So anyway, what's is that this is a And that's very unusual. As you can see, any has got different colors Mm-hmm. And do you think that this might There's some coat I'll tell you what In fact, I've got the I often use this to just grind of a rock to give myself to go through the on there, to really look using a microscope. Robert, what do you think? Oh, hell no. Uh-uh. No, that thing, it Well, I didn't so. And actually, it-- So for all intents this is a foreign object Even not looking It looks like it-- Oh, we haven't even Well, it keeps Well, kind of hard to miss That aside. Earlier, we went out there and he was 100% convinced that A fabrication. Yes, and so what he did right here. And we brought them Mm-hmm. I'm guessing that these of clastic sedimentary rock. I'm going to get it set up, and All right, why don't you guys Mm-hmm. Yeah, you can definitely see surface-- Granular structure Mm-hmm. But now let's put the Because that's what to look at this Oh, wow. This is wild. The edges are so clean. I mean, it's as if this was fine knife. Wow. It's crazy, huh? [chuckling] I'll say. I mean, this is not even as the sandblasted pieces. I mean, here is the crazy thing. I've seen edges like this Puma Punku is a site in Bolivia is more than 10,000 years old. There you can find dozens that appear to be cut with Now, no one has ever been primitive people would have and chicken bones. But according to the they say that the stones but by the gods. Looking at the Roswell I'm beginning to think it's a carving made by some but it appears to be the technology, whatever Now, could it be man-made? I still of course, To my mind, I'm looks as if that was clay fine instrument. Yeah, that's-- that's-- GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: I As a scientist, what would you Well, I think we need And we need to One, it's got a magnetic We'd like to know more Two, we're not really sure whether it has a So I've got a friend who's and he has access to some very for measuring magnetic fields. Second of all, I've got a And that's basically a of the rock. And so we'll learn about the inside of that rock. We're not done yet. No, the investigation has just intrigued. So thanks again. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys soon. All right. Bye-bye. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: The the mystery of the to find out why it in contact with a magnet. Dr. Doleman has with an electrical And he has agreed to of sophisticated instruments where we can bring the rock and So Nathan, Robert showed me he was able to make So there are some type We want to figure out if we instruments to determine whether interesting about that we have here. Be kind of A, is there really a B, what is its strength? And C, what's its What tests do we OK, so the first test is measure the field Cool. Let's get started. All right. Show us the goods. OK, so you want to calibrate to make sure we're And what is this This just isolates the OK. Now-- so on the we have about a 1/2 0.8. Now this end, close Close to zero there. So the field is going to So this would be the And this would be So with the north pole, we're because the magnetic and then it's coming back around So let's probe around and see what else we can see. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Yeah! 7.3 Look at that. All right. It was 7.8 there for a second. OK. All right. [interposing voices] It's getting higher. This is getting weird. It's the symbol that does it. Whoa. Wow. We've got an 11. And it's the thickest We got an 11 right We've got an 11.3. The edge of the design, There are some rocks found in or other magnetic minerals, like the ancient Olmecs in Mexico over 3,000 years ago. But I do find very curious that Rock seems to be If there is a magnet, let's then it would be right here. That's correct. Mm-hmm. Is that something that that there might Yes, there could be. It's very, very, very possible. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: After actually be a magnet I was more determined than that it is in fact a solid rock from a mold or painted. And so reluctantly-- Robert agreed to let us use of the rock. We're going to find something I think you have amazing and I greatly But I want you to have you know what, maybe Last chance. Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's do it. You're the man, Robert. Wow. Here we go. It's hard. I'm going to try one collect the dust that we want to analyze it later. And I think we need GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Robert by us grinding into I mean, the guy was tearing up. And it's hard to imagine the rock was a fake. This rock isn't just but it's almost as if The grain or the Yeah, I can see it. Inside the natural So that kind of confirms-- Robert, come over here. Yeah, Robert you've You have to see this. You're a bit emotional. It's OK. Right here. This is a natural rock. There's no question that no It's OK. Yeah. You can breathe now. If this thing was a plaster we would have found out But whatever this is certainly much And we now know that it This is a very, very fine Magnetite has what I am going to go that they are the little black Although I expected Magnetite could explain the but we found much less than expecting. But why does it have a And one that's highly specific part of That is still a mystery. This is much finer grained So at this point in time, with this power, short of it might be kind of hard to because it is so fine grained. And so I think that when we look we're going to have another well, was the inside we can see, having only shaved Right. And thank you I mean, I'm just-- Thank you. I've got all sorts for being willing to do this, you know, when push comes You didn't back out. You didn't. And that to me was It was like, you know, and I was like, &quot;you know, well, If he takes this rock, it's You didn't do that. &quot;No, I left the Sorry.&quot; Yeah. OK, so here's what we know. We've established that some fan-made rip off. It's not plaster. It's not painted. It's a real stone with a finely easily reproduced. It's also magnetic, but we So now we need to find out some little magnet or something makes it move and Well, this is a CAT scanner. And it takes a beam of x-rays and detects them, puts and makes images that That's fantastic. Do you have the rock? Well, yeah. Let's do it. Here it is. Whoa. I've never scanned So this is a first. Let's go ahead. Let's do it. OK, boss. Take her away. Fire it up. We're trying to come OK. To show it and get Because the surface of the Mm-hmm. Right. That's the design. Wow. We're essentially Right. Right. A star right there. What's going on? Right there. See that? Wow. There's a star. It's a ganglion, actually. That's the nerves of the rock. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: What is the inside of the rock. And it appears almost which means it's very We see a gray line indicating is, but overall this Now, if this rock was than sandblasting, we still And who would choose such We're looking right down and there is the design. Right. And we're looking any density behind that, onto the surface, So now we're paging through. Scrolling through. It looks as though the design - It does. It does. You can't see any I do not see any. So I'd like to go back Reason being, this was there anything might be responsible for that it has? And nothing is present. And nothing. We don't see any Well, we don't see inside that rock that'll or anything else. The great thing is that we inside the Roswell Rock. Because some people well, there's an inserted magnet But clearly there's And that is what I Yeah. I think this is all No, me too. It's great! GIORGIO TSOUKALOS (VOICEOVER): on the Roswell Rock, I last time to get his we'd discovered this week. There you are. Hey. Good to see you again. How are you? Fine. All right. Wow Wow. What a week, huh? Man. Before I tell you what I what do you think? How do you feel? I'm just thrilled that has shored up and felt about the rock. Great. Do you have the rock here? Yeah. I happen to have the rock here. Well, it kind of travels Thanks very much. You're welcome. Appreciate it. If y'all need anything You got it. Sweet. There it is. This part right here, you can this is where they did testing. This is where they Sure. Because I know that there were to say the least. Yeah. Well, you know, it hurt to that I found in it, you know? That was a deep point where And then we drilled into it, we that's not a plaster And then the CT scan. And of course also looking at ROBERT RIDGE: Wasn't that cool? Wasn't that just too cool? GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: Yes. I mean-- ROBERT RIDGE: That blew Especially when I under high magnification. It's as if this was a soft And I have seen these before in other places where sophisticated I've seen that. I think that we have might potentially be ancient. And so maybe this piece wasn't but that this is what A key. Who knows? It might truly be of Now, that is pure speculation, from asking questions. Sure. And we all know, if those and I always ask the be it. I don't care. Right. So this has been And so before I leave, I wanted It is-- Oh, wow. --the ancient I know this. I know this. Wonderful. I'm glad. I know this very well. So you are now This is so cool. Well, thank you. Thank you so much. And you know, I hope that that we see each other. I hope not either. So thank you very much. I appreciate that. Yup. Take these with me. Sure glad to have you. And you know, give me a call. Yeah, I have your number. So. Anything new about You've got it. All right, Robert. Thank you, Giorgio. Thank you very much. Have a safe trip. All right, take care. So now when I connect do I think that the Well, perhaps it was supposed but when it wasn't, was made maybe as a second And what is the message? Maybe it's a type letting us know that and that they plan Let's face it-- the final has not yet been written. But in the meantime, I'm off Wow. GIORGIO TSOUKALOS: there's a connection between The government did Maybe they missed something. I don't know. What's the I mean, it's, kind Honestly, I really be some fake, but after seeing to Linda, I'm beginning to think something quite extraordinary. So now it's time to through some serious So you're going to try to Exactly. Give it your best shot. This is a foreign object. We need to look In fact, I've got this Oh, hell no. Uh-uh. No, the investigation has just intrigued. So thanks again. Appreciate it. I'll see you guys soon. All right. Bye-bye. Is there really a Wow. We got an 11. This is getting weird. But one of the is grind a little bit off but I want you to have maybe we shouldn't do this. actually be a magnet I was more determined than that it is in fact a solid rock from a mold or painted. And so reluctantly-- Robert agreed to let us use of the rock. You are the man, Robert. Wow. Here we go. It's hard. I think we need to