(gentle music) Here we are, guys, 10 years into Lavendaire, officially 10 years ago, April 30th, 2014, I posted my first video on this channel. I actually posted two videos that day, One was introducing Lavendaire and why I started this channel, and then the first real video that I posted was How to Stop Caring About What Others Think Of You. It's quite incredible how much has changed in the past 10 years, how much I've changed in the past 10 years, how much I've learned, how much I've grown, but at the same time, I still remember being that version of myself in 2014, I had just opened this new YouTube channel, I went to my first Coachella that 2014, and it was spring, and I had purple/pink hair at the time, that was like my statement. When I graduated, I kind of went against what my parents wanted me to do, and like dying my hair, like all these pastel colors was my statement that I'm gonna be an artist. (giggles) So starting Lavendaire, it was after I had this like music journey, and freelance journey, and deciding that I'm gonna create the life that I wanna create journey, and Lavendaire was my space to document and share that. And I can't believe at the same time I was so wise, yet, I was still so naive 10 years ago because if you go back to watch that first video where I am introducing Lavendaire, I talk about the phrases that I wanted my brand to embody, the artist of life, right? I wanted this channel to be about figuring out how to become a master artist of life, meaning someone who knows how to intentionally and masterfully design their life exactly how they want, and I came up with a phrase, &quot;life is an art, make it your masterpiece.&quot; That phrase inspired me so much because I was pursuing this idea of what it means to be an artist, I was reading all these books about art, I was creating art and music, and I realized that you can apply those concepts and that framework to life as a whole. It was just like an aha moment where I was like, &quot;Yes, this is what I really care about.&quot; Like literally, making my life the best, most beautiful, most moving art piece that I can, like and making it what I want. So anyway, that's what Lavendaire started with, and here we are 10 years later, I am a different person, I have healed a lot, I have grown a lot, I'm in my new home, and I have this really cute flower cake. It's like this little cute heart cake to celebrate my 10 years. And today, I wanted to share 10 lessons that I've learned from these 10 years on YouTube. Real quick, I just wanna let you know that we're doing a special sale on our shop just for these two days. So today and tomorrow you can get 30% off anything on the Lavendaire shop site-wide using the code: LAVIANI30. I'll leave the link down below so you can check out our stuff, I recommend the &quot;Artist of Life Workbook&quot;, the &quot;Joy Journal&quot;, or the &quot;TBH Deck&quot;. Another thing, I ask you all to submit some questions so that I can make a Q&amp;A video, so that will be the next video, so stay tuned for a Q&amp;A about YouTube, my life, just anything you wanted to ask me, really. All right, without further ado, let's cut this cake and then I'll share my 10 lessons. (upbeat rhythmic music) So I actually got a lemon cake with lavender buttercream on the outside and custard on the inside. I saw lavender on the menu, and I was like, &quot;I need to put that.&quot; Mm, it really is lavender buttercream, hmm, it's so good! Let's begin with Lesson 1. One of the most important lessons that I learned in the past 10 years is that your dreams can come true, but they will probably happen on a different timeline and in a different way than you anticipated. So manifesting works, envisioning your dream life, all of that stuff, I believe that it works, but how it happens, and when it happens is kind of out of your control, you can't force things to happen at the time that you want them to. I remember when I started this channel, I had all these like goals, like, &quot;Oh, my goal to hit my first 1,000, 10,000 subscribers by like the end of the year, whatever,&quot; And just, I never hit my goals on the timeline that I set them, but the longer I kept at it, I eventually surpassed my original &quot;big goal,&quot; of like meeting a million subscribers, and now I'm at like 2 million, and that wasn't even on my goal list, right? Like it happened much later than I anticipated, but, you know, it just kept going beyond what I imagined. There's a quote that's really fitting for this. It is that, &quot;People tend to overestimate what they can achieve in one year, but they underestimate what they can achieve in 10 years.&quot; 10 years is a long time, you can get so much done in 10 years than you could ever really imagine right now because things will come up later, opportunities will come that are so unexpected, and life will take its own turns and unfold in such a surprising, spontaneous way, but all of it is beautiful, so just have a dream and keep at it. Lesson Number 2, it is so important to develop the skills of consistency and discipline. You really have to have a level of self-discipline to show up and do the work, and show up and face the like scary work. And when you say scary work, I just mean those like big daunting tasks that are out of your comfort zone. You have to be willing to show up consistently and be disciplined in order to move forward, in order to build that momentum to get anywhere. I think a lot of people like struggle with that, and that might be why you feel like you're stuck. I honestly attribute a lot of my YouTube channel success to my ability to be consistent with posting videos every single week when I started, like for the first year, I told myself, &quot;I'm not going to miss a week, I'm gonna be as consistent as possible, posting every single week on YouTube, even if nobody watches my videos,&quot; which nobody really watched my videos. But it was that consistency that I developed the habit of like showing up, doing the work, even if I didn't feel like it, even if it wasn't my best work, and just with the quantity of videos, it led to better quality videos, like my skills improved, my confidence improved, and eventually doing that for a couple of years, then my channel started to take off, so consistency and discipline are so key. Lesson Number 3 is to hone your self-belief and intuition. This is something that I share pretty often because it's so important. Like in order to succeed at something, you have to believe in yourself so hard, even when the people around you might not necessarily believe in you. And instead of like listening to outside opinions of what you should do, you have to really tune into your intuition and this inner voice because that is the truest compass that is always guiding you. And you should always prioritize that voice above everyone else's. It is because I love to journal that I was super connected to this inner voice. Whenever I was struggling or worrying about something, I would just journal, and then through journaling, I would just write pages and pages and pages until I'm like, &quot;Oh, this feels right, this feels like my voice,&quot; and have this like spark of inspiration on like, &quot;Oh, maybe this is what I should do.&quot; Honestly, the idea that sparked this YouTube channel came from a journaling session where I realized that I still wanted to pursue being a YouTuber because I don't know if many of you know, I had a music channel before, throughout high school and college, a little after college, and I stopped it 'cause it wasn't going, it wasn't growing basically, And I &quot;gave up&quot; on YouTube, like I decided to like do other things. And then after that break, I decided like, &quot;Hey, no, I still love YouTube, but let me try to do it in a different way.&quot; And that is what led to this channel, and that's all because it came from this like inner voice that told me, it nudged me like, &quot;Hey, this is what you truly still want.&quot; Lesson Number 4 is to remember to enjoy life along the way. I think when a lot of us are chasing our goals and our dreams, we feel like we have to like put our heads down, and hustle really hard, and sacrifice all these other things in life to get our goal, but the truth is, all of that is just a mindset, right? It's a mindset that you think you have to sacrifice all these other things in order to succeed, But like did you really have to? Like, I don't know, and is life really worth it if you sacrifice all those things? So I am a firm believer in doing things at a steady pace and enjoying your life along the way as you are chasing your goals and your dreams. Like make sure that you make time and space for your health, wellness, your friends, and your family, your own joy, and fulfillment, like go out there and travel, take a break, it's okay to go slower because this is not a race. Like it's not about like being so tunnel vision going after one goal, I'm really a proponent of like painting a image of like this ideal life you have, and going for all of it at the same time. Like enjoying all of life along the way. Lesson Number 5, you are on your own journey, so do not compare yourself to others. Oh my gosh, comparison is such a struggle. I struggle with this so much in my journey because I think it was how I was raised to compare myself to my peers and to try to be better, and be a little competitive, and it is just a unhealthy mindset because comparison truly is the thief of joy. I recognize through this path that I am unique, you are unique, we all have a unique light, and we all have a unique way of doing things, a unique way to express ourselves, and our creativity, and all of it is needed, right? We can all bring something different to the table. And once you can truly embrace who you are for your own unique worth, then you realize you don't need to compare yourself to others. And everyone's on a different path, everyone is like in different life chapters at different times, so it's like impossible to compare your life to someone else's. So if you struggle with comparison, do not waste your energy there. Literally, take that energy and funnel it back to yourself, nourish yourself, your self-care, just read a book, do anything else, but to compare. Lesson Number 6, let go of &quot;perfect&quot; and let go of control. So much suffering and struggle and anxiety is because you want things to go right, you want things to unfold and happen perfectly, you wanna appear perfectly, you wanna be liked, like all of that doesn't matter, like it just brings you stress. Also, letting go of control is a big one because it's similar to the perfectionism, we have this tendency to wanna control outcomes, and control events, and control how other people perceive us, and all of that is just a waste of our energy because some things are just out of our control. The Universe is gonna happen, it's gonna unfold in a way that I can't predict. Other people are gonna have opinions and emotions that I can't control because that's them. So why do I waste time trying to control everything and trying to make everything &quot;perfect?&quot; So once you embrace letting go of the things you cannot control and simply just do your best with all the things that you can control, also embracing that, even those can go wrong, and that's okay. (laughs) So I think that's just a big lesson in life that has allowed my heart to feel more free, is to release that need for perfection and release the need to control everything. Lesson Number 7, the path is laid with ups and downs, so stop identifying with external results. This one is pretty deep because I don't think people recognize that they identify with the external results of their work. They feel good when they get a success, they feel bad when they get a failure. In the journey of social media, influencers feel great when the numbers are up, they feel bad when the numbers are down, and your emotions are just rioting the rollercoaster of the algorithm's response to your work, and it's just like a very unhealthy thing for your mental well-being. So instead of tying your identity and tying your worth with all of those external results, understand that life is just a bunch of ups and downs, and you don't have to let yourself like get brought onto the rollercoaster, you can understand that, &quot;this too shall pass.&quot; Sometimes, there will be good times, and sometimes there will be low times. In the good times, that too shall pass. In the low times, that too shall pass, so don't worry about it, it's gonna be over pretty soon anyway. So realizing that, has helped me find a more centered inner peace, an inner peace that is rooted deeper within that is not like so tied to all this external drama going on, like whether things are good or whether things are like hectic and chaotic on the outside, it's just the wave of life, I'm just at this point of the rollercoaster, this point of the wave, this too shall pass, it has nothing to do with me, in terms of my worth, and so that helps my mental and emotional well-being stay more stable. Lesson Number 8, it's not so much about the results or the end goal, it's really about the process, and the journey getting there. I know people say this all the time, like enjoy the journey, enjoy the process, but I hope that you understand why, is that once you reach the end goal, it is just a moment in time, that will pass, right? So if you are working so hard and you're not paying attention to your life in the process of getting somewhere and you're living for that future moment, like once you get to that moment, it'll pass, and then you'll be like, okay, what the heck, like what next?&quot; Like you basically didn't pay attention to that journey getting there, and you didn't appreciate the journey getting there because that is where life happens. Like it's not that point in time, it's the whole journey, that is your life. Like yes, it is cool to set a goal and achieve that goal, like great, good for you, but I actually argue that it is far more important, not the goal itself, but who you became as you pursued that goal. It was the journey of your growth, the journey of the life experiences that you gained, all of that learning, that like allowed you to reach that goal. Do you know what I mean? Like we set these goals and we think that's the end goal, but it's not really what's important. What's important is who we become and how we change, and how we grow in the pursuit of that ideal. And so in that way, like you don't have to look at failures as failures because like even if you &quot;failed&quot; at the goal in the like concrete sense, like you went through so much, you learned so much, you gained so much experience, and that experience can never be taken away. It adds to your character, it adds to your value, and I think that's really cool. It's like a road trip where it's not really about the destination, like yes, the destination is cool, but it's about like enjoying the scenery and all the experiences that you have along the way of that road trip. Lesson Number 9 is the energy you put into something matters. And this is especially true for artists, creatives, and leaders. So when you're creating something, you wanna create it from like a positive, inspired, bright energy. You don't wanna create something out of frustration, obligation, like you know, negative energy because I think that shows up in the work. People can tell, or your work is just not going to be its best. Also, as a leader, the energy at which you show up matters, like your team can feel it. So it's important to know how to like hone the best version of your energy and then show up as that version of yourself, and that shows up in like meetings, communication, how you, just how you operate because people see you and they feel that energy, and everything trickles down from the leader. Like if the leader has blah energy or frustration or anger, whatever it is, like it trickles down to the rest of the team and the rest of the business. So take care of your energy and make sure you know how to do the practices to get your energy right before you show up to do work. So for me, in terms of like creating, I always make sure I create from like a positive, inspired place. Like if I'm not feeling good, I'm not going to force myself to create, and I know the practices that make me feel better. Go out for a walk, journal, meditate, do yoga, just do all the things to make sure I feel good, my body feels good, my energy is good, so that I could show up as my best self. Lesson Number 10 is resilience. Keep going, just keep moving, keep making progress, and no matter what, no matter how hard it gets, believe that it is going to go right for you if you just keep trying, if you just keep fine-tuning and learning, you have to definitely listen and see, &quot;Do I need to make any changes? Do I need to maybe pivot, right?&quot; Always stay aligned to the feedback that you're getting, and also to your inner voice, but keep moving, just keep the ball rolling because you don't wanna stop the momentum. Like if you're the type of person that likes to give up and then start again, give up and start again, like it's so hard to like get the momentum going every single time you start again, so it's okay to take breaks, but don't stop for too long, just keep moving forward, even if it's baby steps, like every day, it should just be a small baby step towards your dreams and goals. Like it doesn't have to be big, you don't have to do big things every single day, but just make sure you keep moving, and that you stay resilient. Things will get hard, you know? But if you fall down, make sure you give yourself a pep talk and get back up, that's the only way you're going to succeed because if you let yourself stay down for too long, then you're defeated and it's gonna be even harder to make yourself get back up after that. So forgive yourself as fast as you can. Like whenever there's a mistake or if you failed in something, just forgive yourself, be compassionate with yourself, and then keep going. That is resilience. If you just keep going and you have that resilience, you're unstoppable, that's just the physics of it. (laughs) I hope you enjoyed my lessons today, I wanna know what is your favorite lesson that you've learned from Lavendaire, of all time? Comment down below your favorite lesson, it could be a lesson, it could be a habit, or a tip, or an affirmation. Through your experience, I'd love to know what has been your favorite or most impactful lesson that you've learned. All right, sending you so much love, and I hope to catch you in the next video, which will be the Q&amp;A, and I will continue finishing this slice of cake. All right, see you in the next one, bye! (gentle rhythmic music)