[music] This is the cruiser &quot;Ukraine&quot;. The largest ship of the Ukrainian fleet. Yes, it is smaller than the Titanic, shorter by 83 m, but it is the twin brother of the Moscow cruiser. He is even better. First, he is younger, he is not at the bottom of the Black Sea, and no one sent him anywhere. The only problem is that he hasn't been to any of the seas at all. Finally we are here. They wanted to get there for a long time. Cruiser Ukraine is a legendary Ukrainian ship. Tell us about him, have you been watching over him for a long time? Unfortunately, he has never been to sea, but his story is legendary. - In 2000, 2001, there was a team here already on training, then a year and a half later it left and the ship has been parked here for 30... 25 years, think. The ship is working, he is in theory, if tomorrow they say: they give you money, that's all... He can go out to sea, just swim and not shoot? nothing or is it no longer functional? - Well, it needs to be repaired, it takes time to repair and adjust it and for it to enter the sea. And yes, while it is standing - we look after it. - At the time, I understand that it was one of the best ships in general ? -So. It was the most powerful ship we had in Ukraine. The cruiser &quot;Ukraine&quot; is one of the four children of project 1164 &quot;Atlant&quot;. It also included the sunken cruiser &quot;Moskva&quot;, the active flagship of Russia in the Pacific Fleet &quot;Varyag&quot; and the cruiser of the Northern Fleet of the Russian Federation &quot;Marshal Ustinov&quot;. All of them were built in Mykolaiv. The project started in 1972. The Union understood that their naval forces were completely inferior to the US and something had to be done about it. These ships were created for the ocean. A possible large-scale confrontation with the Americans. But definitely not for the Black Sea. - How true is it that this ship is no longer for defense, and this ship is more for attack? I heard this version. - Well, they said then that it is a killer ship. He could approach any city and attack from the sea in such a way that nothing would remain of the city itself. People who see this ship say: &quot;Well, it is already old, rusty&quot;, you said that it is not rust. -No. Rust... There is, there is rust. Well, somewhere such places are inaccessible, where they are below the water. There is rust here only at the waterline, where the water stops with the hull and washes over here, and yes - rust... Well, where did the water flow. There were divers under the bottom , there are no shells there, and the hull is normal. Well, there are no funds to maintain it there, for paint, for everything. - How much paint is needed to paint this whole ship? I heard that there was almost a ton for Moscow, they said. - Yes, a ton is not enough here. -Not enough paint? -Of course. In order to paint the whole ship only from the outside, it is necessary.. well, I will tell you now.. Well, at least three tons. -Oho! The Soviet Union collapsed. How much was this ship ready for? I heard 70% readiness. -No. Well, let's tell the truth, about 90%. - Was it 90% ready then? Oho. -90-92% yes. - Okay. Ukraine has built, as I understand it, by 5%. 95% is the readiness of this 5% - what have we finished for the entire period of time? - This is an inspection of all posts, installations, well, all electrical connection devices, mechanisms, machines. - It was 95% ready, but 5% was missing - what is it? - Well, these are running tests, this is a check of engines, a check of all systems, antennas... well, all posts. This was all included in the 5%. The Mykolaiv Shipyard is, unfortunately, another story of how to break and steal something that worked. 100 years ago, destroyers, submarines and cruisers were built here. And now there is no life here. In 1999, the Moscow cruiser was repaired in Mykolaiv. For the next 10 years, ships were built for Norway, Spain, France, and Greece. And after 2009, the plant did not create a single new ship. 3 years ago, the company was declared bankrupt. -52 orders were built for the Greeks. - Why did this one freeze? - There the dollar grew and the prices did not agree... - And you won't do anything with it? - Yes, that's it, you just need to cut it. - And how profitable was it, as you said, that you sold ships there and to Greece, to Norway... well, that was a good income at that time? -When these refrigerators were being built, it got to the point that the dollar started to rise, and he wanted to give the old price. Well, the argument started, they stopped... that's why this 52nd order got stuck. When we built the first one a refrigerator, it cost 12.5 million. He sold it six months later for 24. And so he raised it, raised it... he had such a profit on us that the court is still going on, how much do we owe him... 50 million or how much.. -For that ship standing? -So. - But if they really gave you the finances there, I don't know, of course, you probably don't need a cruiser... In principle, we have specialists, are there opportunities to build it, or has this period already passed? - I think I passed. All the boys are currently working abroad . - Where did they take the people? To which countries? - Poland, Finland - all these countries where ships are being built now. Where is the sea land now. - Have many people gone to Russia? - In Russia, I don't know now.. Well, we once went there, to Russia, yes... - Is it possible to restore this plant to at least average indicators in principle? - Well, why not? It is possible, the question is only about money. - We still need to restore that. that is destroyed - Well, a lot has been destroyed in your old age and a lot has been destroyed by the occupiers. - But a lot was destroyed by the occupiers. Everything, consider. A lot. The cruiser also has its own small railway, what is it for? In principle, one can even logically guess: there are many rockets here, they are heavy and along these rails they move to their destination: this is where the rocket itself is launched. -The lid opens here, the rockets are loaded here, and then they do their work. - What were these rockets called? -Wasp. Next is the helipad , the helicopter lands and is dragged there into the hangar. The blades are folded. - And what is he delaying? - There is a special winch. - And what is the height of the ship? About 12 floors. -Oho. And what is the minimum depth needed so that it can pass through water? -9-10 meters. -There are 9 mayors below us? -Yes. [music] It has begun. Black Friday. Advertising at every step, discounts, queues in stores, and you still have to get to them, because there are traffic jams in almost all shopping centers. I could talk like that, but I just drink coffee. I buy goods online with cashback and do not complicate my life. As? Everything is very simple: I order through my friends LetyShops with a hot cashback of up to 30% in famous stores. It will be difficult to buy a cruiser, but, for example, a quadcopter, which I already chose in one of the previous videos - no problems at all. You can immediately see where you can save 1,000 or even two, and the coolest thing is that from November 8 to December 25, LetyShops has a promotion: &quot;You buy - we pay&quot;, that is, I bought a drone or let's say a laptop that will not heat up so much, like this one They give me a ticket and the opportunity to win a refund for all purchases until the end of the year, but there are many people who want to get tickets and hot cashback, so it's better not to wait too long. There may not be enough activation for everyone, so let's not delay, go to the description, there I left a link to LetyShops for you. Download - this is a free application, go to the stores you need, buy what you want and get the opportunity to return the entire cost of orders until the end of the year. Happy shopping and good luck in the draw. [music] -Tell me about this gun. She looks so massive. -Caliber 130, double barrel, 90 rounds per minute. Very powerful. I was once at the ship's tests, when we were doing something in this hatch in this room, when I climbed here, when the cannon started firing - I was glued to the wall. And I hung there until she finished shooting, and then I fell on the deck. I did not understand what was being done. If I had climbed out on foot, I would have been swept away there. - Such a shock wave? - Well, yes, there was such a wave. - Do you still have any shells for it? - Projectiles are training. Well, when we were training, yes... - The anchor chain surprised me because its size is also... I don't know how many tons it weighs... - Each chain weighs 5 tons, somewhere 5-6 tons, yes. - I understand, here you unscrew it and it goes down little by little? There is not only there and there is also unlocked. Yes - Well, is this a mechanism that can be turned by one person? -Of course. And this ship left from these slipways. - You are this ship.. it actually floated all the time - it just turned around a little and that's all? - Yes, he turned around here, when there were many ships, then he stood like this: stern to the pier. [music] The ship has such a water protection system: it is actually all over the cruiser. Water is supplied under pressure by pumps when the ship feels some danger - it actually envelops him and the opponents, other ships, planes see him much worse: everything for them is like a fog. - What was the cruiser &quot;Moscow&quot; doing? This is actually the twin brother of this ship, what was it doing in the Black Sea? You understand, this was not exactly his area of responsibility. - Why? There were s300 missiles and Basalt long-range installations , so shoot at ours.. - The Russians say that it is impossible to penetrate such a ship with &quot;Neptune&quot;. Here is your opinion as a professional: is it possible or not? - So the &quot;Neptunes&quot; that broke through were good. I'll show where they punched And what he sank, I'll show. [music] - And here is the installation of torpedo tubes. - How is a torpedo launched? What is the principle? How hard is it? We know that launching a nuclear missile is very difficult, there are many agreements. Torpedo is much easier? - It turns like this by 90deg, the side opens, it is pushed out of this pipe, a depth of one to two meters is set, the range and target are set. - You have torpedoes, as they say, in such cellophane. - They are still preserved, new, not yet used. - Now we are at an electrical substation. Here, in this room, the &quot;Neptune&quot; rocket hit, which caused the ship to sink. The current has ended, everything has started to burn here, short circuiting.. &quot;He has no equal in a naval battle&quot; The doors must be closed tightly. They didn't work, didn't close, and water began to flow into one room, the second, the third.. Upstairs, in our dining room, there are dining teams, there is even more room there.. - And the doors, I understand, are not airtight? If they were closed, could &quot;Moscow&quot; not sink? - Here, every room is closed separately like in a submarine - also every corridor, every room is hermetically sealed because it... If this room was closed automatically - it would collect water and that's all - but there would be no current on the ship. There was a short circuit. And that's all. It was no longer possible to close the door or anything. -Panic, water, something on fire, electricity.. -Yes, it's dark.. -We were so lucky that &quot;Neptune&quot; hit this area or did we know in principle where the rocket should hit? - I think there is one here.. and there is also a big room over there.. [music] - Can you show me the zones where the &quot;Moscow&quot; flew to, so that I can visually understand plus or minus? - It's right here and right here, right in the center. - Now the cruiser &quot;Moscow&quot; is where it belongs. I have a unique gift for you from there. In this box is a cockade - a badge from the headdress worn by the crew members of the sunken &quot;Moscow&quot; after the hits of the &quot;Neptune&quot;. Just a month later, this icon stormed to the shores of Odessa. It is a unique thing, it is gold-plated, it has all the necessary documentation and one of you will receive it. I am currently conducting a large fundraiser for a special sapper ambulance special unit. These are people engaged in demining on water and under water. This is a very important and difficult profession, they need as many water vessels as possible. I am currently collecting a considerable amount for them, it is UAH 300,000. Whoever donates the most will receive this memorable souvenir prize. Therefore, friends, every hryvnia of yours is important. The war continues, it is not over, and in addition to donating, I ask you to spread this video so that we can close all the necessary amount. Details will be in the description of this video. The camera does not fully convey the scale of this ship, but when you go inside, you understand how easily you can get lost here. 1600 different premises. Many people who come here for the first time simply get lost here because there are so many floors - it's like a labyrinth so big. - No, I'm checking, I'm ordering the person on duty: &quot;Yes, you count how many got on the ship here and then prove to me how many are left there . &quot; minutes were searched there, especially there on the bow of the ship. They entered, there was a cubbyhole somewhere, where there was a pool , and then they went down, and there were such labyrinths... - There are people, such extreme lovers, who climb in various places... Do you climb like that? - There were such. - And how did the story end? - Well, I warned them. I say: &quot;Guys, don't look for it - they will close it, without lights you will climb like those until three o'clock in the morning or someone will start search. When it's dark here, it's like that... I don't often turn on the light here. Because now it's 1000 kW, so now we're sitting for a reason: lights are on all over the ship, and it's our factory... - Expensive pleasure? -So. Now we are in the premises of the medical ward - well, in fact, in simple words, this is what a hospital is like. -Actually, you could easily have an operation here on the flight... -Yes, yes. - I heard you even had a dentist here? - Yes, yes, the dentist is there on the main deck. There are cubicles for patients. [music] This is where the control of all machines and engines went , this is where the control and electricity, all the devices that are shown here throughout the ship. - You have a lot of devices, it seems to me like how nuclear missiles are launched, the same number of buttons. - No, no, this is engine control. - I'll be honest, we're a little far from the ships, we're used to having some kind of rudder there, captain... Is there such a thing here? - No, this is the helm. This is the helm, one, two, three. - And how many people should manage all this? There are hundreds of sensors. - Well, here there is a team of mechanics: mechanics, electricians. And there must be at least dozens... 10-12 people on duty. - We were once shown the cockpit of a helicopter, and there the pilot said that in order to launch the helicopter, take off, you need to do 100 consecutive actions, 100 buttons. And here too? - It can be like that here too, here too. [music] This is one of the ship control areas. For example, this is where the engines are controlled, then we can choose our course, then here is simply a huge number of instruments. These are actually the ancestors of modern computers. These are also different elements for capturing the target. But that's not what surprised me the most. We walk a little further and here we see simply thousands of kilometers of cable: it is all over the ship, there is a lot of it here, it is just tons of material. Here in this room sat all the commanders, missilemen, anti-aircraft gunners, machine gunners. - And rockets were launched from here? - The command was given. Not only from here. and there are other posts from where commands were given. Just under 40 years ago, this was cutting edge equipment. Since then, technology has come a long way. Just think about the technology your parents used and what is available now. Ships have also changed. Compare Ukraine with the most modern aircraft carrier of the United States &quot;Geraldford&quot;. It was he who was sent to the shores of Israel. Visually, it looks really cool, inside is also comfortable and cozy. The equipment is clearly not from the Cold War period. I welcome you to an ordinary cabin: here we have a window that opens, then a small room, there is a sink, there is a closet, there is such a workplace, there is some kind of safe. And the most interesting thing: one of the presidents of Ukraine is well remembered here. Another photo of Kuchma remains in place. Then in 1999, Kuchma got a little confused and called the cruiser &quot;Aurora&quot;. &quot;I want to sincerely congratulate you on a major event of state importance: the raising of the state flag on the Aurora missile cruiser. I organized a celebration and gave the command to complete the future flagship. Everything stopped at 95% readiness. Then the cruiser became a puzzle for subsequent presidents. Yushchenko did not make loud statements did and the cruiser just stood there, Yanukovych really wanted to sell it to Russia, Poroshenko removed part of the armament and gave the order to sell the ship as scrap, and Zelensky also agreed to sell it to someone, and instead build four corvettes. &quot;The right decision is to sell the cruiser and build 4 corvettes.. It's a pity.&quot; But the cruiser is still an overwhelming task. Presidents make decisions, leave, new ones come, but the burden under the name &quot;Ukraine&quot; remains. - Why didn't it work out in Kuchma? They really gave finance then, they wanted to build it? Why did everything stop? - Well, the presidents changed, they probably decided that it would not be enough to maintain it. That's why everything stopped. - This is such a ship - in principle, is it still realistic to sell it, or is it unlikely that anyone needs it? - I think that it is still possible. - Can.. Not for scrap metal? - Well, how did the Chinese do it? They will do their thing. The most important thing is that there is a body. - The Chinese bought ships from us, right? Tell the story, what kind of ships were they, what were they for? - Not the Chinese, the Indians bought from us. We built five &quot;Dolphins&quot; for the Hindus. Also military, with such missiles. There were 168 rockets there. This video is an absolute record for my channel. For nine months, I negotiated the filming of the cruiser, received permits from all possible authorities, and almost a year passed by the time we finished the installation. Yes, it got much colder. Therefore, OKKO has a winter diesel that does not freeze at temperatures down to -20deg. This is more than enough now. And already in December, &quot;Puls diesel Arctic&quot; will appear, so you can be calm about your car. I have many ideas for filming in winter, I am planning several trips. Therefore, you need to be sure of the quality of the fuel. Refuel at proven networks, be prepared for any weather conditions without fear of freezing. This especially applies to owners of diesel cars. But regardless of whether you have a diesel or gasoline car, you can help warm up the occupiers with Ukrainian weapons: refuel with &quot;Pulse of Revenge&quot; at OKKO and a hryvnia from every liter will go to weapons for waste disposal. OKKO for Oko. Do you remember at the beginning of the video I mentioned that &quot;Ukraine&quot; is a large cruiser, but it does not reach the size of &quot;Titanic&quot;? So, this is the Chinese aircraft carrier &quot;Liaoning&quot;. Just a giant, 35 m longer than the legendary &quot;Titanic&quot;. Why am I telling you about him? Because he is from Ukraine. In 1985, the Varyag aircraft carrier began to be built in Mykolaiv and was almost 70% ready. Later, they realized: they will not be able to pull financially any further and they have to sell. Tender in 1998. The only requirement: apart from the price, the ship cannot be used for military purposes. For 20 million dollars he had to go here. Macau is an administrative region of China. If you think that the biggest casino is in Las Vegas or Monte Carlo - I will disappoint you: it is right here. By the way, it was built by this man - Sheldon Adelson, an American businessman whose mother emigrated from Ukraine. So the aircraft carrier &quot;Varyag&quot; was supposed to be converted into a casino on the water. But something went wrong. The problems began in 2000, when a tug came to Ukraine for an aircraft carrier and got stuck in the Black Sea for 16 months. Officially: Turkey did not want to release it through the Bosphorus and Dardanelles because it did not have its own engines and it was dangerous. The unofficial version is that the States put pressure on the Turks because they understood that China wants to steal the technologies of the Union and build its own military facility. The funniest thing is that the tugboats and the aircraft carrier could not simply take off and stop on the water, so they were forced to circle the Black Sea at minimum speed for 16 months. The Turks finally agreed , and the very next day the aircraft carrier got caught in a five-ball storm, the tug cable broke and the &quot;Varyag&quot; drifted in the sea for two days. One sailor died. Only in 2002 &quot;Varyag&quot; reached the shores of China. The journey took 627 days, then the aircraft carrier disappeared somewhere. Think you're lost among the other Casinos on the Water in Macau? No, in 2011, China presented its first ever aircraft carrier called the Liaoning. Taiwan has accused Beijing of cheating and stealing technology. And what did Ukraine do? Blamed China and raised an international scandal? Almost. She just kept silent. Our employees have been going to China for years to consult and build and were involved in the project in every way. Ukraine was well aware of China's plans and simply went to the meeting. - I also heard information that the Chinese also came, some delegations watched him. How true is this? So tell me. - There were delegations, yes, we had delegations. - Well, why didn't we agree? - I don't know, maybe someone didn't give permission to sell it. - Well, you don't know the sums that appeared? - Somewhere back then it was 600-800 million. &quot;If you want to destroy a small country, give it a cruiser.&quot; Winston Churchill. Have you ever heard this phrase? If not, the context is still understood. Cruisers are very expensive. And how can you disagree with Churchill? He had cruisers and he definitely knew the expendable part. But this phrase is an example of Russian propaganda. If you dig deeper - it is actually found only on Russian sites. And with a sneer about Ukraine. Search in the original language and it does not smell like Churchill. The expression is found in one Russian book and on the same dubious websites. But are cruisers really that expensive? Let's count. -How many liters do you need? start the engine? Because I know: a helicopter, when the engine starts, the blades spin: 70 hp. How many here? - There are 5 tons here. There are tanks of 40 to 60 tons each. -And the power reserve? - Well, a month. -Month? - Yes. -Oho. Well, refueling a ship to a full tank - has this happened at least once in history? -No no. As it used to be: solar was 5 kopecks, so it was cheap. - Well, do you need to start the engines in the winter? Because everything will freeze. - Well, you need tone 10 to warm up for the whole winter. - I read various information on the Internet, someone said that 25 million hryvnias are needed per year just to maintain the ship. What is the actual amount needed? -25 million yes, approximately so. -How much have you been given in recent years? - We were paid 75 million there. Well, it's just a salary. And taxes and everything else. - Well, debts, so I understand that they are still lingering? -So. Yezhel, Minister of Defense of Ukraine. Remember this face. The heyday of his career fell during Yanukovych's time. He was even an adviser to the president. In 2010, Russia wanted to buy the cruiser. Medvedev even made a statement that the ship will be completed in Russia and it will complement their fleet. Exact sums were not named. In 2011, Minister of Defense of Ukraine Yezhel met with his Russian counterpart. The latter said that he was waiting for an acceptable offer. Yezhel expressed confidence that the future occupiers would buy the ship. The Russian Minister of Defense either jokingly or seriously added: they are ready to take the cruiser, but in vain. Why should Yezhel be remembered? Because he is the one who openly worked for the enemy. For example, during his time, the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine transferred two Tu-95ms heavy bombers to a private company, which caused losses of UAH 24 million. Yezhel is still wanted by the SBU, and according to the latest information, he is hiding in the territory of Belarus. According to experts, Yezhel destroyed the structure of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which at that time were almost ready to use the NATO model. Despite the name on board, this cruiser is no longer &quot;Ukraine&quot;. Its first name was &quot;Komsomolets&quot;. Very original. Then Fleet Admiral Lobov in honor of a person who had nothing to do with Ukraine. Only after that did this modern name &quot;Ukraine&quot; appear, but it was like that until 2010. There were rumors that this ship was to be sold to the Russians, and the Verkhovna Rada voted to actually take its name, and since then it is only hull number 2011. - The cruiser &quot;Moskva&quot; also came to you here, it is here for the first time built? -So. - And I understand that you repaired it? Did you catch this repair? What was the general condition of the cruiser &quot;Moscow&quot;? - How can I tell you, he didn't stay with us for long. And at that time, the debts and the salary were not given to us for him when he was being repaired. - Just repaired, they left and that's it? - Did they wave at you? -So. - Russian handwriting. You can easily get lost on this cruiser: there are 1,600 rooms and only this corridor, imagine, its length is as much as 150 m. It actually runs through the entire cruiser. This is the room where the dishes were washed. Please note: the dishwasher, the year is a little faded, but it is clear that it is 1989. She is older than me. 155 kg. I think that my generation has definitely not seen such devices. This is Kubrick. In simple words - premises where sailors lived. 18 people lived on such a small area. Everyone has their own bed and a small closet, there is always a duty schedule and dozens of different rooms on the wall. Photo lab, library, bakery, even shoe repair. The phone no longer works. Under it is an interesting device for flashlights. This is actually an antediluvian power bank. But there was a place on the ship to which everyone knew the way. And of course there were long queues. So that you understand the level of comfort on this ship: come here, here we have, please note, a swimming pool where you could refresh yourself. Well, before that, of course, go to the sauna. In general, the sauna is still in absolutely normal condition, you can take a steam, relax and continue your business. This was a military object. - Did this sauna work for at least a day? -Of course. -Seriously? - The team was there and worked. -Normally. - I was there myself. [music] There's even an elevator here for your convenience for a second . As many as six floors. In order for you to understand the height of this ship, it is probably the best perspective I am standing on its deck. And this is one of them its lowest points. There are a lot of spans, floors, and everything really looks very large. The carpet on the wall indicates that the commander's cabin is well outdated, but at that time it had everything for a comfortable life. You could order something tasty with a button. You won't have to wait long, because everything is thought out and the buffet is just a few steps away. But you are the commander, you can afford food in the room. It was like that before. For years, the cruiser is a story of losses. Even to maintain it in this condition every year requires around a million dollars. At some point, money stopped being given and debts only accumulated. -Directors changed, there were no permanent ones. One came for two or three months or six months and stayed there for at least one or two years. - What do you think of the conditional China, which used to buy aircraft carriers from us and so on, is this ship interesting in principle? Has technology already advanced so far that, in principle, there is nothing for them to take? - If that's the case, just sort it out, but I think 500 million is not less. You can talk about Ukrainian corruption in each of our videos. But there is a mega-strange story, as if based on the notes of Pablo Escobar. Only Medalyn is changed to Mykolaiv, and the scale is much more modest. In 2016, the SBU detained Mykola Romanchuk. He is a hero of Ukraine, at one time he was the head of the Mykolaiv Regional State Administration and one of the directors of the local Okean plant. They were allegedly caught for a bribe of 90,000 dollars. Romanchuk was framed or not, but the story is really interesting. These are his four estates, they are connected by underground tunnels. SBU employees found several hundred thousand dollars, gold bars, awards from the time of Nazi Germany, antiques, ancient icons and a lot of jewelry. A few days after the search, Romanchuk was taken away by an ambulance, unexpectedly, right? The trials dragged on for several years, and in 2021 he was fully acquitted. Ironically, this year Romanchuk's estate was robbed by unknown persons. Restaurant. The most elite place on the ship. Here they received presidents, watched movies and tasted the most delicious dishes. - As the commander ordered, so it will be. So. And the menu was, yes, painted. There was fish, they used to go on ships as a business trip, then in the &quot;nose&quot; there was a barrel with herring and fish, whoever wanted ate it. - You still have a piano here. Did you invite musicians? - Or maybe there were musicians on the ship. - Is it working? - Well, there were evenings, what was there to do? Maybe they sang something. - It still works. Also &quot;Ukraine&quot;. So that you understand, even the chairs here are unusual: there is a hook under them where you can fasten your chair. There is a thing here that can be used to lengthen the chain. The hook goes in, you pull, and your chair basically has nowhere to go. - Is it not offensive to you that this ship, with which you work for so long, which you support, that it never sailed at all? - It's a pity, it's a pity. Yes of course. How many years has it been standing, so that it does not work out and is standing, and for what? How much money is lost, right? And no matter how much we serviced him, no one was responsible for anyone, did not pay, nothing. They worked here for two or three days, spent the night here. So we have to get off the ship there on the 20th, he has to do everything on the 20th. The guys are painting the hull, they don't have time to raise the waterline.. The ship has been lowered, it will leave tomorrow.. And how will the ship go without a waterline? This is red paint from below, then a white waterline and gray paint - the freeboard. What shall I do? Any. The boys throw two barrels, knock two planks, put a man on these barrels: one swims in the water with a brush in his teeth, one paints gray, one paints white, one paints ... what are you guys doing?&quot; The head of the workshop says: &quot;Ihoriy Matviyovych, all the best forces are abandoned, put the waterline in the water!&quot; He smiled so much, he said: &quot;You will pour it for the boys so that they don't freeze.&quot; - Well, you had such fans of your business here, right? - Yes, there have been cases where the guys have been there for 4 hours - they have to go home, the master comes running: &quot;Guys,&quot; he says, &quot;I can't get the guy out, I was painting tanks somewhere and he fell down somewhere down there, it's impossible to get the deputy head of the workshop.&quot; and we ran there to the ship, and there it is as high as we are somewhere saw: here, probably 10 meters down, there is such a ladder, a narrow passage. We climbed there, we can't lift it, it was already burning and there was this healthy shaft and it fell there, we'll take it, but it's slippery, we can't pull it. Somehow they lifted this mushroom shaft, my partner is holding it, how is he... can't it be pulled out? They gave me a hose, I tied it like this with a hose, took one hand and began to pull it up. And for six meters you have to pull to the top, such a narrow passage, he slipped, fell there again, then they lifted him up again. After that, I tied him by the hand, took the hose by the shoulders and dragged him along. Well, he wasn't very heavy, he probably weighed 60 kilograms. I dragged him up 60 m in one hand, I think he won't suffocate if I suffocate him now with this... I pulled him there, the boys already picked him up there, they picked him up in the car, here by ambulance - the director arrived, the ambulance took him away. And they cured him. The captain of the ship, the commander of the ship could sit here, the navigator could sit there. The command was sent from here, there was already evidence of such things, for example, there was low, medium, full speed, and there they had already worked on the engines and the engines were working there. Herocompass. Here it is on the right, on the port side there are two compasses. Well, it is there on that side, and on the other side. The roll, the ship's deferent, TK, such binoculars of 50x size, you can see that there was an attack on ours... - Is that where you had the landing, right? So. - And this ship, it can withstand storms of what level? I think he was also prepared for this? - It seems to me that he can withstand nine points. Just like that, because if we had six points against Kerch against Dolphins, then so be it. First of all, it rocked there, then they got used to it and nothing. 9 points for him is nothing. Well, if the height here is up to this place - how to look at nine floors. The portholes were all closed, water could not enter. The doors all closed, too, like on this one, for example, yes. Everything was rubberized, tested under high pressure, closed tightly, squeezed in two, water did not get in at all. Water could not get through the portholes either. These are Basalt-500 missiles, they fly at a distance of 550 km. This is a Soviet-made rocket. Supersonic One weighs 5 tons and they can carry a nuclear charge. - Do the Russians have such missiles now? - There is, yes. - Are they shooting at us? - Yes. -The same. One rocket weighs almost 5 tons, I read. - Well, about 5 tons. So. - How to download it there ? -Only with a crane and a special installation. - Have you ever had real rockets here? Only layouts? - Layouts yes. Well, they tried, how should they enter, that's all. Well, when the rocket's wings fold, when it takes off, the wings unfold. - How did we build a ship, a cruiser, and complete it, knowing that missiles are only in Russia and that Russia is such that it cannot, in principle, give them to us? Were there any agreements that we will finish there, Russia will give? How did it all change? - Presidents changed, power changed, because no one knew: today one says one thing, and the other says another. Could these missiles, for example , be removed from these installations, put some of ours? - You can, why not. - I heard the version that firstly it is very expensive and secondly it takes years to convert the ship for it. - Well, for each missile, of course, you need your own devices, your own targets, everything, your own antennas. For every device. That's why there are antennas, devices, everything. Of course, recycling is worse than starting from scratch. But was it possible to remake the ship for us, take away the weapons that are only available in Russia and install our own? According to Taras Chmut, it is possible, but this process will take around 10 years. And this with stable financing, which has long been forgotten here. -Someone decided that it could not be kept, then it was clearly possible to change everything and put your own missiles, your own installations, all the equipment, even though Russia supplied it. It was possible to do everything and it was possible to bet. So. - In what year did you see this ship in person for the first time? - But he was still standing on the slipway for sure. - In fact, since the very birth of this ship, you have already seen it, been near it. -Of course. If he was in 1985, in 1986 he started construction on the slipway, and I came in 1976. - And what will happen to this ship in principle? What is your opinion? He will never see the sea. - But no one wants him to see the sea, no one wants war, no one wants. Will make it a peaceful ship. Peaceful, peaceful hotel, hotel, museum. Well, just remove everything from here and it is necessary to arrange it in such a way as to please. It needs to be heated, how many regulars are needed for it? That's how many premises. Maintaining a museum is not only... It does not justify itself in any way. If the museum is a museum, how many people must be kept in order to maintain it so that it pays for itself. So? This museum is just like that, money is not thrown away. We need to remove this equipment, everything, pick everything up. Well, as a hotel - it fits. There is so much space, yes. There are also many options for what to do with the cruiser: the Chinese are the most creative in this regard. At one time, they bought the aircraft carrier &quot;Kyiv&quot;, also built in Mykolaiv, for pennies. First, it was turned into a theme park, actually a huge museum, visited by up to 40,000 people every week, and in 2011, part of the cruiser was converted into a luxury hotel. Most dishes of Ukrainian cuisine are served in the restaurant. The most original place to live, so that later you can tell your friends that you spent the night on a real military cruiser.