Thanks to Brilliant for sponsoring today's video. Falling into a black hole is a lot harder than it After all, aren't these the ultimate absorbers, out there? Shouldn't it be easier to fall into You might have thought so but, paradoxically, are one of the hardest places in so much so that during his lifetime, Einstein all. And not only that, but black holes speeds close to the speed of light. Want to I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching Astrum. turns common sense on its head, and uncover and matter. There is quite literally By now, if you have been watching the other videos black holes. They are incredibly dense objects that space curvature has become infinite. This once it passes the demarcation zone known move fast enough to outpace the acceleration So shouldn't it be that these objects would be gets steeper and steeper the further along it you the closer you get to the black hole's centre. You do speed up - so much so, that your speed in almost all circumstances, you will not find And this isn't me talking about some strange that will be observable from whatever frame of worry. Allow me to explain, through the real-world Black holes are, at their heart, very simple. In holes are said to be devoid of almost any feature, features of a black hole are usually fairly and that's about it. We discussed most of them As such, accretion disks are not actually holes can exist just fine without them, sitting when mass such as an unlucky star strays too it can be torn apart by the vast forces at work Strangely enough, though, this matter does not horizon. Instead, the matter usually coalesces black hole outside the event horizon. While can take a long time. Some accretion disks take So, what is going on here? Why does the matter that it comes up against a surprising principle First described by mathematician John Wallis Newton a decade or so later, the idea goes like of those objects, aka their momentum, collectively momentum bumps into a particle that is standing the amount of total motion for the two particles its own. No momentum can be lost. If you have it can only give itself momentum by firing Once you add up the amount of momentum imparted and the amount of momentum given by the and the downward momentum are equal, resulting This falls a little outside our expectations. walking around, seemingly without obeying this involved, this law is always kept. You would push against. Momentum imparted to the floor must but in the opposite direction - you just don't than you, the amount of momentum you give But what has this got to do Well, consider this next example, this time to who has their arms outstretched and is in their hands have momentum. They are moving However, then they tuck their arms close to start spinning much faster. This is a classic You see, the momentum in the hands is still trying travelling at. However, suddenly because it's smaller distance, but is doing so at the same to travel to complete one revolution, and as a This causes the ballerina to spin and slower when they stretch their hands out. Now matter does not fall in a perfectly straight will miss it slightly and will start spiralling hole's gravity. It now has angular momentum. As it it starts speeding up, moving at the same more and more angular spin the further down the You want to fall a little further in? However, unlike the ballerina, this matter has the universe can travel faster than the speed of what happens to our spinning matter as it falls the massive forces and curvature involved, it any faster. It's hit a roadblock. And because it the black hole. This has several effects. To begin All of this matter, spinning at such blistering starts bumping into each other. And when this very hot. Matter in a black hole's accretion disk This is enough to melt anything down to a hot the atoms involved, causing them to give off more This reduces their mass. Between 10 this way in the form of energy, which For point of comparison, nuclear fusion - the about 0.7% of mass into energy. Let that sink at 0.7%. How bright can a black The brightest such disks are known as quasars, times the total brightness of every star in the additionally, some of that momentum starts More gets shed by imparting it to matter as faster moving particles knock into giving them an extra push and slowing matter starts to lose its angular momentum and More momentum can get shed through one of the holes - their jets. We don't understand everything comprised of - and only a small fraction of black theories suggest that they are caused by magnetic disk, or even the rotational power of the black accretion disk and fires them out into space. It's fields form in keeping with Ampere's law, due to The power and shape of these fields are such north and south poles of the black hole for work in a way similar to the rifling on a gun Particles moving at near relativistic speeds we don't quite know yet why they go. Perhaps through the only gap that exists in the face of And when they go, they GO. Relativistic jets originate from, and are often millions if not catchy name of PSO J352.4034-15.3373 (PJ352-15 billion light-years away, albeit faintly. This very focused in one direction. In an effect known when the beam is pointed away from us, it is much galaxy. Here, very clearly, a relativistic jet is us. There is very likely another jet, but we can't It's worth noting that this energy does not nothing can escape from a black hole. Instead, the surrounding the black hole. And again, a lot about even observe them moving over time, but we don't Our understanding of accretion disks does not is kept - there is still some mystery about where is undeniable. Einstein may have been wrong - it But when some black holes are firing material for distances spanning galaxies, well... it's And once you factor in the force of matter that they attempt to shed their own momentum... perhaps If the concepts and science behind this series don't worry, it was for me too. One great way to be to use a platform I'm particularly fond of, interactively, and I've been enjoying This course has built up my knowledge of the "whys" behind some of the things I see around me. I know I've tried to do this with a real hose Brilliant explains it in a practical and visual to truly understand some of the more difficult and relativity. You can start for free, and learn get started, visit brilliant.org/astrum or click deal for my viewers, the first 200 of you will get Thanks for watching! If you found value in this future videos, please like and share the and if you want to donate and have your name on Find the links to that in the description!