Narrator: In 2012 and 2016, USA women's water polo Heading into Tokyo 2020, they But then the Olympic games were postponed. For over a year, the had no one to play. Maggie Steffens: I almost think of it as a grieving period. We had been thinking of this one thing, and it had been taken away from us. Narrator: That's team captain Maggie Steffens. This year, she's helped keep the team Adam Krikorian: Below the water is going to be very physical, a lot of grabbing, kicking, punching that you don't necessarily see. Maggie: You have to be able to do all this in the weight room, jump in wrestle with somebody, and shoot a ball past the Adam: Cover some ground and move forward. Narrator: We spent a week with the Olympic water polo team to see how it's training to defend gold. Maggie: We train six days a for about six and a half to seven hours. And Sundays are our one off day. We get up anywhere probably I think the secret to water back squats, RDLs, lunges. We're constantly throwing the ball, catching the ball, swimming, pulling. So we really need to We want to get strong. We the physical demands This is where the magic to get ready for Tokyo. Narrator: In the morning, and do drill work. Maggie: Water polo is a lot of always working. Adam: Two more laps before we partner up. Narrator: During on fundamentals like the egg beater. Maggie: Or treading water. the base foundation of our sport. It allows us to stay above Adam: The emphasis this So you'll see a lot of Adam: They're going to release back to that same spot. As they're releasing, I'm trying to get up in the lane. Now we're in maybe my which is passing. If you Maggie: We're passing in pairs, because every time you pass, you gotta be able to rejuvenate your body, receive the ball and keep doing it. This is our base position for She can use her core, her to execute a pass a shot. Adam: Being able to and being able to elevate takes a tremendous amount of leg strength. And one of the things that we leg strength is use these weighted belts. So these are probably about clipped on, they end up sometimes 40 minutes of passing drills. Right after you pass, to those strokes and then be Maggie: We swim head up see the players, see the to execute her next play. This is what we call our dribbling. So we put the ball in front elbows and our strokes to ball to float. You're using every single You can even see the concentration Narrator: At another station, the players are strapped into bands. Maggie: That band is attached to the wall, and they're going to be pulling using all of their strength people on the other side. a fun competition to see who's stronger. So if you just practice that's not really preparing moment in a game. So we incorporate conditioning bands to get ourselves tired, and then go and shoot and and execute. You have to be able to get Mentally, you have to be able okay, I can do this no no matter how my body Narrator: Next, athletes Maggie heads to treatment Common injuries that we see for water polo players is a lot of shoulders, a low back. Like any overhead athlete, repetitive movement in their plays a great toll on their body. Adam: We always begin afternoon practice with a team meeting. Maggie: In the afternoons, we tend to do a lot more gameplay, some sort of scrimmage. minutes. It's pretty lots of up and down. And Adam: Get up on your legs quickly. [whistle blowing] Adam: 2-0. Adam: Look. Make sure there's eye contact before you pass it. Adam: 7-5. Go. Maggie: You can see it very competitive. So underwater, the ref doesn't see, but somebody might have a hold of my suit. I mean you can see scratches, Maddie Musselman: I think that competition is really a huge part of our sport. Being able to play all these different teams that are Olympics. Adam: We would typically play in the calendar year leading Narrator: But with travel banned and competitions canceled ... Adam: This year, we've played zero. We haven't played a game Maggie: You can never During a game, you are juggling so many You're thinking about the other maybe the shot you just A scrimmage is the closest Stephania Haralabidis: because we have to be super physical with each we're teammates, we're a family, but when we're in the water, we're playing against each other. It's super physical and for us to win. Maggie: I think the challenges that come with being a water polo is just the demand -- But hopefully soon we'll So we won't be facing but we'll be a team facing opponent. And then I'm going to know wants. Rachel Fattal knows and can kind of supplement me there. She knows my strengths and Adam: The consecutive wins on our back. Anytime you have success, the and then you add the three letters USA, and that'll do it. But we That brings the best out of us as well. Maggie: I think if COVID is that we don't know Hopefully I'm healthy enough to continue playing this sport. But for now, I'm focused on Tokyo. Hopefully do well at the Olympics and hopefully bring home Maddie: I'm not worried about anyone.