Lemmy Badwagon, has been buffed. Thanks to the combo in the game. Oh [laughs] this looks so I'm pretty sure I've never used before. And we do helping to add to it because if I was just trying uh like Teddy Buggy and roller or something on new worst combo in the game, thanks to the wave I made a video all about the changes and new So in wave five, uh they have made some changes so because Badwagon got a giant buff and uh the metal with the old combo, you now get three which is huge! So uh now the mini turbo stat I'm actually just front running. Okay, and uh the if I stuck to the same combo as before which is can I do this oh no I couldn't get a mini turbo, this combo, because uh the Badwagon got buffed so Okay I have more than a blue shell lead, that is the Steel Driver is pretty much the same thing the two most important stat, but it is lower uh definitely I'm better than the Badwagon for sure, wow! I actually just won the very first race. Badwagon? It took hours. Okay I only won because Stadium. Oh I have history with this track! I have I have played this track with Lemmy and a bad destroyed, so let's see if this time goes not working but I'm gonna try it this time, oh that is crazy! [laughs] okay okay this is not off link? Link actually just fell off and that was I wanted. [laughs] oh don't you just love when All right, all right, all right there, all really coming in clutch here, making Wario of course I don't have defense items, so I'm do so. It's like boost panels here I can't Okay I I just did that wrong again this is the first race, and now I'm thinking this vehicle wow just getting hit, just getting the acceleration sucks! No this combo is bad! I Double item box fine- nooo Lemmy Lemmy why? coming back. This is- okay I need a shock Oh bullet please, four mushrooms! This is so bad, getting last. I'm getting- I actually got last! why I couldn't make a comeback last race, like have a very low speed stat. Also I got hit so many end. Okay it's not that low my speed is 10 out speed parts but Lemmy is the slowest character. So if I had used like Dry Bowser then my speed would And I actually have used the fastest combo All right all right we we made the shortcut. So have a clip of where you can easily see the speed about to get like a terrible spot and then I mushrooming. So yeah when you're in a mushroom, stat doesn't really matter, you need the mini trying to make a comeback you just need speed. oh my and uh the reason why this combo is this bad and uh like a decently high mini turbo, and the like no mini turbo. And you generally want to aim the game does not give you good stats or at least Um you also don't want to use like Bowser on the Okay but I think it still would be better and like what am I doing wrong? I don't even gonna be able to come back- what is this? What is need speed item! I'm too slow I have a red shell there's only 11 people in the room. No these I want shock! Even a golden but- wait why can't I stay in the What just happened to me? Why did I fall? Is it please don't get last! There's no way I'm getting oh no VR donation, you're welcome everyone. rollers uh I mentioned how I have a better but it's actually really funny. If you look at the glider speed, anti-gravity speed, it is even like it's not even like always just so uh here we're about to enter anti-gravity and honestly I can't really tell, but I know from so I'm gonna need to get my coins up here. the other coin, that is so sad. Oh hey, watch no! I couldn't in the air oh this is Grumble too low to do the motion glider stuff. Man my only chance here is bagging there's no much anti-gravity. I guess it makes sense why I worked, and I just missed all the items so we are Okay I need this double item box. Everyone- such a bad luck stat [laughs] I couldn't grab second to each go in a different direction. their star. I was trying to blow up that bomb Okay okay, oh oh that didn't hit me! All right All right all right we're in a decent spot Jeez, stop pushing me! [Music] oh my [laughs] glider! Are you serious? I'm only getting first bag on ribbon road but I know that without my do have one stat though there's one stat that I'm Trail trail trail! Ugh okay, so uh the stat Because invincibility is like a- oops oh what oh Okay so uh yeah invincibility is like the balance have high invincibility. Oh okay you don't fall there, for anyone else taking the shortcut. did that green shell hit me? What? Was that like spoke that into existence. Ladies and gentlemen, Okay I'm gonna get some coins [laughs] All right all right. Give me this coin, please! Coins are so important for me! This anti-gravity good either, all of my stats are bad! If you're bad, like they're all bad, all of them are bad. Okay. Uh let's use the star, and now now destroying people with the rest of the items for something funnier to happen. That sucks also, do that with the crazy 8, I like to just use the with the rest of the items because it's like a Okay let's not fall off here very very low speed but I can take that's protection! Hit somebody. You know what fifth place is fine, I don't lose bagging on I guess I'll do this one and I think track yet. [laughs] uh and so yeah the the reason of a mini turbo and more traction stat uh and and uh my speed is like decent enough Okay this boo, don't really need this. Oh six coins right there. Can I get another I'm like just far enough in the back to get good able to make this comeback. Uh I think this track here, sorry to if right just hit didn't mean be good for dodging the shock because I can boo Hmm okay I'm just gonna hold this. Orange I wanna use this golden mushroom at gonna wait. I think this could actually So I'm just gonna boo and then Okay so I'll be invincible for a long duration Okay okay okay come on come on big shortcut- yes! two golden mushrooms would be the best thing accident. Please no one red shell me. No I green Come on hit [Music] oh my ugh someone took to Get Hit by Green Shell stat, I would have won! the hot monster and uh I forgot what that vehicle that bad that's so funny. Nintendo made the and now so many more combos that you would not Um now I'm kind I'm kind of of the mixed opinion that there are more balanced combos but there's like if they started making even more balance because I still think there's value in having bad and you're way better than them, then yeah we it's just fun to have combos that aren't great on just how balanced it is because you just you just not use the bad ones right? Like there are in particular that are very very not balanced but worst ones. But if you do want to use the worst So yeah the fact that they're they're uh slightly better but they're still really So I really want to win another race, I feel like first room I was in. But I don't know the first I was getting like first and last but yeah my because clearly it's getting difficult now Okay I'm just gonna use my star right if everyone's out of the glider so- oh yes so far behind that I'm not sure if it's gonna like my life depends on it, because Oh I could guess second place. Someone All right we got Neo Bowser City, I feel like And actually let me know in the comments, do the base game tracks more on average? Because lot of my favorite tracks are the DLC tracks, so DS Mario Circuit, Mushroom Gorge, these are just more. Uh and so in that sense, I think the DLC are also in the DLC, like Sky High Sundae uh have to give it up to London Loop for being a the rest of them are just like okay. So yeah, let Hopefully those hit somebody. Oooh trailing oh blue shell, I love when people get hit by the blue shell in items anymore. Okay I have a boo, when should item box coming up soon and I want to be able triple mushrooms? Nice! Oh did I- no I stole a traction thing is like when you get blooper big deal on this track, uh uh wait I don't know traction on this track and there's tight turns What?! What I got these in fifth come on so I actually picked big blue myself, I think I my anti-gravity speed sucks [laughs] and the only my glider speed sucks. But uh I wanted to give any chance on this track, with how big of a a couple speed point difference, it is a huge gonna take this shortcut here. Okay making oh no that's actually fine. I guess this is right? Okay now this is bad, I wanted two items. can I get a purple? Nice. This mini turbo is like three points is such a big difference. I got tell from the color of your tires when you're Please yes a bullet! I'm gonna try This is not the best section to use a bullet none of this track is really good for using items passed by a star while in a golden mushroom. Fire! shell protection but I can mushroom right back great. No one hit me please, I'm in second last a lot of Yoshi's in this meta, that's unfortunate And the the thing about Yoshi is there's so many size as Yoshi, so I I don't know why everyone um oh geez! Oh I threw that by accident that's something else hit me, and I'll never know passes me. All right that that's great that's Oh the invincibility, that was crazy! Nooo Lemmy! Threats everywhere! Okay last I can comeback... no! No no that's fine, that's fine. Not again! keep getting hit? All right here we go on saw Bone Dry Dunes? I don't know if I've ever All right, so here we drift off of this just kidding. The traction on this over the place let's- yeah of course you'd And people are gonna get destroyed by those is so deadly. People run into that all the weird and I think people just don't think to just to not get hit by the bomb. Some people you just release A. Uh you you keep you will use your mini turbo but if you just Come on invincibility stat sure to help me out just try to get rid of my items, I okay, I'm gonna need this double I'm gonna go up here, my I'm getting so many shock dodges this race I got one this race, I was counting. And I I might no I don't think I got it. Oh I can use that to cure my traction problem, triple greens, I'm pretty protected. I think I These triple greens are pretty good, I do no we're getting rid of these greens I threw one Shock dodge to hit myself with a green shell, Yoshi Circuit, now here's the problem. I'm gonna just gonna go forwardd they're gonna take all turbo stat on this track to win like the speed I'm just gonna go around for coins here and I'm coins are really really important, and I'm gonna have my speed set up, so that when I use mushrooms mini turbo doesn't matter, then I will actually and see like it's such a curvy track you And I just don't have that, Got rid of all the items. You have to click want a bullet right now. Uh the thing with is you do really need a bullet, like the I just went over the bush! Let's get rid of these item box, so that I could get it! I'm just using the next item box, I am just cycling these items far apart, it doesn't another blue shell I could having a golden mushroom after this is pretty items the rest of this race [laughs] oh this going backwards that was ridiculous. I could have great this is great! That actually maybe is uh so you're supposed to use the bullet in the gets me around the final turn where it usually get dropped off. Yes yes! Nice! It actually piranha plant that's so scary! Yes it's gone Oh for how poorly that went I can't believe I I hope you trust it now. [laughs] things and I got third place [Music] I might just try to speed is the funny thing like the Steel Driver doesn't add up too much when you're being weighed They all are not really helping the speed let's throw that [Music] I'm gonna rely on someone else to hit the the more likely someone else is skilled enough to and get a little bit of a lead. Oh no Yoshi Oooh I'm gonna get past for sure. Somehow I'm not getting past, what are I hit them too [laughs] I slowed down specifically only way I could possibly win this, is if everyone and then I have another shot. Let's hit the cloud, me but, I had to do it otherwise when you're in before uh everyone else opens the bridge, which a massive shortcut except for you. Goodbye. I'm That strategy I said of just hitting everyone that's the only way I keep- that's the only what?! [laughs] oh this is too good! Yes! everyone else has the Get Hit stat. Let's hit this Please don't have two red shells. No way! with Lemmy on the Steel Driver! If anyone