A vicious militant is systematically The GAO is so brutal. If you kill everybody else, eventually, people stand back and say, An elite group of special forces to take the terrorists out. You do a series of devastating raids. They are led by a maverick general If you hit an organization you could actually cause them to collapse. It's a race against time. They must stop him Nothing is routine Iraq, April 2006. In the dead of night, a helicopter lifts off On board is a group of elite soldiers codenamed Task Force Black. On the way to our mission, I have no time to be nervous I mean, everyone is busy. They are bound for a house Their mission is to arrest a senior member Al-Qaeda in Iraq. You should always be expecting the worst. What if we get fired upon? What if the fast rope What if we get around and the helicopter is downed Their targets are ready to resist Almost as soon they were hit by a hail of bullets. The people inside They were armed and they were waiting. The team quickly killed the first militant and moved in There were half a dozen assault rifles. There were dozens of hand grenades. There were at least two, At the top of the staircase, one of the suicide bombers and detonates his vest. By now, the militants are fighting Two more appear on the roof The soldiers of Task Force Black are accustomed They face it on a daily basis. At the end of the day, we're going to win, Though the Special Forces This house holds the key to finding One of their captives tonight the leader of Al-Qaeda in Iraq. He has murdered and spread terror throughout the region. His campaign of violence is so effective. The US has created a black ops task force taking al-Zarqawi down. This was a guy In fact, he murdered many more people To understand how al-Zarqawi rose to become one of the most feared we must look to the town of Zarqa, Jordan, Al-Zarqawi was born here in 1966. Zarqawi's background He spent time in a Jordanian prison was a drug dealer, Accounts differ on whether he was a hard, However, it's certainly true and that he probably had some epiphany, some moment when he realized and that Islam was the answer for him. In 1989, to become a freedom fighter It is here that he meets his mentor He had come up during the course People understood his importance and he was clearly trusted by bin Laden He was well-liked and highly respected by the leadership. He was incredibly capable and experienced. Over the next 15 years, al-Zarqawi grows By 2003, he was in Iraq fighting The early months of the war as the old regime melts away. However, to start a new campaign of violence. When he was deployed into Iraq, we understood that this was a significant event. He had that unique combination of skills that would allow him to be a real force In the months chaos envelops the country. Al-Zarqawi takes full advantage of this, actively working to stir up the hatred the majority Shia Muslims He creates a militant group with the aim thus sparking retaliations It is called Al-Qaeda in Iraq or AQI. We mistakenly look at these organizations This is too narrow. These are revolutionary organizations They don't want to just spread weapons The idea is they can return a 14-century-old concept according to the Koran The question is, where can you find Afghanistan, Pakistan? Then you get a rock. The militant Islamists were prepared Quite soon they discovered that bombing things the International Committee and then moving on and police stations all those sorts of things, were actually far easier targets or American bases The base represented a hard, Yes, if you drove a truck up, who was checking passes, but you were unlikely Al-Zarqawi orchestrates A devastating series of attacks kills close to 200 people They shifted their targeting that could yield more spectacular results. Soon they were killing dozens of scores, maybe even sometimes over 100 people On the 11th of May 2004, A video of an American hostage The American, deliberately dressed is Nick Berg, a 26-year-old communications engineer Berg was kidnapped in Iraq and the video The video is one of those horror-show in which a long knife and you can even hear the sound It's a truly horrific video. However, the point is, in the original form it was released, it says, &quot;Abu Musab al-Zarqawi The CIA determines that al-Zarqawi himself is the hooded man wielding the knife. The guy was so brutal and so tough. It's like a mafia family If you kill everybody else, eventually, people stand back and say, &quot;A big dog on the corner in town, Zarqawi could see and what he was doing irreconcilable enemy of the Americans, this would bring him money for the jihad and attract volunteers In that calculation, he was right. He really put the crosshairs with all these spectacular acts Just the brutality and effectiveness and then the locals, led people to step back and say, &quot;we better let him roll.&quot; What the Iraqi Sunnis began to believe was that if the Americans or stop him, then perhaps he was predestined Berg's death is a signal to the world that al-Zarqawi's reign of terror However, secretly, designed to bring him crashing down. In Washington, has become a top priority and his inner circle of advisers. You come in on days when you feel Your thought is really quite simple: Let me get through today It wasn't that we were losing, and how will it end? Al-Zarqawi seems to have the power and yet somehow We really didn't know We also didn't know where he was moving, What most counterterrorism officials is that there are periods You go through periods and you're trying to understand Why does he seem You're trying to figure out However, anyone who's been in this fight You go through these periods, You must understand and how to take that away from him. No one even has a recent photo let alone any idea where he is. He doesn't use a mobile phone He only meets with a select group whose own whereabouts are unknown. He really was a ghost for a long time, but usually, by the time you got them, In September 2003, His name is Stanley McChrystal. He has radical new ideas and destroying AQI. General McChrystal is one of the most He is a driven warrior. He artfully looked Stanley McChrystal is a unique guy. He has years of experience at all levels, and is a former Ranger commander. You get personalities that are strong they're well respected. The force falls in, and their operational experience It's just the type of guy McChrystal of the Joint Special Operations Command JSOC has certainly been present They were in Grenada, Panama, Pretty much wherever there's a conflict, and they're always the last to leave. Formed in the late 1980s to coordinate the work JSOC controls the best of the best These are the so-called Navy SEAL Team Six, Army Delta Force, and the Air Force Active in every corner of the world, the men of JSOC are experts against hard-to-reach enemies. It was a very secret organization tasked with fighting against US enemies. Obviously, in the context of post 9/11, At the start of the war, and arrest the leaders the men famously depicted with Saddam Hussein as the ace of spades. Ladies and gentlemen, we got him. Within a year, However, this creates a power vacuum, and al-Zarqawi is ready In decapitating what some called they probably assisted By taking away the leadership figures the former generals, the key people, they left quite a lot with nowhere to go. McChrystal takes a strategic decision to abandon the hunt Instead, he will focus on just one man, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. Our commander gave us a big speech. The point of the speech and stop the violence was to find To get to al-Zarqawi himself, McChrystal knows he needs to build AQI. He sets up a large command center in the town of Balad, north of Baghdad. Then he invites all of America's many to set up camp there. From now on, and everything will be shared. When we started working I remember General McChrystal, coming into CIA headquarters and saying, As any bureaucrat, you sit back there &quot;Is this dog going to hunt, The idea is that however insignificant, will be brought here If McChrystal and his men they may be able and strike. The senior leadership understood you could not do so you had to go on the offensive. You would be shocked at the focus on the targets. These are the top ten. Here are the intel collection tasks. This is how we're moving against them. As information breaks on each target, you see the various forces, and in some cases the Iraqis, It's an unfolding story every day It never blinks and never sleeps. A key part of the plan is to pump each captured militant McChrystal sets up right next door to his command center. The interrogation unit was essentially composed our interrogation rooms, and our desks, Part of our facility and the rest was made up Using his huge store McChrystal unleashes in JSOC's arsenal, the special mission units These men will also work Historically, they ran only one Now they will conduct multiple raids I remember visiting Iraq They didn't go out just once at night, Oftentimes, the intelligence operators It all starts by piling and sitting in a very cramped space Then you're driving through the streets including roadside bombs and snipers. By the time you get to the target, you're usually already drenched in sweat, You're fired up, You needed to be intense are critical for winning the day. Nervous? Not really nervous. You're jumping out of the vehicle It gets really exciting when you have more than one house Oftentimes, these terrorists jump a wall, and into another house, Sometimes, it would up -Don't move! Every time a militant is captured, the members of AQI around him by reorganizing the entire network. They had information It was time-sensitive. That sometimes needed and maybe that would be the only chance of preventing a catastrophe or an act It's a cat-and-mouse game. The terrorists abandon safe houses, and recruit new men However, if McChrystal's people they will destroy AQI You take tactical information, like data you get off or a captured hard drive. You take detainee operation, what detainees are saying You put all this into a big hopper &quot;and our people have to be good enough &quot;of what that network looks like.&quot; Not only that, so that an operator You're doing this for years on end It's incredible. In a way, the most important idea and JSOC brought to this whole thing was that if you hit an organization accurately enough, and repeatedly enough, you could actually cause it to collapse. JSOC soon develops Every night, four black ops task forces performing up to a dozen raids On your feet. Go, go, go. Each group is assigned of US-occupied territory. To the north is Task Force Red, formed To the west, Task Force Blue, The center of Iraq will be the responsibility staffed by the US Army's most elite unit, These soldiers are joined from Britain's Special Air Service, the SAS, operating under the codename The SAS are the pioneers such as this daring hostage rescue from the Iranian embassy In particular, they are masters of surveillance There was undoubtedly a feeling among many that the SAS had skills that were quite unusual from the type of skills The American training had all been based around, leaping out of helicopters, Whereas the British special forces, because of their long involvement, but in places like the Balkans in the hunt for war criminals, had skills to do and groups of targets. This involved surveillance, creativity, and stealth, like figuring out onto a balcony They came up with all sorts of things. They drove around in Baghdad taxis, The American intelligence people during the early years in Baghdad, McChrystal and his team worked The supply lines Bomb makers are taken out of action. Mountains of intelligence They would do a raid or hard drives. Pieces of paper from people's pockets. They'd return and bring it who would be from the CIA. They would go through that information, and the Special Forces would go out again. This sort of continuous feed and loop Despite two years the ultimate objective, However, the task force one that could finally stop Strike teams from JSOC, are staging multiple raids This secretive organization from across the US military They are under the command General Stanley McChrystal. By the start of 2006, their system of rapid-fire raids is beginning to pull apart They are also getting ever closer Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. I'm going to target each discrete, and if I can begin suddenly the whole thing Whenever they get close to al-Zarqawi, he seems once again Yet he still retains the ability especially against so-called soft targets killing hundreds at once. In April 2006, al-Zarqawi released a video shows his face. [Arabic spoken audio] The fact that he was a charismatic led to this larger-than-life which I think fed his ego as well. He began believing his own press, He had little kids in the street because he was essentially invincible. The video urges al-Zarqawi supporters against their so-called enemies, Iraq's Shia community and the US forces. Just as that video hits the airwaves, one element of the JSOC task force is preparing the latest It's a team from the British SAS operating under the codename They are now concentrating It is a militant heartland and the soldiers call it The British Special Operations Task Force conducted a series of operations and they planned an operation which they called Larchwood 4. Operation Larchwood 4 is a dangerous to arrest a mid-ranking McChrystal's intelligence machine in the town of Yusufiyah. We put surveillance on that safe house and watched it continuously for, Then one day, and cars converged. We quickly sent a raid team to go out and capture the members The team knows that houses like this are often well-defended some wearing suicide vests. However, the house could also contain If they are a threat, then you engage. If they're not a threat, then you don't. You have to be able That's what Special Operations trains for. That's what they're really good at. However, just after 2:00 a.m., Task Force Black for the target house. Following them is a support group the Paras. They will form a cordon around the house to prevent reinforcements arriving targets trying to make a run for it. A short flight of just 20 minutes The SAS men realized that it was not going They thought they could hear sounds They approached very gingerly and to their surprise and satisfaction, found that there was a door Almost as soon they were hit by a hail of bullets. These people were heavily armed, and they were prepared in order to prevent the SAS The team quickly withdraws They must decide whether In some of these incidents they simply pulled back and killed everybody inside. For many different reasons, the SAS commander on the ground They wanted this person alive They felt it was worth trying and that's what they did. The air raid compounds. The objective and keep him on the defensive. The team encounters their worst nightmare, a suicide bomber. As one of the SAS men went up the stairs, The SAS man was blown down the stairs. Fortunately for him, He had cuts and bruises, but of course, Meanwhile, outside the house, They rain fire down on the special forces. Another man wearing a suicide vest, fled out the back of the building The outer cordon of paratroopers taking out the two militants They turn their attention hiding under the car, shooting him dead At the end of a terrifying 20 minutes, Inside the house, we captured The operation is considered for Task Force Black. The main target of the raid, Abu Haider, is in custody In addition, is recovered from the house. They sweep up everything Mobile phones, Then they take it away. As a result of Larchwood 4 and subsequent operations a huge amount of actionable intelligence When a JSOC analyst starts to probe one he discovers something extraordinary. Raw footage of al-Zarqawi himself Three traces of DNA found on it when it was sent back led them to conclude it was his laptop. The analysts realized that al-Zarqawi must have left the house We actually started to get excited because Zarqawi was in that house That's when we finally had the confidence They had narrowly missed their target, By the spring of 2006, the hunt for Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, has reached a turning point. An elite assault team JSOC, has secured a major breakthrough following a daring raid The momentum had shifted, and the raids of his network and so we had the sense As well as capturing of Al-Qaeda in the raid, JSOC soldiers discover a video al-Zarqawi. Hoping to tarnish his fearsome reputation, the coalition releases the full, It contains the familiar footage parading through the desert, However, it also shows a slightly overweight, Here's Zarqawi, the ultimate warrior It's supposed to be automatic fire, No sooner does he figure out to fully automatic, when it jams. The self-styled holy warrior He looks down, but can't figure it out. He calls his friend and get the weapon firing again. He also appears to be going into battle hardly the image of a man It makes you wonder. Meanwhile, deep inside the task force's interrogators We called the men we brought in We knew they were five but we didn't know what their roles were. They had an unbelievable story, that they were there to attend a wedding, and there were suicide bombers Little by little, and then use that information One member of the group, the senior AQI operative refuses to say anything. He was interrogated for about 20 days, and during that time, that he was there to videotape a wedding, even though For weeks, rotating teams of interrogators pleas for cooperation, Eventually, they decide he will not talk and arrange to have him sent Abu Ghraib prison. I decided to go in and interrogate him I didn't have permission to do that, but I felt that he could provide for finding Zarqawi. That conversation started with nothing It started with a friendly conversation what his life story was, and how he came to be sitting It was about knowing each other. Over the course of 5.5 hours, Matthew Alexander discovers Abu Haidar He believes he has beaten and should be recognized for it. Alexander obliges him. I would constantly stroke his ego, making him believe in the fallacy who could affect the future of Iraq. In the last 15 minutes, I offered him the chance to work with us in a secret program that didn't exist, in which he could be a person He decided to work with me. Over the next few weeks, Alexander and coaxes more and more information all on the pretext of proving his worth I said, &quot;All we need &quot;that'll convince my bosses.&quot; He said that every month Zarqawi who was our detainee's best friend. It's the piece of intelligence For years, al-Zarqawi Now, at last, and take him out. The intelligence and military effort was beginning We knew that Zarqawi We knew that he was going to visit him, Using this information, JSOC quickly traces the spiritual advisor Using high-tech systems as well as old-fashioned they create what McChrystal calls Their target is never out of sight. Abu Hider tells Alexander they need to look for one particular sign. We would know because he would change cars, Whenever he got in this blue car, Once again, on a building in Baghdad. Lo and behold, that every few days They used predator as it went up the road to this place where indeed By now, pictures from the drone to the JSOC command center. Everyone, is watching in silence gets out of the car. Then, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi Once the blue car arrived at the house, helicopters took off immediately It was about 20 minutes away. A discussion is held Is it worth trying to capture al-Zarqawi Is it better to wait until nightfall If they strike now, they risk a heavy firefight Worse, al-Zarqawi If they wait, he could easily slip This could be their one and only chance There was a period of time I was watching it live on a video McChrystal believes He can't even wait 20 minutes for the assault force He opts for another plan designed to take al-Zarqawi He calls up two F-16 fighters We expected to watch the helicopters which we typically would do, but instead, the house just exploded. They knew he was in the building, and they made the decision to prosecute the target They didn't even feel there was time to get one of their special ops to go and raid the building. Instead, they simply decided which is what they did. Just minutes after the bombing, Incredibly, they find al-Zarqawi A soldier grabbed him, It was somewhat sweet justice, as Zarqawi's last image The day following the raid, the US announces to the world Good morning. Now Zarqawi has met his end, and this violent man Pictures are released of his dead body Zarqawi could be responsible by starting the civil war in Iraq, so I don't think It's a devastating blow The man who was thought However, the work is not over. With the intelligence that was collected of al-Zarqawi's compound, another series of raids is launched, and AQI starts to fall There was a good deal of chaos What you do is, you're also collecting intelligence What that allows you to do the people around him become Killing him undoubtedly had an impact. There was a lot of exploitation A lot of material was recovered, and we can see that little by little, they successfully took them down. Zarqawi was evidence of a bigger strategy that was getting By the summer of 2007, You do a series of raids and they never really came back Today, is a group of special forces operators and executing dangerous for the United States. The black ops it conducts have continued to strike and other terror groups around the world. In 2011, it was JSOC that planned to take down the world's most wanted man, Osama bin Laden. You have to win. At the end of the day, you're going to do