Did you know that reinforced concrete buildings into a ticking time bomb? The buildings won't explode, but after many of those buildings will need But there is more, the material of entire beaches and responsible But there might be solutions, which have In this video, we'll discover and reinforced concrete. We'll learn about some cool little known more sustainable and far more durable. And, why modernist architects fell in love and how this material's redemption could and cathedral builders already used. In other words, I guarantee that able to explain some of the biggest the solutions to get around these. So let's get started. Concrete. The construction industry loves it. The material is just so convenient all kinds of forms, giving designers a to create ever more crazy buildings. Every second, all around earth, That's almost 48 fully loaded trucks. Modern concrete consists of four elements. Portland cement, aggregate or The cement is the most important the aggregate and sand together. After the mixture is poured, a it becomes a solid material. Concrete, when it is used bare, is Which is what gave us the word Brutalism. The name for a certain sure you all enjoy seeing. The first forms of primitive mortar construction known to this day, Gobekli But it was the Romans who started using a material they loved to use. In the Pantheon for example, a But the Romans used this So, why exactly is that You see, concrete is strong when it is But when you place concrete pulled apart or bent, it is weak. The Romans used concrete in such a was used, by using the geometry of For example, they would use arches the walls and pillars, which can But nowadays, due to a use it in a very different way. I'll return to that in a minute. After Roman times, a long period followed It was almost forgotten. In the 1700s, innovation picked up again. And then, in 1824, a massive invention of concrete we know to this day. Portland cement. This new, much harder type of limestone and clay that was burned But this invention only brought us a It was one more invention that and versatile, thus completely And that discovery was reinforced gardener called Joseph Monier. Remember how I mentioned the Romans And that later we would start Well, when you embed steel rods stretch and bend much better, the to take on the tension forces too. In short, a new super material was beams and plates that could hold weight bridges or floor plates in buildings. This property was, until materials, like wood and steel. Before, if one used rock like materials rely on either heavy stone lintels or Those solutions worked perfectly But with his new invention, it slam a reinforced concrete slab You now had a cheap, rapid way Reinforced concrete It really did change how the face way how we span distances, and giving But this new invention A problem that not many One that would prove to be the Before we cover that problem, I'd I'm working on a new, handy overview of For this purpose, I use Squarespace, Squarespace makes it incredibly It allows you to build one either the many beautifully designed Designing your website is super And the all in one platform campaigns to analytics. Check out squarespace. com for a free trial. And when you're ready to com slash TheAestheticCity to purchase of a website or domain. And now, let's get back to it. Like I said, modern concrete Portland cement, water, But in reinforced concrete, Steel rods are placed in the concrete, concrete its tensile strength. This creates a first potential of reinforced concrete buildings. And that problem is oxidation, or rust. As you might perhaps know, when oxygen, it starts to oxidate, or rust. And when steel rusts, it expands. The expansive force that presses that it leads to little cracks. These cracks damage the structure, but This in turn speeds up the rusting bigger cracks until the structure This vicious circle of concrete leads to the limited lifetime of areas near the sea, as the salt in But water rebar, right? What if there's cladding around the very deep inside the concrete, then water There are various ways in which Multiple chemicals and natural damage reinforced concrete. I won't go into too much We have carbonation, the feared attack, the formidable alkali aggregate cycles, each leading to cracking and The more bare the concrete and the closer It is possible to slow down these One way is to increase Cover is another word for the the surface of the concrete. The further the chemical reaction or take for the concrete to deteriorate. Problem solved, right? Well, not exactly. To make sure this cover is always know how much cover is needed. In the European Union, there all countries have these norms. Contractors need to cautiously follow all Even the best contractors deal with And some contractors don't Corruption, ruthless profit seeking and So, in many countries and in many buildings will be much more common. And then we're not even talking about Even buildings constructed following contractors often aren't built to last even though they could last longer. The economical lifespan of most enough to repay the initial investment. And this is what many building After the design lifespan of 50 years, the building to see what happens. Sometimes, the rebar has In that case, a thorough building is simply torn down. In the best case, the building even longer with good maintenance. But after the initial 50 years, due to rebar of many buildings will have begun Many of these buildings weren't lasting in the first place. They were built as an The will to save these buildings are often just demolished. Even if they are refurbished, what does to every building, every 50 years or so? Personally, I believe we should term to be truly sustainable. Think lifespans of a That sounds radical, I know, but if we behavior would be radically different too. Rebuilding buildings every 50 mentality of, oh, we'll soon tear it responsibility to make it really good. We start ignoring factors like It's our short term mentality that But there are more problems, Anyone who wants to reduce greenhouse the key ingredient of concrete, greatest causes of CO2 emissions. Up to 8 percent of total worldwide production of Portland cement. And that is just mind bogglingly much. Much more than aviation for example. This emission is caused by where limestone is heated to high it into clinker and CO2 gas. So if you want to reduce I won't go into too much detail of raw materials, alternative fuels efficiency, and capture the carbon. For some purposes, we could even used before the advent of Portland but less energy intensive process. However, the easiest and probably to use less concrete. Problem three, impact on the planet. Carbon emissions aren't the only One thing many people overlook is the many their own hole in the ground, so to speak. All the ingredients of concrete, like be extracted somewhere, and sand, for Desert sand, which is plentiful, it is too rounded and polished This rounded sand makes concrete Now, sand riverbeds, as this that help it to bind the mortar. The scarcity of sand The immense Chinese and Indian so much sand that prices have skyrocketed, Sand mafias use unethical practices Caribbean to Africa to Asia. Riverbeds in sensitive ecosystems are being stolen, often in Our modern lives are literally concrete is making this worse. Why are we so in love For that, we need to travel back to industry continued to reform society formed that fully embraced new industrial Modernism The modernists embraced others, because of its ability to Forms that broke with the traditional. Forms for a brave new world. Because that's what concrete With reinforced concrete, architects defy the laws of physics, or create plates cheaply and efficiently. Buildings now turned into reinforced as cladding, as these were the which modernists loved so much. Instead of heavy but durable low skeleton now supported everything. This reduced the lifespan of buildings, buildings was now tied to how long While before, as we already saw, their form, which led to buildings Apart from that, modernist exposed concrete in their designs. Just take a walk outside, go to and you will see it everywhere. When concrete is exposed to the its degradation can happen much faster. Aesthetically, the stained, any place look miserable. A final effect of the embrace of that it helped cement today's construction Pun intended. And as a sad side effect, craftsmanship use of traditional construction materials. Today, we have to deal with the results. Cities that look grey, with countless and a construction industry so dependent to change, even if they wanted to. Contractors have mostly lost the know how sustainable methods and the time tested these might be exactly the solutions So, isn't there any hope? Well, happily, there is. Because the laws of physics don't use concrete in another way, making We can do this in two ways. One is to build like we did forms like arches and domes. The advantage is that it's very beautiful. But the disadvantage is that it's not giant barrel vaults for every project. Sometimes it's very handy to have a distances, but even then one can use That's where a Swiss company comes the cathedral builders by using plate that doesn't need any steel The floor plate is basically a very through ribs down to the corners. Making smart use of the compressive still need to be inserted in some form I'm very curious to see if their Instead of concrete, we could One modern material that has become timber, which is now being used Although it is supposedly Then there is natural stone. One of the funny things about concrete is up to be crushed, burned and used for the long lasting and low emissions building When it is sawed in square chunks, strong and durable buildings. And we're not talking about marble here. A lot of stone might not always be pretty But it's often good enough Using limestone like this means it intensive burning process, except for And it also doesn't need as And finally, limestone can be truly Or the Belgian blue- or hard stone. So what should we do? If we want to build sustainably, forces of nature, and that we build of using materials with hidden We can still work with the forces sustain through their geometry. In that case, we can even There is a reason that the Pantheon Also, using these efficient forms, to incredibly beautiful buildings. By using less concrete, or using it in CO2, we can also save fragile beaches reduce the power of an already far too importantly, we can start building buildings and infrastructure again. And that, in the end, leads to a What do you think? Should we indeed look for Let me know in the comments. If you liked this video, you will love King Charles that defied all the odds. Thank you and see you next time!