Hello, this is Yamato. For this bus trip, we loaded the bus onto a ferry and crossed the ocean. However, the place we crossed by ferry was hit by a cold wave. The inside of the bus freezes due to the unprecedented blizzard and cold waves. So, what will happen to us in this cold wave? We built a camping bus by modifying a used route bus.Currently , my family and I travel around Japan with our cats on the bus. We would be happy if you could experience the seasonal scenery of Japan with us. So we arrived at the ferry terminal. Staff: There are parking slots number 10 and 11 on the other side, so please straddle them and park. I was instructed to park about 3 meters in front of me, so I followed them. ``KOKUDO KYUSHI FERRY'' Besides us, cars gradually gathered at the ferry terminal. The ferry we are about to board has arrived. When it was boarding time, we loaded the bus onto the ferry according to the instructions. I've loaded buses onto ferries several times, but for some reason I always get nervous. I always think about this, but what happens if something happens to the vehicle and the engine won't start after loading onto the ferry? I worry about that. Let's move to the guest room. It is a boat trip of about 1 hour. It travels on one of the few national highways in Japan that are above the sea. The Shikoku region came into view. Hazuki: Let's go, dad! Kenji: Okay, let's go! Misaki: Choco? Were you sleeping? The black cat Choco was sound asleep. Now, we have landed in Shikoku. First, let's move to a place where we can take a break today. We arrived at a large roadside station. good job! It's a beautiful sunset. But the forecast is for snow starting tomorrow. good night. next morning. As expected, it was snowing as predicted. The snow was gradually increasing in force. It's snowing lightly. This area is famous for producing mandarin oranges, and you can see a mandarin orange field on the mountain slope in front of you. It's a beautiful scenery with a light layer of snow. There was a small restaurant called ``Doya Shokudo'' inside the roadside station where you could eat seafood. Here you can eat seafood bowls with various kinds of fish. The two of us had the ``Makanai Seafood Bowl,'' and our daughter had the children's seafood bowl. This &quot;Makanai-don&quot; is served until 10 a.m. and is very reasonably priced at 600 yen. My daughter's seafood bowl is also gorgeous. Mix soy sauce with wasabi and eat. It was fresh and very delicious. Thank you for the meal. There was a seafood market next to the restaurant. Freshly caught seafood at very reasonable prices. Meanwhile, it was snowing even harder outside. We decided to move to a place where the snow would not affect us. Kenji: Snow is accumulating on the road! Our buses have studless tires, so they can run without any problems. As you enter the tunnel, the snow on the windows begins to melt. After driving for a while, I was able to reach a place where there was no snow. I can't run any further today, so I'll take a break here for safety. It was snowing unexpectedly. I didn't think it would snow that much at this time. Snow is gradually accumulating. Within a few hours, the area was covered in white snow. For safety reasons, I can't run any further, so I will sleep here. Deep, cold snow hits the bus. The temperature outside quickly dropped to -1 degrees. Condensation occurs due to sudden temperature differences. Even in times like these, my daughter comforts me. Now, it's time to prepare dinner for today. I don't use a large pot in the car, so I break up the pasta. At the place where I usually take a break, I check to see if there is a restroom and if it is clean. However, it was very difficult to confirm that today. Even though the car was stopped for a short while, there was a lot of snow near the door.On a cold and harsh day like this, I make cream stew. Mix the butter and cod roe with the pasta and season with soy sauce. A cream stew that will warm your body is ready. &quot;itadakimasu&quot; After all, this alcohol is delicious! delicious! ! Town announcement: Please be careful of fallen trees and broken power lines due to snow. Kenji: It's snowing quite a bit! Misaki: It's been a while since we've had this much snow. Kenji: I never expected it to snow this much when I came to the Shikoku region. &quot;Gochisosamadeshita&quot; It's going to be very cold on the bus tonight, so I'll prepare a sleeping bag. All you need is a sleeping bag, a futon, and a blanket. Kenji: I'll turn off the lights. next morning. Outside temperature -1.8, inside the car 1.8. The windows are frozen and won't open. FF heater ignition. He seems to be curious about the pure white world. Damn the ice thawing spray , my shoes are frozen and stuck. It looks like the temperature near the door has dropped to below freezing. The door was frozen and very difficult to open. Apparently the snow that had collected in the corner of the door had frozen and trapped us. It's frozen. It doesn't seem to be snowing anymore. It's frozen in the parking lot. Antifreeze was sprinkled on the road last night, so there seems to be no problem with driving. However, I will not rush and take a rest in the car until the temperature rises. &quot;itadakimasu&quot; is delicious. Apparently, the mirrors on the bus had also frozen before I knew it. It's starting to melt. The sound of ice breaking when a heavy bus passes by is powerful. Thanks to the studless tires, I was able to escape without sliding all the way to the road. I also carry a chain just in case, but it didn't seem necessary. Even so, I wondered what would happen at one point due to the unexpected cold wave, but I'm glad the cold wave didn't last. By the way, I created a separate channel dedicated to car camping and camping. I would love to share the beautiful scenery and peaceful moments with you, so I would be happy if you could subscribe to my channel. See you again on our next trip.