In today's developing society, spending money has become an indispensable activity in human's life. People with different nationality, race and language cannot resist the temptation of high quality products. People are immersed in the prosperity and the beauty of products. Probably it takes a long and challenging journey to figure out our true internal requests. Today's Monday, you can buy one and get one free. VIP customers can get an 80% discount, with a scorecard, ten scores can be exchanged for one yuan. For today's special coffee, buying two cups can get a five yuan discount. So we can buy two cups of coffee with one yuan? Excuse me, your coffee is done. Many people show off their wisdom buying good things with cheap prices. Other people express themselves in the pursuit of special aesthetics. Try on the dress. If you wear them together, they look more beautiful That suit looks great. I'm sorry, this is my working uniform. Want to sell it? There is a kind of people who treat products as a beauty trip. This chandelier feels so fashionable. A perfect symbol of natural and artificial combination. This one is exactly the one that our Gao's real estate should have. I want to buy it for the house sales department in our new buildings. This one. President Gao, it's too expensive. If the administrative board's chairman knows... What I buy is going to be our history. Discussing the price in front of the time can't deserve this space and time challenging beauty. Trust my aesthetic taste. After buying these, take them back. My journey has just begun. Okay. Oh my God. So holy and beautiful. The technology must be so advanced that can express this realm of the gods. I must have it even in exchange of my life. Everyone in the Internet era is our potential customers. Light up their aspirations, satisfy customers' needs, everyone can become our consumers. I couldn't agree with President Yan more. Couldn't agree more. Excuse me, who is Mr. Yan Lei? There is on-time package portal. It's mine. Thank you. So I have anonymously put an order for a package to be sent here to the UK's logistic headquarters. It's supposed to be here at twelve o'clock noon. Sorry Mr. Yan. It's three minutes late. It's the failure of our carrier department. Actually it's not three minutes late. According to the correct time, it's twelve o'clock. So how a clock in an office is three minutes faster? It's not well prepared. Tell me who's responsible for this? I'm sorry Mr. Yan. I'll do it after we finish. Is it our package? In a plastic bag? Can you guys tell me is it a piece of a rack or is it supposed to be a Giorgio Armani jacket? It's... It's because the consumption has exploded, delivery volume soared that's why we have to neglect the package. I don't want to hear excuses. Service is our key to success. If the service is not in place, even good marketing is zero Yes, yes, we will make it right. And for the next time, we'll definitely learn our lesson. There's no next time. From tomorrow morning, you'll go to the logistic warehouse, and start from the bottom again. And I will keep it as my souvenir. President Yan. Li Mingche of Chenming department store has also come here. Maybe he also wants to win the Chinese agent of DKK. DKK is an internationally known brand. Although we are specialized in e-commerce they are physical shopping malls, they surely want to take this big piece of cake. What time do you arrange for the negotiation with DKK? Two o'clock in the afternoon. There's one hour left. You can go to the coffee shop firstly. Coffee shop? Behind DDK headquarter there is a coffee shop that is not crowded. No need to worry, it's very quiet. President Yan, please go this way. Mr. Li, on this whole road there are stores of brands under DKK. You want me to walk inside with you? No, thank you. Global popularity of DKK is very high, which can enhance the consumption of Chenming department stores. So I must win the exclusive agent rights of all its trademarks. Hi. Hello, sir. Can I help you? I'm just looking. This is our new collection. Take your time and look around. Okay. What about those two shelves? These two shelves have special discount. Do you want to have a look? Why do you have discount when you can sell like a hot cake? There is always lack of supply on our new collection so we have special discount for our old ones. So when the new collection comes, the past ones will not be able to sell well? Yes, that's possibly the case. Okay, thank you so much. Thank you. Pure cashmere, all hand-made. There's also a fifty-percent discount. It seems I need to by some. This type of all hand-made may be using needles to stabilize four points not that the seam is sewn by machine. Moreover, this is not pure cashmere. At least 20% it is modal. This product is on sale 80% cashmere 20% modal. It's extra soft and comfortable so that's what you can get. It's not pure cashmere, so who's going to buy it? I won't buy it. Actually 70% of worldwide cashmere is made in China. Inner Mongolia, Xinjiang, Qinghai, and Ningxia. Their quality is always the best. Therefore, if you both like pure cashmere, our domestic products are a not bad choice. The most popular product of this shop is not pure cashmere but baby goat cashmere. Baby goat? The one taken from baby goats, in which the young goat cashmere produced at twelve degrees north latitude of our Inner Mongolia has the same good quality. Relatively speaking, baby goat cashmere is softer and more comfortable. This is their top product. Really? Where is it? Over there. Have a look. All of these. All these top products have no discounts. However, they are all the best among cashmere products. They are all warm, smooth and soft like baby skin. When going shopping, don't just look at the label and price the product's true quality is the most important. Thank you so much. Thank you. Have a nice day. Have a nice day. Her. Hey, something's on your jacket. Where is the pigeon dropping? How can I clean it? It's my new outfit today. Okay, let me help you to grab some bags, okay? Stop. Stop. Come on. Stop. Come on. Come on. Give my bag back. Stop. Help. Somebody help me. Don't move, give me the bag. Don't move, give me the bag. Stop. Don't touch my bag, asshole. You should be nice. Thief! He's the thief's accomplice. Are you Chinese? Yes. What's the matter? This is your bag? It's not mine so it's yours? I need to tell you we are both Chinese so I advise you to give me my bag right now. Otherwise, I'll call the police and you have to compensate for all damages while I was running to chase you. Give me back. How can you prove that it's yours? It's mine. Why I need to prove it? Are you crazy? You can't go. You dropped my bag I haven't checked it. Hands off. You were caught red handed and you still have this attitude, so I have to call the police. You can't go. Where are you. Such an athlete among pickpockets. Fortunately I can find it. Otherwise, wherever you go I can definitely find you. Where's my purse? Oh my God. Cash and cards are all in the purse. Thief. Arrest the thief. President Yan, what's the matter with you? Xiao Chen, is there any clothing store near here? There is one shopping street behind here. But it takes at least half an hour. Otherwise I call DKK firstly, and tell them we'll a little bit late. No way. You can wear mine. It's not so good... Open the trunk. Oh yeah, there's one suit in here. But can you... wear it? Those thieves are so fast. They disappeared on the blink of one eye. How unfortunate I am to encounter them. You are thieves! Stop. Give me back my money and card! Stop! You are a asshole thieves! Dare to take my money. Stop! Oh my God, isn't it the bag aunt Yan has been longing for? Unbelievable it's here! Why would it appear in this difficult time. What can I do to afford this bag. No, no. If I miss it I can never buy it. Hello. Please wrap up this bag for me. Of course. Would you like to pay by cash or card? Can I pay by phone? Sorry. We only accept cash or credit card. But I lost my wallet. Can you keep this for me I'll try to find my card and come back? I'm sorry. This is our lastest summer product We can't hold it for you. Company's policy. This one, have you got one in stock I'll take one, please. I'm sorry. This is the last one. This is what I saw firstly. Miss, are you going to take this bag? My wife insists on taking this one. Of course, I'll buy it. Please just hold it for me. Just a little while. I promise I will be back as soon as I get my money back. But company's policy. I can't hold it for you unless you pay a deposit. Can I take my necklace as a guarantee? Take this card. Hold this beautiful thing for a beautiful woman. Okay, thanks. I'll pay the deposit for the laly here. Thank you. Miss, would you mind filling this deposit form? Thank you. If it's convenient, can you give me your address? I'll pay you back. It doesn't matter. Once you pay, the deposit will be refunded. Thank you. Where is he? President Yan. President Yan. This is a restaurant. Where do you want to go? President Yan, this is a kitchen. DKK is on the top floor. Hold it. President Yan, what do you want to do? Implement emergency response plan. This one... Let's go. Okay. President Yan, it's so coincident. Conference of domestic retail industry has just finished. You came to London so fast? Right, president Li also doesn't come late. There's no other way. If our conventional shopping malls don't go quickly, we will be out of date. We are specialized in e-commerce so we don't know much about conventional shopping. You're always modest, President Yan. Shopping malls which want to innovate cannot stand still but to learn more from e-commerce. E-commerce is different from conventional shopping malls. What can you learn from? Unless we step out of the border and compete once. Hello, welcome. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. This way, please. In fashion kingdom like London, DKK has been a company with a rich history with high-end best-selling brands thanks to our unique style and fashionable view. We read your proposal. We have interest to bring our products into Chenming department store over China. To be precise, we don't want to just go in we also want to get the monopoly. Our Chenming department store want to present all of your products in China. You want to present all of the products? We have an online shopping site about 50 millions we work with 8000 brands. In these six past quarters, this is the real gross. This is our real ability. In 1990 my father founded the first Chenming department store in China and then we have opened twenty-seven chain stores. As you can see our presence in the most populous areas of China. Chenming's biggest advantages are that we have strong sources and contact and effective management. We can quickly increase the brand influence. And we planned to launch our shopping column in big social media, creating the hottest shopping topic. As we all know, there are many limitations of traditional retail stores but online, there's no limitation. You can buy anywhere anytime. The most important one is that one day, our system is able to reach one hundred million views. That can be said, everyday, DKK will have one hundred potential clients every single day. With Chenming department store, we have absolute confidence and ability give our customers unique shopping experience to let each customer entering Chenming department store see the soul of your products. What is more important is that Chinese e-commerce continues to thrive with policies along the side. I believe there are unlimited chances for our cooperation. If that cannot impress you, nothing will. What is this kind of assistant? Why she has to be on the flight so quickly? I shouldn't have her go back before me. Now thieves are nowhere to be found. I don't even have anyone to give me money and bag. What should I do now? By the way. The guy that paid my deposit, do you know his contact information? I'm sorry. We are not allowed to give out customer information. But how can I pay him back? It's not easy to find him again. Don't worry. We can refund the deposit and return it to his credit card. Okay. Both Chinese, but why the gap is so big? In important moments, dad is still there for me to turn to. I have to buy this bag at any cost. I can't definitely fall short of her kindness. Vice President Jiang. Gao Yang, your father is missing. What? Say it again. There are some problems with the company. Your father also disappears. Hello, Xiao Chen. Hello, President Yan. I've finished a list of brands under DKK that you told me to investigate. Send it to my email. Book me a flight to go back today. Any time. I'll be at the airport in one hour. Today? Is it too hurry? If we tend to compete against each other, I and Li Mingche have to compete for even a second. Okay. I'll do it now. What? There's only the last flight? What? There are problems with the Internet? Then call the airline directly now. I'm nearly reaching the airport. Hello. Is it the airline? I want to book a flight ticket to Shanghai tonight. I'm sorry, I'm having very urgent things to do. Your net system has some problems What? It can only be booked at the airport? Alright, thank you. This... Hey. Are you kidding me? Excuse me. I called earlier. Is there any ticket to Shanghai? Just a moment, please. Let me check it for you. Okay. Lucky for you, someone just made cancellation. Great. Thank you. Excuse me. Do you have any ticket to Shanghai? I'm sorry, this lady just takes the last seat. Would you like to book a seat for tomorrow? It's you? It's you? Indeed as expected the mills of God grind slowly but surely. Give me my money back. If you continue to accuse innocent people I will sue you for defamation. If you were not a thief, what would you run for? A well-dressed guy is not necessarily a good person Not to mention an evil disguised in a human. Moreover, if you were not the thief why wouldn't you help me to arrest these guys? I totally don't have time to say meaningless words to people without brains like you. Who do you say doesn't have a brain? If you had the brain would you see me as a thief? Haven't you lost your purse? How would you pay for the flight ticket? I'm sorry. Can I pay via phone? I'm sorry. We're a foreign airline it's temporary impossible to pay online. We only accept cash or credit card. Coincidentally, this air ticket is going to be mine. Hey guy, Why do you take advantage of people's danger to take advantage of the situation to hit people to take advantage of the situation I really need to go back soon. Go back to go shopping? I'm having important business stuffs. You have important things to do, I don't? Moreover, I came here earlier than you so is there any matter if I take the ticket? Absolutely. As long as you pay for it. I... I'll buy this ticket. Use this to pay for me. He lost my bag, so he must compensate for me. You even dare to make arguments? Please be calm down. You are both Chinese, which is a good destiny. Destiny? It's bad luck to see her. I'm having the worse luck. Please negotiate. It's nearly the time for boarding, if you still continue being like this, both of you may not go. You are as stupid as to break things when you can't make it? You lost my bag, so you have to make up for me? Someone just canceled a ticket. Do you need one? Give me my card. If you want to go, let's go together. Otherwise, no one can go. Let me see. Is the amount correct? There's no problem. Then sign your name here. Okay. Okay. Seal this door. Also seal that front door. Moreover... Stop! This is my house, what are you doing in my house? Gao's Real Estate Company has declared bankrupt. We are checking and sealing property in accordance to the law. Who are you? Bankrupt? Are you sure it is Gao's Real Estate Company? Certainly. How is that possible It's unbelievable. The number you have dialed is not available now. Sorry, the number you dialed is not available now. Gao Yang. Vice president Jiang. Gao Yang, you're back eventually. They say our company has gone bankrupt. What happened? Where is my dad? Why it suddenly goes bankrupt? This is the enforcement notice and the court's decision. We are just working in accordance with the law. This house has been checked and sealed. Please have a look at relate documents. Yes, yes, I know it. This is my house, where I've lived since I was born. Where should I go to live now? Moreover, we can't get in touch with my father only for now maybe he will come back tomorrow. Right, Vice President Jiang? There must be some problems Even aunt Yan is nowhere to be found. My father can't disappear for no reasons like this. My father will never leave me and not care about me. Don't be panic. The company's troubles do not recently exist your father just doesn't want to let you know. In this period, he has been overseas arranging for the money so he's temporarily out of contact. I think he hasn't got the news about sealing the property. Please sign here. You can bring your personal belongings with you. It's time for us to seal the house. Whether it rains or shines, the most important thing is that our family are still together. By the way, where is my dad's Antihypertensive agent? Where are tranquilizers? What if dad cannot sleep. In this time, health is the most important thing. Blood pressure monitor as well. Gao Yang, at this moment, just bring important things. The company is gone. My house is gone. What is more important than my father? Hello? I'll try my best to solve other branches' problems The specific things now wait for the chairman to come back. Alright. By the way, because my dad hasn't had any news, if you can get in touch with him don't tell him about that our house is sealed. I don't want him to worry about me. Where are you going to be? Never mind. My friends have probably come back today. I'll be with them. Okay. I having a lot to handle, so I can't arrange it for you now. Take care of yourself. I have to go now. Vice President Jiang. If you have any news about my dad and aunt Yan, tell me firstly. Certainly. Take photos of this bedroom's side. Okay. It looks simple but actually takes many places seal. You don't know that, it takes me a lot of time to note down. It's terrible. Really? Dad. This is the dress you gave me when I graduated. You always say each elegant girl must have a black dress like this. This is the gift you gave me when I was twenty years old. You let me experience the true values of beauty. You used to say, women absolutely had to wear high heels so that their back can be straight and their steps will be strong. The memory is stuffed so it wants to find a place to rest. Then it chooses... Dad, see, I'm taller. You're really taller. You're even taller than daddy. Wanting to change the way, it's me who love her. She loves you. And I'm immersed in the loneliness as if pulled back by the time. I've practiced a lot to forget about you to make everything vanish into the air. I love you, love you so much. So I always notice what you do. Memories cannot flow into the past. This is my house. I'll definitely come back one day. I miss you but I give up. I'm getting used to forgetting about you. Things stored in the memory don't need to be spoken out. I love you so I go away from you. Oh my girls, you know what? See it. Gao Yang's father has gone bankrupt. His father is also nowhere to be found. Their house has been sealed. No house, bank cards are also frozen. What should I do now? The number you have dialed is not available now. One hundred and twenty, One hundred and forty, One hundred and sixty One hundred and ninety, One hundred and ninety-five One hundred and ninety-five yuan. Where can I stay with that money? His family going bankrupt may not affect my family, right? Our company has some projects that all comes from Gao's Real Estate Company. When this big boat sinks, many people will die, not because of the sinking boat but to be caught in that vortex. It's right. It's Gao Yang. Pick it up. Let's see if there is any problem with his house. If she calls us now it's 80% that she will ask us to take her in. It doesn't matter to take her in but if she brings some debt collectors with her it's going to be a big trouble. What should I do now? Give me some solutions. We need to make it clear before we can think of anything. Why the world don't answer my phone? The number you have dialed is not available now. President Yan, have you known Gao's Real Estate Company has gone bankrupt? What did you say? The news has been confirmed by the authority. President, do you think we should... Her job is none of my business. But she is your close aunt. President Yan. Hello, bring it up for me, please. Thank you. It's so small. Why there would be such a small room on earth? It isn't as big as half of my bathroom. What is that smell? Perhaps this room was really repaired from a bathroom. It's unbelievable there's a fake window. What kind of this tough bed? Hello, is it receptionist? I'm in room 201. Can you help me to contact the luggage carrier? I told him to carry my luggage long ago and he's still nowhere to be found. Excuse me. What did you say? What do you mean by &quot;luggage carrier&quot;? Wasn't there a luggage carrier by the hotel gate? I told him to carry my luggage up to the room. Wait a moment I don't really understand what you mean. We don't have anyone working as a luggage carrier and we are not in charge of carrying guests' luggage. Stop. Stop. It's my suitcase. Camera.