Today, we're going to learn about humanity's important lesson and see how humans' attempt to control and change nature caused a lake that was once the world's third-largest to disappear. I really can't imagine that this was once a sea. Look at this. The roof is gone. What happened to this village? We're leaving Baikonur and heading to Aral. Aral is a city in western Kazakhstan. I'm currently giving the driver directions to the Aral Hotel, which is a 4-star hotel in Aral. The accommodation costs about 50,000 tenge. I'm not sure how much that is in Thai baht. It's about 3,600 baht. My guide suggested staying at a guesthouse that costs 5,000 tenge per night, which is about 360 baht. So, I asked if we could check out the 3,600 baht hotel first before looking at the 360 baht option. That's quite a big difference - ten times more expensive! In my earlier &quot;I Roam Alone&quot; days, I would've gone straight for the 360 baht option. But now... I didn't get any sleep last night. I'd like to stay somewhere comfortable. I'm getting older, you know? Let me check out the 3,600 baht place first. This one? Well, even though I can afford it, It's fully booked. I guess fate has decided I'll be staying at the 360 baht place after all. Oh well, 360 baht it is then. Not sure what it'll be like. I think it's that one. Hi. Hi. Hello. Here? Yes. Nice and lovely. Taiwan? Thailand. - Thailand. Ah. I'm gonna go inside first. I think it's her own house. Please come in. Thank you. - I leave my shoes here? Beautiful! Such a beautiful house. It's my family's home. We built it ourselves. Beautiful. Wow! So nice! Your room. OK. Oh, so cute! Your name? Mint. - Mint? You? Ulmira. - Ulmira? Mint. The toilet is that way. OK. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. The auntie is so sweet. The place is so beautiful. It's like I'm staying with some relatives. It's so lovely. Much better than a hotel. I really recommend this place. I'll give you the name later. I took a nap. And now, I'm sitting outside. The weather is lovely in the evening. This family is incredibly kind. If anyone comes to Aral, I definitely recommend staying here. Earlier, when I said I was hungry and was going to look for a restaurant, they immediately brought me food. I got to chat with her daughter, her son, and her daughter-in-law, who speaks English. Her son is a doctor. And he's studying in Aktau in the north. He brings his wife and young daughter back home during the summer. Hello! Hello! This seems to be exactly what I need. After a brutal night in Baikonur, I need warmth. The warmth of family. This is just what I need. I'm so happy. We're going out for a walk. We're heading to the old Aral port, which is just a 3-minute walk from here. I'm going with the baby's mother. A stroll with the baby's mother. Ima. - Ayim. Everything is good. Everything is OK. It's already 6 PM. The weather is so lovely. So, what is this one? It's ... It's a mini-park. And it's also an old port and everything. Also, it's an old port. And a museum, too! Yes. All in one. This is a map of the Aral Sea in Kazakhstan, back when it was the world's third-largest saltwater lake. Imagine a massive commercial port here. It's where they transported cotton and various goods between Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan. As soon as the cargo arrived, And look at it now. It's just ... Barren. No water left anymore. This is the Aral Sea museum. In the Aral Sea, there used to be over a thousand islands. People would bring their goods to load onto ships here because it was a major port. This is Aral when it was still the world's third-largest saltwater lake. Back then, fish were so abundant. See? I'm climbing onto a replica of a ship that used to sail on the Aral Sea. It's so sad. Tomorrow, we'll learn more about the story of the Aral Sea. We'll learn about what happened here and what were the impacts. Was it just about the sea drying up, or was there more to it? We'll learn more tomorrow. Today, we're going to learn about humanity's important lesson and see how humans' attempt to control and change nature caused a lake that was once the world's third-largest to disappear and caused the abundant fish that once lived here to vanish. And most importantly, how the way of life of the people who lived here disappeared, something that can never be brought back. We're talking about the Aral Sea. Its name once meant &quot;the land of a thousand islands.&quot; But now, there are no islands left. No water. All that's left is dust and salt. Let's go and learn about the story of this sea. Everyone, this is Seki. Seki? Serik. Serik! He's my guide for the day. It might be a little loud because the road is pretty bumpy. It's a Soviet road. I can see all around it's so dry. Was it like this when you were young? I was born in 1983. And when I was born, the sea was already gone. The first time I went to the sea was when I was 17 years old because the only way to get to the sea, you must have your own car. There was public transportation to the sea. How many kilometers from the town to the sea? The nearest point is about 60 km. The road is crazy. The Aral Sea was fed by two rivers, which are the Amu Darya and the Syr Darya. The Amu Darya provided about 75% of the water to this lake, while the Syr Darya contributed the remainder. In the 1950s, the USSR decided to grow cotton here. So, they diverted water from the Amu Darya to irrigate cotton farms. The irrigation system wasn't very efficient. Over 50% of the water was lost along the way. Less than 50% of the water actually reached the cotton fields. As a result, within 40 years, the Aral Sea shrunk by 90%. That's the train I'll be taking tonight, from Aral to Atyrau. This railway line runs all the way to Russia. Camels represent richness here and show that your family is rich? Yes. How much is it per camel? One adult female camel costs about 700,000-800,000 tenge, which is about USD 2,000 (THB 67,000). Horses are cheaper because they provide less meat than camels. See that beautiful golden horse? He's the group leader. His job is to control the group and keep them in line, which is why he runs at the back. Wow! This area behind me is where camel and horse owners bring their animals together and sell them. Nowadays, camels and horses aren't used for transportation anymore. They're raised for meat and milk instead. All the way here, I really can't imagine that this was once a sea. It's all arid. But it really used to be a sea. We've been driving for a big while, Serik said it's about 60 kilometers from Aral and my guesthouse, which in the past, you could open the door and see the sea. And just a minute's walk away was a major port used for transporting all kinds of goods. Now, we have to drive 60 minutes just to see water. Once something is destroyed, it's much harder to restore it than to preserve it. Preservation is easier than restoration. Can you believe this was a sea just 40-50 years ago? Serik says this is a very popular spot. You can choose which mountain to climb, If you're very energetic, you can climb that one over there. If you're moderately energetic, you can do this one. And if you're feeling lazy, there's that one. Guess which one I'm climbing? That one, of course. Why bother making so much effort! It's raining! Can you see it? In Aral, how often does it rain? Summertime, maybe. The white patches you see on the ground are salt. The white patches right there. Those are salt. The mountain range in front of us used to be the coastline. And the water used to come right up to this area. Now, as you can see, the water is way over there. We just drove up to this hill. And ahead of me is... What remains of the Aral Sea. Currently, it's only about one-tenth of its original size. Let's walk over and take a look. People still fish here today. But it's not as convenient as it used to be when they could just open their front door and start fishing. Now, they have to drive 20-60 km to fishing spots. The Aral Sea actually spans two countries: Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. After efforts to restore the Aral Sea, in 2005 they managed to bring some water back to the Kazakhstan side, raising the water level by about 3 meters. It's just a tiny bit, really. But on the Uzbekistan side, it's completely dried up. Just imagine. This was once a port city with numerous cargo ships. People made their living from fishing. But all because of... Unwise decisions made by the Soviet Union, and humans in general. We treated nature as if we owned it, rather than living in harmony with it. And this is the severe consequence of those actions. Can you tell me more about this area? This is the part of the North Aral Sea, which is now restored by the Kazakh government. There's still some fish in there? Yes, now it's freshwater. The salinity of the Aral Sea is about 5-6 grams per liter. And now, we have about 15 types of freshwater fish species back in the sea. I thought it was so salty, even more salty than the ocean. After the shrinking of the sea in the mid '90s, the salinity was about 22 grams per liter. So, there was only one type of fish existing in the Aral Sea. And that was the flounder because flounders live in salty water. But between 2002 and 2005, the Kokaral Dam was built. The Syr Darya, which fills the Aral Sea, now flows into the Kazakh part of the sea, into the northern part. But with the southern of the sea, it's only a question of time until it just disappears from the world map because now there's no water flowing into the southern part. What happened to this village? It used to be one of the fishing villages. But after the shrinking of the sea, sand dunes started to cover the village. So, people struggled for so many years. But it's impossible to stop it. So, at the beginning of the 2000s, the locals in the village just decided to move away. So now, it's abandoned. It's an abandoned village, yes. Are there still people living here? At the end of the village, there's one family still living there. Why are they still here? They like solitude? Because the government does not support the construction of private houses. So, all the guys who moved to other places have to build their own houses. So, that's why they didn't move. They also moved because the government won't provide support making kilometers of water pipelines and electricity for them. It's already decided that that house is also going to move. But not sure when? I don't know when. Look at that. The roof is gone. The kitchen probably used to be over there. Do you know what's the saddest part? Serik said the government didn't help relocate any of the villagers. No support given whatsoever. My guide told me that in Aral, there are 40,000 people living downtown, and another 30,000 living outside in small villages like this. You can see their living conditions along the way. There's hardly any infrastructure. And don't forget that Kazakhstan is a major oil-exporting country. They have money. But the money... doesn't make it to the people. And this is the story of the Aral Sea. The lesson we've learned from this journey is that when humans try to control nature and exploit it selfishly, ultimately, it's humans themselves who face the consequences. From a lake that was among the world's largest to a desert. From fishing villages to ghost towns. And the impact isn't just limited to Kazakhstan. It affects the entire world. The loss of water has led to decreased rainfall and less snowfall on the glaciers. The glaciers that are the source of many important rivers are disappearing. It's a domino effect that leads to a downward spiral. I don't know where this will end. But if humans continue to exploit nature irresponsibly, our future ahead ... certainly won't be so bright.