For many of us, after you get your you don't think about it again, But there are a lot more settings for and some of them you might want to change, So in this video I'm going to go over how to and explain why you might want to change them about any technical terms, I'll explain everything Speaking of security and privacy, which let me tell you about today's sponsor, Mine. Mine and let's you control where you do or don't want and just sign in with your email account you want Mine will only analyze only the plus with some other metadata to figure but as their privacy policy states, they for the analysis. Then when it's done, it are over 250 companies that have data on On the 'my footprint' page I can see a gather up the courage to look through the entire By clicking on a company, it shows me for and identiy data, as well as online behavior, exposure risk. And here's another company never ended up using, and I don't really want and it will compose an email that will be And this is important because coming directly from the person. Then, you can track and review your requests and And since privacy is important for business too, manage their own privacy operations, including So if you want to start reclaiming your own data, I'll also put that link in the description. Alright so first off is how to actually get to how to do that you can just skip ahead with the on your brand of router, but is mostly the same. to the URL bar. Here you'll need to enter which is in the form of an IP address. The most 192.168.0.1, but there are a few other less common these work, try Googling the specific model number ip address", something like that, to find it. In back or the router, and it may even be like which redirects to the IP address at After you get to the login page, unless it had you'll have to get the default login for your itself like it does with this one, where it's for the password. And actually, no matter what because it's the most common: Admin+Password. and the admin/password combination doesn't and "default admin password" to find it. Or router brand because each manufacturer usually So once you're able to log in, we're ready to And starting off with number 1, let's just change that default password. Not the WiFi Imagine for example if a virus were to infect one password, then it could theoretically and then redirect your entire network's traffic The settings pages are all going to but in most consumer routers there's "Administration" or something similar, so just Advanced tab, then under Administration it says you can just consult the official Onto number 2, this one will take a bit of important. And that is a feature called Universal "UPnP". It's enabled by default on most routers industry consider it too much of a security legitimate purpose, and the technical explanation network to open ports on your router's firewall terms, imagine your internet connection being a actually], which are the ports. And the firewall blocks all 'packets' of data, which you can think all traffic is allowed to be sent out unless only lets data in if it's basically a response to explanation but it's the general idea. And for In some cases though, someone might use a program such as actually hosting a game server, like that. In that case, for the program to work so for example some random player on the internet one option is to go in to the router and manually goes directly to your computer and the program option is Universal Plug and Play, which lets That's fine and dandy until some clever virus or open every port on your router to your computer. but presumably the virus or exploit would also And by the way this isn't just speculation, the past. So my recommendation is find and see if it causes any problems. I can almost but if you do randomly have unexplained you can always try re-enabling it. If you find it just keep UPnP enabled, or if you're willing to ports used by that program and forward them Ok next up number is 3, which is your default DNS I actually think you'll find this one might assume initially. DNS stands for Domain How this works is when you enter a domain your computer needs to get the IP address to your computer asks to translate a domain name to traffic through the DNS server, your computer then once it has it, you connect directly to By default your router and computer will just by your internet service provider. there are other free DNS providers that may be significantly faster than your ISP's, domain blocking. For example, even Google These DNS settings might be under something or maybe Advanced settings, but again it's going but it will be in there. Regardless though, the Primary and Secondary DNS servers, both One example like I mentioned is Google's DNS for those primary and secondary are 8.8.8.8 and the default of which is 1.1.1.1 and 1.0.0.1, domain blocking one, and even one for blocking The malware blocking isn't a guarantee obviously, not like it can scan your traffic and see what As a side note, you can also change the instead of the whole network on your router. Alright onto number 4, we have the Wi-Fi Basically, a certain range of frequencies and this range is split up into smaller of these channels is either 20 Mhz or 40 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz "band", which is what is Anyway, almost all routers will let you which just lets your router broadcast on not just literally allowing more bandwidth and you can even combine up to eight 5GHz channels. and choose the biggest bandwidth they can. If you like an apartment building, it's probably better 5GHz. Because the wider the channels you're using, people's routers on those channels. Whereas if to have a whole channel to yourself, and maybe However, if there is not a ton of WiFi in a house with a decent amount of space between wide channels. And this is for the 5GHz band by 20 MHz wide channels, so you probably won't As for the 160 MHz wide option, I'd only bother and even still this one is a bit trickier "DFS" channels. That's a whole other topic, but The super quick explanation is because your router is required to give priority to any which shares some of those WiFi channels, and if it does, from my understanding. So if you give 160 a shot and see how it goes, it might A final quick note here, is apparently it doesn't actually have you select I'm not even really sure how this it's just doing things automatically here, so it set by default. It might just be automatically Ok finally we come to number 5, though I do have way easier to discuss, and it is "Wi-Fi Protected of WiFi routers that is supposed to make by just pressing a button, instead of having to it says it's just horribly insecure. And you can people use at all anyway. I've never used it and a lot of devices don't even support it. then definitely just disable it, and if you but I'd rather just spend the extra few seconds to do once anyway. The WPS setting will be somewhere Advanced Wireless settings, something like that. just looking for a physical button labelled 'WPS' different too, in this router it has WPS Settings which is how you disable it, since it connects say "Enable WPS" or something like that, you'll Alright now this next setting is an extra by default already, but you really want to called "Remote Administration" and you should Basically it makes it so no one outside your own or in other words NOT just anyone from the setting is probably somewhere under something are someone who for some reason does need So at this point you probably know a little better about the security too, and you might Thanks again to Mine for sponsoring the to start reclaiming your data too. If you want to keep watching, is a video where I talked about encrypted here. If you want to subscribe also be sure I only post videos about twice a week so you your subscriptions. So thanks so much for