- This episode of &quot;StarTalk&quot; is brought to you by CuriosityStream. (upbeat music) This is &quot;StarTalk,&quot; I'm your your personal astrophysicist. And on this edition of which is another version we're just calling it office hours because you can come in on any subject. And I got my man, Chuck Nice here. - Hey Neil, what's happening? - Of course, brother. - How are you, man? - Hey, it's always my pleasure. - I haven't seen the questions yet. - No you never do. - One day you'll show me the questions. - No I will not. - I'll mug you in the street. - Yeah? (hosts laugh) So what do you have? I think I just saw Neil out of a guy and run off with some papers. I wonder what was that, what was that about? Yes, of course you know we take questions from all over the internet, We always start with the - Alright, let's do it. - This is Ari Mody, or Ari says, &quot;Hey I'm from Los Angeles. &quot;Some astrophysicists &quot;be universe death when the &quot;by the expansion and &quot;But we are also told a &quot;and taking any volume of empty space, &quot;and waiting a gazillion years, &quot;matter can and does arise from that void. &quot;Aren't these contradictions? &quot;Why wouldn't something from &quot;if that is a fundamental part So Ari Maudy-- - He totally answered that question. - He just got everything man. - All up in it. - In the question. - He was like, &quot;I'm going &quot;And I'm gonna put - Everything in. So right now the if you put a thermometer out there and it sort of could receive okay, basically the cosmic that energy gives you about three degrees. But we used to be much hotter We've been expanding and cooling. Not fundamentally different in principle, I mean, the mechanisms are have you ever let air does anyone still ride bicycles? - Of course, yes. I do it all the time, and I just walk around Manhattan, and I'm just like, you - Expanding air is cooler than the air that it was before it your thumb feels cool. It's not just 'cause it's moving, it's actually dropping in And so the universe expands and cools, it's a thermodynamic fact. And by the way, we can whose light came to us and there are measurements that that galaxy was in its time than the temperature - That's pretty wild. - It is completely wild. - Because you're not talking about a very, a big source, like that light source is. - It's a light source, So everybody feels it, - So how exactly-- where an electron will depending on the bath - I got you, that makes sense now. - And so they're a little more excited farther away than over here. - That makes perfect sense. - So we're not just making this up, okay, so-- - You know, I had to, listen, I just had to make sure, - So, and as we get twice as big, they drop the temperature in half. Three times big, it drops it to 1/3. - So there is a directly inverse - Correct. - Inverse proportion, very good. - Yeah, you like that, you like that? - I saw what you did there. - Out of nowhere with that. - Not just proportional, So as this continues, the all stars will ultimately one by one in the night sky. As they shut off in the &quot;Well, are we making new stars?&quot; Well, we are, with the gas but then they make a star So the gas gets sort of Alright, so then there's Then the atoms themselves decay. And ultimately, in about which is a huge number, huge The very structure of matter And so the universe ultimately but with a whimper, and - It peters out. That's, wow. - After I said those poetic That's the best you got for me? - Well, that was the joke. - Okay. (laughing) - That was the whole joke. - Okay, so this idea that from nothing, I just wanna spend So if you start with nothing that has both positive all that matters is that the sum, you add them together So you can start with if the total energy goes to zero. So another way to think about that is, let's say you have a level field, and say, &quot;I wanna dig a hole.&quot; So I'm gonna dig a hole and stack the dirt over on the left. So I keep doing this, as high as I want. - Yeah, but you're gonna - I'm gonna have a hole. (laughing) I'm gonna have a hole. - I got a hole. - So what we're not sure about is whether you create another universe within this universe that has Our best understanding of is that the universe that's what we say, causally connected So you could, in principle, popping up into existence, and the edge of what that universe is, you have no way to interact with it. So there you have it. - We're stuck in this one. and that's all there is to it. That's pretty wild. Man, that's a, well, listen. - He got his money's worth on that one. - Yeah, he got some money's worth, bro. - That's right. That's a great question, it took us, wow. - It took us to the edge of the universe. - The edge of the universe and back. - Not only in space, but in time. - Could you go to the edge of the universe without space and time? - Actually, once Einstein where the fourth dimension is time, and people say, &quot;Well, No, no one has ever been at a No one has ever acknowledged a time unless they were at a place. Think about it, if I say to you, &quot;Chuck, I'll meet you what's your next question to me? - What're we doing? - No, that's not! (laughs) Okay, what's your question after that? (hosts laugh) - Of course, where? - Where? - I give you a time, you ask where. Okay, I say, &quot;Chuck, &quot;at the corner of 33rd and Third.&quot; - [Chuck] When? - When. We know intuitively that involves the juxtaposition We know that, intuitively. We just don't think of it in those terms, because they're measured A watch and a map, right? But in fact, they're formalized that statement in - Amazing. - That is great stuff. - Alright, let's move Hey, how about Woody, it's, clearly this is a Pixar, who is just writing in. Woody would like to know, &quot;do lasers and solar panels work together? &quot;We could design and build the components &quot;for specific purposes of &quot;at great distances. &quot;Which frequency on the light spectrum &quot;would be best suited for this task? &quot;Then how would you resolve the problem &quot;of a five-watt laser being a dribble, &quot;like Chuck at three &quot;500-kilowatt laser,&quot; what? What the hell is this guy talking about? - Okay, I think I got his point. So what he wants to do and I wanna put it over there, alright? By the way, that, when you think about it, is kind of like what war is. - Okay. I have energy here, and I That is kinda what the waging I have a bow and arrow, I put energy in the arrow here, - And then the energy goes over there. There's a bullet, has energy, - There's a bomb, there's thanks for the sound effects there, Chuck. - Yeah, no worries. - So I think there, what - Yeah, yeah, yeah. What we wants to know is, if and laser goes fast can I just have a catcher's mitt somewhere where I wanna deliver it, - And then use it as energy. - In principle, nothing's Except the curvature of earth's surface, if you believe in a round earth, so you can't beam light and bend it, okay? - Unless you have a gravitational force that will bend it for you. - Yes, what would work, you try to send a beam of and go around the black hole itself. But on earth and sort of normal So it has to be a line of sight delivery. If it's enough energy be pretty dangerous to cross that beam. (hosts laugh) I'm just sayin'. - I shouldn't be laughin', what you said, I mean-- If it's enough enough energy - Right, it's enough energy - Cut you in half just - See, what's funny about that to make that happen, but you - Completely, yeah. and like, on the test run, you and you're just like, we've actually figured out a way to transfer energy over great distances and oh, damn, we just killed somebody. Or a more tragic version &quot;let's celebrate and dance!&quot; And then they accidentally (hosts chuckle) It kills the inventor of the-- - So your person has poetic justice. - Right, no, that one, so So, insulated wires, I mean with electricity, - Well no that's information - Not energy itself, - It's a small amount of - It's not enough to power anything. - To power anything, correct. - And what we learned, you didn't ask this, but Do you remember everyone's as imagined in the 1950's and 60's? Flying cars, motorized that energy would be very It takes energy to fly what became accessible; So we live in an information energetically to send information. - [Chuck] True! - And as a communicative it's a highly valued commodity. So we send information around the world, you know, with no effort, the investment of energy that - [Chuck] True. - So back then, no one the movie &quot;2001: A Space Odyssey?&quot; - Yeah. - The computer was this of the spaceship and it No one is imagining that on your hip, plus entertainment 'cause it's information, is what that is. Alright, so we do send energy, and they're insulated so that you don't touch the wire and get electrocuted. That's the electricity Here's the wire sending energy here? Go grab it with two hands, - Now go stand in some water, hold this. (Neil Laughs) - Hold this and stand in a puddle. I just took out some - Got time for a few more - Alright, Zachary Sprodlin &quot;given your vast knowledge well yes, your vast knowledge of physics, &quot;what are your thoughts on Okay, I've never heard this is okay, &quot;do you believe the universe &quot;to be holographic in nature? &quot;If so, do you think we &quot;about the perceived difference &quot;between the particles and waves, &quot;or are we already doing as &quot;What are your thought on nature of waves &quot;versus particles and this - Okay, so that's a whole other thing, but let me start with I don't claim to be like, a total expert in the holographic with you what I know and There are calculations in a black hole in the event horizon, that's the point of no return, that if you fall through all the information contained within you gets remembered at that event horizon. - [Chuck] Okay. So that's a little bit ask the question, are we something real or are we just some-- - Imprint! - Of some other thing that's real. - [Chuck] That was real. - That's it, that's-- - It's almost like the or conversation that you have. Is there some higher reality of which we are just And so it's a spooky idea but I wouldn't know how to test that. Maybe the folks who came up with this have thought that with them on that, I don't But usually, if the theoretical and they're based on other like relativity and you wanna take it seriously. They didn't just pull it So that's an intriguing fact. Now, waves and particles, the duality? Yeah, matter is waves and particles, okay? Do you know why an - Um, because it costs a lot of money? I don't know, I just really - Why is the word electron in Microscopes use waves, light waves, okay? Well you can't, can I blow your mind? - Go ahead, better that. (laughs) - Are you seated? - I'm seated - Okay, here you go. Does it make sense that you're using, you cannot than the wavelength of light you're using to illuminate the object? - [Chuck] That makes sense. - Does that make sense? - [Chuck] Absolutely because, - That's your blunt instrument, - As a matter of fact, no matter what you're looking then you don't see - Anything, okay. - So you need some light, so alright, now, if I'm using red a certain wavelength, okay? But if I use light that's or yellow or green or blue, or violet, has the shortest So if I have a violet light better than I would in a - You'd also see all the 'cause it's a black light, I don't know what was on this slide, but-- - That's if you go, - That's if you go ultraviolet, - Right, ultraviolet Ultraviolet. - Yeah, get your ultra goin' there. So here's the thing. It also means you can into a certain, sort of, size. It's why blu-ray players than regular CD's, 'cause regular CD's didn't use blue lasers. - And who knew streaming was Regular CD's and blu-ray. CD's are what we used to, you know, or DVD's (laughs) Used to be somethin' called a CD. Right, right, but go ahead. - So the point is, an electron that is in the realm of So if you illuminate a you basically have x-ray - That's very cool. - That's what you have, and you can see, that's why if you see pictures taken from an electron microscope, on the microbes, That's amazing. - Because you're using - Of the particle. - The wave of the particle, damn! - Damn. - Damn. - Yo that's hot, that's hot. And so my point is, there is no meaning for you to ask, is it It is both, and just 'cause around it doesn't mean it's not true. - Wow. - We don't have, when I our vocabulary, our that we choose, is it a Is it a book, is it a chair? Are you a this, or are you a that, okay? We're forcing this in ourselves because we like compartmentalizing. This is part of the gender thing. Are you a boy or are you a girl? Which is it, okay? - [Chuck] Well, I haven't decided. - You haven't decided, so this forcing, it seems to be a deeply human thing, but when it's time to - It's not nature, it doesn't - It's not cosmic - We gotta take a break. - Alright. - We are in Neil deGrasse on &quot;StarTalk,&quot; we'll be back in a moment. - [Chuck] Hey, if you want to learn more about our incredible universe, CuriosityStream's &quot;A Okay, that means the name and it comes in a series; They've done some incredible visualization of the formation of the universe, I mean, that you and I are in the same universe. You'll be able to see what it looked like before there were planets and stars, what it looked like when the universe was mostly hydrogen and helium. Or should I say, hydrogen and helium? Okay, that was unnecessary. Subscribe to CuriosityStream It's just $2.99 per month, the first 31 days are completely free if you sign up at and use promo code StarTalk. You'll get unlimited access to and non-fiction series Go ahead, sign up now. - We're back on &quot;Star Which is a way of saying, pull that query from wherever And we got Chuck to mangle - Absolutely. - You got a little better, Chuck. Little better, I wanna, I'm - I think it's part of the fact that I can't read - Or that I can't figure out anybody's name, so. - Uh, let's move on to Kyle - Kyle Ryan Toth, three syllables. - Three syllables, hey, - Kyle, man, thanks brother. two syllables, sorry. Not when I say it though, it's &quot;Ryan.&quot; - Ryan, Ryan come on down - Hey Ryan! (hosts laugh) - Ryan! - How you doin' man? Everything's one syllable. How you doin' man? (hosts laugh) Alright, Kyle says-- - Who was it, it was Jeff Foxworthy, who said in Texas there are single syllable words but - Yes. - Like, I don't give a - (laughs) Right, and it's That's like, I have a friend who was like, if you're Italian, &quot;gee&quot; but it's a whole sentence, so, &quot;gee?&quot; &quot;Yeah, not yet,&quot; you do know, but, - I don't know what that-- - Oh, oh, jeet, jeet! - Why is that if you're Italian? - I don't know, that's - Oh you mean Italian within a Brooklyn accent. - Hey, jeet? - Oh yeah, okay, that should, I'm thinking pure Italian, I'm saying, no, I'm not getting that, sorry. - No this would be, right, - I got one! - Go ahead. - Nah I'm saying? - Nah, and wait, ya mean? what I am saying, do you - Nah I'm saying? And, ya mean? - Y'all know what I mean? Yup, there you go, ya mean. Nah I'm saying? - (laughs) I would do I'm gonna say, I'm give the (hosts laugh) - Alright here we go. - Nah I'm saying? - There you go. - How do you spell it? N-O-M-'-S-A-I-N, nom'sain? - Nom'sain? - Mhm. How do you spell &quot;mhm?&quot; - &quot;Mhm.&quot; - It' un-spellable. - No, you can, it's &quot;mhm.&quot; - &quot;Mhm. (hosts laugh) And if you're a black woman, it's, &quot;mhm.&quot; Oh, the hands gotta get all in there. - Mhm. - Mhm. - That's the same thing, you - Well no, the pitch behind the &quot;mhm,&quot; so there's which is like, baby, you look good, &quot;mhm.&quot; - Okay. Uh, um, so I didn't go to - Oh, okay. - So the pitch carries meaning. - The pitch carries meaning. - Even though you're saying exactly the same thing. but it's all in the pitch, - Okay, that's good, I - And then there's, &quot;mhm!&quot; - No that's a, that's a &quot;you - That's it! - You're absolutely right! It's &quot;mhm.&quot; - Right, better known as, &quot;negro, please.&quot; So there you go, um here we go, this is-- - I got a word where the by capitalizing the first letter. - Wait a minute, go ahead. - No, you'll get that later, okay go. - Aw, what a tease! Alright, okay, here we go. - You want the word? I'll tell you the word. - No, no, no, let's make after the question. after next break, okay. oh that's real tease. comin' back. (hosts laugh) - You are forced. Mhm. - Okay here we go: &quot;imagine &quot;to a black hole and experiencing &quot;How would outgoing signals &quot;of electromagnetic &quot;Would we still receive such signals? &quot;Would they be distorted - Yeah, no, yeah, it still If the planet is outside event and it's in orbit, yes, it is There is very serious to anyone looking at them. They will send out a signal and the energy of their light as it comes out will, it will continuously lose not speed, just energy. out the speed of light, at a high-energy band of it'll be a very low-energy band of light. - Interesting! very low, low energy. - See, and so, that's counter-intuitive for what you would think, that it would lose speed, but you can't, light can't lose speed. - Light cannot lose speed. - And by the way, a way if I send a beam of light, of energy and I do that in But now I'm looking at you, sorry, what you're calling one second now takes an hour for me, - That amount of energy into one-second delivery to it, but for now it's taking you an hour to send out that energy as So the energy gets from the black hole. - So yeah, it's called a - Right, oh, cool. - It has a term, there's 'Cause I got good people, my I think we got some of accurate wiki pages out there. - And by the way, it's a hard page. (Neil laughs) 'Cause, uh-- with other sciences, I - Oh no, you guys do a good job, but uh, I'm gonna tell you-- - What you don't try is make it easy for regular - Gravitational redshift, it's there. - Yeah, gravitational redshift. - Hey first of all, that so thank you so much. Alright, um-- - Let's go with Annie C. Hickman, and Annie wants to know this: she says, &quot;I am a teacher and a--&quot; - Give it up for the teacher. - Yeah, give it up, boom, - &quot;And a manual,&quot; 'cause a sacrifice to just waste (hosts laugh) - Damn, Chuck. - You know I'm joking, I have nothing but the She says, &quot;I am a teacher &quot;From time to time, my &quot;if a wheelchair could be powered in space &quot;with fireworks, or &quot;to get rid of me.&quot; (laughs) - To send her up there. her to space and put &quot;Since fireworks are rockets.&quot; - She's thinking about propulsion here. - She is thinking about propulsion. &quot;Also, would having &quot;be erased in space since &quot;If you float around the &quot;Aren't you using your legs You know, that's a great would think that in zero might do something in terms about in zero gravity, so - So first, great question, she has power, she has arm So that's a key element of this. So first of all, in space, You have a wheelchair so that right, so, when I say to zero-G in space, just So if you're in space, maneuvering themselves with their legs. The spaceships are designed, to have grips. I've never seen them use their legs. They're always grabbing little grab-ons, and then they pull themselves, - And they swim through the air. - Like swimming. And so you don't wanna go to stop somewhere at the be ready to stop, so if you have full use of your arms and your arm what everybody else is - Oh man, that's so cool. - So now, the difference to do some of the, sort to show you, so for example one of them is they'll start rotating and up to their chest, you might up if you don't have use of reach down and grab them but up and then they see and that's just having spinning fun, like when an ice skater they spin faster? - If you bring your a slight rotation before, And in case you don't feel for being in zero-G, and then you'll throw up right on the spot Go 'head and paint the walls. - Yeah, if you're spinning then there's spiraling-- - Oh, that's a beautiful picture. (laughs) - That's a beautiful picture, so I don't think Nasa shows us, so-- - So now okay, so now and the rockets now, so here's the thing, 'cause I'm thinking in my head-- - It's not about the chair. - No, no, no, I'm talking if you put rockets on a wheelchair, but on the wheels themselves, through space in that chair or would the rocket just - So what'll happen is, and so now you're putting Torque is a force that I've always loved the word. &quot;Torque.&quot; It sounds powerful. - It is, you know. Plus the car folks all like torque, too. - They love that, yeah, - Um, foot pounds. - It needs a distance it's a distance from How many feet away and how So what you'll do primarily But there's something called conservation of angular and you wanted to keep your rotating one direction, and rotate backwards, so and you'll just rotate - [Chuck] So the two of you will be going in opposite directions spinning around. - Correct, so what you want is, on you, you want the, this you want that line of to go through your center of mass. And that way your entire system moves-- - [Chuck] It's just moving all at once. Everything's moving at once. If you're off the center of mass, you're gonna start rotating. - Yeah, you have some movement forward, but a lot of that's gonna and you don't want, you So there you go Annie, what you wanna do is lose the wheelchair, - Altogether, you don't need it. - You don't need it, yeah. - Yeah, very cool. - And she lights fireworks so you can take like, roman and since that has a, a roman So you can just adjust it. And let it pull you. - Very cool. God I wanna go to space now, okay. And throw up all over everyone. (hosts chuckle) Alright, do we have time for another one? - Yeah, yeah, couple more, let's do it. Okay, here we go, this is Jay Degator. Jay Degator wants to know this. What, uh-- - Yeah, hey man. Hey Jay, I'm sorry. - We'll go with that, nom'sain? (hosts chuckle) - It's Degator, yamean? - Ya, I know what you mean, nom'sain? - Alright, here we go. (hosts chuckle) &quot;What does the merging of black holes mean &quot;for the future of the universe? &quot;Could the universe &quot;a sort of contraction &quot;of a collective hyper-massive black hole? &quot;Could we be left with a &quot;containing all the &quot;waiting for the next big bang &quot;to trigger? - &quot;Or does the universe have &quot;to worry about?&quot; (laughs) - (laughs) Yeah, prioritize your issues. - Prioritize, right. - So black holes are not as voracious as lore leads us to believe. There's a black hole in And it's what we call a I forgot the exact mass, the mass of the sun. - I'd like, 600,000, but I forgot the number, but it's large, okay? And the formation mechanism of a frontier in my field. You can merge two black holes - [Chuck] Right, and we've - It's happening all the And so as they collide, the find each other and then they a black hole twice as big, but out if you were not otherwise you're not gonna now start We are safe-- - It's not a toilet bowl drain, right. - So we're not gonna one day land-- - We're not cosmic poop. - Well some of use are. - So no, in fact, in the black holes, ultimately, will evaporate, according to Hawking radiation, it's a, and it's a really interesting phenomenon. - So now, okay, see-- - Can I tell you what the phenomenon is? - Go, please, yeah. - So a black hole has very strong gravity. Well, how much gravity does it have? Well, you can think of the of energy, we call it the In it's vicinity, every now energy becomes particles It'll do that just, a particle pair, a matter and and they go in opposite directions, okay? Okay, by the way, they have so that the momentum cancels, as just a pocket of energy You can't have two, a particle and nothing canceling out - Oh, like a bazooka. - Yes! - The recoil in the other direction. Otherwise the person becomes-- (hosts laugh) - That's pretty funny Note to the next design. (laughs) - Exactly, that is awesome. - Why do you guys have 'Cause we got 25 shots. (laughs) - Yeah, so there's a recoil So same with the spaceships, you recoil at the back, what point was I making before? - You were talking about, so - Oh yeah, so what happens spontaneously makes a particle into the black hole and the other escapes. That takes mass away from the black hole. - And therein lies, - The evaporation of the black hole. - Yes, it's very slow, but it's real. - So this spontaneous - It's called Hawking radiation. - It's Hawking radiation. - So it's the dissemination that are opposites and one and then all of a sudden, the black hole's gone. - It evaporates to nothing, correct. - Okay, that is really awesome. - We gotta take a break, we'll be back for our third and final segment. When we come back, you will changes just by capitalizing - Yes! In Neil deGrasse Tyson's This episode of &quot;StarTalk&quot; is brought to you by CuriostiyStream. - We're back on &quot;StarTalk,&quot; Neil deGrasse Tyson's office hours, where we take questions on to be in a category, and Chuck is helping me out - Alright, let's jump right, oh no, first you gotta give - Okay, I like words a lot. - [Chuck] So what is this the first letter and change - Completely, yeah. like I'm on NPR's word puzzle P-O-L-I-S-H. - Polish, and then you So one is what you do to shine something, and the other is-- from Poland. - Very nice. - It is weird. with this show, but I don't know why, I-- - So don't start a sentence with polish. (hosts laughs) - Yes, 'cause it has to be capitalized. - It has to be capitalized. Polish my shoes? You racist son-of-a- (laughs) Let's go to Fyodor Popov. - Fyodor? - Yes it is. - It's Fyodor, okay. - And last name? - Popov. Fyodor says this: &quot;if you had to guess, &quot;where lies the Great Filter?&quot; Now, first of all, what - I have no idea yet what So please proceed. - Alright, okay, there you - No, no, let me hear the whole question. - That's it! - &quot;If you had to guess, I don't know what the unless it's, you know, Britta. If it's Britta, I'm good. Where lies the Great Filter? In my refrigerator filtering my water. - The Great Filter, I have no so we gotta go to I'll be able to say something, okay? - Alright, so in that case, is go to Wiki-- help me out here from Wiki. what they say it is. &quot;The Great Filter, in the &quot;is whatever prevents dead &quot;abiogenesis in time to &quot;as measured by the Kardashev scale.&quot; - Okay, I can say something about this, I just didn't know it was called &quot;The Great Filter.&quot; - The Great Filter, now all I got from that was Fermi - So the Fermi Paradox by the great physicist Enrico Fermi. So Enrico Fermi posed the run the math, you can say, alright, how long has earth been here? How long did it take life to form? How long did it take what we Now that we're intelligent, to travel to another planet? Let's say we have a spaceship, alright? Is it a generational ship? Fine, so it takes 10 Then you become pilgrims, set up tent, now from there you go From each of those two from one to two to four to You can populate the entire in a shorter time than You can do it in like a - Yes, right. - That's on an evolutionary, 65 million years ago, so-- - That's a very short time-- - On an evolutionary scale. with the lifetime of a planet, of the universe, so if that's the case, why hasn't it happened yet, trying to populate this So it's the Fermi Paradox: where are they? - Maybe they were already here. - Maybe we are their-- - There's some religions that God is actually the aliens, yeah. - Okay, right on, hey (hosts chuckle) - Just by the fact that you (hosts laugh) I don't judge how crazy people are! That's what you said, so this dead matter, they 'cause that implies it inanimate matter, to become self-replicating life. So the question is, that it puts a damper on this whole-- - On the other processes. However, that happened We went from inanimate molecules within a couple of hundred million years. - Wow. life was there for billions of years. So that's not really that long. - No, it isn't. So the filter, I don't see You know what I think the filter is? - [Chuck] What? - Whatever urge you have and then all your descendants there's gonna be a point where, there's a planet I wanna colonize, oh, but you wanna colonize that same planet. So then, what do we do? - You're gonna have a blood - Correct, and so it to want to expand is self-limiting because you will fight wars-- - You cancel yourself out. you to strike out and that destroys you in the end. - Correct. - Wow. And there are whole of problems in life, for still happens if you lose a quarter in between the base and back of the seat in your car and you reach for it? The act of reaching for it and then it falls further in. - See, I'm cheap, that (Neil laughs) - I'm gonna be honest-- - I have actually pulled a seat out to get to money that's fallen. (laughs) - We got one minute left, - Alright, here we go, you know what, this is an education - Let's do it, lightning round. - Stephen Donham, he says, &quot;listen all the time, my question &quot;being taught in school, it &quot;and kids have to go through &quot;to get the right answer &quot;to get the right answer when it comes &quot;to life and death and &quot;to get the right answer - Oh, good question, okay. - I am not doing a lightning - Okay. - It is a very important-- with my answer to that question, okay? - So this is the end of the show, and-- - I'm doing deep dive on - Well, that's why I picked the question. - In my recent months and years. - Well, you're in education, - A deep dive, and I'm looking what have worked, what and I have come to conclude what matters more than the right answer is the right question. - And taking a cue from Isaac Asimov, in an essay he once wrote called - &quot;The Relativity of Wrong,&quot; you know-- - Yes, okay so here you go, and I have a spelling bee And you spell it K-A-T, it's marked wrong. You don't get any credit for that 'cause the correct answer is C-A-T. But suppose instead you It's still marked wrong. - And that's so much - It's so much farther away that K-A-T. In fact, you could argue that than C-A-T, you know why? 'Cause if you look up C-A-T, the phonetic - (laughs) That's awesome. - But you got it marked wrong. So this urge to get the right to diminish the importance of but it has less value because in exploration, You are on the precipice, the boundary between what is known and what is unknown, and you're taking a And you don't know what's there, you don't even know what question to ask. - I know what's there, a cat. - But you're probing, you're poking, you're trying to figure And so, and most questions - Have an answer. Can I give you an example? - [Chuck] Go ahead. Okay, what's the diameter of the sun? Ask me that. - [Chuck] What is the diameter of the sun? - You look it up, it'll say in what wavelength of light Other wavelengths of in the star, okay, and it's bigger, the corona emits x-rays. - We found that out earlier in the show, because of the different wavelengths. - It's a different wavelength. So you have to specify. How high up does the atmosphere Oh, 62 miles, 100 kilometers, agreed 'cause that's a There's still air That's why we have to every now and then knocking it out of orbit, okay? So there is no demarcation with the interplanetary medium. So we like tidy answers, but about the answer, it's about of what's going on, and So no, common core math is a good thing. It's got you thinking in to tackle a problem in the future that you have never seen it's not about knowing the right answer to a pre-designated out an answer to a question So you need the tools and of inquiry to accomplish that. - Wow, there you go, drop the mic. That's a very good answer. I'm writing this up - It's going in the next thing. - Alright. - Chuck. - Always good to have you. - Namsain? (hosts laugh) - This has been &quot;StarTalk,&quot; your personal astrophysicist, in my office-- - The cosmic crib at in New York City, part of Natural History, and as always, I bid you to keep looking up. - [Chuck] Thanks to CuriosityStream for supporting this episode of &quot;StarTalk.&quot; The universe is full of mysteries as you've seen in this episode. Well, CuriosityStream has a video about the universe in their See that, it's called a &quot;Curious World,&quot; and it comes in a series. The animations are so engaging, I could've watched the But don't do that, you They show you everything to theories about dark matter, and most importantly, how which is important because, you know, I live here on earth. You can watch it for just $2.99 per month, and if you go to and use code StarTalk, your Go there right now, with over and series to enjoy, you