Hey T-Boogie, just wanted to give you a and it's by far the sketchiest Fights breaking out everywhere, people Yeah, I don't think I've ever I'll give you another update as soon as we leave. Love you, buddy. In our pursuit to explore the most to tell meaningful stories about them, this one may be the riskiest of them all. Welcome to La Rinconada, the In the heart of the Here, amidst the icy peaks and beneath the where the dreams of fortune clash with 5,200 meters above sea level. 50,000 people have come here in in the hopes to find gold In its battle frontier-like setting, miners live and work under trading labor for the chance to they mine for 30 days without payment, only to get a chance to mine and often get exploited in Yet the promise of gold continues to reflecting the human capacity to Today, Ammar takes us to begin his expedition to La Rinconada, along with our And let me tell you, and no contact to I watched a few videos that I had downloaded on the town, on the plane Pretty scary. We go around the world, and we He doesn't speak English. Okay, Cristian, we have a question. Can you drive up to Rinconada? If you can take us up to La Rinconada Yes, yes -Yeah? From my understanding, at least! One way or round trip? Both! We stay there two days We go tomorrow, so Wednesday, and we come back Thursday? Yes Okay, I think we just who's just the driver He gave us a decent price and He'll just be with us the whole time We're off to a promising start. Every DM that I've sent to everybody's like immediate Yeah, even him when we were it's very dangerous there. That's the part that is is like our physical state Taking in 50% less oxygen for a whole -Jeez! We're doing a quick pit stop to just get Just because from everything I've And not even rough when you get there, So... Yeah! The higher they went up the more Ammar started of letting Rinconada creeping in. Hypoxia. I feel like shit already. At altitudes exceeding 17,000 and each breath we take delivers fewer The brain, the most Mental functions slow, a clear warning from our body that it is Prolonged exposure can lead to, as the body scrambles, to and breathing to compensate This is not mere discomfort. It's a survival response to an can be a fatal health risk. Luckily, due to his previous Ammar knows what to look out for This trip was particularly tricky because obviously we needed the and I think I posted on but I think how sketchy depicted this place just I want to take this risk with We don't know what we're and I didn't want to bring I just couldn't guarantee Last time I was at altitude, it was when I was climbing but we're going 2,500 feet higher which is just absolutely wild. We've got a driver, no translator, and our contact, who was one of he basically just He was supposed to fly out. But we're gonna find Quick lunch break, we're about an Hey how are you doing Hello Is the food alright? Safe to say that Christian is fully Boys trip. Boys trip? Boys trip yes! What do we got here? That doesn't sound 87 You're supposed to be 97 and above. I don't think it's affecting my vitals -Wow, 92. Hey, hey, hey, hey. Christian, is this your -No, no! I've come in different times That's good. The drone already says &quot;high altitude, fly with caution.&quot; Before I even took off, it said that. Well, I think I can safely I haven't felt any jealousy You see, when we travel and which tends to happen a lot, we to translate, and to message And for that, we obviously can't which often doesn't work, or use data roaming, which which is why our secret all this time It is the world's first eSIM card store, which is a digital SIM card solving you and giving you access And right now, they're offering by either scanning this or by An eSIM is a pre-installed which means you don't have of dealing with a Airalo is also extremely easy to use. Just download the app, and then you can search immediately available on the app, and follow the simple to have your eSIM ready for instant The best perk, in my opinion, is that and at the same time, you from the insanely high roaming And if you end up staying it is very easy to So guys, remember to check if and then join us in using and get $3 off your first or by using Yes Theory 3 at checkout. Really, I mean, if you're not using what are you doing, you know? Okay, now back to Peru. It's the last town before la Rinconada I am feeling it. Are you? Yeah,I'm feeling so nauseous right now. It makes you lightheaded for a second. Christian our driver just told us that we're about to get a first look at the glacier. Wow! As they were initially struck the harsh reality of the surroundings This just has to be one of the saddest like from just gorgeous and then just this sea I mean, that's what happens when 50,000 people without the infrastructure necessary and with just illegal S*** Dude. This breaks my heart. The first miner that we was this woman on I think women are not so some women here just take up the miners and look for any gold My name is Ammar And you? Adela! Adela! -Adela! Adela! How long... Have you been working here? Around 4 years How many hours are you working today? 8 hours 8 Hours waw Have you found anything today? Any minerals? I haven't found anything Nothing It's not every day Nothing big. I see, I saw gold, And how much would this be? And how much would this be worth? 10 to 20 cents That's why she needs to gather a lot Do you have children? Yes. How many kids do you have? 4 4 kids? Please have this for your time Thank you so much Thank you. Thank you. Don't step on the mud You can walk this way Yeah, first impression for me, I mean, I knew that close but I guess I didn't picture what that There's parts where people are So they just come for like mining days But they say it's between And then there's the main town, which is more And then there's So yeah. La Rinconada is essentially as and they quickly realized that Ammar then spotted some and to his great surprise, Here now, it is... dangerous Yeah! Dangerous, dangerous. The altitude here is 5200 meters above sea level. How is your oxygen level? Yeah okay, thank you. Moment of truth. My finger? I just loved his vibe. I He was like, hi, nice to Wow! Pretty good. -Pretty good? -93? -76? 76 and my heartbeat is 111. We arrived here on the first day It's difficult Less oxygen. Then three, four days... -You just, your body gets used to it? -How old are you? -27? You knew that coming it's bad for health, Yes. Why did you still make In Cusco (hometown) the protests about the president -Yeah, yeah No tourists, nothing absolutely In Cusco... for us too, no jobs... So after pandemic, it just became really bad. Yeah, really bad. And we come here no? That's it Yes, I like, you know... -Yes, a little dangerous. Here it's more uh... Delinquents yeah Basically, it's like I think they just end up where you end up with some Thankfully, they are not some Just by walking earlier, we could What is the plan for tonight? No plan, no plan. No plan. If you can be our local tour guide, Of course. It would be amazing to just so that we're not just like walking with And your smile is just amazing, so. -Yeah, thank you. Could we like go for a walk? You tell us, okay, this Where? Around this place? -Yeah, around here. But we are going to go tonight -Yeah. Yeah, okay, let's go. We'll see you tonight. Let's go. They are Youtubers They are recording all around the world How do you say &quot;Welcome&quot; -Welcome. Thank you! Small And how much would a piece like this be? How much for this? This would be 2500 ($675 USD) And would this be like one Maybe in one day or in one hour or in half an hour, it depends. What's your luckiest day, best day? 50 grams. 15 or 50? 50 grams = $375 USD It depends on mineral Sometimes it's there or sometimes no gold It's heavier than it looks. No eat the gold! Very expensive, very expensive! Thank you so much! This is the view Like everyone that works here, how Maybe one kilogram. 1 kg? 2 kg (Gold price per Kilogram: $75,092.94 USD) Less than 10 kilograms. Yes Tourists Like you guys The people &quot;Wow&quot; It's not usual, Gringo you know? What were you saying about the shower? Just here there are 3 showers hot showers In the whole, in the entire town? -Yes. Yes. Three hot showers? Yes, for example, in this street and other street Just 3 showers, no more showers. Wow. Hi boys Hello This a machine, no? With a big stone... Ground Yes, grind it With water and... Mercury And mercury Is this why people have a Because mercury is mixed with the lake. Yes Friedel explains to us here that La as the very industry that There is heavy use of mercury in which has severe polluting the land and water, with consequences that reach It is also highly toxic and for the miners and the wider community, including neurological Now, all the lakes and water streams and become completely undrinkable. -The name is Awichita. Awichita. It is similar like a woman. The woman is sleeping. -Ah, like the face and then the chest Mother Earth Many years ago The glacier Went down more and all in this place Now with pollution two years, less glacier. Less glacier for the pollution. Because the people destroyed the Mother Earth. How do you feel about that, but you also, you care and you don't like the I recommend to my friends Please, don't leave trash -Or don't contaminate No nothing, we're going to put in the trash. No leave Because other people don't respect it No, yeah, drinking and then the plastic and the bottles This is a problem. For me, it's not good Yeah man, I know! First of all, I can already see it I just did that reading and it was 66%, so now we're in danger zone. Yeah, that's not healthy, huh? -No! I'm worried about myself too. Ammar's oxygen levels were They had to keep a very close look on him to make sure no serious and be ready to So he's been here What was your first Accidents in the mountain, the rocks The first thing he remembers here How often do you see people die here? Almost every day. Or almost... Almost every day? Almost every day! In the mines And here too in the discotheques too it's dangerous Because the... Delinquents coming in and then It's not good here Wow. When was the last time Two weeks ago In other street Shooting? uff! F***! Wow. Okay, so we have to be careful. Yes! Once the sun goes down, No, don't worry Because we help you with everything Yeah? My brother. My brother. For example, the guys. You're a magnet to the good people You attract good people. Yes, yes, yes. Thank you. Thank you man, thank you. Appreciate it. Here you go, this one is for the other room All our groceries, aka dinner for tonight. We got a window. We got a TV. Corey went outside to but came back quickly A guy came and like tried to focus my I'm like, yeah, sure, this is how you And I was like, I'm not gonna say. Like, I don't know, And he was like, okay. F***ing Snag, my water bottle and But it was only water, But... That set the tone for me. Right after that, I don't want to carry my camera This is too crazy for me! I'm pretty grateful, man. We just came We were given the clearest instructions not to leave with anything They were telling us we really had We were more liberal with our than other people who have been here. So our driver, Christian, was just concerned that someone So he actually gave us pretty on what to do, how to get out, Always be watching but he's saying within half an hour, like this outside is just like and it's just gonna be just drunk So maybe go out for like a just like with Fidel and his other It is a pretty dark reality who are human trafficked, It's estimated that come up here from Yeah, we're gonna try and avoid anything that looks sketchy, but ultimately call it early Ready for a night out in the This is one of the sketchiest places that I've been to You feel like the eyes and everything like... I don't belong here and I should not be here right now Wow! Too wild Wrapping up the night with super early at another mine. - Thank you, brother. Thank you. I appreciate you! No goodbye. -See you later. See you in Cusco It's so cold, I can't sleep. I'm at 70% blood oxygen level, which is an improvement from 66%. I just went out, just saw I got than anything that we've ever seen before. Yeah, there's always like an for the life that we've been blessed with. To just have a hot shower, And to be the floor here is like And it's these little things There's so many people to be able to make ends meet. Just some thoughts with my funny, going I'm wearing long johns, some heat socks, And we'll see you for sunrise for some pretty epic drone shots Good morning It's 5.30 AM Not much sleep. In fact, no sleep at all. I I have one of the strongest headaches I counted, I peed eight times in I wasn't even drinking that Let's see how Cory's doing. I have a massive headache right now. I swear, going to the bathroom felt like My heartrate by the time I got back to bed and I was just peeing it felt like I just ran a mile. That's when I got a little scared, Should we give it like a quick check? Well, this is better than the night. The night I was beeping We came out to just capture some of what's happening in the morning and we're still getting those very long stares. People confused at what we're doing here with a With a RED and a camera like that. I was reflecting on and just this very intense experience that we went through and it's like like waking up at the bottom of a but being up during the night and and hearing gunshots, and hearing breaking bottles. It's this weird paradox between being in one of the most beautiful but also seeing the worst of what This is like, what, the third fight A lot of hostility. Yeah! Maybe that's our You met the nicest guy in Oh, wow! Yeah, I think this is the best how 50,000 people live in We managed to fly the drone the scale of what's Apparently where the glacier is, is So they are very keen to just get through it. It's really dangerous because there's tunnels that are inside of the mountain, underneath the glacier. There's nobody caring about the structural integrity of anything. So it almost feels like a ticking time bomb that the mine has been operating since the '70s and hundreds of thousands of people have come through to do this and And it's just layers upon layers upon layers no proper inspection. I pray that people stay safe and that before it becomes this catastrophic news headline of thousands because one of the shafts My intention as we leave We're talking about how to take a hot shower when we get there, to be able to have a seat for the toilet. All these little things in our daily life and we don't I think trips like this and being in places the blessing that it is to be living a You don't need to leave to come to the most dangerous Thank you everyone for joining, and thank you Corey for Always being the wizard behind the camera, behind the drone And we'll see you next week. We haven't said that in a very long