If we don't do anything about it Bushido will soon completely fade away... And at some point it will be impossible to remember even what the good and positive teachings were about. Then, what can we do? My answer is... If you study about samurai culture and history, you'd most certainly come across "Wu Shi Dao Bushido," the way of the warriors. I'm sure you know about it as the "samurai code" that made the samurai stronger and bolder, and there are many movies, video games, ...But what if I told you that cherishing Bushido might be ruining Japan? I was very shocked to read this book, written by a social psychologist professor Yamagishi Toshio, where he explains that "Japan must discard Bushido right away So today, I would love to share with you what I've learned from this book, and also my opinions as a Japanese man studying multiple traditional cultures, by summarizing the content into 3 sections. 1. Japan is a "strange" groupism (collectivist) society 2. Bushido is the virtue of a groupism (collectivist) world 3. Should we really discard Bushido? By watching this video, you will be able to deepen your understanding towards the characteristics of Japanese people, and find out about the fundamental reasons for many of our social problems in Japan today. However the definition of Bushido (and also groupism/individualism) there are many people with different ideas. In this video, I will fully stick to the definition I understand that this is a very complicated topic, so I hope that you can comment your thoughts below so we can have a constructive discussion together. Even if you get confused somewhere during the middle of the story, that's ok. I will wrap everything up at the end of the video in "Today's conclusion." In order to understand why Bushido may ruin Japan, we must first understand that Japan is a society based on groupism. To make a long story short, "groupism" is a term that refers to ideas and tendencies The opposite is "individualism," the idea of denying the authority of the state/society You might be able to express it as "Socialism" vs. "Capitalism," or "Seniority system" vs. "Merit system" too. There is a high chance that these terms but here I will follow the definition in this book. How did Japan come to be a society based on groupism (socialism/seniority)? Let's take a look at these 2 main reasons: the natural environment, the social system during the Edo period. 1. The natural environment Japan is an island nation with a lot of natural disasters. Japan is only a mere 0.28% of land on earth, but has 7% of all active volcanoes and 10% of all earthquakes. This is because Japan is located above 4 crystal plates out of 10. What's more horrifying is that, 20% of them happen in Japan. Also, an average of 26 typhoons pass near or over Japan every year, and sediment disasters often occur after heavy rain because about 70% of land in Japan are mountains. These environmental characteristics have forced Japanese people because we had nowhere to run. No matter how strong a leader/warrior you were, It also meant that the people were very sensitive and would attack/kick out anyone who were uncooperative because having one selfish person could lead So as a natural instinct, Japanese people learned that the best survival technique is to not stand out and not to pursue personal interests, which is exactly what "groupism" is. By the way, it is very interesting that in many Japanese movies, scenes of "despair" are expressed by the characters facing the ocean. From this, you can understand that from ancient times, Japanese people have suffered thinking, "I want to change my life, but I can't run away from this reality/community" due to Japan being an island nation. 2. The social system during the Edo period However you might be thinking... But Shogo, weren't periods like the sengoku war era pretty chaotic? Yes, there were times in Japanese history where it seems like many people were fighting for their own ambitions, and cooperating with each other in order to survive was quite normal anywhere in the world to a certain point. The critical event that established groupism in Japan today is the social system during the Edo period, This period's biggest characteristic was that which in some studies is considered to be in the history of the whole world. Such a long term of peace was possible due to the clever political measures laid out by the Tokugawa/Edo shogunate, that basically strengthened the groupism system 1. Dividing the land into clans and creating the family register system so people cannot easily leave their hometowns 2. Dividing the people into social classes, and determining where they can live, 3. Restricting trade and the movement to foreign countries 4. Excluding Buddhism teachings and introducing neo-confucianism to educate that protecting faces and always obeying superiors are a virtue During the Edo period, it was very common for samurai clans/individual families to have their privileges taken away by the government, if they ever were to "not act like a noble warrior" or "go against discipline" and lose their honor. This is why they were always afraid about which is a characteristic you can see It's hard to believe that a single government was able and actually succeed in controlling the people but looking back from the present day, you would know this is true. By putting much emphasis on such &quot;harmony,&quot; not only was it peaceful for 250 years, but it also caused an unusual situation of &quot;hardly no economic growth at all" through the whole period. Next, let's take a look at what kind of characteristics were born due to these reasons. 1. Keeping harmony is the top priority, it's more important than the actual progress/development 2. People have an advanced ability to "read the air (sense the mood)" and sense relationships between people within the group 3. Each person will try to act good and be polite to not stand out, regardless of what they are truly thinking 4. People will automatically trust the people within their community, because there is hardly any merit 5. People will be extremely exclusive against outsiders, because the common rules and system of the group ....Sounds really Japan-ish right? The author of this book points out that all the things is not because Japan is a nice or special country; it was simply a survival strategy for Japanese people to live within the system. For example... 1. "Good manners and discipline" were only for you to not be seen as a person without common sense 2. "Humbleness" was only for not standing out 3. "Cleanliness of the environment" was only for not getting in trouble with any neighbors due to problems about dirtiness By the way, there is a very interesting experiment introduced in this book that asked Japanese people two questions... 1. Do you think Japanese people are individualists or groupists? 2. Are YOU an individualist or a groupist? The results might surprise you... 90% of people answered that "Japanese people are groupists," but at the same time 50% answered that Which means that about half of the people said This might sound like a contradiction, but it proves that most people just go with the crowd because they believe that everyone else and they don't actually care much about Groupism in Japan is not about "everyone caring about each other but more of "everyone only cares about themselves, and as a result they chose to act good and not speak out for their personal benefits." Even if the group was heading towards a cliff, if we are all falling and going to suffer together that's ok. Because I don't want to be the one to stand out by speaking up and pointing out the actual problem. However I must make it very clear that this doesn't mean Obviously there is no perfect social system, because if it did exist we should have solved The 250 years of peace during the Edo period was a miracle, and the politeness of the people and cleanness of the environment, regardless of the motivations, are a good thing. The problem is not about whether groupism is good or bad, it is... Japan does not have an environment suitable Japan is not an isolated island like it once was in the past, and globalization/capitalism has already been We can wear whatever we want to, can change our jobs, However, as I've pointed out in my past videos, Japan strangely clings on to the "groupism culture," by teaching the young to be NORMAL through education, always prioritizing the elderly's opinion, My mother for example, when she used to scold me for any mistakes I've made when I was a child, she would say... "You are going to embarrass ME in front of others!" She was more afraid of what others would think of her, having a son that doesn't behave properly more than my own future or consequences I will experience. I'm not the only one that was told this. When my mother herself told her mother (my grandmother) "You are an embarrassment! Take another example, the tiresome rules in the business world like the greeting cards, upper and lower seats, and overtime work... Have you ever wondered why Japan can't stop following the annoying rules? Why do Japanese people work for long hours Why can't Japanese people change jobs It is because again, "Harmony" and "how people will see you" The benefits of following these rules and systems in the past, were because the group would protect you, provide you a place in society, and cooperate with you when you were in trouble. However, most companies have abandoned the "lifetime employment system." Local communities are disappearing or losing connections. Families are becoming more and more isolated. This means that we have inherited just the negative parts of groupism and are not taking in the positive parts of individualism. Why is Japan continuously suffocating itself? Why do we still care so much about Yes, it's because we still see BUSHIDO as a virtue. Before we start talking about why and how cherishing BUSHIDO we need to make the definition of this word in this book clear. To put it simple, "BUSHIDO is the ideal human image formed mainly in the Edo period, in other words a virtue in the groupism world." Which means it is the perfect person that fitted These are some of the fundamental morals/teachings of BUSHIDO 1. Protect rules and traditions 2. Follow those stronger than you and be loyal 3. Be brave and exclusive to keep strangers out 4. Take revenge to defeat enemies 5. Lie if it is necessary Again, the ultimate purpose of all of these morals are "the unity of the members that are part of the group." BUSHIDO taught Japanese people that "keeping things the way they are (protecting traditions)" is always the priority, and the orders of superiors are absolute. They were exclusive in order to keep any outsiders and anyone who is brave enough to fight and take revenge if necessary because they were the ones who were protecting If you are familiar with the story of the 47 ronin or Shinsengumi which are both considered as representative stories you would probably immediately realize that their actions and purposes to kill others are not logical at all, but come from pure loyalty to their lords. You might think the last "lie if it is necessary" is surprising, but again the goodwill of individuals being honest is shunned, and for unity/harmony of the group or following the will of your lords, lying to yourself and others was considered something good as well. Because the Edo period was able to make the samurai they were able to create a peaceful era with no wars, in exchange for "almost no economical progress" for more than 250 years. Whenever social problems such as bullying in schools, the corruption of politicians and businesses, and the young going bad (gangs/prostitutes) are shown on the media, there are many Japanese people who say, "Oh where has our noble dignity (bushido) gone!?" "We need to revive the good and old honorable minds of the samurai!" If you go to a bookstore in Japan today, you will find many self-development books talking about and many of them are quite popular. However, I believe you already understand that trying to promote BUSHIDO It's almost like you're trying to ride a boat even after you've reached land, and you're making the young suffer and die by making them row that boat on the ground and saying "this is the right way things should be done." Much concrete data, like the most number of young the most number of mental hospitals in the world, being one of the countries that has the biggest gender gap, hundreds and thousands of cats and dogs slaughtered by the government, and the most amount of pesticides and food additives in the world, are proof that there is something wrong with Japan. It is repeatedly emphasized in this book that Japan You can leave your hometown or the country anytime you want to, communities and companies will not protect you anymore, and there is no such thing as a "lord" that you have to die for. What we need are actual results and productivity, not a diploma of a good school or a good status within a company that's only meant to be seen as an excellent person within the group. We need real connections with people linked with honesty, not being fearful of "the system" that always forces you We need deeper relationships with other countries around the world, not hating people that you've never even met before just because they have a different nationality. Before I end this video, I would like to share my opinions As a man training in multiple Japanese traditional cultures I had one big question in my mind when I closed this book... Should we really completely discard BUSHIDO? You too might have studied about, or have trained budo martial arts, and have seen BUSHIDO as a positive attitude to create discipline. Although I completely understand that it might have negative effects on our society: good manners, cleanness, punctuality, are all things for example that are seen as the good things about Japan. So my answer to the question is, NO. Because again, we are not talking about whether and there is no correct answer anywhere in this world. I personally believe that Japan should try to seek and preserve the good, and change the old. Unfortunately, no matter how slow Japan might be in making progress, evidently it will eventually shift to an individualistic society. If we don't do anything about it BUSHIDO will soon completely fade away, and at some point it will be impossible to remember even what the good/positive teachings were about. Then, what can we do? My answer is... "To preserve the traditional cultures." In our daily lives we might not need BUSHIDO but I think that training in budo martial arts, would be a great occasion for us to remember what were the good things about BUSHIDO and Japan in the past. This is why I'm training in multiple traditional cultures; it's so that one day I can also help to carry on what Japan has nurtured throughout its few hundred years of history. Of course, this includes many challenges... 1. There are less and less people training in traditional culture and it's becoming more difficult to sustain 2. Even the large organizations of each traditional culture could be corrupt, and the top people are far from living the way of BUSHIDO 3. The term BUSHIDO is sometimes used that Japan should militarize to attack/fight other countries I'm very very far from having an answer and the idea of BUSHIDO itself is very ambiguous and it's just a floating image today. But I can promise you one thing... That I will dedicate my life to finding my BUSHIDO through my training, and I will do everything I can to preserve the good things about Japan that many people around the world look forward to. This is my dream, and this is my "Dao path." Lastly, today's conclusion! "Groupism" is a term that refers to ideas and tendencies Japan developed groupism from its environment and the social system during the Edo period. Although the 250 years of peace during the Edo period was a miracle, today, Japanese society has imported capitalism and globalism, Japan today inherited just the negative parts of groupism for example by forcing the young to obey the elderly under any circumstances This is because many people still see Bushido, The author of the book I've introduced explains that Japan However, I think that there are pros and cons in any social system, and there must be something that we should pass down I know it's a long path but I will dedicate my life to training and teaching traditional culture to preserve the good things So that's it for today! Thank you very much for watching! Please hit the LIKE button to help me boost this video! My goal is to achieve 1,000,000 subscribers by January 2023, so your help would mean a lot! In this channel, you can take a closer look at Japanese traditional culture, tips on traveling to Kyoto, and social problems in Japan. So learners and lovers of Japanese language and culture, be sure to subscribe to enjoy more content! Also please check out our sub-channel and membership in the description box! Thanks again, and I'll see you in my next video.