Bill Gates owns more land than York. Jeff Bezos's land is 420,000 acres. John Malone, the America, owns 2.2 million acres slightly smaller than the island enormous, yet 100 of the richest in America own 1.86% of all the States, the majority of their farmland, Some people like myself find nice place to live. Land is only getting more farmland was valued at less than inflation. By 2020, that number It's expensive. So if somebody primarily people of wealth who can afford it. Institutional becoming a bigger piece of the asset class when you look at the However, not everyone is farmland prices, It's going to continue to be beginning farmers like myself, Everything's going up. Land is critical. And it's it's the persist as communities and as something that we don't think So why are the ultra wealthy impact will it have on the Bill Gates made headlines for farmland owner in the U.S. He 269,000 acres of farmland across shielding is purchased by buying Why? It's a good economic Land has always been something of real means have have desired. Beyond that, it is a limited any more of it. And in fact, farmland all the time. In the farmland at a rate of about only more and more important less of it. So it's an asset Farmland values began rising in year declines in 2009 and 2016, increase over the years. In the at less than $1500 an acre. By $3,160 an acre. It's not correlated with the asset classes and so people like been a very stable performer. If stock market, you know, lost 10, COVID, you don't wake up and fin cents on the dollar the next da Bill Gates is not the only one the top 100 largest private million acres of land across the number has grown to over 42 .1 of Florida and Connecticut onions, carrots and even McDonald's french fries. Thomas private landowner in the US The reason I own lands in the agricultural lands, right? And right? I'm not farming in If someone is really interested with farmers, once you own one the parcels that are adjacent to purchases quietly, it might be a those purchases economically. They are not one large smaller pieces, and they were The vast majority of the land landowners are forest, ranches, west of the Mississippi River and Florida. When we think about farmland, we you know, the most fertile, most And I liken it to being the look at Iowa, Illinois, those you look at California, Northwest, up in Washington and Delta, those are some other lot of that major capital agricultural productivity is. Today, the US Department of of all farmland is owned by themselves. Buyers often have owned it for decades. Many maybe cash poor. The way the market works is the the people who will pay the most farmland gets purchased by I think many farmers would like agricultural production, would farmer. But the economic that they've spent their life equity is all in the land and Institutional capital is growing of the market. And it is part of happening when you look at the farmland. A profit can also be made by ways. Approximately 39% of the across the US is rented out to farmland is owned by landlords For a lot of non-farmers who hire somebody to farm the lease the property to be farmed actually often a very good well structured lease. What Midwest cropland cap rates, it's close to two and a half right and you put that cash rental be looking at about 2.5 percent In some cases, there are tax landowners to have farming that is giving them a tax break that the farmers who are leasing in some cases, mean that t e price as well. The involveme a significant impact on farmers n its support, suggesting that t s given new opportunities f e able to afford to far One of the biggest barriers for cost of farmland. And one way good lease agreement with a successfully without having that Young farmers are just as happy whether you are young or old, business of farming is becoming are the people who concern There are the people who do the and work the machines. And then the produce. So efficient doing the whole thing. Those who are against the idea compete with the likes of Bill land. People are swooping in that community and land grabbing. be able to purchase property But somebody that lives here, grass next door because that lot picks up the trash on the purchase property and they have and hoops. With increasing competition on land, it really puts farmers in they are not competing against as them. I pursued the purchase of a 10 month. And the owners ask for property in Kentucky. $1.75 afford that, you know, but a able to take that offer, you from under me, because they And while leasing might sound often puts farmers in a tricky The problem with leasing is that the long-term security that they business. If someone is saying, land, now, you have the option can put farmers in a really In some areas, the engagement of to soaring housing prices and When you look at these rural winners and losers in terms of When you get into the where they've lost a lot of the industry that has evolved some of these towns really industry and that's created a agriculture. The jury is out on whether for good or bad for agriculture. make its way to the market in look at the demographics around to think that farmers are going transitions over the next 20 fashion, about 50% of the over over the next 25 years. With this time, I would say that not large purchases by the ultra thing. But I honestly do believe with the ability to look long right by the land, and maybe be land to incoming farmers at be positive. And so I'm hopeful There are fewer and fewer and there are a slight increase but really at this point not who are leaving the industry. So we really need to support them possible.