Today, I want to share with you my three very success for you. First thing, when you go into an interview, you're talking about your accomplishments. So, let me tell you what I mean by that. So, when you quantify your results, you're you the job and you're clearly separating connecting with prospective employers and and that's really the key. When most people go into an interview, they about that they're really good, &quot;I'm really projects, I'm really good at analyzing reports&quot; done it. And that's really the key; when you can tell measure it. So, for example, if you're in sales, you don't software, I'm really good at selling things&quot;. You want to tell them what you're good at sold, how you've met quota, how you've received Just walk them through your sales track record Another example would be if you're a project Don't just say, &quot;I know how to manage projects&quot;. You want to walk them through. Talk about the tools that you've used to manage sat on projects, talk about how you reach entire process. Tell them that you have developed projects, on time, under budget and put dollar figures You want to put a number to something because says, &quot;I worked on projects with a million and we did it on time and under budget&quot;. Those are the kind of things employers want your results. What most people say when they go into an my goals will be to meet and exceed the requirements Now if you think about that, what does that It doesn't say anything; that's just a bunch And you can really differentiate yourself your results. Talk about specifics; don't just say that Talk about how you've done it before, what you can, put a number to it. It means so much more when you can put a number. And don't just use general numbers; don't project&quot;. If it was a $2.2 million project you worked If it was a $50 thousand project, then say Put specific numbers to quantify your results competition. Seriously! Do this. Most people when they go in, they just get which they're really not even experience statements, They're saying you're really good at doing But you need to do better than that because of other people who are competing for this So, you need to differentiate yourself from not going to hear back. I guarantee it. If you don't go in there and clearly differentiate employer what you can do, how you can do it going to go very far in the interview process out of this rut. When you do all this, this is going to show and that you have a plan for this job. Most people don't. Most people don't have a plan. They just want the job. They just go in there and they hope and they them and give them the job. Now, wrong attitude. Go in there, show them why you are the right Okay? Next one. Never take silence as a sign that an employer I can't tell you how many times I hear from had an interview and I didn't hear back. It's been a week. What should I do? Are they not interested in me?&quot; I really don't know. I'm not a fortune teller. I can't really say for sure but I encourage they're not interested in you. A lot of things can happen. Companies are big and there's a lot of things own internal structure and they don't move Maybe they said they're going to get back That doesn't mean that they're not interested That's not what that means at all. Maybe they're still interviewing, maybe someone emergency and they had to put this position You don't really know. So, the thing to do is to call them. Pick up the phone and call them and find out And the best way to do this is at the end want to say, &quot;When do you plan to make a decision Now, if they say within one or two weeks, So, if you don't hear from them within one I know you said you planned to make a decision back; What is the status of the position?&quot; And maybe they'll say, &quot;Oh, we had to put somebody else&quot; that's a possibility or maybe We forgot about you&quot; or &quot;We lost your information&quot; But the key here is don't let that silence Just because you didn't hear from them, it you. You need to continue the conversation. Call them up, e-mail them, find out what's inside. Whether it's good or bad; they're either going you&quot; or &quot;Yes we are, but we're just not ready So, call and find out what's holding them make you feel better inside and then you can So, instead of sitting around on the sidelines Pick up the phone and call them or email them And when you pick up the phone and you call in working there. Now, they know that when I call them up and I'm really interested in that job&quot; they know Because when they interview 10 or 20 people, is not. I mean, if all those people; all 20 people, Probably only half of those people are interested highly interested. I encourage you to be one of those 10 percent. Be the really interested, be enthusiastic That's actually the perfect lead into the You need to be enthusiastic about the job If you just go in there and say, &quot;Hi, I'm I'd like to work here. I think I'd be great.&quot; Would you really want to hire somebody with Put yourself in their position for a minute. Would you want to hire somebody with that I don't think so. You want somebody that wants the job, that's they've already showed you that they can do they've followed up with you and now they're So, how do you show or demonstrate enthusiasm. I mean, it's hard to teach enthusiasm; you You just can't fake being enthusiastic. Enthusiasm is your own personal level of interest for a company. It shows how excited you are to be there. The expressions on your face, the tone of things all rolled into one. That's enthusiasm and you have to demonstrate I'm trying to be enthusiastic when I make because I want to convey my point to you to that you need to be at. I think the root of enthusiasm is your level And when you're confident in yourself and shines through. It just can't help, it wants to get out and Now, if you're not overly excited or enthusiastic to get it. And if you're not enthusiastic about the job; this job is and that it's going to be more end up sabotaging yourself so you don't get I mean, self-sabotage is a whole another topic. But if you're not overly excited and enthusiastic I mean, there's something about this job that that question. I mean, you can't just go in there and fake You can't fake that you're enthusiastic about Maybe the root is that you need the money. You need the money for this job, you have you're willing to just roll up your sleeves That kind of attitude I admire, but it's the You can't force yourself into a job, you can't force yourself to be happy doing something So, if you're not enthusiastic about the job, Just get yourself some pen and paper and write job and write down the reasons that you don't. And if there's more reasons about why you don't like about it, maybe you shouldn't do Because what ends up happening is when you want, you don't get them and then it ends Because if you keep getting turned down by and it's going to make it a lot harder for going to feel that nobody wants you. You're going to feel that employers don't you down, beating you down; lower and lower And all along, it's because you're trying don't really want to be in. You need to want this job for more than just I mean, the money is great, we have to have job because of what it is and the value that this company or whatever it is, how you can own needs. And in return, they're going to help you meet grow in your career, they're going to pay But if you're not enthusiastic about helping you. They're not going to be enthusiastic about The key here is when you're enthusiastic and this job, you want it really bad, more than of excitement is going to attract an employer. It's going to make them reach out to you and you really should work here. That's what your enthusiasm is going to do. It's going to make them attracted to you. And when they're attracted to you and you're that's when the job offer rolls in, that's their needs and you see that they can help You have to have that mutual attraction there And that's why you need enthusiasm. You need to be enthusiastic. Enthusiasm is the root of everything in a I encourage you to be enthusiastic. So, from the top; qualify your results, never interested and be enthusiastic my friend. Be enthusiastic and this will change everything That's all I have for you today. Thanks again for watching this video or if Thank you. If you found it helpful, make sure you share and to my channel.