- [Jordan] What happens when and this ring, which sort of resembles fall into a garbage disposal. - [Announcer] Wasted. - [Jordan] The question I did it before back in 2015, and it was this post that led to not one, but two different people across the United States sending me their destroyed rings. Do I have what it takes to restore them to their original glory? Will my name go down in history as the Garbage Disposal Whisperer? Let's find out. But first, I want you to You've just signed up for and it's taught by Chef Gordon Ramsay. But instead of only learning from a bunch of pre-recorded videos, you also get to text Gordon himself. - [Gordon] It's raw, - So here's the big news. I've created that dream but for future jewelers like you. Instead of Gordon Ramsay teaching you how to cook the perfect Beef Wellington, you get me, which is a very similar comparison. Enrollment is now open and my class will cover everything A bench set-up guide, cleaning and polishing, soldering, jewelry This class is really perfect for hobbyists or even those looking for a fun career. You can literally go from zero experience to creating your own To join the class, find the link down in the description below or visit benchclass.com. Make sure you act fast. Full registration ends on September 22nd and the class won't start Back to the task at hand. These garbage disposals really did a number on these rings. So a fair number of you might and garbage disposals are rarely found like outside of the United States 'cause we're all about comfort One shocked person visiting the USA asked, what on earth? I'm so confused. I just saw someone throw their food into the sink and it just disappears, and doesn't clog and Garbage disposals are different They're attached under your sink, and are able to grind up These contraptions are due to a fear that the additional the plumbing systems. The grinder is activated by a switch, so it's not constantly running. Sometimes though things will go down into the garbage disposal, like a spoon or even a ring, and you have to stick your hand down in there and fish it out. If you've never had to do this before, I can tell you it is one of the most unnerving sensations ever. So basically these machines which are only supposed to grind up food somehow got fed a platinum So if you're anything like me you might be asking yourself, how did this even happen? And not once, but twice. - I'm Jason and I'm a newlywed. Recently, I was at my parents' house and I was either washing Regardless, I was there and without realizing, my slipped off my finger and gone I was maybe five or 10 and realized it was gone. When I called back, when I asked him to get it out, he said he'd already used the disposal. When I got home, the ring and so was my heart. Thankfully, I was able through my wife to find Jordan, the Modern Goldsmith online. - Heading to the bench. It's time to work some magic. So the first thing I And that ring is looking pretty round, like a real ring again. And now that it's round, there's an inscription on the &quot;Two worlds, one family.&quot; That sounds familiar. Yes. Put your faith in what Two worlds, one family - [Jordan] The gold ring will To guide these lives we see - [Jordan] Now that both I'll take them to my ring sizer tool and compress them down a couple of sizes. I do this to re-establish the edges of the rings that got so badly mangled. Now that I've put them it's time to anneal them with fire. Once annealed, I will up to the correct finger size. Next, it's time to fill in the gouges. The really cool thing about platinum is that it can actually weld together with other platinum To do this, I'll cut very and place them over the Bringing a flame to near the thin slices will weld Now looking at the gold ring, there really are so many deep gouges and unfortunately, I in the same way I did the platinum. You see, that would just melt the gold. Instead, I would need to use which is a possibility, but I'm not sure I want to do that. After conversing with my clients, they said they really wanted the ring to look exactly the way it &quot;Almost like something out of In that moment, I knew the best way to fulfill his wishes would be It's safe to say the garbage disposal won this round. Yet hope remains, while the company is true for the garbage disposal was deceived for another ring will be made in the fires of Mount Doom! So yeah, I am just going to 3D print it. I like the idea of casting the ring because I can first to get the ring profile Another benefit to casting the ring verse rolling it out by hand is that it'll be one solid The ring model will be grown And layer by layer over the ring takes shape. I then cut the ring off the build platform and soak it briefly in alcohol. With the ring model ready, it's time to sprew it up using wax. This is the first step in The ring is then covered and the holes are covered up with tape. The flask will be filled which is sort of whipped together like a forbidden pancake batter. It's then brought to the a vacuum is used to pull air The mix is then poured down into the flask, burying our ring model. Then it's back to the investment table. More air is sucked out and oopsie. I overfilled the flask. Not to worry too much. I'll scoop up this eruption and cap off the rest of the flask. It is now left to cure for a few hours. At this point, the base is removed and the wax ring is now You can see the yellow peeking through. This wax will be burned out in a kiln. There are a very specific on how this wax is to be burned out. It involves ramping the It will go from roughly 300 to 800 to 1400 degrees, then down to 900, which is my casting temperature. The whole burnout process The hot flask is then carefully removed and placed down into the casting chamber. The chamber acts as a vacuum which will help pull the melted A few grams of 14 karat gold are added to the ring to freshen up the alloy and create a buffer. You always want to have a The gold is then melted and After the metal briefly cools, the flask is quenched in water. The quenching immediately and I can now fish around for that ring. And there we have it, one beautifully clean casting. Back at the bench, I'll use a saw to cut off the excess gold, also referred to as a button. This will be recycled for future projects. Using a flat file, I'll begin to blend the gold and clean up the raw casting. I also love using these They do an excellent job while preserving the material And at this point, it's time to add the gold hallmark by stamping the ring. A hallmark identifies the gold purity, which in this case is 14 karat. Back now to the platinum ring. I've already filled in so now I'm going to burnish This hammering tool does a great job at folding the metal in and over itself. In short, burnishing is a and dings without removing any metal. This brass hammer does its part in evening out the metal after burnishing. To smooth out the ring, of light filing and sanding wheels. Then comes this nice spread of Platinum is notoriously so the trick is to gradually move from coarse to fine grade sanding. And just like the gold, I'll now stamp the hallmark into the ring. This time for platinum. Everything is looking great so far and it's time to take these Polishing might be only 5% of the work, but it makes all the difference. I talk a lot about this in my course, so if you want to astonish your friends with your polishing skills, join the class. I got you covered. And platinum is actually really so I need to use a separate I'll lap up the sides of the platinum ring using this rock hard flat felt wheel. We want to polish the insides of the rings to make it nice and smooth. Now for the outside, I'll use a soft buffing that beautiful sheen of the gold. And again, a new wheel for platinum. Once both rings are polished, they're hung in this basket and dropped down into After some minutes, I'll use my steamer to blast away any remaining compounds. In the platinum ring, the original inscription and didn't survive refurbishing. So I'll add that back now. Put your faith in what Two worlds, one family Trust your heart, let fate decide To guide these lives we see - [Jordan] It's time for the final reveal. Two heavily damaged rings Two gentlemen get their Is it safe to say I saved two marriages? I do what I can. Will the name Modern Goldsmith with garbage disposals? Only time will tell. I just hope I don't have to stick my hand down one anytime soon.