Alex Ferrari: This episode is Hustle Academy, where filmmakers from top Hollywood industry ifhacademy.com. I like to welcome the show, Jason? Jason Blum: Very good. How are Alex Ferrari: I'm doing very coming on the show. Man. I'm budget independent filmmaker, different level than I do or met Hollywood at this point. But I'd like the mentality Jason Blum: Well, you too, we Alex Ferrari: Yes. And I think other interviews is like the is it's immensely like rather I'll make 20 movies or $100 Jason Blum: Yeah, I love low chances you know, you can make other movies, you can work you maybe you don't have the biggest and you can kill the lead after can make movies about gun makes everyone nervous. And I Alex Ferrari: So how did you get Jason Blum: Let's see, I got I I went to college with Noah filmmaker, Writer Director. And a movie called kicking and kids. In college I was one of he wrote the script and my produce this together. We had no said the to every rich person we One guy who was actually one of investor in a movie company in almost made kicking and summer they said I'm not going you a job. And Dennis the movie business and I worked arrow entertainment for three started Alex Ferrari: And then you know, forward to paranormal activity. film like that? And I mean, the Jason Blum: So yes, so later maybe 10 years later I was recently moved to Los Angeles to Hollywood which is complicated look deal i but i did overall look deal with it with a guy who's who is who's a producer, known for 100 movies you should movies you should see before you edits that series of books. So those books and started his was pretty good. And he's really horror movies. And, and he is brought my attention to to the was actually sent to us as a we were told by the agent that directly to DVD but that we director and Steven and I both or Steven showed me the movie could work in a movie theater. was it was a long journey from in the theater was actually Alex Ferrari: When you were job in an arrow what was the wish you would have told your learn the hard way during those Jason Blum: That's a lesson I don't know it's a lesson but the is to try and be a little less you know maybe maybe that's what anxious about everything but but have told my former self to Alex Ferrari: But you seemed a mean you've chilled a bit over I general. I mean as you get Jason Blum: I'm more relaxed yeah. Some of this when I was 22 Alex Ferrari: Oh, can you the only one that ever said Jason Blum: His so great to be wasted on Alex Ferrari: With with our the damage we could do Jesus. was it kind of like a you open frustrations you had with the have like making big budget to like if you make a small you've got to make another that is that one of the reasons Jason Blum: Yeah you know my dad up in a in a in an environment seemed possible and I worked for definitely want my own company I not my frustration in Hollywood for other people I just I did didn't didn't it did not work way I didn't want to do things to do them and and that that's my I mean my own company was me company was me and my apartment assistant would come you know we nine to five or whatever and the know tried to sell movie scripts made them we got these little pretty crappy movies but we got that was that was what drove me we you know when we was really idea of an independent movie that seemed like the kind of I wanted to pursue as as a model Alex Ferrari: And then tell me universal came because you have incredible deals in Hollywood I exist anywhere else when I heard did he get that and then the mean, you're only as good as how did that relationship even did you convince a major studio Jason Blum: I made a I made the Paramount and then a second kicked me off the lot and the credit for themselves wow that and my my dear friend and CIA had a lunch with Donna and still does and Donna said to bring back the monsters and the Hollywood and Brian said you first deal with universal with a and and we I made a deal there couldn't I couldn't it wasn't mean, I didn't have any other should say, and it turned out it was a it was a real leap of I'll always be indebted to her Alex Ferrari: So what was the original urge? It was it was the Monaco Jason Blum: James Monaco's movie it in this little this theater screening and all of universals the new horror guy you know all the grass from Universal and a half million dollar movie the company released it Adam was great but but but it was Alex Ferrari: So when you work because James was I don't know purge I think he's just in but when you work with James on that million dollars thinking about purge is like,really that's all Jason Blum: It is 2.7 Alex Ferrari: It looks so it was like the first big thing for about the James have Final Cut you like did you have that power Jason Blum: You know had Final That's right. Mike Kobe's a guys drew and Brad, who was them and we were like, let's do all. And, and they gave us a said Great, let's do it. And gonna give you a movie of ours give something of us to me to made the movie he gave us but a purge TV show all of which Michael Bay had Final Cut on he Final Cut on every purge movie Alex Ferrari: That's I mean, and like whether you love him or movies he's an absolute genius Jason Blum: I was just I just with Jake Gyllenhaal who started get the best advice from you directors from actors always else. And and Jake was just best directors if not the best that he's ever worked with like you know really great at this at thing but also movie making you I've never been I've made the him a lot of money. I never unbeliev Alex Ferrari: You can't even get sakes. I haven't tried to call what are you kind of laid out what are the few of the rules have to abide by for a blumhouse Jason Blum: On the movie side movie, you know, we have to have can either have a lot of parts or a couple of special can't have you can't have more really, it's a funny way of scope of these movies has to be know, not too many locations not no special effects, or very effects. And you have to be participation if the movie makes money then you're not going to Alex Ferrari: And and why do you or the town starting to copy first came out and you had like oh my god, I'm gonna have studios are gonna obviously be that way. But were you afraid of Jason Blum: You know, I'm very i don't i don't i don't you don't have a lot of fear. I'm no, I mean, I was annoyed if I was afraid of that. I was I when someone else has a horribly competitive about that. place almost send me to my Alex Ferrari: But you had get you did okay, Jason Blum: I wanted all the quiet place Alex Ferrari: When when Jordan that get? I mean, did you how because Did anyone think this Jason Blum: No one wanted to script was laying around for a thought the script was great. I We talked about race in the comfortable. I was we're gonna to be able to talk I remember true? Like if there's a party there's like one other black acknowledge that? And he's like, I, I'm never in a party where white person, it wouldn't occur each other, like, here we are. And, and I found it, you know, about race and, and, and he had wanted to do with a movie and know, we loved it. And we we, we it and the rest is history. Alex Ferrari: No, when? Yeah, it All right. Yeah, it did. Okay. interviews you did that you got, Oscar. But I didn't. I thought Jason Blum: So honestly, you booby prize, Alex Ferrari: Now, when you work question. Now, when you work you know, looking at your Jason Blum: They did a mistake mistake. I mean, that's that we that yeah yeah yeah I mean separate Oscar ceremony to the best picture Academy Award won that Alex Ferrari: Obviously that I door any second any second now that from looking at your you work with a lot of times that I don't think there's ever of them Jason Blum: The blumhouse there stuff like that there are but rarely are Jordan techlink it well, Joel Egerton, technically both of them had a lot of set Alex Ferrari: Right? It wasn't they knew how to Yeah, they a grip was. Jason Blum: Which is more than I Alex Ferrari: So when you're lot of the filmmakers you work filmmaker jail, and then they filmmaker jail, you know, like because and I love what I did, films, he was just kind of like, always insane to me. Like how an M Night Shyamalan like, how, Tom work that way? But when he's back. He's back, baby it opportunities back to these Jason Blum: I did. I brought to the curb. It's outrageous. Alex Ferrari: But it seems like that you are money. You're in that's the term that's been Jason Blum: Was that yeah, I less that now and all series we that's because when we started a there was there were a lot of not working. And that's no there's so much work now in TV There's just so much work now replicate what we used to do idea of like Moneyball for really, you can't really do it working so much. But definitely of the company. I thought I used no, it's funny to hear you say one knew what the hell I was but that's exactly what we did. hollywood looks at your last body of work, which is insane. at the body of work like, Huh, he did two movies that didn't and directed the like the most successful horror franchises can think of a horror movie. I that was James Wan, you know? Alex Ferrari: Yeah. And when you again, Hollywood is just such a in its DNA, this whole concept almost ego like you know, it cool kids, the cool kids spent a cool kid. Jason Blum: I'm not a cool kid. lot yeah, Alex Ferrari: But but you make a become a cool kid after the Jason Blum: You think I'm not so the cool kids table? Alex Ferrari: No, but I was I Rodriguez when he did I mean, budget guys in the 90s from a spike it. And it was a huge million, which was a big VFX after he's like, okay, here's me 30 again, I'm good. Jason Blum: I was smart. That one didn't do as much. People every manager and every agent, have a successful movie is to expensive movie, which is which Alex Ferrari: Do you do you find the resistance to your model? Is side, in the talent side, you'd Jason Blum: And look, you know, they now it's better, because of money, but representation, just they're compensated by. right? So they're very, very Now, if you said I'll pay you years, give me the 50 now and client. So it's not it's not they're short sighted. It's just aligned. And the rep is really aligned like the client three years. The agent is kind now and then go to the other the way the system is set up i hard to really blame people for Alex Ferrari: Fair enough now heard somewhere that you give filmmakers that you work with Is final Jason Blum: We get final and we filmmakers yeah we do not always other than Michael Bay well no that right so we actually did keep it ourselves we gave it to Alex Ferrari: Right exactly. Of is so against the grain in It's almost a myth. Jason Blum: It's disappointing. someone to work for a reduced going to tell you what to do. on yourself, you have to allow they go down sinking, they can mean, if you're really saying in the movie, you can't do those together either either you pay you know you could I would have people are making money up Cut. But if you're not making if you're the director who has far, I think I just like I said, Final Cut from them. Alex Ferrari: Yeah, cuz I and those guys started getting they were handing out Final Cut the 80s. In the old days, but have that kind of control. But I such a low budget, you can, you you just don't do and it's hard It's just very difficult. Jason Blum: Yeah, that's what I do it. Final Cut has only of the there have only been like, less really hurt us and hurt the ratio. Alex Ferrari: That's not a bad yeah. Now what some of your other or VOD and others go is your determinating factor on Jason Blum: Well sometimes it's the blumhouse all these movies Alex Ferrari: directly to Dell. Jason Blum: When we make an I screened the movie in front of time it's very clear if you show audience, the movie is people in a movie theater in play in the theater or it's or may be kind of different and it be you know the audience you audience is not like the movie gonna work in a movie theater. do limited releases we either do a really wide release or we go to ancillaries to VOD or to different places you can order Alex Ferrari: Now you have the of records of note some are dubious. Jason Blum: Oh what Am I bad hear immediately. Alex Ferrari: Is it the widest Jason Blum: Now got we got we Yeah, no, you gave it up. Oh, we my god. partner here. Do you that ask Cooper? He knows. Okay, us. I was sorry to see it go. I Alex Ferrari: That's what I'm torn up about it. Jason Blum: I was real torn off Alex Ferrari: Now, I have this wanted to ask you what makes a Jason Blum: The name blumhouse interview is going to be a great very I don't know what it is. drunk and I haven't even done Cooper. What is the movie that ride release? Lois gross. Ah Beatty I want to say no you knew this record you know remember? You're Live on the Air right? Air in a in a live interview. Alex Ferrari: Hi, Cooper. No, no Jason Blum: What's going on? Can facetiming your mother no your rock the Kasbah that was same week no no no no no are you now? Coming up without answers don't apply the Warren Beatty go over that now view if you Karen and then we'll we'll call interview is going to be one for mean, I love it. Alex Ferrari: I love it. I Jason Blum: rent your mate Have you're just you talked about James now and I mean Alex Ferrari: It's all it's all at this sir. Just like making a good horror movies have Jason Blum: Only good. first you have that you're on a good should survive if you have take with no scares. It should be a has a great story and great story and great acting. Good you have not a good story and have the greatest scares in the won't be scary. You got to get going on lockwise and story wise have a good story you have to believe what they're seeing. So scare, they're so entrenched in for it and then it's scary and you're not going to be scared Alex Ferrari: So yeah, because being you know, they're bad a horror movies out there and then reason for that. What's the Jason Blum: Okay, say you have obviously right the movie by the what's the empty man? Alex Ferrari: Exactly. Jason Blum: Thriller well the empty man took my word as the lowest grossing film of all Alex Ferrari: Wow. Thank you for because yeah, please correct me the Holograms personally. Jason Blum: That movie was great you've done freaky is in a plus it got all screwed up the By the way, I take all the blame all up. But boy what there's filmmaker when you listen if you great and it doesn't work it is of those but when you make a awesome and it doesn't work it's always feel guilty about Chris and we didn't deliver for him always say to our directors if the movie ahead but and I'm with freaky which kills me at wasn't able to deal with Jon Chu the greatest director on the two These are two These are two I try not to let keep me up at Alex Ferrari: But well I think that have been okay, so I think successes. That's true. That's Now do you believe Do you think the perfect embodiment of the rules are concerned of what the Jason Blum: There there are two really there. They're more than perfect high concept low budget. perfect, right kind of high sinister and insidious also where they really embody what a all the boxes that it's this wide appeal movie, made for very great. The story is great. The result, the movies are scary as Alex Ferrari: And like and get biggest set piece was the deer most biggest visual effect, Jason Blum: To goofiest, big scary because you have Allison his it's his. It's his mixed about race and it's like you're what I described, you're on the they're like, Oh, he's like, people. And it's like, oh my god, where's this going and the your seat? Because you're so between the two of them. Alex Ferrari: And the I think I the the difference on being get the most out of the budget there's a waiter that comes to say or she doesn't say, oh, specials they come in, they difference between a day rate of on? Jason Blum: We don't like we and yet waiters never speak in with a pad and they go like Alex Ferrari: Exactly. Because cost difference. Jason Blum: If they speak it Alex Ferrari: And if they don't Jason Blum: A Dell $600 less? Alex Ferrari: It's so funny to someone like yourself who's talk like this, because you Hollywood talk like this. Like something that's talked about is just write it. Jason Blum: It's because they're they're already they've been producer is already made his what do they care of the any money unless these things conscious of where we spend we spend is a dime less we make. always think, you know, movies better if everyone worked for and then made money. When the sadly, we're going further and that model, because streamers ideas. Alex Ferrari: Exactly. So the doing fine. Jason Blum: Oh, no, no, no, no, they pick, they pick, you know, think are going to be wild home them. They pay everyone as if in our home runs and the rest of less. And it's a very different people. Alex Ferrari: You I have to you've had a lot of success been nominated for some Oscars other films. But exactly have to just because I've been I've been in I was in LA for 13 waterbottle tours and I've been and producers and things trying like you with your energy and I can't believe that you will concepts when you first started was just like, Dude, this guy's Jason Blum: They still think I'm you talking to Yeah, I'm like, him? Where are you from? Alex Ferrari: I'm from New York it is. You kind of I'm not gonna Jason Blum: I'm a little bit that before. I was proud of that Alex Ferrari: These movies are Jason Blum: It's fun to do I Hollywood if you're not trying I mean, I think it's I think Alex Ferrari: We could you could we could be digging we could be Jason Blum: Yeah we're supposed supposed to be having fun and you have to I think your you're a little looser about have all this tension it doesn't try and I don't know if that always like this but I try and of humor about what we're doing. Alex Ferrari: I mean I can't some of these directors with mean God forbid James Cameron, Jason Blum: then that creates so some directors can work with pressure but most of the most of think it doesn't doesn't help Alex Ferrari: Now tell me about Jason Blum: Welcome. Well, is a is a series of eight movies this deal with them about two or who runs Amazon who I knew a Right when she started, she kind I lit up to the idea because we scripts, and there are a lot of wide theatrical release. But think would be fun bats to take. her, it gave me a place to put actually able to say yes to to before. And we chose to do which is which is, which is to do, which is a more accurate looks like, you know, our movies, the minority is you know, most people who watch make a lot of sense to me that camera weren't reflecting that. for last year. And this is our think the difference between the that is that this year, we we underrepresented groups also the movies are actually people. And I noticed that in a last four movies. So I felt like telling better represent the we were we're not used to movies, I'm really proud of the cool. They're very different. of all the things kind of we've definitely really original, all anything else I've I've seen and, and I'm excited for people be able to give all these like the first four directors we go on to do more interesting Alex Ferrari: Now I have to at a film festival or at an around LA, you might get pitched by somebody like Hey, I screenplay, because that's LA. And how should you properly Because they're like, Oh, he's writing he it's be perfect for properly do it? And do you? Have walking up to you like, Hey, Jason Blum: Well, you asked two I'm gonna break them down and how do I feel about it? The love nothing more than being ever when people asked to take with my wife because it really please don't hesitate to come up take a selfie or do anything the second part of the question. does and it does happen working on making it happen more it awesome. And I love to make number one. Do not if you see me your movie that would not be a or heard about in fact it's it's all, you have to have rules of the game to submit a a lawyer submits something to always read it and if it's us more people will read it and and that's that's the way to get other way in is if there's that always helps is if there almost 100 people that work at someone who works at the company script, fine for that person to blumhouse and say hey, you or whatever I get I get emails But that's that's the way to street, but like I said, very Alex Ferrari: Sounds good. Now questions I asked all of my the longest to learn whether in Jason Blum: The the premise of and the question is like I've learned all these lessons. Alex Ferrari: What are you still yeah. Working on Yeah. Are you Jason Blum: Okay, what I'm still still working on not raising my which I don't which I'm not that those are my two biggest on. Alex Ferrari: Now what did you Jason Blum: Every I mean it's you stronger but um you know you seven things going out of my about I think that what you you can recover that life goes although you can fail at don't fail at life where you down and i think i think the think if you fail, you won't And I think what what I've I've gotten stronger and them and move into your next you to dwell on your failures I Alex Ferrari: Was there a moment that you were a producer on that everything was going to absolute did you handle that day and what from like to get through that Jason Blum: We aren't when when first shot we shot in the the for the family is hanging we had a terrible stun person the tree no one was you know no heard in a way they had to go to stunt went wrong and someone was hurt you know some what it stunt did not go the way it move we shut down the whole Alex Ferrari: Oh my God first Jason Blum: And we replaced a add to add like you know between dollars to the budget with the suddenly became 4 million is 25% and that was a horrible day, you Scott derrickson down and and worst day I've ever had on on time on set anymore. So I think our movies. I can hear a was so much worse that happened actually on the set, that was happened to me. It was bad. It Alex Ferrari: And last question all time. Jason Blum: Citizen Kane, Alex Ferrari: No horror movies. Jason Blum: No I'm going with Alex Ferrari: Moulin Rouge is three horror scripts that every Jason Blum: Roseman, Rosemary's horror scripts the shining. It's not my movie, but a great read this just because it's place. Alex Ferrari: Yeah, it is a read. I know it's still, I still but you've done okay for Jason Blum: And it was a great me up. I'm just jealous. Alex Ferrari: And where can is it available? The Welcome to Jason Blum: So the first two second two films are on the over first and October. Then the important month of course, Alex Ferrari: Obviously, been an absolute joy talking to thank you so much for being on but more success. And thank you that might have not gotten that that you do, man. So thank you Jason Blum: That's nice of you