So, first of all, thank you very much for It's worked dramatically, I'm already intellectual gathering of people from Harvard, reach. But you know what, lot of people have spoken dreams for India and given figures and facts says, aspirational. But I'm just an actor and I'm going to that's the thing that I can do best. And by that, I mean when we talk of dreams philanthropists Dr. Abdul Kalam, and he said He said, "Dreams are not what you have when The true dreams are the ones that don't He said, "When you have that dream once becomes a desire. And when you see it for the third time consecutively, and that is the passion with which I want 2030. And Abraham Lincoln also was a dreamer and most sense in trying to achieve this goal He said, "If I have six hours to cut down hours sharpening the axe." There's a great philosophy in that. In this era of instant gratification we just by just tweaking this, tweaking that, it's I really believe that a missionary zeal is can make 2030 of what I'm dreaming about And just let's look at India as a country, Seriously. Thousands of years old of culture and tradition, years and we still somehow managed to maintain We still somehow have managed to maintain and you know, yeah, there has been -- we there is violence, there is differences between and everything. But I can't help but think looking at India that bad. Look at all the other nations around in the Look at our neighbors, compared to that there right for us to be called a growing economy in 2026 and the most educated and young nation So let's first accept the fact that there right ideas and the ability to lead the nation Under that assumption -- under that assumption solutions to the problems that generally the And one of them, of course, is the fact that non-cooperation; who would've thought that We have some other - no, seriously I mean today, and one man in a loincloth would believe to do that for us -- you know, Mahatma Gandhi, Mahavir, Gautam Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi He dreamed then 85 years ago, that I dream want of milk, no youngster is deprived of to door finding a job. Sadly, it's still a dream today. And I dream of a 2030 when this dream becomes I dream of a 2030 when everybody is so equally they're able to actually devote about more great important aspect of our country. Now we need to be - for that to happen we And when I say healthy, I remember preparing where I had to look like a boxer and I had So I decided just to work on the parts that So I was just working out of my biceps and I suddenly realized, the strengths that I enough for me to look even fit because it It is the kind of growth that will not make inadequate. And that is what is happening to India today. Everybody says we are the largest economy country in the years to come and you know rocket and space technology which I am privy But ladies and gentlemen, I really believe villages. And this is going to be primarily what I talk You know, a nation is only as strong as its link. See, it's important that growth and progress onto the same train towards economic freedom, for a successful country but that is not happening, them, we're beginning to actually believe This is a very interesting line that I have that they know what is required for getting with the rest of the country. OK, and we always start assuming that this the poor and the villages and this is what And we can't be more wrong, because when an ass of you and me, let me tell you how His name was -- he's a very profound doctor, his patient Mr. Abdul, who said, "Doctor got a big stomach ache and she can't sit can I come and visit you?" And he said, 'Yes, by all means'. And like all patients today he's done his he said, "usko yeh ho sakta hain, wo sakta let me handle it'. And he checked her out and he said "She a surgery and she'll be fine." The surgery was done, she was fine and Abdul One year later, he calls back to doctor and please do the appendix operation, she'll And so doctor said -- the doctor Manu said, Abdul, please bring her to the clinic and But he said, 'No, no, sir fix up that operation be back -- just she needs that appendix removed'. So now he's losing his patience, he says to the clinic." And he's still insisting and finally the am the doctor and let me tell you that every already taken out the appendix. So please don't tell me how to do my job." Abdul waited very patiently for the doctor shot back very meekly, he says, "Sir, I one appendix but a man can have two wives, So when we start assuming what the rural India In my vast experiences of shooting in really like they call it in Tamil, really small places, burden for a person of this particular village, financial burden is -- five minutes! Hey so I'm going to speak for 20 today, I'm prepared, is that OK? OK, so can you all tell me, anybody, quick financial burden for a man in one of these Sorry, tap, health, OK. Not health, not the marriage of a daughter, reminding me, no. Say it again, dowry, no, no, no, no. Let me put you out of your misery. I'm saying why does he need financial assistance one relative of a senior in their family, for, that is one occasion where the ceremony money, feed a certain amount of people, use he takes the loan and that's where he gets particular embarrassment and humility of not every year as a specter of the Indian tradition he's made to feel inadequate. Lord Macaulay in 1735 had spoken in the British India is to make the men there feel inadequate", that what he has is lesser than what others And within a very short period they proved The rural India today is feeling inadequate, of our country. And what happens with that is they start then better education, better health, better lifestyle funeral properly, they decide to give up who And who they are is what is more important Who they are, are actually the timekeepers culture and stories. You know, you should see how tradition and We don't have psychiatrist as a big fashion a great level of sanity. You know, there's a great phrase from the says, 'Dream but not make dreams your master; with triumph and disaster and treat those It's very easy to say it but how do you The answer lies in the tradition and the culture and predominant in our country - The Bhagavad in the subcontinent, the Bible, the Guru Granth to handle the diversities and the setbacks yourself, come back and fight with the same And we don't give him -- when you don't we're depriving ourselves of what I think in today's world, which is the culture and So I dream of a 2030 where rural India is as aspirational as the rest of India and where as it is available in the cities. And after a hard day's work, a villager a drink, put his feet up and start thinking That would be a dream that I have for 2030 And the dreams that your parents and my parents class - where everything revolved around college of a repute and then getting into the green card. And if it was the girl, then it was a spouse I dream of a 2030 where students the world of having once actually come to India and as a nation. It used to be true: we were the first university where people came in from far and wide. So it's not a pipe dream, it's a practical easily attainable. And finally, before I wind up, I think, I'll electoral base which selects its leaders and to serve -- with a missionary zeal to serve You know, there is another stanza from the ability to talk to the crowds yet keep your touch, if neither good friends nor foes can too much -- if only the politicians understood country by 2030 where we'll all be proud but also proud about our politicians. And finally, you know, I'm an actor and 2030 I'm as relevant and as handsome hopefully would have mapped my face by then and use as the role desired me to look, and I'm that would be part of the industry in 2030. I see that's got many guys going ham. And finally as an actor, I'm used and prone I recently found a line that blew me apart dialogue, where this great gentleman has said, that have been - that has been possible by me in the near future are all because of Do you know who said that? You know who said that? Shockingly Abraham Lincoln! So I dream of a 2030 where every Indian says not just about his mother but also about his about his mother-in-law. But hey, ladies and gentlemen, what do I know? I am an actor. Thank you very much for your patient hearing.