- Oh man, am I so excited I'm getting ready to of my all time favorite breads, brioche. Amazingly buttery, incredibly delicious, super easy to make. I know you can do this with this recipe. Undoubtedly, you've seen at the grocery store brioche hot dog buns, brioche bread, I mean it is everywhere, especially the last five years. It's super popular and like I said, it's way easier to make First thing we need to with our yeast. Let's go. I've got a stand mixer and I'm gonna add in some very warm milk in between 116 and 120 degrees Fahrenheit. The reason it's so warm to the mixer is cold and to that perfect temperature. Now I'm gonna add in a little bit of sugar for the yeast to feed on, so now I'll sprinkle in that active yeast. I'm not sure why I like sprinkling it all over the top like this. I just do. It's just a habit. Go ahead and grab a whisk and what we wanna do is for maybe just a couple a seconds to make sure they are combined. One of the biggest if I don't have active What you do with instant for the raft. You simply go because it works instantly. No need to activate it. Okay, now for the next step. After about five to seven minutes you'll see this nice little Should be nice and bubbly. This is absolutely perfect. At this point I'm gonna be I'm using all-purpose because bread flour's kinda and plus most folks just So go ahead and add it in there, and now what we wanna just on low speed and just two to three minutes for We're not looking to knead the It'll be very, very sticky. That's totally fine and completely normal. Now, what I'm gonna do is put You could absolutely use and then for my neat little proofing trick we're going into the oven. Make sure the oven has We're just gonna crack it. Leave the oven light on. This will create that so that our dough can While we're doing this rise that this is called the sponge method. It's a two-step process where which is our flour and We let it ferment. We bring it back out and we add all of the other ingredients, and then we ferment it a little bit more. Just want to let you Now let's pull this dough out and get to going. This looks absolutely perfect. We're gonna remove it from the oven. Put it right on the mixer. Go ahead and take the We're gonna drop the hook in because now it's time to so just on low speed I've got quite a few eggs here. We're gonna add in just one at a time until they're mixed. Now they're not going to be mixed in, but we just want it to sort of resemble that raw scrambled egg look This is perfect. Now we're gonna stop of our dry ingredients. So I've got quite a bit of all-purpose flour that Once it's in, next we're gonna hit it with some sugar. This is where a lot of the will come from, and for some seasoning, of some sea salt. You could use regular salt if you'd like. Now go ahead and put it It's gonna take a second to become combined. Maybe five to six minutes. At this point we are gonna add in some a little bit at a time. The dough is gonna get stickier, but we're incorporating a lot of fat. It's gonna be absolutely delicious. This is where it gets that browning, that tenderness and that sweetness and that deliciousness from in this bread. At this point, we are from the hook, so once it's lift up, Get all those delicious little It's going in the refrigerator. We wanna cool everything down and it's gonna take about 30 minutes. The reason it goes in the refrigerator is because we need the butter to cool down. This is a really sticky dough and can become really hard to handle, so that's why we do it. Like I said before, 30 minutes max, but you'll also notice, and the reason being is I wanted to show you two different We're gonna make some loaves and we're also gonna make that you would see in Sicily or Italy. Sorry France. So once it is done and get to making it. So go ahead and remove your This looks excellent. It's nice and cooled down, and on a clean surface with a little bit more flour. Now go ahead and grab and we are gonna remove as and here's a quick little trick. Since the dough does get really sticky, what you may wanna do is dip of cold water. This will help so that your Cool little trick. Most people think flour. Water actually does it as well, so once I'm at this point I'm going to divide it into thirds. Like I said, I'm gonna and some traditional shaped little buns, so once we're at this point, oh dang it. I totally forgot to Be sure to do this before you even start. I forgot in the middle of Okay, now go back. I'm taking a third of and I'm forming it into a rectangle, maybe 12 to 16 inches in Once you get it to that This is very similar to my Once it's to this point, go Scrape it underneath. Plop it right into that Now, I'm gonna set it on a sheet tray and put a little towel over the top because like I said, I wanna go and show you a different shape. Now this is much more of a so take little piece off. Get it nice and round. I'm gonna set it on a sheet and then I've got some that we need to form Make it and shape it. I like to push through from the bottom and kind of squeeze it at the bottom so it becomes a nice round shape, and we're gonna fit it right like you see here. This is excellent. We're too gonna put a towel on here and we're gonna stick with my so we're going back to the oven. We're just going to crack it. Leave only the oven light on. It's gonna take maybe 45 minutes for it In the meantime, though, I've got a bowl. We wanna make a little so crack in one large egg Using a fork or a whisk, go ahead and mix all of Set it to the side. Now let's take out our bread and give it a little look. Boom, looks excellent. Now what we're gonna do is brush the top with our egg wash. Don't forget to do those that we made and then once we're just gonna sprinkle Obviously it's gonna add flavor and it's also gonna help of our bread. We're going in the oven The little ones are gonna take about 18 minutes. The bigger loaf may be 30 to 35, so after that 18 to 20 minute period, let's take 'em out. These look amazing. Oh my gosh, you guys, and then 12 to 17 minutes more we're gonna take out our big loaves. You'll know they're done at 190 degrees Fahrenheit We just simply wanna place them on a rack for about 20, 30 minutes It smells amazing in here. Oh my go- brioche is just, I just Seriously, it's so good. You gotta wait maybe 20, 30 minutes. You don't have to wait It is all the way done in the center, so we are good to go. Let's play it up in slow mo. Before I start comies it's all about these and putting them into practice. Knowing how to use the sponge method to make delicious, perfect brioche bread. You start putting these things in practice I can promise you all from scratch will taste way better than anything at the store You'll never wanna eat when you can make from home every single time. Slice it up. Serve it up and man oh (upbeat music) Seriously, the most I cannot say it enough. Be sure to make it soon. Like this video. Subscribe to my channel. Check out this video. You will love this recipe. I'll see you on there. (upbeat music)