In the heart of Africa's a lava cave is home to a very They're Anubis baboons. We'll explore their world through As he learns: who's who - and what's going on. Who you can trust, and And that goes for the Especially the carnivorous ones. Is there conflict everywhere? Is there a lesson in everything? And what's the best way to keep safe in the dark, Watch carefully as we explore with M.ku'u, and his Dawn in Kenya's Rift Valley. The cradle of humanity. Long before humans, Anubis baboons Caves created by flowing lava, from the volcanoes that formed As the day starts, they are poised What will the day bring? There's always the possibility Dangers that the juveniles An experienced female, Jamala, Here's why: She has given birth It means 'Prince' in Swahili. Now she must introduce M.ku'u Presenting your bottom in return shows respect to a This dry season is to bring young into the world. But the turns in the seasons So the monkeys must take whatever While M.ku'u is secure His family is the first and only beyond Jamala's embrace. M.ku'u's father Mfalme - the king - the troupe's dominant male - Other males could be dangerous Too boisterous, or too jealous. But his wrestling cousins are just future playmates And this solicitous female King Mfalme's own father Babu - doesn't have a task here. He's a gentleman of leisure. He'll avoid confrontations. But Babu's earned respect No-one will trouble him. Age brings status in this troop. There are plenty of potential But right now, attention from the This female in oestrus would rather without the trouble Mfalme watches out ... But the females will sort it out And over-keen babyminders An early lesson in community life. The lava cave, their home, isn't Even in a drought there's usually That's because the funnel water and nutrients. The bushes and trees growing when everything else is dried up. Fig trees are favourites here, Mfalme, the king of the clan, He just pulls up the plumbs. But no monkey is truly a loner. Grooming forms alliances M.ku'u will learn the value But right now, he's just Play has finished for this morning. The featherweight champ ... and for Mum Jamala, Africa's Rift Valley stretches to Mozambique The Serengeti and the Masai Mara Beside the ridges of there's plenty of open space Beyond the open savannah, the collapsed lava tunnels and shelter and protection to many including our baboon troop. M.ku'u is now becoming more Jamala is an experienced mother. She knows how to build the and other females. All the while checking Not leaving a single square From head, to ankles. In this habitat, there's The Anubis share their territory klipspringers. Every now and then so the gazelles are always on their Klipspringers walk on tiptoe. They're the only antelopes Perfect for running across rocks. They fascinate M.ku'u. Klipspringers rely on speed ... ... to get out quickly if disturbed. It's almost too much excitement. Nice to be in a security sandwich. The strictly are found across Africa, Normally only the males have horns. But in the north and east of their Nobody knows why. Active at night, they mostly doze But in the dry season to find their favourite The baboons may drop some while When the rock pigeons coo their everything briefly goes quiet. And the quiet time, is Females and females, males and all come together to That's the point of grooming. Sharing affection is more important And if no one else is there you have to look after yourself. That's not M.ku'u's problem. Everyone loves a baby, especially Spoiling King Mfalme will Friendship with the baboon king and access to food. And further down the line, it can After the grooming session, the They'll be out till this evening. Dark clouds awaken hopes it's been four months now But tonight, the thunderstorm It soon passes - leaving But this is not a morning There's expectancy in the air. Babu, the grandfather, has It's another newborn - The first well-wisher But he must be careful. Not too boisterous. A clumsy approach is brushed off. And the next slot This mother is Her baby isn't a toy. The third supplicant gets it right. Keep your distance, Perfect! A big moment for M.ku'u, too. A casual approach - he's seen what This baby is still a little small but it won't be long! And the rock is a great vantage Adult males can be dangerous But Mfalme is keeping As the volcanic rocks the long wait for water continues. The food the baboons find ... ... supports another arc dung-beetles! They must knead a ball of warm Once it's dried, they've Then the dung beetle props it up and rolls a globe many times It might be food ... ... or a future nest for her eggs But the beetle can't see So it's a good thing that the ball The beetles have competition Red-headed rock agamas. They come here en masse to eat that the baboons leave behind. Another natural cycle. This impressive male has food ... and females. His mating cycle shows But the female So, the male had better try This female has other things M.ku'u and his little cousin, ... and they discover the action ... in their own private Jurassic Park. The females show impressive The male ... misses out here, too. M.ku'u's cousin takes another ... and then joins M.ku'u, playing He's after that feather. While he fights, she But they're soon playing ... in the great volcanic with its endless climbing frames. And when M.ku'u gets bored and ... there's always an aunt to That's enough for today. For M.ku'u, more excitement. a rock hyrax! Hyraxes may look like marmots, but in fact they're in a category Related only to manatees In any case they're though M.ku'u's aunt doesn't Rock hyraxes share their habitat Theoretically they could be ... but right now they have from M.ku'u and his relatives. Though rock hyraxes look harmless, they can more than stand Perhaps they don't know At two weeks old, hyraxes can but they'll be suckled for of their lives. M.ku'u himself is getting And he's trying grown-up food. But he's still no bigger They're briefly on equal terms. Jamala looks on. She knows one's an adult and one's a baby. So, she picks him up But a bigger drama is about and the peace disturbed. A powerful male is challenging Troop members look on nervously. Until yet another guardian-aunt It's a general reflex whenever And this is more danger. The dusk has drawn a hyena. On her own she won't attack. But she's seen the baboon young. And they could be suitable prey. Now the whole hyena clan has gathered round their den They're saving their energy These youngsters are weaned, And now it's all up to the She teaches the young The first rule is The second is learning And that starts with understanding that every female is superior The hyenas' eerie calls accompany the baboons' preparations Mfalme, the king, is one to descend into the volcanic cave. Perpendicular walls to these born free-climbers. Jamala and M.ku'u follow down into the lava rock. The rest of the troop don't delay. Thermal cameras reveal the scene They argue over the best Disputes are quickly resolved. And everyone relaxes. This is the night After so many months of drought the Who can say what the baboons feel? Do they remember the last rain? Do they feel relief, even joy? One thing is for sure: rain is very wet! And the lesson is: take cover! Natural cisterns are slowly That will continue for weeks. The definition of a decent ... you need a roof! But the truth is, rain is good It brings tender fresh shoots, It's the first time M.ku'u There's new energy in the air. Though Grandfather Babu Elsewhere, passions are high. Forgotten squabbles Everyone jockeying for position. One thing all agree on: Even the young treat this They can climb just as well Jamala confidently grasps carrying M.ku'u on her stomach. King Mfalme has his eye While others seek a steep Mfalme propagates his genes and adds to the family. The rock hyrax is right But no-one can say how long Mfalme Meanwhile M.ku'u is becoming If there's no one to play with He'll make his own fun. His home, the bushland, has been in just a few days. Wherever you look ... Green. At the cave, these While a guard looks on, a baboon Older statesman Babu leads the way. He's been around long enough to This time M.ku'u is with them. The other juveniles are coming They're bigger than M.ku'u ... ... but they'll still accept a lift The whole troupe under way Safe in their numbers, but a single hyena has been It'll stay under cover, though. Especially today! The baboons know their neighbours Elephant families are constantly They're just passing through. Looking for water, and trees There's a calf ... ... still being suckled. While M.ku'u's own milky lunch The baby elephant has drunk and tries to goad an older But today, persistence M.ku'u's never seen Maybe he realises The baby elephant won't give up. And his father It all makes a deep Jamala knows, there's nothing and she moves away, relaxed, As do the elephant family. M.ku'u's still a little wary but seeing the rest of the troupe he relaxes, too. And there's always something fun Just as long as his mother As his little cousin looks on. At dusk the exciting Everyone returns to the cave. The last calls from the big tree. Will this be a peaceful night? Jamala and M.ku'u have befitting their status. Not far away the hyena clan gets With hungry young to feed, every The clan gathers. But they won't set off ... ... until the matriarch is ready. The last baboons are still making The best sleeping places Up top, M.ku'u's little cousin seem to be wasting precious time ... ... with the first hyenas already There's no other way but down. No-one knows how the monkeys Finally M.ku'u's cousin These hyenas are just the advance But there's no easy way Hyenas can't climb. That doesn't calm the baboons The hyenas lay siege, but they can't break in. With a tense night behind them, M.ku'u's family get ready for the He just wants one Then, Mfalme gives the signal They have to make the most of But the morning light brings One of the males is limping. This is a recent wound. Maybe he waited too long where the hyenas could reach him. But baboons wouldn't be as if they couldn't cope with that. The injured male will be looked and will probably survive. That's an important The family will look after its own, And suddenly there's no shortage Like two male Grant's It causes unease among the baboons. It's mating time for the antelopes; Those impressive horns could But usually this is just Jamala takes M.ku'u away from possible danger. And the others follow her example. A winner has been declared. Evening is coming - the baboon Babu stayed behind from at his age you need a lot of sleep. Yet, everyone shows this But one of the males - with the looks nervous - almost scared. And here's the reason ... the powerful male who challenged He walks straight past Babu, and strides purposefully He, in turn, runs away. That injured front paw suggests The troublemaker is looking But where did the limping male He's hiding. And the troublemaker Change of plan! Lean back up against the tree Turn your back and refuse For a moment Giving his target time to take The aggressor considers And the victim with there are other ways Babu looks on, concerned. Is that muscleman going to The troublemaker walks Since Mfalme's not here right now, another male 'protects' thus gaining his own 'baby shield'. The troublemaker continues Things have quietened down a little and his victim dares And now, old Babu is distracted. He noticed the rump ... ... of a receptive female And he follows her across Suddenly age has no meaning ... As grandad goes a'courting! He's forgotten nothing. The female scampers away. Babu is reenergized. Meantime the interloper He demands the attention Who then gives up his place again. A scared juvenile seeks out But where is Mfalme? And now the troublemaker is In all the chaos, Mfalme He doesn't yet know And he seeks reassurance Grooming usually serves Gradually everything calms down. But the day isn't over yet. There's a showdown ... as the troublemaker attacks Mfalme. The king has finally had enough. The challenger has a M.ku'u and the other juveniles by yesterday's fight ... ... and they don't want anything He keeps yawning because But to the others this Some of the young ones are getting Others seek protection ... even from the The aggressor is standing on flat Babu can tell that the fight is not yet resolved. The troublemaker with the split lip is trying to make a connection But that yawn is more likely And so he's rejected by the And that annoys him. He has to take it out on someone. It's the male, who rejected him. And that brings Mfalme back! Time for the reckoning! The whole troop knows King Mfalme expels the troublemaker As Babu knew he would. He'll think twice before showing The tension is released. Time to play in the big tree again. Almost everyone joins in. But not Babu. The time for play is past. And Mfalme too would rather rest For M.ku'u, back with his mother, the last couple of weeks he's certainly learned a lot. He's learned how his family ticks, and he's found his place in the baboon troop. Jamala has given him the best Snug and safe, the little of coming adventures. And maybe of the day when he'll lead his 'really wild