- Sitting on these train tracks is a quarter million dollar Lamborghini. And barreling down at it right now is a massive train. But before the impact, I'm - Thank you. - And on top of sending the train, I'm also gonna have these eight soldiers shoot 10,000 bullets at your Lamborghini. - That's the scariest - Yeah, it's gonna be fun. - And you have exactly 24 hours to protect your Lambo from the bullets. The timer starts now. - Okay, first line of defense, I'm thinking a wall of some shipping containers and then basically just a wall of cars to block those bullets. - Do you think to stop 10,000 bullets? - I think it is, Jimmy. - Okay, but so You should get to building. - So Blake immediately where I gave him my credit card and he literally spent And since I don't wanna bore to the part where This first round of supplies - Oh my God, I can't believe And this isn't even everything, man. - He's got a water truck. Some of his junk cars came in. He's got a CONEX crate over here. How did he get this much Don't worry about the guys Just pretend they're not there. Yeah, I don't even know what they're doing there, honestly. - We're five hours in and is about to be the first line of defense against 10,000 bullets. - Alright, that's probably Do you think that shipping container's gonna stop any bullets? - Absolutely not. - So as of now, he's screwed. - Yeah, it's not looking good for him. - Oh gosh. It's been about six hours. Are - I'm very happy. - It wasn't until this thing got down, but now that it's down, - I asked him if this and they said no. And once Blake realized he works not only through the night This way, Mr. Railroad ties. - Nice, nice. Yes. - Really nice. Really nice. - But even into the next morning, upgrading his defense- - Dude, he's stuffing the and a giant tube! - And once I saw it put together, I was honestly pretty impressed. Run me through what you built. - So I built a whole and the tallest part of the to block the crow's nest machine guns 'cause those things are big and scary. - I got all my cars in storage containers and a bunch of water. - And if you come right over here, you'll see his Lamborghini - There it is. Nice and cozy. - Do you think all of - Yeah, I do. I think you have a 50% chance of survival. - That's the best odds I've had yet. - And before I have come with me to the Lamborghini. Not only are you competing but for a hundred grand as well. - What? - Yeah, that's pretty cool, huh? - This will be enough to cover 24 hours is up! Eight scary men, 10,000 bullets- - Versus everything - Are you ready? - Just get it over with. I'm freaking out. - We're locked and loaded. - Sir, fire at will. - Standby! Fire! - Oh! - They are unloading on his fortress. - Oh my God! This is crazy! - They're actually ripping through the cinder blocks now. - Oh man. Oh god. - Oh, Blake's walls And what we haven't told the first of four phases we've designed to destroy this Lamborghini, or should I say whatever - They just brought up the LMG. - Oh, whoa! - Oh, it's melting! - No! Cinder blocks are falling! - Ah! - All it takes is and it's going in his Lambo. - Oh my God! - These are the last bullets. - Ten thousand! - All clear? Let's go. Please be safe. Please be safe. How is it?! - She's clean, baby! - Whoo! 10,000 rounds and - There's no bullet holes And if you don't already he's actually a contestant But today he's back for a third and final attempt to win the grand prize. - Are you ready for phase two? - Yes. - See that giant crane coming? - That big yellow oil rig looking thing? - That is phase two. That crane is going to lift and then in 24 hours drop it. And you have to catch it - Seriously? - Yeah. Alright, bring it over here! And while we prepared the Lamborghini free fall... - There goes your Lamborghini, Blake! Blake began to strategize on - I have no idea what I'm gonna do. - Chandler, come over here. - Yes, I'm here. - How would you break its fall? - So you get all the pillows in the city. Step two, get all the - Chandler, you're just - Then a warm glass of milk... - All right, stop. You're not helping. Blake, work your magic. - I'm screwed. - Alright guys, I got some We passed day one with flying colors. The bad news is the Okay? So anyone got any ideas? I mean, yeah, hit me, - The bouncy castles. That that's actually not that bad. Just because...that's - And after being inspired by the construction worker's wisdom, Blake had decided on his master plan. - I would like to move the right here with the X in the middle. And that way I can just fill of air mattresses, pillows, bubble wrap, and on top it all off with Just the biggest problem right Everything that I bought And nothing that I bought So, I have absolutely nothing. - And so Blake sent his and air mattress in the city. And even though he was he got to work. - I'm already at the stage why am I doing this again?&quot; Oh yeah, that's right. I'm in that's floating in the sky right now. - By the time his Blake had been awake for over 24 hours and was in desperate need of sleep. - I'm gonna try to get some sleep 'cause I'm exhausted and - And with how exhausted Blake was, he ended up sleeping for Blake! Is he serious? - What is this? He got mattresses, pillows, and blankets. But he's missing the warm milk. - Yeah, that's the key to everything. - Where is Blake? - He's asleep. I heard. - No, he is not. - By the time Blake got on site, it was already super late in the day. - That's Blake's truck pulling up. Alright, we need to get to work. Come on! - Alright, let's just Oh, that bouncy house works as a big box. So I'm thinking maybe we put and then we start blowing it up. - Only four and a half hours remain and it's not looking good for Blake. I don't think he has of catching a Lamborghini. - And even if he does, that train later on. - Start filling up the side so takes away this wall. - So with only a Blake did all that he could with cardboard boxes and bubble wrap. - It's coming down to the wire. Chandler, how much time is left? - One hour. - Blake is screwed. - I have a little bit of bubble wrap left. I think I'm just gonna and just wrap my baby and I'm good to go. - That's definitely gonna help. - Blake spent what little on this crane, failing at - It's just not gonna work. - You know what time it is? - What? - Time to drop the car. The failed bubble wrap Blake, do you think your - I'm positive, Jimmy. - He is more certain than me. - I'm positive about this one. I bought every air mattress at Walmart. If this won't catch it, I did everything I can. - Here's a Feastables bar, Blake. - Ah, thank you Mr. - That way even if you lose the car, at least you have some good chocolate. It's available at Walmart. Be I'm so curious what you think. But anyway, you have three how many pillows? - 150 pillows and 2,000 cardboard boxes! Will it break the Lamborghini's fall? - Yes. Yes. - That's two yeses. - 24 hours of work, down - 3, 2, 1. Drop the Lamborghini! Here we go! Outta my way! - That did not sound good. - Please be okay. Please be okay. - Alright. He's moving the - There's no way you caught that Lambo. - Get these boxes outta the way! - Whoa! - We're about to find out - The lights work. - Ooh, the lights work. - Yeah. This princess castle might have saved this entire car. - Moment of truth. You might've been the to catch a Lamborghini- - If it turns on. - Alright, here we go. Here we Whoa, it works! I can't believe it! Yay! That's what I'm talking - Everything looks good, minus which we found out via official appraiser. This was only going to reduce the price of Blake's Lamborghini by... - Probably 10 grand. - Thank you so much. - Right now's the perfect time is flaming cars. - For Blake's next challenge we're bringing back his biggest nightmare. We have recreated the that costed Blake everything last time. - Wow, that's a low blow. - But seeing that we're gonna up the as many cars as last time. - I'll see you tomorrow. Redemption day! - Blake spent the rest defense for phase two. And after a good night to begin his defense for phase three. - It's eight in the morning. Just woke up. We got a So let's get started. - Here's the day three plan. I'm gonna cut the bottom I'm gonna drop it right on the car. Next I'm gonna take two more containers and I'm gonna lead them up coming to a point right above the car. - And most importantly, - Do you think that will deflect a car? - Yes sir. - Oh, I thought you were Blake then asked his crew to that was in the container because that's what ended He then had them cut out that would surround the Lamborghini. - The storage container - Completely crush it? - It can? - I mean, yeah, that - And with that to lower the container without damaging it. - One scratch can You're good just like that? - It is so close - Watch your fingers. - Yes! Yes! - I cannot believe that! - Next we're gonna to form a &quot;V&quot;. - What if the car gets caught in there? - Yeah, that's, that can't happen, dude. That's why we're putting - Do you think that will - A hundred percent. - 20 minutes remain and then perishes just like his 500 grand. And as usual, Blake 3, 2, 1. Not quite sure what Time is up. - Let's see if unlike last - Redemption! - Blake, you lost $500,000 from How are you feeling? - I feel pretty confident. - I think the viewers Did you put wood inside - A little bit. No, I'm just kidding. It was one of the biggest mistakes I've ever made in my life. - Moment of truth. Come on in. Three shipping containers. A bunch of dirt, concrete, a weird like, pointed roof thing. Versus 10 flaming cars! Are you ready? - Let's go dude. - Light it on fire! - Will Blake be with the new Lamborghini filled with a hundred thousand and go home with nothing? - We're about to find out. 3, 2, 1. Drop it! - Oh! - Oh, oh! - Oh. You did not want that. - I feel like that's exactly Oh no. Still feeling good? - Not as good. - Yeah, this is giving me some flashbacks. - It's giving you some flashbacks. - Alright, ready for the next one? - Let's do it. Let's do it. - Drop it. - Oh my God, the roof looks - And just in case Blake like last time, I'm gonna take this moment and tell you about this amazing new phone. What you're currently watching on is the new Samsung Galaxy S24 Ultra. This phone can record slow-mo in 4K. The camera on this is crazy. We're like 200 feet And look at that; crystal clear. - Ho ho ho ho! - Oh! - Oh, that hurt to watch. It also has a ton of new features with Galaxy AI, like Photo Assist. - Remember the last got cracked on the Lambo? You can just circle it like this and then all you do is you And just like that, the bumper is fixed. - Now I have a new car. - For the picture you do - Whenever you're ready. This phone also has which makes finding It would've helped Blake to learn about the flammability All he needed to do was highlight the railroad ties and - As you can see, railroad - You would've learned Could have just told you. I was genuinely impressed by this phone and I think you will be too. So go to samsung.com, click or scan this QR code to and let's drop the next car. - We dropped car after car, and with each one we could tell Blake was getting more nervous, of the impacts were starting to damage the crate itself. - Your crate on the bottom is bowing. - At this point, the Lambo was being crushed by the weight and heat of the cars. - I thought about this every day since the last time I saw this. - And now it's - Yes! - Oh no! - Bro, it's gotta be This car's probably melting right now. - We got the fire extinguisher. - Somehow he's running so - I'm coming. - How is it? - It's okay. It's okay! Yes! You like that? - If one more car was dropped, this crate would've collapsed. You stopped 10,000 bullets. - You caught a car out of mid air. You've now deflected ten flaming cars. - Now its time for phase four. - Bring on the train. - The timer has officially started. - I gotta go. - Good luck on phase four. - God speed. - What is he even running at? In case you're wondering, and a lot of other stuff we used And don't worry, we made sure - Blake knew that the train was going to be the most deadly attack yet, so he wasted no time in getting started. - I think the best way to That's what I've tried to build here. All these railroad ties are tucked snug, and all of these are The train's gonna hit 'em like that. And if I do that a hundred more times, I don't see the train just The railroad ties lost me This time they'll save me. I just need two inches - Two inches is a lot though. - My man. And then once I have all this done, I can just put concrete on top. I think that's gonna work, - Blake worked the entire night and when I it was obvious that this What's up, Jimbo? - What happened to your voice? - I'm like dying out here. - As you guys know, he lost He lost half a million I think Blake is sick and tired of losing. He has an army going super hard. They're currently stacking the cars that we dropped on phase But time was still ticking down. And in order to stop this Blake began adding a lot more objects to the tracks, like shipping to cushion the impact... - Blake's worked so hard. - And water tanks. - Blake really seems to Too bad, there's only 11 minutes left. At this point, Blake to finish his build before time ran out, and it was actually - This is it. - The final stretch, - Two, one. - Time's up. Stop. Turn it off. Turn it off. Time is officially up! - Oh my God. - From phase one mattresses, and even phase Blake, you somehow used all the resources from the previous phases. - Let's see if you're or if I'm dropping you off at your house. - Bring that train on, man. Bring it on. - Before we ram everything, We're gonna go really far back. That way the train can before it hits everything. - No, that sounds awful. - Be honest, Blake. Do you think your Lamborghini will survive? - God, I hope so, Jimmy. - And of course we had to on the train. It's the best chocolate on earth. Do yourself a favor and but for now, it's time of Blake's life. Let's see if he wins a Lamborghini. Blake, any last words? - Give it all you got. - Send the train. Here it comes. - Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. - It's coming! - It's gonna speed up right before impact. - Dude, it is going quick! - It's just gonna - Here she comes! Let's see if it was all worth it! - Oh, wait, wait, wait! - Blake, it derailed! - Oh my God! - Blake, I've never - Oh wow, you derailed it! - Oh my God. Oh my God. I did it! Oh! Oh my God! - This is your new Lamborghini, Blake! Not only did he win the Lamborghini, but he also got all this money! - Yes! - Congrats. - I did it! - You wanna know the best - What? - By them going to Walmart and It's the best tasty Third time's the charm. - Yes!