Jake: Jake here for ExtremeTerrain, and today Lift Kit fitting 2022 and newer Tundras also excluding TRD Pro models. This lift kit bit of everything and a great balance. With the height you want for off-roading and fitting your safety items and excellent ride quality. Now, to accessory parts and this kit is no exception. making sure that this is gonna fit your Tundra stuff to make sure that this is a comprehensive Lots of you probably remember watching Toyota different Baja races back in the '90s, and none iconic trucks set the bar, and even now, you modern-day Tundra. Toyota Racing Development, or 3-inch lift kit to make your Tundra a bit too. This is a 3-inch lift kit, as the name would of lift up front versus stock with 2 inches of to function as a leveling kit as well, making than how it would have come off the showroom to go with its menacing face and will give so you'll get some extra room for some But obviously, there is a lot more to it than just here, some of which we don't even have room not enough space. But let's start out with the upper control arms for the front end to account truck in proper alignment. They have brand new well. Next, you get new shocks, both front and Bilstein. So they're going to offer an increase height. But being Bilsteins, you can be certain off-road performance. They're designed to maintain from the factory. And on the front shocks, you've set this spring perch to adjust the ride height notches on here. Again, typical of Bilstein if see on them a lot, something I really like because So again, you've got front and rear shocks that got these TRD springs in the iconic red colorway, you're looking for when the going gets rough. perfectly, give you a confident and controlled on. On top of all of that, you can see there's axles too to accommodate for that extra lift. your stock axles may be pulled out a little bit these in here. You've also got new tie rod ends, rear to get you that extra 2 inches of lift, plus links to match up with the adjusted stabilizer There's even a few things that we don't have on lines for the rear and for the front. Again, the truck sits, you're kind of pulling on those longer ones in there to make sure that you don't all the new hardware too, so you've got pretty really not replacing on here that's part of the you've got these big spacers here that are However, all of that being said, I think the best accessory, it doesn't affect your driver aid Sense 2.5 is going to continue to function just as lane keeping assist, your active cruise control, systems are all going to function exactly as they get basically what is as close to a factory looks to match. And of course, because it's Toyota Speaking of which, we should talk about like I mentioned earlier, are made from forged bushings already pressed in, making them a super The shocks again are your typical Bilsteins. new bushings on the bottoms here. And you've got nice zinc plating on the outside here. The springs And again, they've got that really nice bright of color since you're going to be able to see All the other stuff, too, is also quite nice, You've got these stabilizer bar spacers. they're finished in this nice matte black powder too. Again, fabricated steel finished in a more rear bump stops with brand new powder-coated here. Brand new again. Not that you're going to it's good that it's included here. Plus, you've Tie rod ends with new ball joints on both of them. joints in here and all the associated hardware is going to be very comprehensive. All the stuff the elements as best as it can be and it's Now, as you might expect from a part that comprehensive, it does not come cheap. Pricing that does put it on the more expensive for as complete a kit as this is, and especially nice to just be able to take it out of the box designed specifically for your truck by the with of course a little bit of help from Roush I would call this a good value for money. the stuff that you're getting in here, some because there's no room. You've got all the pretty much everything but the rear springs, complete. So for what you're getting, Installation is going to get a three out as you might expect with something like this, as with any lift kit, there's a lot to do. sure you've got the time set aside if you're as usual with a lift kit, make sure you get and given it a little time to settle in. let's head out to the shop where we'll give Man: The tools you're going to need for this an electric or regular 3/8 ratchet, a 3/8 17, and 19-millimeter ratcheting wrench, a 10-millimeter flare nut wrench, a clip removal grips, a panel removal tool, a hammer, a pry joint removal tool, a rubber mallet, a chisel 10, 12, 17, and 19-millimeter chrome sockets, a 39-millimeter 12-point socket, a Phillips safety glasses, and a spring compressor tool, What's up, guys? Today we're gonna be so let's get started. All right, guys, so gonna grab a clip removal tool, and we're gonna clip removal tool under the cover and pry up. Now process on the other side. Next, we're going to be what I'm going to do is grab a 10-millimeter open loose. I'm gonna unscrew and put this cap on sure that you have a rag there because it's Slide our cap over so we don't lose any more of needle nose pliers. We're going to remove on the tab and twist and pull, like so. Now your All right, now we're going to come down to 12-millimeter socket and remove it out of process here like we did up top. So we're going end wrench. See if we can unthread it by Now that we got that disconnected, pull out our tab here. From there, we can pull So now that you have your brake line disconnected, going to have to grab a 19-millimeter socket to off to the side. For the top one, make sure loose. Grab our bolt, then we can remove our we're going to remove our rotor. All we have to do and rotor is removed on the driver's side, you So now we're going to be removing our bump We're just going to twist this off because it's we just twist that off. Repeat this on the our tie rod out of the knuckle. So we're to remove our cotter pin first. Now we're just the hole. We just slide our pin out. What you on your pliers. Now we have our cotter pin socket to remove our castle nut. Now that or a ball joint press to remove our stud out So now we're going to remove the speed sensor we're going to remove this bolt to remove our swap our sockets over to a 12-millimeter to loosen up our bracket. Just going to thread our speed sensor. Set that off to the side. and remove this bracket here. Thread this back upper control arm. Now we can just grab So now we're going to be removing our sway bar ratcheting wrench to remove this bolt and our Remove our bolt. Now we can disconnect the stud hammer to get that out, depending on how seized it pull down on our sway bar with our pry bar. Slide we can slide the bottom part out. And you can have our tie rod removed. We have to prepare so we're going to have to grab a Sharpie or notch here on the nut so it makes it a for alignments. So now you can either grab and we're going to loosen up our nut. We'll we can just twist our tie rod end off. Now So now we're going to be removing the lower strut 22-millimeter wrench. a 22-millimeter socket, removed. Now I'm just going to back the bolt out. freely. So now we're going to be disconnecting going to grab a needle nose pliers to remove hooked end and bring it around. Now that we got ratcheting wrench to loosen up our castle nut. stud because we're going to need a ball joint arm due to the fact that these are aluminum and dent and it could injure your knuckle. Now So before we remove our upper control arm to the here with a chisel and a hammer. You want to be just going to go evenly around the edges. Give it what I like to do is I like to grab a flathead both sides. Now our cover's removed. Now that we a needle nose pliers to remove our cotter pin. like so, and then we can go to the other end, gray nut will also come with it, so don't be little tap with a hammer or along the outside. Now we have our cotter pin removed, we can slide a 39-millimeter 12-point socket to remove our getting this off and the hub is spinning, put a pry bar with it so you can keep can repeat this process on the other side. So we have to grab a ball joint press. We're going castle nut on here just for this purpose. We don't make sure this is nice and even. Tighten that ratcheting wrench to tighten this up. So I do it ball joint press. Now I recommend using a bungee I'm sorry. So now we're gonna grab a pry bar, remove our castle nut and lift up. Now our upper So now we're going to remove the axle from the hub nut. I'm gonna thread this on till it's flush with 39-millimeter socket, put that over top. Now we here, you can grab an air hammer with a pointed out. Then repeat that process on the other side. on our axle itself. And from there we can pull So now we're going to be removing the axle from the axle that we're going to be using a pry hammer. We're going to give it taps and twist it to grab a buddy to help me twist, and now I'm it. If you see fluid draining, that is to be it is. And now your axle is removed. And now So now we're going to be removing these two bolts grab a 22-millimeter socket and we're going hold on to the top of the knuckle because it to have some pressure up top. Remove our first it's going to fall. Now your knuckle is removed. you're going to have to grab a needle nose pliers Make sure it's as straight as possible. Push it 24-millimeter socket and we're gonna remove this we're gonna bring that flush with the stud. joint remover and bring that over each lip. get that in the middle of the stud itself, ratcheting wrench. We're gonna tighten this we can unthread our nut. Now you can All right, guys, so now we're going to in the uninstall we removed the lower mount. here. We're going to grab a 14-millimeter these four nuts. I'm just going to loosen them we can take our nuts off. Two more in the back. control arm to get our strut out. So now we're me pull down on our lower control arm so we can I'm going to lift up. Now your strut is removed, All right, guys, so we had to lower down the the long bolt. It hits the ECM once you're trying have to remove our air box, and then once we're to remove off of there, then we can slide our bolt and loosen up our clamp. We're going to disconnect so. Now we can remove the boot from our airbox. our 10-millimeter socket with an extension, and there's one more over here for the top part. And we're going to grab a clip removal tool, we're our ECM out of the way so we can get our upper So now we're going to remove our nut to the upper a 22-millimeter wrench, loosen up this side here. Make sure you don't throw these away because This will be the time where we loosen up our ECM and out of the way. We can slide our bolt. All arm is removed. For the passenger side, there's no All right, guys, so next we're going to be going to come up to the disconnector here, press located in these two holes here. We're going to got two more bolts on each side, 10-millimeter the other side and then your active aero will active aero out of the way, we're going to grab these four bolts that hold in our splash pan. And active aero and splash shield is removed, we're two bolts on each side that we're going to have be a good time to grab a buddy to help you hold up your bolt. Now you can carefully drop down your All right, guys, so now we moved our strut over up on the spring. We're going to twist this we're going to remove our nut here. Then we can off. Then we can do our switching process. it's loose. So now I'm going to grab an 8-millimeter wrench. I'm going to slide the to put this on top of our stud so it doesn't spin. until our nut is off. You want to make sure you hold the bottom. And now we can transfer Now we have our new spring on the compressor compress our spring so we can get our strut. Give slide our bottom washer onto the top of the top we'll thread that on. And right on the top You're going to line that up with the lower strut 19-millimeter, going to start tightening it down. you're going to throw that 8-millimeter can relieve the tension on the spring. All All right, guys, so in order to get our new our two bolts on the lower control arm so we have socket and we're just going to loosen this like so. Come on over to the other side. that goes all the way down. So now we can get grab and...no. So now we're going to line up our get these lined up. Just gonna thread one of now we can lift our lower control arm and line our our bolt through. Now, if this thing gives you a like so. We're going to grab our washer and can go back up top and we're going to tighten remaining nuts on. There we go. Now you can grab to tighten these up. Two more in the back. Now So now we can tackle the challenge of putting We're going to thread and push our long bolt to get that lined up. We can grab our upper to feed this through. Let's go. Yeah, there we put it on the backside. Thread that on our 22-millimeter wrench and we're going to tighten tightening this, we have our upper control it'll go in no problem. All right, now you So now we can tighten up our lower control arm mark where your eccentrics are so when you go So now we're gonna grab that 24-millimeter socket two down. Now we can install our new tie rod Set that off to the side. Now we're gonna we're gonna slide this into our tie rod. Then our to spin this on. It's nice and tight. Now we can that we have our tie rod facing up with the stud. All right, guys, so now we're gonna be sliding side and not the side that's threaded. I threw slides in a little easier. Now we're going to line what I like to do is I like to grab a bungee we're going to grab a pry bar and a hammer and spring. So now I'm going to line the end of my and hit it at the bottom. Now I'm going to All right, guys, so now that you have both of your Allen socket to remove this bolt. Crack that so we're going to remove this bolt, set that off oil in a transfer pump. I'm going to put this is full is once you have a steady stream coming a steady stream so we can remove from here. we're going to reinsert and tighten up we're going to reinsert our bolt, and we'll Allen socket. And now your gear oil is topped you can use some brake clean to clean up our So now we're gonna be installing our new ball the stud, thread our new nut on, and we can tighten this up. Make sure that we tighten line up with the hole in the stud. There pin in the hole of the stud. Going to grab Make sure that long end's facing down. We're we can twist over to the side, like so. Then So now we're going to install our knuckle. the splines here. So we're going to slide this we can grab our factory knuckle bolts. We're thread that in. So now that we have our first nut and thread this on so it doesn't disconnect So now I can grab my second bolt, throw that bolts down with our 22-millimeter socket. Now So now we're going to get the stud on the going to pull down to reveal the stud. included castle nut onto our stud here. this up with a 19-millimeter socket. And we're going to line the hole in the stud up with The straight is going to slide into the stud. into the side of the castle nut. So now you So now we're going to attach our tie rod to the into the stud. We're going to thread our castle 24-millimeter socket. Now we can slide our new nose pliers. I'm just gonna bend this upward. All that on the other side. Next, we'll reinstall thread in two lug nuts. Next, we'll slide on our them in up top here. Now we'll tighten these Now you can install the rotor and Next, we're going to tighten up our axle nut grab a pry bar and put it between the two lug 12-point socket and we're going to torque we could spin this over to here. All right. Now side. So now we can throw this gray cap over, the hole in the axle. We're going to slide our new bend this around. We'll go the opposite way We're going to center that over our hub. We're to tap around until this is fully seated. Then Now we're gonna reinstall our ABS thread this in to our new upper control socket. Remove this bolt here. I'm going to tighten that down. Then we'll come over remove our bolt. Have this bracket line up, with a 12-millimeter socket. Now we're going to Remove the bolt here. Insert our sensor, like that up with our 10-millimeter socket. Now So now we can install our new brake lines. We're you can see, this has a certain cut to it, which like so. Aim this into our brake line. Then we kit. I'm gonna slide these in to hold our hose line, push that into our new hose, and grab our our 10-millimeter wrench and we're going to doing that same process up top here. We're going like there, slide in our new clip. Now this fairly quickly so we don't lose our brake 10-millimeter wrench. There we go. So now that we're gonna be putting it onto this bracket here. set up just like that. So where this hook here and tighten that down with our 12-millimeter All right, guys, so we're ready to put on our sway with the kit and these longer bolts, which were the two holes so it looks like this. Then I'm the location, then we'll thread that in. So now in our longer bolts. So now before we tighten down end links. We're going to grab that adapter that so. Bring this into the stud first. We can thread we can get our top stud into our sway bar. Then bar end link, put that onto our new one. Now we tighten both of these down. Then repeat that on bar. Now we're going to grab a 17-millimeter bolts that hold in the sway bar. So now we're included with a spacer. We're gonna put it like and we're just going to thread this in. All All right, guys, so next step is reinstalling for you guys that in the instructions it includes block that we have here, but in our case for so. So now we can get this up into place. Now bar. Grab our bolts, two more over here. Then socket. So now we're gonna reinstall our active sides up. I'm going to thread that into the grab your 10-millimeter socket and tighten these All right, guys, I just wanna clarify, if you you're going to have to permanently is now lift blocks on the sway bars. it's going to hit and it will not close them with those six 10-millimeter bolts and All right, guys, so the first step of this arm in the rear. So I'm gonna grab a 19-millimeter bolt. Now we can lift up on our jack stand a going to keep raising that up. Now you can repeat now once you have both bolts removed, like so, we're gonna uninstall our rear shock absorber. wrench, and we're gonna remove this bolt. the top nut, we're gonna slide our 19-millimeter it sit there for a second because now we're going clamp that down. So now we can loosen up Set that off to the side. Now we can continue So if your rear mount is stuck in the stud, this out. I also recommend you thread your nut flying off. So I'm just going to line this and you can remove it. So now we're going to removing three bolts, these two and the socket. The top one. All right, now you can we're going to remove our sway bar end links. wrench to remove these two nuts. Now we can come size wrench to remove our lower nut. Now it knock the stud out of the sway bar, like so. Now All right, guys, so next step we're going to be grab a needle nose pliers and remove these off the line so it's free. Gonna do that other a pair of vice grips. We're gonna clamp that open 10-millimeter wrench. Just gonna loosen down on the ground because this is going spin this off by hand. All right. Now we got off to the side dangling down. Now we can it. Unscrew our fitting here. This will glasses so you don't get any of this brake Now we can tackle our lower hoses. Now for the as up top. We're going to grab our needle nose you go. Same for that lower one. All right. Good same as we did on the top. There we go, got That will relocate our vise grip down to our and we'll remove our fitting, take off our vice of that back end while you spin the fitting off. All right, guys, so before we remove our spring brackets so we can release the tension from our socket and remove these two bolts. Just slide And we're going to do that same process up here. the side, thread our bolt back into the hole. All lower our pole jacks as far as they can go. If lift your lift up a click or two so you have more can grab a pry bar. When you go under the spring Now that your driver's side spring is removed, All right, guys, so now for the rear install, coil. This thread here and stud is gonna be going be going through this slot here. We're going we're going to thread our included nut on the to be placed. We're going to grab our 15/16 wrench repeat this process on the other side. All right, we're going to use a spring compressor set them into the coil, depressing our pins, it's the same thing. There we go. So now we can Line this up. Now we're going to compress the All right, so now we have our spring the vehicle. We're going to make sure that you to line this up, get that lined up into place. coil going into the perch quite yet. We're going we can twist it into the perch. Now I'm we're gonna loosen up our coil. There we go. compressor and set our compressor off to that the end fits in just like that. Now you All right, guys, so now we're gonna install We're gonna slide that over the top. we're going to slide that in the stud and thread way just yet. We're going to leave it like to get it into our hole. Then we're going put that on top with our OEM nut. All right, you can raise your pole jacks like I'm doing and this hole here is gonna go through like so. Grab our OEM nut, thread that on top. and tighten up this top one. There we go, now tightening it up. Now we can tighten up our bottom ratcheting wrench to tighten this up. Good. Now All right, so now we can reinstall our OEM sway the plastic cover through our sway bar. Just going your sway bar. Now your stud will go through now we can tighten our two sway bar nuts up with repeat this process on the other side. So now we reusing the factory bolts that we took the old thread in our bolts, and for the other socket and we're going to tighten these three All right, guys, so now we're gonna be installing the left side of the top bracket is going the right side is going to be going to it down here. We're going to slide our brake slide our flange into here and we can thread this the vise grips and go behind the bracket we're gonna grab our open end 10-millimeter we're going to tighten up our flange. Make sure So now we have our new brake lines that were the lower one first. There is a pattern here that then we're gonna slide our new clips, like put that into our hose. We're going to thread grab our open 10-millimeter box wrench and until it gets snug. You want to make sure will start to leak. Good. Then you repeat this so now I have the lower hose in my hand. The lower farthest away from you. I'm going to slide that make sure we take our cap off. It's going to our hose and you can start threading it in. Then gonna tighten this up. All right, then you can that lined up, press our clip in, remove grab that 10-millimeter wrench, and we're gonna All right, guys, so we're in the home stretch our control arm up into our first mount. that end. Just going to thread this on a couple this hole does not line up with the control arm. do at home. You're gonna grab a ratchet strap this side. We're gonna bring this one over to our start ratcheting. While you do that, you can tug. Then we can thread that into the back. 19-millimeter socket, and we're going to tighten next one. We're going to grab a 19-millimeter can remove your ratchet and your install is suspension components are installed, you can Place our bracket over top, tighten that down up to our top one here, tighten this up with this process on the other side and your So now that our vehicle is raised up by 3 inches, because in select states your fog lights will be have to do is put in these fog light covers. So So the first thing we'll do to remove our bumper We're going to remove these ten 10-millimeter off to the side. Now we can come up to the front a light tug. Work your way around. Now you So now we can go up under the vehicle here with our 10-millimeter socket. Now you same 10-millimeter socket. Let's set these off going to disconnect these two connectors here. to remove our connector. Then we can grab a clip like so. I'm going to do that same thing for this we can move over to the other side. After you we're going to remove this push clip here. Now So now at this point we can remove our bumper. flares are and pull back to remove the clip. the other side. Make sure you hold the middle wiggle. Little bit from the bottom. Make sure just keep working it. All right, now your be removing this fan assembly. There's going perimeter of it. So we're going to remove bolts off to the side. Now we should All right, guys, next we have to grab pop all of these clips out and then we can start over here and make our way around. Now, we're gonna remove the connectors to our parking like so. Move on down to this middle one. Move fog light. Set that off to the side, grab our like so. Now we can move over to the side here. One more clip. on each side of this screwdriver. We're going to remove these screws. you hold up this side. Now you can remove So next we're going to have to remove this panel removal tool...clip removal tool, excuse wiring harness. Push this out of the way. Now we're gonna remove these three screws. Now we can our way around on these clips making sure that in place. I'm just going to bend these back. Your removal tool except when we get to these types. we're going to have to work our way little tabs released, this part of the trim piece it'll remove this part. Now you can repeat All right, so now we're gonna come through in clips. All we have to do is pull back on gonna go through even up here and do that same but make sure you don't pull them back far enough. here. So I'm going to grab our panel removal kind of like that. I'm gonna lift this up a we go. Over to this side, it's gonna...just here I'm going to flip this bumper over and From here we're going to pull up and we now once that cover is removed it exposes our fog light. So now we can grab a Phillips head on to our fog light. Now all we can do is slide that process for the other side. So now that we have our fog light dummy covers. So we're screws. Now we can tighten these back up with our So now that you have both of your fog light cover here. I'm gonna have this up. Going to side. Might be a little tricky to get them all over and we can reinsert our clips. So now we're going to grab these tabs and press them won't go anywhere. So now we're gonna reinsert under the upper trim, which will line up with little bit. I'm just gonna line up those clips There we go. Just like that, then we're going to we go. Then we can grab our three Phillips head its location. I'm going to grab my Phillips head Next, we're going to attach the side piece holes up with these raised holes over here. like so. We're going to grab our Phillips head first. I'm going to keep going around. Now I'm head screwdriver. Now you can repeat that process to clip our wiring harness back into place. Going way around. And don't forget to connect the side that for both sides. And we can continue making can continue our way around. Have this connector will be going into the dummy connectors that a plastic piece that fits into your connector, So now we can reinstall our fan assembly. our connectors are not in the way. We're going to with our 10-millimeter socket, and go back through get this back onto the vehicle. So now we can gonna line these top tabs up with our tabs and lined up. There we go. Now we can go around, reinstall our connectors on the passenger side, this process on the driver's side with your push We're going to thread these into place, and we'll So now we can reinstall our fender flares. We're press that down, like so. And we're gonna all around. Now we'll tighten all these up with that process on the other side. Now we got 4 bottom of our bumper, and we'll tighten So now we have to bleed our brakes. Our master work farthest away and work our way towards that. going to go from right rear to the other side, and time, you're going to make sure that you top off you don't want that to run out. So now we can get homemade brake bleeder. We have a tube that goes fresh brake fluid down here. And I also drilled put a zip tie on the end of our tube so we could So now to get started, we're in the right rear. of our bleeder valve. Set that boot off to the going to slide that over top, that zip ties there buddy and have him in the driver's seat, he's while he's holding, you're going to grab your you might have to do it a couple times since we brake fluid come out, then you close that back up so for the rear, it's going to be an 8-millimeter your buddy to pump up your brakes. Pump it up. those air bubbles coming through. I'm going up. Open it up. Make sure we don't let those air Holding. And keep that going. Tighten that up. One we have a clean, straight fluid coming through remove our hose here. Put our cover back on. And All right, so we tackled the driver's rear our passenger front. I'm gonna slide over our are a 10-millimeter wrench, and the backs are pump it up. He's holding. See all that air coming can see, it's starting to pump up some clean time for me. Actually, we'll go one more time. So we're good. We'll take off our bleeder, see can do the driver front. And then you're gonna and you wanna make sure that it's stiff and not All right, guys, so now that we have to top off our master cylinder. So or either one, it allows both. Going to grab our brake fluid. We don't have to go up too each cylinder. So we're just going to add this fluid's at. You've got to go up a little bit more. Remove our funnel. Set that down. We can grab our All right, guys, so there's one more to have to put in this park sensor if do is remove the passenger side headlight be the sensor on the back of that headlight, So that's going to wrap up the install on for your '22 to '23 Four-Wheel Drive System Excluding TRD Pro. Hope you guys and for all things Tundra, keep it