About a hundred years ago, companies in Consumers had everything they needed. So, Persuade people that they need MORE things! Nowadays, companies are studying your brain This is called neuromarketing. And... &quot;...neuromarketing is like... marketing on steroids.&quot; &quot;Companies know us better than we know ourselves.&quot; &quot;The brand exists nowhere else &quot;We're going tell you how companies In the 1950s, a clever marketer shocked He flashed the messages &quot;DRINK COCA-COLA&quot; briefly for the audience to even notice. counters in droves to buy Coke and popcorn. &quot;If this story sounds too good to be true, then that's because it is. Thankfully, &quot;Turned out it was all B.S. - he made that up. This is Prince Ghuman, a marketing Matt Johnson wrote a book on how companies So, the good thing is: we're not mindless our decisions subconsciously. And that's are trying to better understand how our brain &quot;Traditional marketing studies work like this. or do you want a chocolate bar? And I'd But... do I really want the apple?" &quot;We feel as if we're in control, we feel as if we're the author of our decisions and we're But study after study after study shows that generally speaking, pretty unaware of the inform and sometimes actually decide the &quot;In short: we don't always know what we apple or if we prefer the chocolate And that's why neuromarketers have adopted a range what's happening under the hood--inside consumers' and electroencephalograms measure activity direct our attention. Heart rate and skin &quot;For better or worse, people are complex Uma Karmarkar is a scholar whose research &quot;What neuroscience does is it gives us these elements that might not be fully conscious things that might also be contributing &quot;Take Cheetos, for example. When its parent about the brand, many said: well, it's a bit of a it turned out people got a real kick out of dust that they're covered in. It IS fun...&quot; orange dust on your fingers. There was and people kind of enjoyed it, even Frito-Lay took these findings and built an subversive pleasure. &quot;More and more businesses are investing which is happening in secret.&quot; also with the help of psychology and behavioral makes us tick. And they use this knowledge &quot;I'm going to give you four examples of this that One: They wear you down. thinking modes. There's what's called system 1, which is fast, unconscious and automatic. And then there's system 2, which is deliberate &quot;If I ask you: what is your name? System 1 will immediately have an answer to that question. But if I ask you what is 23 times 48, This requires effort. Now imagine, You have to find your way around the in a short amount of time. When you finally &quot;One way in which you can get somebody is actually through wearing them down. So system 2, very resource intensive, requires a lot of metabolic resources. we're much more likely to go with a much And that's why right at the end of your loads and loads of sugary snacks - that you Shopping malls exploit the same situation. quite frankly exhausting - so you're more prone to Two: They tell you what the right price is. &quot;Let's say you walk into a store and see a bottle of wine for, I don't know, let's say 15 dollars. Your brain doesn't really know So, it's immediately starting to look for some context.&quot; &quot;Typically, people don't really have a sense of price, like they don't really know how much wine This is Moran Cerf, a computer hacker turned &quot;People create their kind of impressions by information - but by sampling reality.&quot; The store will happily give by placing a second bottle next to it, costing 50$. Now your brain thinks: 15$, that's very likely you're going to buy this bottle. &quot;Our brains are like ships, we're looking for places to anchor, right? And adding any having an anchor helps.&quot; Three: They keep you on the treadmill. Another quirk of our brain is that it's constantly seeking pleasure. And the key word here is &quot;seeking&quot;. &quot;Once you're experiencing a sort get to bask in that pure pleasure of emotion which is enduring over time. And Because pleasure is so fleeting, to what's called the &quot;hedonic treadmill&quot;. &quot;...the iPhone 6...&quot; &quot;...the iPhone 6S...&quot; &quot;...iPhone 11...&quot; &quot;You buy an iPhone 8. It's a brand new physical clockwork, 12 months later, 8S comes out. Whatever the iPhone is now immediately gone. And now treadmill and look, chase the next pleasure.&quot; Four: They hide little nudges in plain sight. &quot;So... you remember that cinema Subliminal marketing messages like this, so are actually illegal in most countries. But a we just hide them in plain sight?&quot; Check out this ad from KFC. See anything unusual? Well, look again. There's an actual burger - which happens to cost 1 dollar. And check out this can. Coca-Cola made it look like it's smiling-- to tie in And in literally every ad for watches, the time Because that makes it look These types of subtle hints are called 'primers'. &quot;I would say right now, it's controversial whether school and in business school as kind of a it's easy to implement. For the small if you're trying to sell something&quot; &quot;If you see a 10:10 watch, you're not compelled by some physical force to go out and do everything like buying a watch, maybe you're very favorable is going to push you maybe a little bit further.&quot; And this is not limited to visual triggers. An experiment showed that if a customers buy more French wine. And if it &quot;A lot of this stuff is hiding in archives for to reveal it. But we would be silly to think design that companies are creating to So where does all this leave us? Are of our own, buying whatever corporations &quot;Totally mindless behavior is rare, total wide gray area and we can move the that are very informed and very kind of thorough. &quot;If you like something that's going to be or not you choose to spend money on it or your And that speaks a lot to the power that &quot;Now, neuromarketing is a very powerful tool. even we don't even have access to: our knowing how our brain works, can Have you ever come across any of the things What was...what was that? ... did you see that? Anyway. Let us know in the comments.