Efren Regato left the warmth of the For me it's ok. As long as I have work, People from more than 50 nations just 1300 kilometers In winter, it stays And in summer, Citizens of any country can live Many are fascinated by This is no nine to five job. You're out in nature and feel Filipino Efren Regato runs a on the northernmost He has plenty of work. because tourists Good. More work. More Good morning. Housekeeping! While still in the Philippines, he heard that this remote has well-paid jobs It's open to anyone He set out to begin his First time I arrived in the airport What kind of place is this? There's no trees. First time I've been feeling out of the airport. And then cold, it's In Manila, he used But it was a struggle Now he cleans up after others. He says it's a good job apart from when hotel Sometimes they are Sometimes it's getting worse It's crazy. Yeah, I am proud of myself that He lives in Longyearbyen. With just 2500 residents it's This footage was year, when there After two years of coronavirus visitors are finally That's a relief to He's a tour guide from Germany catering for He used to work as a schoolteacher Ten years ago, qualify for a lifelong he took off for the Back then, I wasn't even doing that same I am a bit restless. But at first, this was more of an just for a year. I never thought it would His brother Mario and In a few days, one-week expedition Today, they're off to On Svalbard, you residents here with around three Here, every decision You're dependent on on knowing how to use it Any decision you make can And the fact that every action counts is something that The coronavirus pandemic The lockdown and the lack of tourists Those two years At first, we thought we'd lose and then in summer But then summer came, and we realized that the would be cancelled too. And we thought: how much longer can we do this? He's now hoping for a bumper year, But first, the three will to find the right camping out here in the This couple also Elise Thil is from Belgium and her And, they're preparing for the due in just six weeks. I think you miss maybe the Being pregnant in Svalbard With no maternity clinic, pregnant women have to go At some point when I got we got a bit scared And we know that that you get evacuated with the So if you are after 24 weeks, you still need to be if you want to have a chance So that's when I realized And definitely that it is not a usual She plans to travel to the Norwegian Elise doesn't want Because the island has given her Her daily walks with the huskies but they're nothing compared working in an emergency Three years ago, You have so many patients to So you end up with a I had never been on edge I fell asleep while driving and At some point it was just She decided to visit her boyfriend on Svalbard's largest She was captivated by the And then during I fell even more in with the wildlife, the When you need something, you just So yeah, I think it's such a tight community She began a new Until COVID-19 almost forced Because here anyone who Meanwhile, Christian Bruttel searching for a suitable After driving 70 kilometers, that looks like it They need good ski slopes They've now reached We're no longer on so there, there and there -- we have And the wind actually pushes Well, the wind might not Wow it's cold! If the wind always blows towards Especially for beginners, by the wind to where so we have to be really careful. No forget it, look it's not We need about a meter depth. Two meters would be better. Then you can easily get standing height in your They're planning to go Out here in the snow at and without a warm shower. Sure, getting up in But you're getting up in this and you warm up quickly It's just an incredibly It's beautiful. Yeah amazing. But then it drops straight down. But the view! Yeah beautiful! With the crevasses back there. But it's no good. Both safety AND the They're hoping for better The visitors are due Heading out into the wilderness But for Efren Regato, that He doesn't have time anyway. I don't want to, because I can't go there. I am busy working. And then even if I'm I also helping my That's why I don't have He often works six and still he has to turn He's hoping to earn a lot as he's going on his first trip Not easy to go because You must save money first. A little bit excited Yeah, because it's been a long This one is okay. I turn off the light and His last room for the day. While out, he often livestreams whose comments the snow-covered seem to his relatives. Hi. Hello. How are you? This is your place. A nice place. Beautiful place. And then: it's cold. And then: a lot of ice, snow. A number of Filipinos their jobs during the pandemic. Without an income or state Now more workers That's why I'm going I just invite my sister Now, I don't accept because I don't Around a hundred Even though it's cold, this area by the sea is a meeting Efren also brought 23 year old Erwen Since I've been I always see the same thing So basically, most of my cousins they used to go out in the like hanging out But here I'm just always in It's still boring for me, I feel But he says leaving He'd like to go to university. But for the subjects he'd need to move to the So far, he's made little It's just too cold On the edge of town, there are Huskies are only allowed to be let The heavily pregnant Elise Franka Leiterer helping today. They look like puppies But they are seniors, Temperatures as low as Then there are the From late October there's no sun or If I would just listen to what and that is sleep all of the Yeah. You mess up your rhythm. Some days I really struggle in It is not easy. Usually we reverse we are more awake and we go and sleep in the Well it's nighttime 24/7, so it if you're awake at seven in the Except that the shop is closed. That's true. Some people have really For me it's more the because during the summer and I don't sleep enough. And when I don't sleep Svalbard has more than four from late April to late August. Elise and Loup select another step in getting their Their dream of living in the they both lost their jobs and They had virtually no where the cost That was definitely a I was not on any I was only on what so this kind of me any unemployment So I was basically So it was a lot of whatever we had And borrowing money and that I had to pay back as well. That, too, is part of When times are tough, Elise and Loup were on the the restrictions were eased. We worked almost In every single company that So last summer I worked in the same time, In the end I did the same numbers but doing something Then you consider, okay, I dropped everything and I And then if I have to go It was a bit stressful. Looks nice. It's now two o'clock While heading out to a second He had to replace a broken Ja. Let's go. They drive for After 170 kilometers and they arrive at the This time it's a winner. The sea looks beautiful! In addition to the spectacular like the depth of the Over 90 cm. Great. You'll never find We don't want to nitpick, it's Svalbard is the best place to The most important thing for The fact that there's only one A lot of the things But I think it's a You can even find It's a Papaya. 400 Pesos in the Philippines. You can buy fish and You can prepare food for two dinners If any product sells out, the The ship bringing fresh supplies The next one isn't due till the My salary here, compared it's a salary of a senator... Oh reindeer in the Another one. If you hit that animal For the past few months he's had to as he and his wife He mostly cooks Filipino dishes. Tonight, he's making Chicken It's hard now, because My wife has another They like each other I just give them free way. You are playing the same? Yeah, we're playing together. With whom? We're playing together the game. Where from? I don't know. Different places, from Germany, I think, you are Just go in. Run. The food is prepared. Ah, okay... I gotta finish. Christian Bruttel's company bought a thanks to help from investors. It was a gamble. And shortly after the Obviously, there's a huge and we couldn't do that during He was never no safety net Then as an exception, allowed to claim including those in But that only applied When your direct hundred thousand euros in just because one of the owners it certainly puts a dent in the and everyone is equal and It felt like major Following the lockdowns, And thankfully, things are busy. Despite that, they've from work for a Long time no see. It's a she? It's a she. It's four months that we And now it's just we are getting For me it's like: Ok, wow, is Yeah it is. I think it is crazier. From today to tomorrow But then as well we have It's more crowded. We But it's two years Two years of frustration for Exactly Their work here is When the tourists are here, But they do value the I know what you but the fact that rough environment this is people that not but also that actually when you're going And that brings it to another Efren Regato's sons find But they wouldn't want to It's just way too dangerous A lot of people on the side They do snatching phones like that and then ask for your money. You don't have any choice but For me it's a good place to bring my And then there's and then I think for my kids to grow. How does it taste? It's good. Not bad. It's just right. Longyearbyen normally gets It used to be mainly But many believe tourism Elise included. During this film shoot, she was The magnets would Together with three to open a rather unusual cafe. This is going to basically it is a place where We have a lot of people where they can meet dogs It looks almost ready, but we still But they made it, and the cafe Elise's dream of living in Svalbard, almost didn't work out. Now she has a new in the difficult But I still think, we can and find solutions that comes our way And we'll adapt Pretty happy about being When Efren Regato he plans to go to some of the something he could His family now see him as a They think that I have a lot at some fancy restaurant and like that and have And I am in charge I don't want to stay as because for me it's hard and My body is adapted And then maybe if I go back I go to a vacation, it might be, Here's lunch in here. We meet Christian his departure to His tour group I'm very thankful that we have tourists coming, and to the livelihood For a long time, It feels like the worst of the But I very much doubt Because it's a very busy life, it's hard work and it's So I don't think But for the time Svalbard is open to all those who and cope with the extremes. Most migrants move For them, the is a beautiful, but