This is the world. DCF 886. Threat Level And it is extremely rare. So rare, in fact. That this might But don't worry. Because I am going to tell you Can get your own. If you've been watching my channel then you know that the war power tools my main platform of cordless It's pretty rare for me to look at. Other tool companies and think, Oh, I wish I had that, because they're all However, there is one glaring exception Makita. Makita makes these really awesome Impact drivers And of course they do a special edition that I have just And I've been waiting. For the. Wall to follow suit in a similar way. And I've been waiting and they are just not doing it. So today I went on YouTube plastic motorcycle parts I wonder if I could do something similar So today. We are going to create our own. Blackout Power tools. I'm going to walk you through the process And hopefully by the end of the video you will be able to make something With all that being said. Let's rewind the clock. And I'm going to throw this video When I first started this project. All right. So I think we have everything Need right here. These are chemicals. That are some of the things We're going to set those aside for minute. And we're going to start by. Disassembling So I have to do what impact guns here? And then I also have a little craft and if there would be any difference in dying So let's start by disassembling these guys to be done. So why die and not some sort of paint product It's a good question, but I think Down to durability. A paint finish is just going to be sitting And the nice thing about a dye is that it and dies below the surface. So if these get. Any scratches Or anything like that, To the original. Yellow down below so that all the screws kind of wants to. Come apart. Really? So there's something right here. But what is this keeping you together? Oh, it's because I'm an idiot and I. Forgot a screw. I will do it every time. Okay, now. Now it comes apart much easier. Look at the inside of this thing. This is pretty impressive. It's also extremely. Dirty. Real quick, I'm and it's disassembled state, so hopefully How do you come apart? Oh, oh, oh. Maybe it was just years of grime That's actually really cool. That the whole thing is just like one unit They actually made this really easy Well, I'll definitely clean that up. But first, I'm kind of curious, Did you electrocute yourself? Well, I was trying to use my Yeah, that works. That's funny. And I almost forgot. We also have to. Disassemble the craftsman. Or bottom stuff. They come in a part. No problem. But up here at the top is still connected Yes. The hidden screw. This is actually At the end of the day, not much more All right. Let's get these guys cleaned up and then we can move on to the next step I don't know what to call this. In order The best possible chance Are going. To clean and grease these tools over the years So we're just going to. Scrub So these guys are now just about as clean So there's one last little thing Before we actually. Start dying. Most power tools come covered which obviously aren't going to die So I just use a heat gun to peel them off You know what? I actually just realize it's Battery. Case as well. So just give me a second I've never actually opened one of these The battery case. Looks like on the inside. Obviously, standard disclaimer blah blah blah. You guys get it? You can decide for yourself Oh, look at that. Splits right there. Right there. Beauty. That's actually really easy. Perfect. The only yellow piece is its own We don't even really have to disassemble All right. Now on to the man science. Portion of this. Video. So there are a few things Guess, first and foremost. You're going to need a. Vessel I just got this metal baking sheet I think that was about $10. You are going to need this. Writ dimer synthetic dye. That synthetic part I was only able to find this Color which. Looks pretty close to black, A really dark gray. Those were, I think. 12, 13 bucks. Each. Keep in mind, that's Canadian. You're going to need We'll talk more And then you are going to need a hot. Plate or. Some sort of method. In order to. Heat up your dye water. Acetone mixture. So what we're going to do to start Slash baking So that our parts. Can be fully submerged And then, you know, Just you want them to be well in coverage. So that over time talking to that, it should be room temperature water, too, the acetone in a minute and it can react Okay, that's about enough. And now the next step is going to be I got two bottles because. I figure more is. Probably better than too little. So this stuff should. Theoretically be pretty powerful. So I want to. Be sure that you don't. Get it. Oh, that's really cool. Look, I wish I film this close up. That is awesome. Oh, well, next time, right? What was I saying beforehand? You probably want to be careful. And not get this stuff on your clothes For dyeing. Clothes So you want to add The ratio of acetone that you use, you kind of So we'll see how seven ounces does. If it's not enough, So the idea with the acetone Up the pores, the plastic. And allow the dye to penetrate into it. Without the acetone. You're barely going to get. Any. Dye transfer at. All. Oh my God. If I spill this, it is going to make So it's going. To be careful. Oh, there we go. Now, for the fun part. You know what? We are working. With acetone think I should probably. Put all my respirators. The stuff is going to get nasty. And I'll also throw on some. Extractor. Fans, open So do our best to mitigate as many fumes So I'm using my little laser thermometer of our concoction, Degrees Right now but you can see Oh no. Is worried this might happen So you see this rivet here It's letting out Maybe I can pass that with some hot glue. I don't have a lot of faith As we approach the 200 mark, It's rate of acceleration or whatever. It's taking a long time to go That's what I'm trying to say. Also, I'm holding my laser gun sideways You know, to be honest, I'm having a pretty hard time The highest I'm reading right In the interest of not having this I'm just going to kind of go for it I'll keep the heat on and hopefully But yeah, let's, let's put some parts in. Oh, drop that to find space in there. Sure you got a bigger vessel for. Oh or and you know So just a touch more acetone example of why you don't add acetone After it's already heated. Here you go. I was worried that I boiled. Off too much acetone while I was getting but this was definitely not. The right way to add more. If I had to do this. All over again, Ounces of acetone instead of that seven. Okay, it's been all of like 5 minutes. 3000 might indeed be working. So you can see on the inside, oh, there's like an air bubble but the inside of it hasn't changed. But yeah, that's doing good. Okay, what about the craftsman? Work as much as the yellow I wonder if they use a different plastic but it does seem to be affecting it. So we're just going to leave that Oh, look at that. Look at that. Oh, that is. Yeah. Oh, man, I hope I've done this now. Okay. All right. Keep it in the tie. Do its thing. Get back in there, Sweets. I can't believe it's working so well. Hey, it's 10 minutes later. Let's do a quick update. Oh, man, the water is taking the dye. Really well. Look at that. That's Check the craftsman. This is the type of red we started with. This is a red. It's definitely I guess, You know, in the interest going to take the craftsman guys out and then I'm going to actually do because the wall plastic So I took the craftsman shells. Out and then I strip down a dual DC seven that to the dye that as you can imagine, Drill slash driver set while I waited for the drill Taking with, I decided to get a. Jumpstart on durability. Testing those craftsman. Parts. That seems to be on there pretty good. I mean, if you scratch deep enough But you had to go pretty deep Yeah. So like at least like a 16th in there plastic again. Really interesting. You know what I should do my scratch test on the inside quite absorb evenly into the craftsman I wonder why at this point. The original tool to impact for a little over 2 hours Was going to get. Are look how good that looks. Okay, let's do a scratch test again here. So then the dye is in there. Really? I have to go at it One thing that I saw while doing. The research. For this video Whatever you're dying a quick wipe down Any excess dye This helps to give you a much more Transfer from happening later on down the. Line. As a final step, I gave the. Parts The sink. And then started piecing. My impact. Driver back together. And I realized that. I missed this tiny little bit of yellow Color, so I just blocked that sharpie. Then it was time to test and. Make sure that I put everything back. All right. Well, I'm not sure if it's a work. Sure does. That I did think about Removing the stickers, but. I wanted. These tools to look as factory So I decided to put them back on. Okay, now let's see how our drill's doing. Yeah, that doesn't look for why is this working? This has been in here for, like, I don't That's disappointing, to say the least. Despite being slightly disappointed I gave the drill shell the same after. Treatment and then piece it back together The flashlight. All right. So time for a little bit of mortem Why did this one work so well Didn't work all. That well? Truth be told, I don't really know. So I can speculate One idea that I had Manufacturing process at. A certain point and started using a different type Because I believe these two. Are. Significantly newer than this. This is a DCF 86 and. It's probably about three or four years Probably made in the last two years. It's also possible this soaked up all the dye early on But I don't really know about that because the Craftsman Housing as this and clearly the impact So I don't think that the only other theory that I had Evaporated. Early on and it wasn't able to penetrate into But again, because the Craftsman case was in So yeah, I really think it comes down Plastic at the end of the day, I mean, yeah, I set out to make it black got like a same look I could see this actually being a special edition tool And same thing with the deep I think this actually looks really cool. What a practicality. I mean, you guys saw when I scratched away at the inside of the case on this one, So you would really have to mark Before you saw the original yellow color Another thing that I was worried about. And I'm actually quite pleased by I just watched them in the sink from the grip. I was really worried about the rubber Transferring the dye to my hands, now. But yeah, my hands are still clean And now for the big question, would I recommend that other people do I mean, yeah, if you think that, you know, investing an afternoon of your time into dyeing And I think. Go for it. This is a great way. To distinguish your tools from Or if you're. Just kind of like me I think this is a fun little law I've also kind of hoping as a way to send a message to the world Special Edition Blacked Out Tools The way So let me know down in the comments you could buy on store shelves I know I would. I would even a small 10 to $15 premium Oh, and just in case you guys forgot, this is what we started with So pretty dramatic difference, I'd say. Yeah, that's crazy. I love how this looks. On that note, I think. We are. Done here. Thank you so much for watching. Big, big, big. Thank you to all my Patreon supporters. You guys rock. Really appreciate. The support. Helps make these videos possible to all the products All right, everybody, that is it for me. And I will see you