Man look at this place! How can we do an interview after this magical moment? First of all, thank you so much, RY, for this magical, poetic moment that we just lived. - Yeah, thank you. We did it together. - Oh, yeah. - We both put in so much energy. Everybody here did an incredible feat. I don't think people know how deep we are in this wilderness right now. You know, we're in a place that people aren't normally allowed to be and we bought in so much stuff to make this happen for this very special moment. So I'm as grateful as you are! So much work, so much love. Do you think that everything happens for a reason? - I do. Yeah. Yesterday we had those troubles and it was hard to pull it off. When you go live like this, it's such a rare moment where you feel you feel like touching everything at the same time, right? Because you know that this music and this moment is going out to people and yesterday we were so close. But today was just the right moment for it all to happen. Yeah, exactly. What was the reason today? You know, there was a different attitude. I think there was a pressure on it yesterday. I think it's one of the hardest ones you guys have done? - It's the hardest one, I can say. It's the hardest one you've ever done and I think it was the hardest one we've ever done in a way: this kind of show, this kind of preparation this kind of mindset, focus. And so yesterday there was this energy around it and maybe it was that energy that didn't allow it to happen-- who knows? But it kind of released today in me and I looked around at people and I just kind of knew that today was gonna be the day. I'm so grateful. I mean look at this sky. Look at this place. I'm about to take my clothes off and jump in the water. I think after the interview, right? I heard you yesterday--no, the day before yesterday saying that this place for you had a feminine energy. Can you elaborate a bit more? Well, it's so wild and powerful and there's a softness to it, too. And I guess in some ways the the feminine resides: there's a strength and power in the feminine of course. In many ways, I see it as a more powerful essence than the masculine and this land has this deep-- water for me is a very feminine place. A very open and an understanding place. I go to the ocean every day in my life. I go to water wherever I can, so being in this vast kind of desert with all this fresh water and it's not so far from the sea. Yeah, it's very close! It's like, there's nowhere like this in the world under the Milky Way and there's this rolling like sensuality to the land here. But ultimately it's this like incredibly powerful place that you feel like you're just visiting. And for me in a way the feminine and creativity and that muse energy is that, you know? It's to be left alone and respected in its essence. I see. And when you arrived you were also speaking about colors, shades--like the aesthetics is very important for you and your work. What were the first word that came to your mind when you arrived in this place? It's astonishing. It's mind-blowing. I haven't been-- I've traveled the world a lot. We both have. But I haven't been anywhere this... that's like this. There's something about these tones, these blues and whites that go off into infinity. The more time I spend here, the more I feel connected to it, you know, and I don't know. I mean I'd love to spend another week out here, I'm really connected, you know. I think we would all like to do that. Yeah, yeah, we've been there for four days. I mean in the desert like this, installing everything here. Yeah, and what's also really beautiful here is that it evolves and changes all the day, you know. In the morning it's really totally different from now for example. In two weeks, it would be a completely different landscape in some ways. And it's so incredible that wind and water has done this. This is rainwater that you see here and all these dunes from the wind. So it's sculpted by nature in the most incredible, architectural, you know, sculptural landscape you could ever imagine. I mean, this is art at its finest. And we get to immerse ourselves in here and swim in it together and... Just grateful. Grateful to be here. Yeah, let's speak about music now. I saw in an interview-- by the way, one of the most beautiful, I mean one of the best interviews I've ever seen of yours six years ago--I think FaceCulture. Very very nice interview. After that interview, I told myself: how can I do another interview? And you were saying that during, like when you're playing in a normal concert, you feel that you're more giving than receiving. Is it still the same? And today did you feel the same or what did you feel in terms of? Yeah, I mean art--music for me, and art and creation has become very much an act of service in a way. There is a part of my humanness underneath the artist that would like to just be at home. There's a part of me as a man that would like to not tour the world and not travel and not have to leave. But for me it's... When you take a path and you choose it, there's a dedication to it and there's a selflessness in that. And there's a... You're an active service. So for me, going on tour and playing for people is very much an active giving. Today is... Today felt like the giving for all of us here. But in my heart and in my mind I was holding people around the world. You know, I really thought of them because ultimately, we are all doing this for them. What's incredible about this group--you guys and I think my team--is we're trying to move past an ego here. We're trying to move past an idea of this being about us and us creating something bigger and more beautiful to share and so I think we're all giving in that way and you know, it takes a team to do it well together. Yeah. Giving and this time not really receiving because we were totally in the blind. We have no network here. I mean except the satellite connection that makes it possible, but no network, no Internet. So it's very difficult. Yeah. Yeah, so we received your questions online by satellite as well. So it's kind of crazy. And by the way, I have some questions from the online audience-- - I would love that. Absolutely. --that I will ask you. But I wanted to ask you first about this quartet. You had two musicians with--I mean your band--with you. But this time you wanted to have a quartet. Why did you want to add this? I've been performing with a lot of orchestras around the world over the last few years and... When I think about giving a full essence of my work, there's a part of that-- I love the idea of including that orchestral element. And it's so challenging to pull it off. I mean, it's near impossible the amount of things we had to do to get here to make it sound good, to figure it out: the wind is a huge issue. So trying to figure out all those things is a feat but as much as--look where we are! I mean the energy that you've given for us to be here, you guys Cercle. For me, I wanted to meet you there. I wanted to give my whole heart and soul here. So you know flying in a quartet from Sao Paulo and and rehearsing with them and teaching them and figuring it out together so that we could be here and do this. For me, it felt like meeting this land and meeting the enormity and the beauty of this moment and trying to do it as deeply and as fully as we could. So that was the quartet and the idea and it was crazy, but we pulled it off. Yeah, you pulled it off! How did you find them? Like I mean, what's the process? Did you do it yourself? I asked my team and they went out-- my management, my teams and they sourced and asked other people. You know, we were obviously--my teams are in different parts of the world-- so we got videos of them playing, we kind of researched and resourced them. And it felt beautiful to have a Brazilian quartet being here in Brazil and including Brazilian musicians and these players with us felt the right thing to do. But you know, I've gotten to play with some incredible orchestras the last few years: LA Phil, you know, London Contemporary Orchestra, Brussels Philharmonic. So I just feel incredibly humbled. I mean, they're much more deeply immersed in the musical theory than I am. I'm a feeling guy and I know how to play my instruments, and a producer most of all. So I just look at the whole thing of how can I? How can I make this feel more powerful? How can this feel more deeply for people and that's the essence that leads me for all things, including strings. I think you totally made it. Thank you. You told me just a few minutes ago that you were surfing for a long time. You were born in Australia in small island, you surfed for 30 years, I think. So you have a lot of experience in surfing. I feel that surfing and doing music, it has its common points. Do you see any common points? What are they? Yeah, I think both of them are deep meditation. And for me, those things are really important to me the immersion within something. To leave the land, to leave the identity of who you are and enter the ocean. It means you leave your clothes behind, you leave you leave your prestige or your lack of money--or all your money-- it all stays on the sand. When you're in the water, you're immersed in this place and there's a egalitarian nature that comes to it. Because you realize that you're a part of nature and a part of connection to something much more powerful. And music, the veil gets thin in the same way--the veil between this and kind of the spiritual world I guess. For me, I enter a state when I'm playing that the mind is gone. You know? So I think in that way they're similar. For me the ocean is this beautiful balance point because music, it takes a lot of energy to do what we do. And the release of the water is like this perfect balance point for me. And solitude, right? And a lot of solitude. You know what's crazy? Is I just figured out in the last few years that I'm a total introvert. It's like I didn't understand before. I was wondering why I always wanted to leave and have these moments alone and recluse. Why I make my art alone, why I live alone, you know, live in the mountains. How did you realize? Someone was talking about what introverts do at parties. They were talking about how introverts will take breaks from parties. They'll leave, they'll just like go to the bathroom, but then they'll just go to the bathroom for a long time. - I'm the same! - Or they'll just go outside for a while--for no particular reason. And it's almost like a reset to the nervous system. Because I love my community, I love my people and then I need to be alone again. And for me, I need to be alone to do this deep searching to make this kind of art. It's not based on: &quot;Oh, that's a cool drop&quot; or &quot;oh, that's a great riff&quot; It's based on like: Am I connected to this work? Can I share it from the purity of my heart for others and can it make others, you know touch parts of themselves and their heart in a way? So it takes an element of that reclusive nature to get there and that solitude for sure. You are not always alone. Today you were not alone. But you also collaborated with a lot of artists: Olafur Arnalds in your last album. Also, you have a deep connection with Frank Wiedemann from Ame. And I saw a recent collaboration with Drake that I can qualify as unexpected. Would you qualify it like this? Yeah, I mean for me I think the artists at the top of their level I really respect. It doesn't matter what the genre is. Frank is one of the best, you know techno and house producers in the world and also very musical. We respect each other so much. You know Olafur I think is one of the best neo-classical composers of our time along with Nils and and some other guys and he really helped start that movement so there's a lot of respect. And I feel honored that they respect me and want to work with me and collaborate and the Drake thing, it comes out of the same field. I think what's beautiful is that they're not coming to me looking for me to do something other than what I do. It was about producing and writing with them in a way that bought more emotion and some gravity, and then we put some heavy kick drums in there. But that's the beauty of collaboration you can transcend genre and style and it helps me grow as a producer and as a as an artist, so I just don't like the culture vulture? That's what somebody said earlier, this expression of like taking something that someone's done well and replicating it. Oh yeah. So I generally shy away from people in that kind of mode of creation. But obviously Drake has been creating, you know a really unique sound for a long time and he wanted to produce more in a kind of like a house techno world, but then we ended up doing hip-hop track. So who knows, you know? With Gordo as well. With Gordo yeah, who's awesome--just a positive guy. Yeah, Gordo. What's up my man? He's awesome. I look forward to more music together brother. Amazing. I will also check now the online questions. Yeah, I'm excited for them. Questions from Waves and Raves. A great name. That's like my life. Is there any artist dead or alive who you would like to collaborate with and what kind of music did you love when you were little? Little. I grew up listening to my dad's record collection a lot which was a lot of folk and and kind of I guess like with some Motown and stuff like that, and then I ended up finding artists that changed my world. I got into grunge. That was really big for me And then Jeff Buckley kind of changed my perspective on how you could bring-- One of the crew and I were having a conversation about this, that you can bring as much gravity and power in a delicate sense, you know, you got loud guitars and heavy kick drums, but you can also do it with the subtlety. And it brings as much gravity. And for me I really wanted to explore that, so that's kind of how I ended up finding my sound through definitely Jeff Buckley and artists like that that influenced me. What was the other part of the question? Which other artists, dead or alive, you want to collaborate? Oh, dead or alive! Maybe him or Nirvana? No, I think I would probably want to work with people in different genres, completely different. You know the whole like movement of sound in like Pakistani culture, for example. Like Nusrat Ali Khan or like the classical ragas in India. There's so many incredible things that I would love to do. But I don't I think it would be more composers and creators than it would be like another singer. I feel like we might get in the way of each other a bit. - Yeah, okay. And question from Christina Mokanu: you are touching us with your songs, but what is moving, touching you? That's a great question. You could take that in many ways, right? I'll stay away from the sensual side of it. You know, for me, I get touched by the human experience and I try to delve deeply into what life feels like in my heart. Love, sensuality is huge for me. Those intimacies, those connections that you have. My experience that transcends beyond that to more of the spiritual realm, you know, and like the Sufi poets would talk about you know, they would speak about God, but they were talking about like a beloved. They were saying &quot;my love&quot;, &quot;my beloved&quot; but they're talking about spirit. And so it's about kind of I guess the inspiration between like nature, spirit, the feminine are probably the most influential on my work. and in my life. And I've been moving a lot more deeply into community as well and finding a beautiful connection in my community of inspiration. Okay, great. Well Ry, thank you very much for for this beautiful moment. - Thank you. I also wanted to thank the --sorry. Oh, yeah, I wanted to to to thank the whole crew: of course from Cercle, Cercle crew, but also from Lucca and Leo and his team--SNTS team for their great work. As we've said-- - Absolutely. --it was like the hardest show we pulled off. After a first attempt yesterday, we did it today. So, thank you very much to them. Also, thank you very much to Heineken for their support and SES, which is the satellite company that helped us make that work and make it work live--real live. You're watching us live. We have also a little tradition at Cercle: it's the mystery box. A little gift from our local promoter here. It's a very special craft. - Here we go. Woouh! What are these guys? So these are some very local special crafts from here. And we have for everyone in the team like all the crew and also some local jam from here. - Yes! Give me that. Thank you so much. You know one of the things that I noticed coming into this area was there's a kind of such a connection of the people to the land right? You feel it. I just heard that there's people living out here, that have been living out here in the National Park for a long time. There's a quality of like healthy isolation in a way that I see in the people. Where there's this... Not influenced by the rest of the world at the moment, and I was thinking actually moment, and I was thinking actually of... Look there's a Brazilian flag too! - Of course. I was thinking about how much I'd love to explore here. And how much I'd love to visit this beautiful country again. This is my first time here in Brazil, and I've wanted to come here for a long time and and I just want to say thanks to all the Brazilian community and fans out there. It's an incredible country, and I really look forward to coming back and playing some shows and I'm honored to have these. They're gonna travel with me to Europe on tour. So these are gonna be little figures I'll put them on like you know a little altar. Yeah. And I'll take care of them and they'll come with me--so a part of this place, a lot of this place will reside in my heart. But a part of the people and the creation from this place will travel with me now. I think we will remember this forever. Thank you so much, right? And thank you to all of you for watching. Yes, I already told. Bye-bye everyone. - Thank you!