- Like many of you, we've spent a lot of money These Red bricks for our cost a whopping $350 a pop, but that isn't even the You see, even rechargeable are consumable in a sense. After a few years of regular use, this guy right here gets of battery life. And, that's on a good day, which got us thinking The battery management system, or BMS, which handles charging and safety, that's fine too. So, would anything prevent us from just swapping out saving us some money and keeping needless Well, you've already seen So, I think you know the answer to that, but what you don't know is just how deep this or who our sponsor is, iFixit, though, in fairness, you might have seen that one coming. Is the battery in your device not lasting as long as it used to? Looking for a new project? iFixit has you covered. Stay tuned to the end of this video to learn about their (upbeat music) Let's get this out of the way. While we have dabbled in it before, DIY battery repair can be very sketchy, especially with lithium cells. And, we would strongly recommend leaving this sort of but the difficulty of the work Let me show you what I mean. Most lithium based packs a case to protect the sparky bits, the pack itself made they are 18650s in this case, and a battery management system or BMS. The BMS is the brains monitoring and controlling the charge and discharge rates of Now, good ones will contain like overcharge protection, short circuit protection, and the like, meaning that they act as against catastrophic failure, but they aren't the only one, the second safety is built in the form of a pressure relief vent, that it's right here on It's designed to vent the by internal short circuits that naturally occur as the cell ages. This prevents the cell from pressurizing, creating an explosion hazard. You've probably experienced cell bulging or expansion before if you've got a really It's a similar idea, except that 18650s have which won't just puff up. So, with all that outta the Let's head to the shop. (explosion in background) Since our original intention was to replace the cells inside many of our aging battery packs, not just make a video about it, we snapped up this beast of a 30 kilogram spot for about $150. Seemed like a good investment, but it didn't have the correct leads on it for battery spot welding. So, $70 worth of Amazon shopping later, and we've got a pretty solid We'll have a link down below and compared to our DIY lead so far, this is working a lot better. Before we begin, let's talk to safety precautions. We've got our fire extinguisher, though that's unlikely with a lithium fire. So, we've also got our with a fire brick that we'll be doing our actual welding on, gloves and tongs, in case we actually need a sand bucket with additional sand to dump over top of it, our fume hood, as well as a pre-propped door for us to take that sand in the event that we Next up, let's talk about because we have multiples we actually pre-disassembled so that we can get going right away. But, the process is simple. You just want to de solder the leads that run between the BMS which includes the power leads, the balance charging leads, which are these guys right here, as well as this thermistor, which is going to monitor assuming that we are able with the new BMS. One other critical safety measure, is disposal of our old cells. We're gonna go ahead and cover up all of the contacts with something non-conductive, like electrical tape and And, you might be thinking to yourself, well, gee, Linus, that pack probably only has Why don't you just swap No, we don't do that. We never ever do that. There's lots of electrical Don't do it. All new cells. Of course, getting your hands on new cells is not always the simplest thing ever. And, you need to make sure that you do your due diligence to ensure that you're rather than counterfeit ones which can have issues with and safety. We picked these up from a local vape shop that we have enough of a And, what Colin's doing not to make sure that they're genuine, but rather to make sure that they're all at a that when we go and they're not gonna suddenly (grunting) equalize. - Yeah, and it's good we did that, 'cause I found five cells that are low. So, these 3.2 volts where - Depending on how long it's it might have drained more or less. And, we don't want that. Our next order of business in exactly the same orientation before we spot weld them together. And, there are a number You can get these little But, unfortunately for us, if we compare to our assembled pack, these leave a space, as advertised, and the original pack does not. So, we might have to if we want to try to fit our One idea we had was to and use it as a kind of holder, here we go, for our new cells, and then pop it out when we're done. Maybe, cut it away while we spot weld it. I don't know. Another complication is that we are using Whoop, there we are. Make sure you're using while Red is using that look a little bit different. What do you lean towards, Colin? Using this boy as a holder? - [Colin] I think we Yeah, that way we can solder the topside, flip it over, and solder the bottom side, while still having support - I really like it. Let's run it through the band saw. (saw whirring) So, these are all positive terminal up. Boopity, boop, boop, boop. Oh, this is gonna work okay. I think what we're gonna-- (crosstalk) We're gonna put them on and then yeah. And, then we'll wrap them and then I think we're Colin was like, I don't think in the original housing. And, I'm like, I wanna try. My life's in your hands, Colin. - [David] Actually, all of our lives are in your hands, Linus. - Alright. (grunting) That's not good. I'm kind of imagining that I hold this and you wrap the tape. There we go. I have seen dumber things. Now, at this point, we could start laying and spot welding everything together, but if we make even evacuating this room, and, B, starting our project So, we wanna go ahead Now, we got this all dialed in for a single layer of nickel By the way, shout out for giving us a bunch of testers here. But, what we haven't tried is two layers. So, I'm gonna play around and see if we can get on some of our test cells here. First spot weld, there's a little bit of See, we want that spring to go down. Then, we're gonna go ahead and... It's definitely on there. Let's grab another one - [Colin] You should usually do two hits. - Oh, I will. I will. I will. Don't worry. So, we're doing a weld heat of 690, a ramp speed of three, and we think this means 14 milliseconds. Let's see how it handles two - [Colin] I think it'll be fine. - You know what? I don't think we have to Oh, no, it popped. Okay. - [Colin] Try again. Just clean up the tip. - Okay, whew. - [Colin] Now, do that 32 more times. - Okay, this is pretty sweet. (laughing) I'm having fun. Now, this is where things We're about to do our second layer. Colin, you wanna have a look - [Colin] I need a clipboard - Yeah, thanks. - [Colin] It looks like a battery pack. - This is the part I'm most nervous about, because we need to do four cells in a row, and this is where we're positive and negative terminals. So, this is where we find out Hoping for no sparks. No sparks, Colin. - [Colin] Yay. - You sound less enthusiastic than me. Were you hoping for some sparks? The thing about super high current is that it doesn't just melt your nickel and your cell together. It also melts your tips You know what? Maybe, we won't have the link to where to buy these down below there. Really not that great. - [Colin] Okay, great. - I'd also like to take a moment to point out that I'm a So, if you're looking to actually build your own battery packs, there are lots of other (censoring beep) - [Colin] Yep. - That was a matter of time. Ah, fudge. Well, we popped one. Ah, think I didn't clean Well, that was a bummer, but the good news is the video's not over. We had a backup plan, because we knew going into this that lithium batteries are than the nickel metal hydride batteries that you might find in your Not only are the cases much thinner, which improves power density, but makes them more but the lithium inside them is chemically much more reactive. You guys have probably seen the handful of videos on the news of electric vehicles bursting into flames. That's a lithium battery Not only are they but the smoke they emit is toxic too. We actually dumped more sand on that and moved it away from the There will be no fire there. So, here is what our backup plan is. Rather than trying to we're gonna take one of our our smaller which has just four cells and try to rebuild this one. The silver lining in all this is that now you guys get So, there you go. We've pulled the housing I'm sure all of the DIY Have already left their comments. Wow, they're using really Look at this. The minimum possible - [Colin] Backup sand bins right here. - Yeah, we got it? Alright, thanks, Colin. Anger level's so high right now. (electrical zapping) (metal clanging) (censored beep) (censored beep) Well, we're down to four matching cells. So, this will be our last attempt. Are you guys ready to go again? - [David] Yeah, I've got a good feeling - What we need to check now is if my leads are going to This guy is gonna go here and So, I'm just gonna trim those down. Here we go. And, then, I'm gonna double check again to make sure I snip off the right part. I'm okay. I'm okay, boys. You know what? Now's a good time to throw Tell me something, David. - [David] Yep? - Would you put this pack in a camera? - [David] Do I own the - It's my camera - Maybe. (Linus and David chuckling) - And, this is where we (censored beep) Do you believe? - [David] I believe. - [Colin] Sandpaper between. - Yeah, you better believe it. (metal scraping) Two more strips. And, then this one, this last one here actually Do we got this, guys? Theoretically, that's it. Where's the multi meter? We should all see seven volts. Here we go, boys. - [Colin] Better have seven volts. - 6.98, we're short. (Colin groaning) (Linus laughing) Kidding, kidding, kidding. I just wanna cut away Rats, I cut away more of it Let's solder a wire to it. (censored beep) (censored beep) We had a mishap with our And, unfortunately, when I saw the spark, I kind of jerked, and moved fast, and I'm not sure whether the spark was from shorting the So, we might have killed the BMS, which means that we had to go find another which was also on its last legs anyway. And, we are going to use that BMS. So, I'm just gonna go What do you think guys? - [Colin] Much higher chance. - Nothing. This time, I'm surprised. - [Colin] That's as good as you can get. - Yeah, there's nothing... We didn't do anything wrong this time. - [Colin] Check the pack voltage. - [Linus] Battery. - [Colin] Seven volts. - All that means is that these pads are definitely connected. Please, tell me this is a cheap light. - [David] It's a monitor. It's not cheap. - Oh, it's a... (gasping) That's it. This time, I'm sure we The pack is assembled correctly. The BMS was went straight out I am really surprised this didn't work. Actually, point of but not surprised. Let's talk about that. We discovered in our initial that even if we had successfully for this Red brick, it wouldn't have come back to life. And, the reason for that is because battery manufacturers There are multiple tiers of One of the simplest is where manufacturers use single use fasteners, and other similar strategies to make repairing their Sometimes this is just plain not caring about the user or the environment, while other times, this happens for malicious reasons, like planned obsolescence. Either way, I promise neither of them will ever happen with our Get yours today. The next tier of anti is soft obstruction. This is almost always on purpose and exists solely to prevent from repairing or with manufacturers often citing That is what we ran into with, well, would've run into with our Red pack and appears to be what we But, how are they doing that? Well, there are four dumb, basic, smart, and evil. Dumb is no BMS at all, like these RC lipo batteries, each cell's voltage is maintained by a much more sophisticated using the balance lead. A basic BMS allows you to safely use and charge the battery while protecting against under So, a lot better than nothing. A smart BMS will include cell balancing and some level of capacity learning, along with self resetting for faults, and, ideally, the ability to resell, no, not like on Facebook marketplace, to replace the cells like we attempted today. Finally, there's evil BMSs, which thankfully we don't What makes them evil is that after a set they will switch off permanently, even if they could still work. And, if you, as a manufacturer, ever built this sort shame on you. All of which raises some questions then. What exactly did we see today? According to Tyler from THTbattery.com, Red batteries, at least these older Red bricks, are extremely challenging to re-cell, because there's a good chance the BMS will simply not He hasn't put the R&amp;D 'cause there just haven't but there are a couple The malicious one is that could be using software to detect either cell disconnection or a change in capacity that will shut down the BMS on purpose. In which case, it's basically an evil one, for all intents and purposes. The good news is that replacing the BMS with a generic one for about $17 could get you back up and running, if you don't need the or anything like that. The careless possibility is for the BMS's programming if it loses power. Given the cost difference, this honestly could also be considered a malicious design decision. Now, something that I wanna is that I am not advocating for user serviceable battery packs, considering the precision and the volatility of the chemistry, that's just not realistic, as we observe today. But, there's a middle ground here. Ah, yes, this pack is made a German battery manufacturer that just so happens to supply one of the largest cinema camera They advertise their and they even have an indicator that tells you when of the original capacity. When that happens, you can send it to them and at a discount. Other cinema brands, take notes. We're not even asking you but the least you can do is not put up roadblocks on purpose. So, then, the safest way is just returning your when you're done with them. But, in an increasingly electrified world, producers of battery powered devices have a responsibility to plan ahead. and to extend the lifespan and figure out what's when they reach the end of their life. On that note, as it turns out, one of the largest battery in North America, RETRIEV Technologies, is just a few hours away from us. So, let us know in the comments if you want us to go check and get subscribed, so you don't miss it. And, don't miss our sponsor, iFixit. iFixit wants to help you keep like when they were new. iFixit has a wide range of for your mobile devices, kits for laptops, cell phones, and even Nintendo switches. You don't need to be an because each kit comes step by step instructions with photos to walk you So, learn a new hobby while saving yourself some time and money by going to iFixit.com/LTT. If you guys enjoyed this video, maybe you'll enjoy our other this should be a legal video, where manufacturers were caught effectively advertising one