I have enjoyed listening to you today. Um I found you to be very intelligent. And very articulate. Um, aren't still little uncertain about how you How you think how you Approach cases. Was shining cases and we'll talk about that a moment. I'm not going to ask you. Nor should I. How would you you would decide a case. And I'm not going to ask you, nor should I have to tell me whether you think particular precedent. Is a good president or not. So, but I'm going to talk to you about the law. But first Um You don't support efforts to de legitimize the United States Supreme Court, do you? Senator, I have nothing but steam for the United States Supreme Court. Or my Hopefully, future colleagues on the court and the work that the court does. Can we agree? That the The calls to pack the court. Ding legitimized the court. Senator. It would not be appropriate for me. In my view to comment on calls to pack the court, as you say, to increase the number to do. Um, any structural changes. Those are policy determinations for Congress. What the consequences of those are policy considerations for Congress. I'm just Looking forward to, um Working with the brilliant people who are there at whatever size Congress. Decides if I'm confirmed. Well, the calls to pack the court Don't legitimize the court, do they? Well, Senator, I think that would be for you to decide. I'm asking your opinion. Respectfully, Senator. I'm not in a position to give my opinion on issues. That our policy issues concerning the court and not something that a judge would Have to consider or should consider And in my view, yeah, but sure you're citizen. Oh, I am And as best I can tell very good one. I don't understand why you You won't weigh in on this issue. Tell me why you won't weigh in on this issue. Senator. I feel so strongly about ensuring that judges remain out of political debates, and this is something that is being debated. It is something that other Nominees just despair. It was asked about the same sort of thing and also declined to give her opinion and I think that was the right way to handle this particular issue. So you think Judge. Barrett was right, Dodge the question. I think that each judge has to make a determination when asked about whether they would like to speak to, uh, issues and I know that I'm not comfortable. Um In part because I'm So committed To making sure that there's confidence in me in terms of public confidence in my ability to, um, stay in my lane. My ability to not Speak to contentious political issues. You have an opinion, though, don't you? Senator. Any opinion that I would have is not, um, something that would ever Come up and it was in my work is a judge, something that I would ever rely on. This is a political issue for Congress. Um, do you have an opinion Judge? Not a strongly held opinion, actually, which you have an opinion. I haven't really thought about it, but I hear the arguments on both sides and I understand it to be a political issue. Not judge. You're you're very intelligent and you're very articulate. And I know you're very well informed. You're telling me you don't have an opinion about back in the United States Supreme Court. Senator. I have opinions about a lot of things. I don't have an opinion, um, that I think it appropriate to share I worked very hard to set aside my opinions when I'm thinking about cases, which is the work of a judge. And so, um, this particular issue is one that is Barry, contentious as you say, one that's in the province of Congress and one that I think it's not appropriate for me to comment on understand that But but I think it would tell us a lot about you. If you would answer the question, I'm all confused. About what your your answer earlier. It's probably more my fault than yours. Do you have an opinion? About whether these efforts to pack the United States Supreme Court Roger Master Court. Do you have an opinion? Senator. I have an opinion. About the effort. It's not an opinion. That I think, um, is appropriate for me to share. And so, therefore, um, I Don't have anything further to add. So you you do have an opinion, but you don't want to share I don't think it's appropriate for me as a nominee to comment on a political matter that is in the province of Congress. Well under siding. To join the United States Supreme Court if you're affirmed We need to make a difference to you. Whether you're one of nine or one of 28. Would it make a difference that impacts the judiciary that involves the judiciary? Senator certainly involves the judiciary. I'm I would be thrilled to be one of, however many Congress thought it appropriate to put on the court, okay? So you'd be okay if it was 28. If that's Congress's determination. Yes, The Congress makes political decisions like that, Okay? Couple of my colleagues ask you about the Supreme Court overturning precedent. Now it doesn't happen every other Thursday. But Islam in its not sure I'm searching for a judge. It's not extraordinary that the Supreme Court overturns pressed is I mean, it happens, African say a lot, but it's it's not once every 50 years correct. You're correct. That it's more frequent than once every 50 years For sure, yes, and so it happens. Yes, um And you talked earlier briefly about the different factors that the court considers yes. And deciding. Give me a couple though he hit that another week for me and just give me a couple Um, whether the decision is egregiously wrong. Whether there's been reliance on the decision that is being revisited. Whether the decision is workable or unworkable, the one that they're looking at whether the facts are new facts have come to light or the facts have Um Hmm. The circumstances are such that there's now a new understanding of the prior facts. And whether the case law in the area has shifted. And in fact, um, those are the factors that the Supreme Court listed three years ago in Janice. Are they not? Those are the factors. I don't have the Janice opinion in front of me, but that those are the factors that the court uses when it determines. Overruled. Thank Senator Senator Bono talked about it. Janice overruled. Aboud. Yes, dealing with with whether, um labor unions can require non members to pay dues. Remember that case? Yes. Um Is a judge the age of the case of factor in whether The Supreme Court will overrule impression. I think age relates to the reliance factor. I think the longer an opinion has been in effect. The court has considered that to be relevant to its determination of reliance, but sometimes the looks. The court looks at not just in terms of reliance, then look at it and from the other side of the age issue, and that is that That may be facts and circumstances and science have changed. Do they not? I believe that is part of the change circumstances, Inspector, So the Supreme Court is more likely. To overturn a case. Which would not be that extraordinary if the president were 49 years old as a Opposed to 4.9 years old. I'm sorry. Can can you repeat the question? I'm just well, You said that the older the cases um One could make an argument that The reliance interests would be great. But you also said, I think I don't mean to put words in your mouth. But the older the cases, um The more facts and circumstances and science could have changed. So that would argue in favor of overruling it because of a change of circumstances that did I get it Might these are all Different circumstances that the court could consider under this. Multi factor test. Okay, but all things being equal, Um, e. I say decisions. 49 years old versus three years old, like Janice. The older decision is more likely to be overturned. You think Special your experience. Oh, I don't. I don't know that I could make that prediction. I'm just saying that, um, one of the factors the reliance factor, um, the age of the opinion, and how long people have been relying on it? Yes, ma'am. Can be relevant to Um, it is one of the factors that the court considers right. Okay. Let me jump gears here. I took some notes. Um You talked earlier about how you decide cases. I'm going to kind of summarize this. Um you said you clear your mind of any bias. You read everything. You read the briefs in the record, and then you apply them all. Um, that's your methodology. You say you're not an activist judge. You said am I right? Yes. You said judges are not politicians. That is true. And judges should stay in their lane. Yes, sir. Tell me again. What you mean must stay in your lane. What I mean is that in our system of government under the Constitution We have a separation of powers, and each branch has their own sphere of responsibility. Um, to say stay in in in your lane is the short hand that I'm using for indicating that judges should not be policymakers. That those Responsibilities are left to the elected branches. And that judges are too um, interpret the law not make the law and I use it to refer to the part of my methodology. That is mindful of the constraints on judicial authority. Okay? Well put So let me ask you We can go to the Constitution. I'd say the bill of rights to make to narrow the discussion. And read about our explicit rights. Religious freedom. R, right. Not to be unreasonably searched or seized. Freedom of speech there right there. That's why they call them explicit. But the court's role we have a bunch of on enumerated rights. Am I correct? The court is determined. There are certain personal rights related to, uh individual autonomy that are implicit. In the concept of ordered liberty, or, um, deeply rooted in our nation's history or tradition, but they're on a numerator. Yes, okay. But these are the numerator, right? Vertical. Sleep. Should they be Dynamic models. People through their elected represent About the only like Additional federal position. Well, Senator The Spring Court has interpreted the 14th amendment to have a substantive component, and I'm not in a position to critique the court in terms of its precedents that is Um, the president of the of the Supreme Court, Right, right. Well, let me ask you this. What is a What is the fundamental right? The court. Has interpreted the 14th amendments due process clause, um to include a substantive component and not just a procedural component, meaning Um The 14th amendment guarantees due process. And the court has interpreted it. To mean. That with respect to certain Rights. Individual, um, rights concerning intimacy, Certain things like the right to contraception. The right, um To, uh, child rearing. Um, there was a case of the Supreme Court that talked about Making decisions for Children in terms of visitation with respect to, um, conflicts with grandparents. Um Marriage. I'm with you. These sorts of rights the court has found are implicit in ordered liberal ordered Liberty as I said, or deeply rooted in our nation's history tradition. The right to Assisted suicide is that one of those Enumerated or on enumerated rights. I believe the court found that it was not Come Which body do you think is better able to make that decision? The Congress Of the federal judiciary. Well, Senator, the UM Supreme Court. As interpreted the Constitution and the Supreme Court. Um Has the Authority under our constitutional system to interpret the law, right and they made the determination That the Constitution includes those On enumerated rights. But here's the thing, Judge Um Maybe a better example. It's very hot Topic today. The right of a transgender woman. To compete in women's sports. Do you think? Congress of the People are against decide that to Congress or the judge can just find it. As a mountain on enumerated right penumbra. Of the Constitution. Well, Senator, that, um The topic that you raised is something that is, as you say, a hot topic today and certainly be litigated. Um, so I'm not in a position to To say more about Whether or not um it's actually one of the under numerator, right? I'm all right. I don't want to ask you how you'd rule. But would you have any problems saying Okay, if that case that is litigated Playing. This is a political question. We'll stop. I'm sure Let's stay in my lane. Congress needs to to decide this case, the people need to decide that through their elected representatives. Would that be appropriate? Well, respectfully, Senator, that is a decision. In other words, you say I'm not asking you to decided, but In every case, the determination about whether or not something is a political question or whether or not the court has or has not. Jurisdiction is, uh, an issue for judges. And so I'm I'm not able to speak to it. Okay? Well, here's the thing about fundamental rights. That's why I ask you about the definition of Um These are on enumerated rights. Now I'm not talking about right to free speech and freedom of religion. Um The court has said repeatedly that there is no test for fundamental on a numerator fundamental right. That determination has not been reduced to a formula. Am I right? Well, they're they've given those standards in the cases in which they have been evaluated some cases. Sometimes the court talks about This fund. These on enumerated fundamental rights have to be deeply rooted in the nation's history and traditions. Sometimes, the court says they change the language. These on enumerated rights. Like the right to assisted suicide. We talked about It's a potential on enumerated right? Ah, the right has to be implicit in the concept of ordered Liberty. But you've read Burger fell. And or Burger fell. I think justice Kennedy wrote that opinion he didn't bite. In fact, he cited with approval. Justice Harlan's dissent in Po Vielman and Justice Harlan said. Look, there's no formula here. Just hard work just as hard and always said, You have to go case by case. Can you understand why Some Americans go. Wait a minute. Our justices. These are on enumerated rights or justice is interpreting the Constitution or they just deciding to write when they get five votes, and it's just the moral conviction. Yes, Senator. I do understand. Okay? Well, when you talk about judicial restraint, Where does the restraint start with the with fundamental right. Let's take the ninth of men. Okay? What's it say? I know you know, because you talked about it earlier. Well, it says that it indicates that there are rights that, um The fact that there are some enumerated rights in the Constitution doesn't mean that Um there aren't others and how how do I We supposed to determine what others There are I think the Supreme Court has not found any others coming from that particular constitutional provisions, could they I can't speak to that senator amaze possible, right? If they get five votes. Right? Well any time the Supreme Court has five votes, then they have a majority for whatever opinion they determined. But do you think that would be a prudent course of action? Stirs to start Creating fundamental rights. Further nights Amendment. On a number aerated now. Without consulting Congress. Senator. I can't speak to a hypothetical about whether or not it would be a prudent course of action for the Supreme Court to Hold em that there were other rights in the Ninth Amendment. That's Well, the reason I'm asking judges, you've talked a lot today about judicial restraint. Um And that's kind of like me and For Children and prosperity. We're all for Children and prosperity and judicial restraint. But the rubber meets the road when you get down over what does that mean? What does that mean? What It's meant for me. Senators what you've seen in my opinions in the way that I have approached. Issues that have been before me in my fidelity to, uh, the restraints that exist in the law in terms of the exercise of judicial authority. That adherence to precedent, for example. Is something that I Do And even in cases is, as you heard me discuss earlier in which they're not binding precedents. I find that the court needs to take into consideration What has previously been determined, Um and not be a policymaker in my decisions, okay? Well, Here's what Here's What's up. Bothering me too strong aboard Sam's majority. Here's what I'm uncertain about. And please don't take this the wrong way. How? How do we know I'm not saying you would do it. But how do we know? That Since I can't seem to flesh out this judicial restraint and the limits of it for you. How do we know that if you get on the court You won't say well. You know, Congress can't get anything done. And they're all these issues that we need to address. And so I think the United States Supreme Court to create all these rights through the Ninth Amendment. What would you say to that? If somebody made that allegation Well, Senator, um I think that I have a record as a judge in terms of having been given responsibility, having looked at cases having decided issues In that my record demonstrates how I handle Cases. I'm not in a position To hypothesize a circumstance in which A case appeared. That raised a question about The recognition of an enumerated right and whether I would say under those circumstances That I couldn't find such a right because that's a hypothetical because I decide cases and controversies that come before me because I'm a nominee, and I can't speak to hypothetical scenarios about how I might rule in the future with respect to Cases. By the time goes fast. Let me ask you one other question. Yes. This, this this business of having on enumerated rights through substantive due process. There's no textual basis for that. The court just started doing Okay? I'm not asking you whether you think it was good or bad because it's clear to me. You're you don't you don't want to share your thoughts on that and I get it. Um, I'd feel better if you would, but I get it. But Don't you think the fact that our founders included away? To amend the constitution. Is the Tet is a testament to the fact that they were saying here, your rights were riding them down. You can all go to the mental rights and read them. And if you want more We put in a way that amendment constitution. I do understand that argument, and there are some people who Argue that the Supreme Court Has determined that the due process clause yes, ma'am includes a substantive component. I understand the critiques of that view. Almost try to get into more time for last when not 20 sh life began In your opinion. Senator, Um I don't No, ma'am, I don't know. I haven't belief. I have, um Personal, religious and otherwise beliefs that have nothing to do with The law in terms of when life begins the do you have a personal belief, though about when life begins, have a religious view? Religious belief that I set aside when I am Ruling on cases Okay. What? When? When does When does equal protection of the laws attach? To a human being. Well, Senator I believe that the Supreme Court um Actually, I actually don't know the answer to that question. I'm sorry. All right. You're familiar with the warrant requirement. I know. Yes. What if Louisiana said We don't want to follow the warrant requirement? With that being legal. Are you positing a statute of Louisiana that were not following or individual lot Gold statue. Um well, Senator, Um I'm thinking about all of the potential. Um Legal arguments that could be made. Um I can't answer the hypothetical about whether or not it would be lawful or an awful Can you think of an instance where A state. Could say We're not going to follow the warrant requirement, right our own warrant requirement. I've never heard of that happening. What if Article one Section five of the Louisiana Constitution is our state unreasonable searches and seizures? Couldn't we say we're not going to follow the federal interpretation? We're going to make it stricter. Under the state constitution. Well, the Senate can also stand. In fact, under the state Constitution. We're going to say a warrant is required in every instance. Don't give me this stuff about playing view and hot pursuit. You serve somebody, You better go Stop and get a warrant. Now. I'm not saying Louisiana would do that. You understand? And I'm not saying they should or shouldn't they can do that? Can't they under their own state constitution? They can Provide more protection than the federal government. How can they get away with that on the supremacy cause Dirt. You gotta go fast. Because Durban's about the cuts. I'm sorry. How can they? How can they get away with providing more protections? People? Yeah, under the supremacy cost. Because It would depend on whether or not it conflicted with federal law. It doesn't conflict. I think if the state provides more protection We call that the adequate and independent state ground doctrine, right? Yes. Okay. All right. I'm over, but only about 22 seconds. So I'm going to land this plane and we'll take off again tomorrow. Thank you.