[ Music ] &gt;&gt; Julie Niederhoff: Our next speaker co-founded that good operations don't of good working environments for your employees. In fact, it's just the opposite. Good jobs and good operations can for an organization to succeed. So please give a warm welcome to Sarah &gt;&gt; Sarah Day Kalloch: Alright. Good afternoon. I am so thrilled to be here at Syracuse. It's my first time here. So I'm going to need to know I am so excited to be here as we of operations management: They have done so much to make that has deep heart and deep impact. Right? Operational excellence changes companies. Operations management changes lives. That's why all of you are here. That's why you're studying in this school, because you want to make a And that's the core of what we We are a non-profit based And our mission is to help companies The other part of our mission of what it means to run a good business. Our work is based on the work of Zeynep Ton, at MIT's Sloan School of Management. She came up with something which is what I'm going to through 20 years of research in What we do at the Institute is we apply this with companies in industries that have large, So think retail, restaurants, hospitality, some manufacturing, some distributed services, Anything where you've got teams going We help those companies apply the good and improve their operating model so that fantastic jobs, and also great So as you can imagine, you hear &quot;the Good Jobs We're definitely talking about better jobs. And traditionally low-wage, front-line jobs' pay Anybody know what the federal minimum Shout it out. Seven-twenty-five; $7.25. Okay? Pay is critical. We've got to pay people more who are But pay is not enough. It's not enough to make a job good, and it's It's not enough to make the Pay alone doesn't make the job a good one. So if all companies just paid workers more they might have to raise They might have to reduce profits, and indeed, when talking about a raise in minimum wage, to lose money, or we're going to have What's magical about operations management between good jobs and a great business. And that's what we try to do Right? I got to get my operations going here. So higher pay requires higher productivity. Higher productivity requires better work. And better work is driven by And better work drives good jobs. So let me tell you all about this. Let me tell you about the good jobs strategy, how all of this comes together Going to start with the origins of the good on the effect of store execution So when she was doing her PhD, she in a research group with 30 retailers. She worked on Borders, that's How many people here have Yes. Not too many people in the back, because which she always likes to say is But this team was working on supply chain. So Borders sold books and you know, Zeynep would and the supply chain had But once they were in there, a whole So she found 18% of customers who asked for help at Borders were experiencing Have any of you experienced a phantom stockout? Do you know what that is? Yes. I can feel the energy in the room. Yes. You all know this, right? You think there's a dress at Banana Republic. It's at the mall that's close by. You go there, and it's not in. Right? So they think it's in. Maybe it's in the store, but you can't find it. The employees can't find it. And this was a huge problem And others -- she was looking These phantom stockouts made in some CPG companies, 60% This is huge. This is bad, right? The supply chain, we just saw all that work to get the items to the store, and This is a massive, massive problem. So Zeynep dug in and she And she identified what she So in some of these stores that had high numbers of the phantom stockouts, So you know, people were quitting these Really high turnover. They were understaffed. They didn't have enough people And they often didn't have time to train and so the folks had low ability. It wasn't because they weren't fantastic. It was because they weren't trained, and they because there was a lot of instability. And with that instability came poor execution. So you all have either worked or been to You now what poor execution looks like, right? In retail it's dirty stores, In restaurants, long lines, poor So all sorts of poor execution starts happening. And when you've got poor execution, to the product and services that they want. And so you've got lower sales and profit. And when you've got lower sales and And what's the biggest, juiciest It's people, right? Wages, hours, jobs. You cut that, it's immediate, You can see it. You've cut costs. You're doing great. But the downstream long-term impact of on your customers, is much harder to measure. And so companies end up in this vicious cycle. They cut people investment and and more understaffing and lower ability. And that leads to worse execution. All of you in operations, you know that So again, Zeynep's research found that there data inaccuracy, omni channel mistakes, You've all experienced this, right? And in the future, from poor And there's also higher costs. Shrink, spoilage. We're talking about environmental When you've got high turnover and bad jobs, you in restaurants and grocery stores. Food that again already traveled around the Returns, low labor productivity, overtime. Lots of higher costs that really are expensive So why is execution so poor? What has Zeynep's research and We've noticed this complexity/ability gap. So over time, companies add a lot of complexity. They add products, they add services, They love to add. Companies never take away. They never simplify. They never stop doing the stupid stuff, right? So complexity goes up. And at the same time, their investment in people usually doesn't go up And sometimes not at all. And sometimes it goes down. So employees' ability to cope with that level That complexity is often driven So what does that mean? Let's think about a retailer. How many of you have worked Anybody? Awesome. So I think you will understand Let's think about a retailer in apparel, right? So it's the weekend. That's your peak time. You're going to sell a lot Well, your biggest shipment And so you've got a really short Really hard to do that well. But, you know what? Those shorts? They weren't selling. So marketing has decided to They sent out an email Friday. Your manager didn't have So you have all these people You don't have enough shorts. Is this sounding familiar to anybody? Anybody remember the Starbucks Anybody have the Unicorn Frappuccino? Probably not. It wasn't around that long, because Beautiful product, sparkly, But they didn't give the stores enough And you know, it was a huge Long lines, lots of challenges. So teams in the store can do But a lot of the work is dictated by the supply chain, by when And so a lot of that complexity of those different departments They're optimizing for their And they're saying downstream, But that's really hard, and for workers, for stores, for managers. At the same time, there's low people investment. And there's a mental model that labor's just a cost to be minimized. The market pay is the right pay And lean and mean is efficient. And that wonderful [inaudible] of TPS Let's cut, let's cut, let's cut. And eventually you're not cutting -- you You're cutting into things So this complexity/ability gap is something And what they don't really understand, and what we help companies understand It's far, far, far less competitive A lot of the industries where we of doing business, but is very expensive. So first there are direct and There is a direct cost to recruit, to ramp people up to base productivity. We found with some of the companies we worked So there's a direct cost of turnover. And the turnover we're talking We work with convenience Can you imagine the team that is Very unstable. That instability leads to indirect that we talked a little bit Sales, revenue, and lots of The companies that we work with We'll look at their stores with the with the highest turnover, and we'll and customer service metrics And we almost always find that those stores with lower turnover have better So this was a convenience store. Their stores with higher This is a retail store, national their stores with lower turnover have So their customers are much happier. So turnover, really expensive, directly But then there's system costs. And this is something for all of you When you have high turnover, it's that has a high-expectations environment, where everyone is problem-solving, Right? When you've got people turning you end up in a low-trust environment with We're wasting the amazingness of humans when we and we don't trust them, and we But that's what happens. And this is very hard to measure. And it makes you far less competitive, far less able to sustain yourself long-term. But you can look pretty good Companies can still grow profits by adding more. Adding to that complexity, right? They can add units and products and services. Or they can cut labor, adding to Many of the companies come to us and they cannot get out, and they cannot This is a quote from one of Financial pressure leads to everyone, and that's not a strategy. But the great news in Zeynep's that the vicious cycle is not inevitable. So her first book, The Good Jobs I was going to say a beach If you're looking for an apple picking, It's both excellent in terms of operations that tells the story of excellent companies So Zeynep chose to focus on If you're selling, you know, maybe Tiffany's But what if you're in the gas What if you are in very low-cost So she looked at companies that QuikTrip. Anybody seen to a QuikTrip? Awesome. They are a gas station in the South, Midwest, moving West as well. Their frontline turnover is way In 2019, their full-time turnover was 20%. The industry average for full-time was 80%. It's a significant difference. Part-time, their turnover was Look at their frontline tenure. Their store managers have First assistants, 9 years. Their part-timers have been When you think -- I was talking about 200% They have far lower turnover. Costco. Anybody here a Costco member? Got to love Costco. Well, their employees love Their turnover is 17% in aggregate, but 6% for When you go there, you can look at their the number of years they'e Sixty percent have been there 33% have been there for more that 10 years. What does that mean? That means they know what the bakery And you really want somebody there who high-volume retail environment, and you So companies that have really low prices and They keep people; and people want to stay. How do they do it? First, they invest a lot more in people So pay is fundamental. Like I said, 7.25 is the minimum wage federally. I don't know what it is in New York state. Maybe 15? Probably higher. The cost of living here is higher. But again, the cost of living is much But they all believe, their mental model is that and they're going to do what it takes So you can read, these are the founders of Paying people more than they expect to success even though it's I was and still am shocked that So they all pay more. Because they know that the absence of So this is our employee pyramid. It's based on Maslow's hierarchy of need. And so what do employees need? First they need their basic needs met. And that's what's at the bottom here. They've got to have pay and benefits that They've got to have schedules And this is especially hared in Full-time workers in retail we sort of help them trace the of the schedules they give their team members. If you're full-time, one week you might the next week 35, the next week 25. Your hours are all over the place, It's really hard to create a budget Clear paths, clear advancement to higher Safety being really important for workers. So you've got to meet those basic needs. You've also got to meet some but those basic needs really drive turnover. The absence of sufficient pay also hurts to have a life -- to have a life, frankly. It's really stressful when So we've got a vicious cycle Sometimes their workers when they're up in a vicious cycle of poverty. And it looks like low pay. And then you can't meet your obligations. You can't pay rent on time. You can't pay food on time. Your car breaks down and you That's a predicament that A significant number of Americans When you're under that kind of stress, of decisions, your health suffers. So there's a lot of scholarship out there on people's mental and physical health. When you're under that kind of You're not as productive. You might not even be able to get to work, Professor Carrie Leana at on the impact of financial stress on workers. So financial stress makes which means that their patients Financial stress makes truck drivers which is bad for their health, bad for the So then you're not doing well at work, and you are in a vicious cycle of And this is a huge problem and for our community, our country, right? We need people to have good jobs But that said, pay is incredibly important, but And that's where the good That's where operations management comes in. So the good jobs strategy in people, outsized investment in people. You've got to do that to make sure you can that can help you execute But then you've got to make great so that you can drive the productivity you So the good jobs strategy has four operational And it drives a better employee experience, It drives productivity, so you have And then it drives a better customer experience, You can read what the four choices are. Focus and simplify, standardize and All of these are pretty foundational So focus and simplify, you've got sort Listening to Toyota today -- Toyota's well-known but standardized work plus that to identify problems and drive quality. Cross-training promotes flexibility. And then there's operate with slack. Queueing theory, newsvendor, anybody? You gotten to that yet? Just wait. It's fun. Alright. Woo! Those tell us that in you know, in you don't want to be operating at 100% capacity and it's going to be bad for your So the four operational choices, But what the good jobs strategy It has them really work in combination And two, it puts people at the center, that your teams are really strong, to be executing all this great So that's how we close this gap. Complexity is closed by focusing By standardizing work. And then that ability to deal with complexity, empowerment, cross-training, So we've got Toyota here today. You'll see there's a lot You've seen the Toyota house. Smart operations design requires You've got to have both, right? The Toyota production system, you'll see if a company has high employee The foundation of that house is stability and one of those M's is manpower, You've got to have stable people who are The good jobs strategy is a So typical companies, they financial thinking, let's optimize locally. People are cost. Market pay is the right pay. Command and control. Operations can get us out of that to more system, customer-centric thinking. And that's what the good jobs strategy does. And that's what we try to help companies do So I wanted to give a couple of examples at companies that are in retail, that are So I'm going to go deep on Sam's Club and Sam's Club. Is there a Sam's Club around here? Don't know. Okay, awesome. Used to be. Well, used to be because in 2018, were having a tough time, and They might have closed the one around here. And they knew that they needed to to turn around their company. So they needed to be -- they wanted and they wanted to do that by returning to their great customer experience, and also finding through omni channel convenience. Costco, you can't do curbside pickup there. They wanted to be a convenience They're struggling. They need to have better customer service, So they've got to have better They've got to have better customer NPS. They've got to have all sorts of big changes and that can really do the work, and can really, So what did they do? The first thing they did is they We've got too many products. We've got too many things going on. How can we simplify the work that happens for our members who pay to come shop with us? So the first thing they did is they This is a big, significant change, right? And that involves lots of departments. That involves merchandising. That involves supply chain. That involves a lot of decision-makers. And then they said, okay, we're going to have to simplify the way that we stock. So they had put too many shelves you know, stocking 10-pound They went back to a more palletized stocking. Right? And this took some This took a lot of operations knowhow to that non-value [inaudible] work in front of customers more often? Fewer items, simplified stocking, We have an overnight shift where All they do is stock all night. If we simplify all that, can we And the answer was yes. But let's go back to the good jobs strategy. What else would have to be true Well, we are going to need block schedules so in a team, cross-trained, ready to go, So they introduced block schedules, which made and predictability for their teams. They also wanted more full-time workers, who they could depend on, because they were They did cross-training, and they took out a lot of non-value at work. One of the Sam's executives told us, you you know, putting some kind of supply And they said, why are you doing that? And they said, oh we need this. We need this. And they said, why? And they said, well we've And then they said, do you ever go back or report it out to anyone ever again? And they said no. And there were so many of those tasks working with their frontline of them, and simplified the work. Then they looked at IT investments. They didn't start with IT investments. They didn't start with AI. They didn't start with that. They said what can we eliminate, And then how can we use technology and support our associates And they made some really great member- They had a ton of other stuff, They also needed to change If you now all of a sudden and you have a much tighter stocking window, Your trucks have to come -- your everything to be tighter, so big investment there. They could have done all of that and not to expect our teams to continue to do what But they knew that they could not and get to operational excellence They were paying, you know, They also had tens of thousands of workers, because all of these operational The productivity hadn't hit yet. So they said, where do we Who do our members talk to the most? Who is going to have all of these changes sort Who talks to members the most? The butcher, the cake decorator, those Let's invest heavily in them. We need them. Those are the member relationships And then who's going to have Those team leads, right? Of course the manager and the assistant manager, the head of electronics, they're going We want them to stay, and we want those jobs to start to reduce turnover by I'm going to have a job that's great. They invested 5 to $7 an hour in those jobs. So those folks went from making This was in about 2019. That was life-changing for people, both of that raise, but also for the executives. When we talked to the executives, Sam's and Walmart for 30 to announce those raises was one Because they knew that they were that's why they do the work that they do. So they started with those really outsized and they've continued to They got to a facility start rate of 15 in 2021. Two weeks ago, they raised it to 16, and which will get you to a higher wage faster. So Sam's has been on this journey, You can read about it in Zeynep's The Case For Good Jobs, which The turnover decreased 25%. Their productivity increased, 16% And they told us that all of -- these Fantastic operations professionals. And they had done a lot of work for a And it would inch up 1%, 1%. Very incremental. All of these changes together at once they got a 16% increase in the And most importantly, their customer Net increase in NPS score of 7%. Double digit same-store sales Doug McMillon, who's the CEO of Walmart total, to be the chief merchant at Sam's, and since when Sam's has had this much momentum. It was because they had fantastic operations And because they were investing of this come together as a system. We've seen similar results at Mud in the Pacific Northwest; at Quest Diagnostics, one improvement to call out there, And because they had people staying longer, And their team members identified in run rate savings from frontline ideas. When you have teams that are committed to you, they're going to save you money, and they're We've also seen great impact So Moe's Original Barbecue, two barbecue They invested in people and improved their And then also sort of unleashed all this Sales went up 20%, but really critically They're doing weddings, they're doing big to go and do these on the weekend, they're stable, and they're part of a team. So this all sounds great, right? Why isn't everybody doing Why isn't everybody doing TPS, right? We know it works. But it requires an integrated system And whether you're talking to large public of employees or if you're talking to small like an awful lot of money, We've had a CFO write on the back if we raise wages $2, that's Where are we going to make that up? Right? And so, there are obstacles to adopting because of that expense and because of So four things we often hear. One, our business model isn't going to But if you've got great operations One we hear that really breaks my heart You know, I think Toyota also talks We assume that all people are good and it's because the system's We've had business leaders say, like, well No, your system isn't worth $15 an hour, right? Our financial analysis shows I know a lot of you are also in finance. I know a lot of you are spending You can make a spreadsheet Think about the long-term impact of You may not see the ROI immediately, and you've got to look deep into operations. Operations will tell you the story And then for a lot of companies, It's not a quick fix. It's not an easy button. It takes time, but it also leads Zeynep and one of her colleagues at MIT of years ago. And they found that companies can And we know that. They also found that companies Maybe not forever, but certainly We need to make the choice to offer and we need to make the choice to And that is my call to action for all of you. We need to make operations You and what you do in your job and in your of tens, hundreds, thousands, millions and supply chain choices you make. Operations management is a force for good, as the sort of young leaders Thank you. &gt;&gt; Speaker 1: Okay, any questions? Yes? &gt;&gt; Speaker 2: Thank you, Sarah. This is a very interesting. So I wonder if you can comment on the impact because there is a lot of fear among human automation's going to take jobs away from them. Actually, I was looking at dock workers' strike. Actually one of the requests from the So can you comment on that? Thank you. &gt;&gt; Sarah Day Kalloch: Yes. So first of all, I would say we work again, in where AI machine learning may There are robot servers, but to be served by a robot all the time. That said, if automation can reduce dumb, that humans shouldn't do, let's do that, right? Let's make sure that the work we One. Two, the robots haven't taken over yet. They're not going to walk in and We have something to say about And so again, I think this is such a -- and I think there's a lot of, Ten years ago, we thought there We thought it would all be automated. And now we can't get enough because people stopped going into that field. So I would say A, it's not going to happen parts of this are really good, because we Let's just think really creatively about It's not about replacing people. &gt;&gt; Speaker 3: I'll add to that. I think too, if you apply automation, the bottleneck in the process, and you they could actually almost generate a need for additional workers in And so I think sometimes the -- in this like they're kind of missing that aspect of it. They don't want automation? Well, automation some places could &gt;&gt; Sarah Day Kalloch: Just one more thing. I think in the past we've only measured We've got to talk about quality of people have two jobs and three jobs. So on some levels, we've got too many jobs, because too many people can't support So we can get people a better job that pays of two, or one job instead of three. That's a win. So I think we just really have to &gt;&gt; Speaker 3: Sure. &gt;&gt; Speaker 4: Do you work regulatory at all? And I understand you work with companies of it needs to come from the regulators or data center [inaudible] Companies are doing the minimum they so do you work with regulators at all? &gt;&gt; Sarah Day Kalloch: We don't. We're really small and so you know, direct work with companies. That's our expertise. That said, we want this research Again, you know, this points to if you raise Let's drive better operations, right? So I think it can be used to make a lot I think to get more companies again, in that good jobs virtuous And I think where the carrot is you can and you need more sticks So a little bit of both. Are any public policy folks here? Anybody in the public policy school? Well, make friends with public &gt;&gt; Speaker 5: Hello. I'm fascinated by this institute's I wanted to ask you, when you work with It seems to me that this And yet, some of the -- for so how do you help them see the upside that view than just maybe a quarter, right? &gt;&gt; Sarah Day Kalloch: Yes. This is a great question. So a lot of folks again are talking about the There's probably never going to be a as one on, say, marketing, right? So if you're in marketing, you know if you it will drive this amount The science is there. It's pretty well-proven. You kind of know what that's going to look like. Saying we want to raise wages $5 an hour. There's no spreadsheet that's going So we need data. We need all of that, but first, we around why this is important for your business. So what we do is, we help companies What are your growth aspirations? What are your customer aspirations? What are the biggest gaps you have between where And then we try to tie those So we really try to build it into who they what the ambition for the company is, and try to help them really deeply that unless they're driving better jobs. So we're working with one convenience store And they don't have a leadership bench. You can't open new stores without a manager. Right? And so you've got to think if you want to get to that growth. So it's a bit of an iterative Socratic Let's look at what some possible Let's get into the stores, Let's talk to people and understand what Let's go back. Let's sort of reinforce. But -- let's bring data in. But there's not a formula for this. It's definitely a strategic process. Great question. If anyone knows how to do it, &gt;&gt; Speaker 6: Hey. Thank you for your presentation. I still have a question about do you think your countries that are having, like, a lack Because I know, like, labor, work, and So. &gt;&gt; Sarah Day Kalloch: Yes. That's a great question. So we have started our work We have done some work in Europe, which has much And so on some levels it's easier when you have stronger labor standards. We're starting to do work in other parts of the and little to no labor standards. So I'm going to get back to you on that. But I think, again, in those And you can make choices around that if you want to run a different But I imagine it's going to be more challenging. So again, if you have any thoughts, come [ Music ]