This video is brought to you in part by ME. Because I made this :) Welcome to A Good Enough Summary of Kingdom You might be here because you just can't maybe it's the year 2082 and you're looking Hi kids, it's me, your grand-pep-pep If you're confused and lost, well, I mean, my other video first covering everything up Alright then let's do this. EUUEGHGH. KINGDOM HEARTS 3 Last we saw Sora, he was getting told by Yen the Power of Waking, which will allow him him and unjelly his jam once and for all. Kairi's heart back in "Kingdom Hearts have to poke his soft underbelly and turn Yen Sid gives everybody who matters new clothing "Oh, also - be on the lookout for keyblade seven," he says. Sora, Donald, and Goofy fly through a bunch once again do not matter in the slightest Power of Waking. Jack Sparrow is actually Toy Story is obsessed with this hot new video Verum Rex - wait, is he obsessed with it because make Olaf SWOLE Also Maleficent and Pete are back and they're Along the way we're reintroduced to the of the members are - disappointingly they're to the 'Norts we saw in Dream Drop Distance and Demyx. But now they all have yellow eyes, Also joining the gang is Vanitas from "Birth Replica Riku from "Chain of Memories." Riku we met in Castle Oblivion and we know out inside of the original Riku like a teenager There's also a hand-wavy explanation as Old Man Xehanort instead of Terranort but BACK TOO. AND THERE'S EVEN ANOTHER HOODED THAN THIRTEEN?!? THERE'S TOO MANY HOODED Some of the other former members of Organization They hang out back at Ansem the Wise's place magazines. They text Sora old memes sometimes. like three games ago: that Sora has all these Sora is like, "I don't know if any of WE GOTTA HELP THEM OUT!" He sets out to free Roxas (because ew girls one: Roxas doesn't have a body anymore. Roxas's heart. Wait, hold up, since when point was that they're a shell without a left in me, it's fine. Hrungus hooted this Roxas's friends show up and are like, "Hey only friends with him inside a computer!" be a copy of his heart in the computer!" Beep boop sad toot. Meanwhile Riku and Mickey are so bad at rescuing is actually fine because I mean she's rocking like, "I was trapped here for ten years what took you so long?" and Riku's like, Sora pops out of a portal and helps his boyfriend the Gayblade(tm). They unlock Aqua's face so They zip over to Castle Oblivion and Aqua they find sleepy Ventus right where she left the "Power of Waking" but Vanitas pops and she's like, "Oh no!" Suddenly Sora you know, they had an opportunity to make what, now is fine, this'll do. Ventus's heart poots out of Sora and into of Vanitas and goes, "Remember me?" and that's what I said in Birth By Sleep when "Ow! Did you toot?" Elsewhere, Vexen grabs Demyx and is like, goth, let's bounce." "What do you mean get 'Norted-" "Uhh...I'm a double go," and on their way out they steal an Oh and Ansem the Wise is totally fine and wandering anything so don't worry about him. Back at Yen Sid's place the Seven Guardians Mickey, Aqua, and Ventus are joined by Kairi minutes in Merlin's Moon Bounce so they're Yen Sid goes, "Son of a Disney, is this to fight Xehanort?" "Wait mister Yen Sid," says Goofy, "If then that'll summon the kh-blade right?" "Yes, what's your point???" "So if we don't fight them, then Xehanort "Wau, Goofy, you're as smart as you are just will use the Seven Princesses of Heart "Turnips!" cries Sora. "I won't stand and Snow White, and-" "No, actually we're done with those princesses. "But, what happened to-" "IT'S ALL ABOUT TANGLED AND FROZEN. And OUR SHAREHOLDERS AND FIGHT THAT XEHANORT." So the seven guardians of light (and Donald Graveyard. They battle against a trillion a choo choo train. But then Terranort shows wakes up dead in The Final World and puts an Escher painting and high-fiving himself He brings everyone back to life and they fight But this time they summon the power of Union ghost of this guy without pointy anime hair See? I called it. Yen Sid, tired of everyone's incompetence, the heartless. "HOSES BOSES I'M DOING games and years upon years of waiting, we each other. And it's all tense and quiet "lol nope [POONF] here's a maze." Sora works his way through Xehanort's Last out some Organization members. He helps turn kills Dark Riku while Riku watches (and Sora member is revealed to be Xion and she's was able to log in to his computer after finding Roxas's digi-heart into the replica body "Wait nope I got my heart back from Sora like, "When did that happen-ohHhh!!" [toot] All the while, each fight is bringing Xehanort the first time ever, is about to DO A THING how convenient. Maybe next time, Kairi. Maybe Sora is like, "Heck, I'm not gonna fight my sword," [squeaky toy noises] but Xehanort okay sure, threaten someone I don't even Islands?" "Umm...I think I know what Riku is now murdered," and he kills Kairi. "Wait I think I remember who she is now Norts, allowing Xehanort to summon the kh-blade. "Oh yeah that was the thing I wasn't supposed "Now I'll summon Kingdom Hearts and make "Duck noises," says Donald. "Fyuck," says Goofy. Or at least, HE SHOULD Mickey, realizing he should probably do something Sora aside. "Hey so it turns out that most of the Organization time which is why they were back even though the portal that let's them do that!" "That makes every amount of sense thank "Oh noooo is that a wave of heartless I "Stopza." So they dive into the portal that is Xehanort to the Sky, and prepare for their final, ultimate, anime showdown. Sora believes in himself, Xehanort turns into to select the right....DAMMIT! Well, at least At last Xehanort is defeated. "Durn grummit all like, 'Oooh Xehanort you're so cool.'" Everyone gasps with astonishment because it's Yeah this is one detail I probably should've in "Birth By Sleep" his little soul particles quietly hanging out inside of Xehanort goes, "Heck, I guess you're right. and Xehanort hold hands and fly off into space okay cool this is super underwhelming. Sora back to normal and everyone's like, "Hooray!" Lea is chilling with Roxas and Xion, Aqua's whom have aged in ten years okay), and Sora out like the pit of a paopu fruit, I can't And Riku goes, "You do remember Kairi died, back I'll be lost forever!!" "Where in my 'Dramatic Endings for Dinguses' So Sora brings Kairi back to life and fades And just then Namine walks over and starts Meanwhile Pete and Maleficent actually find whole time and it turns out to be the Master one right there mmhmm. A hooded figure arrives They're like, "Sup Luxu, the other apprentice you were right here in the lineup yep that's future? Also we're missing Snake girl or off their hood and reveals themselves to be... Xigbar? And are Luxu. Uhhhhh...huh. Xigbar, or, Luxu is like, "Whoops looks the villain now HORNGUS HENS THE RIDE NEVER And then Sora wakes up in Tokyo and the guy the fictional game Rex was obsessed with, And that's it for Kingdom Hearts 3. Or is place in an alternate-timeline dreamscape to back that up?? I dunno there's a link ME MAD THAT IT'S PLAUSIBLE. You can also to me while I work on this video that you're years also look I got stickers now point of