Transcriber: Linda Anderson Good afternoon. I am so excited to be here. I actually film all my shows here at the Orange County So, innovation is a brain function. It is dependent on So, did you know obviously, your brain how you think, how you feel, how you act, At the Amen Clinics, we have looked at over 63,000 brain scans and it is very clear to me personality, character, and innovation. And when you brain works right, you work right. And when your brain is troubled, you are much more likely So what you see on the screen SPECT is the study It is a very sophisticated that looks at blood flow It looks at how your brain works. And it basically shows us three things: areas of the brain and areas of the brain So good activity, too little, or too much. And then our job becomes balancing it. The image on your left is a healthy scan. It shows full, even, symmetrical activity. The color doesn't mean The image on the right Alcohol is directly toxic I know many of you believe you have to have because it's good for your heart. It is not good for your brain. With a healthy brain, you're happier, healthier, you're more creative, more innovative. When your brain is not healthy, you had a brain injury, you live in a toxic environment, you're sadder, sicker, You're more rigid, and you're inflexible, which is the opposite of innovation. I've said this tens of thousands of times, Your brain is the most complicated There is nothing as complex It is estimated we have And each nerve cell is connected not in a one-to-one connection, but up to 10,000 individual Which means you have than there are stars in the Universe. Information in your brain Unless, of course, you're drunk. And even though your brain it uses 20 to 30% So, of the breakfast you had this morning, almost a third of it goes to feed Your brain is the most expensive On average, you lose And what we've discovered is you can accelerate the aging or you can decelerate it. How exciting is that? The health of your brain or it accelerates it. So what are the things Brain injury should be obvious. I just finished the largest NFL study, brain imaging study The NFL is no longer lying They're taking it much more seriously. Do not let your kids play tackle football, Come on, the brain is very soft, And your skull is really hard, and it has many sharp, bony ridges. You have to protect it. Drugs and alcohol should be obvious, but what our country is that obesity damages brain function. There are now ten studies. We just published a study that says as your weight goes up, the actual physical size and function Whoa. That should scare the fat off anyone. (Laughter) I read that study, the first one I dropped 25 pounds. I was serious, when it comes You do not want a smaller brain. (Laughter) Smoking constricts Like it prematurely ages your skin, High blood pressure, the blood flow to your brain goes down. So you need to know your blood pressure and if it's high, take it seriously. Diabetes, standard American diet, lack of exercise, and something I call the thoughts that come into your mind They are the seeds So if this is true, it is, what are the things you can do Positive social connections. Unbelievable, the people determine your longevity. Isn't that interesting? If you spend time with people who have healthy health habits, you pick those up, If you spend time with people you die early. Become very serious New learning, so TED is perfect for this. Whenever you learn something new, When you stop learning, your brain Diet is absolutely essential. You are consuming the nutrients or the toxins that hurt you. The SAD diet, the Standard American Diet, is not only associated with heart disease, It's associated with depression, attentional problems, Food is medicine, or it is poison. Sleep, again it's absolutely essential. Because you know, in 1900, we got, In 2011, we get six hours Less than seven hours of sleep, you get Your brain cannot go through in such a short period of human history, without there being And as sleep goes down, weight goes up, because your cravings get out of control. So, being physically healthy is important. But having anxiety is important. Did you know there are and the children who were the &quot;Don't worry, because they didn't take I hope I give you a little anxiety. You know, I'm a psychiatrist by training. I was teaching people to chill out, is I need to motivate them a little bit so that the double cheeseburgers Meditation fooled us. What we thought, you know, Absolutely not like that at all. When people meditate, which is the most human, You want the best antidepressant? It's not Prozac, it's gratitude. You write down three things Within three weeks you'll notice a significant difference ANT-killing means don't believe You go, &quot;OK, Dr. Amen, you've been Single most important thing Don't believe every stupid Have this little question, So when you feel like your husband Because when you question your thoughts, Here are examples One with Alzheimer's disease. One that is overweight, which is a disaster for brain function. And a healthy scan. Which brain do you want? I know which brain I want. Here are five ways brain imaging The first thing, (Laughter) So, I started doing scans in 1991. I was 37 years old, And I looked at it, and I went, &quot;Yuck, And I've actually never drank. I got drunk when I was 16, I went, &quot;This is not for me.&quot; Never smoked, never did drugs. I'm like, &quot;Why does my brain look so bad?&quot; But at the time, I had I only slept four or five hours a night because I was driven. I was drinking diet soda And I carried more weight, was under chronic stress, and it showed. And so, since I saw my scan, at 52, I scanned myself again, My brain looks better. And you know, you can do that. That's the cool thing about the brain. You've probably heard But if you make good decisions today, we found this out with our NFL study, that you can start to improve It's like, how exciting is that? And, with a better brain, from your body to your money, to the level of innovation. The second thing is, since brain imaging, I would never let my kids When does the brain finish developing? Twenty-five. Your brain, and in males, some people think it's more like 28. So the idea that you are an adult at 18, from the neuroscience perspective, And the insurance companies know that. When do your insurance rates Why? Because you're And the decisions you make So do not let your kids You'll take environmental toxins This is one of the firefighters And you see this overall low activity. Those holes? He doesn't have What he has is You'll take your weight And you'll think about the early detection Alzheimer's disease is expected We cannot afford this. And how you prevent Alzheimer's disease? Is you prevent all the illnesses like heart disease, cancer, diabetes, depression, and high blood pressure. So, how to create a brain-smart This is my goal. And we see individuals and families but we're very interested in schools, in churches, businesses, and communities. And, I love this. Andy came to see me about four months ago. First time, about ten years ago, when he was 53, and his brain And I got him to buy And, this is what his brain Isn't that cool? And I want to talk So, I was working on my new show. And while I was working And my wife said she'd drop Chloe off, our seven-year-old, at children's church, And, it's at a very large church nearby, And as I walked into church, I passed 500 donuts for sale. And I was just irritated. And then I walked by bacon And I'm furious. And right before I go into the sanctuary, they're cooking hundreds of hot dogs for something after church. And as I sat down in the sanctuary, about the ice cream festival And, I'm nearly psychotic at this point. (Laughter) And when my wife found me, which she hates. And she gave me that look that said, &quot;Why the hell are you (Laughter) And I showed her what I was writing: &quot;Go to church, get donuts, sausage, bacon, hot dogs, ice cream. They have no idea. They're sending people to heaven early!&quot; (Laughter) It's like, not the plan. (Laughter) And I have no idea what the minister I just sat there, praying that God would use me Because this isn't the plan. No lie, two weeks later, Rick Warren calls me. He said, &quot;Dr. Amen, called Decade of Destiny I want to get the congregation Will you help me?&quot; I'm like, &quot;Oh my God, (Laughter) Often in my life I don't feel And so we have put together a program called The Daniel Plan: for the 30,000 members at Saddleback. And we give them for the research part of the program. We now have nearly 15,000 people Saddleback, as we developed is connected Next year, after we've beta tested I couldn't be more excited about this. And we deliver the content Why? Because people get well in groups. They get well as families, And after three months, the church has already lost People report improved energy, reductions in asthma, stress, and many medications. We have our own Daniel Plan menu, I am still trying to get them You might pray for me. (Laughter) I couldn't be more excited to be part of what has the potential from the church up. But you know, it also needs The food they serve and research suggests that it actually increases There's three studies now that said, &quot;put kids on elimination diet,&quot; which basically means eliminate And within three months, 73% of them show greater than a 50% reduction This isn't hard. We need to change our society, though. From businesses up, from hospitals up. I went and visited my aunt I said, &quot;I have to get you out of here, (Laughter) Brain health and innovation Please help me create Thank you. (Applause)