What is Jiang Hu? Jiang Hu is an unbelievable world Jiang Hu members are not free to do as they please In the past century, the Sun-Moon Sect has amassed great power Its current leader, Ren Wo Xing is a great and terrible figure Amongst the righteous sects, Songshan Taishan Hengshan Huashan and Hengshan To battle against the evil sect they formed the Five Sword Alliance and are the pillars of the righteous way For a hundred years, they have battled relentlessly against the evil sect Their feud deepened It's the same as with the other villages They are all dead Everyone, be careful when examining the bodies There might be poison What a cruel evil sect What cruel methods Amitabha Brothers, since we've left, all three villages we've encountered no one survived The Demon Cult is vicious and spare no one Due to our five sects righteous cooperation, the devils' ends are near Everyone, this time we attack Black Woods Cliff we have to destroy it We wipe them out all at once and avenge all the people's death Five Sects will win, evil will fall Destroy demons, wipe out all evil Brother Zuo, from what I see, these villagers died because of the plague, not because of... Madam Yue What do you mean by saying that? That I can't tell right from wrong? Or do you sympathize for evil that you speak up for them? Those demons up on Black Woods Cliff are all without feelings They're used to killing We, Five Sword Sects, came all the way from the East to the West determined to eliminate them all We can't depend on being optimistic nor let anyone dishonor the name of the Five Sword Sects Alliance Brother Zuo, please calm down On this trip to destroy Black Woods Cliff, Huashan Sect is determined to fight to the death We will not spare the Demon Cult How can we be sympathetic towards them? My junior is merely speaking without thought and offended you I, Yue Buqun, apologize I hope Brother Zuo will forgive her Let's go I did not say anything wrong Why did you have to apologize? Junior Why didn't you look at the situation? We have to look at the bigger picture first Bigger picture? How is this related to the bigger picture? In such a situation, we put the blame on the Demon Cult How can we call ourselves righteous? How are we any different from them? Senior, in my heart you're the gentleman out of all gentlemen Tell me does the so-called &quot;bigger picture&quot; mean that you can mix up right from wrong and black from white? Junior This time we Five Sects have united to eliminate evil It's the right time, the right choice Whether it's a plague or not is just a small matter Between friends, we have to understand each other a bit But with the evil people we can't expect to talk about right and wrong Isn't that akin to helping the evil? And also, it relates to the selecting of the Alliance Chief held once every 10 years Though it's called a selection, it's just a means to see who has the better martial arts and who has the most number of disciples The situation is not going to change The situation is justice Right now Zuo Lengchan has all the power Why are you fighting him? Then according to you we just do as we're told and that's justice? Back when the five sects formed an alliance, Huashan had the most powerful swordsmanship But that year, there was an internal conflict between Huashan sword and qi users An all out battle took place at Yumen Pass, killing thirty something martial artists The Sword-using faction disappeared But our Qi faction was also injured Due to that, the last Chief selection was taken by Songshan Sect Now, we can only wait patiently and restore Huashan Sect's honor As for justice, I promise you when the situation is back in our favor I will return justice back to Jiang Hu But right now, you can only follow one word What word? Patience. Impatience due to small matters will ruin bigger matters Dongfang Bubai greets Sect Leader Our spy sent an urgent letter reporting that The Five Sword Alliance has come to attack Black Woods Cliff They're at the bottom of the cliff The leaders from each sect are all present What should I do? Sect Leader, please give orders Getting up Black Woods Cliff is as hard as getting to heaven Those nobodies won't be able to find the way up and even if they do they are just looking for death Brother Dongfang don't have to worry Business in the sect has been left up to you to decide You just have to tell the four: Sky, Earth, Wind, Thunder to guard the entrances to the cliff well But these people who called themselves righteous dare to gather here If we just ignore them, and people of Jiang Hu hear about it, then wouldn't we a laughingstock? I've already decided Stop dangling around I've isolated myself to practice Stop bothering me. Leave! This old fox He's suddenly isolated himself three months ago and left the sect business for me, Xiang Wentian, and Qu Yang to handle Looking at today situation it doesn't seem like he's practicing any skills but more like to recover from a sickness Brother Dong Fang Are you okay? Accidently fell You must be careful You're here to bring food for Sect Leader? Yes I have not seen him for three months I don't know what else I can do for him other than make food Except every time he eats very little of the food I made Sometimes he would not even touch it I wonder what kind of martial arts it is for him to neglect his food If this keeps up, how will he be able to maintain his health? Since it's already started, I can't stop it now I've spread rumors and lured the Five Sword Sects here There's no way you, Ren Woxing, can still hide I just have to use your woman and child to play a different move You don't have to worry, Madam Sect Leader's inner energy is unimaginable and his health is as strong as a tiger If we're talking about worrying then I'm worry for these food here Madam's cooking skills is even better than the chefs in the palace If these are not eaten then it'd be a waste of food No wonder everyone says you really know how to flatter women How am I as good as you said? Everyday, I just make regular dishes and a few snacks Madam, you're too modest When I took Ying Ying out to play before, she kept asking for your cake These few days, Five Sword Sects been gathering at the bottom of Black Woods Cliff I didn't get a chance to visit Ying Ying Is she still good? She caught a bit of a cold but it's not that bad Though she's always calling for her Dad and Uncle Dongfang to play with her Sect Leader is in isolation I'm afraid no one can play with the little princess Luckily, Uncle Dongfang am free today to play with her I can go up the mountains to pick fruits with her I heard from Master Xiang that Five Sword Sects have been rowdy these days It is of no concern, right? These so called people of the righteous sects talk bigger than they can bite Nothing big will come out of it. It is of no concern Madam, take this subordinate to see Ying Ying Madam, young Miss has been kidnapped! What?! What happened?! When I was serving medicine to the Miss, three masked men broke through the window and kidnapped Miss before escaping Judging by the colour of their clothes and their weapons, they should be from the Song Shan and Tai Shan sects. The Five Sword Sects! Madam, I will immediately report this to the Sect Leader and then descend the cliff to rescue her. I know the Sect Leader's temper When he decides on something, he will not go back on it It will be difficult to save Ying Ying if we waste time here. I will go chase them. Madam! &lt;i&gt;Stupid woman&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Aren't you looking for death?&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;It's hard to blame her&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; Where can you find a mother&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; who doesn't love their child?&lt;/i&gt; Somebody! Greetings Vice Sect Leader Take proper care of the Young Miss She must not be subjected to any harm Within four hours, Sect Leader will come out of his isolation and descend the cliff with the elites of the sect's forces At that time, gather the men and act according to the plan without a single mistake. Yes! There is nothing but cliffs here They're too smooth. Climbing will be more difficult then reaching the sky. Such hard cliff walls! Senior disciple mo da weapons are made of steel yet fails to penetrate the cliff. I really don't know how the sect members of the demon cult are able to come and go. We do not have the food or water to last half a month. We cannot come and return empty handed. What should we do? You are part of the Sun Moon Sect. What if I am You Five Sword Sects call yourself the righteous sects I never thought you would resort to such despicable methods where you ambushed and hurt a child. What now? You want to harm a woman now? The so called righteous people are but thus Return my child to me! I am neither buddhist nor Tao I do not believe in mercy or karma As long as they are members of the Sun Moon Sect, no matter young or old, they are within the boundaries which I can kill. As long as you reveal the path up Black Wood Cliff, I may be able to spare your life. Shameless! Ahmitoufou A man battling against a group of women How unseemly I don't know who kidnapped your child But I know that your life is now in my hands You can choose not to disclose how to climb the Black Cliff But I have a hundred ways of making you speak If you don't believe me, you can try Who are you? Why do you have Sun Moon Sect's anesthetic? Don't misunderstand I am no member of your evil sect The anesthetic is merely something I won in battle What song were you singing? It sounded very nice It was created by a predecessor of our Sun Moon Sect. I've sung it since I was a child Would you believe that in a short while all of you will die right here? Leave You're letting me go? I am a mother too I can understand your feelings Hurry and leave. These drugs are not too effective against the masters of the Five Sword Sect. If you don't leave now, it'll be too late You really didn't kidnap my child? We were stuck at the base of the mountain How could we scale it and steal your child? If we really could climb the Black Cliff kidnapping your child would hardly be the priority Think about it and you will understand Thank you Also If we meet again You don't have to spare me Neither will I let you off Senior Junior, you're really muddleheaded How can you use a potion from the Demon Cult? What if the demon girl decided to kill us? Then all the people of our five sects would have died! and if Zuo Lengchan found out... Witch, the witch has escaped. The evil women has escaped The witch has escaped! Senior, this... Senior why did you...! Remember impatience in small matters can ruin the big picture. Brother Yue what's happened here? Careful. Brother Zuo just now the devil cults people arrived On one hand they used an anesthetic and on the other rescued the demon girl Even I... Even I fell into their trap. Greetings, deputy chief. It's so late, why are you descending the cliff? I have received madams secret signal Madam must definitely be in danger. I gathered some men to conduct a rescue Madam is of course important, but Black Wood Cliff's safety is even more important. If you guys go down the cliff and the 5 sects takes this opportunity then the Sun Moon sect is doomed. But deputy clan leader Madam is in danger. If we do not go and rescue her - I came here specifically to resolve this. Leave Madam to me. You guys hurry back to the cliff. Yes, deputy leader! Dong fong brother, we are tricked! Ying ying is not kidnapped - Why... You are really stupid The cliff has such tight security How can Ying Ying be taken so easily? I'll tell you the truth I have already planned this for a long time How can I accept him not leaving his cave? Madam, I'm sorry Sect Leader! Young Mistress Ren has been kidnapped In order to protect her daughter, Madam has been killed by the Five Sword Sects Here, here, and here We haven't found anything yet If we can't find a way up the cliff Then we have to stay at the base of Black Woods Cliff I don't believe the evil cult can stay up there forever. Ren Wo Xing is here I heard that you righteous sects want to eliminate my Sun Moon Sect Then you should use your own talent instead of killing my wife and kidnapping my child How can you still call yourselves righteous?! Stop speaking nonsense! We didn't kidnap any child and we didn't kill that woman Too late! I want to spar with the Five Sword Sects today! Since it's like that Sect Leader Ren, don't mind if I do. Killing chickens with a cow-cleaving knife Let me see how great your skills are! Senior, are you okay? I'm okay Heroine Ning and priestesses I've killed plenty but never women or children Let me spar with Leader Zuo first then you three may spar with my female disciples You don't have to be so anxious Leader Zuo, come Star Swallowing Skill! This is not good. The star swallowing skill... if this continues, I'll lose all my martial arts. This demon will suck all my internal energy You dare have an inner energy battle with me? This is bad. Why is my internal energy roadblocked here? It isn't listening to me anymore Your inner strength is incredible indeed I am impressed! Now I can only go back up fast to treat my injury and order someone to find Ying Ying As for Xue Xin's revenge, I will have to tolerate it for the moment Today, my Divine Sun-moon Sect is at an obvious advantage If I were to eliminate all of you with one hand If news got out the people of Jianghu, will think we were bullying you. I'll give you another chance to leave and sort out all your unfulfilled wishes in this life In a month's time, I will lead 30,000 men and return to the central plains We will eliminate one sect, peak by peak to pay respects to my beloved wife! If by that time you five Righteous Sects still have even one person alive consider me Ren useless Go! Leader Zuo, thank god you were here Or else Five Sword Sects would have been wiped out We have now seen that devil's martial arts To get rid of the demon sect right now seems to be an impossibility So my suggestion is for everyone to remain united and rebuild a new alliance Only then can we withstand the attack in a month's time and battle it out with the demon cult What does everyone think? This idea is good. Standing united, the Five Sects are difficult to defeat As long as the Five Righteous Sects are of one heart the demon sect will be defeated by us eventually But, regarding the position of alliance leader Among us only Chief Zou's martial skill is the best the position of alliance leader should of course come to Chief Zou's hand. You're too kind I dare not accept that Senior Tianmen then what of our traditional, once in 10 years competition on Taishan's Yuhuang peak? Mr. Yue, you're still worried about that? Only Chief Zou has the ability to fight Ren WoXing on even footing Moreover, The last alliance leader chosen through the tournament was Chief Zou's master This time even if we do compete it will still be Chief Zuo's victory Furthermore, the demon has declared that he will battle us in a month We have no time to hesitate Chief Zou there is no reason to hesitate. Besides this is not a good position to hold the responsibility is huge Don't tell me Chief Zuo does not want to bear this responsibility? Don't you agree, Mr. Yue? Senior Tianmen is right Senior Zuo should follow heaven's will Dingyi also thinks that Chief Zuo is the best martial artists in the alliance My HengShan Sect will have no objections Amitabha If no one looks down on me then I shall not reject it Even though our alliance is made up for nuns, priests and non-religious people But our righteous hearts are the same From today, our alliance will fight against evil together Stand united and battle evil Stand united... Congratulations Sect Leader on obtaining the position of Alliance Leader They want me to head the alliance only because they think I can hold myself against Ren Wo Xing What is there to congratulate me about? But today, you proved to be on even ground with Ren Wo Xing All of us witnessed it I was only lucky &lt;i&gt;Just now, the demon Ren Wo Xing&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;could obviously have killed me&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;But why did he stop fighting?&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I cannot figure it out&lt;/i&gt; Obviously, your internal strength is great that even the Star Swallowing Skill is useless against it How is that lucky? Leave me Ren Wo Xing's Star Swallowing Skill is amazing If he had kept it up for awhile longer, I would've lost all of my energy Even if I had not died, I would've become a cripple Why did he give up such a good opportunity? Something must be amiss Forget it, I shan't think about it What is important now, is to make plans for future encounters with him Sucking someone's internal energy... If I can hide my internal energy, such that he cannot siphon it Or train my internal energy into a different form That's it I will do exactly that Xue Xin Wait for me I will make the Five Sword Sects accompany you Sect Leader please feel better Nothing is more important than your health In my opinion, Even though your internal injuries are not deep but it has long lasting effects You have ten master's internal energy within you from both the righteous and demonic ways But even if you have obtained it it is still not yours to command Normally, you can use your own internal energy to press it down But once you meet a Master these suppressed energies will rebel and create chaos If not saved in time, there will come a time... Speak I'm afraid you can't suppress the inner energy Your nerves and joints will be severed and your body left useless Ping Yi Zhi do you have any ways to treat this problem? Your condition can no longer be treated The only way now is for you to stop practicing your divine skills nor continue using it In the future you will have to release all of the obtained energy and rebalance your qi That is the only way to cure it completely I don't believe that these external energies can suppress my own energy Using your own strength of internal energies to suppress the extra energies has more harm than good Please reconsider Ping Yi Zhi This matter cannot be known to anyone Death to those that leak it Yes I obey your command I will leave immediately, disappear from jianghu, and promise to keep this secret I will not speak of your condition and will never step in Black Woods Cliff again Leave Sect Leader Your Zhen Qi has harmed your Yuan Qi coupled with your grief You cannot use your internal energy again As for the pressure point at the back of your brain, it definitely cannot be touched Otherwise the Zhen Qi will rebel Leave Please take care of yourself Sect Leader Greetings to Sect Leader Dongfang Bu Bai, why are you here? I've found Young Mistress whereabouts and snatched her back from the Five Swords Alliance Fortunately, we have not let you down And have safely brought Young Mistress back up the Cliff Ying Ying, what's wrong with her? When I rescued her, she was already like this I tried transferring energy to her several times already but it was no use How useless! Ying Ying, don't be afraid. I'm here Dad Mom Sect Leader's gone crazy! He's gone crazy! Hurry! Hurry! Hurry! Hurry up! Why is Sect Leader like that? I don't know He's been like that since he was back Maybe his wife's death was too much of a blow to him Sect Leader has already killed the Qi and Wu Elders We have to think of a way to subdued him first Otherwise the consequences will be unthinkable Although he has lost mental control, his powers are still intact To get close to him is not easy Dongfang is not the most talented But I don't want to see this internal killings going on in the sect I will bear the brunt of the leader's attack Xiang Left Envoy and Qu Right Envoy will assist If I die under his attack this sect will be in your hands Sect Leader! Sect Leader has lost his mental faculties he cannot be cured right now I suggest that we bring him for healing first When he recovers he can return to manage the sect What does everyone think? But... the sect cannot be without a leader Dongfang Deputy Leader used his wit and strength to save us The position of Sect Leader should be passed to him Wait, the passing of the Leader position should be discussed amongst us Furthermore, Sect Leader's spiral into lunacy is suspicious and should be investigated carefully Dongfang Deputy Leader was already being groomed to take over the position This Luo person tried to sow discord amongst us I have thus executed him Does anyone else have any objections? Divine Sun Moon Sect Never loses a battle Sect Leader Dong Fang is both learned and skilled He will lead us to conquering the Jianghu Xiang Left Envoy What do you think about this situation? On the surface, it looks like Sect Leader has suddenly lost his mind while Dongfang Bubai has saved us all But I still feel that something is amiss As for the hundred bear guards and archers it is obvious that they were pre-arranged by Dongfang Bubai I agree with you But we have no evidence Furthermore, Dongfang Bubai will officially be named leader tomorrow One thing at a time How is the Sect Leader now? He has been sent off in the night But we have no idea where he has been sent to We can only hope that Dongfang Bubai is not too cruel A mountain cannot accomodate two tigers Dongfang Bubai has been planning this coup for a long time But the powers of the sect has long landed in his hands This situation has presented himself with the best opportunity There is no way that he would let it pass So that he can sleep peacefully at night How could he let off our Master? What do we do then? We cannot watch our leader being sent to his death Of course not But at this point, the board is set We have to protect ourselves first When my duties here are completed, I'll make an excuse to leave the mountain I must find Leader Ren's whereabouts How about this, I'll go get ready for Dongfang Bubai's ascension tomorrow I'll have to trouble you then Our ancestors in heaven Your disciple, Qu Yang, begs you to protect our sect leader and protect our divine sun moon sect Who's there? Young Mistress? Young Mistress, why are you here? Uncle Qu, it was Uncle Dongfang who harmed my father When I woke up, I saw him attack my father from behind Young Mistress, you cannot speak nonsense about this I'm not speaking nonsense. I really saw it Remember, even if you did see it, you have to pretend you didn't see it Haven't you heard of the phrase: When another someone else's roof, you have to lower your head And no matter what, you must remember If you can keep the mountain, you will not lack firewood Do you understand? Divine Sun Moon Sect, never loses a battle Leader Dongfang, learned and skilled He dominates all, and will lead the Jianghu Divine Sun Moon Sect, never loses a battle Leader Dongfang, Learned and skilled He dominates all, and will lead the Jianghu Divine Sun Moon Sect, never loses a battle Leader Dongfang, Learned and skilled He dominates all, and will lead the Jianghu (Greeting) Young lady, where have you been? I was looking for you the whole day Uncle Dongfang. I heard Uncle Qu said Thanks to you, my Dad didn't cause a disaster I am so grateful to you. So I present this to you. I hope that you are ever victorious. (( Sunflower Manual )) Sun Moon Sect students hear my order From this day forth, Ying Ying is the Holy Lady of our Sun Moon Sect if you see Holy Lady is like seeing Dongfang Bubai me Whoever disobeys will be killed. We will obey. Respect to the Chief, Respect to the Holy Lady Ai ya! That hurts, that hurts. Why did you come here? You dare to steal your father's things? It's only a book. Ying Ying was only playing with you If you are really mad, then you are petty Ying Ying This isn't a normal book it's a treasure treasure ? yes Sunflower Manual its the guarded treasure of our Sect Only the Sect leader Can have it Sunflower Manual Is it a book on growing sunflower? Growing sunflowers? You are really a silly child Ying Ying This book contains, The world's great martial art skills its power is great Dad, did you learned &lt;b&gt;the great martial art skills?&lt;/b&gt; it's been a long time&lt;b&gt;since you played with Ying Ying&lt;/b&gt; Is it because you're practicing this skill? I'm not learning it I'm learning something else called Star Sucking skill Dad, I don't understand why don't you learn the Sunflower manual but instead learn the Star Sucking skill? This is a difficult question for me I'll answer you like this Have you seen a sunflower? I've seen it it's a flower that's big like a dish and looks toward the sun right? That's right Then, Ying Ying Do you know, when night comes, the stars up there,&lt;b&gt;floating so high in the sky,&lt;/b&gt; why don't they fall down? This, I don't know That's because the sucking of the sun&lt;b&gt;hold all those stars in their places on the sky&lt;/b&gt; Star Sucking skill that I'm learning&lt;b&gt;is like that concept&lt;/b&gt; Do you understand now? Yes, I understand Then Ying Ying, tell me, is it better for me to be the sun, or to be a sunflower? Sun is better Ying Yng This Sunflower Manual, though it has great power, but it has with it equally great danger I won't learn it Ying Ying This jianghu has lots of people who think&lt;b&gt;that I always havethis Sunflower Manual on me&lt;/b&gt; or hid it in some secret place But they can never imagine that&lt;b&gt;I hid this Sunflower Manual&lt;/b&gt; behind First Moon hall in your room Ying'er If someone comes to steal this Manual People what does Sect Leader needs? Get me some women Find me a woman Yes Sect Leader, I have brought the one you want Before, Leader Dongfang never come near a woman These past few days, why did he suddenly changed? Is there a man in this world that doesn't like women? Before, he acted like that for people to see Now that he's Sect Leader, of course... Sect leader's situation, &lt;b&gt;is it something for you to discuss?&lt;/b&gt; We deserve to die. we deserve to die Leave..&lt;b&gt;yes&lt;/b&gt; Reporting to the Sect Leader, Xiang Wentian ask to see you Where's Sect Leader? Where has Sect Leader gone? Here, eat one more Hurry Do you need me for something? Sect Leader, this... Fake is real, real is fake real, real, fake, fake&lt;b&gt; why so serious?&lt;/b&gt; Elder Xiang Your kungfu isn't bad How about let me experience it for a bit? Alright? Are you alright? Is my martial arts impressive? Impressive This is merely a small part of it the resurrection skill and the blooming skill the manual mentioned I still have to practice for several more years This manual is really an amazing treasure I have to bow in admiration Am I beautiful? If I say you have to choose me and the Sunflower manual what would you choose? Sect Leader, this... Do you believe that within ten years, I will be number one in this Wu Ling First in wit and ability, leading the Sect forever and ever, controlling jianghu? &lt;i&gt;Ten Years Later&lt;/i&gt; That one's nice Look at this Look at that one Am I pretty? Pretty One at a time, don't worry What are you doing!? Do you want me to bring out the punishment? Lu Da Yao, give me that! Won't give it to me. When I find it, watch how I will deal with you. I won't let you go! teacher why is this wooden box empty? Bu Qun this wooden box has to do with our Mount Hua's wellbeing You must watch over it closely look at me &lt;i&gt;(Sound effect)&lt;/i&gt; Bu Qun did you see it clearly? I saw it clearly All those moves, could it be from the Sunflower manual? I'm also not clear I only know the Sunflower manual which contains skills more powerful then imaginable was once in our hands then it was stolen by the evil sect there is only those few moves left teacher, forgive my frank words those moves from before... Isn't powerful enough right? I said the same thing before but our founder had instructed us that, no matter what, we have to pass down these moves &lt;b&gt;to the later generation&lt;/b&gt; until when our Mount Hua Sect's descendants could find out the secret within them Buqun yes after the founder sword and Qi conflicted Mount Hua Sect's reputation was very much hurt Mount Hua Sect today, can we spread our greatness or not is completely dependent on you yes teacher &lt;i&gt;Yue Bu Qun&lt;/i&gt; how will you spread Mount Hua Sect's greatness? &lt;i&gt;What do you have to become Meng Zhu?&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Ten years ago, Dong Fang Bu Bai&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;taken over Ren Mo Xing's Sect Leader position&lt;/i&gt; the shame of that year cannot be revenged just based on these moves, if I want to beat Zuo Lengshan, it's as difficult as climbing to Heaven Shi Xiong Shi Xiong What's wrong? The new teacher want to leave I cannot dissuade him what did those little monkeys do now? Teacher please stay. whatever those little kids did to offend you, please be generous and discipline them Forget it I can no longer teach those disciples of yours All are disrespectful and lazy If I were to continue to teach, this old life of mine will be over. Teacher these kids don't know things it's hard for them not to do wrong that's why we hope you could discipline them you see... Teacher, I know it is difficult to teach them well It requires a lot of your energy How about this starting next week, your salary will double What do you think? What do we do? not good, not good. it's not good, Big Brother What if he stays? We can't let him stay Don't worry. He won't stay. This... Hurry Here He's done for! I hope teacher... it hurts who is it? who? Let's go Teacher madam Yue, Master Yue I understand your good will but I cannot do it Goodbye no, no teacher. Teacher Teacher! Scumbags. scumbags. scumbags They're really too much Shi Xiong Shi Xiong you are a bunch of rude, unambitious kids How many times have I told you? Practice your martial arts well study your book well You really won't listen? You tell me How many teachers have you scared off? master All those teachers are completely useless They just know to tell us to memorize and write They never explain the concepts to us They just know to fall asleep, to get angry, to blame others To study is like not to study That's right I want to ask him how to makeup, How to paint nail's But he doesn't know He just know how to say,&lt;b&gt;Pass beliefs, absorbs intelligence, solve problems&lt;/b&gt; I think that he only knows a little and was just faking That's right. He also said that women with no talents are good If that's so, then why should I study? That's right. yes right, right Shi Niang, He even insults you insult me? He said women and evil people are both hard to maintain Isn't that insulting to both you and Shi-mei? That's right. that's right Talking nonsense De Nuo, keep hitting for me master Shi Xiong we already hit them. enough I want them to remember If not, once the wound heals, they'll forget the hurt De Nuo... master, I have one request After we are punished, can we rest for a few days? If we can't rest, can we stay here and not have to go buy supplies? That's right Last time, after being punished, we even had to go down the mountain we were injured yet have to carry so much supplies it really hurt really pitiful. That's right hmm.,. De Nuo, keep hitting for me before the sunset, go buy supplies This should be far enough My dad won't be able to hear this far Let's go This is great We finally can get out Little sister your awesome. You knew teacher would beat us, so we were already prepared. This time, we can go out and enjoy ourselves! Of course!&lt;b&gt;Senior Brother&lt;/b&gt; Dad gave us three days to buy food and daily items But I can only think about where we're going to play for the next three days! Senior Brother, didn't you want to bring me to that place, that place That doesn't seem like a good idea Senior Brother, It's a waste of our youth if we don't enjoy ourselves Think about it. You and Junior Sister are not even married, yet you're already afraid of her After you're married, there will never be another chance to visit a place like that Lu Dayou What are you two whispering about? You're planning something bad aren't you? Let me tell you guys if you dare to hide it I will go tell Dad and let you two be sent to Repentance Cliff for a year Junior Sister, how there we hide anything There's nothing to hide from you It's like this We were planning what interesting things to show you Really? What is it? Guess Tell me what it is Fine. I'll tell you if you can catch me. Don't run! Big brother don't run. Wait for me! Wait for me! Don't run! Good! What do you think? He can spit out fire! Excuse me There's nothing inside. Good! Do it one more time Do it one more time Let's go Wait. Junior Sister, is it interesting? Very, very! Are you hungry? No. I have food. You have food... But you can eat more That's right Amazing! Let's talk later How can I wait to talk later? I saw delicious things at that stall I'll go buy you some Senior Brother! Junior Sister Looking at Senior Brother, isn't he doing that to gain your favor? For what? If nothing's up he wouldn't be kissing up to me like that! Now what's wrong with you? My stomach hurts. I need to go to the washroom Stay still! One needs to go to the washroom and the other needs to buy food Are you guys purposefully leaving me here?! Ahh Junior Sister you can come with me if you don't believe me Let's go! I can't hold it in anymore! Okay! You can go by yourself I'll wait for you guys here. Thanks Junior Sister Junior sister, Junior sister Washroom's that way. Hurry and take this. Hurry. - Wait for me Wait for me Hurry back! Everyone, Dong Fang Bu Bai is the most powerful in Jiang Hu At our brothel, out of all our beauties, there is also a Dong Fang Bu Bai Good How beautiful! How pretty! Today, which of our guests will be so lucky Woah, Senior Brother. This place is beautiful! Yeah Lu Dayou Our money is for buying grains Its enough to just look. Let's leave. Big brother What? Where did you get that much money?! I saved for a year Besides, we'll just drink a bit of tea and learn more about the world We're not doing anything. It'll be enough for sure. Then what about Junior Sister? Little martial sister's martial arts isn't bad. Ordinary people can't hurt her. moreover, You have to broaden your mind a little and see other girls or else how do you know who's good or not? No need regarding women little martial sister is enough. But drinking good wine is a pretty good idea You're here two sirs We have good wine and beautiful women here Okay, bring a bottle of wine Okay Please sit Bring good wine! Customer Good wine! Big martial brother i'll have a sip too. What do you mean by have a sip? Go look at beautiful women Let me drink enough nonsense. This is great! It's been so long and they haven't returned something must be up. Don't be in such a hurry How uninteresting! How about we have a chat? What do you want to talk about? For example, these days... why are there so many swordsmen? Normally we seldom see so many skilled men gathered Were gathered to deal with the devil cults Donfang Bubai. How do you intent to do that? First I should deal with you Dongfang Bubai, before I tell you how to deal with that Dongfang Bubai. If you won't tell me, I won't let you touch. I'll tell you. We have a plan We'll have someone to challenge Dongfang Bubai once he shows up, we'll poison his food, and wine. How evil! One who is not evil is not a man This is the best joke I have ever heard Simply with this lowly rotten method of yours you dare to call that a plan? How about listen to your suggestions? Black Woods Cliff is full of skilled men There are the Heaven, Earth, Wind and Thunder cults Twelve Chief of Flags, ten cult elders, and the guardians. Challenge Dongfang Bubai? The Five Mountain Sword Sects Alliance attacked Black Woods Cliff back then. They couldn't even so much as touching the entrance door And you're thinking of poisoning her? Isn't that wishful thinking? moreover, There's nothing Dongfang Bubai doesn't know even those closest to him have no way of poisoning him. With your mere poisoning skill that man would have already died a hundred times How would you know? Did you not see the sign outside? I am Dong Fang Bu Bai Didn't I say so? You can't even see his attack Greetings to Chief! Come in. Here's news of every sect in jianghu May chief review it please you've done well. Take care of that body Yes Procuress! Sir, I'm here We've been here for a while and haven't seen one pretty woman You took my money without giving what it's worth Do you want me to destroy your shop? Don't Come here Sir, look carefully How pretty Tao Hong is! Look! Unappealing. Get lost! Get lost! You look so unattractive! Get lost! Wait for a while more, mister. I'll get you Liu Hong. Liu Hong's still here. Liu Hong is gorgeous! And that Liu Lv They are all beautiful ladies. How about that, sir? Please bother about them, alright? Big martial brother look quick. Look at what? I want her Forget it, today I am tired. Next time we'll see. No one has ever escaped from me Looks like you want to die Ren Hao! After her! Yes! Let's go. Go where? To help her. I'll see where you think you can run. Chase her! Let's go Senior Brother Ren Hao, go! Our teacher always teaches us to meet the heroes in jianghu when we're out here Do you know who's the most famous hero right now is? Senior Brother, I can't think of who it is How ignorance Of course it is the famous Four Elegants of Qingcheng The Four Elegants of Qingcheng? Yup! Do you know why they are called the Four Elegants of Qingcheng? - I don't know You don't know right? Because they're not humans, but beasts What did you say? Who are you? How dare you insult us, the Four Elegants of Qingcheng! Well said! I'm Linghu Chong from Huashan Sect I was wondering who it was. So it was Huashan Sects, Head Disciple Linghu Chong. Our Qincheng Sect, and your Huashan Sect have always been like river &amp; sea water, never mixing. How dare you insult our Qingcheng Sect? I insulted you? Lu Dayou Did I insult them? Absolutely not. Exactly! No matter how I look at them, they look like beasts I say, Four Elegants of Qingcheng. What have I said wrong? Linghu Chong! If you dare to keep spouting nonsense don't blame me for being impolite! Please don't treat me politely, I'm most scared of people treating me politely! You! Don't waste your breath on him Let him taste our Song Feng Swordplay! What both of you used doesn't seem to be Qingcheng sect's Song Feng Swordplay. You don't have to worry about what kind of swordsmanship we're using As long as we win, that's the better swordsmanship Oh I know What you used is &quot;Stroke Swordplay&quot; You! Lu Dayou Did you see? This is Qingcheng Sect martial arts, called &quot;Bum bum back, geese landing in sand&quot;. Linghu Chong Just you wait! Look at what this is! Miss are you alright? Who are you!? Hmph shameless juniors. You don't even greet Dongfang Bubai when you see him? Dare to ask who I am? You don't want to live? Dong Fang Bu Bai! Elder martial brother were no match for her, let's go quick! Since it's Elder Dong Fang, forgive us juniors for not recognizing you let's go. You! Who'd have guessed? The great and illustrious Dong Fang Bu Bai, is really just a little girl. This is the funniest joke i've heard in a long time. Don't you use your dog eyes to look down on me! you didn't let me finish. I'm Dongfang Bubai... his cousin Xifang Shibai! Then you're destined to fail. - Ren Hao Linghu Chong, just you wait. We're not done yet I'll be waiting Let's go. Little martial sister.Little martial sister, are you alright? You dare ask me? You don't mean to tell me you bought something this late all the way out here right? I didn't! I mean to rescue a Miss She disappeared! Miss! Still calling Miss? This time, even ten mouths won't explain this situation No no no, Junior Sister Junior sister! Let's go Junior sister! Linghu Chong? Chief, you have returned. Did everything go well this time? I personally went. Would anything go wrong? Is everything well in the sect? All is well Chief Yu Niang has made bird nest soup Please have a little What's wrong with you? You're acting strange. I... You used poison! I deserve death! I have my own difficulties I beg Chiefs forgiveness! I'll kill you! Chief just relax and go peacefully. I will be your servant in the next life to make up for today Yu Niang, how is it? did you succeed? Excellent. With this i've rendered Songshan Sect a great merit! Ah Long, what about us? Us? Yu Niang Us being together is something that's against Heaven's will I've always thought when you accomplish this task I can ask my Teacher But then I thought we had to use a girl to get rid of evil that will dishonor our sect Ah Long Then what do you want? I think... I can only... be sorry towards you! Yu Niang Just for this kind of man, you betray me? Is it worth it? Chief! Do you really think a little poison can kill me? Then I would have died a million times already I can see you still have some loyalty towards me Kill him yourself, and I can allow you to live. Don't! Yu Niang Don't! Yu Niang! Why are you so stupid? It's because, I love him. Chief. You don't know how sweet love can be It feels like you're dreaming Just a few days I can sacrifice my life to experience that You're too silly! I'm not stupid. Chief You're always paying attention to the Sect business thinking of plans making traps, and other things It's the same thing every day If one day you're able to find love you'll definitely... Yu Niang What is love?! I, I don't know. Then you should let Yu Niang teach you slowly Senior, look here Even though Chong'er and them are a little mischievous, they do get everything done Today is the third day Everything you needed are here They also brought trouble! Trouble? What did they do now? take a look for your self. How could Chong'er offend Qincheng Sect? How would I know? Where is our &quot;precious&quot; eldest disciple? Miss, may I dare ask what made you so angry? My older martial brother is so bad! He went out to play without telling me He also helped another girl I'm so jealous! I'm so bitter! Who's jealous? Don't think so highly of youself you smiled. Smiling means you're no longer mad In the future, you're not allowed to fool me. If you still fool me, I won't bother with you for the rest of our lives. I won't fool you! I'll never fool you again! Then was that woman good looking? Which woman? You're still playing dumb! I can't remember what she looks like Really? Really! How about this, If I still fool you, you can use Chongling Swordplay to stab me a few times Is that fine? Speaking of Chongling Swordplay there are still a few moves at the end I can't figure out how to practice I want to ask Dad but he doesn't like us practicing anything not related to Huashan Senior Brother If we still can't perfect the moves when we're very old then this swordplay would be wasted How is that possible? Both of us are so smart, how can we not figure it out? Why not do it and see? Okay What do you think our next moves should be? Got it! Here These moves are great! Big martial Brother, how did you come up with it? That day when I saw QingCheng Sect swordplay I went to counter it and next thing you know, I understood their moves Not bad You practice it a few times for me to see Okay Those sword moves of yours, Is it really What you learnt from the Qing Cheng sect disciples? While fighting with them? It's really true, Teacher! I would never have the guts to deceive Teacher! You have our sect's swordplay but you're not learning it. And yet, you want to come up with your own moves! The learning of martial arts should go by its course As the saying goes... Haste makes waste It's good that you know it! Listen to me carefully. You are not to practice other skills as you like in the future Do you understand? Yes, disciple understands. I am doing this for your own good. You do not have a solid foundation yet If you fool around while practicing, it is easy to spiral into madness Master, rest assured. I won't do it again This is a letter received this morning sent by Qingcheng sect leader Yu Canghai. What do you think we should do? Master! They were bullying a lady! This is a problem for the officials to handle Not yours! You must know Now every sect of the Martial World should reunite to deal with the demonic cult What you've done has caused trouble to our Huashan sect Disciple admits to fault. Next time Disciple won't dare. Next time is Next time. What about this time? What Master means is...? You personally go to Qingcheng Sect, and apologize to Chief Yu. I will have Denuo go with you Keep in mind. Every sect in the Martial World should get along harmoniously Yes Master. Go on then. Disciple bids farewell. Strange. These moves made by Chong'er are all meant to counter the moves that Master taught me Don't tell me our Secret Manual, has some connection to Qingcheng Sect? Elder brother, elder brother, Did dad punish you? Don't bring it up. Master has passed down a severe punishment. Don't tell me dad sentenced you to the Cliff of Contemplation? This punishment is even worse then The Cliff of Contemplation! What is it? What did my father say? Master said... What did he say? Master said... What did he say?? Then I'll say it. Master said he would have you marry me. This fast. You actually believed even this!? You! Here I was concerned about you, and you dare trick me! I'm not going to bother with you anymore! Don't be upset! I was just playing around with you. People like you, everything is good about you, but you have no standards! What did my father say? Master is sending me to apologize to Qingcheng Sect. This Yu Canghai really is really petty He's a grand Sect Leader and yet he still tattled me out to Master! Don't worry, I'll talk to my dad, and accompany you. Sound good? Don't bother. Master will just get angry at me again. How about this? You stay here on the mountain, and when I return I'll take you out to eat. Sound good? What's wrong now? Huashan is so far away from Qingcheng, When will I be able to see you? You know, In the entire Huashan Sect, you were the only one would play with me, With you gone, who will play with me? Who will teach me swordplay? And there will be nobody to tell me stories You know if I don't hear stories at night, I won't be able to sleep. Hey, what about this? At night, Elder Brother will find some friends to play with you. How about it? Friends? Really? Really! That stupid senior! And he said he would find me friends to play with? It's already so late but there's no sign of anyone Lies Junior! It's too late! I've already gone to sleep. You can still talk if you're sleeping? I don't want to bother with you anymore! It's okay if you don't pay attention to me, but there are a lot of friends waiting for you outside. Don't be rude You, what friends have you found for me? You'll know when you come out. Come on! Elder disciple brother? Elder disciple brother! Annoying! Are you looking for me? You just keep playing with me! Hey, where are your friends? I wanted to catch some fireflies for you But I couldn't catch them Fireflies? What's so special about them? At the most, they only glow for one night I've thought of an idea that will keep you company for a long time That? This is just a shabby old lantern! Hey, don't think of it as just a lantern! Go on. Let's go inside and look. Come on! Alright How pretty! Pretty, right? I didn't lie to you, right? Like this, can't it keep you company for many days? Elder disciple brother, you really are something As long as it makes you happy, If there is anything I have to do, I will do it. Alright, it's getting late. You get some early rest, okay? I'm leaving. Elder disciple brother, elder disciple brother, I really like that lantern. I'm very happy. I really am. I'm also really happy. Really. Good lord! Will he embrace me? Or will he kiss me? Get some early rest, okay? Apologize, apologize, apologize. What is there to apologize about? Those bastards, Why do I have to apologize to them? If it wasn't because Master wanted me to apologize to them, I would never apologize to them! Senior Brother, let things come as they will It's only an apology Forget it, I'll listen to you I'm sorry My master is busy and cannot see you immediately Please wait for a while This Leader Yu seems really busy Since that's the case, junior, let's go down the mountain for a drink first Senior, we're here to apologise No matter what, we have to show some sincerity If someone comes to get us and we're not here Won't it make things worse? Then how long do we have to wait? With us waiting here, if they ignore us, it'll be against the rules of chivalry We'll just wait for a while more Forget it. We'll do as you say Still didn't come out? That Yu Cang Hai! We came here to apologise but he's making us wait so long I think it's done on purpose If it's really done on purpose Then it's really not something a sect leader should do Exactly Junior, They don't let us in but that doesn't mean that we can't go in ourselves. Senior, you want to barge in? Barging in is so tiring Won't I have to beat them flat on their butts one by one? Even if it doesn't tire me out, I'll get bored first I'll go in on my own Senior Junior, this is really fun! Senior! I've been captured! I can't get down! I'll see you later! Bye! Be obedient! That's more like it Renyuan, how are you practicing? Those moves lack energy Have you been practicing according to your father's instructions? Of course Father, but I feel that these... What's wrong? I feel that this Bi Xie Swordplay is useless Why do we have to practice it so hard? You... What do you know? Back then, head of imperial guards, Lin Yuan Tu used these 72 steps to dominate the pugilistic world He even defeated our ancestor Master Chang Qing He defeated ancestor Chang Qing? Father, you must be joking! Ancestor Chang Qing was known as the best at swordplay amongst all This Bi Xie Swordplay merely seems like the moves are complicated But do not lose to our sect's Relaxed Wind Swordplay in terms of might Father, did you remember wrongly? On this point, I am not too sure But based on what Ancestor Chang Qing said, The Lim Family's Bi Xie Swordplay may look nothing out of the ordinary But there are great mysteries hidden within it Users would become as fast as lightning as though they are ghosts and it is extremely hard to guard against The reason why I'm making all of you learn this is not because I want you to understand the mysteries within But I have a plan So Master sent people into the city to keep an eye on the Lim Family because you have something in mind? Father, then when can we act against the Lim Family? Lin Zhennan has returned to his ancestral home Without the protection of the imperial court, He can't escape from me Who knew that a mighty sect leader Would actually do something so devious No wonder his disciples are such beasts Watch how I take care of you Who are you, prowler?! You dare to spy on our Qingcheng sect while we practice. Just passing by...passing by... Master, this is Huashan sect's Linghu Chong! Chief Yu. I honestly didn't mean to spy on your martial training area! It's all because of that bird, he's the one that brought me here. Rest assured. I'll kill and eat it later. Utter nonsense! Master he's here to cause trouble! Do not be rude, Ren Jie. There our guests. I've read the letter. A gentleman's sword is a gentleman's sword indeed. Each and every word is gentlemanly Linghu Chong To have made you punished by your master, I'm really sorry about it. Do not say that, Chief Yu. It's all because of my impetuosity. I deserve it. Chief Yu, our master has a token for you. Hopefully Chief Yu could consider the close bond between our two sects and let bygones be bygones. Chief Yue is really kind indeed. Ren Jie. Please tell Chief Yue Mount Hua Sect and Qingcheng Sect have always been on good terms. This time it is only a mischief of the disciples. Don't take it seriously. Chief Yu is magnanimous indeed! If Chief Yu doesn't have anything else, we'll make our move. We'll make our move. Alright. Let's go. Senior brother. Are you alright, senior brother? Senior brother. This is our Qingcheng Sect's 'Geese Landing in Sand' technique. Senior brother. Keep that in mind, Linghu Chong. Scram. Are you alright, Chong'er? I'm fine. That Yu Canghai is really too much. As a senior master, he actually sneak attacked a junior. Chong'er. How could you peek at their training session? This is a crime of the puglistic world. No wonder Chief Yu would attack you. I don't mean to peep, master. Besides, that technique of theirs was also ill-gotten. What is it? It's Bixie Swordplay. What is it? It's Bixie Swordplay. I heard it's the family swordplay of the Imperial Guard Chief Commander, Lin Yuantu. I'll show you if you can't believe it. Aren't those the few moves passed down to me by master? How did those end up learned by Qingcheng Sect? And it's related to Lin Yuantu. Lin Yuantu... Lin Yuantu... Senior brother, have you forgotten? His grandson is the current commander in charge of the capital imperial guard, Lin Zhennan. Although his martial arts is only so-so, he is righteous in person. He became the emperor's favourite. Those in the pugilistic world will also show him respect. We've met him a few times before. I remember. The Lins and Qingcheng Sect... do have some disputes between them. Back then Lin Yuantu was famous for his 72-Style Bixie Swordplay Back then Lin Yuantu was famous for his 72-Style Bixie Swordplay He certainly did defeat some invulnerable figures among the outlaws. Besides, he had the position as the imperial guard. Very awe-inspiring. At that time, several people of the orthodox parties witnessed his magnificence. So one after another, they challenge him to martial arts. And Priest Changqing was also defeated under his Bixie Swordplay. He held a grudge just because he was defeated. This Priest Changqing was the same as Yu Canghai. To lose in a martial arts competition won't be seen as a deep grudge. Besides, Lin Yuantu had long gained his fame. He was the hero of Changqing Zi. Whereas Changqing Zi is just a newborn little priest. Whereas Changqing Zi is just a newborn little priest. A junior defeated by a senior. What's so big deal about it? But it's said that this Changqing Zi passed away when he was 36 years old. I guess he couldn't get over it and eventually died. That is also possible. It has been decades. Yu Canghai suddenly leads his disciples to practice Bixie Swordplay. That's strange. I think it should be that those from Qingcheng Sect is narrow-minded. That's why they'll go by hooks or by crooks to get revenge. That's what I think too. However, if Lin Yuantu were to die before Changqing Zi, and Yu Canghai wants to avenge his teacher, he should go after Lin Yuantu's son, Lin Zhongxiong. But why did he wait till now to think of taking revenge. This Yu Canghai is pretty shrewd and scheming. Looks like there will be a fierce battle between the Lins and Qingcheng Sect. Senior brother, if a fight really breaks out, what will be the outcome? Yu Canghai's martial arts skill surpasses his master. His skill is already above that of Priest Changqing. As for Lin Zhennan's skill, although many does not know his background, most probably he's not as good as his forefather. With this, even before the fight, the Lins are already 70% defeated. Moreover, Lin Zhennan has retired. He doesn't have any support pillar anymore. I think this time, Qingchen Sect will plan out a surprise attack. The Lins will be defeated for sure. No doubt about it. If Lin Zhennan... managed to get help from his relative, the Golden Sabre Sect, then perhaps they will still have a chance. Master, do I have to report this to them so that the Lins won't die in the hands of Yu Canghai? Foolish. The grudges of JiangHu (martial arts world) is not for us to interfere with. But Teacher, didn't we say we are going to investigate and help? Silence. I have my own plans for this situation. I have an errand for you to complete. The 15th of next month, is the retirement ceremony of our Senior Liu. in my place, you will prepare and arrive with a grand gift for the ceremony and tell him I will arrive shortly. Yes, Teacher. Just came back from Sichuan... now I have to go to He Yang Does this mean that I, Linghu Chong, am fated to a life full of tiring labor? If Young Sister (the teacher's daughter) finds out that I have to leave again, she is going to be mad at me. &lt;i&gt;Love and hate&lt;/i&gt; Young Sister! &lt;i&gt;Closely resemble hazy clouds.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Sometimes scattered and at times foggy&lt;/i&gt; Junior sister! What are you doing? Come up, quick! Senior brother What do you think one will be like when he dies? Does it mean he wouldn't have any pain or worries? There'll be nothing left if one dies. Come, quick. Nothing will be left? It's still better than staying on Mount Hua like a fool. You were away for a month. I finally see that you return. Now you're leaving again. If that's the case, I might as well... Alright, alright! It's all my fault. Don't move. I'll come over to save you now. Don't move! Don't come over, senior brother! This branch is brittle. You'll fall with me if you come over to save me. We'll die together then! You're really nice, senior brother. That's for sure. Let's go back. Let's go. Did I scare you? You naughty imp! My head... Come on up, junior sister. My head... Are you alright? I'm alright. Are you alright? You're so nice, senior brother. You're actually willing to die for me. I'll die out of fright even if I don't want to. What's there to be scared of? I've experimented this out several times. Nothing will happen. I heard that those from Black Woods Cliff come down by this mean too! I heard that those from Black Woods Cliff come down by this mean too! Right! I think there are other ways. I'll show you again the next time. There's a 'next'? Can we not have a 'next time'? Sure. But you'll have to promise me something. What is it? Elope. Elope? Why do we have to elope? You see, when we're on Mount Hua, dad will either want us to study or want you on an errand. Just like this time. You left for more than a month. I finally get to see you return. Now you're leaving again. I told dad that I want to go with you. But he wouldn't agree. It's all right. It's his business to not agree. But it's our business to elope. Senior brother, tell me, do you agree to it? This... I don't care. I'll give you two options. Either you go with me, or I'll go alone. Junior sister. Do you really wish to leave? How about after we left? After we left, we can go to several places. We can eat whatever we want. We can eat whatever we want. Play whenever we want. When we're running short of money, we can make money through performing. We can even take students and even establish our own sect. Named... I know! Chong Ling Sect! Chong Ling Sect? That's great! Alright! We'll travel all over the world in the future! Deal! Deal! Hooray! Did you hear something? It's a little bird Yes. It seems like it's sick Then would its mother be really worried? Where is its mother? There she is We'll send it back home Come up Good lil' bird. Time to go home. You must recover soon. Good lil' bird. Here. Elope. Don't elope. Elope. Don't elope. Elope. Don't elope. Elope. Who is it? Chong'er. Master-Wife! Master-Wife. You haven't slept yet? It's still early. Have a seat. You're leaving tomorrow. I've concocted some medicine. Keep it with you. Also this money, Take this with you. Buy yourself something nice to eat Thank you, Master-Wife. You, You entered Huashan Sect when you were ten years old. In my eyes, You are the same as Lingshan. Your master is really too much. With so many disciples, he'd still send you for any errands. You're leaving again tomorrow. Master-wife, don't be like that. I'll return from this trip very soon, right? That's right. You'll return soon. You children, if you all really were to leave for years, I don't know how I will spend my days. I was too young to understand that before. Now I have become a mother and really understand the complicated feelings of a mother and the fear of her son not returning soon. Alright then. Rest early. Tomorrow, have a safe journey. Yes, Master-Wife. Master-Wife. Thank you. I'm even done packing! A waste of effort. Junior sister. It's late. Why are you here? Don't be mad. I don't mean to be late. It's because I'm helping you... to look for this. Little bird! Why did you bring it here? Don't you like it? So I caught it here. From now on, you'll rear it. Alright. But... What's wrong? Little Bird got a mother too. If we keep it here, Little Bird's mother will get worried. Senior brother, is it alright for us to do this? You know that too. You know how sad the mother will be if the little bird leaves its mother? But think about it. If you leave Master-Wife, how upset Master-Wife will be. I... Alright. I know you're doing it for my sake. How about this. I give you my word. After Uncle-Master Liu's 'Gold Basin Hand-Washing' ceremony (retirement ceremony), I will come back to you immediately. We'll never part. Alright? Did you notice something seems to have come between us? Something comes between us? What is it? I don't think anything has come between us. You don't understand what I'm saying at all! Alright. Be good, okay? Master. My honorable forefathers. Disciple Yue Buqun finally lives up to your expectation. I found out those remaining moves... are actually Imperial Guard Lin's Bixie Swordplay. Although I'm not sure of how the Lins were connected to Huashan in the past, in order for Huashan to fluorish, and to not let you forefathers down, I will certainly do my best and stop at nothing to find out the secret of the Bixie Swordplay. May my forefathers watch over me in heaven. Little bird, little bird. do you think Senior brother and I can be together? You ask whether I like him or not? Of course I do! When Senior Brother is on Mount Hua, the whole Mount Hua is so lively! Look. Now he's gone, this place is quiet and dull. And there's no one to play with me. Dad wouldn't let me wander about either. It's going to bored me to death. Shan'er Why did you climb so high up for? Come down! Mother Mother Really! I'm not a child anymore I'm the daughter of the leader of Hua Shan My qinggong is great What? Are you still angry about not being able to follow your Senior to Heng Shan? Does father intend to lock me up in Huashan forever? Your father is afraid of you spending too much time with Chong'er The both of you are so reckless, you are bound to stir up trouble Then I can walk on a different road from senior Do you think I will believe you? Mother, can't you just close one eye? All right Lately you haven't been motivated to practice either Making trouble everywhere Your father is sending Denuo to go to the road back to Lim Zhennan's home to take a look Why don't you go with him? Really? But you have to promise me not to create trouble You must listen to your 2nd Senior's instructions Mother, your daughter is so obedient, don't worry Thank you! What on earth is being hidden here? Why does father never let me know? Relying on oneself is better than relying on others Pingzhi Hurry, come up now Come Be careful Pingzhi, how many times must I tell you This is a restricted place, no one can come in Why don't you listen to me? Mother I am the only child in this family These secrets of yours will have to be told to me eventually Why not tell me now? What you own will be your ruin if it causes other's greed. We don't tell you, it's for you own good. One day- You always say 'one day in the future' I'm already grown up I don't want to be kept in the dark for the rest of my life Pingzhi I don't care if you tell me or not But let me tell you I won't give up If, one day, you see your own son being killed by these traps I hope that you won't regret it Pingzhi Young Master, how is it? Have you seen it? Need you even ask? Look at young master's expression You are really always touching other people's sore spot. Young Master, Old Master will tell you everything sooner or later. I really have no idea why! It's always those traps! When we were in the capital, it was kept in a specific huge mansion to keep me out. Fine. Now we're returning to our hometown, it was brought on this ship with so many traps set! What the hell is this thing? Don't tell me it's some demonic stuff? Is that person surveiling our boat? Where? I don't see anything I'm right! There! I'm right! There! Where? How come I don't see anything? Hey! Which bastard are you? How could you hankered after our ship? Fine. Since I don't have a place to vent my anger today, let me teach you a lesson! Dad told me not to act rash. If he found out I'm skilled in martial arts, how do I explain? She doesn't know martial arts. Young Master! Young Master! Are you alright, Miss? Who are you? Why do you come after me? It means you're alright if you can tell me off. I have yet to ask you. What are you doing, circling around our ship? Who's circling your ship? I'm a pearl collector. Didn't you see it? I was collecting pearls. So that was it. Sorry, Miss. I have wronged you. It's fine with just a word of sorry? When you chased me just now, all my pearls dropped out into the water. Small case. How about taking it as I bought all these pearls? So what if you have the money? Can you buy everything with money? What do you want me to do then? What to do? Forget it. I'll take it as my ill luck. But let me tell you this. The next time if you see me, don't ever stop me from collecting pearls again. Or else I won't let you off! You're bleeding, Miss. Where are you staying? I'll carry you home. Carry me? Doesn't sound good. Then can you walk home? Alright then. But you have to be careful. Do not drop me. Don't worry. Slowly. Young Master, Young Master! What are you doing? There's some misunderstanding between me and this lady. Her leg's bleeding so I'm sending her home. Young Master, how could you of noble blood carry someone? Let me do it. That won't do! Men and women should not have physical contact. I'm already feeling troubled to have you carry me. Now you're letting other men to carry me? That's...That's impossible! Alright. Don't mind me. It's just carrying a lady. I can do it. Your bun, sir. Okay. This way please, sir. Take a seat. What would you like to have? Dad! What happened, Wan'er? Careful. Careful. Slowly. Dad. Your daughter was taken as a thief. I almost couldn't come back. What happened? I'm sorry, sir. I accidentally hurt your daughter. Let me know if you want a compensation. I'll do all I can. You've exaggerated, young sir. This girl is pampered since young. Dad! No manners! You must be thirsty after carrying this girl all the way here. Come, have some tea and take a rest. Thank you for your offer, sir. But we still have things to do. Let's go, Young Master. No hurry. We've walked far. It's tiring. Our ship is landing shortly anyway. This way please then, Young Master. Okay. Have a seat, Young Master. I will make a pot of nice tea for you. Alright, thanks! This way please. Is this horse mad? Why can't I control it? No worries. You'll be fine after some time. Let's go back for now. Let's go! Look, sir. Both of you have ruined my tea shop. How can you leave just because you say so? Get lost! Unmindful son of a turtle! Who give you permission to do business here? I have yet to settle that score with you. Dad! how are you? Dad,are you ok? Who are you people? So abominable! Forget about ruining his shop, you're even hitting him? This lass looks quite pretty. How about becoming my wife? Despicable! Despicable? What's so despicable about this? Little girl Look, my teeth are pretty white. Do you want to try and have a kiss? How dare you! Harassing a lady in broad daylight! There are still some customers here. Where did this pretty boy come from? Such nosiness! Aren't you afraid I'll cut you up as well? Try it if you dare. Young Master! You hit me!? Young Master! What should we do? You want to be a hero? I'll let you be a hero!