How to fast. To fast, I mean to abstain from food fast. Let me share with you seven practical steps First and foremost, start with a clear goal. fasting? Is it to come closer to the Lord? To seek in a time right now where you really feel like But what is the reason? What is the purpose? What leading you into this fast? Number two. Prepare your sin. Ask God to open anything in your life from, to open your spiritual eyes. Forgive anybody understand fasting is not to corner God. It's not squeeze something out of God. It's on the with a humble attitude, not, God I'm gonna go come You know, yeah this might work with politics gonna work with almighty God. God looks for the repenting of your sin, seeking His face and spiritually prepare for the fast. So don't just in a month from now I'm gonna fast so then I'm really pursue God, then I'm gonna really turn I'm just gonna do whatever I want. That's not how So there's, you can fast food, you can fast food dairy and meats. Daniel's fast. Some people who need to take medication where they can't fast food know, tv, movies or some kind of a relationships. for the sake of getting closer to God and taking So decide what you're gonna fast. The common way In fact fasting is simply absence of food for fast social media or other things, but what really spiritual reasons. It's highly discouraged to go and food. More than three days can kill you. I it in the Bible supernaturally like Moses, like fasted for three days without food and without bad for your health. actually you're gonna die use discretion and be extremely careful with radical things you don't damage your stomach and how long you're gonna fast? Now there's no twenty one days or fourty days. But these are will put on your heart. Now if you're doing leads you. If you're doing that corporately, then body. Whatever the Lord leads your local church, to really encourage you to take it slow you know. three days and then build yourself up but at the I've never finished a 21 day fast, before I went fast. It was actually this year that this video Lord just prompting to go for 40 days. And so the fasting is not like a physical exercise. It's you will ever do are the ones that are led by the I can tell you one thing is that when it's you Lord leading you into a prolonged fast. When the It's still hard but it's easier. Now when your there's a grace on that, always jump on that. You part of a local church where God put authority, apostles, teachers and evangelists to us to like Esther. Esther declared a three-day fast. Babylon to fast okay, the king of Nineveh declared to hear God, the king just led them. And so when grace for that. But I want to encourage you to how long you should fast and what you should fast fasting. So a few things to keep in mind. You can during fasting okay, so don't be surprised if your but you get nightmares okay. You can come under working, it's provoking the enemy. Being attacked means you have a destiny and so it's okay. common things that people experience is persistent fast and that's why avoiding water can make to decrease your hunger. You can feel tired. If not have fuel and you will feel fatigued, dizzy You know I experience this, where it's one it's another thing when your knees physically had excruciating pain on my knees. For a moment I and this verse clarified that. It wasn't during the night. And so and David says, my knees that. It's not a sign you need to quit. It's when you get a little bit moody and cranky, yeah, gets a little bit of anger in it, a little spice talks about fasting in Leviticus 16:29 as a day a day of fasting but God describes it as a day I was like I don't get it. I know fasting My soul, afflicting my soul through fasting? don't know what that means you know. What takes orders from your body instead of your during fasting because now the body is dying, the getting all the direction from the spirit. And that happens. So fasting is not just good for fasting is also helping your soul to figure out is. The Holy Spirit is. And another thing that realize why they get so cranky and moody is to food. Food for some people is a crutch. It's negative emotions. Some people go to the bottle don't drink, they eat. They over eat and they emotionally bored, they're emotionally not doing they gain dependence, unhealthy dependence on being overweight, feeling not good about yourself spiritual cure for emotional problems and fasting to face that and you will have to rewire your solution, the Holy Spirit is. Your comfort is the great comforter. Another thing that happens is headaches. It's one of the things that you a lot of coffee or caffeine you're gonna have a sign the demon is attacking you. It's just lot of soda and a lot of caffeine in your body. normal. Drink a lot of water. The best way that start decreasing your caffeine intake before the hit with all of the headaches all at once. Another is lack of focus during fasting. When you're tired school and at work. And so I really want to when you see the benefits. You know the three it's good but it's the one that you go longer cravings shut down, where your mental alertness through the roof. It's just beautiful. It's like just kind of gone. The only hunger is like mental, you need to eat but your body is actually doing and it's a really really beautiful, beautiful and about how to fast. Is replace eating with reading stop everything they're doing okay and go to the even recommend you to do that. Why? Because the Meaning God's like do normal stuff, go about your us to completely withdraw from everything that encourage you is the time that you would normally you would normally relax, set the time to be with browse through the phone or maybe watch something or unwind, that you get into the secret room. free time that you have had, with time with watching sermons and fasting and just being in to enter into a fast slowly and to exit the fast it depends of course on what kind of fast. If eating the full meal after that, that's fine. If afterwards probably not gonna die but you're slowly with like a chicken broth or you know the something that is very slow so that you don't fasted for seven days or ten days on water only In fact God is watching at how you exiting during the fast because that gluttony, that really surfaces on exiting the fast than during died after the fast. Not because God took him but 40 days and died. Like physically died because he who just ate a little bit of meat you know, almost Some who developed ulcers in their stomach prolonged fast not properly and so be very careful condition or something don't attempt fasting mom don't do fasting without consulting a doctor. other times to fast but at this season you might so you can focus more on the Lord. Drop it in your experience with fasting. I know it's a what's the longest that you did and how was it? fasting? As always don't forget to hit like family share it on your social media and don't Click on the bell so you can be reminded