It's December 2012. Jagex have just released a new Grandmaster players are loving it. "The Brink of Extinction" rocks our world; combat lovers are happy with a new, harder Well, they're in for a treat. During the quest, the player grabs a series written in the old language, and has them talk to via the communication orb. It's kind of like a cell phone, if you've Anyway, the bookcases reveal some extremely Epic tales from the Elder Kiln, the history heard about until now. Each time we move forward and have something only gets more and more intriguing. So as we approach the last bookcase, wondering We find the communication orb isn't within have Mej-Jeh translate for us. We can't copy the tablet, and the TzHaar connection can't be fixed. So close, and yet so far. The players take to the forums and ask if They wouldn't add it if there was no way And sure enough, a J-Mod replies, saying "Yes The hunt is on. Hello RuneScape, Will Miss It here with a The mystery we're about to look into is I wasn't there for. Unfortunately, 2013 was a time when the Runescape which this video revolves around, spent most That means there's a very limited amount mostly forum posts. But don't worry, I've done my research, little bit better, you'll have to deal with A few days have passed since Brink of Extinction's Content Developer Mod Stu arrives at the office He sits down at this computer, turns it on, Wait, sorry, force of habit. He goes to the "Recent He wants a cheeky gander at what everyone One thing catches his eye - the forum is getting Odd. Then he notices why - there are several posts The final bookcase. Everyone is digging for clues, trying to find Uh oh. That's awkward. See, there isn't a way to translate it. The J-Mod who said there was had misunderstood, lead. But the engagement is huge. With no end to the threads and theories, Stu them what they want. But here's the big issue: Christmas holidays at Jagex that he needs to work on. Contrary to what some people think, the developers make stuff to appease the community on short So, the clue hunters will have to wait. No one at Jagex corrects the mistake, so none chasing is a fictional one - for now, anyway. Through Christmas, the hunt continues. People come together on one world to make World 100 is devoured by hungry lorehounds, their theories between them. Come hell or high water, they're going to Mod Stu returns to Jagex after a lovely little He turns on his computer, opens the forums, if it seems like they've hit a dead end. But Stu finally has some time on his hands. He stretches his fingers, warms up, and gets they wanted. It was time to get to work. In just one hour, Mod Stu had pumped out the the "Wandering Ga'al". With a solution so fiendish that they wouldn't and a lore bomb reward so amazing that they He hit release. Hidden alongside other content in the middle had a solution. Mod Stu could now sit back and relax, and What Stu had come up with was simple on paper: two items. First, a Ring of Visibility: a lot of hidden sense that his invisible NPC would be too. Next, a Ring of Stone. The Ga'al is made of stone, right? So that makes sense. Although, the players did have the whole holidays That might be too simple, and someone might Ol' Stu didn't want to be caught out. So he added a final requirement: a number of the current Runedate divided by 10. This also meant the exact number needed would not work a few days later. Obviously, this also makes sense, right? Now, this may come as a surprise, but the Theories ranged from something to do with over 2 billion coins. Some believed it had to do with talking to much every important NPC in the game. Maybe the order you spoke to them mattered? Better do it again, just to be sure. Others thought that they must have missed and re-did it on alt accounts. Good idea, it's not like the quest had high And everyone tried anything and everything based. If the solution wasn't there, surely there'd With chaos unfolding and the lorehounds running clucking minds, Mod Stu stepped in on one "Think outside of the box". The silence had been broken, a J-Mod had spoken. A hint! We had a hint! But... This didn't help much. I mean, in terms of puzzles, telling people step up from saying "have you tried not So on the first of March 2013, Mod Stu returned an additional hint about the Communication But not too much help. If he wanted to make things easy, he wouldn't after all. Over 700 comments and 11 days later, the players Ring of Visibility. Stu was inspired. The players had solved a part of the puzzle, A third and final hint was given, reinforcing City, and can only be seen under special circumstances The players were obviously not getting it. Wait, what was the first hint? Think outside the "box". Box. Three letters. What has three letters? Jad. Jad is fought using protection prayers. Prayers? The third hint said "have faith". What else has three letters? Sub. Subscribe to Will Miss It? WMI. No - ZMI. The ZMI Altar. Oh my god, we have to bring a Pet Jad to the for us. Surprisingly, this wasn't the solution. Desperate for any help they could get, the in search of thoughts from those who were The Redditors suggested a lot of helpful things. How about the Animate Rock Spell, from One Earth Elementals from the Elemental Workshop? Have you tried NPC Contact? All of these ideas were shot down by jaded Redditors would dare to suggest anything without on the forums first. The only real lead they gained was from some in the Quickchat: Jal'yt-ga'al-kot, listed Jal'yt meant human, the ga'al were a type What could this mean altogether, though? Despite their best efforts, they still had Together, the entirety of the lorehound community a bounty for whoever solved the puzzle - and an additional 5 million if the solution was But no matter the incentive, there was still The players were starting to get frustrated. Maybe this was just one big early April Fools Maybe there was no solution at all. And even if there was... the players were With no solution or progress in sight, it What was the point anymore? Mod Stu saw the frustration. As a content developer, the last thing he themselves. Maybe the Obsidian Shards had been too much. Wanting to keep the players engaged, he stepped On the 4th of April 2013, Mod Stu made a new more hints, in the form of 20 questions. Weekly, the players could decide on what they at the time. Weekly questions went from several questions daily. On the 14th of may, the largest hint of them "My log saw something, carried on an igneous accessory. Igneous, meaning rock. Tithe, meaning one tenth of. And the log, that could be any in-game log. Oak, Willow... or maybe not a set of logs It only took a few hours for the hunters to in-game Captain's Log from Player Owned Which lists today's Runedate in it. So, a tenth of that... And the technicolour accessory was quickly could be recolored from the Loyalty store. This cryptic hint was all that they needed. Stu had basically given the game away. Only hours later, Hankmeister was the first Ga'al. Fair play to the Lorehounds there. I mean, "My log saw something, carried on What sort of madman looks at that and goes They say there's a fine line between brilliance have pushed a few people way past it. But nevertheless, the hunt was finally over. Over the next few hours, the news spread that Ga'al had finally been solved. And when I said Stu had planted a lore bomb I wasn't kidding. That bookcase contained some juicy stuff. It's the first time we hear the name of The Elder God Jas' purpose is established. And the Elder Kiln's original purpose is The lorehounds are all in awe and go to bed And what Hankmeister did with his 27 million Maybe he invested it. Maybe he spent it on his skills. Maybe he blew it all on blackjack on hookers. Hey, I know I would. I hope you all enjoyed this brief look into We'll be back again next week with another - I'm looking forward to seeing you there. My name is Will Miss It and goodbye!