&quot;Artificial wombs...&quot; &quot;Being tested on lambs...&quot; &quot;The future of pregnancy&quot; &quot;Straight out of science fiction...&quot; &quot;I think I was really overwhelmed...&quot; &quot;The birth of human life!&quot; &quot;So, I'm about to go into surgery...&quot; &quot;I'm not so sure I'm excited for labor...&quot; &quot;AHHH--&quot; Ohhhhkay. This isn't a normal explainer video... But I don't actually know that It all started a few months ago with a Twitter Basically, Elon Musk tweeted something this investor mentioned artificial wombs... &quot;why would we want those?" and then the founder of Ethereum said "because all hell broke loose. Some people LOVED this idea, I was skeptical, but I wanted to understand. So I did what I do, I started making [SIGH] But I was about to get a And for you to really understand what "The scariest thing that she said was that This is me finding out - in the middle of I needed to have surgery in order to preserve Suddenly the thing I was researching &quot;Are you ready?&quot; &quot;Yes&quot; And after all of it, I came to a conclusion I'd totally use an artificial womb. [Heartbeat] Whaaat! I'm having my mind blown. This is Dr. Jacob Hanna. And THIS is his artificial womb... for mice. "So I definitely see the heartbeat... Where do I see the head and the legs?" Dr Hanna: &quot;The head is on the other side. This moment is wild. Dr Hanna and his team have done something "Until our study, you can grow mouse embryos outside the uterus." Nothing new, we've been growing human embryos It's the basis of IVF, where doctors remove with sperm in a lab, and then place the embryo But Dr. Hanna's team was focusing on the What they wanted to know was: Is it possible "It was always thought that the uterus is the correct formation of these organs..." But they proved, for the first time, that can happen in an artificial environment. This is a major leap. But this headline is a bit of a leap too... We're nowhere CLOSE to artificial wombs For one thing, Dr. Hanna's study covers to get from embryo to baby. There are other studies - you might've heard The video is kind of terrifying. "They took it about two-thirds of the pregnancy This is long after the organs were formed, The quest for artificial wombs doesn't look It looks like the slow movement of science. A few weeks here, a new study there... and I doubt we'll see anything like this in And lots of people are juuuuust fine &quot;It's very easy to be led off track by the slightly &quot;Lots of concern for the idea of science &quot;If technology replaces traditional childbirth who controls its use?&quot; So I've been deep in this debate, and it really this (if we could do it) does On the side of "more harm,&quot; This is a big distraction. There's way more important stuff we should for parents - parental leave, affordable childcare Or you might think artificial wombs could how people have kids or &quot;This means you could manufacture Or you might think pregnancy We could never replicate that connection with &quot;If you are frightened of an we got some competition now!&quot; &quot;There's going to be a dispute about Or, on the "more good" side, you might think: Childbirth kills 800+ women around Or, you might think There's evidence to suggest the wage gap is policy changes could also help change that, Or you might say, bearing children is painful. On surveys, roughly 30% - 45% of women say &quot;An artificial womb is like a dream &quot;This will change the lives of many people.&quot; I feel pretty conflicted. On the one hand, I think it's pretty cool that (Probably, I haven't tried). And on the other hand... I think I want biological kids, but... I'm not sure I want to be pregnant. &quot;Push!&quot; &quot;PUSH!&quot; &quot;Keep pushing!&quot; &quot;AHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!&quot; I do feel like if men had to, you know, miss months of work and just have more pregnancy thing then we might have I don't know. But all of that aside, here what This whole debate is framed as when 1) even the most extreme version of and 2) it turns out that artificial womb research There are three big reasons we need artificial long before the whole &quot;artificial womb" thing: One: We can help more premature babies survive. In my lifetime, look at this, we have taken To do that, we're constantly developing moms and babies, like new kinds of &quot;If they get born prematurely you could &quot;giving extremely premature babies an &quot;they could breath the fluid, just like &quot;could save the lives of premature babies.&quot; No matter what you call them, all these that's going to help us let babies Two: Growing organs for organ transplants. I don't mean the kind of "Never Let Me Go" style, I mean just growing independent organs. Right now, there are 106,285 people on the That number has gone up since I And 17 people die every day waiting But depending on the organ, anywhere from This is the problem that Dr Hanna is "Let's say I'm a patient that I have a liver One day the dream is that I will give a drop that has liver cells and transplant it back. No need to find donors. The DNA is completely identical, so rejection So this is the holy grail. This is the idea, His research is teaching us about organ development, save more people's lives. And three: We still have a lot to learn about It's hard to study humans, or any mammal, Yes, we have ultrasounds, and we also have procedures but none of this is anything like just Hold on, let me find some of These are zebra fish embryos, which are used for some simple reason: We can look at them! "Because the embryo grows outside the uterus, Now we can do this, for some parts of That's huge. "The uterus for us is a black box. This is very limiting, 'cause we don't We would like to look at the same And now that we can do this in you know, just this is possible." All of this is possible. It doesn't really matter if we get to Yeahhhhh. I changed my mind about that. Here's where things got My mom: &quot;Well maybe some slightly &quot;go over all the points that you've &quot;I think you really should talk to &quot;it's not surprising, Cleo, this is why...&quot; &quot;I think I was just...&quot; &quot;You heard this scary news, and The scariest thing that she said My mom: "This is going to be okay, Yeah. "Did you need me to say that? I... Thanks, Mom. I did need to hear that. Thank you. I did not really want to be So I went to the doctor today. I had about a month ago... I had a very severe pain in what, a little bit lower, like my uterus. It was very very severe, like I was lying The next day I got in to see a doctor and It's not the cute kind where you're about you put it on your stomach. They stick something up into you. And then they look around. And what they saw was that on my left ovary, Usually these things go away. So they said come back in a month to six weeks. So I went to this doctor today, and she found cysts on the left side. Good job, this guy over here. This... gal, they're probably gals... This one's doing great. This one, not so great. What she thinks is happening when I'm a little bit heavier because of these cysts, She was very worried that if it twisted too flow to my ovary and I could lose And so she recommended that I have surgery, God, I hope this works out. Um, you're just watching me cope, basically. You're watching me have a health problem and All right. I will report back later. So, it's later. And I'm having surgery tomorrow. I got the pictures from my doctor, if but you can actually see there are That cyst is 5 centimeters in it's 6.3 inches in circumference. I was imagining these things Actually, hold on a sec... I just wanna know what I'm This is 5.5 inches. What the [BLEEEP]?? I have one cyst that's slightly larger than this, both on the same side on my ovary, here. I don't have room for this!! So tomorrow, they're gonna remove these They're going to go in laparoscopically my belly button and three incisions They seem large to me but they're small I'm gonna have some scars from this. And in order to see what they're doing, (Don't google this. Then they're gonna remove the cysts and I'm not looking forward to this. But I also don't want to lose my ovary. So. I'm about to go through something pretty for my ability to bear biological kids. Women go through this all the time. Right now as I'm recording this, someone their health in order to preserve their And, I gotta say having even just this happen to me puts into perspective any technology Here we go. So I'm about to go into surgery... I've never had general anesthesia before but I know what's gonna happen and &quot;Are you ready?&quot; &quot;Yes.&quot; Look at all my gadgets! Everything's fine, it went really well! Hi. So it's two weeks after surgery and I'm ok! I'm definitely feeling sore I am walking like an old person still but I feel pretty good. I'm also really lucky. I needed this surgery, for my health and [SIGH] I also learned a lot. I didn't really understand how scary of getting pregnant was at risk. I think I probably said I didn't "I'm not sure that I want to be pregnant..." Now I know that I want the option. I caught a glimpse of how devastating And people go through that all the time. Also... I just went through a not-so-insignificant surgery... and a not totally insignificant for the potential privilege... for a lot more pain later!! Like... !!! Pregnancy is incredibly hard. And we humans have it particularly bad. We walk on two legs, so we have narrow hips. We have large brains, so we have huge heads. For us, giving birth is a painful, medically &quot;Labor is nothing like you've ever experienced!&quot; &quot;My labor at the end of the day &quot;So I had stitches going out &quot;My stomach is still, the skin is still stretched out &quot;From the moment I set foot in the hospital &quot;My hair loss! Oh my goodness! And because I know this, you have to also: What the *BLEEP*! If you get pregnant yourself, it doesn't matter, SOMEBODY has to go through That can be beautiful. And it can be brutal. I'm in awe of people who have had kids. We talk about this as though it's normal but... I don't think it should have to be. I know that I want the option, but I think that's what The idea that the only thing between us and discomfort of millions of women a year... Like... really?? There's isn't any other way we could, in other ways, or stop it from happening? Really?? Again, if this were men... ??? !! We use technology to reduce risk and pain We set impossible goals. I mean, we sent humans to the MOON. Where is the moonshot to make it easier I've come to think we need one... Yes, for all the benefits the research can provide AND for a vision of a future where our kids, and less risk, and less pain. We've been here before. IVF was extremely controversial. The Vatican called it immoral. Some in the US government tried to constrain A member of the British Parliament said it But when I was doing this research, I found this quote from a doctor at the time He said: "There is an obligation to relieve or in the absence of the means, I think we should do that. I think we should search, and keep searching.