Transcriber: Mohammed Basheer So, I want to get you all and we are going to test out but in order for me to do that, and join me on the stage. So please, can I have a volunteer? Don't all run at once. So, you can come We can have a little cup of tea together. Anyone? Come on! You just come up, whoever wants, Someone has to come up, and there are volunteers down here, Oh, here's somebody. (Applause) It's a bit of an obstacle course, I think, but I promise it's worth it. (Laughter) Poor person. Woo, thank you. What's your name? Volunteer: Ian. Carrie Green: Ian, thank you so much Ian I have something for you, There you go, thank you so much, A big round of applause! (Applause) So, my question to you is this: Why didn't you volunteer? What stopped you from coming up here? (Laughter) My guess is that was probably Fear. Fear of coming up here in front It's pretty damn scary. Or maybe it was fear of the unknown, what I was going to get you to do. Maybe you thought, &quot;She might ask me to do something and I'll look like a complete prat.&quot; Or maybe it was because of obstacles. There are a lot of obstacles in this room. Maybe you're at the back, &quot;I'm so far away, it's dark, I'll probably fall over some and I just can't do it, someone else will have Or maybe it was just lack of motivation. Maybe you just couldn't be bothered But no matter what your reason was, in your mind. Because the moment I said, Thoughts will have started That little voice inside your head and maybe for some of you, it was saying, &quot;Oh god, what is this girl I don't want to go up there, please, don't make us do And then, maybe for some other people, maybe for some other maybe down at the front you were like, &quot;Oh gosh, I don't want avoid eye contact, avoid eye contact, And then maybe for some of you &quot;Please, can I have a volunteer?&quot; Maybe, fear, doubts, and worry at the prospect of actually of coming up here in front And then, for those of you you were thinking You were thinking things maybe like, I wonder what she's going to get us to do, Or maybe some of you thought, &quot;Oh my gosh this is really awkward, so I'm going to have to step up and do it&quot; But for those of you you missed out on the chance to win PS20. But this experiment isn't about the money. This experiment demonstrates The fact that what is going on has such a huge impact on on the decisions you make, And it's not just in silly when people miss out People are missing out on incredible because of what is going on their head, because they are making bad decisions You know, those kind &quot;I can't do that&quot;, &quot;I'm not good enough&quot;, or, &quot;I don't have the time or the money&quot;. Or maybe it's that you think, &quot;I can't be bothered; But then, you never do it, and so these wonderful ideas, stay locked up inside, and that is exactly what was happening It was the summer of 2005, my full first year of law I had completely run out of money, So I started to look around for jobs, and I was looking around and found So, I was looking around and eventually found this opportunity. It was to start my very own which basically meant and it was locked to a certain network, and say you want to go and use an Australian sim card, you could come to the website There were just a few massive first, I didn't know beyond the fact that they let alone mobile phone unlocking. And I had no idea how to build But the only other opportunity so I was like sell sweets or start my own business. So, I went with the idea it sounded a way more adventurous. So, I got started, that when you don't have the only thing you can do So, I asked for help and within I put together probably I discovered Google AdWords and with a credit card my business was officially up and running. Then over the next couple of years, I was learning how to build this business; I was reading books, I was listening to audio programs, and in my final year, to learn more about web development. I graduated in 2007 and a business that was flying. And I decided that being an entrepreneur was going to be way more fun So I set my sights high - to take the business global - to build a successful global business. So, we got a new supplier based in America who can unlock practically We redid the website, we got real good at online marketing, and within a few years, we were receiving over 100 000 hits And we were selling thousands and I had reached my goal But there was one massive problem. I was miserable. I was running this business where I lived in an apartment; my second And I felt completely lonely, Something that I think but not very many of us talk about. And I crumbled. I started to question everything What am I doing? What is the point of all of this? The more I thought about those And the more confused I felt, the more these negative thoughts the more I began to doubt everything, and just question everything. And as the months rolled by, more and more self-defeatist, and literally, this positive optimistic had just disappeared. I'd become totally negative I'd come up with ideas, I'd shoot them down, Then it got to 2010 and I felt like And so I packed my bags in the hope of having an epiphany. Spent three months traveling and I was just like: So then I came back to the UK, and well, because all of my problems and the weather was rubbish. Then I was like, &quot;What am I going to do?&quot; So the next few months, I found myself you know where you feel like and these worries I'd come up with ideas, and I'd just talk myself out of it, And then finally, in 2011, And I believe I was going wrong the first reason was that and quite frankly, doesn't every single person But mobile phone unlocking At the time, I was reading this book and in &quot;The E-Myth&quot;, Michael Gerber says: sat in the room, and as you walk down the center And as you get to the front of the room and it's your funeral. And he says, &quot;What kind of things about the kind of life that you lived, about the kind of person that you were, and the kind of things that you achieved?&quot; And I realized, I had no idea. So there was no wonder I had never ever been on track And the second reason is because of what was going on up here; All these doubts, all these worries, I came across a quote &quot;Your destiny is determined by the choices And I realized that I was I was responsible for the fact I remember looking at my life thinking and focusing on my problems. I am waking up every day and giving to all of these awful thoughts, I am coming up with ideas I am talking myself out of doing And I realized that if I wanted and achieve amazing things, that I had to get my mind to be I realized that I had to figure out why I was wanted to achieve it, I had to figure out the kind of person in order to make it happen. And then, I had to program I had to program my mind for success. And that is exactly what I ended up doing, &quot;Mission Success&quot; began. And so I started this off by thinking And so I looked at my life and I thought, I love coming up with ideas it is so much fun.&quot; And then looked &quot;I feel really lonely and lost And I looked at them with Rather than feeling bad about it, There must be other people out there that So I came up with this idea to create and it sounded so official. And I was doing it, I would create this global network of thousands of women and help to inspire them and connect them and just help to empower them But I had no idea, Then I was like, &quot;Right, I need to program So I started by becoming consciously aware of the things I was thinking every day, and whenever I caught myself &quot;Carrie, who is going to come Who are you to give advice to anyone? This is rubbish, you're never going to be able to do it.&quot; Every time I caught myself saying and I realized that I had the power rather than letting them control me. I knew that I could stop myself And I did, I replaced the negative rubbish and told them to shut up, and I replaced them with positive thoughts that were actually helping me I also started to listen to program my subconscious And I got really into doing visualizations vividly picturing what I wanted and then feeling it happen, like just like all the top athletes do. I got so clear on what and since then my life I've built one of the largest online with over 100 000 women involved. And then I came up with this crazy which then became the fastest growing When I created it, I made of all the people I wanted these best-selling authors, I had no idea how I would make it happen, I then put their faces printed them off and stuck them and just visualized them visualized what it would I'd send out an email to my network. And I could say to them, this person's on the front cover I got so unbelievably clear People would come up to me and say, &quot;How are you going I was like, &quot;I don't know, And it did happen, So then I thought, &quot;What other crazy goals What else is possible?&quot; So I set more crazy goals for myself. I was like, &quot;I want to go I want to go to the House of Lords, And I set more crazy goals for myself. And last year every single one And I realized that if I could that I could make something happen, that somehow I would figure out Because success is no accident. Living an incredible life is no accident. You have to do it on purpose. and it starts by knowing exactly knowing why you want to achieve it, knowing the kind of person that you and then programming Because you just have one life that you are going to achieve, Thank you so much. (Applause)