Good morning guys from Ljubljana, new to our channel, welcome! We are year traveling around Europe and seeing couple days in Ljubljana so we kind of want to see and we're going to take you so special, so let's go! Now on our way to get coffee, we had to I'm not even going to try to pronounce butcher it, so I'm gonna put it right because it is absolutely gorgeous. As usual, coffee comes first or I guess shop yesterday and it looked really good Supposedly in the back there's also like more incentive to go and check it out. I'm not sure if you can see it from here, but under there. [Hannah] Are we sure that's not a giant rat. Okay, enough of the Muskrat. Let's go explore If you're unfamiliar with Ljubljana, it's The heart of the town and, I suppose you right in the middle of its Old Town. Bank of the Ljubljanica River and beneath and layout of the Old Town dates back to current influence and outline from the which is perfect for walking tours, cafe the ambiance. Like most cities around going to feel the personality of a city Right in the center of Old Town is the dedicated to Saint Nicholas and was century, but has since been replaced by a the most beautiful that I've seen, but A lot of times you can get a real sense of the energy of a city by visiting its the Dolac Market is open-aired and just taking in the atmosphere. But then little bit chaotic, it's very fast-paced had ever experienced. Here in Ljubljana the riverbank in Old Town. It's got an as well as... fish, breads, and pretty much anything dessert. I think it's a Slovenian... desperate to try so we're gonna try it. Which is like a traditional Slovenian The hazelnuts are like... ground up, so it's like crunchy nuts. You want to try? [Trey] It's very different! thought it would be but it'd be perfect don't have time for that right now. We we've already spent enough time in the these European cities. You can spend a further adieu... The Central Market sits there's a really cool bridge next to it Dragon Bridge and it's one of those and not visit. The bridge was built in largest bridges of its kind in Europe. As as the Dragon City and I think it might Ljubljana is considered the greenest to the fact of how well they recycle, ton of trees so I'm just going to assume of the largest parks in the city and has mini golf course, as well as restaurants in a minute. I am so hungry right now I whole horse. I am so skeptical but first impressions, They asked me if I wanted onions on my So as I've hinted at multiple times we Park. What makes this place different use horse meat. Now I'm not going to get It's a delicacy here in Ljubljana. That's embrace new cultures and try new things gonna try a horse and see how it is. Only It's different. Hannah's gonna hate it. [laughing] This is why we went on this trip is to it comes to food and this is a little It's different. I think it's more of a flavor though. It tastes like a turkey easy comparison. It's interesting. Alright guys, that's enough horsing around for the afternoon. Now we're heading back more. perfect example that I just have no ever. [Laughing] we have to cross a bridge so this time Preseren Square and cross the Triple Church of the Annunciation or what we're going to refer to as the noticeable building in the Square. It's a different look from just about every across the square underneath the Castle not two, but three bridges which begs the Hopefully I get this right, but if I let me know and correct me in the one bridge that was made of wood the called the old bridge. This existed until made of stone. Now fast forward to 1929, bridge while also adding two additional traffic in the area because, as we said center of town. These bridges were 2007 along with most of the Old Town. Alright guys, time for the crown jewel but first we gotta get to it. The story of our life. have pictures of the castle so we just So, I think it's a good idea to hike up and, you know, get to the castle the old spell funicular without 'fun' so I'm just Maybe next time It was 10 euros to get up here but that gets you access to the Museum of Slovenian history and there are also a there's a jazz club too. So once you're for Ljubljana Castle, it dates back to the the city so that's the biggest reason What is this? There's gaps? What is this nonsense? [Laughing] [Hannah] You have a beautiful 360deg view of the is just breathtaking. I made it. This is documentation. I made Beautiful views. I'm getting out of here. It was crazy beautiful. entire process of getting up to the top, the climb and the admission and leaving the castle a little bit earlier to get a little dicey here soon so we're totally sure where we're gonna go it's you'll find out soon. [Hannah] Our goal tonight is without paying a ton of money, so we have headed to is called Klobasarna and mentions it. Klobasarna is famous for its Carniolan sausage I couldn't for the but it was once a province of the large portion of Slovenia in it. As we here so we felt like we had to try it. of cheap, it's pretty affordable. And we dessert. [Hannah] I'm so excited about this. three different kinds? I'm not even gonna what because I have no idea, but we're Ooo, look how warm it is! That one is definitely the, My dad would love that. Next one. I might thing on there though. cottage cheese. That one's nice. I like than the other ones. The other ones are These bites are so big. [Laughing] That one tastes like Christmas. When trying to find something to wrap wine, beer, or gelato place that would [Trey] The Ljubljanica River cuts through the restaurants, bars, and really pretty Ljubljana though. It doesn't really have it. It's smaller than most European the prettiest we've seen thus far. The like a secret compared to the rest of secret for too long. Um it's about to rain. Oh it is raining! Yeah we're gonna try to get out of the