In one of his most beloved songs, French-Armenian singer, you must drink up your youth Fifteen-year-old Yuri I'm happy when I'm behind the wheel. I love cars, This teenager drives without a care Normally, there isn't much risk. However, today there's snow on the road Yuri didn't borrow It was his father who asked It's hard to say Nothing's going to happen to me. If the police want to arrest me, I usually know where Despite his questionable driving skills, the 15-year-old boy but the task is not as simple as it seems. In Armenia, vehicles run on natural gas, and the refueling system Of course, it's dangerous Cars that run on gasoline are much safer, In fact, natural gas Natural gas tanks in trucks but those in cars especially when the trunk The problem is that To the side, a tanker truck is refilling The air reeks of gas, and yet... We have to turn off the faucet. Move back. Why? Is there a leak? Suddenly, aware of the danger, Yes, okay, I'm not going to light it. If there's a spark, we'd be done for, Over the years, the Armenians Armenia is one of the most isolated and its terrain is very complex. Its roads are surrounded by mountains, so transporting goods is a real struggle. The snow is too soft, The deplorable state of the road network is partly due to the corruption Calling on a higher power to get a vehicle out of trouble. Oh my God, What are we going They are hungry, thirsty, The economic difficulties experienced are also largely due to the country's After the collapse of the Soviet Union, but the country The Turkish border dating back that the Turks refused to acknowledge. The border with Azerbaijan is also closed. Nowadays, it even constitutes between the two countries. Every year, the clashes between They're fighting an area majorly populated by Armenians. The border between Armenia but the roads are catastrophic. As a result, via the main road leading to Iran. Despite all these difficulties, there is only one phrase Come on, we'll get there. As the first nation legend states that In their fallen paradise, the Armenians never losing their determination. In the Nagorno-Karabakh mountains, With almost 40 miles of mountain terrain It's a sharp descent. After spending countless hours Amir, and his co-pilot Armen, What are you doing, Armen? You're poisoning me with your cigarette. I only eat organic food, our milk, Even my meat, do you hear me? Even my meat is organic. You with your cigarette, It's bad for you too. If I lose concentration for one second, the van will plummet into the ravine, Okay, I am shifting into first gear. We are going to go This slope is very scary. The fear of the ravine These are hairpin curves I have to do several Look, there's no bridge, Their village is an aerie. Situated at an altitude of 2,000 meters, the snaking roads leading up to it The slope is really steep. My van skids, and slides about Going up is a real problem. My van frequently breaks down, What kind of vehicle Here lies the forgotten village Their main source of excitement Armen is from Russia. He only came to Zar later in life. When the USSR collapsed in 1991, so he left his job as a French teacher, and moved to Nagorno-Karabakh Now they work as livestock farmers, but Irina still misses her life in Moscow. Our farm doesn't produce enough food. For example, which is a shame because eggs We don't have any flour either, In winter, It's not easy to sustain ourselves. Do you see this knife? I show it to the hen and I tell her to give me an egg Very quickly I get eggs. I do the same thing with the cow. I tell her to give me As for Armen, he has no regrets. He's glad to be away from modern life, In this remote village, solidarity A shot of homemade vodka On this particular day... We have to finish it, The two friends We're not going to let it go to waste. What a great meal. This is our fuel, We're the ones in control of the vodka, Strong in mind and body. We drink but we don't get drunk, The car can race, the driver's an ace and the copilot knows how to set the pace. Luckily for them, but tomorrow Ninety percent of Armenian territory Traveling through the mountains but in winter, Even small distances After selling Arman, and his father It's only a three-mile journey, and their old Russian Zhiguli Here we go. Look at our roads, What a nightmare! Arman, quickly gains momentum. His tires are smooth. Looking at the state of the road ahead, I think it's best I go In anticipation Arman left his tractor The fear of stalling makes him go straight back. I'm using the car battery Aman's father, Savan, used to work When he retired, The two men Get in, put the car With so much effort and little reward, the elderly gentleman asks himself daily We waste so much time. These awful roads damage the car, We don't earn much as it is. This is our life, It takes them two hours and they've been lucky. Sometimes it takes them the whole day. Unfortunately, This time they can't rely It has broken down. The two men All throughout Armenia, These carcasses remind danger is never far off. This truck just fell 15 meters. The engine is unsalvageable. As for its owner, he miraculously made it out When I fell into the ravine, However, the road isn't the only culprit. Armenia is overrun with trucks This particular truck Look at your tires, Look at the state of your truck, It was dark and foggy. I must have accidentally dozed off The roads in Armenia are horrible. The Armenian government is trying but the funds are lacking. When Armenia its economy flourished. The Russians transformed However, today the rusty skeletons They are reminders These textile factories and the zinc mines ran at full capacity. The economy is slowly However, almost a third are currently living We're freezing, it's very cold. These men aren't the only ones I'm pouring hot water into it because the engine The truck might not be able to make There's nothing like a hot meal Especially, since none of these men I'm a building engineer, in my field. Let's raise a glass to this meeting, and to prosperity These men are engineers, but all of them are unemployed. There's no work left in the mountains, so they were forced to join the logging industry. Before working here, I have been driving but the job is almost finished. Logging is a seasonal profession. It's hard work, but pays well, However, the money Their old Russian truck There's no guarantee The truck has six drive wheels, The tires are completely worn out. I'm torturing my truck for no reason. I'm going to turn around. The guys will have to go up on foot. They will roll the wood Now the men in zero degree temperatures to reach the tree The nightmare begins. It's slippery here Getting new tires is impossible, The men could give up, keeps them going. It's the same here Every person in our village Everyone is in debt. People struggle to sleep at night because they wonder how We have no other choice but to do this. Even a professional athlete What's more, we have to lug He's right, even professional athletes All that effort for nothing. No way, the trunk is hollow. If it were a healthy tree, we would've harvested There are barely two cubic meters here. We're going to push They will roll all the way to the truck. Cutting down another tree would help but it's best not to give in The Armenian forests are endangered. Due to over-exploitation, To prevent deforestation, anyone caught chopping or collecting risks being fined. Look, it's stuck, Little by little, in hope of finding but that's not all. Many are trying their luck abroad. If we were in Russia, Emigration has become a national problem. Since its independence in 1991, more than a million Armenians According to a study if the situation continues, Armenia will lose in the next 50 years. This morning in Nagorno-Karabakh, Armen and Amir They didn't expect the temperature The weather immediately brings Two months ago, He had just enough time to jump out I was really scared after the accident. Thankfully God decided We used to have three cars in the village, How are we going to manage? However, the most important thing Armen's van is now used Amir's vehicle may require. Shall I take it apart? How old is your UAZ? It's old, It's a good thing too, because today, the two friends from the village into town, It's payday today There's no shop in our village. We don't even have running water. Did you remove the wedge? You have to wake up before 6:00 AM Otherwise, it's undrinkable. After midday, it's dirty and full of mud. Life is difficult for these inhabitants, The wheel will be used You can sit down, I put that jacket down Two hours sat on a tire, comfort is a relative concept, and that's without factoring Don't cry, my darling, and buy you some sweets. Don't be scared, sweetie, they don't bite. The grocery shop is 60 miles away. It's not very far, but in Armenia, It's always better If my van breaks down, We always help each other out, The passengers sooner than expected. Don't be scared, Be brave, my darlings. Come on, we're going to make it. I don't have enough power. There are several uphill slopes and my engine is really struggling. The entire journey is like this. It's all uphill and downhill. I can't remember Even on a downhill slope because the road is too dangerous. Look, this road is made of clay. The vehicle skids from right to left. If I'm not careful, I need to pace myself at the wheel I'm trying my best. I'm going this way because the snow I prefer to cut across the fields. Cutting across the field While Amir tries to make it at the same time, almost 200 miles away, are preparing to take These two potato farmers to get them there safely. We have had this car It still drives well, Thanks to this car, We can drive into town. Without it, This Russian vehicle comes from a time the seventies. Arman wouldn't trade it for anything, although a 4x4 It would be great to have a pickup truck. However, we can't afford one. A pickup truck, that's the dream. Watch out for the rocks, As soon as it rains, there are landslides. If I want to get past, I have to move the rocks myself. A few years ago, enormous rocks fell down, We were cut off from the rest This isn't a road, It looks deep. I enquired about this road yesterday. My friends told me that It must have gotten worse overnight. I don't know if we'll be able to get past. A few days ago, the stormy waves I think the middle section Look at that van. The problem is that we could get stuck and wreck the battery. Some drivers are going all in, while the pedestrians He's the king of the forest. However, some of the risk takers The water came in through the air vents. See if you can make a few sparks. After witnessing this feat, Arman believes there's a chance We'll make it. With a bit of luck, we'll get through. In any case, We're not turning back now, As long as the engine doesn't quit. Once again, Arman's old Zhiguli proves Here are your potatoes as promised, Mamie. I'm really happy He works very hard to grow his potatoes, I really enjoy them. As soon as I get my pension, I'll pay you. Don't worry about it, Mamie. I don't have any children left. One of them died in the war, I use the money from my pension Anoush is one of the last She's watched it slowly empty out In reality, In 1988, this region Although it only lasted eight seconds, it was so powerful that it caused Thousands of houses turned to dust. There are only four families Twelve people. Emigration is the biggest problem. It has not only affected this village What's really sad is that Before the earthquake, this village This was the village school. It was the largest school We don't get earthquakes very often. Once or twice a year I would say. We leave our houses Most of the houses were never rebuilt, In that same year, Armenia entered into conflict in a dispute an area majorly populated by Armenians. After six years of war, Nagorno-Karabakh supported by Armenia, yet ever unrecognized A peace treaty between Nagorno-Karabakh The clashes Christina lives in Stepanakert, From the outside, but her job is far from ordinary. I really like Christina, Her job is very difficult and dangerous. Every morning when she leaves for work she isn't sure Near the Azerbaijan border, Even though she wears the uniform, She works for a British organization There are loads of land mines. We are still at war, so they're not going to get Nagorno-Karabakh is one of the most I've been a mine warfare specialist It seems like Move slightly to the left, You have to approach That way it isn't dangerous. The detonator is on top I'm not scared. If I adhere to the safety rules, I'm the one that finds the landmines, Christina has learned to overcome her fear Becoming a mine warfare specialist was the only way She now earns 400 Euros a month, which is four times It was this piece of metal Over the past 19 years, these mine warfare specialists but the war waiting to resurge again like in 2016, when the two armies fought for four days, The threat of war is a distant worry Right now, The fuel pump isn't working. The fuel pump has died, and they've only traveled Amir tries to reassure his passengers. Don't worry, I'm going to fix it, Over time, I have become Where are we? I'm cold. Mama? I'm hungry. Watch the door to make sure The fuel pump I try to mend it whenever I can. No one is going to bring me An hour later, Amir finds a solution. Now, the fuel is flowing An ingenious plan, but this system still has to last My poor van. She does so much for me, and I don't have the money It's the same every time, We can't go any further. We won't be able to sell our goats today. It's too difficult to go uphill today, Oh my God, What are we going They are hungry, thirsty, The following day, There's an Armenian proverb that says that there's a lion It's true, the Armenians no matter the difficulty.