NARRATOR: The apocalypse. When an entire people ..or destroy themselves. The end of civilisation. For us today, it's barely something we consider. We're so sure But for some civilisations... ..it already has. Empire, as a form of government it has shaped our lives The Roman Empire. The Mongol empire. The British Empire. All have dominated lands ..but none were the first. In the 24th century BCE, Mesopotamia was made up of Each with their own king It was largely inhabited the Sumerians in the south and the Semitic Akkadian people In 2334 BCE the Akkadians uniting the city state kingdoms here to create an entirely new form Empire. This is the first time multilingual group of city states all unified together This represents a tectonic shift this is a new state that we've never seen before. The Akkadian Empire and ruled from the Persian Gulf to the Mediterranean Sea All the way north We see this empire and suddenly to then become the language Under the Akkadians, They used their power to create a period of great Their trade routes outside of the empire, so they were actually trading with people in the Mediterranean who had beautiful artistry Pearls, ivory, both elephant even live animals like monkeys. Everything you could making the empire wealthier But after only 140 years, by 2193 BCE Entire regions were abandoned The Akkadian empire's through the passage of time. What could cause the world's first The Akkadian empire until a British archaeologist On the east bank Sir Austin Henry Layard The king's palace The capital of the Assyrian empire, the people who rose to power over 1,000 years after Layard excavates for years but it's in the last days of the dig that he makes Layard's workers containing 30,000 pieces All marked with Cuneiform script, the ancient writing system What Layard had stumbled across were ever known in the ancient world. The library of Ashurbanipal, What secrets For the 19th century archaeologists, these Cuneiform formed texts could hold an untold about the history The problem is, they're written in an indecipherable To have any hope of the ancient middle east, they need to crack For the past 15 years, British archaeologist has been working on Cuneiform isn't actually a language A bit like in modern times can be used to write English, Cuneiform systems all manner of ancient languages. Rawlinson was obsessed how the ancient Cuneiform system Henry Rawlinson and he was sent on a posting to an And he saw this huge mountain, which was along and he saw about there was an ancient inscription. He can tell that it's written and he also realises that the script It appears to be three different He identifies one of them, but what on earth are the other two? Rawlinson had already translated the old Persian But the other languages When he was shown Layard's discovery he immediately saw that the ..was the same as one of written in Cuneiform, If they could work out in the Behistun inscription said, they could use that as a Launchpad to start decoding from the library said. Understanding this language could be key to unlocking He returned It was assumed all inscribed using the cuneiform Was the answer hidden here? Rawlinson already understood and if he could use that, by decoding the repetitive symbols and working out what he might be able to decode If Rawlinson could find similarities and the unknown cuneiform language, he could build an alphabet for Old Persian uses about and he realised that each of them corresponded to a letter However, the other two languages appear to have many, But this gives Rawlinson a clue. There are too many cuneiform symbols for each one to represent Instead, Where each symbol Rawlinson began trial and error, trying to relate symbols with the symbols that he did And you go, &quot;Well, if this means &quot;maybe that's what this means in the And you try it out. It takes almost ten years He can finally read the tablets And what riches it held. There were texts on medicine, and there was a huge section It was extraordinary, the scribes had not just written the Assyrians, they'd written about the people There was an empire that had been declared Here Rawlinson found references an empire that ruled over Rawlinson christens them The archaeologists were dumbfounded, who were these people? How come we'd never heard of them? How could a whole civilisation in such a way that they would be When did the Akkadians exist? When were they wiped out? And what caused their destruction? Rawlinson spends years after cuneiform tablet, But in 1867, nearly ten years after Rawlinson he came across a tablet. It was the legend the first king Rawlinson had uncovered the first part In 2334 BCE Sargon came to power A city state in the Akkadian region From the very beginning, Akkadian history is steeped Sargon fought war after war expanding his kingdom conquering and subjugating Sumerian to form the Akkadian empire, To fund the administration Sargon demanded each city state Taxes are the price you pay So, what Sargon did was he required every individual and bring it These administrative centres were And Sargon needed a lot of grain, particularly to fund The world's first standing army. Full time, well equipped, always ready to fight. In the past, if they needed to fight, they would bring in You've got soldiers who might be they are not professional fighters, they're not necessarily But by the time you move over you've got people But it's under the rule of in 2254 BCE that the empire Naram-Sin poured into Akkadian construction projects. Glorifying their temples and cities. If you'd gone your mind would've been blown, you'd have seen copper statues, Through conquest from the Persian Gulf bordering the Elamite Kingdom to the Mediterranean sea and northwards Lands that border the territory known as the Gutians. Naram-Sin crowned himself He ruled all the land but even this wasn't enough. Naram-Sin makes himself a god. I mean, talk about the ego There are engravings of him where he's wearing that only the gods wear and he's about twice the size of He's so important The Akkadian empire achieved so why had archaeologists What could have caused the There must be some clue behind why the Akkadian's As they dig deeper they uncover a disturbing legend. The curse of Akkad. The story goes that Naram-Sin and he destroys their temple, he commits this act and as a result of that action The gods were so appalled that they prayed A snippet from &quot;May the grass grow long &quot;Built up with canal sediment. &quot;In your planes, &quot;may the reed of lamentation grow. Akkad, my brackish water flow &quot;where fresh water Because of Naram-Sin's hubris, the gods destroyed Did the empire experience Archaeologists need to know when the Akkadian empire and when they were killed off. Archaeologist and philanthropist donates his collection artefacts and antiquities to Oxford University's For the curators, one of the items A small prism covered It's a copy The Sumerian king list in the Sumerian language. It lists the kings It also tells us the length The Akkadian's, If you can work out you can work out So, if using the Sumerian king list then we can date the Akkadians, we will know for the first time when the Akkadians existed. But without a point of reference, this information was useless. They look again Here were the ancient recordings Scholars realised that recorded by astronomers using a they could use that used in the Sumerian king list. And they found one. A eclipse recorded on the 15 June 763 BCE. The rise of the Akkadian empire We know that Sargon the Great But after the year 2193 start to record what appears to be of the Akkadian empire. They have this phrase that repeats, Kings reigned for merely a year It suggests that there was unrest, that there was chaos, and perhaps an empire The Sumerian King List hints that But it doesn't tell us why. Archaeologist have a year a time of death but they're still no closer to What could have triggered of the world's first empire. They turned their attention to how the Akkadians managed in the harsh climate Maybe this would offer a clue. The Akkadians weren't the first to emerge in Mesopotamia. Over 5,000 years ago, in 3100 BCE, the first great Sumerian cities It's these separate city states that the Akkadians conquered to create the world's first empire. These Sumerians were among the the plough, brew beer and develop the world's first Early forms of cuneiform script. The Sumerians achieved all of this The surplus in food allowed them to go from nomadic to living in settlements, And two natural features were essential for allowing to flourish. Mesopotamia and it means between the rivers. So, it can be broken down into and potami which is rivers. And the two rivers are the Tigris Rivers, particularly were the givers of life. At the time the climate of Mesopotamia Vast desert plains straddling the banks In a land where rainfall was scarce, the Sumerians found a way to turn a desert By building vast irrigation canals. When the Akkadians captured and took control they knew just how important for their survival. But also, for their plans They installed a complex to manage the flow of water. The entire system rested on the health To be able to produce using irrigation they had to constantly maintain this really complex network One of the greatest contributions is bureaucracy. Is administration, to maintain you had to have a strong and looking over The problem with the Akkadians they all seem to become victims As the empire is expanding, there's constantly need There's constantly more With more and more pressure how do they manage to feed Archaeologists Here they find evidence of Akkadian in what is now north eastern Syria. As you move into the landscape actually changes from arid desert to plains. What we see is, unlike the south, we find that here farming Rain fed agriculture relies solely It isn't as efficient but on the Khabur Plains the Akkadians found a way Grain production here became crucial And Akkadian history The north will be an ideal target ..and they had many. Archaeologists looked to the north for any evidence of Renowned British archaeologist, excavates at the ruins It's a huge on the dry farming Khabur Plains. Surely such a large site The problem is, Sir Mallowan turns to a cutting edge Aerial photography. In the 1920s this area from the air. This gives Mallowan a birds eye view and allows him to identify any human made features. When Mallowan broke ground, What he finds is walls, He realises very soon with a grain store attached But this isn't all Mallowan finds. On the bricks is the stamp So, this means that this was built but this palace, this fortress, is unfinished. They've stopped building it What could make the Akkadians at such a strategically Archaeologists need to know if this area is linked In the decades since, more and more Akkadian sites across the Khabur Plains. Archaeologists are shocked Site after site is abandoned At Tell Leilan, unused clay balls left in situ on the floor of the Akkadian Why would people In addition, is the foundations but it hasn't been completed. Archaeologists even find sat next to the unfinished building. It's evidence the site Why would the Akkadians abandon Was this evidence If you're going to conquer you have to first take out In a vast empire, is start taking out Could this explain how the Akkadians Were they wiped out? Archaeologists need to work out Marie Agnes Courty is a geologist In 1990 she was brought in across the Khabur Plains. (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) Courty had found evidence Was Tell Brak destroyed It would explain and unfinished construction project. If the fortress was under attack, the inhabitants may have and the site abandoned. Luckily the cuneiform records for the Akkadians at war. Not everybody wants There are constant rebellions, there's constant unrest And in the east, nomadic mountain warriors the edges of the empire. But the Akkadians The Akkadians were able because they had a standing army. The other thing that was to make incredible use You didn't have to touch and by the time you actually engaged you've already won the war. The Akkadians could hold their own and closer analysis reveals something unusual. (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) The burn layer couldn't And a closer analysis reveals something else Tel Brak was hit from above. Pummelled with debris, (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) Courty needed to know this kind of destruction Was it linked to the collapse She expanded her analysis on the Khabur plains. Was the same pattern of destruction It might help explain the In 1991 Courty looked 50km northeast of Tell Brak Here she made The same flash thermal phenomenon and above this dust, lots of it. (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) Analysis showed a thin layer and then a large layer For Courty, with coarse debris, the impact through the local soil to then settle as a layer of dust. Something pushed this coarse debris with an incredible force. But these aren't the only Buried amongst the debris was small pieces of plastic. (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) Courty began to look outside to see if there were that showed similar signatures. 300km from Tell Leilan Here archaeologists have uncovered (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) Decades of analysis that the destruction The evidence points that devastated sites But Courty has no idea what it is. Could it explain why these (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) In Perpignan, France, at the French National Centre Courty and a team of physicists Because the debris impacted they look to the sky But what could deliver of high-intensity heat? Courty gets a clue, an accident report who have been investigating the death of someone Incredibly, at the accident scene, the emergency workers The same plastic polymers across the Khabur Plains. (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) Industrial plastic is formed by combining and processing It has a unique molecular structure, but the plastic polymers recorded (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) The plastic polymers found on the body of the person were the same as the ones in the Akkadian archaeological Her analysis has shown wasn't pollution after all. But a naturally occurring created by lightning. Courty has a hunch for the destruction across the Khabur Plains. But how could such a large lightning After decades of analysis, that she believes explains it. A dust bomb. It requires a massive injection high into the atmosphere, As this large amount of dust moves between the troposphere it creates friction and the air becomes charged The electric field that it rips atoms apart When these channels connect, and lightning is formed. As this huge amount of dust it generates an incredibly powerful When it touches down (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) The heightened dust needed could explain the thick dust layer Courty's analysis over only a number of days. It would also explain the soot layer Intense heat caused by lightning. But it has proved impossible for Courty to date across each site for certain And without a date range there's no way of linking to the collapse But it was clear accumulated at Tell Leilan. What else could cause and could it be possible to the collapse Doctor Frank Sirocko is He's approached by archaeologists investigating the sudden end (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) The dust particles sink down and build up in layers Sirocko suggested they look taken from the Gulf of Oman. If there was a dust event it would show up here. Crucially, they might be able Doctor Sirocko analysed looking specifically for dolomite. A mineral signature for dust (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) Incredibly the increase in dust Courty believes her dust bomb event But Sirocko's dusty period What could cause in the sediment core history? (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) A 300-year long drought for the collapse As soon as drought takes away as soon as you have too many your empire crumbles. But it seems they weren't to experience upheaval From the Egyptian old kingdom, across the region in modern day Pakistan, and entire cities were abandoned. A severe region-wide drought But did the Akkadian's leave Archaeologists turn again After the year 2193, the Sumerian King List &quot;Who was king, who was not king?&quot; Which suggests a huge depth rulers were on the throne The dust spike taken from the Gulf of Oman which tallies perfectly described by the Sumerian Drought is looking the cause for the collapse But there's an issue These ocean core samples at a high enough resolution There's an inbuilt error range The drought could miss of the Akkadian Empire entirely, it's impossible to prove the drought of the world's first empire. But then, a stroke of fortune. In 2018, Oxford Universities collected samples of stalagmites just outside Tiran in Iran. The lab studies geology and what it can tell us Stalagmites are really good that means they tell us something about the climate As the researchers analysed of the stalagmite samples, they came across There's a spike in dust That lasts for about 300 years. Where is that dust coming from? Well if you look at the main area that dust is from Mesopotamia. And because the tests were done it's possible to date It matches the Oman samples What this is showing But what caused this drought A phenomenon being studied across the world is El Nino. Could it be responsible El Nino occurs when tropical water becomes unusually warm. The effects of El Nino but often cause drought Doctor Frank Sirocko for the drought at 2200 BCE, but how can you work out when El Nino occurred Sirocko turns to what we know now. (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) When they dated the sample, incredibly they see a spike For Sirocko it indicates an intensification around the period (SPEAKS IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE) For Sirocko, cause for drought striking but was there any on the ground linking the drought Archaeologists look again If there was drought, Here they make Usually what you find in the soil are the patterns of marks What we find at Tell Leilan there's no evidence The soil at Tell Leilan Unlike further south, where the land was watered the Khabur Plains If the rain stopped, Drought would make sense why there was such a large It would also make sense why the archaeologists found for pressing cuneiform tablets Evidence that the inhabitants At it's most basic, drought is a really because really you need it to do You need water you need water to water your crops. So, if you don't have any water, If the people of Tell Leilan and there was no longer water it would explain When the archaeologists radio of the settlement People only start coming back So there's a 300-year gap The hiatus dates with the Oman and Iran samples. The evidence points towards striking the Akkadian empire And it's believed which relied on rainfall to survive, was hit particularly hard. The taxes on grain grown were crucial for supporting Particularly funding The city-states that resented took their chances When you can't feed your people, people start to think that The Akkadian Empire maintained power through having a standing As soon as the taxes to pay your soldiers, what hope do you have and therefore what hope do you have over this vast and varied empire And it's thought the Akkadians hit by the drought. As the rain dries up, the Gutian tribes move in, chasing water down Over time, becomes more and more difficult the Gutians become more and more until eventually the whole thing and the Gutians come swarming and take over the Akkadian Empire. But they rule in Empire With the Akkadian Empire it soon broke up into city-states. Like Mesopotamia had been The world's first empire, was gone. The Bronze Age. Between 3300 and 1200 BCE, some of the greatest civilisations rose to power. The Hittites, the Mycenaeans, the all-powerful Egyptian Empire. Up until this point in history, there had been no human beings They controlled wealth, gold, wheat, grain, animals. Every aspect of life along the Nile From North Africa, to the Mediterranean, But in 1200 BCE, the Bronze Age The great civilisations imploded, It lasted for 300 years. The central economy goes away, We get population migration. Basically, everything that had been about the previous era We go into a dark age. But in the ruins of these once lie clues behind what, and who, of an entire period of history. Evidence from archaeological sites point to wave after wave of invasion Hordes of marauders razing Right at the point, They've become known as There's a series of about eight which describe that they are frightened &quot;The enemy ships are already here. &quot;and have done very great damage We asked the question - and are they responsible for the end In Syria's agricultural heartland, a farmer uncovers something No-one could know it now, but this tomb will lead to unknown civilisation, and provide a crucial clue for investigating the collapse The farmer reports it At the time, They turned to experts Archaeologist, Claude Schaeffer Schaeffer was he's the curator and Gallo-Roman Museum and he's already written extensively He's the obvious man for the job. Schaeffer and his team arrive a port on the northwest coast very close to where the tomb They waste no time. Under Schaeffer's supervision, Within days it becomes clear... ..they haven't just discovered they've discovered a whole ancient and it dates The discovery of a cemetery makes it that a significant ancient city It's promising news. Could it shed light on the cause As Schaeffer examines it becomes clear to him is a mound just a few hundred meters When Schaeffer's team break ground, Slowly, they reveal the ruins The big question for Schaeffer It's got fantastic coastal access to It's a gateway port for, so what happened there? The end of the late Bronze and chaos. Was its proximity to the sea It was thought that attacks are rife at this time in history. Buried among the remains, ..an inscribed clay tablet. Could it offer a clue? But there's a problem, it's written in a language that They're just a bit larger than and they're incised with triangular It's a type of writing known as Cuneiform is not a language, basically a reed that's cut and you take the wedge, and you make pictures, basically, So when you find cuneiform tablets, of writing on them, the language that they're written in which is the language of Babylonia, these were written in It was something they'd never seen What was the ancient port city And what was this indecipherable As more and more tablets are it becomes clear they could be just what these ruins were. Could they offer any clues Had this port been destroyed and was the destruction linked Schaeffer has them sent to Paris. Perhaps here, their true meaning In Paris, some of France's look over the Cuneiform tablets. This script is unlike anything At the time in the late Bronze Age, and Akkadian is written in When we say it's a syllabic system, it means that there is a different and in order to render a language you need about 200 or 300 signs. But as they examine these tablets, This new language is alphabetic. It's a much more sophisticated than any Cuneiform script In an alphabetic system, you in which case you need between Now if you just compare these - it makes an alphabetic system of much easier to learn. The tablets Schaeffer unearthed one of the earliest known alphabetic And soon, they begin to give up The tablets revealed was called Ugarit. This is Ugarit now. Claude Schaeffer had uncovered of vastly significant proportions. There were rows and rows of streets, There were temples, there were private dwellings that and evidence of very rich There was a library. There was The scale of construction is clear and the discovery of one alphabetic languages a highly sophisticated people. But Schaeffer has no idea or why they disappeared. To have any hope of answering he first needs to know As excavations continue, Schaeffer's team begin to uncover From these, it's possible to date It rose to power as a wealthy city of the Mediterranean, The tablets also provide about how Ugarit became so rich. The position of Ugarit, was something similar to Rotterdam, at the end of a trade route In Ugarit's case, it was at from the Euphrates River It would have brought in goods to the east, and gold from Sudan and the South, which was brought down from These tablets offer archaeologists on the lives of Ugarit's particularly its wealthy merchants. One of these was Rapanu. and in this house, and these clay tablets how these merchants One of the things that Rapanu did and he also dealt in and other goods. A letter in the Rapanu archive shows when, when things went wrong. A merchant in Syria had calcium but these had not arrived, &quot;You send the donkeys, which is a very contemporaneous for how one merchant would deal And the other tablets mention trade that the age is named after - For Bronze Age civilisations, for smelting bronze was vital All of the weapons at that time and it's crucial, therefore, to get the copper and the tin It was important for them to get but also to get tin the Badakhshan region The tablets also reveal of Ugarit's royal family. We have stories about marriages We get a real sense of political manoeuvring, rivalries. It is like a late Bronze Age And it was a throne Ugarit gained vast prosperity as a trading hub sandwiched whose Pharaohs ruled and the monarchs the two economic powerhouses That perfect position of Ugarit the merchants who lived there were to exploit these trade networks in and this was how the wealth, from poured into the city. The people of Ugarit experienced by taking advantage of this late and the effects of their prosperity Claude Schaeffer uncovered. In Paris, the Louvre Museum holds of beautiful objects For Claude Schaeffer, the people of Ugarit lived a truly but something about the position doesn't make sense. These items were buried like they had been purposefully Why would the people of Ugarit and obviously valuable objects? As the archaeologists expand they uncover evidence collapsed ceilings and terraces Crucially, they discover a distinct ash layer. Ugarit experience wide-scale At Ugarit, because we find so many it means that there was an that they had to leave quickly. The people of Ugarit were forced Ugarit, this thriving, cosmopolitan, of the late Bronze Age, is suddenly destroyed and abandoned What seems to have happened pretty rapidly. They don't seem to have time to take We found, in a number these buried caches of treasures, where people deposited and they took what they could Where did the inhabitants of Ugarit And we don't have an answer to that. There are no tablets &quot;Ah! The refugees from Ugarit This is one of the many mysteries It seems the inhabitants of Ugarit and the discovery of the destruction along with the buried caches indicate that whatever brought about But what could have caused it? Archaeologists scour They find one - not for the cause but rather when it happened. There is one tablet that mentions and that eclipse has been dated to 21 January 1192 BC. That means the city cannot have been so most archaeologists put 1190 and 1185 BC. Archaeologists have a date range They soon realise something... Ugarit's disappearance at this isn't unique. Between 1200 and 1150 BCE, the great the Egyptians, and the Mycenaeans It marks the end of the Bronze Age. What, or who, could have wreaked that an entire period Could Ugarit hold the answer? The archaeologists look again Here, they make a startling A letter, from Ugarit's King to the king of nearby Alashiya - King Ammurapi's letter, it's horrible to read, because it's this man who's He's reporting that his city, It says, &quot;They have set fire to my towns, &quot;and have done very great damage He must be utterly desperate The letter offers a breakthrough. Ugarit's countryside and the city itself was besieged Who were the marauding seamen and were they linked to the collapse Archaeologists turned in the eastern Mediterranean. Perhaps there was evidence And of all the civilisations the Egyptian Empire was One of the reasons why is they control the gold that's So Egypt becomes very rich, The other aspect that contributed and power is the Nile. In this very arid land, if you could manage this constant then you could grow food, then you could have a standing army, and if you could have then you could rule To hold onto their power, the Egyptians needed their army, and the Egyptian pharaohs of recording the details Ramesses III was the king The temple of Medinet-Habu to the exploits of Ramesses III. It tells of the battles he won, of all of his successful military and they're all depicted the whole temple. The pharaohs in ancient Egypt were and were seen as living gods. But hieroglyphs commissioned show that despite all their power, the Egyptian pharaohs were not above As the hieroglyphs were translated, they offered archaeologists These inscriptions revealed that are basically attacking the pharaoh, These battles have been dated between 1177 and 1174 BCE - right around the time of the late Crucially, the hieroglyphs of people arriving by sea - unified together, and strong enough They are christened Could they be the same group But who were they? The carved reliefs of these battles They're different people - so you've got people wearing skirts You've got other men wearing horns, They're obviously a mix of various from around the Mediterranean. From the ancient Egyptian carvings, archaeologists identify at least The individual origins of We have a real problem in that are mentioned as I would surmise that is a different ethnicity. If there is one ethnicity mentioned that archaeologists have In the Medinet-Habu relief, In the Old Testament of the Bible, Around the time of the Egyptian the Bible details stories into Israelite land, Their champion warrior was Goliath. We're pretty sure that the Peleset, are the Philistines mentioned It looks like Ugarit, Egypt, were attacked by the Sea People. But how likely is it that launched coordinated assaults Could their combined efforts of the Bronze Age? My view is that there were no joint or hostile invaders out there. There's nobody sitting &quot;Right, you guys go to Ashkelon. That was not how it was. Surely a disjointed group couldn't have destroyed Ugarit, of history? There must be another explanation of the Bronze Age. For Claude Schaeffer, it's clear the Sea People but what could have? Searching for answers, from one of the eminent As Schaeffer's career takes off, with all of the top archaeologists this includes Arthur Evans, who's famous for discovering Knossos So Evans and Schaeffer form a bond, and they start writing Knossos, like Ugarit, had experienced towards the end followed by the disappearance The natural person to have talked to would have been Arthur Evans. Evans had already done quite a lot and his theory was that it had been destroyed by an earthquake. Arthur Evans is a father-figure He started systematically both the damage and destruction and interpreting them in a context of these episodic Evans really brought out the fact could have widespread effect, the bigger the earthquake, you should see. For Schaeffer, An earthquake would explain collapsed buildings, a result of fires knocked over And this region is riddled When Schaeffer he found evidence It looks like there may have been a sequence, or a storm of earthquakes, that took place over a period of about 50 years, from about 1,225 down to 1,175 BC. The evidence Schaeffer uncovered had been destroyed by an earthquake, right at the point The revelation is profound, and it leads him to draw He actually thought that had been caused by one huge, catastrophic earthquake. Had Schaeffer revealed the culprit And did a series of earthquake wreak so much havoc that the entire Bronze Age The theory has a problem. The reality is that even if it completely the people rebuild, you know? That's where their homes are, that's where their families are, that's where their friends That's where all the rubble is Where else did they go? It's a very rare occurrence would be conceived to destroy So if Ugarit wasn't deserted what caused its population And was its destruction of the late Bronze Age? Maverick American scholar, is invited to to deliver the prestigious Carpenter specialises in the ancient He has a radical theory for Carpenter challenges earthquakes or invasions. He argues that both are rarely catastrophic enough to bring about the total collapse Instead, in his view, the only explanation for such a complete destruction and large migration of its people, is environmental, a severe drought, Rhys Carpenter, brought climate into the debate concerning the end and the reasons behind it. He was well-known for being but this really marked, for the first time, bringing meteorology, climatology, into the archaeological debate. It's a radical thought, a severe, region-wide drought could create a famine large enough to destabilise the late Bronze Age But to back up the theory, Carpenter needs scientific proof. Here, he runs into a problem. When Rhys Carpenter put forward there was not enough specific meteorological data available to substantiate it, in detail, for the regions that experienced destruction at the end of the late Bronze Age. But there could be other proof. Buried among the clay tablets archaeologists uncover a text, a letter, sent pleading for help. We've got a number of tablets, and tablets down to Egypt, in which the Hittite kings have said that that their people are starving. I mean, imagine the proud Hittites stooping to have to ask the Egyptians, and the people of Ugarit, And the famine gets worse. After we've gotten requests from the Hittites, to the people in Ugarit for help, then the people in Ugarit have to ask for help themselves from the Egyptians. But without ancient it's impossible to know for certain whether this crisis affected And without this, it's impossible to say whether caused the collapse And in the case of Ugarit, drought and famine doesn't explain one puzzling piece of evidence, why the wealthy people here buried and left behind their most So just imagine, you're living you, yourself, are a rich merchant. You have all of these tools, You abandon all of it. Why would you do that? The only reason that you would leave all of your worldly possessions behind, and get out, is if you had to do it in a rush. Otherwise, you'd pack. You'd maybe work out the best route. None of them did this. All they did as fast as they possibly could. If we have all cleaning out their goods this can only mean that they were facing a significant and immediate threat. If drought caused to abandon their city, these objects would have The evidence points rapidly fleeing the city. It would be consistent but was there any evidence was at the hands of an enemy force? Archaeologists revisit Among the buried luxury items, collapsed structures, and wide-scale burning, they hit the jackpot. Evidence that they believe shows the city was attacked Excavations revealed arrowheads, dispersed across areas where people lived, and in streets. There had been some kind of in the last days of Ugarit. Tying in with texts, we do know that the people of Ugarit were concerned about incursions from the sea at this point. Was the city's destruction caused According to the Medinet-Habu Egypt's battles took place between 1,177 and 1,174 BCE. If archaeologists could pin a date then perhaps the two attacks Were the same perpetrators for both spates of violence? In order to pinpoint when the attack a team of scientists have turned 35km south of Ugarit. Here, like at Ugarit, they have uncovered evidence and when archaeologists radiocarbon-dated they uncovered something incredible. The radiocarbon dates put a date 1,190 to 1,194 BC. And it would seem highly likely that as it's so close to Ugarit, that that might have happened at roughly the same time as the attack on Ugarit which resulted in Ugarit was destroyed before Egypt was attacked Ugarit was facing an armada It's clear that seaborne marauders along the eastern Could they be responsible for the collapse As archaeologists look to other late the possibility In the Mycenaean world, the archaeological evidence is strong at this period of time, for the destruction of the palaces at Mycenae, and Tiryns, for example. So buildings burnt, It's unclear who the agents of destruction were, but destroyed these palaces were, at the end of the Bronze Age. And the destruction of civilisations that writing simply stops. So in the Mycenaean world, writing was primarily in the form of record-keeping, for the state bureaucracy, keeping accounts of what kind of goods from different parts of the realm, and what were being distributed, things that were coming in, perhaps as taxes, and things that were being paid out as wages or salaries. In the Hittite Empire, it's largely the same, so when these the need for writing disappears too. It's impossible to know whether Mycenae was destroyed but the destruction for the late Bronze Age collapse. What is clear though, is the Sea People working together to attack the great civilisations of the day and as more and more destroyed the scale of the attacks Most coastal cities, down to Gaza, The destruction was so severe that many were abandoned. Was there a cause for such The societies of the late Bronze Age These are highly-exploitative so for the great majority who would have been in very bottom run this was not necessarily and it probably a couple of years of bad harvests, not being able to feed your family, not being able to meet that are being imposed on you. Just something like that to push you into statelessness, to push you into wandering, raiding, that kind of extra-legal activity. Mobile groups, moving around behaving outside the law. Life in the late Bronze Age Taking to the sea, and raiding out of necessity, could make sense as a motivation Archaeologists look again to A closer examination On the relief of this depiction there were not just soldiers, but there were women, and so this isn't just simply a major battle of these Sea Peoples attacking the Egyptians, but it's an actual migration of people coming into the area. Looking at the whole picture of the Mediterranean at this time, there was this Doric invasion and then there were invasions into Asia Minor and then Asia Minor into Cyprus down the coast of what's And it was this domino effect that had essentially started in the Aegean, and worked its way all around the eastern Mediterranean, and it was these Sea Peoples who were attacking the coast, looking for a place to live. The theory would make sense. It was looking like the collapse was brought about followed by a migrational crisis. But was there any evidence to back up the theory? Dr Philipp W Stockhammer is an archaeogenetic who specialises in analysing Stockhammer examined ancient an ancient seaport in the Levant, a region that covered Syria, Lebanon, and Jordan. Crucially, this region of the Levant was inhabited by a group of people It's long been suspected are one of the group of ethnicities that made up the Sea People. Could DNA analysis shed light and whether they had immigrated (SPEAKS FOREIGN LANGUAGE) But when Dr Stockhammer from the remains of four children, buried after 1,200 BCE, the results are starkly different. (SPEAKS FOREIGN LANGUAGE) Dr Stockhammer believes that the Philistines, one of the only known ethnic groups did migrate into the Levant. It backs up further written evidence documenting a mass movement of into the eastern Mediterranean. Crucially, this migration occurred After this year, civilisations in this region began to collapse. But what could have driven and forced them to attack Ugarit, the Hittite And were they the cause To understand what could have led to make this life-changing decision, we need to know what the eastern at this point in time. Paleoclimatologists drew from the sea floor By charting the build-up of it's possible to build up a history of ancient climate. What we see is a change It's actually a drop of about two to four degrees, the sea gets colder, and that in itself would have a catastrophic impact on the rain patterns that people Colder temperatures lead to less intense rainfall, which in turn leads to drought, which in turn leads and that means people starve. Just as Rhys Carpenter it was evidence of drought leading to a famine Now, 50 years later, we have the scientific data that Carpenter was lacking, and it looks like he was completely right, that drought was one of the factors that brought an end, not just to the Mycenaeans but also to many of the other cultures and civilisations in the lands surrounding Greece as well. For the people living they would have faced In the Bronze Age, people would have known about prosperous places on the coast of the Levant, and would have perhaps attempted to go there in order to access Imagine living on an island and the harvests fail, and you're hungry. Do you watch your family slowly die, watch your neighbours or do you get in your boats? For people living in the communities sailing would have been You have young men, well-versed in military tactics, able to commandeer ships in order to try and secure crops. It's believed these groups of people left their doomed to become the multi-ethnic group we know as the Sea People. So not bloodthirsty killers for the sake of it, but rather, people under extreme stress, looking for food, and looking to save It's believed the Sea People of opportunistic attacks against the wealthy civilisations that bordered What we call the Sea Peoples today are most likely people by way of Crete, and then from there came to the eastern shore of the Mediterranean and it doesn't appear that it was one quick invasion, but rather a slow migration over a period of many, many decades. I don't think we'll ever know but for me, at least part has got to be a large proportion of the population who was disaffected, dissatisfied, disenfranchised, unable to feed themselves, rootless, stateless people who are reduced to raiding, and who take out their anger and frustration in violence, in rioting, in looting, in tearing down the palaces of people who they might have seen as their oppressors. It's thought some places but in others, the attackers to establish a new home. We often accuse the Sea Peoples, the Philistines, and the other groups that are there as being plunderers and people who just came in and destroyed everything in order to create their new land, but is that not what every colonising group does? I mean, this is what colonisers have done throughout history. And it's believed that attacks became increasingly more potent as conditions deteriorated around the eastern Mediterranean. Schaeffer was not wrong. There was an earthquake, it just wasn't the only thing that was going on at the time. Personally I think that's how we get the perfect storm. It wasn't just an earthquake, it wasn't just the Sea Peoples, it wasn't just the famine, it was everything. I think what you've got is this combination of a series of events that begin to compound and that caused the Hittites and the Egyptians, to basically wane, to retreat. Great civilisation It led to the end of the Bronze Age. In the chaos that followed, a dark age descended This is where they've forgotten but what we in particular get are a number of smaller kingdoms and smaller city-states that reform, pick up, and continue in what is essentially a power vacuum that's been left by the collapse of the late Bronze Age kingdoms The Sea Peoples had the audacity the ancient Greeks While we may never know these mysterious people had a profound effect I do not think that the late Bronze Age collapse would have occurred if it were not for the Sea Peoples being in the mix. The remnants of great kingdoms, civilisations span the globe. The old Egyptian kingdom, Drought, conflict, collapse. We know the story of their rise and also their fall. But one of the greatest the world has ever seen still holds mysteries The Maya civilisation. For nearly 3000 years, the Maya thrived in the rainforests Their civilisation a centralised empire but a series of all with common languages, At its peak, in 500CE, great stone cities their heartland was in the WOMAN: The Maya civilisation You have the cities are getting larger, the art is They have sport, They are able and chart perfectly They had developed of science and mathematics that far exceeded Their astronomy and mathematics They have one monument is covered with the glyphs, it's a giant Multiplying into the billions. At the heart of each Maya city A holy lord who they believed could communicate guaranteeing An offering of their own blood in the form The civilisation reached But by 900CE, their great And the Maya people We ask the question what happened to Europeans first encountered in the early 16th century. By 1519, Spanish led by Hernan Cortez, began their colonisation They were driven by its promise But they also found a people ripe for conversion MAN: The Spanish conquistadors One was gold. No question about it. And the other was that they Catholic. And they wanted and the Catholic Church. Along the edges they encountered a disparate, of indigenous people The conquistadors were fanatical in the way they delivered Bishop Diego de Landa was in the way that he perpetrated He tortured them. He burnt their books, they have wonderful books that they used to He needed to destroy that was in the way of them Originally, there of these bark paper books and he gathered up all the bark and he burned them But the Spanish found destroying the ruins of the massive stone cities As the centuries passed more and more of this mysterious By the early 19th century, the first widely read account reached Europe. Spanish author Antonio del Rio's It describes abandoned and hidden by vegetation Among those who read it are the amateur archaeologists John Lloyd Stephens They are mesmerised a lost world consumed Who built these stone monuments Why were they abandoned? To the archaeological it seemed impossible that the indigenous known as the Maya, The establishment at the time and they saw these things which and they thought, &quot;Could this be made &quot;or maybe it was the &quot;It couldn't have Stephens and Catherwood by the establishment's view. They knew that they couldn't other than a native For them, it's clear these ruins are the remnants of an ancient They set out But why have they Could they find any evidence for why these cities Stephens and Catherwood, armed decide to go down in the middle Central America was in It was extremely dangerous, Stevens and Catherwood Their mission begins in Honduras at the base of Each of them had two pistols, This was dangerous ground. And they would soon discover a civil war could be They were a little bit naive in thinking, &quot;We'll just make &quot;And keep out of the way and But while sheltering drunken soldiers They were taken hostage in very dicey circumstances that they didn't know they The following morning, Stephens and Catherwood to continue on their journey. But now their greatest threat but the terrain I don't know if you've seen but they are near-cliffs. And these guys were trekking the insects, the discomfort. But Stephens and Catherwood finally locate Near the Honduran town of Copan. The two waste no time. They employ local tribesmen And as the forest is cut back, they realise their adventure The illustrations they had seen were nothing like It was electrifying. It took their breath away. They found monuments, and houses made of stone. It was a revelation. And as Stephens and Catherwood it becomes clear Hidden beneath the rainforest, they uncover stone city The scale of construction And across the sites, they what looks to them This is an entire civilisation And not only that, they realise is similar to anything Yes, it might be hieroglyphs, the Egyptian hieroglyphs, And this must come from They cut, climb and scrape their way through nearly and uncover some of the greatest From Kabah, and Palenque to Tulum, Uxmal, and Chichen Itza in the north In total, they identify And the similarities and the carved glyphs show it's the work The Maya civilisation. When they publish, The books were bestsellers. And the illustrations, just struck the popular mind. It was a sensation. They were the archaeological But their findings ask more What had happened What could cause the collapse And when did it happen? (SUSTAINED NOTE) If the early archaeologists could find a way they might be able to work out There could be clues found carved into stone across The problem was The task of decoding by the actions of fanatical centuries earlier. Invaluable secrets to unlocking went up in flames when The early archaeologists trying are forced Almost. Some copies of their books Could they help unlock The archaeological world that Ernst Forstemann The Royal Dresden library that had been spared It's known as the Dresden Codex. When Forstemann began work he was already building They already knew dealt with the Maya and their calendar. But just how, no one was sure. With much of their writing decoding their calendar to understanding when the Maya Forstemann takes up the Forstemann worked out that some of the glyphs and they weren't they were actually dates. As a mathematician, that Maya dates counted as just Now this measures really huge The right hand-most number and shows days. The next one in is a 'Winal' and that represents The next one in is a Tun and the next one in which are blocks of 20 years. The next one in, 20 periods of 20 years each. Which is 144,000 days. Or a little less than 400 years It was a breakthrough. Archaeologists not only how but also how In the Dresden Codex, they had of the occurrence An historical occurrence is something astronomers using our own calendar. If you can find that date and you can sync the two. And astronomers a solar eclipse recorded on July 16, 790 CE. The Maya calendar Archaeologists began seeing at sites across the Maya world. Dates were carved on the sides of monuments, on the sides They were absolutely Now that archaeologists could they turned their attention In one particular kind captured their attention. Archaeologists had long the stone tablets that had been represented some kind of some kind of important figures. Could the Maya have for what caused their demise? The problem was that had been decoded, this was only a small portion The vast majority still remained indecipherable. If they could then they could about what the people found so important that they'd For over 100 years, archaeologists were trying to Over 800 individual and researchers suspected the a mixture of logograms where a symbol represents a and syllabagrams where each and are combined But with so the system was too complex. The Maya code Until in the 1980s, 15-year-old David Stewart After centuries of failure, what As a child, he'd grown up exploring Mesoamerican ruins because his father worked for the National And when new temple complexes this kid, David, would sit down and his sketchbook And it meant that he had as of Maya writing systems as all But like the experts Stewart couldn't get past With over 800 there were too many for each one to represent But the sheer number of glyphs David Stewart realised that the symbols didn't each there were multiple symbols that would represent There weren't in the Maya language, just Words could be depicted using and individual syllables The Maya code was cracked. And as archaeologists began to they were blown away. They showed birthdates, they showed important victories and when the throne was In those tablets of stone, we have the history Archaeologists could and what they discovered In the rainforests of Honduras and El Salvador, the Maya people thrived As early as 2000 BCE, civilisations began to emerge First the Olmecs and then Their traditions shaped In roughly 250 CE, the Maya developed into Almost a thousand years before the Aztecs and the great Inca empire But it's from 500 CE in the southern lowland that the Maya It's a civilisation but by 900 CE, the Maya abandoned Remnants of the people survived These are the people the in the 16th century. But there civilisation is And over the centuries, the cause of their exodus from the southern lowlands Studying them is really kind to understand the body. It's in ruins in the jungle. It's one of the greatest What caused the collapse But among the ruins, surely the Deep in the Guatemala rainforest archaeologists uncover At Maya cities all along this A vast majority of of a particular bone deformity particularly in the skull What you end up with is skulls that kind of look but they're thick, Deformities in the bones it's clear these people As more deformed bones were it became clear along the Pasion River. Archaeologists need to know what They enlist the help of The conclusions that Saul and was that along the Pasion River, were evidence of malnutrition. These people had starved. Malnutrition suggested that Given that rainforests are in many ways, Typically, tropical rainforest they can be exhausted MAN: It's really hard to in a rainforest where where you have to constantly between the nutrients and the nutrients coming through your harvesting. The ideas that outstripped their capacity Particularly with the form of that archaeologists consider Clearing the forest In slash-and-burn farming, for every three years you then need 15 years of the for it to recharge its If you just keep growing and without waiting 10 or 15 years, for the soil the food would Did the Maya population Archaeologists needed a way to the true scale For centuries, archaeologists in the rainforest, But then a revolutionary LIDAR, transformed LIDAR sends down of laser beams to the surface and it measures the speed bouncing back and returning and so by measuring you can calibrate and build a 3D model of what the shape of the land The amazing thing about LIDAR is that the light ray will even through dense tree cover, so you can start to build of the land surface hidden deep If you suddenly see a straight that isn't Mother Nature, You're looking the anomalies, and those are And when LIDAR recorded the the results were astonishing. Out of nowhere, over 60,000 suddenly appeared. What the lidar revealed lived in little cities but actually all of these This is massive infrastructure. This is one of the more that humanity has ever seen. Crucially, LIDAR revealed the Tikal is one of the greatest It's been studied for more than and to be honest, but then they sent up and it was an Scans of the Tikal show the city was four times larger than LIDAR analysis to radically rethink the size There was an estimate but the estimate to about 15 million people. The Maya civilisation at that time was one of the largest and This forces us to go back and what's called How many people could it have Surely it would be impossible for the nutrient-poor to sustain that Did their agriculture Just as archaeologists thought they had solved the mystery LIDAR analysis threw The Maya were spectacularly they understood the limitations and engineered to maximise their farming yield. LIDAR techniques have forced of Maya ambition in terms of So much of the landscape was managed for They irrigated large raised and so that they could retain as preventing runoff from water, preventing erosion, helping in the soil so that it retains There are these areas that are in Spanish the word is 'bajo' - you get a lot of vegetation and it stays that gloopy, rich organic matter. Now, yeah, it stinks, you don't necessarily but if you dump that stuff onto it's incredible fertiliser. These are farmers who understand their in order to maximise the of these landscapes. The Maya were masters in the typically difficult Cultivating the land gave them and a food surplus. And this allowed Provided the climate remained They had learned how to walk they had learned how to reach between not over-exploiting, but exploiting enough They were amazing experts And there was something else written evidence of famine. But did the Maya for the cause of their collapse Dr Arthur Demarest's team a Maya ruin near At the start of and it's absolutely and the story the glyphs All-out, bloody, vengeful war. Could this have been the war The glyphs offer a tantalising behind the Maya collapse. Could one Maya group But the translators The glyphs seem incomplete. Part of the story is missing. The dig goes from bad to worse. Excavations at the because of the hurricane season and the excavators got a call saying that there'd and lots of damage at the site but one of the things it revealed more hieroglyphs And this The hurricanes exposed him Covered in glyphs. The archaeologists could finally It was the history of Dos Pilas Did the Maya As Demarest's team they discover a detailed story. In the 600s CE, Tikal and Calakmul. Tikal rises to ascendancy and and lots of other very rich and In the 620s, one of the sons of is sent to an outpost on the to establish a new city. We know it as Dos Pilas. And it was important as a sort basically to ward off potential because they could see that there was control But Calakmul wasn't deterred. And Dos Pilas Analysis of the glyphs showed DOs Pilas pledged and fought with them. This war didn't end in total it ended in assimilation. In most cases, they would put or often the same king, but now they're paying tribute Rival cities and their people It's evidence that was an expansion of influence, Maya civilisation was war-like, The cause of their Apocalypse Archaeologists return to see if they had somehow The collapse of the Maya cities start with Dos Pilas, then all along Maya cities fall The answer had to lie Dr Demarest and his team a Maya township meets Guatemala's The city of Concuen was a small We have there the largest So the city was very important. Here the archaeologists There's a little pool, just started and then it was bigger and And then they More bones. More bones. There were 30... Archaeologists that in times of great crisis, Is this what happened here? Luckily, the Maya left behind about the macabre ritual. When Maya were sacrificed, they would be brought they would be their heart would so it leaves a fairly in the Were the bodies in the Dr Demarest's team of the Forensic Foundation Forensic pathologists who They established that the with sacrificial practice. They had jade implants And then you had... also you had, well, and some canines. Clearly these were not just They were the high elite. They could see that a couple were bashed Several had a spear thrust severing the spinal cord. The autopsies make So why were these people killed? They find another clue The palaces, parts are toppled, many hundreds of tons of dirt are buried over the We're digging, and, &quot;Wow, this is really &quot;you know, for collapse.&quot; They date the destruction Whatever happened at Concuen happened near the start Everything pointed to the deaths with a distinct Could it offer clues for There is almost nothing which isn't They had a holy lord at the top And he gets his power because He could talk with the gods, MAN: They had many, for different things. Corn god or rain god. It was crucial for the Maya that the gods were placated. This meant life and death because the agricultural was very much To appease the gods, the holy with an elaborate ceremony. They put on pageants They loved red and they painted and their temples The king would go up carrying 200 pounds Jade was one of their most the very noble, the very obviously the holy ruler would've had a lot involving jade as a way Once they have the attention of they opened up Blood was a way of The holy lord would cut part of and drain his blood. Pieces of paper or parchment would be used to soak he would then burn that No, this was meant to conjure a serpent who would then go on behalf of the holy ruler The visions would advise them on but crucially, when to plant and for the Maya, the city reaped the greatest rewards. You have this competition of one city and another. This is called 'status But also construction, pyramid-building and then you they have to be bigger. Which requires bigger There are many cities in the And there is evidence the holy lord of Concuen at the epicentre of Maya trade. In the holy lord's palace, Dr Demarest's team have It shows the holy lord sitting The was symbolising that he was the king The rainforest Rivers were the big highways. The Pasion River is the and it flows from the all the way through to Mexico. Jade was coming back. Jade was necessary it's very powerful, in terms of your social status. By 796, the holy lord and his from the Jade trade. But just four years later, It's a pattern repeated across a city reaches the height They returned to the 31 bodies understanding why and one very striking feature The victims were buried still These were the remains of It seemed very strange to us but it wasn't It's not invaders. It's not people from If they were killed by invaders, their bodies The holy lords of and their shrines desecrated by But what triggered this sudden Archaeologists looked the regional powerhouse It's a very strange city, But then when it became more controlling but it ended up conquering The conquest didn't mean that it DID mean they paid tribute, and it led to a period Although financially, there were signs had turned its back They were at their height in 761, they tore down a lot of to build defensive walls. There was obviously But from whom? Archaeologists looked under their control They struck gold in the When archaeologists began the stelae what they found was that had decided to rise up and overthrow With Tamarindito advancing, We dug 13km of walls. And we found right by where the in the centre part of the city, 13 decapitated young adult male - in a pit there. By 761 CE, the elites and the city abandoned. But the fighting When Dos Pilas was destroyed, then you start There is a rapid domino effect, the population drop was very It seems there was a rebellion that spread throughout The heartland of So what caused the Maya to revolt against the ruling We will never completely be the individual ways in which this city collapsed But it's not that important, what's important and then see The system of divine kingship You see all these things - more and more monuments because you have more nobles and the kings needed more jade, need to have more power. And you see those things and it really is greater but not for everybody. The degree of social inequality Dr Arthur Demarest believes this system of divine placing all their faith in the is key to the collapse. Over time, the differences in the stratification between and the rulers became greater And then this wonderful and the beautiful sites, the energy for that being you begin to see the health of the farming class 95% of the population Status rivalry between city to breaking point. And things were only In 800 CE, the Yucatan was It lasted for 150 years. The Maya civilisation reached because they mastered farming in a typically difficult The drought threatened And the Maya solution would prove just as fatal. Whenever there was a disaster, whenever there and the holy lord was unable to convince the gods well, what did they do? They'd be focusing on building building more monuments, a city would declare war on going out and at a time that your people you're going out and spending a it seems really backwards. The Maya went to war to what little resources Built more temples, and prayed harder hoping Their efforts proved futile. What happens when the holy lord is unable to convince the gods Maybe you realise that and if the system what do humans tend to do? They tend to smash It's believed that one by one, they gave up on their holy lords like the people ritually killed them What happened to the Maya, compared to other civilisations, From its height, the Roman Empire took over And their responses are very different The leaders of the Roman Empire were fundamentally Different versions of political in order to prevent Various emperors delineated said, &quot;This is as far &quot;in order to not destroy The thing about the Romans in order to try From what we know of the they didn't do that. The Maya people themselves Their descendants live But it's thought that at the ancient Maya and dispersed reorganising into smaller, By 900 CE, the collapse in the had all but stopped. And only Maya in the Yucatan The Maya's great temples, their palaces, their cities, were left for the rainforest.