Johnny Mathis sold millions of records and Above all, however, he's best remembered as to pretty much every genre under the sun. Here's the untold truth of one of pop music's You might call the genre of music for which or just plain pop -- the kind of stuff sung which dominated the music scene before rock things. But while Mathis is a consummate pro in his He wanted to be a jazz singer, like his heroes While attending San Francisco State College, on the weekends. A club owner invited George Avakian, head hear the 19-year-old Mathis sing. By 1956, Mathis was in New York, recording Mathis: A New Sound in Popular Music. The album flopped, but Columbia artists and He thought Mathis' voice was better suited Miller set up another session for Mathis, singles: &quot;Wonderful! Wonderful!&quot; and &quot;It's Not for Me to Say.&quot; Mathis has remained extremely loyal to Columbia. Apart from a brief stint with Mercury Records his professional home since 1956 -- and today, In the 1950s and '60s, Johnny Mathis scored Arguably two of his best-known hits from this One other thing these timeless tunes have of either of them. As he once told the radio documentary series &quot;I didn't like [The Twelfth of Never] because to happen. And I was really Joe College at that time. I was right out of college and I was hot to I wanted to do something, you know, rah-rah-rah, As for &quot;Misty,&quot; he hadn't even planned on The song was originally an instrumental by record it if Garner wrote some accompanying Some time later, Garner showed up to a Mathis As Mathis said: &quot;I was just praying that he would forget about &quot;Greatest hits&quot; albums may be blatant cash They make for a great overview or introduction the best-selling albums of all time -- for actually the top-selling LP of any kind in In fact, greatest hits collections seem like anybody ever had to consciously invent them... The first greatest hits album was Johnny Mathis' less than two years into the singer's career. Shortly after &quot;It's Not for Me to Say&quot; started chance to tour the United Kingdom, but before down some more tracks. He didn't have time to make that happen, however, Compile the singer's singles. Mathis later told SongFacts: &quot;He threw the first four recordings that I them Johnny's Greatest Hits. That was a little flamboyant, because it was Not only did Mathis help create a new way successful - Johnny's Greatest Hits spent chart. Johnny Mathis was close friends with First to resist drugs by imploring them to &quot;Just She also directly helped Mathis break his Under Reagan's direction, Mathis checked into Maryland. &quot;I had three weeks of finding out why I drank, It was the greatest thing that ever happened That marked the second time Mathis fought In the early '60s, he placed himself under Feelgood&quot; type who prescribed hefty doses Dr. Jacobson, who infamously treated JFK's regenerator&quot; treatments that included the Mathis' use of these drugs even left him hospitalized As Mathis told The Express: &quot;I went to see him because I was doing five and got laryngitis. Everyone on Broadway went to him. [...] He gave me vitamin shots which brought a drug addiction. It was very traumatic but I just had to stop.&quot; By 1978, it had been 15 years since Mathis the pop chart at all since early 1974. Mathis and his producer, Jack Gold, realized have to stage a comeback. Luckily, Gold had heard good things about Mathis later told Billboard: &quot;We knew Deniece was big in the R&amp;B area so diehards to listen to some of my music.&quot; Williams was excited to collaborate with Mathis together, titled &quot;Too Much, Too Little, Too Indeed, the singer later told The Washington takes of the tune. But Williams was wrong -- the song hit #1 and Williams. The duo rushed into the studio to record That's which produced a minor hit in &quot;You're All of &quot;Without Us,&quot; which would eventually become song -- largely because it was used as the Ties. Johnny Mathis came up in an era when being The idea was so widely despised that to be Still, rumors persisted about the romantic Johnny Mathis. Mathis' success was built on an ambiguous own love life extremely private. In a 1982 profile in Us Weekly, however, Mathis &quot;Homosexuality is a way of life that I've The backlash was swift and frightening, and The singer later told The Sunday Express: &quot;I've had a few death threats from the Southern concerned about what came with it.&quot; So Mathis cut down on pre-concert publicity know about his appearances in advance. He also declined to speak on the topic of In 2017, however, he opened up a little more &quot;I come from San Francisco. It's not unusual to be gay in San Francisco.&quot; As a result, he didn't expect the kind of &quot;I thought it was maybe a little bit blown On the heels of his late '70s soft rock comeback into the era's other dominant musical form: The singer teamed up with two of the genre's the writers, producers, and leaders of the The duo would ultimately help David Bowie music performers, and they tried to do the My Lady. Sadly, upon its completion, Columbia Records No one at the company took any steps to release album to stores. In 2011, Mathis told BBC Radio 4's Front Row at the time. &quot;The record company is almighty when you're They have their likes and dislikes.&quot; Luckily, I Love My Lady did finally reach Romance: The Columbia Original Album Collection, works. Not merely an incredible singer, Johnny Mathis Mathis was a standout athlete as a teenager, track and field teams at San Francisco's George Mathis was so skilled at the high jump that Francisco State College. He could regularly and easily clear 6'5&quot;, Mathis' crosstown rival was 6'9&quot; University who went on to win 11 NBA championships with Nevertheless, Mathis once managed to beat Nevada. All that earned Mathis an invitation to attend Although they were being held not too far couldn't go -- the same week he got the call York for his first recording session. Nevertheless, Mathis's impact on Bay Area remains a major sports event in San Francisco. Johnny Mathis was a remarkable athlete as for golf until adulthood -- during some time Vegas in 1965. The singer is a member at three different about 300 times a year. As he once said: &quot;It's the only social activity I have. I have never socialized with other entertainers. But I enjoy the company of golfers.&quot; Of course, all that practice is going to make an excellent duffer. He played in pro-ams alongside monumental and took lessons from players on the PGA Tour. He got his handicap down to a seven, and has separate occasions. The singer also hosted his own tournament It's plenty normal for rich and famous celebrities staff. After all, they've got the money for it -- and for themselves. But Johnny Mathis isn't that kind of celebrity. Both of his parents worked as cooks in the on their skills to their son. Mathis told South Sound: &quot;I kind of watched over them and wanted to He added that he enjoys dedicating hours on this on the road, if he can. When extended-stay, kitchen-enabled hotels years ago, Mathis was, in his words, over Mathis actually has an entire room in his house told The Times of Northwest India that his As he himself says: &quot;When I go out shopping and pass a bookstore, Mathis even wrote his own cookbook in 1982. Cooking for You Alone focuses on the unique person at a time -- something Mathis, who years. Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Grunge videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the