A number of technologies grew and matured radios, zeppelin's. Terrible technologies like but one technology rose above the rest in the only Railway War. Railroads were so important to of the start of the first world war was based better control of their railway network was one deploy more troops and gain success in the early the ability to move masses of reinforcements the Great War into the bloody static war that homefront. In the United Kingdom, for the first were all brought under government control, and the United Kingdom's war effort in immeasurable disaster in the history of the British Isles. The United Kingdom realized the importance of War started. In 1912, the Railway Executive Britain in the event of an emergency an intermediary between the various British were roughly twice as much track in the and routes and stations were under the control of already worked with the War Office, for example, it was quickly recognized that a much greater Britain were to go to war. Trains were the their equipment, weapons, horses, and vehicles. of horses requisitioned in war would further that railways would be a central technology The railways established plans, and to ports of embarkation in case of war, who kept the timetables, and distributed them in when the United Kingdom officially declared took direct government control of a hundred The war caused a special problem for the British Over 180,000 British railway workers enlisted, supported troops in France, part of the railway More than 20,000 of the British railway workers European battlefields. Famously, more women were workers at home. The number of women employed 13,000 at the start of the war, to over 68,000. cars produced by the military, although shortages often in a state of disrepair, were also pressed built to convey army, and navy equipment, and trains that could be a third of a mile long, that injured and sick troops to hospitals throughout the Jellicoe Specials, trains named for Admiral from Southern Wales to the Royal Navy fleet in the hundred Jellicoe Specials were running every week. the Great War was directly moving troops. Many and sidings, as were new munitions factories. included the world's first roll-on/roll-off fourteen hundred and eight Special trains ran, The scale was staggering. Over a period of three Southampton docks every 12 minutes during the just 27 days after entering the war, trains hundred eighteen thousand army personnel, 37,000 And the trains would keep rolling, carrying carry them to France, or the far-flung one of those units that was being transported Originally raised in 1633, the Royal the oldest and most senior Infantry Regiment of regiment expanded quickly during the Great Territorial Force were mobilized, and seven under Kitchener's new army scheme. By the end and ten more were added in 1915. All told, the troops during the Great War, almost half of which Territorial Force had been created in 1909 as British land forces as a unified auxiliary the Territorial Battalions, not well regarded by freeing regular army battalions for foreign the territorial forces were increasingly deployed of the Royal Scots Guards. Mobilized in what the 7th RS spent the first several months Edinburgh. But in April 1915, they were sent for to be deployed to The Front. They expected but that was not the Army's plan. On the evening issued with ammunition, blankets and bedding, that France was not their destination. The men Mediterranean, to the bloody conflict at the mouth Originally the men of the 7th RS should but the troopship that was intended to carry so the battalion was mobilized the day later, battalion was loaded onto two trains, the first hours later. The second train included about included 21 wooden carriages with The Caledonian Railway was formed in 1845 at United Kingdom were developing into longer lines the line was to connect local Scottish lines with The main line of the railway connected Glasgow to standard gauge, and when it was completed in 1848, Glasgow and London. There were competing lines but the Caledonian line was a popular railway. of the English Scottish border. About Caledonia main line was the Quintinshill the spot had probably been named for a house house was gone. What Quintinshill was, was a place side of the northbound and southbound tracks short sections of track connected to the main On the morning of May 22nd, two northbound running late, so the local service from the sleepers to pass. But a goods train was and so the local was shunted onto the southbound wagons was coming southbound and was placed on cars passed by northbound. The signalmen were James Tinsley, having arrived late on the track. He and the night signalman George The second troop train carrying the men It's still not completely clear there were several breaches of regulations and Meakin simply were distracted. As the apparently having forgotten that the local The train full of sleeping soldiers was struck the parked local train at approximately leading carriages of the troop train hopped rest of the Train compressed, spilling over train were compressed into less than 70 yards the cars were lit by gas lamps, and the canisters ruptured and were ignited by the coals from the trapped, trying desperately to escape the burning started blowing. The second northbound sleeper enough time! It struck the wreckage at nearly 50 to escape the initial collision were mowed down. A in 1985, he said, "I think I prayed. The Express into the air. I came to halfway down an embankment farm workers and villagers alerted by the noise, Some men had to have limbs amputated on site to some men who were trapped were shot to keep them it happen. Rachael Nimmo, 28 years old, and her were the only passengers on the local train 43 year old Scottish engineer, and three army, and troop train, and a sleeping car attendant on the but the mass of the casualties were among the listed by the Army was 210, with another 224 dead could be identified. Of the 499 officers and were present for roll call that afternoon. The where it was said that there was not a family Quintinshill train disaster is still today, Tinsley, Meakin and a man named George Hutchinson, were charged in both Scotland, where the accident died. They became the first men to be indicted Kingdom countries, although they were tried but Tinsley and Meakin were convicted of culpable were released in December of 1916 where they railway. That fact was part of the reason that reanalysis of the accident, postulated that railway and the British government, who to take sole responsibility for the accident, the railway. They faulted the railway operators for overburdening their signalman by despite the increased demands of the war, in endangering the soldiers by putting them in safe. The bodies of a hundred and one men of the in Edinburgh's Rosebank Cemetery. The funeral and thousands of citizens. A memorial to the I hope you enjoyed this episode of the history between 10 and 15 minutes long, and if thumbs up button. If you have any questions, or please write those in the comment section, I will the History Guy on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, And if you'd like more episodes on forgotten