I will kill for the idea to be a Jewish My name is Wajat Ali and some / dude who wears a lot of makeup on It always seems like white writers get to talk about Muslim radicals and extremists, but Muslims are never because we're seen us too Growing up as a son of Pakistani immigrants, Israel was a colonizing force-- a force of oppression and injustice. I want to go talk to Jewish fundamentalists--these settlers in the West Bank. If we can get some people to think about Israel and Palestine through a new lens, new perspectives...why not? In 1967, fearing an attack from the Arab In 6 days, they not only defended their territory but also expanded it to more than twice its pre-war size, including occupying the the area Palestinians hope will be part of their future State. Today, over 400,000 Israeli Jews live in the West Bank in defiance of international A Swiss cheese of towns and cities that may make a viable Palestinian State I want to find out: Who are these settlers, and why do they choose to I feel like I'm in a very wealthy Who wants coffee? I will gladly take if you are making, sir. Let me see where my wife puts the sugar... To you, as a religious Jew, explain to me... Why would someone choose to live in the West Bank? This is the symbol of returned, restored Jewish sovereignty. The land -- and the dream of Now, we're coming to one of the our being here: what we call the Tel of So, we're digging out the past and finding bones, we're finding pottery, we're finding of was here at Tel Shilo 3,500 years ago So, there are many Palestinians who say they have a greater right to this land than you, an American Jew born in Brooklyn. - Bronx. Go ahead and keep digging 10,000 years... I'll show you the key to my great-grandfather who's here. I assume that he does have the key to an actual home that existed here from his grandfather. I don't dispute that. It's who was here consistently, century and that belongs only to the Jews. When you think of that dumpy settlement... this is the dumpy settlement. You got these shack-like things behind me. So you were the first house. But weren't you afraid? I mean, there's nothing here. There's no grocery store, no gas station, no hospital, no neighbors... Good! According to me, that's what I dream of. Everything is belong to us -- by history, by I spent my last 2, 000 years as a foreigner -- as someone exiled from this country in Iraq in, in Poland, in Russia, and Germany... I won't be [a] foreigner again. The occupied territories and the the central and most divisive political issues in Israel since, literally, the moment of the ceasefire in June 1967. A group called Gush Emunim, the block of the faithful, this premiere settler organization, began to work to create large-scale civilian settlements across the occupied territories. The right-wing Likud governments took that foundation and accelerated it greatly, and through a variety of means, drew hundreds of thousands of Israelis to live in Occupied Territory. What we mainly do is we're playing offense. And it's not an offensive campaign against terrorism. It's an offensive campaign against Palestinian independence. There isn't almost any Palestinian city in the West Bank that isn't encircled by the settlements, 360 degrees. If you're Palestinian and want to leave a city, you need to have a permit. When you leave, you have to wait at a checkpoint. Another people -- another authority that you don't recognize as your own -- controls every aspect of your life. TV NEWS: 3 Israelis were killed by a Palestinian terrorist in the settlement of Halamish in the West Bank over the Jewish Sabbath. Guys, can we actually stop by in this settlement where this attack happened? I'm going to meet the sister of the IDF soldier who shot Omar Al-Abed, the 19-year-old Palestinian attacker. And she's going to take us literally to the place where he saw them. My family heard the screaming and my brother ran out and he jumped over the bush over here. From the window, he saw the terrorist who was stabbing Yossi, my neighbor. He shot over there and he managed to neutralize the terrorist who fell down on the floor. And then they ran into the house and they saw an awful, awful scene, bleeding all over the floor. It's almost like the settlers are building homes on hot lava. Are they helping create this cycle of dysfunction? I think if anyone's not helping, it's the terrorists who are murdering people in their beds. I'm about to go talk to Omar's parents. Do you condemn what your son did or not? We visited the family of this guy, this 19-year-old, Omar. So we meet the father today. So what was the father's point? I didn't see any remorse. There's posters of Omar everywhere. I think he was very proud of what he did. No kidding. Omar is a hero now. Isn't it interesting that in the holiest real state on Earth, where God thrives with all of his prophets... I have not thought about God in the past week. I haven't seen God anywhere. We're about to head into Hebron. This has been described as the heart of darkness of the settlements, of the occupation. It's a city which is literally divided between Muslims and Jews. The settlers here are some of the most hardcore. To avoid further angering the Palestinians, the Israeli government rarely lets them expand their community or build new homes. I'm here to meet Yishai Fleisher and Noam Arnon, two representatives for the Jewish community of Hebron. The Jews in Hebron today are in a ghetto. Jews are forced to live in three percent of the town. What my Arab friends tell me is that most people don't want a Palestinian state or entity. They want to be under Israeli sovereignty. Many Palestinians would say that Noam and Yishai are simply using you for Pro-Israel propaganda. How do you respond to that? For both of you, is it worth the bloodshed and the conflict? What you perceive as bloodshed and conflict, we see as the end of 2,000 years of bloodshed and conflict. Today, in all of the wars of Israel, it's less than 2 days at Auschwitz, so to us, we actually see a time of great peace. But how do you reconcile that with the Palestinian citizens of Israel? Can they be equal to Jews? No, not in my opinion. I don't deny democratic principles, I just say they have to yield to Zionist, Jewish principles first, then, of course, cater to democracy. But that's not the first principal in my opinion. We're in the Palestinian side of Hebron. Behind me you can see the IDF. They're not supposed to be here, but they kind of do what they want. Do you think Jews have a right to live Where will the Israelis go? I feel sad, man, I feel sad. Hearing every single story, I felt sad. Even the story of the settlers, because I feel like they missed the mark. They missed the story of Abraham. They missed the spiritual lesson of what it's all about. I'm just curious if these two sides could even talk. I'm about to go meet Rabbi Hanan Schlesinger. He's one of the leaders of this NGO group called Roots, which brings Israeli settlers and Palestinians together for dialogue. So I came to this land for my story, and it took me 37 years to realize that there's another story. And now my mission in life is to help both peoples appreciate there are two stories here. And they're real and they're human and they're legitimate. I got an invitation to come to this place to meet Palestinians. I was apprehensive, perhaps even frightened... didn't know what would happen to me. I walked in and one of the Palestinians got up and he said a lot things about the rigors of living under Israeli occupation. That was the first time in my life I heard someone use the word &quot;occupation.&quot; It was so different from everything I know, everything I could imagine! So I was confused, and I was upset, and I was challenged, and I began a process that made me into what I'm becoming today. Suppose a Palestinian was here. They'd say: "How can you not have seen me, I was there all along. You're giving yourself a pass!" The closer you are, the less you see. The attitude of colonial America to the Indians... the attitude of America to the blacks. We've done things -- we, I mean human beings -- and 20 years later: "How could you have done that, didn't you see!" The way that my people are settling Judea and Samaria is unfortunately coming at the expense of the Palestinian people. I think that's a fact. For many settlers, the redemption of the land is the only way to make Israel's soul whole and pure again. And yet, the irony is, I believe, that Israel is on the verge of losing its soul by redeeming the land, by expanding, by creating more settlements. I see Israel and Palestine hijacked by absolutists from all sides. As the world is burning, those two will be dancing together. I'm going to raise them Muslim. It's up to them whether or not they want to be Muslim. I don't want them to be animated or fueled either with a zealous love or a hate inspired by buildings or land like I see it happening here. I hope they see beyond that.