On the border of Cameroon and Nigeria, this village is threatened daily the most deadly terrorist organization To protect themselves, the villagers have created a militia Mostly, they rely on the soldiers This isolated outpost is commanded by Lieutenant Dang. We are at the outpost in Din Din. Every morning, Commanding officer, quick, quick, quick! At the ready. The outpost is even equipped The lieutenant knows This is Nigeria ahead of us. There are houses you see right there. How many meters? Two hundred, 300 meters. My job is to secure the border so people can live in peace. We're on the lookout around the clock, whether for suicide bombers What if someone comes up to you? If someone comes up to us, If they're threatening, Boko Haram, no way, not here, Boko Haram, your days are numbered. Boko Haram is tens of thousands who are spreading terror The movement began in northern Nigeria, an area that doesn't enjoy as the Christian oil-rich south. Boko Haram has also its leader, Abubakar Shekau, a very dangerous man. Today our religion is to kill, [Arabic spoken audio] As we see in these propaganda videos, and declares war on the entire world Obama, Francois Hollande, The infidels of the world We follow the orders [Arabic spoken audio] Shekau and his 30,000 jihadists They ruthlessly cut the throats to terrorise the public. It was on April 14th, 2014 that Boko Haram That night, one of their commandos in the city of Chibok all girls aged 12 to 17. A few days later, Boko Haram broadcast They were reciting Muslim prayers. [Arabic spoken audio] One hundred and sixty-five of them but they were forced to convert. -Are you Christian? Now you're Muslim. The kidnapping caused a stir worldwide. The general public came together Michelle Obama was very moved Millions of people across the globe, my husband and I are outraged over the kidnapping Even Hollywood mobilized At the Cannes Film Festival, the stars showed solidarity All this talk I can confirm, I intend to sell them God instructed me to do this. Starting from Nigeria, the Islamists began attacking Parts of Chad, Niger, We'll carry out the investigation as close as possible We will follow the soldiers Will you cross the bridge? Protect them. Move forward. We will talk with those A man from Boko Haram said: Just kill him. He shot my husband dead. We will also hear firsthand reports I lost my eye, it was horrible. We will see jihadists captured in combat. -Welcome. He's a hostage of Boko Haram Then I heard them try the door handle. It was locked, so they shot it off. I thought we were not going The evil and violence We will follow a priest on a daily basis. We must stay here. Our investigation begins in Diffa in the southeast of Niger It's in the heart of Boko Haram land. For Diffa, we have to land virtually, Can you see it? Diffa, a small town, They were beaten back each time. On the tarmac, Faced with Boko Haram, a coalition of African countries Niger, Chad, Cameroon, and Nigeria. We travel under escort The base is very active. This morning there were reports A pickup truck combs the surroundings. They're trying to infiltrate Niger. I'm in charge The soldiers are well-armed They've just received It's in this building that the military leaders of the coalition Chadian and Nigerian officers arrive. More surprisingly, we see the arrival As we can see, they are already acquainted They are not the only Western soldiers. Two French officers arrive next, a commander seconded further north in the Sahel, Faced with the rise of Boko Haram, France and the US have placed some men They are surprised and prefer not to talk to us. Everyone is waiting for this man, the leader of the Fifth Military Region, who controls the operations Every day, the Colonel takes stock Our goal is to rid our border completely We know that this is a dangerous task. They have a foothold in Nigeria, and they still have the means We are continuing because it's essential, and I know we have what it takes The Colonel's problem is finding out Right now, we don't know exactly. If we knew, then the war would be easy. This is someone who's constantly moving and rarely spends two nights He communicates very little, which makes it difficult to catch him. I don't think We can see in the videos How could he have peace of mind, considering all the atrocities At the end of the meeting, Are Nigerians the only ones fighting? There are allies too, their friends, the Chadians, the French, the Americans. No, the French army helps out The French military conducts intelligence, pooling their information while the Americans use drones They help us with reconnaissance missions using their planes. This has enabled us to intervene -They find them and you destroy them? -Have you had success? Do you do precision bombing? That's right, tit for tat. Americans do more Inside this enclosure, Behind the barbed wire, They are training Among the soldiers Boko Haram is dismissed I describe them as drug addicts. These people are thugs. You don't kill your Muslim brother, They're assholes, hypocrites of Islam. I'll say it again, hypocrites of Islam. Hypocrites against which these soldiers For them, it's impossible to stand aside Just a few days ago, the Islamists made an attempt When we arrived there sitting in foxholes. They sleep here because they fear In these foxholes, and we can defend ourselves. We can shoot accurately -Where's the border? Two scouts, go ahead. The Nigerian officer sends men to find enemy soldiers Clear the bridge. Remove the obstacles. Here's the Komadugu river They tried They tried but we beat them down and drove them away. The proof is the corpses they left behind. Spread out in front. It's possible... It's possible we're being watched That's why we always survey the area. On this side of the river, Nigeria begins. Now we're in Nigeria. Protect them. It's the territory of Boko Haram. There's a corpse. The officer knows that jihadis The latest attack took place here The bodies of Boko Haram soldiers Often when they fight us, How can you tell that they're on drugs? That's right. Even when you wound them, It's not over Do they shoot in you? They have their tactics, They want to win at all costs. This is a very dangerous group. Someone who takes drugs, then slits throats It's impossible. What they do is incomprehensible. Religion has never condoned these actions. It is terrorism. They need to be wiped out. This battle did not only result in deaths. The Nigerian soldiers were able They captured these members of Boko Haram Now, they are prisoners before being transferred to the capital. This is Boko Haram, shirtless, shoeless. Stand up. They obey the prison guards Move forward. Returning to their cells, It's the opposite of how they are violent and deadly. They're not the only ones. The Nigerian Army has also been accused of serious acts of violence One case in particular In 2014, Boko Haram attacked a barrack The prisoners were released but they were quickly The Nigerian military recaptured and executed 640 of them. Many of them were not soldiers More seriously, that the human rights organization the soldiers carried out Remain seated, These images were obtained Here, prisoners are beaten to death. Here, on the skin of their captive. Here, the military executes men in mass graves dug Back in Diffa in Niger During Boko Haram's attack, the main target Since then, Inside, the governor continues When we captured we found a map on which the governor's residence The military base and the guards, when they set out to eliminate people, The governor questions Do they really want an Islamic state? It's because to have that, What will be left for them to control if they're burning down cities You can't negotiate with criminals. In the military camp, For Colonel Moussa Barmou, it's mealtime. He eats with his officers. Tonight, his troops are in battle. They want to recapture a small town The operations room is adjacent Okay, here's the situation. In Gashga, Then these assholes reacted The battle against Boko Haram Soldiers returned from the border. We're back from the front, This is ammunition that we took It's a souvenir. The soldiers shared these images with us Some equipment is brand new. On this Chadian truck, a state-of-the-art rocket launcher we see Western advisers probably employed by the United States. The pickup trucks move forward We hear the sounds of mortars, The attack has begun. The battle lasts three hours. The Islamists will abandon the village. It's a victory. In the morning, On the road to the airport, we passed several French On the tarmac, French commandos protect the unloading the capital of neighboring Chad. To reach the theatre of operations, we board one The aircraft flies which marks the border. We land in Nigeria Lieutenant Colonel Toumba commands Apparently, his men managed Their food was still hot They were just about to eat, They've committed atrocities Ten days ago, People have been forced to leave the city. The Nigerian soldiers are satisfied. Did you take part in the battle yesterday? -Yes. No, they couldn't withstand us, They don't have the skill, They answer their charges everywhere, This is a Dragunov rifle. -How far away can you shoot? -Have you already shot at Boko Haram? -Wounded or dead? One in the eye, another here, and another here. -With one bullet? Since then, but the soldiers are wary. Boko Haram usually leaves some soldiers This morning, the military wants to ensure I'm ready to fight. The buildings that burned the night before The convoy takes narrow dirt alleyways between walls Move forward. The patrol ends by foot. Clearly, the soldiers have not been back What do you fear the most right now? Being taken by surprise. You, go alone, run and take position fast. Get behind me. After an hour spent patrolling, Boko Haram seems to have fled. The civilians who come back if we're here, they're our brothers, We're defending the integrity We're proud of that. We leave Nigeria. Faced with several months Boko Haram will avoid carrying out They will change their tactics. The war will now take place We go there. For Islamist fanatics, but a caliphate in the heart of Africa Their target in recent months At the airport, to the Cameroonian troops. The army is on the alert. Boko Haram has infiltrated the city. Someone needs to go with him. Europeans are rare here An escort will stay by our side To protect us, The police's main concern The number of these attacks is increasing, Police put up posters with specific instructions This allows civilians and take precautions to avoid explosions. The poster details Tired eyes, Their hand grasping an object You can even learn that suicide bombers in preparation for their entry to heaven. There's a freephone number, 1500, that anyone can call. Often, it's civilians to law enforcement agencies. These precautions date back when a suicide bombing in the city's fabric market left 13 dead In the emergency room of the hospital, the medical staff is overwhelmed. Survivors are lying on the floor The city is in shock. In a generally peaceful area, this small Christian community It's Sunday morning, time for mass. The priest, Father Antonio is Spanish. Outside, volunteers search parishioners They even search young children. One of Boko Haram's tactics Sometimes, the bombers use small children. They put a bomb on them Children don't understand what it is. That's why we check everyone. The evil and violence We saw it in Paris The violence affects everyone. During the service, He ensures that no terrorists throw bombs or fire from the street into the church. Since we began guarding the market, we've killed many people. We've had to take matters What's your biggest fear? The terrorists more than anything. In Maroua, it's not only Christians The town has a mostly Muslim population and they've already been hit repeatedly In the street leading to the mosque, Car bombs pose a threat. Here too, a vigilance committee frisks From a balcony, there's even a watchman There are people Everyone needs to be checked. Do people accept being checked? Yes, they accept it, Hey, you with the bag, stop right there. He has a big bag, I don't trust bags. That's how we work here. The guards also worry about women hiding explosives They forbid them to wear the burqa. Only headscarves are allowed These precautions from striking whenever they want. That's what happened Terrorists placed a bomb Her body was severed in half at the waist Did she set off the bomb herself, It was a carnage. Twenty people died instantly, It all happened A group of regulars were gathered At 2:00 PM, the explosion. The wall still bears marks from the blast. The cafe owner's table is still there. His sons, Bashir and Yusuf often pass I heard the explosion. I was close by, but when I arrived, Then they were taken to the hospital. Our bodyguards are on the alert A man in a djellaba approaches. They check him. It's a member of the Vigilance Committee. The man belongs He is responsible On the attack day, he was one as soon as he heard the explosion. It was a sound It made so much noise. There were dismembered parts everywhere. The bodies were thrown 50 or 100 meters. An arm was found in a neighbor's house. Oumate takes us to a house A man has lived there in seclusion It's a miracle he survived. Mr. Mustafa is a friend of mine. He was there at the explosion, I have a fracture and wound here. I lost my eye. It was horrible. Mustafa Ali will never forget the moments nor his lost friends with whom he was talking We were discussing My favorite team is Marseille. One was for Paris, We were chatting It was at that time A beggar girl came up to us My friend, Mr. Boubakar, He was killed by the explosion. It's a sect. They're brainwashed, so they're prepared to do anything. Prepared even to die. Those closest to the front line in the fight against Boko Haram the Rapid Intervention Brigade. They were trained by the Israeli army. Their camp lies just outside the city. Commander Milate, Chief of operations, Suicide bombers What's the profile? The widow of a soldier who then separates from her family for a time ranging She'll have a thorough indoctrination They'll give her training in explosives. Then finally, and then she'll be sent into action. Faced with suicide bombings, the BIR is adapting When I search them, I'm looking for evidence For you, is a SIM card More important than a weapon. A phone card might have information, and phone calls that we can trace so we can know who he's in contact with, This morning, the BIR is receiving For DNA tests, you rub from the bottom up. To fight against Islamic infiltration, a computer database It's like criminal investigation work. That's right, who are no longer required We're exploiting new technology. The most troubled zone today is the northern part the Kolofata region. We go there. Boko Haram frequently conducts raids there in the heart In the fall of 2014, jihadists burned the houses killing several people It was behind this wall Seyni Boukar, or Lamido as they say here. After 76 days in captivity, the mayor was released With him were ten Chinese workers All hostages were unharmed Since then, the king has taken refuge 250 kilometers away in Garoua, Hello, welcome. Please come in. He shows us pictures where his brother and executed by the Islamists. Here are the rooms where it took place. The holy man lived on the left. He taught religion to the children. He was killed in front of his Quran. On the right was my brother who was staying with us at that time. He was also murdered in cold blood. This is the youngest of the hostages. You can sit by me. His wife and six of his children A miracle they are still alive. The family will never forget the day Jihadists attacked their home in Kolofata. I heard them yell: &quot;Allahu Akbar.&quot; The Boko Haram battlecry. I heard them try the door handle. It was locked, so they shut it off. I thought we were not going The family was taken to Nigeria, in the Sambisa Forest, home to Islamist camps. This is where these propaganda videos Boko Haram is made up There were many people. It's not an exaggeration to say that there were, at least, The couple was not abused, We saw people headed to a location as if they were going but they were going to an execution point. Executions had to be done publicly. We saw other captives I heard the spectator's cries of victory. When you see other captives being killed, If you're considered an accomplice the army or the administration, they will decapitate you. They are convinced will be a bonus in paradise. They believe that the West for the last 300 years, and that now it's time For them, it's a global movement. If you look at their flag, They told the Chinese: &quot;We already have Muslims They even asked them when they returned. When I translated the question, I said to them: After I explained, they understood. Since the King mayor's abduction, military operations Distance is 50 meters minimum. Risk of ambush. In Kolofata, Their camp has been subjected to several attacks They are on a war footing I think they should wait for us This is their leader. The two of us will go in this vehicle. Commander Kweni Betus is leaving this morning He counts on everyone being ready Every military convoy represents Attention all task force, Take the main road, move forward. Many vehicles are equipped The convoy will travel nine kilometers to reach Keraoua on the Nigerian border. Boko Haram soldiers are using it Boko Haram filmed most of their attacks The films show with weapons and ammunition abandoned Allahu Akbar. It is thanks to this arsenal Four days ago, just minutes before the commander's convoy He wants to show us the exact location. When stopped, we are more vulnerable He deploys his men Where was it exactly? The landmine was placed here so that the vehicle would go over it The landmine may seem very small, We were informed by some sources That's how we were able to find it We arrive at the village of Keraoua, Hi guys, how are you? This is one of the jihadist and expanding their territory These checkpoints have been implemented to reduce the risk of suicide attacks Despite these efforts, we've had trouble, -When was that? We'll stop here. The villagers have gathered in the square. This market was the scene The last one took place ten days ago. The villagers hate these Islamists Boko Haram are criminals and killers. They kidnap our girls. They kill our men. We are so worried. We Muslims pray for them to be wiped out. They are really bad people. They have no moral limits. They'll use pregnant women, Nothing is a transgression for them. We're prepared for this now. At our checkpoints, because we know A reminder to increase vigilance. We're approaching the border. If the enemy is present, this will be an opportunity The border is about 100 meters there where the armored vehicle is. This is one of the main entry points The final meters to the border The officer chooses If we are targeted by Boko Haram, he and his men Everyone, maximum vigilance. We walk in the footsteps He enters by the dry riverbed Nigeria begins here. Now we're at the mayo, which marks the separation and Keraoua, Nigeria. On the other side, but looks can be deceiving. Boko Haram could be hiding there. Are there Nigerian security forces there? No, currently there is no security Let's go up to the platform The other side of the border The commander does not want This is a location that was originally occupied and then the army was forced and it became controlled by Boko Haram. The bullet holes you see After the fighting, and now there are Some civilians and probably We will not see them today. -Hello, how are you? [French spoken audio] Are you okay? Children are the future of the country. We hope that our work will help them The officer has just been warned I've been told that there are 20 soldiers They want to cause trouble, well, I say: Accomplices in the village of our presence. The commander fears We have to watch the foot traffic. We have to limit contact with civilians, with everyone. How would we know if they had a bomb? He is suspicious of everyone. You there, move to one side. Lift your shirt. Turn round. Lift again. Okay, you can move forward. Do you do this routinely Yes, we do this automatically who are going toward Kolofata. -Are they okay? It's fine. Is it aggravating It's fine. It allows them to see like a bomb. Without checkpoints, The commander prefers -Has our presence here been noticed? They're very much aware of it We leave the BIR. We return to Maroua The priest is one of the last Europeans but he doesn't want to give in to fear. After mass in the sacristy, Praying is important, my brother Patrick. We pray because we're at war. We're threatened. Do you represent the devil for Boko Haram? We represent a lot of things but that's how it is. -Because you're a foreigner? From a culture where we have so much freedom. For them, Christians are a minority Islamic extremists Father Antonio knows the risks involved. If you let fear penetrate your heart, You can't stay here. We must stay here, it's decisive. More important than what we do with these people through difficult times. It's fighting them, which is complicated. The movement has sworn allegiance to ISIS, the terrorist group responsible These images, filmed by Boko Haram show hundreds of Chibok schoolgirls who appear to still be alive. Boko Haram's leader, Abubakar Shekau, as this video seems to reveal. On the contrary, other combatants appear to call