Hey , ah , ah, ah, help , help, there is a ghost in the five buckets and five buckets. Such a big head, such a long hair, slapped me around and farted loudly, scaring me to death. You squatted behind me , hahaha . Damn, this is so fucking haunted . There are weird things here, everyone, be careful, yes , ah, ah, ah , ah, ah , ah, ah , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah . Look, it's a ground whistle , and this spider is quite big. I don't care if it's a ghost or a spider. It's not okay to kill my weak sister. You saw a good place brought by foreigners . Well, this is too damn evil . We all have to leave. Let's go together and wait a minute. If we go back the same way we came, we will end up in a dead end. The only way to survive is to go forward. Everyone, listen to me and don't back away. No one is allowed to say hello. Brother, don't worry . Run, run, run, run. Come on , come on, senior sister, senior sister , senior sister, are you okay ? Help, hurry up and save people . Five Dou. There is a hole here . Come on. Five Dou. Those who are coming are bad. Even the Gu worms can't stop them. Come on, , go on. Come on, give me the torch. Everyone, hurry up and find it. Exit: Didn't your teach you not to touch things when you go to other people's homes? It seems like it's been a long time ago. People in ancient times didn't like roads that can lead to death. There should be a secret door nearby to let you out. Everyone, hurry up and split up to find something. Why are you so owed? Can this be opened? It's over . Are we going to die here? What did I say ? We should have withdrawn just now. What should we do now ? If I had known this, no matter how much money I paid, I wouldn't be able to come. Since the establishment of the Anjing Ship Gang, they have laundered gold, buried people, fished out corpses, and guarded the tomb. The four sects have been inherited on the Yellow River to protect the water, soil and mausoleums according to the requirements of their ancestors. It has always been the mission of the boat gang to develop freight. Whenever the time of floods in the Yellow River approaches , it is the boat gang's rule not to release the boat. But last night, Lai Lao was the master and apprentice. The two privately set off the boat and met a thousand coffins crossing the river. They died on the Yellow River, hiking on the mountain road and walking on the waterway. At night, Jinshui . The river god is angry. Our boat gang has been able to pass on for thousands of years by knowing how to advance and retreat. Since the river god is angry, we have to worship the god and sacrifice the river. The roujiamo is here. Little Douye heard that the gods and sacrifices are being worshiped by the river. Why don't you go ? What's the hurry ? The river god doesn't want to see the starving ghosts. Besides, this worship of gods and sacrifices must be about three soldiers and three methods. One is to fish out the corpse. The general's drum, the second one is the ship where the dead man is buried, and the most important one is the third one. It is said that no one can do it. To do these things well depends on people. Spells, spells, spells , spells , raise the anchor and throw down the sacred cow. It's force! Five buckets, look what that is. Everyone , be careful . Is it okay ? It's okay . Come on , save people . Pull the rope and lean on me. Come on, grab the rope. Come on . Come up . Don't panic. What are the rest of you guys afraid of ? It's just a fish. Isn't it? The boss can't inspire him to let go. Are you crazy? Why are you still standing there? Your beard is stuck and you can't push hard . It's too dangerous. Why are you moving the car? I'm so brave. No bite. No bite. Eat mud. No bite. Eat mud. No bite. Who dares to help? I am a member of the Boat Gang. I will beat anyone who bullies him. They are bad. Close your ears and don't listen to what they say. Five buckets, five buckets, five buckets, five buckets, five buckets, five buckets , five buckets, five buckets, five buckets. Are you okay ? Three disciples , coffin boy, King of Hell, this time, Long. The prince owes you a life , but it's a good thing that Yao Er risked his life to fish you out, otherwise, the prince of hell would have taken your life. You don't need to be guarded if you are alive . Don't worry, the days will be long when you wake up. As the master, we have injured more than twenty brothers and died. 6 People in the town have learned about this and have a lot of opinions about the boat gang . They all say that you are not worthy of being the king of the boat gang. There is a foreigner outside. I don't believe anyone . He said it was your friend. Call him Fred and tell him. I'm not trying to get through Tongce. Hey, boss Guo . I heard from the brother who came back from the boat yesterday that the river has not been very clean recently. The old guy tried to think that he was drowned, right? This sunken-headed cow priest would be hungry. Master Heshan, if it weren't for Xiaoduoye. A lot of people died in the Boat Gang. I'm afraid I violated the Tai Sui rule in the river. It's not easy to make a living by releasing boats after the Boat Gang is finished. Why is there still a foreigner ? Everyone, there have been a lot of rumors in the town recently, some of which are directed at the Boat Gang. What is the reason for Gu ? Everyone must be well aware of the suffering of the shipping gang. That's why I sent the envoy. As the king of the ship, I have no shirk. Therefore, Gu found a good opportunity for everyone to make a fortune. My good friend, Boss Frazerfu, 8 years ago A batch of goods was lost in Longwangyan. He begged us to help find the goods. After the success, there must be a heavy reward to the foreigners. It 's not right . Isn't the old ship king just helping that willful man to build a new ship in Shegou? Yes. I can't trust foreigners, I just can't trust you guys I can't go. Boss Fu is my good friend for many years. I'll vouch for his character . What guarantee can you give to the reputation of the Ship King ? If any accident happens, the mother and father can't trust the Ship King. The Dragon King's position is always changing. The water is strong and dangerous, and shipwrecks are given to him. It is a forbidden place where there is no return. Last year, our group of people diving for rocks encountered the sudden appearance of the Dragon King's Eye, causing heavy casualties. Because Emperor Wu was approaching and there was abundant rain , the river could not quickly flow into the rivers and seas, causing a backflow. The Dragon King's Eye would appear, and now the Emperor Wu is here again. The journey must be extremely dangerous. Gods cannot take it lightly. I don't agree with Master Luo. You are right. We can't die in vain and work for the old wool man. Yes, yes. Master Tao, Master Wang, look down at the shoes you are wearing. Think about the fact that you are still hungry at home. Grandchildren, you are afraid of death. It doesn't matter if you question me , but can you bear to watch the descendants of the boat gang suffer viciously along with them? This is the top achievement of this operation. After it is completed, I will give you three times three times. In addition, Boss Fu has also prepared the best. With advanced equipment, I will also send the best boat from the Boat Gang to ensure that nothing goes wrong. There is also a map prepared by Boss Feng in advance to ensure that everyone returns safely this time. This matter has been decided. Don't worry about it. You are making fun of the lives of the brothers in the Boat Gang. I am. Ship King, listen to me . Haoran, let 's take the big job. Of course we have to go for such a good job. Why do you do this? If you don't make money, you are just a fool. Someone has paid for the equipment and the golden gold bars are in front of you. Why don't you go? You have something to hide. What can happen to me? Wealth is in danger. I can't die with my life . Have you ever considered others? Grandpa, I will explain it to him. I know. I have thought about it. I have thought about it. There is a picture on that picture. This eye is the same as the Silicon Valley Dragon Brand that my parents left for me when I was a child. I want to try it. After so many years, you have been tracing your life experience , even giving up the position of King of Ships. I have told you everything I know about the Dragon King Eyes. What is left? It's up to you what you can find out. Dad, if I die in the eyes of the Dragon King, no one will care for you until you die. A river can't help itself where it goes. Maybe it flows to the sea, maybe it dries up in the ravine . I've lived for so long . Enough is enough and I have taken it lightly. However, your actions are more dangerous than good. You must be more careful. You must be more careful when teaching the Longyan Tibetan Sutra. Thousands of officials are rising in water, soil, and harmony. The two rites rotate in Yin and Yang County. The wild geese open water and move the golden book. The sword shows that our boat gang has a great relationship with Longwangyan. Previously, it was also affected by successive wars. As a result, the golden book and iron scroll of Chuan Gang Lixin were tragically lost. Only by uniting and adhering to the ancestral precepts can we and the boat gang stand firm. Lao Hai's ranking three gods can be here and there. They are running away to find the dragon and find the stone at the right moment. Ghosts in the underworld are worried. Ghost Burial Class Gate Immortal Mansion Three Immortals Returned to the Cave to Worship the Dragon Head Three Immortals Returned to the Cave to Worship the Dragon Head Immediately Departure How is the situation on the ship? Everything goes well. Take care of the brothers, hurry up. The wolf dog is here . Come and see, have you seen it? This is all equipment from Great Britain, out-of-print civil and military equipment. Hahahahahahahahahahaha Brother Zeng Hai, please lend a hand. Now everyone is talking about whether Mr. Kojima is the ship king of the ship king. How can I be the master ? Since ancient times, shipwrecks have worked hard for me . I don't have to worry about my life, etc. When you come back this time, I will arrange a comfortable job for you . I have promised you. I didn't expect you to come to help me. I just don't want to see some people unable to come back. The sky is thunderous and the wind breaks through the fork in the southeast twelve miles and kills ghosts in the southeast ten. Killing ghosts on Erlicha Road, killing ghosts on Fork Road, you can determine the direction with such a simple thing, extraordinary , what do you know? Yin-Yang, Fengshui, Bagua, Dou Xiu are all simple principles. Why don't you give me some money? Grandpa will show you. Money stuff, oh my God, this is Guillotine Cliff. This place is too spooky. You can't really be beheaded. Bah, bah , bah. Don't talk nonsense . Senior sister, Zha Mao, hurry up and cross the road. Don't delay. You're ready. Don't worry. Hahaha . Senior Dude, this thing called a diving suit that can go into the 50-meter ocean does not work here. This is the Yellow River. Hey, hey, hey, this is a lung-throwing thing . Can you see it? A hook-nosed chicken-feather costume. Hum , you are pretending to be chicken-feather in front of Lord Dragon . Lord Dragon, he doesn't. I got it , you guys, what's going on ? Is this intentional? It's a bit long. Hold back, put on your equipment , and kill the time . Come on, come on , come on, the iron is in chaos. Be careful , don't hold me tight , ah , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, second-hand, second-hand Are you okay ? Come on , senior sister. Are you okay? This place is unusual. Everyone is okay. Are you injured ? It's okay. Can you go? Senior sister, are you okay? Oh, this is not what I grew up eating. The legendary Iron-Headed Dragon King is He survives by eating corpses floating in the river, so he is as big as a mountain. Don't tell me , it's disgusting. The Dragon King is also at the gate of hell. Everyone, cheer up . It's about 30 steps from here to the other side. Yes, take the elevator. Yes , hurry through. Lao Gu, let me lead the way first. Pay attention to safety. Slow down. Slow down. What's the sound ? Don't talk nonsense. Let 's go quickly . There are 12 points on it , which are 12 ways to break. In other words, there are 12 locks nested layer by layer. Can you solve it? I'll give it a try. You have to cooperate with me. Xuanwu is a turtle and a snake. If I guessed it right? Wrong, the locks in the two should be matched one by one to unlock it. It is classified as Han History. After the reversal, the corresponding history is slash . What is the corresponding slash? Chen Shi, Chen Team, Kun He Team, Wei Wei, Team Training, grabbed the senior sister and succeeded. Ha. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaer Are my legs ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh help Come on, help me. I can't stand it . Drink. You 're not hurt. Let's see. I'm okay. I'm okay. I just don't know where senior sister is now. I don't know how they are doing. Don't worry. I'm here. Senior sister, he must be okay. You guys go and check first. If there is anything going on while exploring the road, please report immediately. First the whistle, then the spider and the strange silver carp. This is not an ordinary place. Looking at the terrain of the rice field just now, we are afraid that we have entered an ancient tomb. What do you think? Three pictures, three pictures, friends, are you okay? I'm sorry, why is it so serious? When I was 12 years old, I always drowned for the first time. They all said I was dead because of this sentence. I lived. When I was 17 years old, they all said I couldn't be the master of the teacher's sect . Just for one breath, I became Now I know that I might die if I come here, but I have someone. I'm here, Wu et al. I just want you to tell the truth. If you want to steal me , just treat me as dead. Mengyao , I'm here. This is for my life experience. Flett brought it. The Dragon King Eye treasure information has the same glasses pattern as the dragon plate in Silicon Valley. I think maybe I can find my mother here. I need to know who I am. I never care who you are . Why do you hide it from me? I want you to live as long as you are here. Only then can I live well. Little Dao Ye Wen, leader, there is no road in front of us. There is only one Guaizilou. We dare not go in and walk alone in the future. I can't spare you. The mainland is good. Judging from the material of the gunshots and the ring patterns on the ground, this looks like a Handan tomb. This is not far from our fortress. Wait a minute. He just said this is a tomb. You actually brought brothers from the Sichuan Gang to block the tomb. This must be a misunderstanding . What did you do earlier? What did you say when you came? You were just helping Lao Mao Mao in the Dragon King Wild Tiger. Now that so many brothers have died , I am still uncertain about my life or death. You actually want to go to this old wool to find a ball of treasure , Sanliang. What are you going to do? I can't go back to find the dance. Now we must act together. Sanliang. Brothers are dead. I am a ship. Wang is the most heartbroken . Listen to me. Find a way out first and then talk about it. Hey , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, where is A Bin, you heard me tell him to understand, Sichuan, stay steady, follow me, don't run. There are many dead bodies. It seems that many people have been here. They must be earth dragons. The Yellow River changed its course and destroyed many ancient tombs. These ancient tombs were buried under the river bed. Many earth dragons had the idea of taking the ancient tombs. Mr. Dou was moved. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhh now we only have one fire dragon, which uses the difference in weight to send people up one by one. I need everyone to cooperate with me 1 2 3 Uh-huh, hahaha , ah, An'an Fu, boss, come up 3 Liang , come up quickly, let An Ran go first Go up to Anran, obey me, hurry up, don't waste time, you two go up first , ah, tiger fight, tiger fight, save me, Luo Yao, tiger fight, save me, tiger fight, tiger fight, I'm waiting for you, Ari , listen to me. I'll count to 3 and you'll jump. Ah, no, if you don't leave, I won't leave either . Ari, I have a lot of ideas. Come on , this place has collapsed . We can't leave. We have to save them first . San Chong . If you waste time with me again, I'll take you to the Second Sichuan and Hundongzhai. Everything is out, how did you find this place ? Didn't I tell you ? Didn't I tell you that I would pay the debt next month ? No no no no It's not a debt, it's a debt. You owe me a gambling debt. I am now No money , yes, yes, oh, I heard that the current situation of the Boat Gang is very bad. Boss Gu has been scolded a lot. What can I say ? If they know that King Sichuan wants to use the Sichuan Gang to pay off gambling debts, don't force me, my friend. I 'm not here to fight for you. I'm here to give you money. Well, you actually sold the ship king. You don't deserve to be the ship king. Either they die or you die. Me , two soft , two soft, two people , Hu wait, Hu wait, Hu wait , my, I'm worried about Shandong. Hu Dong, you are alone and have fallen into hallucinations. No, now, who are these people? They have broken our puppetry and the mechanism in the tomb one after another. They are not Liuzi nor the earth dragon who robbed the tomb, but they are not good people. Grandpa Shan, what should we do? What should I do? Hurry up and see if they can't enter the forbidden area . Yeah , there are ghosts behind me . Follow my orders. Throw away the beam. There is more than one cover. Yeah , don't move . Don't move . God and ghosts . Two strikes. Throw them out. Go away. Grain inspector, do you know the word &quot;Fu&quot; ? Which one should I use to cut? First scold the colored strips and touch the ribs. Dare you ask the Turtle Immortal for other tips ? Well, then you let me go first, Grandpa Shan. Stop it. This is the place of death of all the tomb-guarding sect masters. The teacher, the general, the fugitive killer, the ghost burial master, and the tomb-keeper. I have only heard it mentioned by the elders in the sect for so many years, but never before. Have you seen the other people in the door? We, the tomb gatekeepers, have been guarding here for generations. There are many deaths and few injuries . There are not many people left. Sister Shi, why are you here? We are looking for people. How come you have this? This is the tomb guard. You know the door girl's token, how come you have this? This was worn on me when I was a child. I was picked up in the river. I think it was left to me by my parents . I came here to find my parents' compatibility. It turns out this is real , brother or sister. Come with me . This is the unmarked tablet of Master Narcissus, the saint who guards the tomb gate. There are two Silicon Valley Dragon Tablets in total . Only the saint guarding the tomb gate is qualified to keep one. The other one was passed down and put into his son's infancy by Master Narcissus and then disappeared. Master Narcissus was the only one who ignored the rules of the family and fell in love with an outsider and had children. He was punished by being sent to hell to sacrifice his ancestors and not be named . The captive genealogy is quick. This was a big taboo within the family , but the master secretly gave birth to the child in seclusion . However, it was eventually discovered that the doorkeeper guarding the tomb door was a saint. She was not allowed to marry and have children. If she was found, she would be executed to sacrifice to the river god. I am a guard. The token at the tomb door should be returned to its original owner. We got separated from the big boss, and we have brothers from the Xue Chun gang . Please help me find my senior brother. Don't worry , Grandpa Shan is here. As long as they are still here, they will be able to find it . Don't worry, I'll keep it in the old man's body. Thank you, let's go look for it separately. Hey, I finally found it in front of you. Wait a minute. You always knew that there is an ancient tomb under the Dragon King, right ? Yes, but so what. All you and I want are the golden explosions in the ancient tomb. A shiny explosion. You are taking advantage of me. I worship the ancestral teachings. No one is allowed to rob the tomb. No no no. I am helping you, but you are forcing me to kill someone. If others find out, I will be ransomed by the boat gang. If I go out, You won't have a good life if something goes wrong. Then kill a few more people. No one can get out alive except us . The dead will not reveal secrets. Anger can make a person lose his mind. Boss Guo is countless before your eyes. Qing's gold and silver treasures are very thick , continue to be your poor ghost boat king, you are a smart person, hahahahahahahahahahahahahahalong King Tibetan hahaha finally let me find hahaha . It is strictly forbidden to enter , junior sister , stop , junior sister, avenue chief , are you okay ? What's going on , Mr. Wu ? I 'm my own person. This is the ship king I'm telling you. Ship king Gu Da is in charge. The ship gang guards the tomb gate. Miao Qi'er has seen the ship king guard the tomb gate . This is the ancestral land of the Chuanbang. Yes, the ancestral land is a restricted area. We guard the tomb gate and guard it all our lives. We are not allowed to take half a step out of the ancestral land , and no one is allowed to step into the restricted area. The ancestral land and the ancient tomb are both restricted areas for the ship nation . Turtles can't violate this. Let 's stop here. Let's go back. Hey , Ruan and the others are three or two. I don't know. We are separated . I'm going to find them quickly. Stop here. I paid. You must take my goods now. My goods. Just right there, no, I don't allow it . This is the suspect I boarded with you, the old school from Shipwang Valley, before setting off. Pass my order to each of you. I'll see if any of you dare to move unless you step over me. What do you want to do? The rules are set now. The boat gang is in trouble, some sacrifices must be made, get out of the way, this is an order, Gu Yong , yes, stop , don't blame me , ah , ah, you are my miracle doctor, Longyan, Hidden Well, Guanqi, peaceful water and soil, and Bianjinglong. Are you okay, little stupid pig master , master master? Ah hahahahahahahahahahahaha, the third grandfather , the third grandfather and the third grandfather, it turns out that this is really the three things of your boat king, how can you take you away ? Hahahaha, this is God's will. I am the real shipping king. You don't deserve to lose your conscience. You are already dead, right? I can't die yet. I want to kill you to avenge Ah Ruan. What happened to Commander Ah Ruan? He killed Ah Ruan. Ah Ruan. Ah Ruan was the one who killed him. You killed so many ship gang brothers. You are not worthy of being the ship king. I was forced to do so. I want to kill you, you are here, Xiaoxian can't leave, ah, don't let me die. In my spring dream, you are as close as brothers, good parents, and reasonable parents . Three pets help everyone , filial piety is the first, righteousness is the last, righteousness is the last, life and death. I'm a gangster, I 'm a gangster , I 'm a gangster, I'm a gangster, I'm a gangster, I'm a gangster, anyone can be punished. This is destiny. This is Ruan's. This belongs to three and two. This is for the group gang. This is for me. He is from the boat gang. I will beat anyone who bullies him. Hahahahahahahaha But what should I do next when my sister dances ? Everyone, listen to me. Take the waterway, Pingchuanzhuang, stand a little further, stand a little farther , yes, yes, smile, I can do this, okay, okay?