[SC3K music plays] The 90s sure were a good time to be into city concept, SimCity 2000 had me utterly obsessed genre was solidified for life with the third game. 1999 for Mac OS and Windows PCs. And while it was the first mainline entry produced under Electronic of 1997 through a $125 million stock swap. And killing Maxis. They wouldn't do that till later! point in their history, providing a much-needed seen an operating loss of nearly $2 million for year over year. They were largely coasting on and failing to turn a profit releasing games Marble Drop, Full Tilt Pinball, The Crystal not to mention big riskier projects, like The ever finished and only burned up resources. The so it was no surprise that in 1996 Maxis greenlit the initial iteration featured full 3D cities, were the star of 1996's SimCopter. And and I believe only, public appearance at E3 in but I was thrilled to find this snippet of with the ability to zoom down to street level, and micromanage individual businesses like never back then, showing some brief images of what and well. It's clear to us now that this 90s PC hardware. But I was blissfully unaware back discovering the World Wide Web, and anytime I was website for SimCity news. Which led to me finding Uncle Mark's, who had the best color printer of captivated by the concept of 3D city-building. wall for ages, sparking idealized fantasies of 3D dreams. I had no idea it was such a disaster! By an impractical dead-end mandated by Maxis yearning for a financial win for shareholders. Geoff Keighley, was how I first learned of the how Maxis higher-ups expected the next SimCity to knew it was infeasible with current tech. Quoting wanted the game to be 3D so much that it wasn't the game telling them it wasn't going to work.&quot; it, resulting in the shoddy showing at E3 Enter Electronic Arts! After the Maxis they wasted no time assigning Luc Barthelet the entire top-level management, sales, and but also the cancellation of SimCity 3000 in 3D. writing on the wall and wisely scrapped it. So he start over and spearhead production, making 3000 As for SimCity creator Will Wright? He wasn't and only received 'special thanks' and game. "It was a running joke around Maxis that for advice I would go running," said Wright the day they shipped SimCity 3000 was one of the have a team within Maxis that knows how to build to devote his time to working on Dollhouse, which He did just fine for himself. But yeah, SimCity with a much more successful showing at E3 in and they went all-out with a fantastic booth 3. The display featured a floor-to-ceiling city bottom of each building and play the new version upgrade to SimCity 2000 with the same dimetric upgraded resolution, and more detailed, higher but the preview was a hit with the press and fans over half a decade after SimCity 2000? Oh heck ogling every inch of this beautiful gatefold box also after I got my copy, this box is fantastic! just look at it, you know you want it, you the power trip of a lifetime just how you like classic disasters, real world landmarks, way more a Pentium 166 and 32 megs of RAM! Good golly run on my 233MHz AMD K6, I can tell ya that. But and only increased after opening the box. Which blue and gold CD-ROM. Along with all manner of EA Tiberian Sun, Creative's Sound Blaster line Audio Extensions. And this full-color catalog bangers from Bullfrog, Jane's, Origin, Westwood, later on. Ahh, more innocent times. Of course you cards. Which is really more of a booklet in the troubleshooting, all the hotkeys, and a section I also have this required reading from the time, good ol' cheatcc.com, it wouldn't be right with 106 monochromatic pages of delectable details quality Maxis manual, it doesn't go as all-out as developer commentary. That said, it does all it especially the sections detailing each in-game But playing is better than reading, so [intro video plays cheerfully] Ahh even 25 years later that intro ditty improves shenanigans. So after that simple yet pleasant options: start a new city, load an existing one, map. And of course, preferences, or options if you noticeable by its absence are scenarios, and yeah! SC3K had no scenarios at all on launch. starter towns, neither of which replace scenarios what they seem, just blank maps based on real starter towns are maps that have power, roads, important patterns." Good stuff for beginners to themselves. Of course, we're gonna start a new means entering your city and mayor name, choosing and simulation leniency, and three starting years: And for the first time you also get city size, or of tiles as SimCity 2000 and Large doubling that, simplified from SC2K. You can still randomly but instead of having individual tools to edit up top. Like rivers, oceanfronts, islands, lakes, with, and a llama telling you what to do! Or players may not know and basically saying "look it's the usual new city routine. Place a power sit back and watch it grow, while beginning to version when Unlimited exists? Mm yes, SimCity in May of 2000! Instead of expansion packs improves the SC3K experience all across the board. as it not only comes with lots of new features, the original to meet a deadline. For instance, as they always should've been. Plus a scenario Architect Tool, which was available for but only as a downloadable extra. It also lets including terrain, trees, and regional building unlimited quality! I love a good Wire-O reference. Ahh and anyone remember SimsVille? it came with this trailer for it on the Unlimited Back to 3000 though, and that core SimCity it's still primarily about zoning land in and industrial. With that RCI indicator in on how in-demand each zone is currently. And more variables to consider, starting with each light and dense returning from SC2K, and medium greater control over localized building height as time marches on and land value improves. preservation, making it so chosen zoned buildings does. Then there are light industrial zones, factories under the right conditions. Place 'em they'll spawn wheat fields and barns and rednecks and power flow has thankfully been simplified. power lines, to a degree. For longer distances, there's no need to place wires over roads anymore bubble of power around things now, so electricity water is similar, but different. In that you as they're laid, and there's no need to it spreads out more freely. One step backwards the only power plant that doesn't make a return fact that waterfalls no longer exist, those are terrain is more complex, with five possible Those absurdly steep mountainscapes so common with rolling hills more suitable for capitalizing something new affecting growth and demand is similar patterns to land value but is less about comes from stuff like efficient city services, and low crime without police oppression. But pollution, buildings with a stigma about them, negatively. Basically, land value is monetary and the more readily sims move in. So yeah, while the the news ticker, petitioners, and advisors fill interface now features a constantly-scrolling of nonsense too, this is a Maxis game, but seeing what immediately concerns people the most. which is where you now talk to city advisors. and the general populace. All kinds of evaluations on taxes and traffic, to petitions for city companies and nearby cities. Buying and selling water, and power frequently on the table. And it's overwhelming. I love it, but wow these can advisors provide feedback on every single one. as some advisors are fiscally conservative no tax incentive under the sun. So achieving some to budget, and strategies differ moment to moment. the city's aura, or the lack of parks and nature beautification here. On that note, my goodness 3000 holds up gracefully after all this time. gone with the old 3D concept, nothing compared work viewable at four different angles. And I dig vehicles and sims wandering around, this was such tree, and decorative object that spawns in feels work. Hundreds of buildings weaving together into and steel. And for the buildings you don't like alternatives on the fly. The presentation is and how the ground is now a grassy green instead SC3K lets you have the brown all around the fact that cities come together into something urban growth? It remains impressive, and is and music. The importance of ambient noise in a a bustling urban center isn't enough, I wanna [ambient city noises drone] Then take that lovely art and entrancing best game soundtracks, largely composed there's magic happening in this game, the [soundtrack plays and it's incredible] EA knew the soundtrack was stellar too, seeing CD in certain bundles! A disc that's become The music isn't just Jerry Martin of course, and they're all awesome. But I gotta shout out they've done a lotta good stuff I got I got into jazz in general from this soundtrack, performers! If you've ever wondered why I On an opposing note: garbage! SC3K introduces necessary addition to city sims in general. Trash facilities, with the initial landfill zones Eventually, incinerators, recycling centers, and all with their own trade-offs but disposing of ploppable buildings alongside the old standbys playgrounds, stadiums, marinas, and whatnot. Not especially in Unlimited. In addition to you can earn an ivory league university, an house, country club, lighthouse and more the addition of landmark buildings, which are and are free to place anytime to boost tourism. It But either way landmarks are a nice addition, alternate history. There are plenty of less like a defense contractor and military base, prison and so on. All controversial and risky, to deal with the devil. By that I mean namely Mr. Landgraab of Landgraab Industries. what you don't mind turning into the bad part of Speaking of which: disasters! Like UFO attacks, 2000's box art, and now in 3000 UFOs can float In general I appreciate how disasters like shown here, the presentation is more believable get trashed. Disaster relief is also enhanced orders sims inside, but provides extra emergency built locally. Though, for certain disasters like and space debris? There's not much to do beyond later. Sad to say floods and hurricanes got the flood anything, they just kinda suck up boats and those zones are still around and assist in Along with airports of course, a unique zone have those going, you'd really better have some you can do with roads. 3000 still only has basic direction. You can build avenues by placing roads double the cost, double the pollution, and double found that passing traffic control ordinances Along with trains and subways, and subway to resident use alike. Still no way here to create sure stations are near high traffic intersections sure they're worth the trouble. They add a ton that much, and placing them is iffy as balls. crossing highways results in a cubic mess. It is wonky interchange, but it takes up so much space expensive and cash runs out fast, especially in 2000. There's so much more to spend money on here, leading to a lot of sitting around waiting But if you do set yourself up for success, you'll One with oh-so-much slowdown on 90s systems. those glass cubes constantly as things load in at anymore, and really not all that much "endgame comes along is unlocking the spaceport, and blast Maxis game, dang it! But yeah, cities of over and well beyond that if you're an insane of genius/madman Vincent Ocasla back in the late million total population in a city that looks sense. And if coming up with such plans yourself guides! Not nearly as many as SC2K received in its were superb, with the 540-page Unlimited release screw strategy, you can always be more of a always has something sketchy yet profitable up his resources means you can effectively turn it I almost forgot, you can import city saves from you could also import original SimCity files into here too. Mm, three generations of city saves in As is built-in custom content support, in the with BAT Plus included in Unlimited here. It's a both pre-made and custom props, primitives, and never spent much time using it myself, I never the work others put into it, as seen back then on of thousands of custom buildings created by fellow in the form of building and landmark packs, ahh I I loved the game in general, and I was always Walmart edition with exclusive holiday content Europe. Each with seasonally-themed items and Unlimited. Which itself was tilted differently from Germany. Also known as the UK Edition in and World Edition practically everywhere else. It a rarity I had no clue existed till writing home consoles, though SimCity DS for the handheld for dual screen gameplay, but it really is SimCity seems to have been the full fat SC3K experience that's long been pulled from the app store, Thankfully though, the main PC game remains quite which sells on GOG.com at the time of recording. but it's worth seeking out some of the many fan scaling, edge scroll speed fixes and whatnot. makes this a worthwhile endeavor on its own. But regardless of how you're playing! There's a reason game to date, selling over 5 million units SimCity 2000! Extra impressive considering and 3000 was primarily on PC. And at this 3000 is my favorite of the whole series. And that playability, complexity, and overall feel. An adored growing up, and the later games I found hoo boy that game is a whole event and we certain sweet spot with 3000 that, to me, hits as I treasure SimCity 2000, going back to it is it sure was a great game for its time!" But with haven't felt in years. Then you're back and it's this is so good," and I end up just vibin' a break. Plus there's the difficulty balancing, requires more conscious effort and planning, out and the wheels properly greased, it's a tricky its entire presentation fuels my soul like later games in my mind, in terms of soundtrack forgettably sterile and sluggish 3D crapfest in goodness EA stepped in when they did. That's how an incredible game, go play SimCity 3000 again if [&quot;Power Grid&quot; from the OST plays] And if you liked this retrospective, I bet Classic. Or stick around for LGR things coming up, more retro coverage is continually in the