Look, of course it's a Slovenian beer country of the &quot;drugans&quot;, dragons on drugs. On this occasion Luisillo the fatty, our favorite chubby guy ventures to What do they eat on the streets of this adorable, little, out of a fairy tale territory? We're going to find out. Of course we couldn't be doing a Slovenian food special without a good sausage, the quintessential dish of these lands, from all over this region of the world. This sausage receives the name of klobasa and from what they tell me it has controversy involved. Klobasa is the recipe for this Slovenian sausage and today the word klobasa even has a designation of origin. Just as the tequila can only be from Mexico, the champagne can only be from France, klobasa can only be from Slovenia. They even had to go to court with the European Union to get the name and could say that klobasa is only from Slovenia. A whole story, a whole controversy. And it's the most normal thing to find these places on the streets, klobasarna. Which means the place of the klobasa, the sausage shop. It is a pork sausage that is accompanied with mustard and spicy radish. This one as it was served to me costs 5.90 euros. You think about it and it's 7 dollars for a sausage, 140 Mexican pesos. It may be expensive but let's remember that we are in Europe. Let's try our tasty klobasa, obviously It's brutal and if you finish it all I think it fills you up. Eith your 6 euros you will be quite satisfied. We will accompany our sausage with a little bit of the local beer. This one called union. Of course that it's a Slovenian beer because it has the little dragon in there. Slovenia is the country of the &quot;drugans&quot;. Dragons on drugs. Slovenia is the country of the dragons. Look at this beauty. I don't recommend it so much with the tremendous cold but look. At least drunk you forget about the cold. Cheers! It's a light beer, a standard lager, very succulent. [Music] This next dish is loved by the people around here. It's called burek and it's not really a dish from Slovenia, is more like Turkish cuisine but these guys have adapted very, very well. Actually one of the most famous fast food places, at least in the capital, in the city of Ljubljana is this place called Olympia 7 days a week. If you don't have anything to eat after the party, come for a burek in Olympia. And what's a burek? It is basically a spinach. There are various flavors, salty, sweet, which have an average price of 2.50 euro. These in particular cost 2.30 euros and supposedly they are a delicacie, a delight. I ordered one with cheese and one with meat, we'll see which is which. Let's open it, it's greasy. This is the cheese one, this one has cheese. They cut it like a slice of pizza, something like that. It doesn't look really substantial, I feel like I'm going to eat just dough, but we'll see, there's a reason people around here love it. Enjoy! [Music] Ok, the dough it's a little crunchy but soft at the same time. It is crunchy is when you bite into it and from there every time you chew it becomes completely soft. Very greasy, extremely greasy and It's actually good. I would describe the flavor as a four cheese pizza with some sweet notes. Like if the dough has a little bit of cinnamon on it and you cook it a little bit longer so it is crunchy, that's the way I would It's tasty. Now let's try the meat one. Let's see how greasy it is, looks how the paper is. This is very, very greasy. Our bro was very noble, he put quite a lot of meat. Let's see how it goes. I feel this a lot more substantial, like I'm really eating, not just filling up my stomach with dough and cheese. I feel like an excellent combination would be this one of meat and cheese. That would be a brutal combination. I tell you, you can make burak of all flavors, there's even a pizza flavour that is very popular, they put pepperoni, hamand cheese. This one is like ground beef seasoned with pepper. It's very good and very popular. Just now another person arrived. When we started recording there were three other girls here, another guy. This place Olympia is always packed, extremely popular a good adaptation of Turkish cuisine turned Slovenian. Tasy, Turkish, greasy, certainly fatty. [Music] This is a lot of fun. We are in the house of this cuisine crack called Reza. And she's teaching me how to do Struklji. From what I understand is a dessert, tasty, creamy, doughy. And we I almost broke it. I got an indication and it was don't break it. Basically this is to make the dough super thin because it's got to be like crunchy. This one we're doing can be either sweet or salty. It can be accompanied with meat or whatever they ask it with. We're going to do the sweet version. This is getting serious, now we have to cut the edge to make a quality struklji, tasty. In our huge struklji we are going to make two medium struklji. [Music] So what we did here, we put cottage cheese, eggs, sugar, very basic. And we have to spread it out so then we roll it, from what I understand, and cook it. [Music] Ok, we already did the taco, like a burrito. And now our we wrapped our joint in plastic wrap, interesting, and we're going to cook it like this. I asked why doesn't the plastic melt and they say that actually for it to cook it has to be at about 90 or 100 degrees Celsius and the temperature to melt plastic is above 180 degrees Celsius so it doesn't melt, you can cook like this. We already have our joint wrapped. And let's go, without destroying our joint. [Music] The struklji is cut into little pieces. This looks brutal. We put it a plate all the pieces. And she cooked bread crumbs with sugar and melted butter. And she placed on top, it both garnishes as well as makes it more flavorful. And voila! It looks delicious. Time to try our struklji that we prepared with so much effort, with so much dedication. It looks brutal, I mean, it smells brutal and I love that it's a roll. OMG this is going to taste twice as good. Let's try it. It's a super interesting dessert because it's not really sweet, not entirely. It just has a certain sweet taste. The cheese gives a very good taste and the dough is not really crunchy but it's kind of soft, and melts in your mouth. Also because this one is very creamy it is moist. I really liked it. It's a dessert that doesn't have a cloying sweetness. I can visualize myself eating 6 slices of this, no problem, without any difficulty. Excellent struklji prepared by chef Luisillo and chef Reza. Applause, applause. [Music] One of the things that the locals drink the Kuhano vino, that vino means wine and kuhano is like cooked. So it's mulled wine but it kind of has another recipe, I'm told. If with 3 euros I can warm up, nice, I would pay that any day. Let's try it. Let's see, the kuhano vino. It has like a brown color. It smells like a fruit punch I think it's just a fruit punch with booze. I think that's what it is. Let's see. [Music] Exactly that friends, just what it is, a fruit punch with some booze. It's super yummy, it tastes a lot like cinnamon, I also perceive clove. appley, even grapey. It's a fruit punch. The Christmas punch, or as they call it in your countries. It's delicious, with this I return to another level of heat. I would happily pay those 3 euro any time, cheers! It's hot and also this 10, 12% alcohol it has makes us get warm. [Music] Another of the super traditional desserts of this territory is the potica. Potica is a cake that can be filled with walnuts, fruits is very typical of the seasons of festivities, for example during the Christmas season, in the Easter season. And what characterizes it is that it's basically a roll baked like a cake on a mould that's shaped like a doughnut, with a hole in the middle. It's a circular thing then made rectangular and then again a circle. Very magical, very traditional. There is One of the most celebrated people of Slovenia today is Melania Trump, the former first lady of the U.S. wife of Donald Trump. When the pope met Donald Trump, he asked: hey, your wife is from Slovenia, does she makes you potica at home? Do you like potica? And Donald Trump said: yes of course, I love pizza. And it was like big news here, it was a viral meme like yeah right, I like pizza. Because people from Slovenia love, love the potica. Let's try it, this one they brought me has hazelnuts with a few raisins. It costs 2.50 euros, let's taste it. It smells that it is not so sweet. Indeed it is not so sweet. This one because of how they cook it, tastes a little bit like wine also. Because the dough, before baking it, it was soaking in wine. That's why it has these notes. And also this has a peculiar flavor because it was cooked in a wood-fired oven which is the most traditional way to do it. Hey it's brutal, it's excellent. This with a cup of coffee, a tea, hot chocolate, excellent. I'm a fan of the potica. Without a doubt we have been amazed with such Slovenian delicacies. Did you crave for some you saw? Does any dish looks like something they sell in your country? You can leave it below in the comments. I'll see you in the next food adventure.