It's 2023, you're a hardened member of Mara MS-13 - and the government of El Salvador has You're forced like cattle into the back flesh covered in gang tattoos holds you in place. you and the others to breathe. The guards stripped leaving you violated and humiliated in unsympathetic police barber shaved you bald, If you raise your head in transit, a guard barks at you in Spanish to He wields his nightstick. You get the like more than cracking open the back of your prisoners with your blood. Just to send a not considered human anymore. You're an animal, You bow your head again. A wise choice - There'll But before you disappear back into the A glowing fortress, wreathed in barbed wire makes Alcatraz look like Disneyland. It makes after a few years here, Guantanamo This is the Centro de Confinamiento del Center. We'll call it CECOT. You won't find But you're not being sent here alone. There like some almost endless centipede of human point in a statistic - A tidal wave of 2000 as part of El Salvador's sweeping efforts to At its worst in 2011, El Salvador was world. Peaking at 71 murders per hundred thousand. per hundred thousand. One day even saw 62 had completely overtaken the Central American saw the army roaming the streets just to keep The government needed to take drastic measures. You're about to enter one Opened in 2022, very few people have aside from the flood of prisoners being sent allowed in. Lawyers are not allowed in. Human down almost entirely to the outside world. All gleaned from satellite imagery, footage that the The buses grind to a halt in a large grid outside like you're outside a slaughterhouse, and your bad dude on the outside - a robber, a killer, an most feared gangs. Here, you're a frightened But you don't get your mommy. You get manhandled clapping you in long cuffs that bind your legs. The same thing is happening to hundreds, feel a nightstick press against the back of they can even start applying pressure. The guards bark orders and corral you inside the others are practically naked, and even if guards specifically trained to beat you into nearby guard towers would put a round through Right now, there are estimated to be max out most prisons around the world. Silivri Penitentiaries Campus in of around 22,000 inmates. CECOT is built Even getting to the prison is a challenge. far away from civilization. There are buildings or schools. The prison itself has meaning it has even less need to connect why you spent so many hours roasting with your As you're dragged into the main hall and you find yourself wondering how many people. And the answer to that There are eight prison blocks covering around 57 is an enormous 410 acres total. There are 19 surveying everything. There are four layers each one is nearly ten feet tall and two feet the top. And of course, you can't forget Surveillance cameras are in operation inch of the facility. Nothing happens they have a fully stocked armory with racks gear for their guards. Even the US army And you're just a common thug buddy. So, what have you got to When you first arrive, prisoner or not, you're if you're not an inmate, the guards at you from head to toe to look for contraband. and if you don't, they have the right to strip Salvador have a culture of tattooing their If you've got gang ties, you're not getting Once you've been scanned, and noted in the prison inventory, it's time of you just feels relieved that you'll felt like the longest day of your life - But The guards organize you into groups by cell your back bowed over. If you lag behind, or the ankle, or feel the electric They run you like the bulls of Pamplona a swift kick to the ass sends you tumbling in, once all of the others assigned to too. This is when you start to notice a number For starters, the lights are always on. They dim them, they are on 24/7 at full blast. Bright There are 80 beds to a cell. We say beds, they they're harsh bunk bed frames, stacked four In the corners of the cells, right by the bars, but the flow of water in these the cell. So that's 80 prisoners in a cell It seems that El Salvador is actually We hope you don't mind having plenty of roommates. When a BBC reporter asked the director of the the man smiled and said "Where you Can you imagine a worse night's with over 100 other people, all the most lying on a metal sheet, with two shared toilets estimated that prisoners in CECOT have just That number falls far below the 4 square There are solitary confinement cells too, but they've got their trade-offs you have a slab of concrete to lie on. You get cells are always bathed in artificial light, you artificial or natural, meaning you just have to And at CECOT, one thing is for sure: Before we tell you about the horrors that we've got an important question to such a massive prison? Who are the men We mentioned earlier a particular day in This was the 26th of March 2022. It was the the final straw for the Salvadoran people. approach to combating gang warfare. tough stance on gangs back in 2019, it was time His plan was a sweeping raft of changes preventing the police from arresting gang it was a national state of emergency. The changes affected almost every stage had access to legal counsel and longer without charge. Options like and police could now monitor civilian Sentences were also massively increased. get 6-9 years in prison. That shot up to 40-45. Lower gang members saw their potential sentences were caught sharing gang-related information One of the ways that gangs all around the has been by using children and teenagers for easily manipulated. What's more, they sooner so they're an expendable workforce Not anymore. El Salvador lowered the age of right, actual 12-year-olds could get locked Soldiers and heavily armed police swarmed the somebody was gang-affiliated. They would security checkpoints on almost every major would not only need to provide a photo ID valid reason for travel. Their cars would be manning the checkpoints even suspected they would ask the person to strip them and This policy was massively supported up 'strongly support' the crackdown. A staggering country that is neutral or anti-crackdown. The but here we are well over two years later consistently every month parties across the So far, over 79,000 people have been arrested 6.5 million people, that's over 1% of two years. It's a monumental shift and one The Salvadoran prison system was not nowhere close. Prisons all around the country of funding came up Nayib Bukele drew a hard line funding away from schools, hospitals, or good their meals went down from three to two per But a longer-term solution was needed, CECOT. A brand new 40,000-capacity prison hole in the ground where they could throw You know, the same hole in the ground Let's head back there and see how You don't know what time you wake up. The in the first place. The constant talking, kept you from drifting off for more than one of the tougher guys shoved you out of the concrete floor. It's down here you rather than risk getting shivved for You're desperate to go to the bathroom, but your cell has been blocked for two over the weekend. They'll probably call in a A guy shoves you in the back and you crack early lunch today. Plastic trays loaded with sickly boiled eggs on the side, You join near the back of the line and They never give out cutlery, the forks so you have no choice but to eat with your hands of the guys in the cells have pretty poor hand so stomach viruses are common - Which has, in You've avoided getting sick so far Before you've even had a everyone is up and moving again. It's Every day, you get to spend half an hour as long as the handcuffs aren't the guard takes a dislike to you and you feel it chafe the skin of your You and your 100 cell mates shuffle meekly out guys try to do push-ups, some half run around and most just sit against the It's over before you know it. Bundled back inside by guards, the it's even 11 AM. Not that you know that. the next and the next. And most of them now. Sitting around on either a hard Every five days, you get your head shaved. The the boredom slowly turning your brain as The fights are the only interesting part the prisoners settle their own differences, prisoners just to stop one criminal from getting they'll flood the cell with tear gas out the corpse. Everything else was You think about your family. You never got to so quickly. One minute you were sitting on were kicking down your door and hauling you Does your daughter understand that her dad her? Will your younger brother see sense the next cell block over from you right While CECOT is immensely popular in El Salvador top of gang violence, you cannot ignore the not one person who has been sent to CECOT has been possibility that they will live out the rest of a hypothetical release date to hope for. Human the death penalty on a mass scale, minus the With so many thousands of prisoners being counsel, there inevitably will be a significant happens even in the best justice systems in the been eroded to the point of almost non-existence, The lack of access to the prison is also and NGOs are all either denied access or circumstances where the guards do their The prisoners themselves have no are not allowed to make phone calls across the globe. They live totally There is a reason for this. In prisons can end up being pretty ineffective. the shots from behind bars thanks to burner new inmates, or corrupt guards. The black market weapons, and other contraband are exchanged gangs can continue to operate in Not in CECOT. As extreme as the out communication among gang leaders. Lock leaving a power vacuum in their wake. Inside they can't disrupt and control things in the Some of that comes down to the way guards El Salvador had made mistakes in how they run by gangs saw many inmates living in as they'd enjoy a free flow of while the guards were working long shifts But now, Bukele has made sure to treat recreational facilities for its staff. working conditions. There are 1,000 guards, 600 site. That works out at 40 inmates per guard, those inmates are packed into just one cell, you They monitor everything, they control Now check out "50 Things Nobody Tells You