&lt;Dave&gt; Hi, I'm Dave Borton Welcome to... Roaster School! I'm Dave Borton, Mill City Cafe Imports. &lt;Dave&gt; Joe, what's your position over there? &lt;Joe&gt; I am one of the senior sales education and you may see me at Roaster Executive Council of the Roaster's Guild. &lt;Dave&gt; Very good. Like we said: welcome to Roaster School. We took a look at your feedback, we took Joe and I discussed it, and we're moving to a new project, Roaster School, where Joe is going to help us take a deeper dive on the science, the principles, and the coffee roaster. Joe is going to be telling us items that manufacturer and the roaster that you're so whether you're on the North or a application will help us improve our today with turning point. Joe uses &lt;Joe&gt; Turn around sometimes is also used &lt;Dave&gt; Yeah, so they're both applicable but with that that's the low point after you charge on their migration north so without any &lt;Joe&gt; Sounds good! Yes, as they said you know, our old format we spend time roasting a coffee and you had the opportunity to buy into that however we found that a lot of times i distracted by a question or trying to &lt;Joe&gt; Or distracted by Dave. So, I was I was kind So today we're going to focus on only the turn around. So the turning point is that point in you see your temperature if you're so this point right here. I feel like about what exactly is taking place here. nitty-gritty and start with this and we'll have together we're going to move &lt;Dave&gt; Joe, does the supplied every drum &lt;Joe&gt; This will apply not only to every drum roaster but generally every roaster that is out there if you have the ability to If you're collecting your temperature data I guess this is the first step, you want Whether it's an actual graph that you is a system of boxes where you'll have have your temperature change and you each one into each graph line. Can you see how wonderful I draw? &lt;Dave&gt; We have a lot to look forward to. &lt;Joe&gt; So then you can take every 30 seconds or every minute whatever you want to do - and you can collect your data of what and then you can write that on a graph this would be your time. &lt;Dave&gt; Going this way? &lt;Joe&gt; That's right. So time ever marches find a particular place along that graph. what is happening is: your drum is at a most drums, you're somewhere in the range It depends on your probes, it on how hot you want that drum. Okay? So let's just pretend this is 400,deg At some point, when you add in the you're going to see the coffee is then and it's going to pull it down and then but I don't want you to think about it and then it drops in temperature All of this is actually noise - it's not Okay? What is really happening is your is at room temperature, okay? Whatever temperature your coffee was when you put it into the drum. And what's really happening to your coffee's temperature is it is moving upward - ever marching upward from the time that you Okay. Unless you do something and it which we don't want to have happen. So think about it in these terms. Now In life and in coffee. Your relationship between the of your coffee as you put the coffee so how much does that batch weigh? - and the So if I have a drum that has the well what size drum you want to work &lt;Dave&gt; Explain density. &lt;Joe&gt; If I have a density here in just a moment a little bit more in depth. So here is a about eighty percent capacity, which this equals 2.2 046 pounds, so let's say we're going to shoot for doing - let's just say .8 kilos. Okay, and then you can divide that number it in my head. So you're putting in your eight - your okay, and that .8 kilo is starting at room let's just say 75 degrees, all right? If degrees for 20 minutes, 10 minutes - if turn around on that coffee at .8 kilos if all of these things are the same, that single time that you roast that coffee. your airflow is the same, if your gas coffee, if it's the same temperature of coffee, and same weight. If something changes for your coffee, Something is off somewhere. turning their drums on and trying to get because they think that they need to So you get the drum up to 400 degrees, Well that doesn't work, because your drum and held that heat at that temperature. So even though your probe may be showing the drum is still on its way of is only at that site where you have your drums still needs to get hot, okay? Now, this is where it starts to get which coffee you're dropping this amount. What I roasting is use your full charge, which of what the roaster manufacturer says lot of leeway to turn your gas up and full load and you get behind, you don't forward for where you need to go. So I do percent capacity, and then I recommend with same charge until you really understand So then if I take another coffee, and mean by that is, every seed weighs more. kilos, you're actually weighing out less You'll see in the, in the bucket that you're weighing it in, it'll be stunted. material. So what that means is is two things. The This is your drum. Your drum has these coffee about, right? As your drum is rotating, let's say it's your coffee is collecting, and your collects right up here. Okay? But it's also tossing about, tossing coffee in that drum, the mass of that that space, so the dense coffee is going coffee seeds less often. Okay. That also means that my coffee seed quickly on the outside, because it's moisture off of the coffee. So what ends up happening also along that probe is in that drum it's getting hit by less coffee, so it's having a smaller effect on this number, okay? So if it's having a smaller effect, that that that temperature is corresponding So it it may show you that you are turning around more quickly depending on the density of the coffee mass of .8 kilos could be any beans, it could be 1.5 million beans. It So you want to think about on how these changing your coffee, it is very important for you to to be for that particular coffee. And I hundred and seventy-five degrees particular coffee, because every coffee turn around temperature. So let's get caught up in the weeds of all of it's very important that you keep track that you pay attention to your start bean's temperature, your coffee's temperature, that you try to consistent batch size for whatever attention to where that coffee naturally So instead of messing with your coffee to do sixty percent batch today, and I charge down to 395 and then try to find whenever I had a point, you know, or an eighty percent batch at that's all out the window. Even though at the same temperature, by pulling all that doesn't necessarily mean that a the road you're going to be on the same Okay, so keep these things as consistent as each coffee is turning around, okay? If your coffee is turning around more little bit less dense. It's going to take on the heat more the roast a lot more quickly. If your later, then your coffee is probably a the heat as quickly, and that's okay. A lower density coffee needs a little because of the structure of the coffee coffee is in the drum, okay? So your more dense coffee is going going to drop down further away. This distance is not going to be very And why does it matter? Well, if first crack which it does, then if this is five you that amount of time to get to first It's going to be a longer roast that you're not rushing it as you're getting it out of at this, and you've heard this analogy is this is kind of like a launching pad going to move forward. And so if your pad on too hard, then it's not going to If your coffee is coming down and it's going to just blast off, and Okay, any questions? &lt;Dave&gt; Just a quick summary We can't emphasize enough please be consistent until you learn use that same charge size. Joe's talked sweet spot about 75 to 80 percent. For charge size should be one kilo. It's not down in the eighty percent It is a full kilo or full 500 grams. That's one thing. Joe, would you define and one has high density, what does the density of a coffee mean? think about it as being if you have two exact same size, that is your mass. If one that's your density. It's a lot more dense. There's a lot less &lt;Dave&gt; And in the coffee cell what creates more dense based on all of the compounds So it's not water, so - I know i used the coffee, you could have a coffee that is the exact same seed size, but one may more densely compact carbohydrates, you know, all of the other sugars, all the seed that you're going to turn into insignificant as it pertains to the of static. so the actual compounds that you're what build up the density of the coffee. &lt;Dave&gt; said, denser beans, where that cell around at a lower point than coffees &lt;Joe&gt; That's right. &lt;Dave&gt; Okay. &lt;Joe&gt; if you think about 75 degrees or your room temperature, then that dense coffee to move forward in it that's because it's more diffuse in that need more energy in order to get to the If you think about this in terms of and another car that doesn't weigh a lot, the exact same engine and the same amount of will take will move much more slowly So again you're starting here so if you have a very high density coffee, it's going to take a lot more energy to makes me think from like a physics standpoint, then that means I should be hitting my my throttle Instead of being at four inches of gas i moving. Well if you do that, you're going to to burn the outside without that heat That's why I say no matter the density, learning your machine and learning that try to start with a consistent temperature here, and a consistent weight. you get to a place where instead of So like a particular size on could be the case, but the geekier you more you start going down rabbit holes, the more likely you are going to miss going to get into the weeds, and if you simple as possible and then see how you respond to that information in a clear level-headed way, you're going &lt;Dave&gt; Joe, you've got a data here, data point here and turning point. How do Okay, it's a piece of information. Now that what do I do with it? &lt;Joe&gt; So all of the data one piece of data that is the most Okay, and that is... does it taste good? Does it make you aesthetically pleasing roast? So all of do you know whether or not all of this by sharing it with friends, by sharing it professional setting. Taste, taste, taste, okay? So then when you're going through the next segment of our covering more and more of this chart, and unfortunately it's a little bit more chart and you can find exactly the point changed this, if I've changed this, if I've changed gas if, I've made all of these exactly I need to make a change to fix I don't. So you have to start with simplistic, and even though this looks starting in this way, this is you up for success. It's just like you're building a building a house, the basements of all of these different simplistic because they're tried and we can build on top of that can their foundation, which is the beginning that is in place, then we can move more creative with the roast a little &lt;Dave&gt; Very good. Nick, questions that have come &lt;Nick&gt; Oh, absolutely. Yeah, let's do this. Brian had a he's saying if you're targeting a specific targeting a specific time phase, is the going to result in later milestones okay, or is that something to avoid? I &lt;Joe&gt; Okay, so I want to tell you that everything Okay?If it helps your coffee tastes good, Starting with a clear foundation will consistently. If you have a coffee that's within this system you know that your roaster is heated and temperature in the room is stable, you know that you're roasting the same it's dropping well outside of a reasonable limit, then responding within that system, okay? If you go and make an overadjust and try to get it inside of spec, then coffee is telling you that it's There's something different about it And so then by nature of that, that But if you respond to that by saying &quot;but get it to file and rank,&quot; then you are if it starts falling out of rank, then different. If that coffee doesn't crack opposed to eight and a half minutes, it's okay. Get to the end of that roast by following that coffee's lead, by where your turn around temperature was, adjustments to follow that to where if turn around for yellow but turn around minute and a half, then go ahead and make yellow or my coffee fully dried at four then I'm going to push my first crack And then get to where you can taste taste it every other time. Make sure that all of those things, all then you can go back and you can say, &quot;You happy with that roast, and it's fine. I had &lt;Dave&gt; Joe, as I listen to you, you sound more you roast. &lt;Joe&gt; Yes. &lt;Dave&gt; So it's about staying fluid, open to what at the coffee with a set of rules that &lt;Joe&gt; That's right. In starting with a very allow you to be freer later on for set, because you'll know that it's the coffee that's making the change, whereas if you don't start with you don't know if it's the roaster, the that's messing with the system up. So as possible and get to the coffee you where it kind of needs to go. &lt;Dave&gt; Very good. Nick, any other questions there? &lt;Nick&gt; Yes, sir. Let me scroll. Here at Mill City, cutting gas at the first minute, first minute and a half until you hit turning point. Harrison Boyd is wondering, is that part of And to that same point, just to jump on to another question, how do you react to gas and airflow throughout this turning point? &lt;Dave&gt; I can take it from Mill City. I use a I do not use turning point. Turning minute and ten with full capacity. And away mentally and say, &quot;Ooh, this is denser for that first minute in that I want because I'm trying to drive two things: temperature as the outside, and I want to just taking in the heat, so I use a minute and again we're talking about roaster's So turning point doesn't govern me &lt;Joe&gt; And Iwould agree with Dave, actually on this. &lt;Joe&gt; When I am profiling a coffee or I'm time, I will react to how the coffee is on the gas, and that's what you've seen I've roasted here has been the first that machine with that coffee. &lt;Dave&gt; Right. &lt;Joe&gt; And many times on the first roast that I've done on that machine period. But if I'm in a situation where I have already drawn up I'll backtrack that up and get to the same point every time. But I've made I make an adjustment as to how high I times that I roasted, seeing where that is naturally occurring. &lt;Dave&gt; Absolutely. And coming out of that turn. &lt;Joe&gt; Yep. And if I have a sharp turn reacting to the heat in a very fast way, me that I need less gas whenever I charge my roast. However, if I tells me generally that I need a little Another question? &lt;Nick&gt; Any changes for electric &lt;Joe&gt; Electric, light, so you can get a halogen bulb that these are all methods of heating coffee. So, whether it's electric or whether it's so the basic principles of this should source that you have. The electric metal is heating the coffee. The electric is heating the coffee. So it's just all a matter of that seeing how the coffee reacts within that you have gas, or if you're roasting on an it's about setting base parameters to of your equipment, and the temperature and then how much gas or how many amps you're going to apply to that coffee after that. &lt;Dave&gt; Very good. Nick, anything else? &lt;Nick&gt; I think we touched on this - Jeff is wondering how much does that affect your initial particularly, humidity will shift on us. It a sudden it's dry. What kind of change do you see in the same versus a Wednesday. &lt;Joe&gt; So this is a very There is the humidity of the coffee exact question. I think that's what the question, but i like both of them. &lt;Joe&gt; Okay. And then there's the humidity of the In my opinion, humidity is not what is making any kind opinion, it is the density of the coffee of the air is kind of affected by humidity. The density of the coffee is also kind However, we can measure both through the barometric pressure within our So, if you're roasting on a small roaster barometric pressure is going to be kind something that we really shouldn't be large roaster, the pressure pushing down change to how that roaster will roast. And affect the way that you play with airflow, okay? But I don't think that that applies If you are seeing changes in the coffee due to the moisture in the coffee or the I would recommend looking at some other you're not making a corollary judgment I think that baristas do this all the dries out all of a sudden, and they say room changed, so it put my grind off.&quot; That that's not a causation. We know now that &lt;Dave&gt; So when you were a barista, you never said thing about humidity and coffee and the but now I know better. &lt;Dave&gt; Super! your barometric pressure, check humidity, temperature of the drum, make sure that also off. And I'll venture to bet else that you can draw conclusions from. &lt;Dave&gt; out there? &lt;Nick&gt; No, we're just all talking now about how you guys are amazing. &lt;Dave? Well, that's good. That's good. Good wrap-up time. We've billed these as 25 to &lt;Nick&gt; 34:00. &lt;Dave&gt; Okay, what I'd like to do then is see if I can wrap it up - &lt;Joe? Do it. &lt;Dave&gt; - with some... &lt;Joe&gt; Are you going to actually rap? &lt;Dave&gt; I'd like to... let's see if we can emphasized. Stay consistent on your charge roaster. Do the same charge size time 75 to 80 percent is the sweet spot. do your full charge size. &lt;Joe&gt; And make sure Like we don't wanna, if you're on a the same charge size every time,&quot; and that doesn't count to us. Okay? You're involved there are throwing you way off. &lt;Dave&gt; No, I will permit that interruption a thousand times! The emails and the What Joe discussed today, he was talking Everything we talked about, if you've got a five by eight card with and plotting at that way, everything that's dependent on the bean, on your and the ambient temperature in your Try to keep these consistent until the turning point, the denser the bean, the tighter that cell is within that bean. If you get a really sharp spike coming at a turning point, you may have too much gas. Too heavy of a sharp turning points. What else did you want to emphasize that &lt;Joe&gt; The most important thing is, is it making you Are you enjoying the coffee? That is the Enjoying the process is great. It's geeky, But at the end of the day, taste and you've done your homework to where then you should be able to find that that means that there are probably a lot so tune in to future events from us, and &lt;Dave&gt; Nick? &lt;Nick&gt; I got two things for you, Dave. &lt;Dave&gt; Yes? &lt;Nick&gt; We need to see your tattoo. And I need you to drop this. Right in there. Made you a little paddock thing. Hold it up for the camera. Show them your tattoo. Look at that - it's a beautiful bear with the twin cities skyline. His wife hates it, Hold up the mic for the camera. Three, two... &lt;Dave&gt; It's a wrap. &lt;Nick&gt; Peace! &lt;Joe&gt; Dropping the mic!