Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and today we are taking a look at a Walther P99, specifically here a first generation, first year of production P99. This is a pistol that I think is a lot more interesting than people realise and I think it's Its impact, its importance, and is more interesting than So the backstory here, we are going At the end of World War Two, of course The Walther Company survives by to do collaborative manufacture. Of course, some of Walther's facilities They go on actually essentially that they [would be] They make copies of the PPK, and In West Germany Walther is it would survive for several decades on Now by 1981 when the P38 finally it was being called the P4, which ... The P4 is just a P38 [advert] In the 1970s they realised clearly they are to garner interest if they actually and sell pistols to military and police, who So they develop the P5, now this is part It's developed in the mid-70s, '76/'77, and it's actually produced It is in production for about 20 years, it's It's designated the P5 because it where it meets all the And this is an interesting trial the German federal government just met the requirements and then approved And then individual agencies could So Walther's P5 was approved, SIG-Saur's P6 was approved and And that's where you get Anyway, the problem with the P5 for Walther It was better than a P38 it's hammer fired, it's very expensive for it's not a simple Browning action gun. But it's not a long-term successful strategy So they start poking around for That's in production for just a couple of years, It's a little less expensive, it's a standard Browning action Less than 10,000 guns is certainly not to the extent that it is The next thing they try out is the PP90, which is essentially a locked breech That thing is a complete flop, it never goes into production. Without any better products, any real opportunities in the market, They are not bringing in And so the company And there's a lot of interest especially people outside of Germany, Umarex is an air gun whose owner or president is very proud to be And recognises the long history that and thinks it would be a huge shame gets bought out by a foreign buyer. So he and Umarex step up I think there's a lot of people maybe would buy a real gun company. And the answer was Umarex existed as an air gun And the owner of the company and jumped at the opportunity to purchase a So once Umarex purchases Walther, that Walther had been before - they But what Umarex does, or what is step up the R&amp;D and develop a truly modern This is now a striker fired pistol, It's the first polymer frame that Walther did. And it has a number of elements So let's dig in here and take Alright, one P99. Let's take a look I'm just going to work Interarms out of Alexandria was the We have a very early Typical &quot;read safety manual&quot;, we are getting Walther banner on the grips, and kind of Very small little dots on the grip. Over on the other side we have a The style of this stuff would over the course of production without really They just made a bunch of On a polymer framed pistol like this, ... On the P99 they put it in the back of This is actually a ... cocked indicator So when I rack the gun that And then this gets us straight into ... the most which is that while it is striker fired, it is Because once it's cocked we have for a striker fired gun. And then a really short, So that's reset, it's cocked again now. And I only have to let the trigger out It makes for very easy follow-up shots. Now if I have been shooting and I want to put it back in a holster and I don't I have a de-cocking button Not a lever as you'd typically Push that in, it releases the striker But just drops the striker forward so that and it has a really long trigger, like that, But that de-cocker is kind of certainly for the ... mid to late 1990s. The magazine release is an You push it down to eject the magazine. This one is a 1997 production gun, which means it was ... manufactured So marked P99 there, in 9 Parabellum. This holds 10 rounds and it's because magazines that held more were not Like many other pistols, if the striker is cocked (and you can see So for most guns that means the ... next step in And that's something that a weren't a huge fan of the idea of having to It's not inherently unsafe, you just like actually check But it's becoming pretty common today to Walther allowed that back with the P99 That drops the striker down, and pull this disassembly tab down, and We have a full polymer frame here Just to put this in context, thanks the P99 had a manufacturing of like 25% as much as So this was a massive manufacturing And everybody else was doing the same they were experiencing the which brought the cost Now you'll recognise These are interchangeable the size of the grip different That's a pretty typical thing today, the So it's not quite as simple of a But we have a roll pin down here, And they give me this And then I can lift out the grip insert There's the really huge one, For what it's worth, like I normally think I have pretty average size is definitely the most comfortable on Anyway, pick the one you want, put it in, The trigger mechanism was and Walther offered a So this one has the standard double-action They also offered They had a pre-tensioned version, but the typical striker-fired feel They had an anti-stress version. is that here on the originals, if you put much sideways pressure And I think they were concerned that This one's not really susceptible to it, I don't know where this pistol But there we go, in theory if you the trigger safety back here We do by the way, have a trigger safety here. And if it doesn't pivot it won't actually fire, because this leg of the trigger So that's a drop safety. If you are pulling and you can't really help but to make that little pivot, But if you drop the gun, inertia is going to At any rate, you could accidentally ... engage that And the anti-stress changed the trigger Going up to the slide assembly, We've got a self-contained It's a Browning tilting-barrel style of pistol. So that's all exactly Alright, inside here we (for all practical purposes on So if this is not pushed upwards into If I push that in ... I can then And that safety is deactivated by So when the slide is all the way forward I can then take out the rear The striker spring is also self-contained. (The de-cocker button is not by the way.) But the striker spring is self-contained. And what's going to happen is ... when you decide to de-cock the pistol, when you that is going to hit the top of the striker here. This part is being held by the sear. And if it is pushed back it's going to drop down and disconnect below So a pretty basic system. And there you go, one Now there would be a second at the same time that The ... three major elements that are first off, the proprietary rail up here Secondly, there's sort of a hump and the idea there is to prevent the shooter's between the bottom of the trigger and the trigger But they changed their mind and got rid of And then on the second generation the So the magazine release always was They never did bother to change the because ... that's just not that important. But they did add an ambidextrous The P99 is introduced in 1996, goes into production in either I've had a hard time finding any guns dated '96, At any rate, even before it's being used in the because Wulf-Heinz Pflaumer recognised the importance of essentially And he hand delivered a ... to Pierce Brosnan on the set And essentially convinced him to make sure There's a line in it where &quot;Ah, the new Walther, I've been Which is obviously marketing where their financial success really So what better way to get it a good running At any rate, the gun goes into production in '97, and it would stay in production Walther kept trying to retire it and And then the like &quot;We promise And then the double-secret It is now out of production, There were a whole bunch There were a number of In 2008 it was licensed to ... the factory There was a collaborative model made by Smith &amp; Wesson called the SW99 where Smith &amp; Wesson actually made the The most interesting part about those which Walther never did for the P99. The P99 was offered in 9x19 Parabellum, Of course .40 Smith &amp; Wesson during the height of There would of course also be a wide The P99 Compact was introduced in 2004. There was another licensed produced version That was called the MR9 Eagle, Magnum Research does has to be You could get these in three different Black like this one, green, There's really a surprising amount and like I said at the beginning, it's a gun So hopefully you guys at a gun that hopefully you didn't know Thanks for watching.