When we moved to this property, and that we'd be met if it's not the water issues we're dealing Or simply getting stuck in the mud not a mechanic." I'd say he's Here he is, tackling and picking up skills This week. He starts off and if you've got last week's video, Hoping it might either serve as a parts We then face three big moments. First, the tricky task of unloading Then Philip getting the engine to start. And finally, a literal breakthrough making major progress on the water issues With each week and every new skill, projects that once It's a reminder that taking on this Turning each challenge into a skill pays off. The exhaust on the dumper broke. So Claude had someone weld it, So I just need to do some, drilling And that's about it. Straighten this out a little bit. It's going to be a lot better. It's here that it broke. So they put So it's going to be perfect. I looked at a new replacement, for just this little piece. A little bit too much for me. Ah, chef! Bonjour. We're arriving together. So, did you set it up? No. Yeah yeah it's done. Did you tighten it a lot? I tightened it a lot, yes, yes. Claude is doing the inspection. He iss the big boss. Up. Okay. The wheels in front are quite small. It'll be fine. Oh. I can't get it out of gear. Come here. Okay. Just, like this. Ok, come on, move forward, slowly! Back up a little, but faster than that. Again. Go ahead. Are the front wheels okay? Go ahead, don't worry about it. Go ahead. We got this tractor. It's the same one as the one we found. It's in very good shape, actually. So I am not sure if we will use this one as a parts donor for that one. We're going to try I'm We're going to try to get it running. The engine is turning over. We tested it with the batteries. So we're going to take the old oils and everything, renew them If we get it running then it would be actually very silly and put it in the other one. So, But I couldn't lift on it. They're quite new front tires. Back tires are almost new, and, it only has 500 hours on it, not much. And you can tell it has been okay. It looks a bit rusty because But you can tell, and everything have been renewed It has the card. GRI. It means I can, register it so I can ensure it If I want, So, yeah, I'm We're going to try to get it going. If this one goes very quickly, Then this one is going up No already. And the other one I'm going to open up So we're going to open up the engine But first off, let's, clean this thing. Is it going to work? Let's try it out. Yes, it's perfect. I think it's good that it was full. Because it's not rusted inside. 20 liters. Is it dirty? Hmm, there is still some left inside. Ok, done. It's not clean. There is dirt inside, but that's normal. (Claude: Of course it's normal), it's not a young machine. So where done with this? Yes, it's empty. So we'll put diesel in it... And we Okay, so we emptied the old diesel out. It was full. Still full of diesel. So that's a good sign. It has new fuel lines. Let's see if we can get it to fire up. There's still oil on it. Doesn't look too bad. So we're just going to use that oil to fire it up. All the diesel? Yes! It's possible that it's the battery. No. The battery is gone. This, you think this doesn't work either? We'll see. okay. That's better, isn't it? we. Should I stop? You see, it wants to start, right? If you turn it over. So. I. All right. Good morning, guys. But, oh, it's still muddy. It has been dry for three days now. I'm going to start digging or I'm going to try I'm gonna try to get a few scoops out of there and fill that little corner up there Doesn't need to be that close to the border, At least this is working out. I don't know how much soil I will get from there. Move over there. But, at least I can drive up, and I will be able to do a few loads. Almost at the corner. It's just this tree or what's left of it, then it starts going down so almost there. Tadaaa un chateau. Bye bye chateau. Ah yeaaah! Tadaaa. Chateau. Here the castle is broken. This. Yeah. Okay. One more? Yeah. Three two one... Ta daaaa. Yay! More. More. June (Odin says it as Daduu). Cookie. Ouais. Odin. Cookie. Oh! Cookie. Merci. Mama cookie. Papa? Yeah? I'm so close to, breaking through. The corners is maybe from here... a meter and a half. Something like this. I'm going to have a little look behind this panel. I don't know what I'll find, but, I've been losing a little bit. It's a tiny bit. That's not much of a hydraulic oil. And the only thing that's not working properly is the front shovel, which was from the beginning. When I bought it, there was nothing wrong with the machine, but, found out there's actually something wrong If it is. The hydraulic ram or it is something else. I can't see a leak at the hydraulic ram. So then have a look under here. It's a lot of. It's a lot of piping. Oh. What has been living in here? Let's grab a flashlight and see if we can spot anything but this side looks pretty bone dry. It is dirty. So I think once I'm done, with this excavation at the back of the barns, I might, give it a proper clean. There is one hydraulic line right in the middle of it, which is leaking a little bit. I can see, it's, wet, and I can see, drip underneath it. From in there, I can see the other side of this, But that looks dry. But it is good to see that the machine is mostly dry, hydraulic line. So actually, not bad.