Building a dam imparts a stupendous change there are winners and losers. The winners are usually us, people, through irrigation for farming, and a stable water But, we've known for a long time, probably place, that many of the losers are fish (especially habitat. Even in 1890, the state of Washington in the of fish when building dams. And, not just consideration, but specific a dam if they were quote-unquote "wont to I recently took a tour of McNary Dam on the maintained by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, laboratory at the Pacific Northwest National our own needs with those of the aquatic wildlife You should check out that video after this But one of the biggest pieces to that puzzle salmon and other migratory fish to swim up And it got me wondering: how do engineers So this video is a follow-up, a chance to between engineering and wildlife. I'm Grady, and this is Practical Engineering. Today we're talking about fishways. You've probably seen a fish ladder before, side of McNary Dam is just one of many designs. The way it works is simple in practice: adult The goal is that they don't even realize the They simply continue upstream through the side. Water flows in one direction--fish flow in But, designing a fishway isn't simple at all. In a way, it's like engineering life support design criteria are biological. How fast can fish swim, and for how long? How are they motivated? How high can they jump? What temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH, and And how do all these factors vary across seasons These are difficult questions to answer, and Northwest National Laboratory was all about preferences of migratory fish. I saw the wide variety of tracking systems in the wild and lots of different ways they From research like that and decades of trial the real world, engineers and biologists have best. All fish are different, which means every the particular species that they handle. At McNary, that mainly means salmonids, a adult lives in the ocean but return to shallow Fortunately, NOAA Fisheries has a detailed a lot of this knowledge down. And I've built a scale model of a few fish they work. Salmon encounter all kinds of obstacles in the human-made ones. They're quite capable of moving upstream in small waterfalls and even the presence of Their species literally depends on it. So, the goal of a salmon fish ladder is to into thinking they're simply making their steep and concrete one, without delay, stress, Part of that trick is in the flow rate. In fact, the flow of water through a fishway design. And like every engineering decision, it's Every drop of water that flows through a fish the dam, so it can't be used for hydropower But the flow of water is obviously important If the flow velocity is too high, the fish And if it's too low, there might not be But, fish not only need specific flow to swim If flows through a ladder are too low, fish way is upstream. And that's especially true at the entrance. A dam stretches the entire width of a channel, doesn't, so there has to be some way to That's called attraction flow. Salmon use the sound and turbulence of flowing a big part of fish ladder design is simply In fact, the flow of water through the ladder so many fish ladders have auxiliary water At McNary, two enormous pumps draw water from channel just so it can fall back down, creating for salmon to find their way in. In addition, a huge valve and conduit system from the forebay and releases it at an intermediate Both of these systems provide some redundancy 24/7) and operators some control over the fishway, ensuring it can always mimic ideal But once they're in, another challenge begins. Dams are tall. At least, a lot of them are. And most fish can't climb actual ladders. They can't walk upstairs, and although there complicated and usually less efficient than natural channel. So, the overall hydraulic design of most fishways "chunks" that fish can navigate at their They need to go kind of horizontal, but still A steeper channel is shorter, but it can make A shallower channel has slower flow, but it's complexity of getting up to the top. So, for salmon, at least, the engineers and in between (usually a 10-15% slope) that breaks with some kind of baffle. The simplest and oldest fishways are called The idea here is that fish can use a burst over the weir and then rest in the pool above. When they're ready, they swim up the next Nothing like a grown man playing with fish Lots of fish can handle this no problem, but swimming up a high velocity jet of water over Pool and weir designs are generally considered they can limit the species and fitness of Many of the newer fishways use more sophisticated The fish ladder at McNary modifies the concept parts with a non-overflow section in the center baffle, called orifices. This design provides a wider variety of flow find their way to the top. McNary even sees a good number of Lamprey, behavior to salmon, pass through the ladder Most of the salmon prefer to use the submerged My model isn't quite scaled to my toy fish, movie magic. This particular configuration is sometimes first implemented at Ice Harbor Dam on the Both the pool-and-weir and Ice Harbor designs sensitive to the water level above the dam. Small changes in the forebay can significantly ladder just due to the hydraulics of weirs So the designs only work when the reservoir margin. McNary has several large crest gates that not always feasible. One type of fish ladder solves it in an interesting Vertical slot fishways are exactly what they Instead of a weir or orifice, they use a slot That makes it possible for fish to move upstream When I remove some of the stoplogs in my model continue working in essentially the same manner. Plus, the velocity is fairly consistent from fish ample opportunity to pass through each The protrusion on the upstream face creates it. The big question with these designs and all work? Again, a difficult question to answer, especially specific group of species in mind. The fish ladders along the Columbia and Snake One study found that 97% of Chinook, Sockeye, made it up the ladder and into the forebay. But, millions of dollars of engineering, research, because of the huge cultural and economic The results vary wildly for other species The primary way we know this is through tagging and measuring how many make it to the upstream That type of study comes with all kinds of to compare those numbers to how many fish in the first place. The Pacific Northwest National Lab showed can be implanted into fish and the fascinating out that other video if you want to learn One of the simplest ways we use to measure the number and type of fish that pass through Many of the largest of these structures are window into one side of the ladder where someone This is extremely useful data, not just used of overall fish migration year over year, But even this requires a little ingenuity. Most fishways are too wide to see from one so it's necessary to funnel fish toward Sloped grates called pickets allow water to to the counting station. Even these pickets can discourage fish from have to consider whether they're really A trash rack at the upstream exit is usually the ladder and clogging up the baffles. Fish swim through the rack and into the forebay Of course, this is a drop in the bucket of You won't be surprised that adult salmon vast array of challenges in getting fish around Even McNary has juvenile passage facilities another fish ladder on the Washington side Dams worldwide, particularly those installed significantly different systems custom-designed This is important. It's not just for biodiversity's sake, own. We depend on these fish for food, for recreation, So, we're constantly innovating. I mentioned fish elevators and locks. In some cases, we do the migrating for the You may have seen viral videos of the Whooshh possible where traditional ladders aren't We've even tried dropping fish from airplanes. It didn't work very well, by the way. All this to say, it's something we care For better or worse, a big part of engineering engineering of the past when we either didn't projects could cause. Everyone has a different perspective about with all the other life we share the planet I think it's fascinating how those ideas into the real world. I love talking about the intersection of engineering and and environmental issues, but I definitely the issues compared to the pure engineering Wildlife isn't the most polarizing issue how stories are covered by different media at all. Here's an example: A bird flu outbreak that started in 2020 has are detecting it in seals and sea lions. If you only rely on a few sources for your but Ground News has collected all 31 in one 50 percent of the outlets reporting on this right. You can also get a summary of the Factuality of the reporting outlets are owned by media Most of the reporting is pretty similar, but right-leaning source focuses on the environmental sources mostly mention the scientists trying This is all easy to see at a glance with today's aggregates media sources and puts them in For every story, you get a visual breakdown of sources based on ratings from independent One of my favorite features is the blindspot by only one side of the political spectrum. That's how I found the story about seals I think it's important to think about how we advocate for, what we talk about, and who With that much power over us, it just makes make it easier to sift through biases. Ground News makes me feel more confident that algorithms that only try to show me what I And they're offering a huge discount right Subscribe to get a more transparent media practicalengineering or click the link in subscription, which includes unlimited access Thank you for watching, and let me know what