China has become the world's $9,200 equivalent US Chinese automakers are eventually, and they're if there's a tariff or not. 40 years ago or so, the existed. Today, the country half the world. I call it the Great The world has never seen an scale. This is a giant up, and it has its eyes on thanks to China's rise, is market on the planet. There are no Chinese car the moment, although a few Polestar and Lotus are say it's only a matter of The country has been offload overcapacity. Surveys indicate a large especially younger ones, Chinese car despite But not everyone shares the President Biden slapped stiff tariffs, effectively Chinese export EV, which cheap as $11,500 within the Opinions vary, but many say effective in the long run good. So what are the We asked some industry Detroit three, for Toyota, against these Chinese It's going to take something tariff from 25% to 100%. I'm not exaggerating when I challenge that China is including the United You know, in the case of when they came into the to persuade, maybe coerce a Hey, if you want to sell transplant here. But they And they were our allies, more dependent on us than They were more in China's We don't have that kind of China has the capacity to four times as many as the Annual demand within the units. That leaves 15 nearly as many as the US China sent 5 million cars 2023, making it one of the world. You see Chinese cars market except for the And because there's so much market at home is has a automakers themselves are and push their products The United States, a mix of booming economy got them to China welcomed foreign beginning in the 1980s, and changes in the following foreign firms could sell as they partnered with a Chinese firms also made investments. Chinese cars from Ford, for And finally, many companies even private firms receive Ev maker BYD received $3.7 2022. For example, in state we're going to build a industry to get there. We need great companies. But oh, by the way, at the federal level, we'll also So the Western automakers the world do we compete? But Chinese companies have When they came to the ago, their cars were not You could see the quality as you sat in them, as you Now those cars are much They are very competitive. Once they hit the ground all the configuration of just the driver's cockpit. Uh, that's what I think. Obsoletes the traditionally Bill Russo, a former Chinese have been extremely business models based services. Many recent technology, electronics and When the iPhone came, the quickly. That's what's the car business, American to Chinese cars. Nearly half of respondents are familiar with Chinese under the age of 40 said vehicle from a Chinese Consideration then declined group. Grappling with this Tariffs have become a especially with former 2018. Auto executives at CEO Elon Musk decried what between US and Chinese Lately, it is the Biden focused on tariffs first Ev's tariffs on them will 2024, the administration China's extensive subsidies have led to substantial Chinese EV exports grew 70% They're also raising materials used in car batteries, graphite, semiconductors. China controls more than 80% EV battery supply chain, That leaves US supply national security and clean Some politicians are restrictions. The mixed. Labor leaders are in reasons. So is the Alliance the auto industry's major Tesla CEO Elon Musk even he had said earlier in barriers, most Western demolished by Chinese They can sell EVs cheaper burning cars and, according competition in software and But Rousseau is skeptical The Trump era trade war may Beijing, but it landed wrote. Two things happened. First, the trade war drove parts American automakers elsewhere. Gm and Ford both tariffs in 2018 saddled additional one dollars aluminum costs. Secondly, it likely globalization of Chinese circumvent trade rules by their own borders. They're building factories They're building factories Middle East, Europe, Europe, Southeast Asia. There's never been a bigger, decarbonize its supply If elected, Donald Trump on any car made in Mexico Policy analysts say doing of the very agreement Trump It might also cause further which in 2023 became the partner. In any event, argue that these measures American firms need to face companies have extremely products, and American If you can make affordable with and delight the users of universal value Americans buy Chinese stuff have been enjoying the affordability forever. If you shut that off, all it more expensive. There are alternatives. Take a page from what China just starting out and it into our market? The United But by the way, in order to manufacture here, you have And when you manufacture joint venture with an own half of the business. Oh, okay. And by the way, we'd like too, so that we get extra We could do the same. script. The problem isn't out. The problem is we ourselves the benefits of able to create. And then. But do it under a policies. And right now, policies, nobody's writing the benefits of product configurations and the Western world. And weaken the it's not going It's going to weaken the allow that to happen. And Chinese branded cars for 100 Chinese owned presence in the United They are concentrated in and there are Chinese auto 30 US states. But you'd never know it cars on American roads, so No. What? That can't possibly be But it is. They're here. They're getting ready for enter and sell their cars