- Going no contact is perhaps one of the most powerful If someone else is losing or if you've just moved one of the most powerful things and to also at the same time stop tuning to somebody meaning you have no contact. You do not reach out. You do not find out how they're doing. You do not creep on their Instagram. These are things that you do in order to go no contact, I'm gonna explain in a minute, but it only really works when you do what I share A lot of people do this the wrong way and because they do it the wrong way they don't actually So, when talking about no contact, I've made videos about this before. Some of my most popular videos talks about what happens when you energetically go no contact. But basically in a nutshell, what happens is when your energy fields are very intertwined, energy fields are very connected. And what happens is when you are even and you are around them a lot, you end up sharing fields And what ends up happening as well is when you're thinking of somebody, even if you're not physically around them, you'll find that you thinking about them, wanting them to come around, wanting their approval, wanting their validation, when you think of them you are literally energetically I know this sounds but just I've seen this happen and other people's lives when I share this And what happens is what you begin to do is you begin to clear the communication, clear the energy fields Now, when you clear the energy and you stop sending that person energy you allow the other person to regroup. If it is meant to come back together you actually give space for it to do so. Now, one of the main and retract their energy energetically is because they want space. They want space. Maybe there's a little bit Maybe they have intimacy blocks. Maybe they want space because there's some type Sometimes that happens, where the way somebody is they're like, &quot;Okay, I'm gonna get this &quot;I'm gonna talk to them a lot. &quot;I'm gonna send them a And the more you do that the more it actually the more you actually And when you retract your energy and you bring your energy back and you stop trying to control everything, everything ends up working out and you allow and you give space and you give space for somebody to realize how much they appreciate you. Or you give them space and then you in your own energy realize that maybe it wasn't maybe it actually wasn't the But in general, the reason letting go and the reason going no is because you stop projecting Now, imagine this, imagine you're saying, &quot;This person is not doing &quot;They're not texting me back. &quot;I feel like they're in resistance. &quot;They don't understand &quot;I don't get it. &quot;What's going on here.&quot; You're feeling resistance. And when you feel resistance and then you think of that person, you're literally sending And when they think of you they're feeling the energy So it's like the resistance They feel that. And then it repels them even more. And they say, &quot;I want more space. &quot;I want more space.&quot; And going no contact is what you do is you stop sending them energy. You stop sending them resistance. You stop even energetically You start focusing more on yourself. You start focusing more on your own, being in your own body, doing your own things in life, being around your own friends, living according to your own integrity, following your own purpose. You are being called to right now, I believe to bring the Pull your energy back, When you do that, you then start to feel I've seen this happen so that are having trouble and they're thinking about them and they're trying to make it work and they're texting them a lot. And then I say, &quot;Yo, &quot;Put the energy within yourself. &quot;Put the energy within your own life. &quot;Live by according to your own values. &quot;Follow your own purpose. &quot;Find new hobbies, even, &quot;put your energy into other &quot;and go no contact.&quot; Meaning do not talk to them. Do not check their Instagram. Stop sending them this energy. You wanna know what happens is they do that. They start enjoying their life more. And then two weeks, a month, a week even, the person and then they try coming back, or they try talking to that person again, or they reach out to see And a lot of times you may realize, &quot;Oh, you know what, &quot;it's time for me to move on, &quot;maybe this wasn't the best dynamic.&quot; Or maybe it was something that isn't serving you anymore. You realize that you started And I think a lot of times when people really have trouble letting and relationships, it's like, the reason they may have is because it's reflecting back the belief that says there's something wrong with me and this person's not choosing me. And that reaffirms the so people choose people that And then once they bring the then maybe that person comes around. But then that person has to decide, &quot;Do I want to continue So in general, when we sometimes when people watch they assume, and I explain But when you go no contact, You're not going no That's the difference When people are doing it When they're like, &quot;Okay, I'm gonna go &quot;three weeks without &quot;And when I go three weeks &quot;I'll really show them and then &quot;and we can be together.&quot; That is called attachment to outcome. Doing it to get something doing it to get some type of response. And the anxious attachment style, which a lot of times this the anxious attachment seeking the avoidant attachments approval because when someone is pulling back or someone's having trouble not always, but a lot of times it can be the anxious attachment. But there's a behavior called protest behavior. Protest behavior is where will kind of pout or withdraw their attention or go inwards. And it's like a mechanism that's used to actually get more attention. Instead of vulnerably how you're feeling and it's like, &quot;I'll let them &quot;They should know how I feel.&quot; And when you talk about going no contact, this could be the strategy of somebody that's anxious attachment style to get somebody to finally come back. &quot;I'll show you. &quot;I'll be talking to other people. &quot;You're not gonna know &quot;You're gonna get super &quot;and then you're gonna want me again.&quot; But it's a form of protest behavior. It's a form of manipulation. And you don't wanna do that. You wanna let go with the recognition that what you're really letting go of and why you're really going no contact is because you're gonna A lot of times we may abandon ourselves and tell ourselves stories that maybe isn't really bought in, we may believe or think that we need to prove to prove that we're actually worthy, to prove that we're enough. But once we realize that this may just be a it changes the way that we And the thing that I would encourage you to really look at here is, are you doing and letting because you're trying to get them back, or you going no contact it's time to stop abandoning yourself? It's time to stop chasing love It's time to start is within yourself and you tap into it. The more you stop abandoning yourself, the more you start the more you start going after your passion, the more you focus on even your family, your friendships, following your passion. Like these are all things that you do that help you to maintain I call it the magnetic frame. When you're in your own magnetic frame, you have magnetic energy. And you may have been as well about this person. Maybe you tell yourself a story that this is the only person for you. There's no one else out there or treat you a certain way, but understand that a lot of times the story is the attachment that we have. And that story is what's and keeping us locked keep us holding on creating attachment. And the answer is always That does not mean that you can still not connect but when you let go of attachment it means attachment to outcome. Because a lot of times people where they're like, &quot;I have and then it depolarizes the relationship. And then they keep sending And they're trying to control the dynamic. And there's one thing in life... If there's one thing in life I promise you, it's you're relationships. You cannot control how You cannot control what And one of the most is bring your energy back energetically so that you're not resistantly sending them energy all the time. Bring your energy back into your body. Begin to feel present again. Because a lot of times too, they're literally and projecting it in a instead of putting the awareness within, enjoying the moment, being around friends. Like what you wanna do is which means you don't reach out to them, you don't check their Instagram. But you go no contact, not because they're gonna come back and it's a manipulative tactic, you go no contact because you realize that it's time to stop It's time to stop trying to It's time to stop trying trying to show and prove to you that you're you actually worthy. You are worthy for simply being you. And when you stop abandoning yourself, you'll realize that people begin to treat you very differently. People begin to respect you more. When I started doing this in my life, so many levels of my People respected the People respected me more because I was being more vulnerable. Sometimes as well, when it comes to not letting maybe is there something that you haven't, have you not had closure? It could be a good idea to with closure before you go no contact of just sharing how you Maybe being vulnerable. Like, &quot;Listen, I wanted this &quot;I see now that you're not &quot;I just want you to know I've &quot;I really wish it would've worked out &quot;but I'm gonna go no contact now.&quot; You could be vulnerable. For a long time in the past, And I've remained in a gray zone in some of my relationships. And what I had to eventually do is I had to not be to be vulnerable. And after I did that, I started to feel so... I was in so much integrity and I felt like I was and I wasn't abandoning myself any longer. And then from there onwards, I was able to really start choosing me. And maybe this is your sign and to understand that you are And that you get in life a reflection of what you believe you deserve. And if you're chasing somebody that doesn't treat you that way or somebody that you feel like you have to prove yourself to, then you're believing that You're believing you have to And the way that it works It reflects back what So one of the most powerful is start to become aware of these beliefs. And as you become aware of these beliefs, you're able to really transform your life. And I do have three free meditations if you haven't checked them out already. One's on healing the inner The other's on changing your self-image because your self-image is projected out and other people respond to that. So it's just self-image transformation. And then my most popular meditation's been listened to more than It's attracting love and feeling There are thousands of testimonials on that free YouTube like people, it actually works if you listen to that But you can click the link below. Go to aarondoughty.com/meditation. You can download all three listen to them whenever you want and watch how much your Now, if you also wanna find out what happens when you energetically, what happens energetically this video right here explains it all. What is called no contact is one of the most powerful processes or energies that you can infuse into what you're experiencing or if you find that the more you try to make something work with somebody, the more it butchers up the process. This is.