That's a $4 billion dollar warship burning ... port! USS Bonhomme Richard had been at Naval upgrades to support the integration of F-35B The damages were so extensive that the ship had to have been lost to fire in a shipyard environment, programs and resources? Well, ask USS Miami, the victim of an onboard fire 8 years earlier, resulting in her decommissioning. Turns fuel and heat ... but for it to continue burning ... you need neglect, mismanagement and incompetence. On Sunday, July 12th 2020, around 8 AM, of the amphibious assault ship, USS vehicle decks are basically storage areas for Bonhomme Richard had been undergoing it's very well-understood that the risk of significantly higher than when the ship is equipment and materials that contractors bring and the fact that some onboard systems This was in fact the key takeaway from USS Miami fire in 2012, and resulted in namely the "8010 Manual", an Industrial Ship I suppose the key takeaway from the is that policies and procedures are no good, Around 8:10 AM, a junior sailor who was that's one level above where the fire was, noticed But because she didn't smell smoke, she of the approximately 138 sailors that were Shortly after, another sailor observed white to tell the officer-of-the-deck about the the first sailor saw the white fog, that the fire The announcement was delayed because sailors like smoke from starting a Diesel Generator, That announcement was the first time that about the fire on his ship. The CDO is the absence of the Commanding Officer. In this case, very first duty day as CDO. He stepped out and and immediately contacted the Commanding of calling him, he sent him a text message. He also texted the Executive Officer. and even and executive officers within a few minutes, house or, ship is on fire, you really We are already 30 minutes no firefighting efforts have been done. A but forget about that, because it took almost until any fire suppression agents were deployed out of control. But the reasons that led When initial responders from Ship's no one shared the same understanding of what Because the ship was in maintenance, some more than 87% of the ship's fire stations however, wasn't the quantity of fire stations which fire stations were active, and which the ship unsuccessfully, trying to locate a Shortly after 8:30 AM, FedFire crew from Naval was berthed. All US Naval bases have federal Interestingly, no one from Bonhomme Richards had contacted FedFire. Someone working on You have to realize that now, in addition to a second entity, which is FedFire, has shown up efforts of the sailors and FedFire are Unfortunately the Command Duty Officer was on day checked in with the CDO, they were not provided So they got to work on their own, pulling their side Aircraft Elevator into the Hangar, and then to the lower V, where the fire was. But going into the sideport door, which was located immediate access to the Upper V. But that wasn't of direction and leadership from Ship's Force On top of that, the fire fighting compatible with the Navy's fire My understanding is that fire departments on FedFire didn't have the appropriate adapters At 9:05, almost an hour into the fire, Bonhomme text message arrived at Naval Base San Diego, municipal fire departments, which were organized crew from FedFire and the crew from San Diego so their efforts could not be integrated. A lot of According to the investigation report, throughout there were no attempts by the Commanding Officer, integrate civilian firefighters with the sailors. that FedFire had taken control of the firefighting Around 9:15, the Bonhamme Richard leaders who proper breathing apparatus to evacuate By 9:30 AM, all Bonhomme Richard But wait a second, if office buildings have sort of fire suppression system? Well they do. shipboard firefighting systems, including Aqueous an aqueous film that spreads across the surface effectively suffocating the fire hazard. put into action, in part because maintenance was part because the crew lacked familiarity with At this point, combustible materials stored in through the lower V, creating additional fires. partners eventually engaged the fires in Upper joined them in their efforts. But shortly both FedFire and San Diego Fire Department and ordered the withdrawal of all firefighters because at 10:50 AM, less than five minutes after a major explosion rocked the ship, blowing firefighters and Sailors. After the explosion, Even though the firefighting efforts continued none of it could bring Bonhomme Richard back. The the fire caused some compartments to reach The interior of the ship's superstructure, made converting into molten metal that In the aftermath of the fire First and foremost, everyone was wondering suspected to have started the fire, and was under more than 2 years after investigations began, Other investigations looked into the reason They found that during the 19 months that the allowed for the accumulation of significant risk an ineffective fire response. Basically the ship the sailors assigned to the ship did not have Naval Base San Diego had failed to ensure respond to a shipboard fire, and finally, across various organizations that Repairs to the ship were estimated to take up so the ship was decommissioned on April 15th, Ltd. in Texas for $3.6 million dollars. After the ship would be broken up and recycled. A Richard was too large to transit the Panama from San Diego, the aircraft elevators and the fit through the locks of the canal, making it It remains to be seen whether the lessons now USS Bonhomme Richard, would prevent