Hey everybody. Today I want to talk with you Or Persistent Depressive Disorder. What is that? And what do we do if we have it? So stay tuned. So like I said, Today I'm going to talk to you In the DSM 5, they changed the name to be But the symptoms aren't any different. And the diagnostic criteria So whatever we call it, And for my benifit. I'm going to call it Dysthymia. Because that's what I went to school I was studying for my exams, So, today I am going to talk to you I know many of you have reached out and And what makes Dysthymia different Is that Dysthymia is a little bit of a That goes on for a really long period of time. In order to get the diagnosis. You have to have had this depression for If you are a child, one year. And the symptoms can't go away. Or subside for more than So you can see how hard this could Because what that means is that You're not enjoying your For a really long period of time. And often, I find my clients Will even report back to me about Or maybe occasions and celebrations And they will just kind of talk about them It wasn't that great. Oh it was okay. Nothing gets them really excited. And the thing that I really want to talk More so than the diagnostic criteria. Because it's similar to that of depression. Is get help for it sooner I find people who struggle with Dysthymia, Have been, they had this low grade Before they ever talk to someone. I was just reading an article Saying that the average person with The average person with depression doesn't Struggling for about two years. That's the average. And another fact I found is that, it's By the time that they get the help that And that's why sharing these Because the sooner we can And the sooner people reach out for help. The sooner they can feel better. We can get the support that we need. Because, depression is a serious thing. Dysthymia is a serious diagnosis. And the way that you would know if you Is if you have some of these symptoms The number one, and the most Is a loss of interest in things that you I called it in my other video, anhedonia. Because that's the term that we use in But it really just means that you don't Like I have a couple of clients who And they are just not doing it anymore. Because it just doesn't bring them the Notice that that's happening to you. Speak up. Reach out for help. Another way to notice is, If you have a loss of appetite. Or maybe an increased appetite. Can also not sleep at all, Or you may want to sleep all day long. And never want to get out of bed. Getting out of bed is like the Everybody experiences this differently. But if you are noticing shifts in your If you are just feeling really If your confidence is kind of just Notice these things. Because it could be a sign or a symptom And the sooner we can get diagnosed. The better the outcome. Right. Now the one differentiation Is when we are adults. It's those symptoms that I That's how we diagnose it. We may not enjoy things. We struggle to sleep. Or we sleep too much. We eat too little. Or we eat too much. All of those things. Now if we are a child. We are under 18. It tends to represent itself more in And lashing out. A lot of people say that it goes Most children also meet the criteria And they will struggle in school. They'll have trouble in social situations. They lack the social skills of They will yell at teachers. They are irritable with friends. They are irritable with their parents. They kind of are just struggling They are feeling really down. They don't know what's wrong. And they are frustrated. I think that's the number one thing Is: 'I just feel really frustrated.' And no wonder. If you are just feeling really down and And everybody else around you is seeming Being hunky dory, everything's good. It would feel kind of bad, right. And so the thing that's important to With children it goes on They say it's ADD or ADHD. They don't look further. They don't find out if they Or they are feeling down. They don't ask them about it. Because it presents itself differently. So know that if you are having And you're a child. It's not like the adult. It could be the same thing. It's okay to reach out for help. It's okay to ask your doctor if maybe If they have already diagnosed And they have kind of pushed it off. and you just have a prescription Or whatever. It's okay to ask again. The thing about Dysthymia that bothers Is that it goes undiagnosed. And untreated for years. So if you find yourself struggling with this. And you, or this is a diagnosis Not all is lost. The sooner we reach out for help. The sooner we start talking about it. The sooner we start looking for And friends. And people who can make sure that we are The sooner we can start feeling better. And more like oursleves. Because the most important thing I don't want them to lose sight And how things used to be. How great things can be in Because you can get there too. Don't forget to subscribe to my channel. I put out videos five days a week. And you don't want to miss them. Right. And also leave your comments below. I'm always reading through those. If you have any feedback or any videos I'm always looking through those For some good tips and tricks. And I answer questions. Also don't forget to like this video. You can find me on twitter. And tumblr. And facebook. And instagram. I'm everywhere. And don't forget to check out Because we've got great things Subtitles by the Amara.org community