I welcome everyone. The PMN-2 is one of the most widely used anti-personnel mines in the world. They are produced in millions of batches. As part of the front, they stand in the hundreds of thousands. In some directions they are put in tens of thousands. Now they are still starting to use the PMN-4 in large quantities, but the PMN-2 is used by different parties to the conflict, so it is one of the most common mines that we will come across for a long time to come. The mine is fully equipped, it is brought into combat position in one action. With this check, you need to roll the wire, it does not matter if it is clockwise or counterclockwise. You just need to break the safety wire. And pull it towards you, thereby initiating the long-range cocking mechanism. Here we dismantled such a combat mine. The ring is threaded, it is removed normally, but it is sometimes quite difficult to remove it. She has a clamping ring, then this ring. Rubber insert with hard ring. And here is the target sensor. It has a central rod, these loops provide the force on the edges. That is, if you press here, he will rest against the loop and press on the center. This cover comes off. Here is the drummer. Here you can see traces of explosives. This is how she looks inside. We also removed the bolts that hold this cover. And under this cover is an engine with a capsule. This is how the long-range cocking mechanism looks like, it is called a bellows. Basically, it's a compressed air box. I'm holding him now, because he will jump out, usually the lid holds him. When we break the wire... See the rod? He holds this lever. And when we pull this rod towards us, this blocker starts to rise up. There is compressed air inside, because of it, the blocker begins to rise up. In normal mode, this happens quite quickly, in about 30 seconds. Here he again squeezed, let's wait, I, it seems, did not block the air hole. Then we will analyze it carefully. Let me put the lid on for now so it pops off. Okay, I'll take it off for now. Here, crawling, rising. When he exits, he will unlock the move move. That is, he must stand in this position at the top. And unlock the engine. Wait, rise. Rises. Everything, he has already unlocked. But notice, he unlocked the axle, now the engine can go forward, but it doesn't go. Why? I will now remove this bellows mechanism. This is how it looks. Below is a spring that presses on this base. And here was the air. And he tries to press from below, but he can't, because there is compressed air, and the little hole through which he comes out. The axis is unlocked like this. Now consider the mechanism here. There are a needle and a battle ledge. And he leans into it. Let's now consider a mine from the point of view of deactivation. This mine is now in combat condition. To bring her to a safe position, you can start by unscrewing the intermediate detonator, which is located here. It opens with a special key. And then the intermediate detonator. Remove the sealing gum with some object and shake out the intermediate detonator. Everything, now if we click on the target sensor, the engine will go forward and cotton will immediately come. That is, everything is in a combat position. The stroke of the engine in front of the drummer occurs only at the moment of pressing. Now I will show what I recommend doing when disarming. When disarming, I recommend starting with this node. Not from an intermediate detonator, but from this node. Firstly, to open it you need a special key, or a large hexagon. This cross can be opened with pliers. And we're spinning. Unscrew this plug. All. We remove this plug. Remove this spring. We remove the drummer with the capsule. And now I'm demonstrating. Yes, please pay attention, this analysis took place on a fully combat mine. Please don't do this. Battle Capsule. Combat intermediate detonator. If by accident there was an impact here, the explosive is in place. But, as they say, professionals work. I live. And, of course, there is no engine. Look, I press here, nothing goes. I press and it jumps forward. That is, at the moment of pressing, this engine jumps forward. Now let's see what it consists of. Capsule, take away for now. We have a capsule for this track. This is how we have everything installed inside. You see, there is a ledge under the drummer. Unlike the PMN-1, the striker is held not by a protrusion, but by a smooth part. To put it in place, you need to squeeze and push it. Now he has slipped again. You see, I lived and advanced a little. Now I push and pull again. That is, he does not rest. It's held on by that spring. She just presses on him and he is held in his channel. This engine rests against that ledge with this protrusion. And so he cannot go forward. He leans into him. And when we press the target sensor, this protrusion goes down, frees the stroke of the drummer, and the needle of the drummer passes along this line, reaches this window and enters the capsule. The capsule explodes, and through this window it initiates an intermediate checker, and the intermediate checker starts the explosive. Here is such an interesting design for the PMN-2 mine. He showed on a specific combat example, on a combat mine. Well, no questions asked. Is it educational? Is it exactly the same? Here is a combat mine, here are the parts it consists of. As you can see, there are a lot of metal parts in it, so any more or less decent metal detector detects it. Therefore, know the design, do not make mistakes, and take care of yourself.