Checkmate with 2 Bishops in the endgame. Do you think this is difficult? Don't worry. I have a very easy and simple chess strategy In this chess tutorial, I will show you the play to win this game. So stay tuned till the end and keep watching Hello Chess Friends, it's me, Jeetendra Advani. If this is your first time on this channel and become a better chess player, then start you don't miss any of my videos. There are a lot of different ways to checkmate What I am going to show you is the most simplest Keep in mind that you need to mate your opponent waste any time and plan accordingly. Okay so let's start. Let's take any random position like this. The first step is to position your bishops central squares. So how do you that? Well, it's simple. First, let's Move our dark squared bishop As you can see, we have got control of the Now you will play bishop to g2 to gain control It's check, so black will again have to move That's Step 1 complete. Now our next step would be to occupy the center So basically you need to get both your bishops So first, let's play bishop to d4. If black plays king to f4, then you occupy black plays king to e6, then you play bishop You are done with Step 2. NOW If you look at the board carefully, you with our bishops and hence the black king Now our next step would be to bring our king The main idea here is to use YOUR king to In this case, you need to bring your king Remember that if you bring your king to c5, you bring your king to f5, then your bishops So basically your bishops will move in the Let me show you how this works. Let's bring our King to c5 first. So let's just go fast. As you can see, the BLACK king is preventing So we will play a waiting move and now AFTER Step 3 is now complete. As I told you earlier, the next step is to our king is on c5. As you can see, again the black king is preventing play a waiting move with our king. Once the black king steps back, then we can The tricky part HERE is to know which bishop Well, the logic is simple. Just make sure that the black king should bishops on its next move. Say, for example, if you move this bishop its next move. So the correct move would be to play this Now it does not matter what move black plays. In any case, you are going to play bishop Our bishops are now getting closer to the If you look at the board, you will see that to play with. Our next step would again be to repeat the Get your king to either d6 or g6 and then If king to d6, then move your bishops this this way. So we play king d5, waiting move. Then once the black king steps away, we play It is Black's turn so he will play king e8. Now shift the bishops. Bishop to f6 can be attacked by black so we From here, black has 2 options. He can either go this way or this way. If he goes this side, then bishop f6 check. Black has no option so he has to move his Then we play king c6. Again, black has no option except B8. We will now play King B6. Now black can go either a8 or c8. No matter what move he plays, your moves are You will first block the c8 square by playing by playing bishop e5 and finally you will Let me show you. After king a8, bishop f5. Then king B8 and bishop e5 check. King a8 and bishop e4 checkmate. Now if king c8, then bishop f5 check. King B8 and bishop e5 check. Finally, king goes to a8 and bishop e4 checkmate. Now lets just go back to this position and From here, if the black king goes this way, As you can see, the black king is now left Our next plan of action would be to position After this, we need to push the black king square and block the f8 square by playing Now black has to play king h8. The king is now trapped and restricted to What you now need to do is to block the g8 But you can't do that right away because if a stalemate or a draw since black will have So be careful, you will have to play a waiting Let's play bishop f5. Then after king g8, you will play bishop e6 Finally, king h8 and bishop f6 checkmate. So that's it guys, hope you enjoyed this chess Let me know in the comments if you want to Don't forget to like this video if you find Click the round Subscribe icon to watch more If you have any questions or video suggestions, For some interesting chess tips, tricks and Links are in the description box below. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in