What defines a human? We're obviously hairless, bipedal apes. We're very sophisticated language, not just one of them define it. We're obligate tool users. We basically creative. Our tools and our language have allowed and of course we have spread I believe we can trace all of owners of skulls like this. This is Sangiran It was excavated on the island of Java, Indonesia million years ago. Today we call In my opinion they're the first hominins who truly to their technology, their globe spanning abilities, these chaps and chapettes were an and today I just want to break down what why I think they are the first true humans. Homo erectus is a really well studied fossil specimen but despite that its origins 2.5 million years ago there were multiple that all overlapped in time in east africa, but Homo habilis has been considered for a long time with the stone tools, but some anthropologists in our genus, to really be homo and uh is Homo rudolfensis seems to be a larger version species is still up for debate as well. and rudolfensis as being distinct but because them both early homo. With the separation still kind of unclear it's hard to know The oldest homo erectus fossil that the scientific old and come from Koobi Fora in Kenya, overlapping but one of the most famous early from outside of Africa from Georgia Incredible! Really old!! This showed that homo erectus had made long it evolved and that it didn't need a big brain &quot;whoa steady on&quot; I hear you say. Small brains? What are we if not, you know, big walking brains? there is actually a ton of variation. They lived There's so much variation that you might find homo ergaster. We're gonna ignore that convention all in as homo erectus. Despite this variation there are some key uniting features that Compared to early homo and australopithecines they but the first major change were these big brains. like the ones found in Dimanisi, Georgia Bigger than a chimpanzee but not by a lot. If that lived half a million years later in cc's. To put that into perspective a modern homo of around 1350 cc's. So within that half a million That's huge! That's really significant! Erectus was also the first hominin that had the bowl shaped pelvises. Mathematical models run for five hours straight, which is way Obviously you can't run that long if you're studies of our genetics have shown that million years ago meaning that our skin erectus was almost certainly the first kind of abundant across the entire world, across our &quot;uhhh yawn fest, big deal&quot; but uh in reality it would be hard Together all these things signal major that homo erectus had. Homo erectus didn't they would have looked much more further to get their food and the food to fuel this huge brain expansion. Erectus have lived a lifestyle that was familiar to It's obviously difficult for us to say exactly how tell from the bones that they left behind and access to the most nutritionally dense parts of these were big animals too, really big animals however they went about it they were certainly Now running and hunting is all well and our evolution but a defining feature of our language. So could homo erectus talk? That's For language to exist of course there needs to be met. The first would be larger brains which but just because it's big doesn't mean it's the brain to function at a much higher the guy sat in his garage talking to a spoon the source in the description the evolution of notes there for that one, these genes in the lab Intriguingly it seems that these genes in the archaeological record. Now I'm not saying far from it, but like all things language is unlikely that it appeared fully formed just in that the building blocks of language could sort of linguistic capability maybe some sort of it's hard to say for sure because words archaeological record but if we look at the tools it certainly indicates that these chaps The technology that homo erectus is most known evolutionary advantage, is fire. The main idea and energy digesting raw meat and difficult to thick sturdy jaws. But once we developed fire it to take it easier and our brains to absorb that that they are now. This is a great theory, it's with it though in that the earliest evidence for agree with is only 780,000 years old, from Israel. in the fossil record. Earlier possible sites in Kenya, which could push back the evidence for The only problem is it it's just difficult to say fires, they can occur perfectly naturally on deliberate fire use, it does raise interesting a new territories, colder oooff made jump then. How did they do this without fire to keep Perhaps they had some form of rudimentary Perhaps neither? Maybe our ancestors weren't even Olduvai Gorge, dated to around 1.7 million years hot springs. This led the investigators to in our evolution? Instead of roasting meats and I, I absolutely love this idea. I can't help but compare it to those Japanese monkeys Just, just imagining like an ancient homo just having an absolutely fantastic time the same I hope that that was how our evolution went down, Whilst we're on the subject, around homo erectus and water. Now obviously homo do it consciously. They were almost certainly just niches that they could fill, just following their the world. But they may have genuinely made some Recently a new hominin has been found on the ago stone tools dated to around 700,000 years so special about these discoveries is that the was going on. There is no plausible way a hominin least they would have had a short sea crossing of to find out exactly how far, but a few miles. So, get there? Was it accidental? Were they swept Did they deliberately set out to cross these This is a paleolithic hand axe, The evolution of homo erectus coincides with in the archaeological record. Although it appears humankind. Before this, hominins were producing made those made no effort to shape the core of and uh that was it. Acheulean tools on the other revolution and as you can see it required the nice shape. Even a simple one might remove 20 or a degree of creative thinking on the part of visualize and understand that through steps, this handaxe was inside it. It's quite shows an absolutely remarkable degree of of Acheulean handaxes probably did not have one they were certainly used to butcher I'm sure, really the original swiss army knife. These butcher an animal with this you could certainly How much homo erectus worked with wood and bone is difficult to say. The oldest wooden spears that old or so uh Schoningen spears, which really have a through sheer luck and fluke. They were probably but it is within the same time span as erectus would have been more than capable of of or 30 steps to turn a rock into a hand axe for As for bone tools again the record Some of the most distinctive come from Olduvai potential barbed point. Now that is really and evidence suggests they did, then that again intelligence. If producing tools and working feature of ours, then for sure homo erectus oh [_] hell my legs are so stiff. Bloody hell! Out of all of the defining features art is probably the most defining out of all like us homo sapiens. So if I'm trying to not whether they produced art is key example of creative expression by a homo The layer containing the shell was dated to So there's absolutely no question it's in the as you can see someone has drawn some lines on it, simple lines count as a creative expression, as by some ancient hominin? In my opinion it doesn't language our artistic expression is also something to do, and the seeds of all this creativity that with just a simple careless act. A slip of the caught the eye of the hominin and another and another. In my could have been the spark, could have connected connected before and and led to absolutely all Not bad if I do say so myself. Eat your heart Everywhere we find erectus we see that it record spans almost two million years, from sort to 117,000 years ago in Java, Indonesia. So what we're not 100% sure but it's likely that the Indonesia the woodlands were rapidly becoming rain became hotter and more humid maybe erectus uh Erectus's legacy has lived on though. As it populations that eventually evolved into candidate is homo floresiensis, found The fossils that we found so far date to between of human evolution in prehistory is really human history where we go &quot;70,000 years it's so adults seemingly were only one meter tall which Different studies have arrived at different floresiensis descended from erectus and Not everyone agrees though. Others would argue unknown species just due to some primitive australopithecus actually made it out of Africa. in that region for a very long time they are floresiensis probably suffered from if erectus was able to travel across water, habitually, they couldn't just choose to could have just upped and left, they could This pressure towards dwarfism The really weird homo naledi has been proposed made a video on those guys, check it out. Naledi and so far 15 individuals were recovered Tres mysterious! While we don't know for sure if erectus is their director ancestor it's a solid bet given really modern features that naledi has which just We are pretty confident though that it gave and denisovans. The identity of the last common still highly debated. We know that an ancestor was did we descend directly from it? Some, a minority, called the multi-regional hypothesis, argues that erectus it could have sort of simultaneously through continuous gene flow. As I said, that is Let me add a little bit more information as thinking, now that we know that homo sapiens that the multi-regional hypothesis yes and no is basically the answer to that. Because of that genetic research we now know that Africa, Europe and Asia so in that sense our the multi-regional hypothesis gave no special and the genetic evidence suggests is that we Most of our evolution took place there but it very small amounts of absorption you could say of the degree of how much interbreeding happened. Others think that there might have been that erectus that stayed in Africa evolved sometime around 800,000 years ago roughly. Homo The ones who stayed in Africa evolved into homo Asia evolved into neanderthals and denisovans. The these various species is not clear and this debate flalalalala it's taken me because it's just so difficult to solve. There date to that crucial time period of sort of 800 in that very rare event it just complicates to say. It's difficult to talk with any happened half a million to one million years ago, I'd love to finish this video with an analogy. interacting as a family we can't help but their expressions, their games, it's just all back in time a million years to some cave sitting around a fire, cooking, making tools, recognize them as human. Their relationship to us, all the differences between us, despite the huge You could say that there's a little erectus in