Hey, how are you doing? Today I'm going to show you how strumming pattern. It's a super acoustic guitar, it works on electric both available seems a little easier maybe start off with that one. the technique in detail. If you right it's relatively easy to If you get it wrong it will always be the first thing we'll look at. of very specific strumming patterns but it is the kind of technique as well and make up your own strumming Now, the first thing here is I can hand getting involved at all. It's all in that hand. A lot of here. It's not. It's all gotta be the going on here? How I'm I able to like I'm just doing a regular strum revealed if I move my hand a little happening in slow motion and with part of the palm of the hand, the strings first and then the strum So the actual motion I'm going it's coming down, the hand hits on. So in real slow motion, we've Right? So when you see like that, actually what's happening when it's arriving first and then the strum It is like, there's no time difference when it comes for real but you way. The first step is to feel it not an inward motion. It's down have this on a down strum not on feel of moving your hand down onto on it. So that's your first motion arm and then the whole of the edge strings. Not just the lowest strings out, not just the thickest strings It's gotta to cover all of them. of all, that hand just making a the strings. That's something that like that. Getting the feeling of your hand will go to slightly to cover all of those strings. OK? to feel fairly relaxed to do that. You untill it sort of sits in there and it doesn't feel completely clunky, to do this it, if NITSUJ is anything clunky still. Now as soon as you've want to think about it going down the end. So hand down, strum. Hand point out that the fretting hand is use that to mute all of the strings properly. OK? You'll always going weird things with your chords if practice this without the fretting Just rest it on your leg or whatever. comes down, strum. It will feel and that's OK. Down, strum. Down, Down, strum. Down, strum. Down, Until it's just happening on it's and smaller the more you practice you go any further, just doing get a nice muted hit. Now there's You're hearing the pick hitting bit as well...you can just hear it hitting actually on the metal of I'm exagerating it now, I'm just is a combination of these strings That combination that gives it a sure the first thing that you want that. The first 4 or 5 practice just...actually the first one will It's gonna be like that. You're all the time. You try to find that is going to mute all of the strings. Don't be in a hurry. Don't rush Make sure you get it right. I keep practice makes permanent, so practice the mistake over and over again. something about it being very foolish again and expect the result to be stuff and get it right. Just nice Now once you're through that and recommend starting off with a really chord on beat 1, the hit and then 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4. Now putting what a drummer does. Now you have boxing but a drummer's usual standard kick drum, that's the big round do, do, do kind of sound. That the snare drum which is the one here, would normally happen on this kind of do, ka, do, ka, do, ka do, ka, do, ka, do, ka, do and it's snare drum. They do play around it's not a set rule that it always very, very standard kind of a pattern. along a bit, it adds a real kind playing. So the easiest start is you like because remember the chord is being done with your picking hand. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 1, 2, 3, 4... Now what your looking for here is the feeling of consistency with feel no difference than if you're It sounds completely different hit in there. But the actual feeling is the same. I've still got that the arm feeling which is the key some time on that first getting open regular chord and then mixing pattern that most people like doing thing where you have still the all of the other strums, the downs one is gonna take a little more slow. I'm going to do it on D chord. up, down, up, hit, up. That would OK? To start off with you want Down, up, hit, up, down, up, hit, to note here is a strum on the hit. underneath the strings ready for the pick is the thing that will go and then your part of your kind of rebound straight away after gonna be ready for that upstroke get us to the practice of it going of that hit, ready to do an upstrum up, down, up, hit, up, down, up, up, hit, up... What ends up happening when you where you do the percussive hit You've still got the consistent where you've got the thing in of the wrist, feels to be like a Like a flicky feeling to it because the pick goes after it, it ends up to it. So it does a little different If I was just going... You remember as well that one of the So hopefully you're already a little in an accent on beat 2 and 4. So in the extreme and putting on that 1 &amp; 2 &amp; 3 &amp; 4 &amp; 1 &amp; 2 &amp; 3 &amp; 4 &amp; It's really, really cool little there are lots and lots of different experiment with the pattern. If a good idea to keep it fairly consistent time and sometimes not add that like the drummer dropped his stick it looses something. So you do You might change it say not having and adding the percussive hits more groove. There's lots of ways if it's on it should usually be be off. You could totally experiment want to try like quite a nice one 'push' a chord. So... I'm changing to the C on the &amp; 1 &amp; 2 &amp; 3 &amp; 4 &amp;... And also I should actually, I just if you're not changing the chord, change on the 1, quite often that it's something that we talked about is often open strings if you change. it's gonna sound fine to do that. I'm exagerating now. Definitely doesn't sounds like &quot;Oh he the old A11 with an E bass sneaking to do that. So don't let that worry if you're practicing these things weird. If you're going... It might kind of sound a little once it's up to tempo, it will song is that slow, you probably you should have time to make the that I mentioned more than a few of groove and making things feel like this the first few weeks of more, you gonna be thinking a lot. technique. You're going to be be looking at your hand. You're get it right. That's all cool. Once and you feel confident with it, zone of trying to make things feel play this kind of, you know... I'm really looking to locking to Sometimes I kind of imagine like But I want to feel nice. It might even be I'm adding a tiny there and that's OK. I have done and still do long I'm just playing a simple strumming it feel as good as I can. That will connect with. I think that's expression and... If you're feeling listening will get that vibe back getting into that zone and because like this it's easy to kind of it and that's not what you want. feel relaxed and nice. It's a real this kind of practice. Like I said the technique first of all then strumming pattern down, hit, 2 and the 4, the hit on the 2 and I would recommend going straight up, hit, up, down, up, hit. Such Works for loads and loads of different maybe not your old faithfull, it's pattern of all times, but it's usefull one. I'm sure you're going uses for this one. Hope I'll see you for plenty more very I hope you enjoyed this lesson. hitting that subscribe and like button. with this in the comments, it's Remember there are tons of lessons here on YouTube as well. I'll see You all take care of yourself.