Electrical fundamentals, the electrical circuit electrical circuit operates is let's say it's with the electrons travel from negative, the going to get into that, let's just say they And they go through an overcurrent protection And then it's going to go to the light bulb. neutral conductor going back over to this if you if you could, I'd like you guys to home, I'd like you to write some fundamental team, write this down, get something and write with something at the end. A lot of times, forget, I forget to do it. See if we can make we want to remember is this current, leave are facts. Okay, correct, leave the source because that's number one thing right now, through the load, and returns back to that's the way it works. Now, alternating current a magnetic field through a conductor, that circuit. If you move it one direction, the the right. And then if you move the magnetic goes in the other direction. But no matter the current laser source and return to the running an AC circuit where the current laser and alternates current, you still have the which has a primary and current leaves the then the creates magnetic coupling, and it the source and return to the source, the basic leaves the source and return to the source. not do current does not go to ground. And current does not go to ground, it goes to we're not talking about lightning protection, systems, we're talking about, hey, it's a an electrical circuit, it leaves a source, works. It's not one the ground. Okay, let's an electric shock. All right, we can see the laser source return to the source. If somebody then electrons will lead the source returned also traveled through the individual travel means that there's a parallel path, this person important is we're going to get into grounding and you guys gonna be like, what the heck you don't understand electrical theory, I any point that you started getting confused, the internet, call my office up and say listen, I understand. But I don't know what he's talking book, which is theory, which is practical the NAC, you're not going to understand this, electrical theory. This is not a theory course, We know that you know theory. Alright, let's lead the source, they travel back to the source a parallel path. And the laws of parallel are what they remain the same. Number three, same. That's another important concept we a parallel circuit remains to every resistance to this graphic here. That means that if I meter across this light bulb would be 120. be what 120 you guys follow the logic there. with a conductive path to the earth or from hand to hand that's making conductive electrons are they trying to go to ground? we said with number two, right? electrons back to the number one source. So looking are going around No, they're not going to as a return path because this system is grounded, I'll talk about what a system grounding is system is grounded, and you make contact with the electrons are not going to ground, they're to the source. Now let's look at the graphic it goes to the heart to the foot, and it travels to try and there they are going to the source to source, if you make have a hand in hand, And across this person, we'd have a volt meter, the severity electric shock how severe is and flows and the magnitude of the current. from this hand to this hand represents 1000 from this hand to this foot, it would be what for hand hand. Now these values from the cei get the information there. Now, hand to your leaning on a bar Joyce, and you happen to down from hand to hand is 1000. hand to your your heart. So you can see that, depending much you're going to be impacted, which we'll is it takes small amount of currents through electrocuted. And current is a function of slide. Current, which is how many amps is the contact voltage and the resistance of here. The resistance of this body is 1000 This is the C II II standard in 1984 was established We'll go with the worst case. Now this 1000 could be a lot more than 1000 offs. I mean, be 10,000 ohms. But it could be a lot less. hard rough hands where you kind of got to voltage because your contact resistance is gripping around it, are you just touching So we're working with 1000 ohms, as a standard, could be higher, but let's just go with 1000 ohm resistor, connected what in parallel again, if I put a voltmeter between these two things the voltage between these two points here ohm resistor and you apply 120 volts to it, traveling through the person through the body electrons are not trying to go to ground. are going to the source. We can do the math we're not going to worry about impedance. 120 volt circuit, typical circuit person's words, it's point one, two amperes. Well, 120 milli amperes 120 milli amperes or point it into the context and let's let's apply electrical sensation is point three 2.4 milliamp So he says, you know I'm feeling a tingle, less than one half of 1/1000 of one ampere. 120 volts is 120 milliamp years, you're gonna So that's just perception. Let's go to the it but you're not uncomfortable. Then you like, hold on, whoa, I just got shocked. So ampere. Now you'll notice that there's two higher value. We'll talk about that. The next go threshold. That's when you've you got on shot. But above that value, you cannot let game over, you're going to die. Now let's affiliate fibrillation. Now, ventricular fibrillation, electrical signal, and it has its own power it generates its own energy. And it also generates what to do. It's not the brain that does it. heart and you see the heart pumping. Okay, So now the body is on 40 hertz frequency works United States, 50 hertz, AC and Europe. So AC circuits to the heart and the body's frequency and you get into the blood, now you get an hitting nerves. nerves are what nerves are muscle fibers which are in parallel. And all through the heart. We're not talking milli That's why when you get into healthcare facilities, swimming pools, you get in when there's water, body. It's major problems. But no matter what Now imagine the heart has his own power supply It's sending out signals that open and close in at the wrong time at the right frequency. is trying to reset itself. It's trying to It's called particular fibrillation. It's chambers, the way it's supposed to be hitting a defibrillator, they hit that thing and boom, to stop, stop. Once they stopped the hard tried to get the frequency tried to get the is we don't want to get an electrical circuit for a fraction of a second. Where it gets the baby, and then it's over. Now, here's done in 1960. I think it was and I can't remember of Charles diesel and Mel Berkeley. And if office so you can go on the internet. I'm one that did it. He's one of determined gfcis here. But how do they say okay, we're gonna it. And that's how they got these numbers. it. And over here, you can see this guy right go now you don't see all the photos in here. look at the photos, when you see the guys toward it, you see all the other guys in the there doing that. So you know, you know, if 18 females, females like I'm done. So the they are for men. But the studies have actually sensitive man, I got five daughters and a works really, it's that the woman is lighter weight was 100 pounds and a male's weight here, it has to do with mass back to looking electrical sensation determining the perception one half of the milliampere perception let that guy how the store he is. So that's of level. So this has to do with mass 160 pound about 16 milli amperes it's one milli ampere a 200 pound person would have a let go threshold would have a Lego threshold of what five milli amperes plus or minus one GFCI does not mean won't kill most people but if you're 50 pounds All right, we understand what electrical circuit an electric shock how it works, how the current shock mean like This is the whole purpose to make it safe. My electric shock. Here's Easy. Remove the source of voltage by opening fault is determined. Alright, hold on. Did How do you make it safe? Turn the circuit and something is energized, there's nothing can do is to make it safe. Turn it off. I give me offenders right now, because that's turn it off. Let's talk about well, how do amp breaker here when supplying a panel over we've already established current is in a travels to the enclosure and look what it right here. Getting back to the source. If theory. Again, if you don't understand this, path, that's called a low impedance path to then when you have a fall, fall current with fall current. Now the way circuit breakers the higher the current, the quicker time, have 120 volt circuit here. And then it's one face to the ground. This is 120 volt ground path right here. This is called an equipment And then this is going to be called a system jumper which we'll talk about later on. And These are all titles that you know what we really matters is there's a fault that hits path, it's called an effective ground fault to the source. And the purpose of this effective we want to have 100 amp breaker more than want as much as we can the turn the breaker at this example again. So if I have a fault current path here, so low impedance, that 100 amp breaker right here would open. Now the currents flow, talking about the concepts. make something safe that what do we say that safe was what the turnoff. So that's it the turn it off is what if you want a is in a by making sure I guess a one would be what to every piece of metal that has an electrical it. If you bring a conductor back from the we will always turn off the protective device. done, then we're going to turn it off, you'll it safe. So take a look at the graphic here. you have to do what you have to bring an equipment of equipment. Now sometimes you'll see people in a pole serves absolutely no purpose is But we'll talk about that later on. Alright, Because we talked about the electrical circuit and we talked about how to make it safe my I thought grounding Mike I thought electrons take the path of least resistance know what device know, what does a grantee bring everything of those things. No. Well, then what is grounding? is it's the earth. Pretty simple. What does connected something to the earth or to some conducted by the extends the earth I'm going to just tell you what this is because electrode conductor and it's going to go from is going to go to this structural steel. Now is a footer electrode. And since this anchor is considered a concrete encased electrode, And the electrode is also in the earth here, to the earth. In other words, the earth doesn't something to the earth when it doesn't come ground and the dirt, and then you run a wire a wire to the ground rod, you run a wire to you run a wire and rebar doesn't really matter that's connected to the earth, then it's what Take a look at the graphic here, ground zero, conductive that's purposely designed to beat Okay, hold on, Mike. He talked about electrical He talked about how to make it safe by turning grounding. But grounding, you said doesn't Grounding doesn't bring anything. tangible electrons are not taking that path leads with what's the purpose of grounding? That is what snippet that I took out of industrial power who wrote this in 1952. This is one of the this, the word grounding is commonly used system grounding and equipment grounding. is that number five, you guys make a note, five, is that number five. So number five, grounding. Okay. So now we got to figure out equipment grounding? Alright. Now, there are system. Let's take a look at this. Take a taking this course? Did you understand electrical the system, the system secondary is insulated. And there is no fault. None of these conductors that this system is on grounded. The system connected to anything that could be an extension Scott right to the enclosure that has a connection earth. So therefore that system is not grounded. ungrounded system. But we're talking about grounding and ungrounded. Well, in system that system grounding, right? Because it's next one. Yeah, but what are the problems with an ungrounded system is that equipment voltages caused by indirect lightning and what I just said, You should have no clue But take a look at the next slide. overvoltage power systems handled by Biermann and I just books that were written in the 40s and 50s of that stuff was just golden. And in this over voltage sources, there are many varied to be damaging to the installation of AC industrial the mechanisms of which the prominent over prevented measurements such measures suggested static static electricity, you need to ground line, what do you do resonant effect with fair resident repeating intermittent short switching surges for zero current interrupting about. Because it because it's the problems go back to the graphic here. So if you go And so what Barry Beeman is saying is, hey, with undergrad assistance, and we got just suggests what you need to do is you need to about a grounded system. Now. A grounded system. it's insulated conductors and all the conductors except look right here. We take the actual electrode conductor over to a structural steel, So now we've taken this system and we grounded the system? Because Beeman explained these these different things that could take place, over voltage on the insulated system that's induced energy, all that stuff that's on those there's going to be failure rate of equipment. why would you not want an ungrounded system? systems. And there's reasons why you don't get into systems. But pretty much for today's they found the problem with ungrounded systems, move on here. So a system is grounded, take it induces energy, it brings in energy into energy that will put it will push those electrons that energy is trying to get to the earth. you're going to be damaging equipment. That's that we talked about there. So take a look energy on all those conductors is going to grounding electric amount and get to the earth pulse of energy. We're not talking about clearing what is the largest conductor required to is what six gauge. So if you have a 2000 amp your electrode what size you need six gauge this magnetic pulse of energy to the earth doesn't have an over voltage condition so rather the routing of the grounding electrode The grounding electrode conductor it's a note DAC conductor should not be any longer than bends. If you know anything about surge protection see lightning is a high frequency DC pulse of energy one way real fast. Well, what we because see inductive reactance is two pi to let's say 10,000 hertz or 20,000 hertz. resistance the inductive reactance on that a wire is astronomical. See What you don't going to some great ground you might have casing a wall casings 100 feet away man you're and well casing is 100 feet the ground I mean there's there's a term on the earth to go wire, you run 100 feet of wire you carrying to get to the earth, you'd be better off running to ground rods. And then if you're talking to understand what is the purpose of grounding Beeman said there's two types of grounding. grounding. Let's move now over into equipment grounding is what we're talking about. Real grounded to reduce arcane within the building lightning. Now, equipment grounding is different the same, the wire looks the same. Here's insulated windings with insulated conductors Yep, a lot of different nine or eight different high energy on these conductors, they end I mean, that's a major problem. So we then what a system grounding. You take these insulated make one connection from the exhale terminal, energy, we're talking about conductors, you're proper system grounding because it's the equipment grounding is different. Follow this concept. over the building steel piping, electrical And none of this piping in any way. None of parts is connected to the earth. It's not what it pushes those electrons on all those get to? It is a DC pulse, high frequency high to get to where to the earth. If you don't some plumbing pipes in there or some other connection to the earth. inside the building called. So this million volts of induce energy no place to go to. And I'll just go over to plumbing pipe. While it's doing side flashing, it could cause a fire. In addition, if you're and the equipment is not grounded, you have of voltage, you happen to be standing next that instant, you could have a side flash over to the earth. So equipment grounding of equipment, they're all what everything Another word would be what bonded together. do all with it, we make sure we go to the a look at this graphic. And how do we do that? at the service, you run a grounding electrode is connected to the neutral and you go to running a feeder to a building, you do what the equipment to the earth. This is called sure that the equipment is connected to the grounding because we're going to try to clear it's the earth. It's just a spot that you've pulse of energy, just to the earth one way We don't want a whole bunch of bands, and is called equipment grounding. Well, Mike, building, and I bring an equipment grounding ground rod in the building? Of course, understand electrode conductor as short as possible to that goes 100 feet from one building to the grounding conductor. Why do you have an equipment It's your protective conductor, do Europeans it's your protective conductor. So your green because that was I think number one was the have an equipment grounding conductor on our So equipment grounding is to provide a path parts to the earth. And let me explain something is electrical systems according NAC is not strikes an electrical system, what ever it go in you fix it. The NAC is not a lightning the electrical weapon from a direct lightning protection systems. And that way it's designed strike to air terminals, parallel those conductive We're talking about solar seed lightning goes. How does it work out? Well, here we go. energy into the atmosphere. Okay, the sun. So you raise the atmosphere, it goes up it gets cold. the molecules become ice, the ice particles start breaking apart, they get negative charges, all over the place. Now you're having equalization work out. Well. Yep. Lightning goes from cloud even from Earth to space is called sprites. talk to anybody who knows lightning, they'll So let's understand something. Nobody knows that if lightning is trying to equalize itself, something, it's going to do whatever it's against electrical systems or voltage and strike the equipment. Lightning strikes the being induced is seeking the path to the earth and cause any causing fires. Alright, let's Grounding myths. Are you ready? Alright, here necessary to clear a ground fault. How do four and number five somewhere in our list fault you have to have what you have to have low impedance from the point of a fall back You take a pole when you take it and you driving ground contact resistance and you have 120 by 25 ohms it's only 4.8 amps you know and and I've done this at my seminars in different connected to it turn on the breaker no it's to trip the breakers God did you do this at Sure. It hooked it up directly to secondary the not gonna trip but what did the guys think? trip you know if you get let's turn it off going to trip. You can well with it if you Alright. Myth number two. Current takes the all our lives matter fact I've said this when I don't think so. Take a look at this. And on the internet. A property ground electrical ground they give the electrical current the chance of someone getting shocked or getting to the bottom. The earth absorbs the overcurrent so eliminate the threat to anyone that may you kidding me? This is live stuff on the provides path to the earth. It makes it safe. at the graphic. Here's a poll is a typical do not have an equipment grounding conductor. the head connected to the poll. Well, if you current 120 volt vault was only what 4.8 amps, look right here. You got 4.8 amps. Yeah, male have been male dogs taken legal polls that Illinois had traffic signals. And they didn't at all. And mail dog took a leak and died a person. They went around. I drove ground male dog took a leak on a pole and Illinois. No, this is the kind of stuff you don't want what? They got me involved in it. They ran single thing. All the equipment, do they still been prepping ground rods and bowls didn't rods. No rod rod serves no purpose. What serves So anybody making a statement that grounding is false. Here's another myth. Grounding brings touch and step voltage will save value, absolutely that's grounded with no equipment grounding you will create a voltage gradient in the if you are three feet away, that voltage gradient So on a 120 volts or good 75% will be 90 volts. really, really complicated. So you might be what, don't even trust me, gold driver ground the current goal three feet away, realizes it's something you shouldn't even do in the got to really really be under some kind of taking think about you're taking 120 volt the rod is how many volts or 120 volts, the of voltage, and now you stick it in the dirt. at the source which means what there's a voltage gradient rise right near the electrode and resistance of the electrode to the soil. This is in the the the, the green book I Tripoli And I think this is table four, something electrode, what the percentage of the resistance that represents 25% of the resistance of that a foot away, it represents 52% of the resistance it represents 86%. All right. Here it is 1/10 of the voltage is equal to 30 volts. This saying is that you drive a ground rod, it's zero impedance, the Earth is fine, you can he was on a desktop trying to use the earth write the waveforms and be able to have it it doesn't come with connections, the earth you got to stick something in the air, when a high contact resistance, the earth has all itself is a good conductor, because it has which is great. But the problem is when you when you make a connection at one end, that the immediate connection to that location, right there. And then it gets what more soil, more paths and more paths, take a look at you have a certain amount of paths. And one And if you go three feet away, well now you've other words, you got more paths to work from, that it's, you know, it's resistance. When guess what? Now you're in the earth, now you're about 25 feet radius, which is what a 50 foot the voltage drop of circuit, okay, Curtis voltage drop of all the resistance in a circuit circuit, what the voltage drop all the resistors of the circuit, well, then you know the distribution to the resistance. So let's look at this table trust me, if 1/10 of a foot away because of resistance of the circuit, and we're only the voltage the circuit is 30 volts. And if of the contact, well, then it's 52% of the feet goes to 90 volts. So let's go here. This on the scale. Maybe we can make one the scale. convenience. If this was 120 feet long, you the voltage drop of the 120 feet? Earth only? How many balls across Okay, now here's what volts, well, then it'd be how many voltage volt drop per foot, right? I mean volts drop is a good conductor, it's the contact at one is not linear voltage is a function of how resistance is shown on this table here. Well, 68% of the resistance, while 68% of resistance go three feet away, well that represented which is 90 volts. And so that's why grounding All it does it creates a voltage gradient. in a better I mean, come on me like you know you know 8082 octane, 87 octane, 90 octane that you know that you can get 107 octane, octane in your vehicle. You're spending more the equipment you guys Know that how many know that. I'm too cheap to buy it anyway. what but if you got more money might say, job my car I love my it's a brand new car. a bit more grounded man I understand how octane don't put something more than is required comes with grounding you ground for the purpose equipment grounding. And we have methods to take a look at these graphics. False exhilarate I've been in Boeing in Seattle, Washington Redick, and all the different places and we're machines to do all kinds of great, great and And the CNC industry. 50% of them say listen, 25% of them say we want to make sure that check with the engineer, I am the engineer, I get it, I don't know whatever you think. machines and it says no, no, you don't want piece of equipment. No, you do it according But if you do, the code has rules about that. Scott. As I say, Mike, this really happens that comes in from overseas, it's got instructions, rod in. And as electrician if you do that, we're only doing this accordance with your required by the FTC. The next thing you know, out and try to tie it on hook your equipment to the middle way and creating even more problems. concepts are a little complicated, you have the rules of the NDC. Just because some manufacturer you unhook everything else, you're messing issue as a contract. Alright, let's look at this graphic. And let's Look, quipment comes in and the manufacturer And then things have a problem with the equipment. system is a dirty ground, there's noise on to disconnect your ground audio guys want I think it was number four note is what you number five was what, bring an equipment grounding can do. You cannot violate number four and that because if you don't bring an equipment you don't bring an equipment grounding conductor, turn it off and you're going to kill somebody everybody thinks what no rounded brings everything up all you know, I mean, electrons are trying people to make a deal. You need to make sure grounding conductor, you tell him Absolutely the expert, they're not the expert, you're going to happen. And they got to go nuts, kill anybody. Now, every electrical power quality considerations for CNC machines. It's power Research Institute. There are people of studies on electrical power, and every However field experiments experience a site that the rod may actually increase the risk found to be prone to have damage of internal system fault. So here are these guys got. the Savior. That's how it all works. They don't want to do this. It makes it worse look is with this this study says what is believed near the electrode causing a large current the electrodes and passing through the CNC seven. So here's figure seven, would it be it be a fault of utility? Look what happens to guys try to go to brown. So if you don't, the current I tried to go to brown. You're single electrode is connected the earth, guess Current travels on the earth. Oh, you drove We'll go up the ground rod through the equipment get back over to the building, and then go one also. That is you have utility fall. What tell you how many people want to drive around of it that home generator that buy power. a log on there because you won't standard be an application when you're supposed to a put a wire on a lug is a lug is there, you the earth if it's required by the ADC. B. instructions. And I don't think there's a the generator if there is let me know. But that. But what happens is somebody wins by inspector makes you put a login a grounding but let's say you know Mike, I need to get fight with the inspector don't upset and then Lightning strikes the earth, this creates goes through the equipment, it goes back down the circuit of the service and then back down on the conductors. If you remember the study says that it's creating a magnetic pulse. if you got a disconnect out there, who cares? that are being affected by this electrical, one, the 2014 code is going to allow because words, this is not a violation of the code. want to go to a CNC machine. Scott, let's code wise. Yeah, I don't think is a good idea. I can talk but don't they? Okay, thank you very problem. Now the 2014 code is allowing you array and connect it to the earth, oh my gosh, 50,000 $80,000 solar PV system, that's an And now make a connection to the earth from Now take a look at the current current travels you made goes through your PV array system, it goes to the inverter and now get to the to go to. Last thing you want to do that. that are raised, they genuinely believe Listen, they think it's for lightning protection. protection works. You don't take an array. to protect lightning protection. If you're to put it around it not not not make it part to go to nnpa 780. Let's go to the next myth. routing a light pole is necessary and required why do we drive around without a pole? Well, the way we always do it because the told me hammers. There is no reason but but why do Why do they put a generator, they really believe really believe that more grounding is better. the poll was a simple example. Okay, let's basic connection to it. Look at that lightning array on the top of the house, hitting that really think that if you put a ground rod Come on, guys. I mean, I know that some of live streaming or watching this on the internet just by yourself. Honestly, you're going to think that a ground rod at the bottom of pole There's just no way you can look at a graphic seen this. Look at this cute little little to this little ground right? Come on. You this. We got this huge pole that probably concrete who knows how massive of a cage it together. You got 12 of these bolts. Yo really four gauge wire off of that you're going to you actually did something Actually, Scott, that what do you guys said last night that fiberglass Pole? Yeah, yeah, I've got Eric Mike, there's a comment from rods in the instructions, the comment was made, the generac does include was, that's a video streaming guy making this probably wrong. Take a look at your new instructions. I work. I am a consultant with generac. And simply say the generator shall be grounded not doubting for a fact that that's what it So I'm pretty comfortable. But if Jenna here's have a generator and the instructions say what you have to do? Scott, what you gotta that a good idea? No. But the problem is, is the old liability with it, you follow the manufacturer's instructions, Alright, let's take a look at this. This is some documentation. And this is what was said designed for grounding. Let's read it sparks. to eliminate voltage differences. Would you there'll be the difference in voltage between So like if we're in a boat, and a fiberglass boat all connected together, and the shaft connect together, and a guy hooks up shorepower And he makes the equipment grounding conductor Well, everything in a boat be energized and we're not feeling any bolts at all true thought the propeller, they're connected to the motor, what it's 120 volts. And that's what happened his daughter, and one other daughter survived, you drive a ground rod, you put 120 volts, around the electrode and then it gets more particularly fresh water, that's all water, happens in fresh water. So bonding does bring the problem is you might be standing on the then you're dead. Let's look at the next part The statement on grounding attaching a ground in the first place. If I tie these two things I drive a ground rod does that mean now I've another one step potential. Placing ground frequented minimize the resistance of the a dangerous step potential. by driving around I'm not gonna have any voltage between the no bonding devices together so there are multiple to ground and minimize that potential difference. the now you have to worry about touching that put five ground rods all over the place. And yours was a CNC machine. Okay. And so we we equipment grounding conductors. So they went electrodes, more electrodes around that to yourself in more bite places. So that's a rounding minimizes ground resistance will of hazard. That's like the number one thing rise to a minimum also reducing the hazard. So there are multiple ground points will lower rise and duration of hazard that is false. this the problem that you guys are dealing that is drinking this Kool Aid here. And that and they're like you don't know what you're resistance but all this stuff that you just got that brochure and you try to call the it again. You're going to kill somebody Stop Don't do this. When I found out and last night about a welder and then later Ron, it occurred is a welder. They came up with this device. it'll be relevant. And I wanted to get you the concepts of welding that maybe somebody true. I made a presentation A long time ago that do the same one here. Welding Machine is nothing does is pumps electrons into a weld and whichever, come back to the same machine. It's a closed ends at the point that the gap, everything it's a portable electronic pump. And whatever in the system have to get by with a welder welding, a lot of times what happens is you Stinger lead where a welding rod is, a lot lead. But actually, if you go to Lincoln, Do not call the ground lead, call it a work for the probe connects to the metal part of it's for the purpose of bringing the electrons But if you call it a ground lead, then people to connect it to. You don't connect that you already have a problem now, right? current goes out comes back. You don't connect building somewhere, right? Because you need connect this now you're welding here. Now your motor bearings all over the place to a fire somewhere in the building because you the guy thought I'm gonna put this at ground. because the machines round the work. And I'm way not realizing No, no, no, it goes out. back. Thank you very much. Appreciate that. protect against electric shock. shock. Here's soldier electrocute and I racked with neck concludes and I'm not going to tell you the a greenbrae soldier. He's taking a shower guys comes back taking that it was 16 of these and Iraq. You know what happened? They had they have the metal water piping systems. inside there there was a fault in the water was a European kind of cable it has like a of grandpa current path but when they build were not electrical people probably wouldn't rating of the cable did not connect to the was a faulted water pipe motor and energize system, but there was no way for the ball case because the president KBR company called in Iraq you know what their solutions were like no and I'm going around and around around stream guys saw me you start killing somebody after what I just covered an hour so that to make it safe. I go nuts I go nuts on this to do. You don't go out to like 20,000 buildings over the place. You have to clear the fault bad I said listen, go drop a ground rod. Take ant meter on there take voltmeter measure fault. So no. Let's go to the next graphic. boys electrician I was involved in this case shelter is 120 volt circuit little lights they found out the ground rod that was driven was a forefoot ground rod and they're all that's not the problem. The ground had nothing the transformer which we'll see when we get was missing. In other words, you have to have That little jumper was missing. So when there sat on the bus bench. He took off his shoes. he got electrocuted. It had nothing to do Jordan. Man electrocuted at tennis courts. feelings about this. This case here. Well, you know, this happened in 1989. I actually When I was looking, we are preparing for today's man electrocuted. And I've got I just froze, I started reading West Jordan. Yeah, West Jordan, Utah. This is where I spent the first you know, as an instructor, and Mike, I'm time, man, people touch traffic signals and they die. But that's in Vegas, and that's town in Utah. You know, this happens everywhere. taken you very long to find all these stats style. It was it was happen. I did real quick. I searched was the case I was involved. I searched electrocution in. I said and then you know, it brings it it, Pick it up, pick a couple of them there. place was but the important thing was this a fault that it was a fence grounding. You this and they the big deal, they want to drive is already grounded just in the dirt. Here's fence. Here's another one firefighters Jody case, might want to watch this DVD or that is on the internet, if you have this link this whole thing on the internet, send it have an argument with anybody ever happened not even gonna fight with you. You do it as I have this DVD recorded this video recorded, a call a person asked me any questions having what, do me a favor. Go to Michael calm, go an hour and 15 minute video, then give me Guys? And always I can't talk code with you. you're so I when I see you're so messed up. around rod one day because I was writing a that it didn't and I did the math. 25 volts I drove a ground rod. And I'm freaking out. thing is gonna blow up the earth. I don't go straight to ground like this. I click on I measured two amps. I'm like, Are you kidding this whole process as you were a student, Wait a minute now. So I start teaching for know up that grounded is not clear fall for and teaching Scott, you and I had conversations And then you saw it because you got to the Mike, you know what some of the cool panel of this conversation that we're having today last 10 years. None of that would have happened more people to drink the Kool Aid. And I think grounding and bonding. Now, of course, I mean, is. Now, that wasn't that way 15 years ago. writings and the internet and all this stuff, passing it on. But guess what, then you know, have 100 people in the class, there has to that think grounding and bonding is they think running about it. I taught it that way. In hard for people to make this change. But the theory, making an experiment slowly reading educated. And now we're at the point that it safe. last comments on the fundamentals, common in all this talk on grounding has been 600 volt systems. And last, which is that is critical. We started that we're not about utility distribution systems just within on you guys? Also just include data in audio Oh, well, we got to be careful here. electrical what we're talking about electrical circuits. about. We're not talking about the audio cables talking about you are bringing in equipment a cheater on that end. At attach to plug you you are going to connect the equipment you if your sound doesn't work I'm not gonna let a way and there's you're going to Miko Comm. there's people who are experts in audio, the solution is not to remove the equipment grounding on audio equipment. That's not the solution. Y'all make a good, you know, article to the you every single thing to do in every installation that you understand theory, and that you understand grounding and bonding, because just knowing that you have in Article 250. That is brilliant. Because what you're saying what's taking place here. And what we're important cover it where you get to connect it to here, you got a transfer switch, you got a four this net, oh, just draw it out, lay it out, fault here, is there a conductor specifically mechanically loaned beads that meets the code to source for the purposes of what turning rods? And when Ron is saying is that you got principles, you can't move forward? I guess understand the principles, or any activity, even you're in the middle of some game like sure what the what this? I don't know, the the game, and then you can start practicing Yeah, I think the another key point is, these I like at a data center. And the guys, you whatever machine isn't working. You don't are no exceptions. The fundamentals are the saying or anything else. And, and I'm always Mike, that as we're getting into it, you know, know where it is in the code. But if you get code, back up to the fundamentals, and that there are no exceptions to the fundamentals. the fundamentals. I think about that, Dennis? Well, in the fundamentals that Scott's talking going back to where it was generated front. know, and this is the way they're trained, and over that everything goes to the earth to go where it was created from the transformer, that complete circuit. So you have to, you own. You can't trust anybody and what they the old way and the old way is not the way I think we got it. I think if anybody has it again and again and again. Take an electrical the information, you really got to understand you got that. That's the end of fundamentals.