One of the most intriguing peoples in the Originally from the Altai Mountains used to belong to the Ashina royal After its disintegration, the Khazars arriving in Europe in the 6th century AD. They quickly established their own independent They slowly advanced into the area of modern day as the supreme rulers of the Eurasian frontier. Within a century, they expanded their territory the north, and the Kazakh steppe in the east. While the Khazars seemingly retained their as many Khazars converted from Tengrism first But did the Khazar Empire then Did the common people really adhere to Judaism? And how credible is the claim that descendants of these Turkic people? Without further ado, let's dive into the remade documentary, brought to you by Khan's Den. This documentary presents historical events based While Khan's Den always strives for accuracy, Viewers are encouraged to engage in further Out of all the successor states of the to the mid-7th century, the Khazar Empire on the frontier between Europe and Asia. Their history can be traced back to the of Khazar identity is strongly linked to The Gokturks, meaning Celestial Turks, empire in history after Bumin of the Turkic Anagui of the Rouran Empire, and founded Bumin died young and his successors expanded striking against the Koreans, Chinese, on several occasions. They even advanced they bordered the Byzantine Empire. eastern successors to the Empire of the Huns, the Gokturks besieged Ponticapeum on the Crimean Over time, however, the Byzantines and Turks in between: the Sasanian Persian Empire. In the year 627, hostilities between the Turks intervened in the conflict. The ruler of the Turks, a certain Tong and Armenia, and sent his general, Boru Shad, However, Tong was heinously murdered by his own back to Central Asia amidst political chaos. By 630, the Eastern Gokturk Empire had fallen had also crumbled due to internal conflict Tong Yabgu, before his demise, had plans Gokturk on the Caucasus into his Turkic But even after his death, the Turkic Indeed, Tong's war against Persia had Because in the subsequent decades, as the in the West started reorganizing themselves. The consolidation in the mid-7th Marked by both continuity with their to new geopolitical realities. Thankfully, we have several contemporary and, in the Khazar state in that very time period at hand. For example, Byzantine historian Theophanes the first mentions the Khazars as a distinct political he notes their involvement in these formal state formation, the Khazars were already did Sebeos, a 7th century Armenian historian. He, in turn, also mentioned the Khazars in the Emperor Heraclius against the Persians and referred to them as the Nation of and describes their swift military movements during the Caucasus campaign. Another Armenian historian, Movsas the Gokturk invasion of the Caucasus. In his History of the Country of Albania, &quot;At the arrival of the all-powerful scourge waves of the sea, crashed against the walls In Partaw, seeing the terrible danger from broad faced, and with long, flowing hair a great terror seized the inhabitants. They were even more horrified when they whose arrows rained down upon them like heavy ravenous wolves that had lost all shame, them on the streets and squares of the city. Their eyes had no mercy, for nor the young men or women. They had no pity, compassion, regrets. And their hearts did not shrink at the sight To the contrary, they suckled Lastly, the Arab chronicler al-Tabari, meanwhile, in the 9th century, but drew on earlier sources. Providing information about the Khazar resistance between the Khazars and the Umayyad Caliphate, As a bulwark against Islamic expansion all of these sources align with the timeframe for Following the disintegration of the internal structure of the early Khazar state The ruling elite maintained the of Gokturk political traditions. However, as the state evolved, a unique dual as a sacred figurehead, while real power was Sometimes the Beg was called Khagan Beg, which This political evolution is hinted at in Arab traveler who visited the Volga region lifestyles of the Oghuz Turks in Central Although writing later, his descriptions reflect earlier developments. Providing a glimpse into the sophisticated The greater king was recruited from the Khazar the ruler was nearly strangled until he Once this reign expired, the ruler Upon the death of a great ruler, travelers dismount from their horses and bow in respect The final resting place of a particularly from public knowledge completely. Similar to the habits of the early rulers of the were killed after Genghis had been laid to rest. Then, hundreds of horsemen rode over the of the grave could no longer be identified. After these horsemen had done the orders of ancient Mongol customs. The Beg had an interesting As he was the Viceroy, he would, upon entering prostrate himself, touching his forehead to Before addressing the Khagan, the Beg would serving as a purifying agent, while he awaited Smoke and fire were thought as The Beg, however, slowly rose to power becoming the actual ruler within Khazaria. While the Khazar Khagans took wives and were guarded by an elite corps known as the The military structure was At the height of their power, they maintained the ability to rapidly expand their forces Further, the empire's reach was extensive, nations and tribes in a region that stretched Sea to the Ukrainian steppes in the 9th century. This vast network of tributaries contributed Military leadership was structured assisted by officers known as Tarkhans, Khazar military discipline was notoriously strict, the Khaganate for returning soldiers, a practice reputation on the battlefield, and perhaps adding The administrative structure of the known as Tuduns, who governed settlements. In some cases, these Tuduns were appointed influence of other powers, such as the While other official titles, such as Jawashighur sources, their specific roles within the the gaps in our knowledge of the intricacies The only other important political literally means administer of the land. Over time, the term Khazar became a polyphonim, indigenous to the greater Caucasus area. The core tribes were Turkic, most tribes, as well as from the Alans. The state included up to 28 Of course, this development occurred due chiefdom to an empire of respectable size. And within this semi nomadic society, there was The 10th-century Muslim geographer were strikingly handsome with reddish the black Khazars were swarthy, verging on This categorization did not regard White and black were common categories social standing of parts of the population. Thus, the white Khazars were of the upper class, The black Khazars constituted of hunters, soldiers, and merchants. Besides, the Khazars were often described complexion, blue eyes, and reddish hair. A similar description can be found the Kyrgyz at the Yenisei River. Social mobility within Khazar state was, Because as the state expanded into Ukraine, hubs from Byzantium to Asia and vice versa. Therefore, the merchants gained not influence within the Khazar Khaganate. The semi-nomadic life, relying on animal society, never went completely away. But the Khazars did slowly show signs such as Itel at the Volga River. The Volga's name among the Turks had been Furthermore, the creation of Kiev, the be attributed to the Khazar Empire. Thus, by the end of the 7th century, the power in Eastern Europe and the Caucasus. Their state, while rooted in Turkic traditions, that would play a crucial role in the The stage was set for the Khazars supreme rulers of the Eurasian frontier. But to keep their power and expand respected by all, you must confront your Who did the Khazars fight against the most? The other Turks! The greatest tragedy of Turkic history among Turkic peoples themselves. The Khazars were no exception. Despite sharing a common heritage, language, neighbors, They found themselves in frequent Their first major adversaries were the and once part of the Onogur Confederation, under the suzerainty of the Gokturk Empire. Theophanes recorded that in 679, the Khazars Batbayan, the eldest son of Khan Kubrat, over the Onogur tribes, but was weakened Thus, Batbayan proved no match for According to Theophanes, the defeated One fled westward under Asparauh, eventually moved north to the middle Volga region. The Khazars then subjugated Nikiforos, another important chronicler and additional information about these campaign. He describes how the Khazars systematically forcing them to abandon their ancestral This victory secured Khazar dominance and established them as the preeminent The Bulgars, who had moved into the middle But as we saw in the last documentary, they too Several core clans of Volga Bulgaria, were directly under Khazar control. But the Bulgars were just the beginning. The Arab historian Al-Baladhuri tells us Pechenegs, another Turkic group pushing dealt with in another previous episode. These Turks had been ejected from After a devastating defeat at the hands of the in search of new pastures for their herds. They found themselves blocked According to Al Baladhuri, the ensuing clashes willing to submit to the other, but with hand and keeping Pecheneg raids at bay. Even more intriguing are the accounts particularly the Gesta Hungarorum. These texts reveal how the Khazars dealt we analyzed a while ago on this channel. Rather than attempting to crush them militarily, They incorporated the Magyars Using them as allies and buffer against However, this alliance was not always smooth. There are several instances of Magyar Khazar After the Magyars had settled in the the Khazars drove them out completely. By 895, the Magyars left the region and Europe, eventually settling in Pannonia. and founding the Kingdom These three peoples, the Bulgars, the Pechenegs, elite, and at the same time, allowed them to By 900 AD, the Khazar Empire had reached its apex Geopolitically, they dominated present day the Don and Volga regions, and eventually In fact, the Oghuz Turks were the fourth group While clashes between the Khazar Empire a certain Oghuz tribe called Kinik had While this tribe is popularly known as the a man named Tukak, had different affiliations. In the Turkish Malikname, written during Alp Arslan, the victor of Manzikert, servant of the ruler of the Khazar Empire. Carrying an iron bow, Tukak participated in Sometime later, when the Khazar state Khazar elite and the Oghuz tribe broke. Then, the Kinik tribe suddenly left Iran, and founded the Seljuk Empire. Named after Tukuk's son, Seljuk, it is in several chronicles at the bottom of the came into conflict with the other Oghuz Turks. Perhaps they attempted a power grab and were But that is a story for another time. To summarize, the Khazar strategy in revealed their political sophistication. Unlike many of their predecessors who employed a combination of force and diplomacy. They would crush those who directly challenged forming strategic alliances with others, like This complex web of conflict and define the political landscape of But even as the Khazars dealt with their dangerous threat was emerging from the south. The armies of Islam were on the march, with their greatest challenge yet. The First Arab Khazar War began in 642 AD and would continue sporadically The Armenian historian Sebeos provides us describing how Arab armies, under Abdar Caliphate, launched their first major offensive The Arabs initially captured Derbent, the western shores of the Caspian Sea. But the Khazars would not yield easily. According to the Arab the Khazars struck back with devastating effect. Their armies, led by the Khazar Khagan, inflicted Balanjar, killing Abd al Rahman and forcing As al-Tabari notes, the Arabs were so attempt another major invasion for decades. That is especially impressive as we take Caliphate would be successful in expanding possible, except for the Caucasus region. While the Islamization of the conquered regions centuries, such a process to the north was The Islamic religion did not spread inside conflict reignited in the early 8th century. The Arab general, Maslamah ibn campaign against the Khazars in 722. While he initially succeeded in capturing then capital Balanjar, the Khazars of strategic retreat and counterattack. The Arab armies Stretched thin and struggling to maintain their conquests in The intensity of these wars is vividly The Armenian historian Lewond, who was also on the Caucasus, describes how the Khazar into Arab territory in 730, reaching as far The initial victory at Ardabil opened the gates The commander of the Turkic forces was al-Tabari as the son of the Khagan. It is possible that his mother was Prispit, However, as it is certain that she led armies Armenia during the Arab Wars, we may assume sources, was herself the actual ruler of Khazaria. In any case, her son, Barjik, The Arabs, striking back with vengeance, the Khazars retreated fully from the region. The Arabs time and time again had tried to its frontier due to Khazar resistance. The Turkic armies, however, were successful Caliphate up to Mosul, near the later Why did the Khazars never return again, though? Would the conquest of these prosperous prestige to the Khazar royal court in Atil? One might assume that they reconsidered between Khazaria and the Arab center of left the southern Caucasus, not just due distance to their home base in Central Asia. Then again, it is striking that the Khazars away other peoples, even deep into Volga own Turkic neighbors a moment of relief. By 750, after more than a century of The Khazars had successfully defended power to effectively resist Arab expansion. More importantly, they had secured in the Caucasus and Eastern Europe. The stage was now set for perhaps the their remarkable conversion to Judaism. Tengrism, the ancient faith of the steppes, was It was the very foundation of their worldview. As the shaman, actually called Kaam among the Tengrism included elements that prohibit of shamanism, because the Kaam was not Instead, it was Tengri who served as both celestial order that governed all existence. In Turkic cosmology, The world was divided of Tengri above, the middle world of and the underworld ruled by Erlik Khan. The Khagan of every single Turkic empire was chosen by heaven to rule with divine mandate, This concept of divine election, the Kut, Sacred trees, mountains, and rivers dotted The ancient Orkan inscriptions speak of the Yersu, protected the Turkic peoples in everyday life. Even the cardinal directions held deep spiritual sacred as the direction of the rising sun. That is why the Gokturks, whose were the most divine of all Turkic rulers. But unlike many other Turkic peoples who retaining elements of their shamanic traditions, Their adoption of Judaism marks one of transformations in all of Eurasian history. The first hints of Jewish influence in the Khazar While the Khazars successfully resisted found themselves at a crossroads. To their south lay the powerful Muslim Empire represented Orthodox Christianity. Both powers actively sought to convert The Khazars, however, chose a third path. According to the Schechter Letter, a in 1912, the conversion of the Khazars Instead of giving exact dates, the letter have become a state religion by that time. For example, after the Khazars converted practiced came to save the Khazars The Alanians were a people who were when the Gokturk Empire was in existence. They were the ones safeguarding the Byzantine ambushes as he transpassed Anatolia to return Furthermore, the letter gives some It states that Jews fleeing persecution Khazars and were assimilated over time. Then, a strong and warlike leader named As he was a distant descendant of Jewish wife Sarah, he converted to Judaism. As a result, more and more The name Sabriel actually refers to in the middle of the 8th century. The Schechter letter claims that Bulan was Armenia, and Persia, possibly referring to Other important documents from regions hints about the conversion date. For example, the &quot;Expositio in Matthaeum Evangelistum&quot;, the Commentary on the Gospel of Matthew. It was written by the Benedictine taught in the Belgian city of Liege. The latest date for the composition of his claim that it must have been written earlier. In it, he confidently states that a people called These people were circumcised and Gog and Magog were often identified with peoples who, in Jewish, Christian, and or form connected to the end of days. While interpretations of where Gog and Magog it is likely that they were supposed to talking about for years on this channel: the Eurasian steppe belt. Thus, with Gazari, Christian of Stavelo located them on the map, and claimed Another reference comes from Eldad ben Mahli ha-Dani, a Jewish merchant and traveler who originated from the southern Arabian Peninsula. In 883, he informed Spanish Jews that He also told them that fragments of of the line of Simeon and half line of They supposedly received tribute from 25 kingdoms, The Schechter letter, the commentary on the Eldad ha-Dani collectively suggest that the It seems reasonable to conclude that of an influx of Jewish migrants. The initial wave of immigration is thought Harun al Rashid, the Caliph of the Abbasid Under his orders, Jews and Christians symbols on their clothing. Abstain from riding horses and endure The Jews leaving the Near East then they were free to roam as they wanted. The Tengris Turkic society was not humiliation of any kind, after all. Consequently, even before the Jewish and people of other faiths were present in In 861, Cyril and Methodius, theologians, visited the Khazar Empire. Later, they mentioned that the ruler of A century after Bulan's reign, Zechariah carry a Turkic name, but an Abrahamic one. Indeed, all following rulers cultivated Examples are Obadiah, Isaac, Aaron, and Benjamin. Under Obadiah, the process of He made sweeping religious reforms by bringing in Jewish scholars from Mesopotamia. And introducing the Talmud and Rabbinic learning. This suggests that the Khazars adopted not just The conversion appears to have been The Khagan, the Beg, and the major the general population likely adhered Tengrism, Islam, and Christianity. This religious transformation had By choosing Judaism, the Khazars maintained Byzantium and the Muslim Caliphate. They could now engage with both powers while preserving their unique identity. As the Arabic chronicler Ibn al-Faqih the star of David, yet he still commanded the However, al-Faqih also made the following And this brings us to the main topic important issue of Khazar history. It is difficult to determine the exact impact of Khazaria, while the king's list, or rather, the Jewish faith of all rulers, a complete Remember, the core ruling dynasty and the elite An Oguric-Turkic dialect was also But over time, Khazaria became a different cultures and ethnicities. The more power and influence the Khazars gained, lands, there are more sources from which we can The 10th century Persian Geography text, maintained their traditional tribal The common people, particularly those nomadic lifestyle and ancient customs. Muhammad ibn Hawqal, an Arab traveler from religions living in Khazaria, with plenty So, therefore, Muslim mosques stood alongside Khazar cities, especially in the capital, Ibn Court of Atil included two Jews, two Muslims, Tengrist, to ensure that every subject could Before we continue with the fatal question Khazar populace and thus conclude with the and Jewish history, let us quickly return The religious choice of the ruling elite Up to this point, the Khazar Empire had served to the south, the Byzantine Empire to the Turkic groups in the Eurasian steppe belt. But while the Khazars fought many wars Turkic kin, their relationship with The Gokturk intervention in the Byzantine of Tong Yabgu, serves as an entry Perhaps the most dramatic example of this deposed Byzantine Emperor Justinian II, sought refuge in Khazar territory. The Khazar Khagan, Buzir, not only granted through a marriage between Justinian and Theodora after converting to Christianity. This alliance was tested, however, when the to bribe Buzir to assassinate Justinian. It was Theodora herself who warned her husband of killing two Khazar officials in the process. Despite this bloody episode, when Justinian Theodora, who was crowned Augustus. This suggests that both powers valued The Byzantine Khazar connection grew even Emperor Leo III orchestrated another significant a Khazar princess named Tzitzak in the year 732. Tzitzak's actual name might have Upon her conversion to Christianity, she took Leo IV would be known to history as Leo the Khazar. The Khazar influence in Byzantium By the mid-9th century, Khazar warriors served protecting the very emperors with whom Their presence in Constantinople itself speaks These Byzantine connections played a crucial power in the eyes of the medieval world. Unlike other steppe peoples who were viewed seen as sophisticated enough to marry into the most prestigious Christian empire in the world. in the world. The decline of the Khazar Empire was gradual process of territorial loss, By the mid 10th century, new powers were rising their dominance of Eastern Europe and the steppes. The first major blow came from an Prince Sviatoslav, breaking with his mother Olga's campaign against the Khazar Empire in 965. The Russian Primary Chronicle tells us fortress of Sarkal on the Don River. Built with Byzantine help decades earlier to marked a decisive shift in the balance of power. The method of Sviatoslav's conquest power dynamics in Eastern Europe. According to contemporary sources, the Rus by turning their own vassals against them. The Vyatich tribes, long time tributaries Ally with Kiev, or face military consequences. Those who resisted were forcibly Most tellingly, Sviatoslav employed the age He recruited Uyghurs and Pecheneg mercenaries to counter the renowned Khazar cavalry. The devastation wrought by After taking Sarkal and sacking Sviatoslav's armies struck at Atal itself. A contemporary witness, whose account a haunting picture of the aftermath. The Rus attacked, and not a grape or a The geographer Al Makdisi, the first Palestinian, notes that from then on, preferring routes through the The loss of trade revenue, which had been Meanwhile, the Oghuz Turks seized their by Ibn al Athir, had conquered large In the year 1016, according to the Armenian Byzantine Russian force, dealt the final The last Khazar Khagan, whose name steppes with his remaining followers. The fall of Attil did not mark the While their empire had crumbled, Various throughout their former territories. Al Muqa'a Dasi describes a region beyond lived, albeit in diminished circumstances, Much later, the Jewish German traveler Petahia of the 1170s, and later traveled as far as Egypt and followed Jewish customs, but maintained distinct His account suggests that these communities Jewish faith and their Turkic heritage. An intriguing episode occurs in us of a ruler named Georges Tzul. His Christian name suggests the religious After his defeat by a joint Rus Byzantine Sennacherib in upper media, so South The Khazars continued to play a role in In 1024, we find them fighting alongside Mstislav By the 1080s, the Rus prince Oleg Svyatoslavich suggesting that the concept of Khazar However, references to the Khazars records by the 12th century. By the 13th century, they survived in the Zemlyaya Jidovskia, the &quot;Land of the Jews&quot;. Their population had been largely the steppes, leaving behind only scattered But where did the people of Khazaria really go? Did they just disappear all of a sudden? Were they really assimilated by new powers? The question of Khazar legacy extends A wealth of evidence suggests that significant trace their ancestry to the Khazar realm. This connection, while controversial, is that deserve careful consideration. Consider first the demographic puzzle that appearance of large Jewish populations in Eastern The Hungarian chronicler, Simon of Keza, writing in Hungary from a country called &quot;Hazariya&quot;. The numbers involved are particularly telling, grew gradually over centuries, Eastern European And in regions that coincidentally territories and trade routes, or were The evidence extends beyond demographics. The Cairo Geniza documents reveal European Jewish commercial practices. Eastern European Jewish merchants operated been the lifelines of the Khazar Empire, differed from their Western counterparts. The 12th century traveler Benjamin of European Jews that he found foreign to both Centuries later, the question of Jews appeared on a larger scale. Taking various arguments into account, it themselves of Jewish descent, like Abraham He proclaimed that the members of his from Turkic converts to Judaism. Firkovich belonged to the Karaites of spoke and still speak Turkic languages. By the 19th century, they began to distinguish envoys to the Russian rulers to plead for Successfully, they were granted the same rights Later, they were considered This left the Karaites untouched by the horrors of like the Krimchak, that were almost wiped out. The Karaite situation was picked up by Ernest which initiated controversial debates among 20th century, on the eve of World War II After the establishment of the State of The most prominent and important post was Arthur Koestler, an Austro-Hungarian author He proposed that after the conversion of the again, westwards into Eastern Europe, with the destruction of the state in the 11th century. Another notable author is Shlomo Sand. He published his book, The Invention proclaimed that Ashkenazi Jews in Europe While Shlomo Sand is a self proclaimed anti Jewish nation in the form of Israel, Arthur In general, the Khazar hypothesis One of the main arguments against this a Khazar ancestry of Ashkenazi Jews. This, however, is not entirely true. There are various genetic studies of Jewish According to a study from 2004, 35 percent paternal line known as haplogroup J. This very haplogroup is particularly the former base of the Khazar Empire. A 2003 study of the Y chromosome pointed Levites, a priestly class who comprise It found that haplogroup R1A1A, which is uncommon is present in over 50 percent of Ashkenazi Leventines. The study thus suggested a founding occurring at a time close to the initial community as a possible explanation. This may indicate a Khazar origin, European communities, settling there, Kevin Allen Brook, who wrote numerous the Khazars, found the following. In a 2022 article, he pinpointed the subclade of a variety found among Bashkirs, and distant relatives of Magyars and Huns and proposes that the former In a 2009 study, four Jewish groups, Ashkenazi, The researchers found genetic Ashkenazi Jews and the Circassians. A group from the Caucasus, again, the very One of the most important contemporary American-Israeli researcher Eran Elhaik. In a 2012 study, he concluded the following, is the clustering of European Jews with the resided on opposite ends of ancient Khazaria, Because Caucasus populations remained relatively there are no records of Caucasus populations, prior to the fall of Khazaria, these findings for European Jews and Caucasus populations. So after nearly an hour of extensive might have more questions on your mind than The same will apply to anyone, be it interested who ever dealt with Khazar history or, really, ANY peoples that There are indeed many open ended questions Most information that we could have Nonetheless, it is possible to The story of the Khazar Empire remarkable, yet underappreciated sagas. From their origins as Turkic nomads from the Altai Mountains, to their emergence as a religious transformation to their lasting challenged our understanding of medieval history. Their political achievements were extraordinary. For three centuries, they Between the Islamic Caliphate and Byzantine complex dynamics of the Eurasian steppes. Their military prowess halted Arab Eastern Europe from Islamic conquest. Their commercial acumen transformed Black Seas into a thriving trade zone. For the Khazars, the world was not black They were as pragmatic as it gets. This mentality was reciprocal As their once glorious Turkic Khaganate was had to reorganize themselves without any help. They had to assert themselves against and federations in the Caucasus. As they won battles and gained new once hostile people into their domain. As they expanded into the Ponto Caspian they also consolidated imperial tradition The last Turkic empire that had had a Four centuries prior, but it was their religious the Khazars apart from their neighbors, The Khazars adoption of Judaism was and military traditions, created This synthesis showed that seemingly rigid be more fluid than anyone had imagined. The evidence we've examined, historical, suggests that the Khazar legacy lived Their influence can be traced in the Eastern Europe, in distinctive cultural the genetic makeup of various populations. Whether the Khazar hypothesis is really that were exterminated during World people, There is no answer to that. However, with all the evidence and in mind, Kahn's Den suggests not to In our contemporary world, this Yet, it is important to engage in, because that history is rarely as simple as we imagine. In an age when we often think of civilizations show us a world where nomads could become sedentary religions, and where cultural identities As we reflect on their remarkable civilization, in the Kiev letter and written in the old It says, &quot;okurum&quot; (or &quot;okudum&quot;). In Khazar Turkic, modern Turkish, and &quot;I will read it&quot; or &quot;I have read it&quot;. In a tragic twist of events, all sources written by the Khazars by themselves. We have no texts from their realm left. It was destroyed nearly entirely. Ibn Hawqal, in an account unrelated to the the precedence of every other race, and of their excellent jervises, their obedient While the Khazars slowly fell out of place their ways completely by the 10th century. Other Turkic peoples were on their way from Almost simultaneous to the fall of the group, which we have mentioned a few Their rise to power initiated what all of Turkic steppe history, ever. One last note before we end this ordeal. Khan's Den is now nearing its fifth birthday. On its way to 100,000 subscribers, is not here and Steppe peoples, but to merely fill the blank in history books for many decades now. Certainly, that can feel illuminating the producer with joy and pride. But filling these gaps is not easy, as the If you liked this documentary and would member right here on YouTube or on patreon.com/KhansDen. On that note, thank you to all our