The topic I want to talk about today How we measure success in this space, I think, But it also says a lot about how our industry, I ask people this question quite often. I ask, &quot;How would you measure success in this space?&quot; Whether we're talking about Bitcoin or open public What does it mean to be successful? When do we know that we are 'winning' When do we know that this technology has arrived? The answer I get really says a lot It's a highly personal answer. The silly answer is &quot;when the price goes to the moon!&quot; That's not a very good measure of success. It's not a good measure of success because But then again, that's why a lot of people A lot of people get involved at first that this is a fantastic get-rich-quick scheme. Then they discover over the next harrowing weeks a fantastic get-poor-quick scheme. [Laughter] As they branch out into obscure altcoins trying to cut their losses, and blow If you got into this space to get rich, you That's not a very good motivation. Fortunately, if you have a strong local community, across the cryptocurrency space is that with a little sparkle in their eye. Yeah, you can tell! No, they're not. They're very excited about As soon as the price turns (which happens most of them disappear. I've watched these ebb and flows since 2012. I remember the first meetup I went to; That other person was Adam B. Levine, which we've now hosted for 386 episodes since 2013. It's the longest running podcast in the space. I met him over steak at the Napa Valley meetup ...which was just Adam and me. [Laughter] I wasn't even in Napa, I was just travelling there. It was a very sad meetup. Fast-forward to about a year later, and that same meetup Then about a year after that, there's only five people. If you follow these trends, you'll notice which attracts a lot of new people. The trick with community is to get people who may about the technology, mostly by conveying If you got into this space in late 2017 to get rich and you're still here, You've weathered the storm. We're on the other side of that mountain now; If you're still here, that means That's great, because now you can start talking about why you are still interested in this For me, the important characteristics of open They have a lot to do with decentralising trust; global, and can create opportunities for people To me, it's about changing the architecture of one of which is money. Possibly a few more related to that, [such as] That is what drives me with this technology. I have this crazy idea that this technology where access to this technology changes people's lives to financial services, to fair and open systems, to kick out intermediaries from every commercial who happen to have a banking license Of course, this is not as much of a problem in the vast majority of the world. To me, those things are important. I measure success a bit differently. When I ask people, &quot;how do you I think the most common answer As in, 'if most of the people around me 'If I can use it to buy something from the That's their measure of success and it's a very common The vision of that is about walking into and you don't have to ask, They obviously do. That's the vision of Alongside Visa, Mastercard, cash, euros, dollars. You could pay in your local shop with one most importantly, it would no longer be &quot;weird.&quot; You would no longer be the weirdo who keeps asking, If you ask a few follow-up questions, another measure of success is if the system that it leads to societal change, that people use it to that we are able to &quot;bank the un-banked&quot; or That this system allows us to introduce more to corporations and more power to individuals. These are more idealistic goals for success. If you stop for a moment and think about it, If the measure of success is mainstream adoption, in this technology doesn't actually happen. &quot;Mainstream adoption&quot; means adoption by people the vast majority of people around you. How many people in here care about privacy enough [Audience raises hands] How many of the people How many people here would never share How many people around you do you know, who think ... And vote based on what they see there? The problem is that The mainstream doesn't share your principles, You're not the mainstream, you're the weirdos That's okay. This isn't a mainstream thing and it's important that we really care about, we can still effect change in I want to talk about what success looks like of disruptive technologies in the past that I think it's important to see that the measure It is not as obvious as it might seem. Let me start by asking a question: how many [Audience raises hands] Alright. all of you actually use the Linux It is used in your phones, vacuum cleaners, It is in the little robots you bought for your kids. It is in every Android phone. But that's not how it started. The Linux operating system was started in 1991, who had a crazy idea. At the time, he was too poor to afford a license that were made by companies like IBM, AT&amp;T, and Sun for thousands of dollars in licensing fees per year. That's how [the business of] operating But this Finnish student had an idea. He thought, 'What if I write my own [operating system]?' At this point, you have to realise how ridiculous The Unix operating system that AT&amp;T created by these giant corporations, is the operating system that This is serious, heavy-duty, commercial Yet this 18-year-old says, &quot;Let me write my own.&quot; Most of the people around him treated him &quot;I'm going to build my own rocket Everyone says, &quot;Yeah? Okay...&quot; And yet he did [it anyway]. Three or four years later, I downloaded an from his university file server, from his and installed it on my own personal computer. It barely worked but I was elated. I, as a student, had a Unix operating system The same thing that they had at He had [organised] a group of programmers and built it. At the time, if you asked people what the completely open, free for anyone to use and as embedded microcontrollers [or as large as] They would say that success would be if all if we put all of those other operating Success would be if nobody paid for On those measures, ironically, Linux succeeded AT&amp;T no longer makes operating systems, IBM even Microsoft really no longer [Laughter] Linux now runs everything from the smallest and use to run your sprinkler system in of the world's top 100 supercomputers. They all run Linux. And yet, if for a moment you thought that mainstream (and knows they're using Linux)... Nobody knows they're using it. [Practically] nobody uses it on their desktop, apart from Who uses Linux on their desktop? You can see the correlation, right? You start with Linux on the desktop and eventually [Laughter] It's a slippery slope. The measure of success is not mainstream adoption. It's not mainstream adoption in the way that you think It is a much more subtle measure of success. What Linux did is gave everyone the choice to run the freedom to run it without even knowing that But it also meant that anyone can build a while using an extremely powerful, millions of different drivers for Eventually, every piece of hardware on the It is open and everybody is innovating around it. It breaks the monopoly of the big companies to the point where they no longer know they're using it. I'll go a bit further back and talk about Most of the people in this room are too young I was there; I not only remember it but I grew up in a I bought my own computer at 10.5 years old. Well, my mum bought me my own computer I started getting on the internet surreptitiously because it was a local university account Details aside, statute of limitations and all that... I got on the internet and it I suddenly realised that if you got computers using open protocols, this incredible flow I started telling everyone around me that the internet If you had asked me then what the measure &quot;Everybody uses it.&quot; Not just that, but we break the back of monopoly the Murdoch empire of broadcasting, and despotic dictatorial regimes To give access to information for people Maybe one day, a farmer in Kenya with a mobile written by a German student about their own president. I could imagine all of these scenarios. What if we changed the measure of success this very powerful, decentralised network By that measure, the internet has failed. A couple billion people only know the internet that gives them carefully filtered information, managed and tweak their dopamine receptors so That's clearly not the cyberpunk vision At the same time, the internet is highly centralised on to which an entire surveillance All of that information is sucked up, processed It sounds like a dystopian nightmare. By that measure of success, the internet has failed. What is it delivering? It's delivering a new set of media moguls to replace I didn't want to switch out Murdoch for Zuckerberg. That doesn't really solve the problem. The problem is: changing the If you look at that, you might think that But it hasn't, because it is not just [made of] Facebook. The internet is also mesh networks, relay and Bitcoin! The internet is also wireless communications citizen journalists and bloggers who challenge [those in power] don't want revealed. We get to choose which internet we use. A lot of the people in this room are choosing to use the If you look at the big picture, If you look more closely, you'll notice that It is still capable of birthing these incredible and unstoppable like Bitcoin. It's still able to do that. So is the internet free, open, decentralised, or is it not? It's both. It depends which part you're talking about. It has achieved all of its goals, even while those principles and simply replaced the old moguls delivered to them, like a drip feed, through the television. Nothing changed for some. People ask me if I think that big corporations start their own cryptocurrencies, and if they could beat open public blockchains like Bitcoin and Ethereum by replacing them with closed private blockchains. That's basically the same question What does it mean to go mainstream? What does it mean to &quot;beat&quot; the Let's say that Facebook releases That sounds terrible. [Laughter] You look at it and ask the five basic questions: Is it decentralised? Is it censorship-resistant? The answer is no, no, no, no, and no! It is closed, bordered / controlled by jurisdiction, because it must be. Therefore, it fulfills none of the criteria It doesn't fulfill any of the principles that we care about. Maybe the Irish government, through Is it open, borderless, neutral, censorship-resistant, It is what we call a central bank digital [Laughter] If you see mainstream adoption as a measure of The free, open, neutral, borderless, decentralised There are a few criminals, some weird QR codes, and tattoos for some reason. If you make a transaction [incorrectly], No I'm sorry -- this is a free, decentralised future. Nothing is reversible. Isn't that what you wanted? What we wanted was FaceCoin, where every time you If you collect five purple stars, you get a All I have to do is sell my soul and all of (somehow, indirectly), and make That didn't seem the like the original cypherpunk plan. If the measure of success is &quot;going mainstream,&quot; is far more interested in using the loyalty reward points that is centralised and controlled. They will not follow your principles. That means, in many cases, the local chippy FaceCoin, AppleCoin, or whatever We don't beat PayPal or Visa, we don't change becoming them but only &quot;weirder.&quot; We have to realise that in countries like Ireland [mostly] work, the need for a decentralised You don't need bitcoin. Ask a Venezuelan if they bitcoin; they need it. Someone from Argentina, Brazil, People who live under despotic governments people who are dealing with currency controls and People who do not have sufficient documentation to to their relatives across borders They need something that is free, open, borderless, They need that for smart contracts, privacy, You can buy a fish and chips with the euro. You don't need to use bitcoin to do that. If mainstream adoption means adapting by diluting That is not a measure of success, The measure of success to me is keeping the principles and censorship-resistant -- while becoming available to as many people who need it around the world. That's my measure of success. That measure of success is very different As you may have noticed, over the last have shown up in the cryptocurrency space. They may talk the talk, but they don't want to change They don't want to break the monopolies, crush or give economic inclusion to They simply want to replace the old layer They think, 'The architecture is fine if I'm on top.' They do not share your measure of success, perhaps. What I'm reaching at: we have to understand Those systems will appear faster and cheaper. Another (very pernicious) measure of success you How many people have heard or seen that term [Audience raises hands] How many people have The Dominance Index is a percentage of the total market Here's why this is not a good metric. Here's why we shouldn't look at that metric Market capitalisation tells you I can guarantee you that there will be cryptocurrencies It is very easy to do that, You can make something that is cheap, fast, Then you can pump money into it FaceCoin will be &quot;bigger&quot; than bitcoin. Hell, Ripple may be &quot;bigger&quot; than bitcoin sometime soon. [Laughter] What do the banks have that we don't? Ultimately this is about changing the architecture What do the banks have that we don't? Money! What's the worst way to measure Who has the biggest amount of money. Well, we've already lost that game They print it from nothing and Their entire industry is rent-seeking. What they don't have is creativity, and a plan for how to get the fuck out They don't have any of those things, If you wanted to really screw with a nascent, disruptive than to persuade them that the measure &quot;We will measure this new, disruptive industry Being the &quot;biggest&quot; cryptocurrency is worthless, If you sacrifice liberty, decentralisation, all you've done is recreated the status-quo To me, that is a measure of failure. We are not going to be the &quot;biggest.&quot; What I hope... Especially because of how difficult it is to because everyone is trying to change it right now What I hope isn't that we are the biggest, but the most If that means we're not going to If you want to win, if you care about the principles, and you really want to see this technology succeed, the most important thing you have to [do] is to have a clear perspective on what the measure of success is. The measure of success is liberty.