[SFX: waves] I had this hotel room for a week. On On the seventh day I rested; and on the seventh day I tried to write a letter to my secretary to tell her how I wanted and I couldn't finish a sentence! It was gone; the muse was gone. I'd say &quot;Now what was I going to say?&quot; It was flowing for six days and then it stopped and so I think it's an inspiration that Well, I understand you've been considering all kinds of numbers under the sun and probably the greatest kind of numbers, because it includes everything, is the surreal numbers. The name actually came to me in the middle of the night; I have no idea... I have a vague recollection that I saw, at one point, a French paper that talked about I don't pronounce it well, but sort of sur- ordinal numbers I've never been able to track down that before or after I thought of the name a great name after you understand John Conway invented the concept, &quot;All numbers great and small&quot; Not only big and small, So people know what the real numbers are, there are infinitely many surreal numbers [off-camera] I thought the numbers between -Yes, that's what almost everybody So I learned about it... I happened to be visiting Calgary in John Conway was up there, and we had lunch together and he had recently discovered this concept, which we're going he wrote out on a napkin all the rules of... a definition of surreal numbers. had lots of other stuff to do, but I kept The basic idea: you have a new way to describe all numbers: you build up all numbers starting from nothing, and representation of 0. But then you can use 0 to describe And you can use 0 and 1 to make two other numbers, one of which is 2 and one of which is 1/2. And you can It's something like the creation of universe of numbers. But the numbers that you get are always... the denominator is always 2 or 4 or 8 or 16 or something... You don't get everything... you'll part of this process, but you keep on infinity. Then a big bang occurs and all The next day after that then you create You also have 1 over infinity which is but it's less than any positive real surreal, because there's a number like This is between pi and And also we keep on going and keep on creating, 1/2 of infinity, and we get square root of infinity, All these numbers that we get So it goes way beyond any kind of [off-camera] These sound like tiny slivers that we're dropping into gaps that we didn't even know were there. -We got the tiny slivers and we also have which is a gigantic thing, larger than we've ever... people ever thought of before. So great and small&quot; One night in the why don't I call them surreal numbers?&quot; But the I said &quot;Wait a minute, this is so cool, I think maybe I ought to that would teach them what surreal that shows how mathematical research is laws and create gigantic universes And the process of discovering is taught in schools. You just are taught the facts, developing these facts. I woke my wife up. We were on sabbatical Well maybe I didn't wake her up till the the middle of night and I couldn't go to a book like this ought to be written.&quot; that I'd promise to write, and I'm still But I told my wife, you know Jill, I decided I have to write another She said, well you know that's actually ...time in your life when you can do worked it out that a few weeks later downtown Oslo and spend a week writing me a couple times that week, because we have an affair in a hotel room! So that so marvelously, it was probably the I started out every morning having a big My hotel was very near where Ibsen used vibes at breakfast. There were a group of 50 American were saying, because I had decided to between two characters: Alice and Bill. Might as well show you the book. and Bill here. [reading] How two ex-students turned on to pure mathematics and found total happiness If you look on the web you find out that reader comments: there are those who are looking for are rating it at five, and then there are and some cool sex scenes and things like they're saying it's the stupidest thing and &quot;Why would anybody waste his time?&quot; as to what you like Oh by the way, A is Alice and B is is said by Conway and I went and try to make sure that I could quote him. Conway says &quot;Rubbish. Wait until Alice says &quot;What was that? Did you hear something? It sounded like thunder.&quot; Bill says &quot;I'm afraid we'll be getting into the monsoon season pretty soon.&quot; [off-camera] Is that the only line from Conway? or is he here multiple times? has in here. In the book, he's the creator and he's not only J.H. Conway, but he's J. H. W. H. Conway, which is an Hebrew name for God. And the characters stone tablet and also some markings on consists of two parts and you indicate it on the left. To the left of the and on the right, er... some set of numbers and on the right you create more numbers. So you start out and if you put 0 on the left, you get a number which called get a number which is called minus 1. these markings on it, but they have to these markings to do. Even though I have the fact that I do refer to nature that I was watching everything in the Not only was I listening to what these seeing the colors..., the leaves There was more, too, because every the theory myself. Conway had told me the thing and I saved the napkin on which he somehow, in the next month, so then I had to try to remember how did he had told me about during the lunch? And I but every day I would work on it and the characters in my story would make eventually, you know, I got further develop the theory. [off-camera] Had Conway not published it himself and he just...? -No, he had the report: &quot;All numbers great and small&quot; was his report. Then he was writing this book on numbers and games that came out a few years later. brand new [off-camera] If you are so much pleasure from this -Oh no, it's too scary. It's not sustainable! [laughing] I think you... These are moments that think also there was... it wasn't were coming to me as if they were being at night, I'd turn out the light the next several sentences would flow on the light, I would write down those sentences, had time to write the first letter of turn out the light, go to sleep. The next morning and continue. But if I had been doing long ago! So the characters discovered Hebrew writing that explains two rules, and The first rule is: every number created numbers and furthermore, there's a left set Nothing on the left is greater than or That's the first rule. This makes a new describes what does it mean to be greater So this is the number that we call 0, on the right. Here we put 0 on the left and nothing on call 1, but on the stone that Alice and Bill discover, vertical line. And if we put 0 on then we get something that on the stone sort of Day Zero is when we got the 1, we'll call it Day One. now we can have a set of numbers, so we on the right, for example. And this is Or we could put 0 on the left and 1 on this is the number that turns out... there was a classical definition of real Dedekind cuts: you have a set of of rational numbers on the right. That gives real numbers. keep on going and allowing, besides surreal numbers. After i get to a 0 and 1... (let me put a comma here) and you get all of these here, but nothing on the right, this is infinity plus 1? And that turns These rules might have been invented for 100 years had learned about this in this is the way numbers are. Then is actually part of the real universe, that these are basic. And people numbers as a special subset of us to think that the universe obeys the People used to think that the real people know that space bends. mind-boggling as anything in mathematics more and more converts come along because they've advanced ...which is a subtle point... So, I'd lost a napkin but it turned out that the rule that six days was not his rule actually, but Here, for example, is Chinese translation. death, [pauses] and you know, I don't quite know how many