- Do you talk to dead people? - Yes. - [Mel] Tap into your intuition - The other side wants to be heard. - Plus, find out who reached Woo! Today on Mel. I'm Mel Robbins, and I'm a life coach who's helped millions of people It's about small steps, I believe in you. - [Audience] Five, four-- - [Mel] And together. - [Audience] Three, two, one. - Yes! We got this. (audience cheering) Hi everyone! Thank you, thank you, Thank you for being here. Holy cow, do we have one because today's show is There are messages that and you're tuning them out. Today, we're gonna teach you how to tune into your intuition. My guest Kim Russo is an and an author, and she's tap into their intuition, and help people find their soul's purpose. - As a psychic medium, I help people tune into their own innate intuition. I also help people bridge the gap between the physical and the other side, where who have crossed over. When I'm reading someone, I read and translate energy into words. And a lot of the times I as if it were my own thought. I will see my information as if I'm actually watching a movie. I can actually even feel my information as just a knowing. Everyone was born with intuition, and I teach people to quiet their mind, and listen to the inner voice that is always trying to I feel it's my mission to help people tap into their intuition, because I've seen what We were meant to access this information to help guide us through life. (audience applauds) - All right, so Kim, I have can you explain what it is that you do? What is a intuitive psychic medium? - Okay, so an intuitive psychic medium is someone who can read energy that cannot be seen with the naked eye. So, I can read energy of a person, a living person, Everything has an energetic field, and it has a vibration that actually has a language connected to it. And I am fluent in that language. - What? So now of course I'm like, oh Before we go there, I wanna How do you define intuition? - Intuition is an inner knowing, an inner wisdom that transcends logic. It has no basis in logic. It's when you know something, but you have no reason to know it. It just sort of drops into like an outside thought that's coming from another place. But it really is coming from within you. - So when did you start to realize I'm reading energy, I'm seeing signs? I mean, do you talk to dead people? - Yes. - [Mel] You do, can you see them? - Yes. - You can see them? - Yes, I can. - [Mel] Are there any in here? - Oh well, well each person here came with at least five deceased people, whether or not you know And when they know a they especially tag along, because they wanna be heard. The other side wants to be heard. - How does the other - Well, it's not a physical language, although sometimes audibly you can hear what seems to be your own voice. So if you have a thought, or did I turn off the stove? Very often, it seems but it can be a deceased loved one, or perhaps a spirit guide, that's also in the same realm, giving you the idea to make sure you check to see So it comes as an external energy that just drops into our conscious mind. A lot of the times, we think - Right. - Sometimes they are, and and I do wanna teach people - Oh my gosh, I'm so excited 'cause I have no idea what's about to happen on this show today. - I know, I know, and when I was a child at the age of five. - [Mel] This started when you were five? - Five. - Tell me about that. - I was crawling under the and curious as I am, still am, there was a safety pin on the floor, and I was wondering what would happen if I plugged this in to And what happened was it My whole right arm was charred, was black, and there was no scars. There still, to this day, are no scars. But I do believe back then, something opened up in my energy field that gave me a direct - [Mel] Wow! - Yeah. - And so how did you to talk about this? - I spoke about it when I was a child. My family did believe and that made all the difference. I had a big sister who and she was my protector. That helped me. There were dead people every night, going to sleep. - What I find fascinating is it doesn't sound like you were scared. - Oh I was petrified. - [Mel] Oh you were? - Petrified. I slept with the covers They would stare me And they wouldn't move their lips. They wouldn't give me any hint of acknowledgement, of acceptance. So as a child, you look by maybe a nod, a smile. There was nothing. They were stoic, and I you did something wrong, Why aren't they smiling? I now know they were depressed, my help for them to go - So how did you learn to people on the other side? - At this point, I went and my dating years just I didn't see them anymore. My youngest, my oldest son was colic, and I was up all through the night, and I never saw a dead person. And I couldn't understand why, After my third son was born, it's as if someone Not only was I now seeing them, they had a voice. They came back with a vengeance. Not to hurt me, but to be their messenger. - Wow. What are the life lessons that you've learned from them? - Well, they very often tell me that life is nothing but and that we really need to not sweat the small stuff as we know it. (audience applauds) I agree. Because in the bigger picture, there is so much more to life than just having stress, being depressed, paying the bills, and worrying. And everything about how to let go of the fear, and the worry. That's not who we are. It's not why we're here. - So if there are five or six people from the the other side that every one of us brought here. - At least. - At least? Are there people sitting here with more? - This audience is very crowded. Probably exceeds the limit of a violation. A fire violation. - Yeah yeah. - So are these souls people that are waiting to pass Are they here to protect us? Why are they hanging around? - Well, you have souls that to you yet, if you're hoping to procreate, they will hover around you if they're waiting to come into your life. You will have souls that You'll have souls of your loved ones who did already cross over and they loved you back. You'll have souls of ancestors that maybe you were given their name, and they find it a real special treat to have you living in Godparents love to hang out around you. They take their oath of being a godparent much more serious when they get to the other side. So they help guide us. - So when people come to what do they typically come to - People have come to me every age, every occupation with any type of insight whether it be a blockage to or the love of their life, or they want some health information, or they wanna know how so they would like to can become more intuitive to or to tap into this unseen force of energy that very often helps our lives become and happy, and just it It keeps us living our best life. - Well you just said up And so that's what I wanna do next. I wanna up the ante. What messages are you getting from the other side about your happiness? Would you know what they are, We're gonna watch her read our audience when we come back. (upbeat music) Coming up. - Would you mind if I - I'm getting a hot flash. (audience laughs) Woo! I mean, this is blowing my mind. - So what's a time when you and you regretted it? - I shouldn't go out, and then I still do it and I'm like oh, the hangover's too bad. I should never do it again. - Any time I deter from it, yeah. I'm always proving myself wrong. - When you ignore it, - I feel like 75% of the time I trust it, and when I don't, it's like you should've just listened to me. - Well that was people on telling us whether or not I'm back with Kim Russo, author of &quot;The Happy Medium: Lessons and she's the host of &quot;Celebrity So Kim, before I turn you I have never done this before. - [Kim] Really? - I don't know what to expect. - Okay. - You have full rein, control room, backstage, people hiding in the hallway. Everybody here, everybody and I wanna give you an opportunity to read whatever you want to read. Whatever you're called forward to. - Okay, so there's a few None of this is up to me, I am just the faithful servant. I understand the language, and I get pulled where they tell me. And anybody, if I come up to you, any name I give you is of identifying that I am and the name can be of a living person, as well as a deceased, even Be aware, are we ready? - Yes. - Okay, I'm being drawn. So there's two, two areas. This area, and this area. I think I'm going to start here first. If I do give you the I will ask you to stand, if that's okay. So you know I'm here, Just so you know. I'm starting with you. I typically, would you mind standing? - Sure. I typically will encourage to stand as well. Who did you come with? Two people? Oh the whole row. (audience laughs) The first name that I'm picking up, and you can filter it however you see fit. I don't need the feedback, By the way, do you have a baby boy yet? - Not yet. - [Kim] Not yet, do you - I don't know if it's a boy, but there's a baby in there though. - There's a soul of a Now I will say this. If you don't have a boy this time, look for the boy very quickly Because they don't start to hover until, not more than a year, they'll hover, and they want to come in, but there's a big influence of There's initial A around you, very strong. Do you wanna validate that? I saw your eyes. - I lost two babies. - [Kim] Okay, did you - Mhmm. - I don't feel this is the same name, but I feel it will be so does that make sense? - Yes. - That's what they're telling me, and I'm hearing it as they're They're already calling you mommy. Now, I do wanna tell you were not the same souls. One was a boy, one was a girl. Looks like the girl is That's what I am supposed to tell you. I also need to talk Did you just get this? - No, but-- - There's a dentist reference around you. - [Woman] Interesting. - Does that make, you wanna validate it? - I have dental problems, and I'm thinking about fixing and it's all my stress goes right here. - Yeah, I would encourage you and I keep hearing mommy, to let you know not to let that go. You need a mouth guard in (audience laughs) Something as simple as a mouth Okay, I promise you that. The other thing I wanna talk the heels of my feet hurt. Now, it's not because you're pregnant. I feel like there's just a lot of blood accumulates at your heel. Have you had heel spurs, - No, but I walk heavy like (audience laughs) You can always hear me. - But just keep, I would Keep that blood flowing under the foot. I need to tell you that. You are pretty good with your intuition. They tell me though if you, you're more fear based than anything. It's I hope this works out. It always does work out for you. You can look back, you know what I mean. It always works out for you, and you have a very nice husband. - I do, I have the best husband. - I have to give you that. I get his energy as like, amazing. He'll do anything for you. - That's true. - That's very true. - I mean, this is blowing my mind. It's amazing. We have to take a break. When we come back, I have a question. Does your soul have a purpose? Are there signs that you're We are tapping into intuition (audience applauds) Up next! - Did you lose a ring? (audience laughs) - What? Holy (bleep), I'm getting a hot flash. (audience applauds) Wow, what an amazing (audience cheering) Welcome back, I'm Mel Robbins. I'm here with Kim Russo, author of &quot;Your Soul Purpose: Learn How Kim, what is the light within? - Well, for us humans, it is the soul, but it's how to access the It's all though the where we feel love and compassion. It's where we get our best intuition. You've heard the phrase, It will never guide So, the light is the that we all have. A higher wisdom, divine order, nothing happens by chance. The universe in all its that we would never have to comprehend the vast ways in which the universe wants to help us. - You can see almost this and I would love to have you do whatever you're called to do again. - Okay, would you mind if - Yes! I would love that! (audience applauds) - Once I opened myself up in the other segment, now I'm open, and I can't help but see who is very much a decorated pilot. - A decorated pilot? - He was a pilot, a Navy pilot. Okay, it's okay, he knows you. Do you know who Ken is? - Oh my god. That's my father-in-law. - Was he a pilot? - No, not that I know of. - [Kim] Was he in the military? - No. - He says yes. - [Mel] Really? - Make a phone call. - I'm calling him right, my husband in the control room right now. - Well anyway, he's standing in a uniform, so that's the only reason I know that, and I saw my airplane symbol. - [Mel] Wow. - He wants to say hi, and I do feel there's another man - Oh, yeah. - That's what he showed me. He wants me to talk about that. He said he's very, he's - Yeah. - Oh, you know this. - I do. - He said-- - Well she's been a widow for 12 years. - No, he's familiar with this man, meaning he either knew him in life, or he sent him on in to help her out. - Oh. He's familiar with this And he said, &quot;They're Whatever that means. (audience laughs) - What? My father-in-law was in the Air Force. Holy (bleep), they're on (audience laughs) I've never even seen a - They love, they remember They love when they served. We're all supposed to serve to some capacity to another in our lives. - What else is he telling me? - Okay, so. He wants me to talk, you have a son? - [Mel] Yes. - [Kim] This boy. - I'm getting a hot flash. (audience laughs) And my neck rash, holy (bleep) okay. Woo! - I used to get neck rashes, I can relate. I can't tell you how intuitive this child, old soul, intuition, knows came to change a lot of He's really, his biggest fan from the other Biggest, biggest fan. There's one brother, or son. He has another son, besides your husband? - Yeah. - There's one brother that's the outcast, he's talking about. And we have to sort of allow for him, that's what's being said. You don't have to elaborate, you wouldn't know he's part Like he's distant. - Yep. - Yes. - And he says, let time heal that. It will, it will change. - Okay. - In a weird kinda way. He wants that to be known because that bothers some family members. It's a bone of contention, - Yes. - So he said I know all One of your, I don't know how, - The number you're holding, two. (audience laughs) - One will, if this didn't happen already will definitely switch - Okay. - Schools, careers, major, and it's gonna be complete opposite of what they've been looking at. - Hm, okay. - And that's part of their and letting them know, this is the path they were - Great. - Did you lose a ring, a ring? Is there a ring that you - Like 11, or how long Like 20 years ago, my actual wedding ring fell off the side table in our bedroom, and we live in this super old farmhouse, you know like you can hear a And it bounced down and rolled and fell through the crack on the floor, and it's kind of buried between the second floor - So do you feel like when - No. - [Kim] You never thought about it again? - I've thought about it. - I don't know what this means, but you will let me know in the future. That ring, is in a very strange way, going to come back to you. Whether the pipe is going to break, and we have to break - I wonder if it's my because Ken's standing here. 'Cause she lost this for their major anniversary. - Is it gone forever? Does she think it's gone forever? 'Cause I'm going to just leave it to, it's going to reappear - Okay. - So let's leave it either or both of you, how 'bout that? - Wow, I'm completely freaked out. Wow, what an amazing - Well, he was wanting to be heard, so I couldn't ignore this man. He's very dynamic. - Oh yes, yes, we miss him dearly. - Oh, very nice man. And he is decorated, so. - [Mel] Huh. - I saw a few medals on his-- - I'm embarrassed that, I I knew about his big I had no idea about the Air Force. - That's probably why he showed you that. So that you could see it was - Yes, well he maybe is my grandfather on Veteran's Day instead of him, I don't know. I better dig it up. - You might change that now. - Yes, exactly, include them both. Up next, how do you access How do you tap into your soul's purpose? You're gonna learn how when we come back. (pleasant music) I'm back with Kim Russo, author of &quot;Your Soul Purpose: Learn How and Kim is going to do another reading. - Yes! - Are you ready? - You guys ready? (audience applauding) All right. This is going to be intense. May I take you up to the stage? Would you mind? Come on down guys. You all three came together? - Yeah. - This is going to be one for the books. - Oh wow. - It's what I feel. So, have a seat. I wanna be able to see each one of you. - Yeah, we're gonna get you a seat, and can you just tell us your names? - Missy. - Tamara. - Hildy. - So are you Melissa? - The other side likes to - Okay. - I have to talk about mother, because that's who was and it had to be right behind her, because that's where the energy was. There's another sister missing, or another sibling missing? - We have a brother. - Okay, missing from this area right here, from somehow your mom - Yep. - Okay. He also feels distant, so does - No. We're just closer. - Okay, it could be an Is he the one that went through Your mother's talking about the divorce or the breakup in the family. And it's connected to a huge heartbreak, and it happened already. - Our brother had a big heartbreak with a girlfriend years ago. - [Kim] Mhmm. - But she would've been happy about that. (sisters laughing) - Guess what? Your mother wants to talk about that. - [Missy] Oh wow. - A lot of what happened with that, that relationship has shaped And this, you have to tell him this, because he holds himself And he keeps, there's, he keeps getting stuck. Do I think he has a bad life? No, but I think that there's a lot from that relationship that is hindering him now in his life. She wants that to be known to him. Which one of you did before she passed? - That's her. - That has to be released from your soul. 'Cause she just said, &quot;I couldn't wait &quot;for you to get there, &quot;nor did I want you to be there.&quot; - I know that. - [Kim] Are you the baby? - I'm the baby. - She just said, she will hold that vision forever. The goodbyes and the hellos that you still say to your mother are very much heard by her. She's talking about a A J-sounding female She's either with that person, or she's referencing that person. - Gina, that's my brother's wife. - Now, it is. Let me tell you what she said. She points to a parent of Gina, or someone around Gina, and that's who's coming in for Gina's family where substance abuse problem in that You don't have to say what it is, but this parental energy, they're working on it. Please tell Gina this. Very often you'll be the messenger. Now, are you guys, I mean, you look like you're from Ireland. I don't wanna guess, but I keep seeing England or Ireland, or going there. So who's planning a trip? - I went to Ireland with my dad. My dream was always to go to Ireland, and when my mom passed away, my daughter went abroad to study nursing, and we had the opportunity to go, and his trip was shortened and we only got a few days there and had to fly home early, and I keep saying, are we And I don't know if we will. With him, maybe not with him, but it was beautiful, and I didn't get to see all the country. - You're making it back. And is your daughter Katie, - That's my mom's mom. - That's my mom's mom, - Okay. - She's Irish. - That name is like, screaming at me. Katherine, Katherine, Katherine. And you know how the - That's her name. - Okay. That's how it's coming so yeah this is all good. Big changes coming for you too, mom said. Like even taking on the role of the mom. That's what she told me. In a back door kinda way, you're always there for the advice, but you'll be taking a different role now. No more giving advice. She said it's time you - I'm gonna remember that. I'm gonna remember that. - I'm gonna remember that too, 'cause I'm her daughter. - [Kim] But does that make sense? - [Tamara] Yes. - You don't need to be - For, yeah. That's totally true. - She said take the S off your chest. (audience laughs) Is that okay for now? - That's okay for now. - [Kim] You need that. - It's totally true. (audience applauds) - Wow, well up next, are you constantly looking for signs to make a decision? Wishing a loved one who When we come back, how to (audience applauds) Welcome back, we're back with Kim Russo, talking about how Kim, how do you even or a loved one from the other side is trying to give you a message? - The easiest way for to come to someone is - [Mel] Oh! - Because the conscious It's always looking to sabotage, and when we are put to they can actually visit us in our dreams, and they can give us, we can have a visit, and you'll never forget that visit. It won't just be a dream. Also, they send you so many signs. They can send you their favorite number, they can have you look up at the clock on their birthday, like 7:11. My dad always does that for me. His birthday was 7/11, and I and then I know he's with me. My dad also sends me coins, dimes. Dimes, I said Dad, inflation! Where's the hundreds? They're all around us, they have not abandoned us. They're with us always, enough to get involved as much as they can to help us in our lives. - Well, let's see who else's are trying to send a message, to somebody either in the audience, the control room, anywhere. - Right, right. So, what happens is I but now I'm not sure but during the break, I kept getting a man that died by falling to his death. And he feels like he just had I feel like he did live but then they had to, Could this be for someone or is it someone here? Is it here? Yeah? - [Woman] Yeah, I just lost someone. - Okay. May I give you this? - Sure. Would you mind standing? - Sure. - Would you say that this it sounds like this? - Actually yes. - [Kim] Would you mind speaking? - We just lost him in - He fell to his passing? He lived a little bit? - In the hospital, yes. - Had internal injuries. - It looks to me, from was an infection started I'm not sure if they told you that. I just like to tell you what they show me. - There was some swelling that amplified, they couldn't control, and it got out of hand. - Is this an older male to you? - Yes. - [Kim] 'Cause that's what he looks like. - Yeah. - He didn't tell me the relationship. He feels a little bit removed. Would this be your father-in-law? - You're so close, oh my gosh. So my best friend's father, who was like a surrogate father to me. - Didn't feel like your dad. It felt like once removed. - Exactly, oh my gosh. - That's how they give to tell me exactly what happened, and he's so happy to be - [Woman] Holy cow. - And he almost didn't. That's what he said. He said, &quot;I've been waiting!&quot; And it's of course your, you knew him, but you were deliver the message back to the family? - [Woman] Oh yeah. - Okay, there's this big event coming up. He said, &quot;I will be there.&quot; It's either a birthday, a he's just showing me celebration. Do you know what that might - I'm not sure yet. - Family's growing. - You're a little bit shaking. - You're nervous. - I understand. He keeps thanking you for what you did. You made phone calls, you got things, or you were able to read a document that somebody else couldn't do. - I did the readings at - Oh, that's what he No one wanted to do it, - Was able to do it, and... - [Kim] 'Cause he said read, - [Woman] Gosh, yes, yes, oh my gosh. - Kind word, kind words, he was there. He says, &quot;I didn't miss any of it.&quot; (audience laughs) Now, there's one thing and that is the actual burial. He could care less. He wasn't about, you know, maybe even cremation. Just put me in a box, and get, I'm not in that body. I didn't care. I didn't want them to - That's 100% spot on. He was cremated, and it was a joke about how why waste the money? - He did not want them to - That's exactly right. - Don't do, spend it on something else. He's so happy about that. - Oh my gosh. - They followed, 'cause they tried to do more than what he needed. And he's a simple man, and he's still, he says he lived a wonderful life. He has no regrets. He said he would've fallen I would've fallen whether This was my time to go. - That's gonna mean so much to the family. - Yeah, but the guilt. He said this is, this was my time. I would've fallen off the bed, I would've fallen in the shower. It was my time, and this is the And it was quick. He said, I didn't go right away. I needed people to say goodbye to me. That make sense? - Yes. - He allowed them to say their goodbyes. He did that, even in his passing. He was thoughtful enough not to go suddenly, but to have to maybe through the night, or a couple days. - Yeah. - He can't thank you enough. And he does consider you a daughter. (audience applauds) Wow, thank you, thank you. Thank you, I appreciate that. - Wow, we'll be right back. (audience cheering) I'm back with Kim Russo, author of &quot;The Happy Medium: Life So, I mean I'm just so blown away by the gift that you have. - Thank you. - And that you give to other people. And you said at the very beginning that we all have this Can you please tell us, what can you do to strengthen it, to tap into it? - Absolutely. Well, not everybody has to or get electrocuted. This is our birthright. We were just like animals in the wild, we were given this manual, with our soul. People think we weren't, but we were, and what you need to and there are ways you is I do recommend meditating. Now that doesn't mean you and sit in a yogi position to do this. It's more about putting getting off of the social media sites, and sit with yourself. When was the last time anyone did that? Crystals can enhance your abilities. Yoga, Kundalini yoga is a big one. It really just helps raise the energy from the bottom of your and once it hits your heart and the heart opens, this is the key to having a heightened intuition. When your heart energy center opens up, having compassion, have a good cry, watch a sad movie. We have to get the heart energy going. - So it's interesting, about trusting your gut. - And because I'm so sciency, you know I like the science of the fact that the brain and the gut are connected by neurotransmitters da da da da da. - [Kim] Yes, they are. - But you're talking that so many of us shut down, which is the heart, for intuition. - Absolutely. The gut is definitely no doubt about it. It's your survival mode. And there is a brain in the gut, but there's a bigger brain in the heart, because the heart can and pick up energy, much But I would say to trust them both, because both of them where it can be Whether to do something, - Well, you are a gift. Thank you for being with us. - Thank you. - Wow, thank you for telling - Thank you. - And you know, here's what that everybody in this audience, control room, and you at home, are saying holy cow. - This was a sign that I - [Kim] Yes! - So thank you, Kim, for being here. - Thank you. - We'll be right back. (audience cheering) Welcome back, I'm Mel Robbins. Wow! Today's show was an It was all about your sixth sense, and the power of intuition. We learned how to tap into and I experienced firsthand that your loved ones, who have passed on, are with you, and they're Your intuition can speak Maybe it's a hunch, a physical sensation, goosebumps, numbers, I don't know how your but one thing I know for sure is that listening to your intuition, that is a skill that you need to build. The first step to quieting out the noise so you can actually hear your heart opening, and the second step is acting on it. Trusting it, having faith, and of course, that's the highest use of the five second rule. The moment your intuition the moment that somebody that sends you a message, don't question it, because you have five seconds to move before it disappears. I believe the show today is a sign that there's something that you've been avoiding. Oh my god, I'm getting really emotional because my father-in-law showed up. And I know what he's trying to tell me (audience applauds) Now I tell you every day and your ability to change your life, but you need to believe it too. So start tuning in, and I'll see you tomorrow. (audience cheering) (dramatic music)