Minecraft has hundreds of items, but there So, subscribe and let's look at the items Minecraft's twelve year history. Number One but another fruit that was going to be added However you couldn't eat them, because this This is NOT a joke. It was gonna be called &quot;The Monkey Motivator&quot; like a banana on a stick.&quot; Mojang really were going to add a banana pickaxe Not sure you're gonna be mining many diamonds Number Two you might think it would be fun to have some Skis were added to Minecraft back in 2012, Dinnerbone added the texture to the game files in the next update. The skis were eventually removed and Mojang Number Three toothpaste is a fun science experiment. Mojang even removed it from the Education They accidentally left a particle texture It might've looked like this in-game, but even finish making it. Number Four used to be VR in Minecraft. An April Fools' update added &quot;Reality Vision&quot; added a huge hologram right in front of your It's a shame they cancelled the HoloLens, The tech from the future doesn't stop there! We also had a &quot;Smarter Watch&quot; that showed That's better than the clock that stayed in Number Five it wasn't fun. You were originally gonna be able to buy &quot;diamond This was worth a thousand emeralds when bought The magic dust would upgrade a weapon's power I think it sounds quite fun, but that price Number Six in 2019 had a secret item added to the game. This is &quot;crystallized honey&quot;. We don't know exactly what it was for but a food item. All of the uses got Any references to crystallized honey were item didn't even last as long as some real Number Seven was too funny to leave out. The first ever publicly released version of left in the files. These three are clearly icons for multiplayer, just this trashcan with giant eyes. Maybe it was for deleting worlds? Either way, I'm terrified. Number Eight Rubies in Minecraft have taken many forms. The game was even called &quot;RubyDung&quot; at one These two versions of rubies were used in minute. Rubies reappeared seven years later in Minecraft 40 rubies are a stack, but it takes a hundred 2000 rubies will set you back $80, but luckily Number Nine years, but these paintings never made it into These four paintings were found in the files them look like this. There's earth, fire, water and wind, but you You also can't get the wither painting in wither to build. Number Ten 2009, Mojang added in a few items from their One of these was the quiver, which held arrows. You might've been able to have more than 64 just to hold the arrows like normal items. Mojang removed the quiver, and tried to add Minecraft Dungeons now has a quiver, so at Number Eleven was another armour set that got removed. Studded armour was in the game for a few months. It was planned to be a mix of Chainmail and In the same versions, leather armour was called Also, the original texture comes from the Mobs used to have plate armour which didn't look slightly different. Number Twelve great for an advantage but, when adding the removed an item that would've let us team They were planning to add alliances and would've The console versions also have this unused for the Glide minigame. Number Thirteen to share it with the world. There's not really an easy way to get a picture Well, with the camera, this used to be possible! Pocket Edition used to have a camera which You could stand it up and start a timer to It was removed in 2016, but re-added as an Now, when you take a photo it goes into a them! Number Fourteen menu or with commands, even with education You can craft glow sticks of all different Using them will shake them, causing them to Similarly, you can make sparklers with magnesium, into water. In real life, magnesium burns in air and metals actually quite a realistic item. Unfortunately, you can't get it normally. Number Fifteen types as you adventure. Mojang actually removed a few over the years. This is the paeonia, which was first shown It was the main flower at his wedding, but The texture stayed in the game files and got obtainable since 1.7! Roses used to be cyan in Pocket Edition, and are more realistic. Little bit less romantic, though. Number Sixteen to the game. He unfortunately said that Mojang won't be He did say that &quot;corn could be a fun food I won't make a corny joke here though. Turnips were also mentioned once, before an Okay, now I'm hungry. Number Seventeen added. Though, you were originally going to combine It would've been used for armour and weapons This sort of explains where flint and steel It was actually added before flint, back when Yeah, they really had two sides. Number Eighteen but one of them was removed! You can get the disc for &quot;cat&quot; from chests But what about DOG? C418 did make a song called &quot;dog&quot; and it used jukebox. It's raining cats and dogs... Also, the monster heard at the end of the Number Nineteen types of item. I mean, they let you teleport in survival. However, there's another dimension that Mojang In 2018, a developer called TheRaddestBro but the nether update came and we didn't get He didn't say exactly what they were gonna nether fortress. I guess we'll &quot;nether&quot; know. Number Twenty Minecraft? Well there were 30 more that got removed, &quot;bungling potion&quot;. Those are all real names of potions that had I'll take one debonair potion, please. There used to be even more, which were obtained which for some reason created a separate type Number Twenty-One systems and TNT minecarts can be pretty fun. There are a few minecart types that were removed, Dinnerbone tweeted this screenshot in 2013, You can't get those, but you can get spawner Redstone minecarts are unique to Minecraft Number Twenty-Two Well there's actually an item called &quot;garbage&quot; Edition. While making one of the many chemical compounds use an invalid recipe, you'll be given a flaming Imagine that happened while crafting something None of these compounds are in the creative every time you need them. Number Twenty-Three the little green knowledge book that you have They were originally going to be found in Picking one up and using it would teach you This feature was partially left in the game's The ones that spawn naturally were removed. They have the same magenta name colour in items. Number Twenty-Four Aquatic, there were only fish items. One of them got removed by Mojang in this It was just called &quot;Fish&quot; and looked like This type of fish was first added all the The fish was replaced with cod, which makes as separate things. Number Twenty-Five removed over the years. The enchanted golden apple used to be obtainable could be crafted using... fire? If you somehow managed to get fire in item it into chainmail armour. This meant chainmail armour was unobtainable Horse armour also used to have a crafting for a while until they were removed. Number Twenty-Six using a lot of white dye. Why not make bleach instead? In Minecraft Education Edition, by combining this, which can be used to instantly turn Only problem is that you can't you can't even Bleach even works for removing patterns from Number Twenty-Seven That's its actual name! The &quot;very fine item&quot; was a secret item in dimension in an item frame next to this bed. It uses the texture of the side of a grass There's no way to craft it and you can't find It doesn't have much of a use either, so the a mystery. Number Twenty-Eight footprints behind, so Mojang were going to You might be thinking &quot;that's not an item&quot;, item&quot; also had a footprint item found in a This is a joke referencing the unused particle from the final game. I'd love to see footprints make a return, secret bases. Number Twenty-Nine potions, and nothing else. That's wrong in the Education Edition! Mojang actually lets you make Medicine in A poison antidote is made with silver, eye drops that cure blindness are made using and a tonic that cures nausea is made with In real life, bismuth subsalicylate is used Bet you didn't expect to learn that! Number Thirty give us in the main game is super fertiliser. Using ammonia and phosphorus, make this stuff bone meal when used on grass. It grows trees and crops instantly when used, meal used to work, before Mojang made it slightly Number Thirty-One Some people have had their unique capes removed pigman. The cape was removed because too many people This developer used to have a prismarine cape, You used to get *this* cape by playing a LOT been shut down. Number Thirty-Two and chests without commands, Minecraft is The 3D Shareware April Fools' update had three The red one was dropped by the wither, the ravagers dropped yellow ones. These supposedly open doors of the same colour, Minecraft Dungeons also has these gold and The same April Fools' update had a &quot;3D&quot; item. For some reason you could eat it for a photo Number Thirty-Three to mobs and watch them float away into the You actually can do this in the Education Iron golems and pandas are extra heavy and and chickens float up pretty fast. You can attach them to fences, too, or just They're crafted with latex, helium and a lead Number Thirty-Four in Minecraft Java Edition, but there are 9 that you probably don't know about. There's the shadow brew, giving invisibility You can get the sweet brew, which gives a resistance. And you can even get a dense brew for melee Some of the other potions are like ones from design. The new bottle shapes would be great in normal potion is which. Number Thirty-Five in the main game, but are in Minecraft Dungeons! Some of them can only be carried by hostile by Vindicator Chefs. There are 55 unique armour sets, including going to have a 5% chance to teleport you You can get it in the arcade version, where Watch this video here to learn about the rest you. Subscribe!