All right, my loves. Let's talk about how to believe in yourself and your vision, even if no one else does. Self-belief is one of the foundational things that you need in order to find success and a fulfilling life. You've got to believe in yourself in order to get somewhere. You can't really do anything difficult if you don't believe in yourself. If you have self-doubts along the way, there's so many internal blocks that are gonna stop you from executing and seeing something through because you don't believe you can truly do it. Let's talk about honing our self-belief and our self-confidence in ourselves and our abilities, and also in our visions for what we wanna create in the world or in our lives. Exactly this time of year, nine years ago was the beginning of Lavendaire. It was when I started to have these ideas and started planning this new YouTube channel that I was gonna launch, and the spring always takes me back to that time, especially this year. This year is a funny year. But I was reminded of how it felt in that first year of starting this YouTube channel. I remember how I had to commit to making a video every single week, putting it out there for nobody to watch. Literally nobody was watching these videos. No one was really searching for these videos in that time, 2014. A lot of the topics that I talk about now, personal development, self-care, spirituality, mindfulness, whatever, it was very weird. It wasn't mainstream. Everything on YouTube was just beauty and fashion, and I really wanted to go deeper and talk about life. I wanted to talk about purpose, how to overcome your fear, how to change your limiting beliefs. It's funny because when I started the channel, I had the intention for, you know, to talk about these topics. And I knew it was not popular, but something in me had like. an intuitive knowing that there was a gap. If no one's talking about this on YouTube. I can talk about it. That's a gap that I can fill. And I truly believe that eventually, more and more people would care about things like meditation and journaling and want to relate and talk about this kind of stuff. I also remember a big struggle in that time of my life was dealing with the judgment that I felt from my peers, from society, from my family, and just doing something that was not normal to people, that people didn't understand. People either didn't support. or they looked down upon. I truly had to commit to my vision. and commit to doing the thing for a long time before. people started to get it, before it finally started to become what I had envisioned in my mind. When I started Lavendaire, I did have a vision and a feeling of what it could be. because I'm a dreamer. I know how to envision it first. But obviously when you're starting, like your videos are bad and it doesn't really look that great and execution is not good. People don't really understand what you're trying to do. People can't see what's in your mind. Only you can see what's in your mind and in your heart. There will be times where if you have a dream or if you wanna do something, you wanna create something, the people around you might not get it and they might think you're dumb. They might just judge you and it's up to you to not let that bother you. Trust yourself, trust your vision, and truly believe in it in order to give it the energy. Nurture that idea for it to begin to take form. If you doubt yourself in the beginning, you're not gonna get very far. If you let what other people say. Or think about your dream affect you, you're not gonna get very far because there's always gonna be someone who doesn't agree with you or who doesn't support what you're doing or who has some sort of judgment And it's not because they're a bad person or anything, but it's just because they don't see what you see. Like their perspective is completely different. How can you expect them to understand what you see? The first thing that I will say about learning to believe in yourself and your vision is you have to truly lean into your intuition and your inner wisdom You have a voice inside that is connected to something bigger than you. It's connected to the divine and so trust in those very organic feelings of, oh I, I feel this is right, this is the right path. This is the right decision. You have to get quiet with yourself. You have to really develop this relationship with yourself in order for that to feel stronger. But each of us has that intuition and that inner knowing. Lean into that in order to be confident in what you believe and be confident in your vision because it feels right to you. The second thing is to learn to set very good boundaries that protect your energy and protect your idea and your vision. If you feel like your vision is so out there and a lot of people are gonna reject it, then just don't tell them. keep a boundary that protects you from anything that takes you away from that deep inner knowing because we easily get swayed by other people's opinions and what they say. If you're that type of person, just keep it to yourself. And if you do experience other people giving you that negative judgmental energy, then remember to cleanse yourself from it and I'm doing this because I learned this exercise recently from this healing guide teacher. Basically, we all have auras and we wanna protect our energy bubble. Basically, you can do this in so many ways. You can meditate and imagine a bubble of energy, some, maybe it's like a pink bubble that you're in where you're protected and negative energy, doesn't get to it. You can visualize it if you're a visual person. Another thing that I was saying. I learned recently is if you envision, you have like an aura and an energy bubble around you and if you experience people's negativity or whatever, you can literally just shake your body and do this. If you imagine there's smoke here and you do this like a zigzag motion, like the smoke kind of disperses, even if it's weird, try it. You know, if you just clear your energy. Or you can take a shower, you know, showers literally cleanse our energy. You can go out in nature, go for a walk because I feel like nature cleanses our energy. You just wanna purify, cleanse and detach yourself from any negative energy from other people because it's not your own. Just focus on yourself, your own inner knowing, your own inner wisdom and cleanse everything that is not serving you. Another thing that's really important is for you to get super clear on your vision and your idea so that you can believe in it. The more you can visualize it, the more details you can imagine about that future or that idea, the more that you can truly believe that it's possible. I've mentioned this in. previous manifestation videos, but the things I used to do in that first few years of starting my channel where no one was really watching Lavendaire, I would Photoshop like my channel and put like 1 million next to the subscribers, even if I only had like 100 subscribers. And I would put that on my vision board. I would also write affirmations of this new reality that I was creating and I would read it to myself every night and I repeat it in my mind as I was going to sleep. For example, I would write something like, I am inspiring and empowering millions of people from around the globe on improving their lives and all this stuff and I was saying this, even if the reality was so far from it, I mean it is weird that I say that now because I feel like I'm truly doing that and the YouTube channel just hit 2 million subscribers, which I haven't acknowledged on this channel yet. Thank you. Thank you guys. It's funny cause my goal was always 1 million and I never really set a goal above that. So it's reality now. But nine years ago, It was so far from reality and it was not like a very fast or very clear road there. Before some reason I did truly believe in my vision and this path just felt truly aligned to what I was meant to be doing. Like everything just felt so right that I had that level of commitment. Okay, this, I know I have to be patient, but I believe that it's going to work out. Another reason why this topic came to my mind recently was because I feel I'm in a stage of my life where I am beginning again. I am once again a beginner. I am once again an amateur and I'm going through those feelings that I was going through in 2014 when I was just starting this channel. And I'm referring to like the new directions that I'm taking this year, for example, our new dream life club, I'm doing monthly events where I'm hosting workshops or I'm inviting guests to host workshops and we're doing something that we've never really done before, but it's something that I've been planning or thinking about for over a year. I thought it'd be so cool. To have like monthly events and to have a space to learn and to grow together in community that is something that is new, it's a new direction and I've been getting new ideas this year, like new dreams. And I think maybe it's once you've gotten to a point where you've achieved the dreams that you've set for yourself before. then, you're ready for something new, the new chapters are coming and then you have new dreams come to you. Once again, I am feeling like I'm a beginner. Obviously I've been doing this for nine years, I have some level of experience compared to when I was literally out of college. But still I feel those feelings of, okay, I have a vision for what the future could be, but I'm experiencing that feeling of people not seeing my vision and people not understanding it. I'm dealing with that. And that kind of reminds me and brings me to my next point, which is you just have to show them. At the end of the day, if people don't understand your vision, it comes down to you learning to communicate your vision. That's number one is learning. to communicate it clearly. And in order to do that, you have to get clear on what it is. And the second part is you just have to take action. You just have to do it. You just have to show them and then they will get it. I mean, that's what I had to do with Lavendaire in the beginning. Nobody really understood what it was, what I was trying to do with it. And you just gotta do it. You just gotta do the thing and get better at doing it and show them. I feel like when you are gifted with a vision, a vision of what your future could be or something that you want to create. That is your gift, only you can see it because only you can see it. You are like the medium to bring that vision to life. You are the medium. to take that vision from the ethers. and through your actions, through you. It becomes a reality in this physical world. Don't feel discouraged if you have a vision or a dream and people don't believe in you or they don't see it, they don't believe it's possible, like that's not their job. Don't worry about it. Just do it and show them. Just build it and make it real and then they'll eventually get it. But the road to building it and doing the thing is you learning to believe in yourself even when nobody else believes in you. And it can be a very lonely journey. But it's a journey of self-love and it's everything we've talked about, like learning to like know your worth, feeling confident in yourself, loving yourself, Having all of those things will help you believe in yourself and it'll help you be so much stronger in this journey because that's truly the foundation of what you need. In short, your dreams don't have to make sense to other people. You don't even have to share it with other people. If you wanna keep it to yourself, if you wanna protect it for yourself, that's totally okay as well. But the most important thing is you have to learn to believe in yourself, believe in your vision, trust that inner knowing and that inner wisdom, because it truly is a gift. Only you can see it and that is such a special thing if you really think about it. You know. Think of all the artists right in the world, the famous artists, famous sculptors, like only they had that vision and only they were able to bring it to reality, right? Think of entrepreneurs only they have this vision of what this company can become and then they eventually do it People can't see what you see. And there's beauty in that. There's something very special about that. The last thing to note that is also very important is to have patience for the journey. Because in this journey, like anything good, anything difficult or challenging is not gonna happen very fast. Clearly you're gonna need a lot of patience for this journey. You're gonna have to be patient with yourself, you're gonna have to be patient with time because things take time to do. Also, don't compare your timeline to anyone else's timeline. We're all on our own paths and it's not a race. Don't feel like you're behind. Don't worry about the time that it takes. Just stay patient and keep going. Keep taking action. Keep manifesting, keep setting your intentions and being really focused, putting all of your energy into it and just do the thing and be patient. Don't expect the results because you know, you can't really predict when things will happen for you, but you have to have that trust and That's what self-belief is. It's just believing that it will happen. But being super patient, not expecting it to happen. Like immediately. Patience and perseverance. Alright. Let me know down below, how much do you feel like you believe in yourself right now in your journey from one to 10, 10 being the most, one being the least. Where are you right now in your journey of self-belief? And then let me know. What you think will get you to the next level of believing in yourself. What are you going to do in order to trust yourself and believe in yourself more? Let me know down below. On that note, I wanna wanna let you know real quick that I am hosting a Self-confidence workshop on April 20th. It's gonna be a live Zoom event. And even if you can't make the live event, you can watch this video after the event is over cause it will be recorded. If you wanna learn more about that workshop, I'll leave the link down below where you can check it out. It's part of our Dream Life Club. If you're in the club, you can attend that workshop. It's part of your membership. But if you're not in the club, you can also get tickets just for that workshop itself. It's gonna be my first workshop that I'm teaching personally. for the Dream Life Club. I am super excited. Hope to see you there! Alright, I'll see you in the next video. Bye.