Hi! Welcome to Al Muqaddimah, my name is Syawish. Today we're gonna talk about While today, the Islamic World and homosexuality there was a rich tradition of homosexuality being never completely allowed, it did become an open This video is sponsored by Magellan TV. over 3,000 documentaries and shows in various and art. They're adding new shows all the time best of all, there are no ads and an increasing with no additional cost. They were kind an extended, free, month-long trial. You can go to [try.magellantv.com/almuqaddimah](http://try.magellantv.com/almuqaddimah) Since we're talking about kings and The Greatest City which talks about the history of rulers and still remains vital to its home is A Ripple of Hope which shows how Bob Kennedy assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. together even in the darkest times. Again, you by clicking the link in the description. It would Before we begin, I'd like the term Islamic or Islamicate World is often that Islam is responsible for whatever Here, as in all my videos, the term Islamic World that comprised of Empires that called themselves at times from Spain to India, and not everyone Second, there was a lot of pederasty in often had sex with underaged children, mainly This video isn't about that. I didn't in a video about homosexuality because they're lot of people will mention it in the comments Now, this is not a theology channel but Islam's and so, we must talk about it. Most, if not all, are forbidden in Islam. In the modern era, for homosexuality but before the modern era, there who tried to reconcile homosexuality with Islam. there could be room for discussion but the story of the Prophet Lut and the destruction So, according to all schools However, there's a range of opinions about this isn't a theology channel. This prohibition, Before the modern era, there wasn't such a thing homosexual acts without having it contribute to there was such a thing as homosexuality but not were other identities that sometimes overlapped who dressed like men and this contributed to their or women and it had nothing to do with how they that Ibn Sina, or as he's known in the west, being a state of being rather than just an act. Of course, even if you had homosexual part of a familial unit and have children. As long like that for having sex with a person of the This was certainly true for two of the Islamic First, Abbasid Caliph, al-Amin, Harun al-Rashid's he began appearing with them in public. This century, but primarily because it seems that instead of running the empire. So, his mother, by dressing up beautiful girls in the clothing Since al-Amin began appearing with them in public, this started quite a trend of Second, we know that Caliph al-Hakam II of such a level that he didn't even touch women and had to cut her hair and start dressing up like a male name. Ja'far was also the name of Al-Hakam wasn't able to produce Other than these two, we know stories Monarchs and their courtiers. We know that had a male harem as well as a female the Emir of the Taifa of Seville, was Wherever slave soldiers were involved, there between the monarch and one or more of involve Mahmud of Ghazna and Malik Ayaz, Ala the Mamluks of Egypt were famous for it too. It that they often appointed someone to keep In the Islamic world, we usually don't between two people of a similar social class. different social classes. Monarchs and Servants Speaking of Sufis, one area where we often imagine is full of seemingly homoerotic themes and So, naturally, it is often interpreted as being view of this poetry. Obviously, it's not always love between two friends or if it's romantic I mean, in the modern mind, Rumi and Shams but that doesn't really seem to be the there's hardly any doubt about that, but Rumi was an adherent to the Shariah and he assume that their relationship wasn't sexual. Sufis spanned the entire spectrum in Some sufis stuck to the Shariah to the finer While none outright admit to out of the fear of orthodox Muslims, This also extended to the concept of Shahidbaazi. the idea that you can love God by loving one of and boys. Again, how far you can go in this was could you love them or could you even have sex we find names such as Jami, Attar and Hafiz. Like Some people even interpret this love for other men God. But then why use the metaphor of men and was inspired by the Ancient Greeks and they in their poetry. This was so common that, unless would normally assume that any kind of love contrary to most modern readers who'd usually Some poets and scholars did say that attraction be pious. This includes Ibn Hazm, an Andalusian love with other men and died from heartbreak. in al-Andalus and how people were often tolerant mentioned in contemporary Christian sources While male homosexuality seems to very common, homosexuality. Europeans who visited the early modern periods imagined a lot of but there's hardly any mention of it in Islamic is from a Venetian envoy at the Ottoman court women of harem wanted cucumbers, they were sent pleasure-related purposes. How much of this is tough to tell. Though, this is because there's basically no way that the We do know of one example from He was Harun al-Rashid's brother and predecessor. He beheaded two women in his harem because There are some mentions of female homosexuality who wrote about female lovers in the same way that unfortunately, we only know of these poetesses poetry hasn't survived. Interestingly, Muhammad often took female lovers because they didn't want that Ottoman Hamams or bathhouses became quite an So much so that orthodox Muslims took the some bathhouses. Although, I can't imagine it So, how exactly did homosexuality become so common There's various ideas on how early One idea is that homosexuality was already quite such as Iran. Additionally, Muslims started homoerotic themes so, Islamic philosophy and in Credibility is lent to this idea by the fact that involving female lovers and not male lovers male lover metaphors. For more credibility, we in the medieval Islamic World, there's a huge during intercourse just like We also can not put aside the impact that must've had on the development While homosexuality was quite common, or *zina* doesn't seem to be that common. This was that homosexuality came to the Islamic world their commander Abu Muslim forbade his Now, while it was normalized, In early history, we do find examples of but later on, these examples become increasingly as Stephen Murray calls it, the will You could have sex with a person of the Now, a lot of people think that the Ottoman Empire really true. Suleiman the Magnificence's lawcode was mostly just a fine. This stands in stark the punishment at the time was death. This was were played by young boys in Elizabethan England. Islamic World. However, like I mentioned, anyone in the Islamic World. This was because you was committed in private, then technically, you sodomy was okay in private. But then again, The 1858 penal (hehe) code didn't It only mentioned performing which it made illegal. So, that's So this brings us to the question, today, the Islamic world isn't exactly Even if homosexuality in the Islamic it's not as open as it used to be. Poets don't In fact, the modern editions of medieval poems such as Abu Nuwas' poetry and the Arabian This change almost seems to be overnight. As with to pinpoint the timeline and the reasons. The around the 1900s, from the 1870s to the 1920s. century, people were writing about homosexuality. shows his surprise at how all flirtation, In the second half of the 19th century, most of Muslim Scholars began to think that this was we had lost His favor. So, many reformist and power. We saw the Deobandi Movement in India, These movements gained influence and were able to These punishments were, frankly, less in line were with Victorian England. Certainly, Victorian Credibility is lent to this idea by the fact who wrote the Kamasutra and drew this, were See you next time. Don't forget to subscribe and press you can see the names and tiers of pledging a dollar or more to support