- [Michael] Hey y'all! (Paula laughs) I'm gonna make my world famous tuna salad if Paula will allow me to do it without too much instructions. (food chopping sounds) (Paula laughs) - I don't tell you how to do your tuna. - Oh, she does, she does. First of all, I start with a tuna that comes in a jar and I use, normally I get the olive oil but you can use you fresh or you can use tuna in a can but if you want world famous I'd suggest you do it like I did. - So y'all, I didn't know when I didn't know if he bought So I figured he might do it with water. If he calls himself, you - What I do, what I do-- - So I bought one of each for you. - What I do is drain the oil off, but I use a a good Some people don't like mayonnaise, so then you could just leave the oil in and it would make it a little easier to mix together. if you have some liquid in it. That's what the tuna looks like, see it's a filet in the jar, see how good it looks. - [Paula] And it's a little pricey, but it sure is good. - It's about seven bucks, a little better than seven dollars a jar. And there's a couple And that's the difference in the, that's the difference - This is a good little bit drier. And it's crazy, I buy it in But that's part of my secret. - What's that? What's part of the secret? - I can't tell you. (both laughing) - [Eddie] You'll have to watch the video. - I know it'll be in a (everyone laughing) for all my secret recipes - I'll need to subscribe Don't I? - That's right. (Michael laughing) - So anyhow, break it all up. Then I have my sous chef - He makes me nervous - Fixing some celery. And I chop it real fine. - All right, I'm gonna bring this to you and see if that's fine enough. - Yeah. That's good. Good job. - Yay. And how about your onion? How do you want those? - It could be a little large Okay. And would you like to scrape - No. You just wait just (Paula laughing) (stove clicking) Okay. Now - I'm going be calling you. - Okay. Put your knife down. Come back over here. - Okay. My nice day. (Paula laughing) - Okay. All right. (Michael laughing) You can put the celery in here. - Well, that's what I just tried to do. - [Michael] I wasn't quite finished yet. - It was it's all on your time, isn't it? All right, I'm not gonna assume that you-- - All of it. - All of it? All of it. - Now I love the celery - [Michael] Yeah, that's pretty good too. - So I hope that that-- - Okay. Now, what I wanna do is drain the-- - Half onion Michael, is that enough? - Probably a whole one. - Okay. - Okay. Now I use Jill relish and you have to drain the water out of it, um the juice off here. My hands are slippery. - I have found Michael, you know the other side of the state, now in Albany we always but I noticed when I moved to Savannah, you need a little spoon. But I noticed when I moved to Savannah that over here people are I like dill relish - Huh? I do too. I do too. I don't care for the sweet. And I thought, well, - Anyhow, you drain the Cause there's a lot of juice and it'll make you tuna than you want in your tuna. - [Paula] Yeah. - Although once you see how much mayonnaise I'll put in it... I could cut back that way maybe. (both laughing) - Listen, we're a perfect pair aren't we? - Yeah. But like I said, if you you could have left the olive oil. - If you don't like mayonnaise, - Well, you could have left It'd be easier to choke down. (Paula laughing) - Oh my gosh. And you know, some that look like mayonnaise, You know what I'm talking about? - Yeah. I'm not real fond of that. - Some people might use things like that. - They've just never tasted mayonnaise. - You know your daughter-in-law. She would gag! - Oh yeah. She don't like it. - Claudia wouldn't eat mayonnaise. If she was dying, she wouldn't eat it. She just doesn't like the texture. Okay. How is this, Sir? - That's pretty good, for a beginner. - Okay. (Paula laughs) - There you go. Is, is that the right amount? - Perfect. - Okay, good. That's the half of onion. (Paula laughs) - Yeah, let's do a half. - [Paula] Good idea. - Maybe I would use a whole one. - [Paula] Good idea. - All right. I didn't measure this, but this is a good How much dill is that Paula? - How much dill? - Yeah, if you had to measure it? - Okay, let me see. - [Eddie] Looks like a half cup. - [Paula] About three table spoons. - [Michael] Three table spoons? - [Paula] Maybe. - [Michael] It was that much in a jar. - [Paula] Or four table spoons. Oh my God! - [Eddie] It looks like a half a cup. - Yeah. Or least a heaping third of a cup, because that's a lot of pick. Right now I'm doing your eggs. Now y'all I am steaming. I'm steaming his eggs. Because they're so hard to peel. You see how those eggs touching the water I cook them over boiling water. Cause they just peel so much easier. If those eggs don't touch that water. So hopefully they're done but we'll see 'cause you were But we'll see. I want you to see how easy these eggs peel because they were never See that, you'll get a Eggs are done! - Would you like to chop 'em up for me? - Yes. I would love to. I would love to chop them for you. - All right. I just add a little pepper. - I have to do this carefully. - Not much, just a little bit. - Okay. Look at that perfect egg. It doesn't even have, you and well, let me cut this and I'll show y'all When you boil your eggs A gray circle circle around. - [Michael] That means - [Paula] It's overcooked, but look, that's a beautiful So there you go, Michael Grover. - [Michael] Well, you can just - [Paula] Well normally I but this is a little So I just fork 'em. - [Theresa] What would - I'd cut 'em with a knife. That same knife you'd I'd keep on cutting. (Paula laughing) That's why mine's world famous. - [Paula] Do you know what? - What? - I think you need to fire your sous chef. - Well, I am. I've got my feelers out looking - Oh you are, okay good. (Paula laughing) Good luck! Y'all apply at! - So you may be getting a pink slip. Once I find another one. Okay. Now here. - [Paula] Oh, I'm so scared. - [Michael] Okay. Now - [Eddie] Just a dollop? (Paula laughing) - [Michael] No, actually - [Eddie] Two dollops? - [Michael] Two dollops. - Well, once you taste it you'll realize why I did it that way. Okay. I wish I had some lettuce or Romaine. (spoon mixing) Okay. You wanna mix it up really good to get all that tuna. - Your wish is my command. - Is that Romaine? - Yes. Isn't that what you asked for? It's in our lettuce bag. How's that? To keep your lettuce fresh, you'll want to just trim off Just like that to expose the new veins and then run it under cold water. And that way that head of and it will freshen it back up. But this is, this is beautiful. Cause I had just trimmed it and washed it. - [Theresa] Where did - You know, somebody gave and it's called a salad &quot;Launder your salad sack before using&quot;. Okay. I did that. But I just love it. You put it in there and just tighten it up and being a terry cloth you know, they are great. - All right, would you - I would love to. All right. Now you asked for lettuce. Is there anything else you'd - No, let's see what you brought. - There's your spoon to... - Okay. - If you need a spoon. You know what I add? This is just personal thing is what I add. I had our silly salt to my tuna. - How silly? Yeah, you can add anything you want. It's not necessary. Right? It's just - Okay (both chewing) - Oh, divine. (Michael laughing) - I've never seen him make that kinda face over Ox tails, nothing. Right? Show me that look one more time. (Michael sighs) (Paula laughs) He's a goofball. - You want some more? - No thanks, I'm afraid I'll choke. (Michael laughs) It is delicious though. No thank you. - It really is. - I will fix Eddie and Theresa. - Sure. - Some right? Who would like some? - [Theresa] I would, I love his tuna. - [Eddie] Mm. - It's cause it's world famous. (laughing) - [Theresa] What more could you want? - Don't get no better sister. There you go. Ain't that a neat thing. - In it's nice little lettuce boat. - Eddie. Would you eat that? - [Eddie] Sure. - Oh, yay! Look at all the takers. - You want another bite? - No, not right now I'm Okay. Eddie. I did all that with my hands, but you know, my hands are clean. You seen me wash them 10 times. - Yesterday. - You know, lettuce is the and you crack all your jokes when I got a mouth full of lettuce. I think it's a sabotage. So that's it. I hope that. - Mmmmm! (Paula laughing) - You're so goofy. (Paula laughing) - [Theresa] And he is all your. - And yes, he's all mine, until he finds him another sous. - That's right. And I'm looking. (everyone laughing) - [Theresa] He's kidding. - Bye y'all. - Bye.