This is Pantdora, my giant 1000 gallon cloud It's stunning isn't it? This rainforest construction is my personal study the evolution of a wild ecosystem, with living within. But it's about to be changed forever. You see, an unintentionally introduced, invasive in the vivarium, endangering the precious my solution was this: Nepenthes, carnivorous ants. But after adding then in, what would shock peeking into the very bellies of the pitcher eaten, after just 24 hrs living in the rainforest, This is the craziest story of what happened my giant rainforest vivarium, to take down Part 11 of my Ecosystem Vivarium series, where Ant Channel. Please SUBSCRIBE to the channel and hit the Welcome to the AC Family! Enjoy! I covered the pots of the pitcher plants with into Pantdora. These plants needed to be planted separate plants like these pitchers have evolved to creatures is how they get their nutrients. I was excited to test these pitchers to see they could actually consume in Pantdora, but enough to stop the black crazy ants, whom taking over the tank, but little did I know, pitcher plant experiment would soon turn out. So the concept of these pitcher plants is opening of the pitcher by way of a sweet nectar, they drown and get digested by the plant's A black crazy ant. Yay, and it looks like it's drinking something Interesting! I always thought the nectar that attracts the pitcher known as the peristome. I had no idea it was secreted by the plant ant loved its taste, as it tapped its gaster I even caught the ant drinking from a nectar to find yet another nectar blob on the stem. When it was done, then came the crazy pheromone Black crazy ants, get their name from this but what this ant is doing is it is wafting area, to let nearby members of the Dark Horde And it looks like it's working. Nearby ants would get the message and come I couldn't believe things were already working crazy ants had plans of their own nearby. Oh no! The Dark Horde was once again on the move. I watched as one of their queens along with As we've seen, these black crazy ants have they set up temporary camps in strategic places areas, but this time, when I realized where into my stomach. Oh no! Our giant trap-jaw ant queen. Under this moss, was a container in which that we planted into Pantdora since the beginning. We were hoping she would raise her first larvae of a giant trap-jaw ant colony in these lands, into this area of her container, I totally There was a possibility, however, that the and was safe, so I decided not to intervene Horde had moved on. I had hoped the queen and her brood was safe. It was then that I caught sight of the craziest A jumping spider was up in the asparagus fern crazy ant that it had captured. But the ant, now dying, was releasing an alarm destroy the spider that was eating it. Nearby black crazy ants who picked up the the stalks in search of the enemy. The spider with its superior eyesight darted It knew more of the colony would soon be alarmed The ants were on a witch hunt for the spider I held my breath as I watched the news of News of the spider and their dead colony mate its way to the parade of ants, which sent the spider above their new camp. The ants raced up the stalks. I watched as one headed straight for the jumping away on contact. It knew now that it needed to escape the scene It looked around and jumped to a nearby stalk. It watched as the black crazy ants searched it would be able to enjoy another meal and black crazy ants searched desperately for I was happy to know there were at least some members of the Dark Horde, but when they would to see if they had annihilated our giant trap-jaw I expected them to be out of here within a I prayed that our giant trap-jaw queen and in there. Either way, we really needed to deal with I looked back at our pitcher plants, and black plant. The second pitcher plant had also attracted These pitchers were now the new talk of the I was most excited when I spotted that the with the opening of the pitchers. I watched as ants crawled all over the peristomes. I felt the ants were getting closer and closer Some were even hanging upside down from the Would they fall in? I felt like a hunter watching a trap I had It seemed the pitchers were also luring the as well as the hood. They drank cum gusto from these tiny drops I actually wondered about this nectar, because ants' social stomachs, but seemed to be plants' surface. My heart almost stopped as I watched an ant then crawl out safely. Woah what? Guess the inside of the pitcher wasn't as I did notice they weren't as balanced. They actually slipped a few times, and it agents, making the ants slightly drunk or And then, suddenly, I caught sight of an ant and totally falling in. It never reemerged. Another ant climbed in but managed to climb My guess was that there was a certain point crossed was impossible to go back on. Suddenly, another ant wandered in and fell Awesome! It was interesting, as well, to see that ants asking for help, which to me meant either pheromones from ants outside the pitchers in fluid and simply couldn't, or the ants influence of pitcher plant nectar and simply from trapped colony mates. I continued to watch the pitchers as they I decided to allow the pitchers to do their to see just how much these plants could actually I had a probe camera now that could peek directly for now, I needed the camera to check something The Dark Horde had surprisingly moved on from Guess, the jumping spider abduction had freaked I took the probe camera to peek into the chamber trap-jaw queen. Immediately I noticed the opening of the container This concerned me greatly. Moving in, I could see no trap-jaw ant queen. Perhaps she was concealed under this mound I removed the camera, removed the moss cover, by hand. Oh man. No queen, no babies. It was empty. Now, this could mean two things. One possibility is that the queen had actually safer underground chamber for herself and which would be a great thing, or that the colony. I truly hoped it was the former, but only Now despite this very concerning event, it for me this week. The first of which was this, over at the blackwater I spotted Rocksteady, our resident rhino beetle Blackwater Falls having a refreshing drink, The surprise was here. See it? A newly emerged damselfly lay delicately hardening Wow! I couldn't believe we now had a damselfly We've watched it grow up since we first been introduced by way of the water plants. Look at its gorgeous eyes. I loved its colour and knew it would be hardening I wondered what colour it would be in its I couldn't wait to find out. I also couldn't wait to see it flying through insects in the vivarium. Another surprise, I discovered, was inside Check it out. I spotted some tiny movements below the surface. Awww. How awesome! We finally have guppy fry! Baby guppies swam around searching for little This was perfect! They were so cute. Have a look at them! Some of the babies were already starting to and judging from the females' fat bellies, way! Eventually, if they start to overpopulate, to control the guppy population. Any suggestions for predators to help control The presence of all the new fish was so beneficial The toxic nitrogen produced from their poop plants, the submerged aquatic plants, as well rainforest. Oh, the vines of the rainforest canopy are journeys I've been happily following as Due to the dirty fish water of the pond being begun to thrive, with new leaves popping up I couldn't wait for the canopy to be just In fact, Pandora's plantlife all over the The asparagus ferns were sending out new foliage Look at this shoot! Now you can see why they call them asparagus it's related to the asparagus we humans This huge stalk will soon be like the other the vines above. It's been about 6 weeks that these plants they are truly beginning to flourish with are a favourite food to the grasshoppers of on its leaves, and leaving behind molted former We've completely watched this grasshopper because, are you ready for what I discovered It was yet another awesome surprise. Look! I spotted a baby grasshopper moving up the it was a baby, and not just one baby grasshopper, Have a look! It was so beautiful to witness and usher in the very first Pantdoran-born grasshopper I smiled watching them do the slow-mo march just a young grasshopper. Watching the coming of a new generation of Anyway, moving on with the plant tour, I've plants, but they are one of my favourites. These are a species of begonia, a gorgeous These plants grow in the understory of tropical can, they develop these silver pigments to I think they look real pretty, as do these of colour to the forest floor. Of course the various species of mosses growing the surface of the driftwood, add to that by these cute Ficus pumila mini vines which floor. I also have fallen in love with the look of overhanging the pond, and these epiphytic but rather absorb their water through their periodic splashes from Blackwater Falls onto Also, part of the tillandsia family, Spanish in this environment, which makes me so happy. All together, Pandora's plant life was a plants, truly my dream tank, and I didn't a major player at helping me deal with Pantdora's day. Night fell in Pantdora. I spotted our Green Reaper, our female praying Stanley, our bush cricket had also emerged Our various tree frogs, of which there were nightly hunting sprees to feed on insects. But they weren't the only ones doing so. I spotted a baby cricket now feeding from It seems the crickets were also attracted It crawled around the outside of the pitcher I watched wide eyed bracing myself for the The cricket seemed pretty proficient at navigating the miniscule samples of delicious nectar I watched it drink and wondered if it would ants did, and eventually fall in! I then noticed more crickets coming around. Two crickets were now feeding from the pitcher. They began to rough play, not knowing this Ants and a third cricket came around. And I wasn't prepared for what happened Suddenly a huge momma cricket came to lick of the babies to crawl into the pitcher, and Oh man! Cricketslaughter! The pitcher ultimately wasn't giving up interest, so she eventually moved on, to be to mate. The adult crickets were actually loving the defended their desired singing areas, but to catch black crazy ants again and again! Oh, I just couldn't wait to check these It was the big day. I approached the pitchers to peek inside and To my surprise, they were still capturing This was the moment of truth. With my probe camera I peeked into the first And then, the contents of the pitcher plant's Woah! Look at all those insects. It had captured a lot of black crazy ants, winged alates it caught! See those ants with wings. Those are male and female alates, virgin males in charge of reproduction and growing the I guess they too were attracted to the pitchers Seeing this was perhaps the greatest news better population control of the Dark Horde. I could also see a cricket or two in there. Alight, and now time to check the second and it managed to consume! I went in with the probe camera and was stunned Man, several baby crickets were seen floating shocked me about this pitcher was the amount to the very bottom of the pitcher. That was a very considerable amount of ants Though I couldn't see the exact constituents I bet there were a lot of winged alates down This was all totally amazing to see. It was clear that these pitchers were hands It had only been 24 hours and the pitchers And to think, these pitch plants only had There were more pitchers growing on the way of insects. So what do you guys think? Do you think we should add more of these pitcher After three days, I peeked into the pitchers pitcher had caught an incredible amount of of the pitcher and were now being digested The second pitcher was also much more full sunken to the bottom as they were being digested. Once the pitchers had had enough insects they other pitchers, but the nutrients gathered help the plant grow and create more pitchers. Overall, I was so happy with the results, help put a dent on the black crazy ant population, pitchers' progress and see how well they surely consider getting more, perhaps try I specifically wanted to see if they preferred more humid spot closer to the fog stream up Now, AC Family, you won't believe this, eyes fixated to a place that instantly made Look! In one of the tillandsias, I couldn't believe The Dark Horde was nested into the tillandsia This looked like a considerable amount of I guess the alluring pitcher plants had convinced location conveniently nearby, and I realized mostly asleep, that this was the perfect opportunity The giant Tillandisa had set it up perfectly I went in and slowly moved away the Ficus colony, and then when I was ready... Yoink! I snatched the entire Tillandsia plant, which and placed the entire plant with the colony Have a look at how many ants were in there! This was easily a few thousand black crazy This trapped colony could now be moved into a local school. Goodbye! I knew we had captured a great amount of the around looking for where the majority of the I abducted her to join the rest of the Dark Though there were several ants still left were no queens left behind, and if that was put an end to the Dark Horde once and for But if there was even just one queen left back to their powerful numbers, but the fact was amazing, because it would give the other with the Dark Horde and keep them from completely Either way, I was so grateful this week to The pitchers had actually surprised me with able to consume, so to me they were a great Thank you, AC Family, for recommending them It was a great move! I then noticed that new asparagus fern stalk bush cricket the night before, but this didn't growing all over the plant both from the main Plants were resilient and regenerative lifeforms! This all made me realize how essential plants for plants. I mean, check this! Stanley's discarded leftover leaves littered by other insects like baby crickets, as were The poop from these herbivorous insects would Some of the insects would fall prey to the poop from these predators would become food and thereby provide more plant fertilizer. Some of the insects would fall into the pond, life or simply rot, and both outcomes eventually all over again, with plants nourished by animals Of course, plants take in carbon dioxide produced oxygen for animals to breathe in. Plants eating up the toxic nitrogen from the to drink, and the aquatic animals to live It seems that for millions of years, plants yang of nature, two teams of organisms intertwined But perhaps the most amazing thing I learned in our rainforest had evolved different and need for nutrients, whether it was extracting from the surfaces of decaying wood, directly droplets splashed onto their leaves, or in it directly from cleverly captured insects Every plant had its own brilliant design geared ensured all of life as a whole would thrive, help but stare at the beauty of the ecosystem that as long as the plants of our planet were we, ours. But my work to defeat the Dark Horde was not Over the next few days, I didn't see any meant we had removed a considerable amount Only time would tell if we removed all queens But, in this Dark Horde absence, I knew now in place within the ecosystem, so Pantdora case the Dark Horde was attempting to make It was time to introduce more ants, a native into the rainforest bioscape, while making These ants were bigger, tougher, and had a and I've been wanting to introduce these creation, but couldn't until now. Oh, carpenter ants! Welcome to your new home of Pantdora! Wel, well, well. Lady Deathstrike, my beloved huntsman goddess. What do we have here? I see legs, lots of tiny beautiful legs. Perfect! The Era of Arachnida is near! Hope you can subscribe to the channel as we Please remember to LIKE, COMMENT, SHARE, and It's ant love forever!