You know this scene from The Wizard of Oz. It happens just after Dorothy croons in sepia-toned Toto wags his tail, She travels from a faded film strip to a Technicolor But there are three things about this scene And each one helps show the real history of These misconceptions explain what the the technical aspects that made it work, to way in which the technology shaped the look Lie #1 - Wizard of Oz is not the first Technicolor Not even close. You might know that, but a lot of people don't. Come on Maryland Science Center, you're Historian Barbara Flueckiger has an exhaustive hand-painted film A Visit to the Seaside. But Technicolor stood out, and even it has Oz. Herbert Kalmus, Daniel Frost Comstock, and with the "Tech" referring to MIT, where It started by merging red and green - into You can see the look in this range of movies It could do passably well with skin tones, there's no blue in these dresses for a reason. Blue came into the mix in 1932, when Technicolor They showed off the process in Walt Disney's that was a botanist's nightmare. You know, there are evil trees in Wizard of "What do you think you're doing?" Anyway, in order to get Technicolor to work, Technicolor distributed and we can make a reasonable simulation digitally, So here's a scene of some Lego people who Not sure what's going on here, but it's A technicolor camera would typically take that split the light into red, blue, and green Those negatives were then flipped into positive which eventually got soaked with dyes of the So the red matrix turned cyan, the green one Then the dye was transferred -- this was a final gorgeous Technicolor image. So if you're anything like me, that explanation "Oh I'm a failure because I haven't So let's try it again, but only look at So keep your eye on the View-Master, the red hat. It is all kind of dark now, because that's Now flipped in the matrix, that red is really it won't get a lot of And that makes sense. Cyan is the complementary color -- it's So where you want a lot of red, you do not That way, when it comes together, you get You don't have a lot of cyan, because the In the earlier days of Technicolor, they also The company would add a black and white layer called &quot;the key.&quot; You can see the results early, in films like The Trail of the Lonesome Pine, before the Wizard of Oz. It's easy enough to roughly copy the technology RGB split, color bath, mesh, repeat. But the film strip processes are just part Lie #2: this scene? It's not going from a black and white world The set was actually painted sepia-tone so for the bright Oz reveal. Today, it's much easier. I can draw a box with my hand and with a click, They even had techniques to do stuff like But the fact that they built a sepia house shaped all color movies. "This is one of the cameras that was used The Wizard of Oz." "It weighs 4 to 500 pounds, and these cameras because they had to run three strips of film So remember -- this scene? That had to be done with this beast of a camera. Those three strips didn't just require more That set had to be blazingly overlit to get of film. The set was reportedly 100 degrees Fahrenheit Sound was an issue, too. "It's so loud when you're running three to build this blimp around it. It's filled with soundproofing material get all the sound from the camera throughout Technicolor's advantages outweighed its It's main advantage was the way in which Two movies made in the same year could have choices made in front of the camera. Technicolor consultants and directors tweaked magenta and yellow dyes. The complicated dye transfer process gave skin and deep saturated colors. The film and technology weren't the only distinctive look. It also shaped the world that they chose to Lie #3: This isn't the real Dorothy. It's Judy Garland's body double. She wore specially designed clothes and makeup could swoop in, in the same shot and These movies, and Oz, were shaped around Technicolor's "The second page that you see here is the being unveiled, but what it shows is that but the producers of the film really wanted paying for, so they wanted them to be sparkly the yellow brick road. So they changed it at the middle of production Today, the shoes are kept under low light were blasted with light to accommodate the These weren't just on-set decisions -- Technicolor Look at the credits for Wizard of Oz, and The Trail of the Lonesome Pine, and A You'll see one name over and over. Natalie Kalmus. Once married to Technicolor cofounder Herb Technicolor productions for many of the early Kalmus had over 300 film credits where she told directors what to do. This is the IMDB page for a woman born in In she extended her reach into art -- the essay "Red: danger, blood, life, heat. Green: Nature, outdoors, freedom, freshness." Kalmus's influence was significant, but power. Technicolor had its own processing facilities, Kalmus' work after she left the company. The technology and the production process advantage to alternatives being used. Despite all those alternatives shown on Barbara Technicolor for a long time. It had a reliable system and color, without requiring special equipment. Technicolor eventually fell to cheaper processes used a single strip. The Godfather, Part II was one of the final But old prints remain surprisingly vibrant Today, I can snap my fingers and be in Down. Ok. What are all these dust particles? Is this asbestos? Am I covered in asbestos right now? Technicolor was never just a click -- and weaknesses, the artistic choices made infrastructure and supervision. In that key scene from the Wizard of Oz, you double, or the sepia doorway, or even that But one thing is easy to understand, intuitively. The movie is all about it. Technicolor wasn't a switch or a doorway. It was a whole world, just waiting on the You can nerd out a lot more on Technicolor or Eastman House, which was really generous you saw in this video. I've linked both of those below. You can see the director's commentary for made where I share some behind-the-scenes quite fit in.