In this low-lying car I drive in I've been noticing something lately. When I'm sitting in traffic I either can't see past or the cars around me And it turns out there's The production of passenger cars for sale in the US, has been in freefall and in their place has been in the production of SUVs. Last year, SUVs and trucks made up 80% Compare that to 52% in 2011. The fact that Americans like big cars probably won't shock anyone. They are everywhere. Even in my parking scarce neighborhood But the reasons behind this transformation are more than just cultural. It all goes back to a 50-year-old policy that would kick off a huge shift So I'm driving from my home to a beach in Rhode Island for And along the way, I'm going to why big cars took over America. New York was the 45th state to officially succumb to the takeover according to this Washington Post analysis. Alaska was the first state to go So I'm wondering if you have any advice for things they should look out for Anywhere that you stop count the number of SUVs versus Okay. I'm in the Costco parking lot... One, two, three... ...four, five... ...six, seven... ...eight, nine, ten, I think that is my new record. Once you learn about how much big cars dominate the road, People have lots of reasons And certainly the infrastructure Unlike a lot of other countries our built environment revolves We have wide roads and wide, and homes with plenty of parking. I arrived in Connecticut a state that succumbed to and pulled into a rest stop where I interviewed Thomas Bochenek who was on a cross-country road trip It's very comfortable to drive. Well, I think the bigger the car, you have a feeling of security. You know, the smaller the car, the more likely I think about and being hurt. It has no trouble pulling this In other countries one deterrent for big cars so much to fill up But due to low taxes fuel is extremely cheap compared But there's another overlooked bias towards big cars related to why SUVs exist in the first place. In the 1970s there was a shortage of "1973 dramatized US dependence So the US government set rules to start making cars to lessen our dependance on the whims By 1985, new cars had to get or roughly double their fuel efficiency. These new rules applied to cars under a category known as passenger cars. But there were types of vehicles from these rules. Things like pickup trucks which everyday drivers weren't really And the idea was if these used by farmers, construction crews companies that are hauling freight... those vehicles need to be able without being choked by and without being held to unrealistic So passenger cars got one set and this other category got another set of more relaxed standards. This regulation created an incentive for carmakers to transform light trucks into Put in a radio, lots of and comfy seats and voila. That's how we got the SUV. "Okay, girls, we're off in our "Behind that classic appearance, An automaker needs to spend less money and less time on fuel economy if they're making and selling an SUV because it falls under a category that is less stringently regulated. We had the Wagoneer, but very bespoke, very expensive. So only very few people bought it. People who lived in Manhattan or go to northern New York State And that's how the SUV This is Ralph Gilles, head of design a conglomerate of car companies One of the early SUVs was built on the frame of the This is the traditional definition of an SUV. If it was built on the frame of a truck. And to meet the legal definition it had to have some clearance angles Taking a utilitarian vehicle almost a premium luxury device Then comes the Grand Cherokee. The Jeep Grand Cherokee was built the way passenger cars are: These two types of car construction, today form the distinction between and the new, increasingly popular They're more efficiently packaged. You don't have the frame. The Grand Cherokee was part of story of SUVs in the 90s One that continues today. This bias towards light trucks which once sold primarily passenger cars has discontinued a lot of them today... like the Passat in favor of SUVs and crossovers. And they've stopped producing including the Jetta Wagon I'm in. And a company like Ford has stopped producing all of their passenger cars except for the iconic Mustang. Okay. I'm going to see if anyone at this Buick was always car, really. That was mostly sedans. And then just with the market shift we actually don't even sell They don't even make a Buick sedan. It's all crossovers. When was the last time you guys carried, like, a Buick passenger car? Oh, it was like three or four And how many did you have Like 1 to 100 of, you know, SUVs. We're here to sell cars. We want If they were here, if people didn't want them, So this chart starts to make a lot more sense. 1975 was the year these for sedans and wagons were passed... the same ones that didn't apply as strictly It's a little bit of a chicken and egg thing because the automakers have been more preferentially than passenger cars. They've been putting more research and development into creating more models that fit into the SUV category. And they've made it so that it's to get into an SUV than it is to As of 2016, our fuel economy standards shifted. Vehicles are still separated by for passenger cars and looser standard But within those categories, Regulators multiply a car's wheelbase length by its width to get a footprint. And larger cars within each category That means that carmakers are to phase out passenger cars but they are pushed to make The Toyota Camry got both and the Toyota RAV4 did, too. I've now reached Rhode Island... the very last state in the country We have started the inevitable transition You're still talking about a larger vehicle with higher ground clearance, It's still going to be less... energy efficient. Whether it's an electric car or an internal combustion One sobering impact of big cars is the threat it poses to pedestrians. One study found that replacing would have averted over People on foot get hit higher and in more vulnerable regions or a truck rather than a passenger car. Before hitting the beach, I stopped He's bucked the SUV trend a car that was discontinued in 2020. We had our daughter about 17 months ago... just kind of making sure that to be comfortable as well as being safe. It gets good gas mileage and you know, climate change is happening. What can we do to minimize our carbon footprint So we were thinking about the second car... you know, maybe getting an SUV in that situation, but ultimately decided the other direction and and got an e-bike. You have arrived. Even though we're in Rhode Island which was the last holdout there are still a lot of SUVs here. I'm curious if you think there's or urgency to change this trend towards bigger cars. That's you know, that's something that's-- that has environmental concerns. That's something that has economic concerns with how much we are reliant on oil. It also has to do with safety. You know, pedestrian safety, cyclists safety. So there is a desire among the younger people and more politically active people so that an SUV is not the default vehicle choice for American families. The US is unlikely to become a But this dramatic transition to big cars wasn't just about consumer choice. It was enabled by a policy choice. So if we want our roads to look different... we can try and start there.