- [Stefan] Luxury means I see space as luxury. I see view as luxury. Light, sun, great weather, with the architecture to create I think that's what this I'm Stefan Antoni. I'm a director at SAOTA, and we are in my personal house Design, architecture, Today, we're touring a property Designed by SAOTA and nestled on the slopes of Lion's Head here We are truly standing on what some Now, I've been waiting for the moment to tour this property So, it is my great privilege to The entrance to the house is, on purpose of very powerful, almost spiritual space. I want it to be quite a moody, mystical, mysterious kind of space. Almost like you are going That you are And so the materials there are all stones, stone on the floor, the light shines up the walls. With a very dramatic And a very raw steel and glass And then you go into the lift. And then the lift brings And throws you out into almost the clouds. The transition from deep Welcome to the fifth floor We're currently in the great room. Seating area, formal dining room, And of course, we have these sliding glass to this amazing terrace I know we're supposed to cover some but I wanted to take everybody outside This is absolutely insane. - [Mikey] We've seen a lot of crazy views but this might be one of the most stunning The way we have the mountains, the ocean, and this infinity edge pool It's incredible. Couldn't agree more. It's jaw-dropping. Welcome to the fifth level, Now, let's cover the seating area. L-shaped couch, few chairs, I really like the light fixture here. Great volume. I mean, look at the ceiling height and It extends out to the exterior. And I'll talk about the ceiling Last thing I want we have another sliding glass door opening We currently have it closed because it is a little windy today and this property but we just want to make sure it Now, welcome to the Solid wood table, seating for 12, I really like the dining area Space is very open, and even from your dining room, Now, on my left, we have the chef's kitchen, But before I cover this section, I want to talk about the specs So we have six bedrooms, This home is available Starting from R135,000 per night, and it can go up to R185,000 depending I want to give big thanks to In Residence, And Stefan, the owner here As always, you can find more information about this listing in the Make sure to check it out. And what a cool opportunity for people enjoy it, enjoy its amenities But you also get a chance to appreciate This is incredible. The way we've been treated Not only have we been able to get a one of a kind architectural lesson spoiled and taken really good Absolutely. property for a few nights, I mean, being able to wake up in that primary bedroom, or every day have our breakfast, I mean, what an incredible home. Not a complaint in the world. All right, now let's cover the kitchen, island in the center, bar seating. Rest of the Induction cooktop, And I really like, here with these beautiful They even have a skylight I really like how this section fills They also have two concrete planters And if you follow this hallway, it takes And there's also a spiral staircase that And with that, we're Now I want to take everybody back outside so we can really appreciate Outdoor dining area, You have your pizza oven and built-in Outdoor shower, your infinity edge pool. Look at this pool for a second. Look at our elevation. Being able to swim here every single morning, get your day started, property to enjoy these views, I mean, look at this, Clifton Beach We are on the slopes of Lion's Head, This view, in my opinion, is This is the Atlantic Ocean, Yeah, this is absolutely incredible. All my life, I've been reading about this strip of water off the southern Coast it was one of the most dangerous passages This passage around Africa is basically so difficult to pass But with a view like this, The way this entire property is designed is to channel this view In fact, look at this That entirely opens up I just love this roofline, how this bottom section extends and the entire space In fact, Mikey, let's go up there because We need everyone to see what it's like to be in that room to enjoy because view even better and just We have a small seating area on this side, skylight above bringing natural light, They have a glass floor here that looks built-in seating area, This is a sliding glass window I have to say, this section right here In fact, the day we arrived to Cape Town and walked into this house, I lay down there, had my espresso, I even put a story up on Instagram You even took a little nap also. Yes, I did, because it took me I had to get on two long flights. But long story short, and look how incredibly this section This is an iconic SAOTA design. Every single SAOTA home we toured. Had some sort of a and we toured a lot of them, We toured Michael Chen's We toured another one of his developments in Bel Air, home in Dubai, We got a chance to understand And seeing this it's all tying it together, Now, that's it for this section. Before we move on, The way they cut and fabricate I love the angles. They call this section the sky bar, we have a staircase that takes This has to be one of the coolest spaces within this property, There's a good-sized balcony with full glass railing Then we're at the Skylight above, I got to say, how each corner Then you can really appreciate Look at this board-formed You can see all the variations. There are some sections that are sunk in. Some sections are a little bit more proud. There's actually a really cool story here. So, the wood planks they used to form this ceiling has been repurposed down Because they kept these wood planks in these forms for over a month, all the chemical reactions It gave each one of the planks It is nice that same material is reused down below on the bedroom It kind of ties the whole story together. From the ceiling here Yeah, when we interviewed Stefan, But as we walked through that space, Enes will point that out again, I'm sure. Absolutely. Look at all the clerestory windows On the other side, we have another office Then we have these sliding glass doors opening up to the back Something that I'm really taking away from Beyond House is Stefan Antoni's Seeing the minimalist approach and the use wood, and glass really opened To him, the house is like a Connecting to the environment around it, and providing And that's a perspective I really admire. One of the key things about being sustainable is if you're going to build This house was built so that no one Concrete gives us the opportunity a fluidity because you can form You can give it a beautiful texture. So steel, glass, and concrete but again, very much in the context I guess you can technically Even though we're five stories above we have this grass section right concrete columns, architectural lines, doors opening up the great room and It's nice. Right behind, Mikey, we have Towards the hillside, with a fire pit, outdoor There's also an outdoor I really like how they extended out these beams to create a partial This house also has access to Lion's Head. If you see the door right there, it actually takes you to a private trail, to the public trail that takes you Really nice space. Let's turn back for a second. Look at all the architectural lines, It flows right back in Now we also have a leather sectional couch, coffee table This section is built out of board and it goes all the way to the ceiling, because they wanted to leave that revealed windows to maximize the natural Now, if you follow this hallway here, two water closets that services And if you wrap around, here that is more close to the great room, Overall, fifth level is incredible. This is the heart of this home, All right, we have the majority Behind me is the elevator landing. And check out this bridge that takes us to the other side and the volume we have designed and how it curves beautifully, Now, we talked about the board-formed These are the wood planks they use within those forms to create And what's so cool about these planks is the fact that they sat in those forms And because of that, a lot of the water, chemical reactions from the concrete You can see the color variation, And, Stefan did a planks here on the ceiling Yeah, Stefan loved talking about these board forms, and he was really excited to They look really cool, the cliff in front of you That's third floor where we Super cool space. We're going to tour it after this level, The way this bridge is curved, how it allows natural light to transfer it just makes the experience fun, Now we have the seating area, sectional couch, really cool chairs, Sliding glass doors open up You even get a peek of the ocean Like I said earlier, this services Speaking of the bedrooms, this one is the first one, walk-in closet, located Now, facing the ocean, By the way, they even have a fireplace over here, and this level is also All right, guest suite number two, the In fact, you can just walk in, vessel sinks, LED lit mirrors. And you have a Nicely glass enclosed, Now, going in your wardrobes. King-size bed and sliding glass doors What an experience. Yeah, I actually stayed in this room while we were staying in this house, and look out at these ocean views It's just so beautiful, Actually, let's go take We're going to take everybody Fun detail. There's a door that opens up and takes Layout is pretty similar to the room that we just toured, but first, I mean, look at this place. It's unreal. The perspective you get looking down from these incredible slopes gives you Gorgeous beaches. Stunning mountain ranges, winding along the foothills, all part Getting a chance to sit down with him how his designs really And Beyond House is a perfect example as it amplifies your experience Look, in my personal opinion, Cape Town And, Clifton is a remarkable It's just unique. It's got the most beautiful bays over Lion's Head just behind us here and Table So, it's all in this one space. And the most incredible thing is that we which is called the southeaster, actually protects Clifton So whereas the rest of Cape Town might be calm, and that is unique, So it's like the gods definitely Cape Town is so beautiful. I feel like we've been saying that a lot It's hard to deny. And this house, its story, And something about this place, I think the rawness of it and its Yeah, Enes and I. Have nothing but good things to say and the people, Without a doubt. Again, layout is pretty similar. You have your king-size bed, desk area, open bathroom, toiletries, details, Big thanks also, In Residence for hosting Everything is so well taken care of. You can actually see their details Like I said earlier, this one is available And how meticulously maintained It shows their attention to detail. For sure. Now, welcome to the primary bedroom suite. It starts here, off of the entry, and then the hallway takes Nice seating area. Bed is elevated on this platform, Volume is great. And just like the other bedrooms, Your bathroom is on this side, and this is the room you wake With the main bedroom, what is lovely is that the bed is raised which means that when you lie in bed, you get a lovely view out the sliding which is a very well-known I always like the bedroom space For me, it's your private space. The shower and the bath, and the basins are all part So bedroom is not, in my opinion, It's really about the ritual of waking up freshening yourself up, It's the reverse process. It's then cleansing the day's The bath has a little fire trough, and there's something very primal with fire, with the elements Now, let's talk about the bathroom, You have your vanities here, two sinks, LED lit mirror, which are Mikey, we're going to take It's all glass with two rain heads above, Yeah, and you have We're going to see that in a second. I mean, it's incredible to be able to just Exactly. another walk-in closet, makeup area, That's pretty much it for the bedroom. Now, let's check out this Like Mikey said, this is the tub that's outside of the walk-in Look at the steel screen detail that's above us, of this home and the views Honestly, it feels unreal that we traveled place and got a chance Welcome to the entertainment level, Behind me is the elevator landing. This door opens up to a really Check out this space. Volume is fantastic. You have a ping-pong table, pool table, But first, I want to bring everybody's a really nice bar here with a popcorn that is supposed to sit as Yeah, you're not supposed That is just decoration, I believe. Precisely correct. We can walk straight into Now, the way they design this Obviously, ceiling height here is fantastic and push of a button, Get a little bit of privacy. I'm just going to open it up because Two comfortable couches, speakers, It's just a nice, You don't even necessarily It's just a nice hangout spot. Now on the other side, we have some Pool table, table tennis. We've actually spent quite a good amount of time here hanging out and enjoying even the wall paneling that goes up all that you can still get these amazing You even have a foosball table, small gym, spa that we're going But for now, Mikey, Because we skipped the detail If you look up, And there's If you open that door and go through the smaller door within that room, Come with me. I know I came into that Welcome to the squash court, located on the fourth floor towards If you look above, you'll see the concrete beams and the concrete ceiling that ties Because this property is built on such a steep lot, you'll end up with In this case, they turned Mikey, pass the ball. This is super fun, huh? You need to work a little And they turned it into a squash court. And then also... Well, it leads to this really cool space, That was a terrible shot. But regardless, this is part of your Now, let's go back to the entertainment I'm really impressed with the volume here considering the fact that we're currently Like I mentioned earlier, I just love that Now follow me this way. Right in front of us is the spa. You have sliding glass doors opening up. And above that is the second That's actually a bedroom. Just like the spa, it opens up to this If you're wondering how you get up there, there's a staircase right next to the It's a very spacious room, has a full bathroom, and it is Now, let's check out the spa. Two massage tables, nice punching bag. You have your sauna, steam shower, open up to this small garden It's really interesting to me to find these spaces within this property We have six levels, floor you would have these amenities, better because we still have more What do you think, Mikey? I was very surprised when we first got room and how it connects It's obviously very impressive, down here working on my computer I hear you. all the art pieces, color variations, Now, on the other side, we have a pocket door, which is right here, This is the part of the home that you can easily see from the exterior because I love that it's floor-to-ceiling glass. Your views are truly unobstructed. You have a small seating area here, obviously built in shades throughout, Your bed is on this side, LED lit, freestanding tub, walk-in shower, vanity is on this side, Really impressive guest suite. There's a reason why they call Now, I want to bring everybody Obviously, look at the backdrop. I feel very honored that we got the opportunity to tour this place, understand his vision for this property, If there's anything that people could take away with them when they come to this itself in its context and just bring this of the mountain, the sea, I think the way architecture can frame a view and just elevate it from just with into something that is beautifully And you can actually And it enters your Sometimes just standing in the mountain, I think architecture has that ability to somehow funnel it and frame Looking back I realized. The more we understand The more we get a clear perspective of how And how they contribute to our I'm so inspired by Stefan Antoni's one that connects the homes design He focuses on how it frames our experience and holds the concepts of sustainability As for our team, we're just excited to be And we cannot wait to find more amazing That will inspire us as much as So we can continue to share these All right, everyone, Hope you'll enjoy this video. Big thanks to the booking agent, Philip Gullan, In Residence and SAOTA And as always, you can find In the description of this video, Now, if you enjoyed our tour, give us a like, subscribe,