Hey there guys, Paul here from Theengineeringmindset.com. In this video we are FCU stands for fan coil unit. Now fan coil units are very common in all types of buildings canteens, even some homes. And maybe apartments will Fan coil units are used to condition the local air to suit the of the immediate space. So as you can see in this model here, we've got this space here and there's a fan coil unit in there. With the duct work going off And then on the fan coil We've got these pipes running to it, which are the cooling And the air, which has has been treated and distributed through these local duct works, to supply the required air. So in this building model here, you can see we've got the main AHU here and that's supplying fresh all the way along to the rooms. And branches will come off of this and they will feed fresh Each space will need a certain amount of fresh air per hour So you'll have a brunch coming off and that will feed the So this fresh air is the inlet of the fan coil unit. And it's usually not connected though, there's a gap in between. There is a reason for that, And so that fresh air enters into the box, it gets sucked inside here. As a fan, we'll have a and that air gets heated or cooled and pushed out through these Now some of that air will recirculate up through the false we looked at and back into this box here, whereas some of the air will be picked up into this return duct and that and pushed out of the building. So the fan coil units are So this is a false ceiling And here you can see these diffuses, these are the supply diffusers is being supplied into, this office here, right, can circulate there and through these return grills. If that false ceiling wasn't there, it would look something like this. So here we got a fan coil unit. And we've got these, the duct work, which is supplying the air. These are also diffuses, from the square ones we So this fan coil unit is in this space and it's There's a fan inside and and cooling coil, which treats the air to the right temperature that And that area is then pushed to be supplied out just where they're required. So this is the supply duct here. And as you can see, the and is entering into the space above this false ceiling here Now this fresh air enters and passes through the We'll have a look at Once the air is treated to it's then pushed out through the diffusers and out into the space that the dirty and the kind of used air up and that will then push this and back into the ceiling void. Now that air is mixed and pushed through. So that loop continues. Meanwhile, some of this is actually sucked up by this duct here. So any air that makes it to and that will be pushed Let's just have a look to see some of its components. So if we remove the lid, we can have a look at And as you can see, it's So this is the air inlet, so it comes through this face here. This is just a removable filter. The filters look something like this. They can just be pulled off or they can re replaced and that just tries to stop because that's going to be sent out through the local duct So the filters are just some of that and remove the dust. Once that air is pulled into the space here, it Now in the fan coil unit then maybe two fans and maybe three fans. There could be more, but in fan coil units. So driving these is a small So that motor there is and that is connected to the Now these fans are usually quite small, maybe around 80 Watts And they've got this And so, on this you can So you might have some fan blade cage here and another one on this side, they could even be extended on there as well. So that air is then forced And then into this box here, this part here contains the Now the heating and cooling coils, they just heat the air up or cool it down depending on the requirements you may have just one coil in there. It could just be a cooling coil or it could just be a heating coil. Or you may have both of them like this, where the air can be heated or cooled. So these coils are fed, say this one's the heating coil here. So this is fed hot water from the boiler. And this coil here's the cooling one. So this is fed cold We just changed the view there. And so now the air is coming through here and imagine it's coming So if this was the heating coil, then hot water is going to be entering through this pipe here and it makes its way all the way around. And as it does so loses some of its heat or if it was a cooling coil eve, as well as that loses and transfers that over into the air, which is being forced, And that's what changes Now if you are cooling the then you are gonna generate So as that warm air is being and being pushed by this and cooling chamber and it's gonna start to So this water, which will run off and it'll collect in this And so you also need a pipe And in the right months, in the UK, that's really of water you're generating. But after the air has it enters into the discharge plenum. And this is what is connected and to the diffusers. So, you may have many holes on here and these will all be out to where it's required. This is how the fans will So here we've got the two fan and here we've got just a single fan with its very own motor. Now the cooling coils, whether do not necessarily have to it kind of varies by manufacturer. So these coils could so that the air is coming in, passing through the filter, passes over the coils fast and then is sucked by But this is a very common example. Now I've put in this model and that there's water to keep up the temperature as required. You may also find that there's doing exactly the same job as this one. And the heating one it usually depends on the size and location of the fan coil and the room. But this water type is very especially office buildings. So looking at this schematic here, of how the fan coil unit works, we've got the main AHU over here and that's supplying the air and it's supplying each of the rooms. Now, not all of the fan coil units will have this fresh air duct to them. You can see this one However, each room will because there is a requirement to have a certain amount So that fresh air is supplied in, you can see in this example, it's coming through this duct This is the inlet for the fan coil unit, so it's not connected and that air will be blown onto here, but also into the void. That filter can just be removed. You can see here it's so this can just be pulled off or slid out depending on the design and or just thrown away and It could be a slightly So again, we got the fan coil unit there with the air entering and this is the fresh And the tempered air is leaving and coming up through these ducts here. You can also tell it's tempered pointing the direction of that the air could be hot or cold. Now on the coils, if they are supplied by hot or chilled water, then as you can see here, so we've got the border, which is feeding into And it also has a flow and return pipe that runs along the ceiling and connects and branches off There's also a chiller and off to the main AHU and then down into each of the fan coil units as well. So up in the ceiling, you're gonna see a lot of pipes like this. So here you can see we've So that's going this way in the color bands also indicate this. And then we've got the returns, once that has given up its heat, that comes back and heads back to the boiler again on this one. So we've got the chilled water flow, so it's flowing in this direction. Think the areas actually wrong there. And then with the chilled So this is going to the fan coil units and this is returning and these connections where they're connecting and you can see here, then from the main risers that And these are just branching off and feeding into the fan coil unit. Now the main AHU that's for the building into the spaces, this does not necessarily requirements in there for it could just be 100% fresh air being pushed in and pushed out. So it could be something just like this, where the air is passing straight in off into the spaces and and sent and pushed out of the building. You'll probably just have some filters on the supply there though, but you're still gonna have and the boilers feeding off Unless of course your cooling is supplied by a refrigeration unit and Okay, that is it for this Thank you very much for watching. I hope you've enjoyed this If it has, don't forget to Any questions, please leave them in the comment section below and we'll try to answer Visit our website, we're also on Facebook,