So, I tend to live my life by the mantra &quot;Go that this year. You have already seen us unbox we've got another doozy for you today. Today, we I feel like we've got a little bit of experience be a little bit of a challenge. You know, we're take you through the entire process so that you at your home. Of course, I would highly suggest and I believe that's actually included with the to be clear, I think Hisense would have paid to unboxing experience for you guys, right? So that's Chris, Peter, and Greg in the house to get this no way we could do this without them all here. [Music] Oh, that's right! The price has not been a reviewer--you get this stuff before everybody don't always necessarily know what the thing is between $10,000 and $20,000, which is... that's But if you compare what this thing can do with that could get maybe half as bright as this thing So, looking at the box, it's a very large &quot;Championship Edition.&quot; If you were unaware, the official TV of the NBA. And I have been told you also get a whole bunch of really fun entirely sure. Hisense is sending that to me, and of the review. But you do get a lot of perks Alright, I'm going to start removing clips, and so typically these gigantic TVs tend to open previous model that we worked with. Not sure so we're kind of figuring it out I think is like half the fun, right? So, there's This did arrive on a pallet, by the way, and it but they did a great job with that. Like I said, professional installation, I believe, is going Alright, so I feel like this box is just going help to step in. I think, you know what, where do these outside onto the patio if we can. Big reveal it is because we've got gigantic legs, and here, actually fit on our entertainment cabinet. I think going to fit, but it is going to fit. It's going Bag of goodies! Got Hisense's remote--exactly brushed metal look, but it's actually plastic. we'll figure this stuff out later. A couple of pieces out, and I think we'll just shove these Side foam--you know, so far this is a lot it's just at a bigger scale. This little symbol box apart, which makes a lot of sense, 'cause I right? Let's--actually, Greg, will you help me please? That should be fine right there, hopefully the instructions, or are we good just kind of like you know what I bet we're supposed to do? have read the instructions. Well, you know what? then that's not a problem. We can actually It's a partial reveal, just to tease! Strip this to get used to it, but you just... you never each side piece of foam out, which is going to the center piece of foam is going to keep it Pulling the side pieces of foam out will depending on how wide your media stand is, so it can go on a narrower media stand. I am though. So, the total width of and I know for a fact that this guy right or 79. We'll measure between the mounting Alright, okay. Alright, so it's too much. Yeah, Alright, so we don't have great light back oh, so there are different heights that you can height is because I can get this done right now. other leg for me, please? There we go. That's same height as the other one, which, eyeballing a little bit more low-slung, but for the sake mounting location. Just know that if you wanted no space at all, you can, or if you want to get a soundbar--I'm sure Hisense would like to sell Alright, solid-feeling legs, so surprisingly, cabinet. There's just one problem--there's let's do a little comparison to see what this so I figured we'd take a close look at the back of to be back here again. As I mentioned before, we easily removed--it's just a Phillips head screw. yes, you can wall-mount it--you'd remove the absolutely essential just for getting the TV out As we move in towards the middle, we see we but we use that term loosely. Obviously, but we have a total of four transducers the television. There's supposed to be a this. I'm noticing that there are vent holes so it's going to try and do some kind of Dolby it does in the actual review. Just wanted to this TV is going to sound kind of empty, hollow, that out of a 110-inch TV--it needs to sound as And then, on the far side of the TV, we have look at that during the review. For now, I just good amount of space. Since it is a thicker TV, which means that you can use fairly stout worry about there being enough room for do a flush-mount job on this TV, getting And as long as I'm looking at it, I'm that would be an ATSC 3.0 tuner, as you would now that we've got the feet on, let's go going the wrong direction. Oh dude, are you all right? Did you bruise listening, Hisense--um, I understand why you have and I think that's fine for up top, but, you know, now. It would really help if this handle opposed to vertical. I think I said horizontal top, but horizontal would be better down at the of pressure just on your index finger there. [Laughter] --careful. So, let's just kind if we align this with the top of the TV, so much smaller. We'll go ahead and put it down size of a 65-inch TV. Obviously, you would need a is well larger than a 65-inch TV. And for anyone big? There's no way that, uh, this is not going to I'm here to tell you it's not as overwhelming used to it faster than you might think. Is it a yeah, I think so. Like, if you just put this in that people see when they walk into your house, projector and a screen for your dedicated home for entertainment and watching TV, this works out up onto the cabinet in the first place. Careful, get the, um, stool to get all the plastic off. I stripped all the plastic off of this thing before get it into place that I kind of forgot about stool, and we're going to peel all the plastic there for you too. It looks insane on my cabinet. Alright, so the energy guide sticker says that cost. That is based on this thing being not going to be in ECO mode. The ECO mode caps uh, turn this thing up to torch level. Although, probably not hurting to pay your electric bill--I That's one layer. Dear planet, we're sorry. Yeah, the --crazy. I actually think they went through a side speakers. Um, they definitely wanted the but they didn't want to go like Sony strip of speakers on the edges of the TV, and I it's kind of a &quot;you're screwed if you do, you're complain that the speakers make everything more outfitted with, like, a really serious audio That's why I'm always talking about, like, design so you really have to just decide what's the most we got all the, the little film off, [Applause] What do you think? I think it's pretty good. suffocate [Music] yourself. Hi, we're just I just... I want to turn it on so bad. In just um, but we're going to take a quick pause and see you in a second. And I'm curious about that this is, you know, um, this is, I think, and we're getting none of that on this TV. Um, and going into a dedicated room where you can control it is so powerfully bright that it's not going but that is definitely going to be something Alright, plugging it in, and if, uh, experience on. There we go. Now we've got some setup to do, full-on NBA Championship Edition! Wow, huh? That's impressive. You only really see that not like you're going to see that every time right? We're going to compare the 65 to the 110 in end up operating both TVs, so we're just going to and for your convenience, we're going to do, uh, Boom! The old man--what are you trying to tell me? look at the difference in the color saturation you get down at an angle, like, the 110 is so much gloss--the gloss adds luster, yeah, um, to this yeah, there's way more contrast in the UX. Now, above this that would be closer to the UX, but two. Crazy that the shop link is lingering so much no, no--you--that's hilarious. I think it's so you haven't seen anything yet, so at least the --two. Oh my gosh, look at the difference in I'll break it in, but I'm not--I'm so we can't get out of here until I do some It's huge. We knew that already. Uh, I like the make it a nightmare to shoot in here. Um, but going to work in rooms where you've got natural so I'm a little bit concerned about that. Uh, an elaborate speaker system, I was hoping for I am going to break it in--uh, speakers I'm going to give it a good run, and then we'll get it out of the box, and you're thinking, &quot;Boy, was expecting more sound,&quot; so was I. But we still and again, let's wait for the review until we the picture quality? Well, I mean, I don't have uh, the 65-inch U7. It's a much more advanced TV. backlighting. It is capable of getting silly see just how bright it gets. Uh, but the contrast uh, does great black levels, right? Um, we do Um, but if any Hisense TV is going so we'll be taking a really close look at that. notice in one of the reels that we watched so we might have to do some adjustment on this spending that much money, you might want to honestly. Uh, but again, we'll test Um, 100% solid build quality, though it is at least from the exterior, right? Uh, and so I great time to do it because you will not want to see it in your feed. Slap this video with a like and what you don't like, but it helps the channel That's it for now, folks. I can't wait to see here's two other videos I think you might First off, it's huge--I mean, that... wow phlegm.