A Most Profound Guided Exercise 12 November 2023 [Mooji] Om. Namaste. Some faces I've not seen for some time, Well, it's nice to see everyone, of course. I never have in my mind that, somehow, I could rely upon the next day whatever that might be. I'm saying this, because each time to sit with you, to sit together, I would feel, What if it's the last time? It doesn't feel strange to me to say, What if the only time that we really have, And looking throughout, I've only ever known now. I've never experienced tomorrow. But I'm saying this because ... To invite you What if all the opportunity And I don't know but the time is now. What I feel is in my heart to share with you, it is not personal. There's no end to the personal journey. It is That which is common And what I have come to feel to move beyond the limited field Now, I know, and it might seem as though, But it is not true. It will only seem not constant if it is being watched from It is the person that is not constant. So, really, the invitation is to to see from the true place, because no state of personhood is reliable. And to come to that place because in that place you have no ambition, it's the flawless place of pure Consciousness. So our sangha has reached a certain place, where I say that what is being shared now, could not have been shared three years ago, or five or ten years ago. Maybe the whole sangha And the evolution Our path is not a creative path, in which some will feel, It's universal. Universal consciousness. Even to say it is available is not quite true. So I don't know how many people understand, in the heart, Because of this, I have really not gone into relating to people at a personal level, or even the mind stuff that's coming. You cannot afford to give so much attention because it is not stable! If you have been walking this path, you must transcend that. You must have the discipline, the clarity, to know not to feed your mind Because it will always ... The belly of the person can never be full! It is never fulfilled! So, I hope we're on good ground. And so, I would just like to check how many people are finding the commitment to freedom, You don't have to put your hand up It must be true for you. OK. [indicates to pass the mic to a questioner] [Questioner] I feel to share honestly that and that I cannot confirm my true place. [Mooji] Yes. it must be something beyond the person Slowly. Slow down. We're not in a hurry. If your seeing is true, all of us feed. You say that, very, very ongoingly, that my mind takes personal shape We're going to do an exercise today of this kind of observation and made use of in the sangha. And the power of it, It's not a one-off exercise, So, you can see that, this movement of the person-mind It's OK, it's OK; you see it. What's important is that, I'm asking, Is that also shaking? Anybody can check, right now. What's seeing that That which is seeing the personal mind, Is it shaking? [Mooji] You see, but you're not persistent. You get a bit lazy. because years and years of conditioning support laziness for this looking. Something doesn't want to look! 'I'd rather build a spaceship in my backyard [You'd rather do that] He said, 'Wow, how can it be so strong!' This mind is like ... Do you know why? Actually, it's not a big deal, but out of the force of habit, erratic. And it's never been questioned. Mostly, it's been co-operated with. Because no one taught us that ... Do you know why it goes on? Because it goes by the name of 'I' - 'me', also. 'I just can't concentrate.' Who is speaking! Who is speaking? The ghost in your head called 'you'! And it doesn't necessarily say, 'You'. John, Margaret and Phillip, But it feels like It's not the 'I am' that's speaking. It is the limited self that is speaking. And you know what? All over the world! He is the tenant all over the world! In every group he's the same, it's the person! So, I don't tell you, fight it. I say, learn to observe! And we are going to to show you what observing feels like. And you're going to see that many of you have done already, to see that And, at least, you find out something and the something you find out is that, even against your will, 'Tomato sauce', 'Hot dog', 'Holiday', 'Email'. He is there. I said, Just sit. 'Email.' [mimes tapping keyboard] And it's very irritating! But at least you're feeling it! And seeing that you have a choice! But you must exercise that choice having some discipline and courage, And you will transcend it! [Q.] I feel the exercise you are giving recently [Q.] but I need to persist. [Q.] I set an alarm clock, [Q.] you did during the retreat ... [M.] I'm not going to hit anybody with it. [Q.] It's really helping, [Q.] 'Come back', 'Come back'. Yes. [M.] Some people sit for half an hour. They say, 'Babaji, can I sit a bit more?' I said, Of course. No, not all your life! Why? Because it may be the most painful. You keep looking at the clock. It's the longest five minutes Like the clock is going backwards. Because your mind is giving you a hard ride! And then if you finally find... 'Ahh! Phew!' You want to go have a cup of tea, The mind wants to be paid But soon afterwards, you can't wait to go back! And you go back. Why? And all I say is, you persist and persist. And it doesn't matter how disloyal ... Because we have To be loyal to your partner, to your job ... But to your friends But to your Self? No. Now you're training it to be. Don't worry about whether he's loyal or not. But you bring your attention, and you sit. And it doesn't matter how many times you drift. If you fall off the horse, get back on. Somebody says, 'But the horse is too high'. OK, we give you a pony. You fall off again. Whatever it is, we sit. [laughter] [Mooji] Now it's time. Now it's time. So, we're going to do ten minutes. When you hear this, like that, it just really means, stay empty! Because occasionally, And then you're going to find the head dropping, [mimics nodding off to sleep] when you've been asleep eight hours. So you will hear again, like this, And sometimes I will say something, Are we good? OK. So we'll start with the bell. And then we will stop. Like that. I'm reminding that the purpose is [M.] Does everybody understand that? [Mooji] And just be empty. Don't create a picture of emptiness. Empty. Naked. Emptiness. Your mind is going to beautiful sayings and aphorisms. A beautiful slice of cake, and all kind of stuff. You say, 'Wow, the mind is so busy But not now. And just learn to stay. Refuse the invitations of the mind. And just keep coming back. This. This thing that I'll offer today is the most great, OK. [Mooji rings the bell] [long silence] Whatever pictures come to the mind, You cannot stop them from coming. But stay only as the pure awareness, It's simple. We're not going anywhere. No journey. [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji clacks the sticks] No content. No pictures. [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji clacks the sticks] Don't follow the mind. Stay empty. Awareness only. No content. [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji clacks the sticks] Beyond enjoying or not enjoying. Just keep coming back. Empty awareness. Stay upright! [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji clacks the sticks] Any feeling of sleepiness It's just a play of distractedness. Awareness only. [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji rings the bell] OK. Was it difficult? [M.] Move about a little bit. Five minutes, with open eyes. Om [long silence] Awareness eyes only. Eyes open. No thinking. No identity. No demonstration. No mind. [Mooji rings the bell] [silence] Om Copyright 2023 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.