I can fight 10 of you Japanese soldiers. Give me 10. All of you, listen carefully and go up together to fight him. Hey, Zhiman, bullying more and less means nothing. Hahaha, everyone heard it just now. You are alone. If you want to fight ten of them, I will make it happen. Don't be afraid to fight them. The more people there are, the more you have to take the initiative. Only in this way can you win by holding their noses. Hmm, well said, come on. Hey , fight well, do n't run away . Well, well, well, Nanjing. Many of you have just arrived here and don't know the rules in our prison. This is not a prison , but a competition ground. Starting from tomorrow, we will compete here every day. If any of you wins, you will be qualified to follow. If our imperial army can beat me, I will let him out, including you. Who dares to fight with me? Who dares to fight the wild wolf ? No one dares to fight me. Come on, does anyone dare to fight with me? No one dares to fight the wild wolf. If I fight the wild wolf , then I, the wild wolf, win. Boy, don't panic. I'm here to meet you. Open the door. The game starts with you. I've been working at the dock for 20 years. I 'm throwing you like a sandbag. Experience. The wild wolf wins in this game. Good, good. Okay, okay, okay , what do you think of this show I arranged for you? It's enjoyable . But I want to see Wuying Mall even more. Hey, hey, hey, I think the same as you. Mr. Xuan, hand over Wuying. Hey, release the crow flies so fast. Click on it. You all listen. This New Fourth Army is very capable of defeating Kong Jun. If you can defeat him, there will be a big reward. Hey, boss, boss , you understand. We can't defeat the guy named Han and we won't take it out on his people. Yes, I'll do it. Come on , boss , come on, you bitch and traitor. The game has started so powerfully. Wuying can beat this guy in two seconds. I hope he beats everyone. Finally, let me beat him to death with my own hands. Hahaha. Hahaha . Beat, beat , beat , beat, boss. How about it, boss , boss , boss, boss, you are all listening to me. You are pointing out who dares to take action if he is knocked out. This is his fate. Iron- headed boss, boss, wake up, don't, boss. You played brilliantly. Every time you come on the stage. I will come over to support you. Remember, you have to live well because you must die in my hands in the end. Hahahaha. That's it for today's game. Let's continue playing well tomorrow. Fight , fight, fight, fight, fight, fight . Beat him , beat him, beat him to death, beat him to death, beat him to death, beat him to death, beat him to death, beat him to death, beat him to death, beat him to death , beat him to death, beat him to death , hit him hard, beat him hard, wow, wow, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good, good. Two , good results, next game , hey, oh , oh , so good, so good, so good, so good, so good, so good. Du Jiangang defeated Du Jiuling Hanjiang in this game. Wild Wolf and the four of them are the winners of these two days. In the final, they will compete. Wait a minute for us. Use lots to decide who is whose opponent. Stand still. I advise you to watch and let them kill each other. Hahahaha. Try it . Hey Mr. Shady , what will be the result of Wuying versus Du Jiangang ? Hahahaha. Wuying will have a good show tomorrow. Your opponent is very powerful. I want to see how you were killed by others hahahahahahahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh It's intense. I also want to see the warriors being really dangerous. Hahaha. Han Jiang won the first game of today's semi-finals. The next game will be the second game. You Wuying will face Du Jiangang . Young man, you must kill more Japs after you go out. Mr. Du , don't worry. I will definitely kill more Japanese when I get out. Hey , what do you mean by that? Hahahaha, I want to give you a ride. Mr. Tonglang, we have agreed that you must not show mercy. Hahaha, you will do better than me when you get out. What are you looking at ? Listen to me. Let's go. This Wu Ying is definitely not Du Jiangang's opponent. The game has begun to degenerate into brothers. Why are you beasts ? You are too much. You are overestimating your own capabilities. It is so inhumane. Is it a human being? Is it a human being? You all see it. This is what happens when you go against the Imperial Army. If anyone dares to imitate him, he will be doomed. Today is the most exciting final match. The two sides facing each other are Wuying Hanjiang. The winner of both of you will be qualified to compete with the Wing Post or the Shady Post. The game begins. You hug you. die , get him on, stop , come on, arrest the Korean traitor, arrest him quickly, you are Xia Yunfeng , yes, I am Xia Yunfeng , Baga , go tell Mr. Jiu Shan, we have caught the traitor in the Black Dragon Society. Hey, report Major, he has been caught . I have informed Mr. Jiu Shan about the traitor in the Black Dragon Society. Why did Mr. Jiu Shan say that he wanted me to take this Xia Yunfeng into custody? Go to the Narita warehouse and take him away right away. Hey, take him away. Hey , let's go, let's go. Wait , I'm going to go. What are you going to do? I'm going to collect the reward. Well, this person was exposed because of me. I've made a contribution to you. Shouldn't I receive the reward? How dare you, a pig-headed man , come forward to ask for help from Hongjun ? Actually, I already knew that he was from the Black Dragon Society , so I tore off his sleeves to expose him. And I also know many secrets of the Black Dragon Society. Are you afraid that I will leak the secret if you don't let me go ? Wuying, you must know that if our imperial army wants to kill you, it is as easy as crushing an ant to death. Will we be afraid of you? Hei Mulong, you are just a bastard, hahahahahahahahahahaha Haha, no, I will make your death embarrassing. Take him away. Hey, let's go. Oh , I do. You can go out if you want , but there is one condition. As long as you can defeat the shady young people, I will definitely let you go. Wei Ying , I'll wait for this. I have been waiting for a long time. Today I will kill you with my own hands . Heimuo , I think your memory is not very good. You have forgotten how our master and our brother Lu knocked you off the cliff. Today I will let you die again. Don't blame me for not giving it to you. If you have a chance , go to hell , yeah , yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah , yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah , yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah , yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, in the moon here, I'm fighting so beautifully, so pretty, catch me quickly, don't move, don't touch the shady army's red saddle, I've won, let me out , you want out? You beat me first and then I let you out. Talking means nothing. Shameless. I have the final say. Let us out. Brothers, get out. The little devils won't let us out. They never say anything . Brothers, fight with them today. Fight hard with them . Kill one, count one, kill two. We have made a profit . Good brothers, Wuying is right. Let's fight with them . Fight with them. Let's rush. Come out quickly. Brothers, Major. There are too many of them. We'd better retreat first. Come on , let's go. Cum first, come on, brothers, come out and come on. Come on , you guys must not let go. Girl , stinky brother, I 'm exhausted. Girl, I'm not going to die that easily. Come on, you guys, look at the situation. Xia Yufengpiao, why hasn't the shadow come out yet ? What? Stop asking. The plan went wrong. In this reincarnation, you go and save Yufeng's second-in-command, Cai Biao. You, Liu Fei, and the others are all gathered together, ready to respond to them at any time. Good Lord Jiushan, I brought this Xia Yunfeng to you. Masao Takeuchi. No, no, no , I should call you Xia Yunfeng. Didn't you expect that we meet again ? In the words of you Chinese, this is called the sky net . You have to go back. You dare to speak harshly at the moment. Ishihiko-kun, thank you for your hard work. Please go back and thank Major Akasaka and Major Kuroki for my farewell . What should I do with you? It's up to you . I wanted to cut you into pieces. After thinking about it carefully, you are also a good opponent. I decided to be merciful and give you a good time. I will cut your head off. Our Black Dragon Association will never allow traitors to exist. There is so much nonsense. If you want to do something, hurry up . Hey , ah , ah, ah, hum. Who do I think you are? It turns out that I didn't kill my defeated general last time. You dare to come and die today. Last time, there was no winner. This time, I will show you what real Chinese Kung Fu is. Don't talk nonsense with him and kill this bastard. Okay , ah , ah, ah , ah , ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, Xue Zi, you came just in time. He is a traitor. Kill him. Hum, none of the three of them can escape. Kill him, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah ! Damn traitor, please understand that I am an upright Chinese , not a traitor . Chinese, oh, oh, oh, let him go. The enemy is coming. Prepare for battle. The village entrance of Cross Shop is in front of us. Prepare to attack. Huang Xie's army will go up first . Mulan, the rear of our palace, will wait . This area should be the mountain pass behind the cross slope. We will ambush here in a moment . When the New Fourth Army evacuates here, we will catch them off guard and open fire. Captain Suzuki, Major, and the others have already opened fire. This is correct. This is where we are. I'll cut a way out, hey, come here , heroes, give me the inside story, David , there's no one here, I know where they are, come with me, I want to capture that man alive, you hurry up and lead the troops to support the mausoleum, they hurry up, hurry up , you guys. Come with me, let's attack the crossroads now, go, stop, stop , stop, stop , stop , stop, stop, stop , stop, don't run, Jiang Xiaoyu , you beast, come out for me, get out of here , brother Cai , hey, you, you despicable little devil, I, you. I'm going to send you to the west today , hey , hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, here's another one, Captain Suzuki. Captain Suzuki Captain Suzuki reported to the chief that we did not catch up to Bai San and the Eight Brothers. Although we occupied the Cross Shop , we still let these people escape. Major, Major , Major, Major, Major, Major Mausoleum, Tower of David , Haruko Haruko, took Kawako back. Hi . He was buried lavishly. Hi , someone set fire to this village. Hi Bai 3. I will kill you today to avenge my brother. Okay, go to hell.