- I love to cook Pot au which is a boiled beef dinner, we have a Vietnamese friend a type of Hanoi soup. And this is very filling, I mean the whole thing The most important part of it, however, is to have a great stock. And that's what we're going to have here. By using oxtail, you know, and beef bone and beef shank, all of And it's very important What we do, we drop this into It's important to have cold water in this. And what happens is that the scum come to of the top, is gonna tartlet like 20 What you have to do is really to skim it. And this, as you can see, which has been removed to and boil it slowly. If you don't boil it slowly, if you boil it too fast, what will happen is that the mixture that is the fat come to it will combine the fat and And you're going to have a So it's important that it Then the special flavoring that we are floating on top here is this. And it's quite interesting And it is actually shallots I have start anise and cinnamon. And what we do here is to tartlet pieces, a large piece of ginger like and you put it to burn, you it's really charred there all over. And I have it here. This is what we put in the stock with the start anise and the cinnamon, and that really not only but flavor it also. So the stock is important. After it's been cooking long we have to strain it. And that's an important part. Also notice what I have on top here. I have paper towel. Paper towel is finer than any towel. I wet it, put it in there. And you wanna strain this on top first. There is some of the meat, of course. The meat that you have in there, you want to retrieve some I have a piece of the oxtail you know, and I have more than that, but just to show you this, and So the stock will come here. And as you see, it's nice and it go right through the paper towel. Now you see what happened. If there is any fat in it, the fat will start to the top and will come last at the end. So just before the end, you wanna remove this and tartlet it away so it's nice and clear and transparent. Even without the clarification. There is a clarification is a process by which you clarify stock. And here we don't do that. We just have it a clear, That's what we have here. And that's what basically what you want. So the stock is the most I leave that here and now with that stock, of course, what we have, is the garnish first, the meat, I haven't but that meat have to You know, you remove any fat out of it. You see it should fall apart cooking for a number of hours, you know, like three hours, three, three, and a half hours slowly. So you wanna remove the meat and this is the shank. So it should be quite moist And you can even remove the which is also going to This is added again, other And so this is base that I that total meal you know, in itself. So with this, we have different type of garnish and vegetable serving with it. We have rice stick here. I have bean sprout, We have Thai pepper, we have a red onion, we have cilantro coriander, scallion, Napa cabbage, lime. You know, so the first thing that we do, I wanna cook this into bowling water here, and those rice stick, It's interesting because you you know, for about 15, 20 minutes. But I do them in bowling It's fine too. And with this now, all of the different that we are going to have, one of the most important of course, is the nuoc mam what the which is the fish sauce. So you know, which you have all of the dish that you have. Then we have lime. You know, the lime is at the end. Now cut it into wedge like this. That will be part of it. Of course, it makes a to have all of that stuff. We have the bean sprout, as I say, those bean sprout have been blanched and some people remove the end of it, but I don't find it necessary. Just blanch it two or three minute, that is in boiling water. Now we have, of course the cilantro, so-called coriander So, you know, not only is it very good and a complete meal and it is also very colorful. Now scallion, red onion, all of that stuff is going to be used. Maybe you'll remove some of the You know, I love to do those type of dish or those type of meal, you know, because not only is it colorful, but it's really satisfying. I mean, the winter type of food that we have here. Slice red onion. Slice it very, very thin because you know, in top of the soup here. So we have that again, I have the red pepper, the hot pepper. I have some cut here this is really hot. You know, those, I mean, you can put a couple there but they are very hot. And that basically all of our garnish that we put in the soup. Now, let's see if my rice They are here. I'll put them in that bowl right here. If they stick a little bit together, you can run them under cold water. Bring that (indistinct) here. I want to use them right away. So I'll put them in that bowl. Here we are. And now I wanna bring that in soup finished. You know, when we are maybe what we want to do here This is, you know, one portion at the time we This one is really large, but basically I remember So we want to put the noodle here. And I have another ingredient here, which I left on the tartlet, And that cabbage, you know, you shred it coarsely and you can put another type of cabbage, of course, but the Napa That will go on top. And You know, the hot stock So now basically you bring your hot stock. We serve that. You see how clear it is, beautiful on top. This would really be a large portion, but we are very generous at my house. So as I said, this is We serve it here. You can put a little the red onion, you know, the scallion and so forth. And of course at the last moment, you press your lime on top. Always put a little bit and this is a whole meal in itself. And with this, what we are going to do, is a type of oriental salad, also done with cabbage. Another type of cabbage here, what I have is a savoy cabbage, one which is the curly one. This is a bit tougher as cabbage. To do a salad, What we do that central rib, you Then you could roll that to cut this into a fine shredded. Now often people blanch this. I find that it's not really If I have a whole bunch here, so you have the time to macerate it. And the best way to do it is And I have a whole array Because in French cooking, we don't really use much bottle, but in Oriental cooking I have some oyster sauce I have soy sauce, a bit of Tabasco, you know, and rice vinegar. This is gonna to be the with of course, a dash of sugar, garlic, and I have shredded carrot, a bit in a type of oriental cole slaw. If you want to give, also coloring in it, then we into the plastic bag. You know, it doesn't mess up and it is the best way you can close it and really ingredient together, to make the sauce. And this of course should marinade or macerate for a you know, and as I said, you I mean you have a whole array of different type of bottle that you can choose from when you do oriental cooking and you can use it anyway. In America, we use mostly But there you have sesame oil hoisin sauce, fish sauce, hot sauce, and so forth. And all of that, you know, it a great addition to because when you want to use it, it's there and you can create sauces and you can create a Now to serve our salad here, all you have to do is you know, right there. As I say, you know, if it marinate for two or three hours, then that salad is going to should be, really, if you can put little pieces Maybe little slivered just to give a bit of and that crispiness and that tartlet is going to go And now the dessert. We are going to do a very french dessert. And the french dessert because in Vietnam very often because of they do use bread, French bread, you know, baguette. They use wine very often with meal and they do French dessert. What we are going to do here, is a little tartlet with banana. And for that first, and very easy. We're going to do it Very easy dough, with half a cup of flour. We use three tablespoonful of butter, and maybe a teaspoon Then a little pinch of And then we mix that together for a few seconds until the and all of the butter is incorporated. Then we put our milk and I have about a See whether it's enough. It depend also on the moisture in the air, you know. See that form a ball here. It's fine. So this is a really small going to do here, just enough for our dessert. So I have here, the dough You don't wanna work it out too much. Otherwise you're going which is the part of the which give you a elasticity, huh? But this is the type of sweet, not really sweet dough. But I mean a dough that I'm going to actually roll directly between plastic wrap an easy dough to do and you She is good. Okay. So we have the dough on I have not worked the dough too much. I haven't developed the I can use it right away. So I put another piece on top like this. I can practically press And I use a pastry roller here. And you know if you want the dough cold, you could actually just roll it this way and put it like that in it'd be perfectly fine. So this is pretty thinly rolled, you know, maybe 16 of an inch or whatever. So we have it here. And with that, we are that is our mold, that And I have some nice one, as you see here. Those are non stick. You know, nice tartlet, what we call tartlet is the round one. If they are oval, we call it bucket. Bucket means little boat, you know? So this is the round tartlet. We're going to do four for our menu and I'm gonna put them Here is what you do and remove of course that from the top, turn that here to put it Then I may wanna press no maybe use this, maybe to press that into it, before I remove that thing. If the dough is rested a little bit, my dough is really soft here. It probably would help a bit, but it's fine. I can still use a bit of inside if I want. Or if you see it stick I may use a little bit of one way or the other, I'm going to cut it either with with your roller so that Now, look what happened here. You know, I did half a cup of flour. And even though the calorie to that half a cup of flour, I have at least half of the but I could do more, but there is no way that you can do the exact amount of dough when you do buckets. So maybe I'll use my hand in the corner here so the side of the mold, you And what we want to do now on so that the dough hold its Sometime there is little air press out, you know? So there is different way of doing this. What we can do is to and put them in it and press it. You know, now I can cook it this way. I can do another one this way upside down, you know, so another way I'm going And of course, we put that on top. Those little gravel, often You can use any of those, but if you live by the beach or you have little gravel like that, you can have them for free. And it's heavy enough to but can do here is to fold And after in little triangle, cut the end of it and fringe the end of the paper This is the classic way of in the middle of this, I can do it again with this. And now the weight on top, In that case here, we are putting those little white pebbles, which are heavy, you know, and this is going to go 12 minute until the dough set At that point, it can be removed. And I have one here which has been done. You can see, I did this So you remove the whole This one is done this way And those here and now you continue browning them a And that can be served that is you can fill and that set in our case here, what we want to do. In addition in the Now the pastry cream, we are going to use one egg yolk which I have here, I break it. I could actually use the whole eggs, but you have to realize we used to do cream with that. And we used to put three egg yolk per cup, per cup of milk, or per cup you know, two tablespoons and about a tablespoon of corn starch here that I put in there. So this is a pastry cream. The pastry cream is going to be different than the custard cream. The custard cream doesn't And the custard cream without the starch you have to be very careful. If it goes above 180 degree, you have scrambled eggs. In our case here, I have a cup of milk and I could if I wanted to cut more. So I put a little bit of then add it back to it. And that should come to a boil. Now I want to pick up all of it here. And now I wanna bring that to a boil, right on top of the stove. My milk was hot and you see what you have to It's going to start So you use your whisk this You see it in front and to drive it in the corner, you know. It's coming to a boil now, and you'll see it will thicken. So it come to a strong boil and there the eggs doesn't curdle. Why does the egg doesn't curdle? Because I have starch, starch will stabilize the egg and prevent curdling. Now it come to a strong boil. It's thickened. You can see, and now basically it's ready. So it's ready. We put it in there. It'll of course thicken much more by the time it's cold. I cover it with a piece of plastic wrap so that it doesn't form a crust on top. You push it directly And that goes into the refrigerator, I have another one which is cold here. And now we are ready You see it's thickened here. And I have my little tart here, my little shell cook, and I have a beautiful with some edible flowers So this are going to go directly in there and be filled up with the pastry cream, which now is cold, you know. Remember, as I say that the pastry cream is relatively much less calorie I have a cup of milk, regular milk, but I could have used a if I wanted to, or as I said before, you could even use it without anything. As you can see, also I have with one cup. So you could probably want to arrange them nicely. Now I have a banana here. One banana is probably and I want to cut it in there. You can cut it European, and of course you could use any type of fruit that that classic type of thing. I could, even if I wanted if I'm going to leave that for a while, I'll put lemon juice, so it We want to put our banana five slice per person, you know. Here we are, I love And we gonna glaze that the apricot sauce is The best possible quality that you strain, you And this is diluted with kirsch being a cherry Brandy so that it has a nice, smooth thing. And we want to glaze it Don't worry if some of It's nice and appetizing. You could do it even directly about three quarter of a We could even decorate That with date, rather, we have dates here and a little bit of to finish our dish and give Some zap here and here we are Vietnamese meal. Our banana tartlet there makes such a beautiful And it goes very well together. Remember that the soup that we We do something in French which is a boiled beef with carrot and cabbage and all kind potato in it. And it's a little bit The importance again, very strong, stock, very clear defatted. So it very good and meat also in it. Now we have all of the different garnish. You can take as much as you want. Some want a lot of pepper, like it hot. I like it medium to hot with that. Of course, we have that oriental salad, what I call oriental salad. Another type of, of You know, it's very good for you. Season with the oriental type of bottle. The dessert, which is very French, but very tasty and rich, you know, is going to go well with it which is relatively light, rather than wine, maybe we should have a beer I have Ching Tao, you know, and here Strasbourg Boz a beer from Elza, the north east part of France, a bit smokey, like, and that's going to go so I enjoyed making it. If it's a cold winter today, you know, you should try that meal and you are going to love it. I enjoyed making it for you. Happy cooking!