We see Saudi Arabia ...where women wear veils and But suddenly there was He says he wants to reform the country. ...and tourists will soon be welcome. The country has to become At the same time, One wrong word can have In this year of changes, ...and follow the developments on the Are they just empty promises, For years, Saudi Arabia ...but with oil revenues decreasing... ...crown prince Bin Salman He wants to open the country up I'm taking a sneak preview. This place is cursed, Allah wanted to punish the Thamudi, ...for their barbaric ways, The area was ravaged Muslims aren't allowed to visit The Saudi government wants people The green light will need to be given Luxurious tents have already been set up These changes are driven 70% of the population This demographic group increasingly These guys are taking a big risk Out on the streets, we're accompanied He takes pictures for his report. The government keeps a check The guys disappear in traffic again. They remain anonymous. Saudi Arabia's new strong man, ...says he feels connected MbS, as he's called, says he wants The feared religious police that checks ...is restrained, In Jeddah, the gateway to Saudi Arabia... ...the fight for reforms has been fought Abeer Abu Suleiman She wants to receive official permission While Abeer awaits official permission, Young guides who received permission The new freedoms for women have Women who profit from it, like Farah A lot of resistance ...from clergymen, the government, Steps are being made, ...it's crucial that you know Malik Nejer teaches me He provokes the authorities every day. For the Saudis, The show exposes Most of all, Malik lets his animated Farah ignores all the comments she gets ...or goes out without a guardian. She is willing to give me We meet somewhere, so that I can The hai'a, the feared religious police, ...but this doesn't mean For a while, I'm afraid ...but she won't let the men One would think that more women would ...now that the hai'a is powerless. But the ancient Islamic regulations The shopping mall is slowly emptying out. One of them is willing to talk, but we We're being watched too closely for that. He'd rather receive me I'm invited to visit him, Outside of the cities, Many supporters of al-hai'a For Waleed, the organisation is Waleed fanatically clings to the demands ...such as the mandatory wearing The walls in this country Conservatism on one side, Cafes and restaurants have separate There are exceptions, She finds it difficult to escape from She managed to get She prefers to show tourists around. The only question is how she will Young Saudis have their own rituals They look for ways He feels the duty to compel young people He has come up with a special plan The message is clear. Waleed wants Right after I've left, Waleed puts I see that he has This is the conservatism Anybody who opposes it, will be resisted. With his animations, Malik helped erode But where is the limit? To survive in this country, it's crucial Malik's fear is justified. A few weeks later, there's an example Just before the prohibition ...a couple of activists who fought They're accused It causes a lot of confusion. What is the direction of the reforms? It's under these circumstances The mood in the country ...that it isn't clear how far we can go Farah hopes that the changes And that she will have the same Caught between tradition ...Farah tries to find her way. She has ...until the royal family intervened. It's clear that openness in Saudi Arabia The pride of Saudi Arabia It's fast, nimble, The Saudis admire this animal to no end. This horse has always been linked Many of them have their Every year, they gather at the largest This is a party for the elite. Security is taken up a few notches, He was once the crown prince. He wants to win, and if he doesn't, No one knows how many princes It's estimated The House of Saud reigns supreme. Many of the most important jobs Prince Bin Nayef is governor Questions are not allowed. The royal They have a firm grip on the most Gigantic amounts of it had been found ...under the Arabian peninsula's Unlike their neighbouring countries, the But a stubborn American geologist, His idea was to drill deeper. I see that Alina is taken aback. She just admitted that a lot of the How much, is a secret. Aramco is the most profitable company It is worth almost two trillion dollars. The oil discovery also meant that They took up residence ...together with Saudi employees. Alina is quite frank, and so For years, a veil of secrecy Many Saudis considered this place Men and women mingled freely here. The strictly Islamic society We have to hide our camera. From 1933 onwards, the Americans This enabled the countries ...when they needed each other most. After 1945, America needed lots of oil. ...and the country's founder, ...saw it as an opportunity The Saudis agreed ...but they would decide The discovery of oil led And most of it ended up here, Ever since the founding of Saudi Arabia, We're lucky. ...sees one of the truly wealthy walk by: The prince is extremely friendly... ...but as soon as we talk And he doesn't want to talk I feel that we need to be careful. King Salman's car hasn't been sold. Fortunately, Satam allows me to get in. He is willing to bring me closer. We see King Salman's country house One of the locals ...is willing to bring me closer Only later do I find out how powerful Not only is this small city ...but it's also here that in the 18th ...between Muhammad ibn Saud and This alliance found massive support, The royal House of Saud rose to power ...the ultra-orthodox Islamic doctrine To my surprise, Mansour is the head Without asking permission, he takes me ...the religious reformer who introduced He said that those ...could even be fought with violence. These ideas were taken up ...to spread death and destruction. My visit to the mosque The ideology that has been exported, ...leading to violence in other places, Mansour wants to rectify this image. The brewing fundamentalism ...first damaged As a protest against foreign influences ...such as Aramco's Little America, Mecca, the Saudi holy place, is attacked I travel to Jeddah ...who saw it happen up close, The Saudi King was shocked. His power rested on the alliance ...but resistance had grown. The attackers were executed, and he had Wahhabism needed to be followed more From then on, religious conservatism Women were forced to cover their faces. Cinemas were closed, The extremism reached its apogee Not far from ...is the birthplace of the man Bin Laden's father made his money He was closely tied After oil was discovered, he was We aren't allowed to film here either. This mosque contributed to his But the effect of the sermons here... ...has changed the way Now that the country ...I'm invited by Mansour and his son, They want to distance themselves Mohammed bin Salman slams the door He says he wants to return to This makes him popular It's Friday. The family, and thus I'm asked to stay and eat with them. This is the protective ring around The question is whether it's possible Off-camera, there is clearly Even among the elite. Saleh takes me to the place He'd rather show the image For Saleh, the crown prince The government supports young people This only increases the faith in reforms. Young people are fighting ...but this is made much harder due to On 2 October 2018, journalist ...in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman But the royal family denies it. As the news is reported, I try to gauge It's not easy to survive for journalists Often, it's simply safest But Khaled Al Maeena, Khashoggi's ...is willing to take the risk and talk. The editor-in-chief He knows about the accusations Even Khashoggi's former editor-in-chief Criticism is fine, as long as it isn't Not just out of fear of retaliation... ...but also the fear of returning The only thing left to do, is to attend He tries to be proud ...but he knows his beloved crown prince From the earliest beginnings of Islam, One of the rules of Islam The pilgrims moored Its holy cities, such as Mecca ...give Saudi Arabia power I want to find out what they do with it. Samir is the mayor of Jeddah. ...and knows every alley He's the head of an important family. The king trusts them Samir breaks off the discussion He's afraid to say something Islam is the world's fastest-growing The number of pilgrims Saudi Arabia does its best Pilgrims pour into Mecca every year, During the Hajj, the great annual Planes land the rest of the year too, The smaller pilgrimage Most pilgrims save up for decades It's a high point in their lives. The pilgrims are welcomed ...and guided towards the buses These Pakistani pilgrims can afford But rentals can't come to the airport. They wait for someone They're stuck at the airport for now. Samir takes me to what he calls It's the old city palace where The founder of modern-day He had himself crowned king ...thus linking religion and politics. Samir rejects the crimes He rejects all negative images I follow the route he showed me. This is also a personal journey for me. With my background, One of the habits during a pilgrimage An ihram consists of ...held together with a belt. The idea is that ...whether you're a cleaner Our Pakistani pilgrims They're glad to get away Today I witness A mix of tension about the journey... ...and satisfaction that Mecca Going to Mecca is a sacrifice, for These men arranged a luxury car The question is, will it ever get here? Many pilgrims go to Medina first. I want to do that too and get We're even allowed to film, A sign says 'haram area', meaning Sadly, in order to film in Medina, This is my first time Medina is where the prophet Muhammad The remainders of the famous It ran from Turkey to Medina Hundreds of thousands of pilgrims Judging by his entourage, It turns out to be the Minister of Doing the Hajj is a rare opportunity. It's best to be on good terms ...because they decide I'm allowed to join the call for prayer. A side door takes me into Further into the mosque I'm surprised The union is made between the groom This country is the cradle of Islam. It gives Saudi Arabia a crucial position But the ultra-orthodox ideas I get permission to visit an important Adil al-Kalbani, the former imam He is highly regarded by the faithful Al-Kalbani is a spiritual leader ...the orthodox school of Islam... ...is a source for the ideologies He would like an open debate, Adil al-Kalbani tries to hold on ...to join the modern age. I'm getting close to Mecca when I Mecca is closed to non-Muslims. Adil al-Kalbani agrees that this He even takes it a step further: ...on the Arabian Peninsula. This attitude was the reason... ...that during a tour of ...he was denied access He has not changed his opinions What's more, he does not reject This scares me. These people are supposed to boost The imam with the reputation ...proclaims views that don't sit well I leave these ideas behind Alongside dozens of foreign pilgrims In a cave on top of this mountain... ...the prophet Muhammad had The angel Gabriel came to him The prophet stayed on this rock ...overlooking the Kaaba. They want to be in the same room After a long journey from the Red Sea ...we are here at last: Mecca. In my childhood it took on Finally I get to see it for myself. Our papers are checked constantly. In the end we get permission to film The millions of pilgrims flocking ...are accommodated in the hotels And there are more to come. In my hotel room I prepare for I will walk around the Kaaba I have a Sufi background, one of I'm taken up by the flow of people ...that velvet-clad shrine. The devotion of these pilgrims They want to absorb every second. They turn a blind eye to filming My journey is done. I saw the Kaaba pictured on I saw the rapture of the pilgrims The attraction of the holy cities gives It's a mainly conservative country. While they could be a driving force There's a long way to go ...a beacon of religious tolerance. This is the untouched Saudi Arabia. ...form the Farasan Islands. They are It's odd to travel ...not noticing the raging war As is often the case, The unspoiled Farasan Islands Only few Saudis have been there. ...at the annual festival in Riyad, visitors Here, the polished version It attracts many rich families This is the age old Saudi Arabia. Brought together in one area. Even the religious police is present. ...but not everyone supports that. The main event The newly acquired American weapons. Besides buying new weapons, ...with the West in other areas, too. The The question is how far they'll go. What about women's influence The Shura resides in the city. They are It is comprised of representatives The king himself appoints them. ...in the reforms. After months He believes free elections aren't possible The doors of the daily conference room The thirty women, that have been I'm trying to understand. It's called King Salman himself decides Lina, too, questions Lina is dependent on the appointment of ...want to stick to tradition. I travel to This part of the country is linked The hijackers that attacked the Twin Fifteen of the nineteen hijackers The villages are spread out ...many villagers come together at a Farmers head over from the In this area, It's difficult for the Saudi government Further on south, I drive over Houses are skilfully built There's a narrow road, The area is divided among local tribes. I try to contact a local farmer, A few kilometres away, I seek out A few dozen kilometres away... ...a horrible civil war has been raging much to the despair of civilians, The conflict has turned into a war ...under direction of Saudi Arabia, ...who are supported by archenemy Iran. ...the war threatens millions The war is far away from Riyadh. Not a word is said about Yemen ...crown prince Mohammad bin Salman's The plan announces the economic, It all sounds great, but once ...I want to know if these plans First, I visit Lina at the sports grounds She's willing to discuss This is the tension among the Saudi Lina doesn't want She sticks I head to the museum Not to see even more portraits I head there to get closer to the square It was the location for Locally, it is known by the irreverent Each major city has Nationwide, there are dozens In very few cases, the executions aren't Like in this case. It's an appalling practice One of the most important lawyers ...wants to clarify First, he wants to show me The death penalty, especially the public According to the lawyer, despite Reality is often distorted According to the lawyer, Another reality Saudi Arabia ...which affects I notice it in various We can only sneakily film it. The foreign workers' situation in particular Ten million out of the twenty million Several of these men The Royal House has decided The Chamber of Commerce The unemployed Mohaned He has returned to find The government wants to put him to work. He's one of the 1.3 million beneficiaries Mohaned tries to get himself Chances are, he'll still have to accept The Head of Recruiting is open I start to realise what the reforms If the plans move forward, After dozens of years working, Saudi They didn't have many rights, but now Many things remain the same... ...but the effects of the reforms I unexpectedly get a message He wants to invite me to dinner at We're joined by I'm taken to a side room. The call for an ...of Khashoggi still exists. That's the end of the discussion for New projects that have been ...like the megalomaniacal Neom. They send me north, to the plains A big plan to make a state filled The crown prince tries to keep his power, All hope is set on this project. It'll be my last trip through Saudi Arabia. I'll take what I've seen while traveling ...the despair and the poverty. Saudi Arabia sketches a future For now, all I see is desert. As long as Saudi Arabia is ...supported by spiritual leaders, ...the divide with the west will remain. But I realise that, in a country where ...every step towards freedom