- I've been deep in these documents, each of which is a piece of evidence that helps me piece together a very important question, off this 20 year bore that (bombs exploding) (guns hosts) (people screaming) But first, let me tell you what happened on August 15th, 2021. The Taliban had entered Kabul after taking over the entire country of Afghanistan. The war ended as it had begun with the Taliban in power once again. You probably remember the scenes from the Kabul airport, total chaos as Afghans But there's one guy who in all of this. This guy, Eric Prince, generously offered to help charter a plane to the price tag, $6,500 per person. That was the market price But this wasn't the first the war in Afghanistan to get rich. In fact, this was one of where this guy profited off the Afghan war and some of the ways he did So after digging through the Senate hearings, all of it, we've established a list who got crazy stupid rich - On my orders, the United strikes against Al-Qaeda and military installations of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. (disconcerting music) - Before we get into our list I want to talk about which is government contractor. - $300 hundred million - U.S. defense contractor. - Our broken system of - [Narrator] At U.S. Federal we know that a government than the dollars awarded. - Here in the United States we love the free market. (eerie music) - I'm talking about this. - So instead of having the take care of all things war, we hire a lot of private This is companies that make our weapons, feed our soldiers, build and literally fight our wars. (bomb explosion) (gun shots) Yes, we have private armies that we call security companies that basically are soldiers for hire. What this allows the government to do is post a job out there. Like we need someone to And in theory, what happens is a bunch of private companies come on how much it would And whatever company gives the best price is chosen to go build that road. It's supposed to help the Okay, so where am I going with this? What I want you to is this bidding process to go do things that the government needs, but in war time a lot of go out the window because So it's like an emergency. So instead you get a lot of situations where there The government needs something done in Afghanistan really quickly. This company could do it. Name your price. We'll give you whatever you need. - [Narrator] As a client, the U.S. government is guaranteed to have the funds to pay you And it's that very process that allowed people to take advantage of a system to let billions for dollars be poured All of this contributed to what a former Secretary of Defense call a culture of endless money inside the Pentagon. Okay, wait, before we go on, of today's video, which is better help. I've said this a bunch. I'm gonna keep saying it which is that I'm a giant I think therapy is something And specifically for me, maybe it's 'cause I I don't know, but I never got messaging that I was supposed to go to therapy, but I've been going to therapy And it has truly changed my life. Better help is a service more accessible by connecting you, if you want therapy, to a network of over 10,000 professionals and this isn't like a crisis This is real licensed done securely over the internet. If you've ever looked for a therapist, you know that it's really hard. And the thing I respect And the reason why I is because they're trying to make that an easier thing to If you don't like the therapist you find, you can easily switch to a new And Better Help allows you to in between your sessions for whatever you're going through. So I'm a giant fan of Better Help. I appreciate them sponsoring this video. They're giving you 10% if you want to try it out. There's a link in my description. Clicking that link helps and gets you started on what I really, really, really support therapy. So check it out. Thank you better help for for supporting my channel. Let's dive back into the video. Okay, now that we understand let's get to this list (eerie music) First up is Robert Stevens, the former CEO of a company It's a company that manufactures like this helicopter, the Black Hawk, they manufacture missiles, They manufacture a lot of This company gets a lot of Like in 2020 alone, this company got $75 billion worth of Pentagon contracts. I know that like when we get into billions it's really hard to like, but just to put it in perspective the entire budget of our foreign ministry the State Department totaled $44 billion for the entire state department, $44 billion and Lockheed got almost double that 90% of Lockheed's revenue comes from the federal government. Their core business, the thing that keeps them So Robert Stevens became the CEO in 2004. This was three years into And as the war intensified, And I know this because this of the compensation for to all of us. You may have to dig through like the Lockheed Martin annual meeting of stockholders but you can find it. So let's see how Robert in the two thousands. So before the war in the late nineties, the CEO of Lockheed Martin was making around $2 million a year, if you include his salary and bonus. $2 million bucks, it's a Okay, but then the war started. Lockheed started to started making more weapons to the CEO's compensation. His salary stays about the but his bonus now jumps Bringing his total compensation This guy's making $5 million bucks. War's doing pretty good for him. Not bad. Let's jump one year later, it's now 2006. (bombs exploding) (gun shots) And Robert Stevens, the brought in $18 million. Wait what? From $2 million to $5 Whoa. Robert Stevens is doing pretty darn good. Okay, but let's keep going. The year after that Robert Stevens brings in $30 million in his compensation. $30 million, sorry, $31 million. $31 million, non equity $8 million. Holy smokes. What? $30 million in compensation. I mean, if we were to like graph that, the war starts here, we're looking at something The war was a life changing the CEO of Lockheed Martin. Okay, so that's our first Let's move on to the next one. (mysterious music) A guy named Stephen Orenstein. This guy's company called in 2005 to feed U.S. To provide all the food. I mean, when this guy got the contract, I'm sure the only thing that happened is that his eyes started Since he got the contract, Supreme Foods business increased 50 fold. Over the course of six years the Defense Department to deliver food to the And it became 90% of his business. 90% of his company was providing food to troops in Afghanistan. I mean talk about winning the lottery. But remember what I said about emergency funding and contractors? Orenstein realized that he of money for the meals that And he knew that no one would notice because they were just The government contracts just kept coming, no matter how pricey his meals were. (upbeat joyful music) - There's our beef ravioli. (cash register) - Orenstein was like, dude, Like I'm a child in a Let's see how far I can take this. (upbeat disco music) Not only was he charging but then he started to create and started to win contracts And the Pentagon would just pay him a ton of money for doing no work. And what did he do? He just pocketed the cash. He got super, super rich off of this to the point where he He got put on the but eventually he took it way too far and he got caught and yes, we are now reading a called contracting to feed How did the U.S. Defense Department end up in a multi-billion I don't recommend you watch - DLA had paid Supreme about $3 billion including 1.6 billion for food and water. And 1.4 billion for - The numbers being thrown around in this hearing are insane. The Pentagon overpaid nearly a hundred million just which as one congressperson said that is an astounding amount of money. And then to put it in perspective she says that that amount would pay for nearly a hundred thousand children to have access to a head start program which is an early education But instead this taxpayer money went into Orenstein's pocket. Nice one, Steven, think of the children. Come on. So what does it look like when someone gets punished for this? Well, here we are in the people who gave all of this money without checking where it was And when they asked what happened they say things like this. - The contract management to this did not keep pace with the changes that we were - Let me translate that for you. What he was really saying paying attention because you know, war. According to this court document, Steven eventually did have But let's be honest. He got a little slap on the off the Afghan war, which Next up is this guy, Eric Prince. This is the guy we talked who was like charging $6,000 bucks to fly people out of Afghanistan. - I don't think any human and soul would support efforts to profit off of people's agony and pain, as they're trying to depart a country and fearing for their lives. - He's an ex Navy seal who and decided to start company called Blackwater. Remember what I said? Private security company This guy, trained military In fact, he describes his as &quot;trying to do for the what FedEx did for the postal service.&quot; Privatize, make more efficient, get rid of red tape, etcetera, etcetera. Kind of a scary thought, but okay. He got his first contract in 2000. It was a small contract, $204,000 to help train the Navy Then 9/11 happened. An absolute tragedy for but an incredible business opportunity for Eric Prince and The U.S. was desperate for this new kind of warfare. So they turn to Blackwater to help them. The U.S. hired Blackwater to come protect their CIA compounds or to escort VIP diplomats. But wait, let's just get something clear. What are these guys? Are they troops or like military? Technically, no, they're not, but they sure look like troops. I mean, look at these guys but really these guys are just that the government hires and and sends them to war zones like soldiers under the Hmm, but they're just security guards. So they're not like By 2007, the government over a billion dollars Let me repeat, this little a private security force, of $200,000 to help train to actually be in the war zone and getting a billion dollars worth of taxpayer money within just a few years. As you can imagine, giving to a private army might lead And in fact, in 2007, the guards in addition to Afghanistan, and they opened fire on unarmed civilians. - [Narrator] Indiscriminate shootings by Blackwater guards, leading - In a crowded public square, after a car bomb had exploded a mile away, they killed 17 Iraqis and injured 20 more. Blackwater lost their contracts. It was a huge scandal. It was another instance where And yet Eric Prince sold the Another guy who got really Oh, and those security on innocent civilians but then wait for it. They were completely Do we have any faith in humanity? Next up we've got these two guys. They're nicknamed The War Dogs. There's a movie about but I want to. - Sorry, excuse me. - Kind of an emergency. - Sorry, don't worry. I have to go first, I'm American - But really the best thing out there is this Rolling Stone article. (upbeat dance music) These guys were ages 25 and 21 when they started an ammunition company. (gun shot) They bid the pentagon and won $300 million worth of tax payer money in contracts. And they were gonna supply with guns in ammunition. I mean, this is insane. These were like early 20 year old kids. One of these guys, David was a massage therapist and then was like, hm, I'm gonna have a I'm gonna go sell $300 million worth of guns and ammunition so they can fight a war in Afghanistan. These guys got super rich off of this. And soon we're living a fancy and expensive apartments in like Miami. But what they were doing from China and then selling which is like a giant They eventually got And one of the him was sentenced So this is a rare case and then they got caught and which didn't happen to The difference is like when you don't have a lot So you can't like weasel your But what this story shows you in on this culture of endless The massage therapist before started an and got $300 million for Okay, so those are the War Dogs. Next up we have this guy, Fahim Hashimy, one of the several Afghan part of this group called In the early days of the Afghan war there was huge need for The people who got in early, helping out U.S. forces got really savvy to how the U.S. was operating. And they quickly realized that they could provide a and make a to ton of money. So Fahim started a business into like a media corporation with like TV stations and and even an airline. His company started racking in like $200 million a year There were a bunch of riding on the coattails of into the country, which Their country's been torn apart by outside superpowers for decades. Let them at least get something Next up, we have our very own Congress. Oh say can you see By the dawn's early light Nancy Pelosi and Ted Cruz aren't like arms dealers, but they can still get rich off of war. (bomb exploding) (cash register machine) - [Man] Everything is gone. - [Man] Oh my God. - Because if you're a member of Congress you can buy stocks in defense companies like Lockheed Martin, and a lot of them do. At least 47 members of Congress and their spouses hold of stocks in top defense companies. Oh, and it's not partisan. Of the 30 house members who hold stock and military contracts 20 are Republican and 16 are Democrats. It's almost split in half. I mean, let's get into the details here. Like which of the congressmen in defense companies? Good question. The winner for this year of who's getting rich a Republican from Oklahoma who owns over a million dollars in stock from defense contractors. $880,000 alone in Honeywell, which is an aerospace seems to love and notice how Especially since 2009, of new troops to Afghanistan. I mean this is a lawmaker who has to give approval when we go to war and he stands to gain if we do, but wait the conflict when you look at somebody a democratic Senator from Michigan who is a member of the which is the committee that authorizes the Pentagon's budget. Here's his financial disclosure. Hmm, he's invested in a lot of things including Raytheon Technology Corporation. Raytheon is a major government contractor for war time things. This guy gives money to the Pentagon to do war and he has invested in In July, this guy's committee voted to increase defense spending by $24 billion, which is more than president So in very direct terms this guy is voting to put That is how our system works. Here's another financial who's on a committee that deals with cyber security and protection. She holds stock in six defense companies with most of her money being Do you get it? IT contractor that she is invested in. Cyber security committee that she uses to vote to give money to the thing she's invested in. It's like, come on, ugh. (eerie music) Okay, so that's our list. And let me be clear that this of everyone who got rich. There are so many more There are so many more We will never know their names. We will never hear about them because they didn't get caught. In the end, the Pentagon spent $14 between 30% and 50% of that military contractors, companies huge compensation to the top leaders. That's like $5 trillion worth of taxpayer money going of these corporations and for what? What did we get? We now know that it didn't do much for this country and its people. 20 years later the country is falling back to where it started. But what it did do is it made these people really, really, really rich. Good for them. Okay, I'm gonna go try to not be depressed about how our democracy works. See ya. (eerie music)