This is me in the middle of crossing one It's this one. It divides China And it took me two hours to get through. This border is weird not country into two, but also because it has Until then China has promised to stay out, to let Hong Kong be highly autonomous. Hence, the border. But the government of China doesn't really want to wait until 2047. border now, making Hong Kong a proper they're doing that is this huge bridge. Yeah, I know this isn't really the best shot so here's a solution. The drone still I couldn't help but say, &quot;take a But seriously, take a look at this China has unveiled the world's largest sea crossing bridge. It's 55 kilometers, that's 34 miles, it's the longest sea crossing in the world. The bridge connects Hong Kong with Macau and mainland China. I always call this Hong Kong and China. That we want in your head that Hong Kong is part of So this bridge and a bunch of other bringing up a lot of questions of what Who does it really belong to? And what happens when you erase a it's June 4th which is the anniversary There are hundreds of thousands of people here In the history of communist China there has never been On June 4th, 1989, pro-democracy protesters were marching for the end of a single-party rule in They were then brutally massacred, hundreds were killed. &quot;The troops have been firing indiscriminately.&quot; Marking the end of movement in China. They've just turned Every year the residents of Hong Kong hold a in that massacre. This is something in recent years this vigil has become because they are feeling a new level of But wait. Isn't hong Kong already a part of China? Technically yes, Hong Kong belongs to China but you sure wouldn't think so by looking at Okay, I made it into China. I mean technically I was already in China, but now I'm like, really, in China. So how did it get like this? Britain and China fought a couple of wars over trade in the 1800s and Britain eventually took At the time this was a mainly empty rocky, group of Hong Kong's population and economy population was mainly made up of different society than mainland China revolution. One of the treaties that would be a British colony for 99 would officially expire in 1997. As that expiration date drew nearer, China and Great Britain started to talk about what Britain acknowledges that when the lease runs whole of Hong Kong will revert to China. Let's finish talking about this stuff up there. If you go up to the 69th floor in of Shenzhen, you'll find a life-size wax when the leaders from China and Great terms of handing over Hong Kong to China. And they came to this agreement that Britain would give over Hong Kong that Hong Kong would be able to retain economic system, freedom of speech these are fundamental freedoms. Freedom of religious worship, these are fundamental freedoms. And they must continue. China agreed. They said they would let them be independent and govern themselves for 50 Chinese rule. 50 years beyond 1997. And so It was called the &quot;One country, two Okay, let's head back to Hong Kong see ya So even after Hong Kong was handed back to China in stuck around. It remained exactly how it symbolic of the fact that yes, this is at the same time. Governed with its own different than China, that is in Perhaps the most overt symbol of Chinese me. It's the Chinese army. And so even barracks or do any sort of enforcement still here in the central area of the symbol of the fact that this is Chinese But these soldiers won't be confined for The borders around their barracks, as dissolving. China has committed to and for the first decade after the What you have to understand is that Hong economically productive city. In the early '90s right before the handover, this one city's economy was more than a economy and so it makes sense why China Kong happy and economically free. But then things changed. Look at the explosive development of these Chinese These are China's mega cities. These cities eventually powerhouse of China. Shenzhen, this town a perfect example of this. The place went 30,000 people to a super productive people in just a few decades. Hong Kong went from making up 27% of just 3% today. And suddenly Hong Kong, once the economic powerhouse of China and the economically relevant. And soon the incentives to respect Hong Kong's So now you begin to see a flood of Chinese influence in this city. Let's go see if we can catch the 5 o'clock news. In recent years the evening news anthem of China, playing under a promo enthusiastically participating in The message is very clear: that Hong Kong is a part On top of that, the language of the evening of China. But in Hong Kong they don't Don't they say if you want to kill a city you kill And we speak Cantonese here. They're actually some telling us that &quot;Oh, Cantonese is not Hong Kong's mother tongue.&quot; Cantonese is actually just a dialect of Chinese. The Chinese government book to teach Hong Kong children the book you see that it's more of an government, than an introduction to it. The Chinese system is the ideal type. So multi-party rivalry will makes the four points are about how bad the United Multi-party systems create government shutdowns. They're basically multi-party system like that of the really bad for the people. In 2014 China The Chinese government was trying to control in an effort to secure a pro-China This really touched a nerve for the locals because this was their promised they would stay out of. So people immediately took to the streets in protest starting here in this park. I took the taxi from my home to here on What was it like down here that night? We were in a standoffish situation. And suddenly they used tear gas. The first drop of tear gas just dropped right in front of my eyes. We were holding umbrellas, trying to prevent pepper sprays. I remember that, like, itchy painful feeling. Oh my gosh. Yeah. I saw Hong Kong people the central governments and fighting for This protest and the subsequent movement that came up around You would say, &quot;Oh, what's the point of so big, you're so small.&quot; For the record, we need to fight. We're not taking things lying down. The protest didn't change the immediately change anything in Hong Kong, but this spectacle of young people rising up to defend their rights from spark a political awakening among the paid attention. I think post-Umbrella Movement was the first time that the middle class came out and voted in droves. And voted for the opposition force. But for the first time like, you know, people sort of like us all started caring. Look at identify themselves, either as Chinese or In the early days after the hand-off, as China respected the see how Hong Kongers slowly became more themselves as Chinese. But since then, Chinese government, you can see this line Residents of Hong Kong who identify themselves as Chinese has The Umbrella Movement identity and the resistance to China responded to the Umbrella Movement with in this city. I'm standing outside the five staff members disappeared selling books that were banned in China, the corruption scandals of high-ranking throughout 2015, people who worked in this bookstore disappeared. No one really knows where they went. One of television apologizing for what he did. And confessing to his crimes. The book store has since closed down. Back here in Victoria Park these fight for democracy against China's That was once a fight that happened far away in Beijing, but as people now find themselves engaged in Resisting a much more powerful China in the struggle for their