Yes, I am wearing a shirt with a picture of my dog on it.... Hey guys, let's start with a warning. Read this, if you want. Basically, this game is scary; y-you know the deal. Welcome to Baldi's Basics in- SUSH! Well, welcome back to Baldi's basics You guys absolutely loved the first video, that I made on this, and I made it completely randomly from your suggestions. But today, is going to be annoying. I know it, because I really want to try and get those seven notes. While I was editing the previous video, I spotted loads of things that I just didn't spot for some reason, while I was playing, it was ridiculous. and I'm going to highlight them today, so If you haven't seen this yet, I definitely suggest that you go ahead and watch the previous one. I'll put it in the link in the description below. Basically, you have to find notes, solve puzzles and in a second you'll find out- Oh... Whoops... Uhh... (Dan.. wut ya do?) Baldi's angry. Sorry, I didn't mean to get it wrong... But as I was gonna say this, this is the... this is the problem that you should get wrong, because it's impossible... But, I got the easy one wrong, to be honest... LoL Yeah, he gets angry at every problem you get wrong and I'm pretty sure for the next five notes. He will... Y-You're gonna get it wrong. First up, school rules, when you follow the school rules, no running- Is he there? Yeah, err, he's there. HeHhEH No running, no faculty entering (It's entering faculty, DAN), no eating, drinking, escaping detention or no fourth wall breaks. That's to do with this, other guy, who runs around in joggers. (Principle of The Thing) I don't know what his deal is, but... He's always upset with me. Ah, these! Yes. Oh, it's sock puppet! (The wizard of stinky feet) Don't run away, DON'T RUN AWAY! Please. There he is. Oh, I thought it was coming towards me... Right, I need these. (PLaYTiM: Leet's Pleey) (Dan pews soda wit fear) No, no, no, no! I wasn't meant to do that. I wasn't meant to do that! He's gonna get me! I hate you so much. I was meant to buy one of these, and I did, and then I fired it! You know what Baldi, take me. I don't even care. Take me this time. You're beautiful. (Take me to church, do what u want:D) (Death, buzzing sound) Stupid guy. So, apparently you can buy those drinks. Which allow you to push not only Baldi, But they can push pretty much anyone else as well, including the annoying... Jump rope girl. (Playtime) (SHe WanTs ME tO jUMp ROp...) She's really frustrating; and I still can't figure out what this tape is for. I literally have no idea. Right... I'm gonna buy one of these, just in case someone comes up behind me. How do I buy it? There we go. hEHheHEe AHH! This guy... We're looking for blue doors, and I don't know what it means by him getting angrier, if you... umm... If you complete the notes. (He gets faster) 7. 0. L0L. I hear every door you open. Fantastic. Where is he? *SLAP OF DEH COUNTREH EVERYWON* There he is. Okay. There he is. Hey, buddy. Oh! Sock puppet. Playtime: Let's Play. Dan: No, NO, NO! aHhHhHhHHhHhhHh!1!!111! Can I use this now? I can't use it now. He's got me. *FiGet sPInNR* Oh man, I've just unlocked the broom... Have an iron. (?) Yeah... Notebook book! It looks like a Death Note Uhh... -3 UhHhHhHhHhHhHhHhhhHAAaAAA?!?!?!???/ I THINK HE SAID mana 1 so... (STAHP get sum HALP) Playtime: Let's play! No! Get out of here no one likes you I need to buy this soda. Thank you for the soda Oh, I forgot you can look behind you by pressing space you could look behind you and see if anyone's come in Oh is this door have a note in it? It does Wow bright 5 minus 4 is 1 2 minus 6 minus 4 and then we have this one (Quick Maths) Fantastic, he's gonna be pretty mad now. I'm fairly sure He speeds up. It sounds like he's speeding up. Anyway, I need you to get out of here. Please be gone See you later, buddy. That's a long corridor as well. Next note a minus 7 is tEN Lul, okay. We need to be super careful. Now we have no protiection From the guy. Oh wait, this is the canteen. Yes canteen canteen canteen. Give me this. I need it Could you hear how loud he is and how fast? Oh my goodness. He's so fast. Only need two more notes Oh, he's that he's there. He's there. I need to push him down this alleyway because this is a far one. Come here buddy. BahH1!11 Yeah, see you later. Good. Bye He's GoING, he's going ma boii Already got this one. No, he's still going I don't want to run cuz I'm scared of that other guy Cuz he's gonna come and slit them send me to detention which would be awful No, no he sent me detention, okay, that's great. That's actually great 15 seconds. Come on ten seconds. Come on. Let me leave Let me leave he's coming. I can hear him two one Let's go. I Have no protection against this guy. I know I've done this. No as well I'm not doing very well What is that? Who is this? Hello ThIS iS A buLi Great about a lot of generous donor. He stole me things. He stole my things. No the broom is Coming for me. I'm gonna die. I have like no stamina left. I really want to get sent to detention right now any rest? boldy boldy... Don't you dare? Yeah, I'm gonna get detention. I'm gonna dead tension. No Let me alone. Yeah, I've just realized there's a tape player in here We need the tape player. I'm dead. Oh So close so close this is gonna take me forever, but we know that there's a tape that we can put in detention So if we have the tape and then get sent to detention Then we we should be fine. We've also met the bully who is greatly steals items off of you I have the tape. I've got the tape. Gimme I can now buy the soda as well Okay, this is a good start now. We just need five notes number one Wow. It's called Baldy anti hearing and Disorienting I don't know Why that would be of use in detention as he finds you there every time Oh, yeah, we haven't done this one. The big world is Let's just do some *quick* maths shall we - five Are there any other there are any other words we can make with numbers? That might work that's one we didn't find before which is pretty interesting and we've got another one. It's the dab book *Tis is where BB_Games ends helping subtitles. have a gud day and night.* Come here. Come here your stamina refills after every book. So these are the two books that we didn't find last time So we need to be careful and we know where the other ones are. They're all in close proximity to each other So, let's see we can do it. I don't know what we do. We've got the other kids The other two books, but we're just about to find out it's Paul D. I keep forgetting you can switch back with some boards Be quiet eyes a bully there's a bully there's a bully No, I just unlock the sweet. Why would I do that? No, please don't No, oh That girl is so annoying so so annoying No, I don't want to ever see you again There she goes here comes bode. If you chart around I he's so bad Get out of here. No running in the halls. No, no, no quickly get this note quickly. Get the note. We gotta go. Yes You don't put me in such - this time buddy. I don't have the tape. He's gonna send me there Anyway, I don't like you. You're not even you don't even a human close your mouth. Okay, this is bad. He's really quick I think Baldy Knows when you're in detention Yeah, I think he does. Oh, we haven't got this one yet. That's number six. Let's go zero, uh, 11 and 4 oh, this is gonna be bad This is gonna be so bad. Ah I got stuck on the door. I had two cans to Go wait Baldy jeez. Oh, man He's so quick He's so quick. Look at him. He's faster than me, and I have nothing to deflect him either Hardly to run I need to run I need to run I need to run no, no, no He's gonna send me to detention 2 &amp; 5 I'm in trouble. I mean big trouble detention is just there as well. I'm in massive trouble No No You you're a terror but gone Baldy begun, oh I sent him so far back kick comes the sweepy sweep tho I Hate the sweep. I hate the sweep. I hate the sweep That's one and I have a can I have one? I have one here he comes. Oh my goodness. He's so fast It's the one in here. That's the tension. Oh, jeez. That's slapping noise. It's horrific Look at it. It's crazy. Be God. Get out the doors. Yes guys I have no idea where the last one is But I feel like he's gonna catch up to me. I'm gonna have to start running in a second. This guy's gonna catch me No, I've done these ones I've actually done these ones Where's the last notes on dead? I'm dead. I'm dead. Look at him. He's just creeping up on me. Ah This is the locker room Oh actually this to work Give it no Get out of here Hahahahaha get out here both of you you both suck. I've got a yellow door lock as well. No body. Leave me alone Leave me alone. No one likes you be gone. Let's get this note. Come on now. Come on now We've got this we're going wrong. Okay, this is gonna be rough Really rough. I need to run and try and get these yellow doors done. Can I Lockleys? Look it look it look it. Yes It worked Yo, okay, that's amazing. I think this is the last one in here. Yes. Let's go five Five zero Now, where do we go Asians? You found all seven notebooks. No, all you need to do Oh My goodness, I just paused the game That's all I did. I paused it turn my camera back on and wow. Wow, he's gonna be so fast What oh, oh, oh, no, he's so fast so fast Wait, is that at the exit I'm So confused. It says exit above it. But is that where we need to get to to get to the end? I think we might need keys as well And I'm not 100% sure though because we've come across the keys already, but surely you need to use them for something to escape Otherwise, why would they be there? I got attention. I got attention This is messed up everything. Oh, man. He's so close. So close send him back. Send him back to where he came from I'm gonna no no He swept Baldy he swept Baldy away. Thank you for saving my life. No Begun this soda will destroy you okay. He's really far away. I think I have the best opportunity to get out now Oh, Stop oh my goodness. I'm we're gonna snow. No not now not now not now I Have no stamina, he's gonna kill me. Wait. It's an exit right here right here. Come on Are you kidding me? No, I messed up twice He's gonna get me he's gonna get me there's an exit right there. Come on now, come on Come on, I don't know where he is, but I don't even care of going a guide of God We gotta guide me in the halls 32nd White's attention for you white Boy what has happened What has happens, oh My goodness, I don't even know what happened I'm gonna watch that back. Oh Man, so I literally have it loaded up here. Let's go all the way to the end part we go to the exit. I Said a map That's a map. Oh There's a map there I didn't even see what it says because the guy got me oh No, I can't even see what the map says I've got on the slowest playback I can you are here So there's even more exits after you exit the game. Oh My goodness cuz these are all the desks and stuff There's four exits. I control her map from this though and make it a lot easier next time. Oh, I'm so angry. I Honestly thought I'd completed it and then no you can't you can't escape. I'm sure I got Absolutely Done over by this guy though Because it's the Normal School And then this guy's just here because I didn't know what I was doing you with no eyeballs and the open mouth and the giant nostrils that Kind of look like buying I'm upset with you and you destroyed my hopes and dreams I'm gonna have to do that again now, but next time and now you guys gonna be angry to blame this guy It's all him. So guys. Thank you so much watching We have a few things to discover Actually, we still need to discover what on earth the keys do and also the tape player as well So guys if you enjoyed this video, please make that like that. We greatly appreciate it also leave a like if you're excited for the next one cuz I'm definitely gonna be playing some more if you like it and also If you're brand new here Why don't you stick around to watch brands new videos every single day by hitting that subscribe button and joining team TDM today apart from that guys. Thank you so much again for watching and I'll see you next time