App A App B They both do the same thing. If you compare the two, App A has better UI/UX, better customer support, better pricing, Better everything, basically. BUT App B has better visibility. It's on the first page of app store App A may be a better product, but App B will have more views and downloads. All things being equal, app B will In this video, I'll be covering App the science behind giving converting that visibility Let me caveat this by saying that not product development. It supports a valid app. It's not or a solution to a problem that doesn't exist. Of course, marketing and product development I just want to be clear on where Why Do You Need to Learn ASO? Dear non-tech founder, Say you've created an MVP You're gonna want to validate it with real users. You don't want to ask your grandma. Actually, if old ladies are your Point is, you'll need to source authentic users. Second situation, you're need to evaluate someone's marketing knowledge. In both these cases, you'll need to ASO is not a technical topic. You should know enough to do a decent job yourself or make sure the person you hire And that's all I'm covering, just the Apple's App Store to get any non-tech There are slight differences between Google and The algorithm, and Before we start, a quick Public Service who has chosen to remain anonymous PSA: App Stores Have a Review Period! Hey guys, it's me, the sponsor of this video. Again, I'm definitely not Adrian. I actually work out. See this? Adrian doesn't have this. Anyways, I have something important to tell you. App stores won't let you just want - it needs to pass a review process. Their official statements say 'just So whatever date you want to launch on, submit Better safe than sorry. How do I know all this even Adrian taught me. He's amazing. His K bai. What do you mean I don't have biceps? Anyways, two parts, remember? We'll start with the algorithm. App Store Optimization What you need to remember about is to promote relevant and quality apps to users. So your app store optimization strategy should We do this with Keywords Positive user feedback. Let's start with keywords The specific term is metadata - just If a user searches for 'apple', that say 'apple' or something As far as we know, the Google Play The package ID The short and long descriptions The Apple App store looks for keywords from: The app URL The app subtitle The biggest difference here is that Google Apple doesn't. Instead, they've got a keyword You provide Apple with the keywords With Google, you just do your thing, What can you do to maximize your Look up popular competitor apps and Don't repeat keywords - use a Don't keyword stuff your product You still need to appeal to If this is for something serious, consider If you want to see good keyword usage in action, I recommend checking out Signal's They've used a variety of and it doesn't read like a boring manual. Of course, Apple won't show you the keyword field, but it's a fair bet that a lot of Signal's Next up, we look at Reviews and ratings Positive reviews, negative reviews and no Positive and negative reviews are No reviews can be taken to and a competitor with better We'll stick to Signal, let's look at Three-quarters of their two million They've got a teeny tiny percentage You can't please everyone, If you have a million users and a If you have ten users and eleven Your app is so bad that somehow even But for MVP validation, you know To add on to this: Some users will say stuff like 'attractive or The best kind of review you can get In the case of Signal, they claim to offer secure Those underlined parts are great because it It's not you saying you're good at something, This also means the opposite is true: a review that criticises your app's ability As publishers and developers, focus on delivering Really understand your user Be strategic about when to ask for a review This is actually quite a bit less to do with The two really do go hand in hand. If you want reviews, you need to ask for them. If you want positive reviews, You've experienced those annoying pop-ups They're like mosquitoes, and you Wait until users have had a After they're done making a purchase. Gotten off a call, Read three articles. Opened a mystery prize that Just don't interrupt them while Also, space out your requests. Don't ask them every time, If you've ever browsed Reddit's website on mobile, you know they are relentless about I literally have to hit not now on every page. Thing is, I'm on Reddit a lot. I think I'd find the app useful, but I'm how Reddit put advertising And I'm not alone. Ok, now I'm done. Come back here. See, you just have to know when Of course, some people are be prepared to... Handle Negative Reviews Gracefully Your app could cure cancer. Someone will still find Don't ignore these people. Reasonable or not, their emotions are valid. Also, your app is new, and every So respond to all of them, Apologise for negative experiences. Mention that bugs are being patched. Address requests for features. If you want to be a successful founder, you Make them feel heard and appreciated. Turn critics into your most vocal supporters. Converting a low rating into to boost your user conversion rate like crazy. Ok, that wraps up ratings and reviews. It's more straightforward than keywords ask users for a review at the right time, and That brings us to... ASO for the algorithm doesn't stop once a It's just begun. In fact, it never ends. The algorithm will now monitor Things it measures include: Stability - how prone is your Rendering time - how fast does Energy-drain - how power-hungry is Startup time - how long does it take for Permissions - how keen are users on granting For Google, this can be accessed via head to their App Analytics via App Connect. You need to check your stats regularly at first because there will always be bugs Past that point, always make sure your app's especially as the user base grows and your puny Sorry, elitist developer side speaking there. Everything we've seen so far tells Hey, algorithm, I'm an app and I'm really And the algorithm is like, prove it. So I go, Look at these keywords I'm linked to Look at my zero crash rate And the algorithm is like, ok, ok, pretty good, You've won over the machine, now for the humans. App Store Optimization At this point, your app appears at the But it's not the only option You need to use every visual and right kind of users to visit your There's slight differences between stores, but App Icon Video and Let's start with App Icon Your icon alone should give an Let's look at Signal's icon in isolation Judging from the speech bubble, Now let's put it next to WhatsApp. They've both got speech bubbles, so From there, the design differences are clues. Whatsapp has a phone - it's telling users, Signal has a line around it to I provide security for your messages. Look at the icon and the I have to say, I do think it I think on iconography alone, something like SafeSwiss does a better But hey, Signal's icon is different enough to Let's look at Signal's Here's what's good about them: They use Signal's brand colour The screenshot is accompanied Signal's five screenshots, clearly show and tell users what they Plus, it's a chance to show Signal only targets phone users, so If your app is also optimized for tablets, include Do I Need a Promo Video? Short answer: If you have to ask, probably not. Longer answer: Good quality video content Evaluate what a video can communicate to Signal doesn't have a video, they're doing fine. Are screenshots not enough to Does your app contain video If you have a case for a promo video, make sure And that's it! We'll recap everything now but When you've been doing it for so long you Editor, can I have a cup of coffee, please? Thank you. For Algorithms: Takeaways doing research or paying for a tool Respond to negative reviews to Monitor your app's vital performance metrics ALL assets here must be pleasing to the Your icon alone should give an Your screenshots should show include some copy to clarify what users are seeing Again, these are the basics of ASO. to know and need to do if you want ASO is a rabbit hole, you into things like A/B testing and Here's my advice, all knowledge Right now you don't need it. As a non-tech founder, you're gonna You need to be a jack of all trades. Get your app optimized in the app or play And because I know you've already forgotten, remember to submit your app for Whatever leftover time you have, Thank me later. Or thank me now, by subscribing to development for non-tech founders. I'd like you think the video was too long or was it an And If you want to see marketing and check out my story on Alex Turnbull, a non-tech company with no technical co-founder. Alex made I learned a lot from studying