We got these Shinsonic Mystery Boxes here. We're going to open them at three a.m. in the night today. We have both cheap and very expensive Shinsonic Mystery Boxes. This is for example a one-euro Shin Scourge mystery box. Just look at how small it is! We also have a ten-euro Shin Shadow mystery box. Oh, that smells really disgusting. It's a hundred-euro Shin-Amy mystery box. This is the most stunning mystery box there is. I truly love you, Shin-Amy. Oh, my beloved Shin-Amy. Ew! Birdman loves Shin Amy! We also have a five-hundred-euro Shin Tales mystery box. It just has diamonds on it. There must be some really crazy stuff inside. And we have a thousand-euro Shin Sonic mystery box. Wow, smoke is just coming out of his mouth. That's super expensive. I'm so curious about what's inside. But we bought an even more expensive mystery box. And it should arrive any minute now. It arrives. Oh, great! We should rush to the door and get it. And wow, something is glowing out there, friends. Let's open the door now and wow. Our costliest mystery box is simply an XXL Happy Meal! And it simply cost ten thousand euros. If you want us to open it, then get to ten thousand likes. Because then we'll find out which monster this mystery box is from. Okay, let's bring them in first. We'll set the mystery mystery box here. And don't forget to like, so we can open it at the end of the video. But alright, I think we should start with the cheapest and smallest one. Next, we open the pricey ones. This is the Shin-Scourge Mystery box. Let's look what's inside here for only a euro? Out here, there's certainly some green, gross slime everywhere. Oh, wow! And up in the Shin-Scourge Mystery Box, there's simply a small crocodile game. Do you know this, friends? When you press down the teeth of this crocodile, it eventually snaps shut. Ah, that's super cool. In this mini mystery box, there can only be mini things inside, but what is that? Wow, friends, there's just an XXL magic potion in here. With it, you can make people or objects XXL. For example, this crocodile here. Let's pour a little bit of it over this. Oh, it's growing already. It's getting bigger. Wow. This mini crocodile has turned into a massive one. That's just too crazy. I have a thought. If the XXL drink works on the crocodile, it should also work on the Shin-Scourge Mystery Box. We could make it gigantic right away, like so. Just pour a bit over it. Oh come on, let's just take the whole potion, and I think it's already growing. Oh yes, wow. The Shin-Scourge Mystery Box has just become huge. This means that the items inside must be enormous. Let's take a look inside. Wow, it appears that there was a pencil in here previously. It has simply turned into an XXL size. Awesome, friends. And this euro right here has gotten really big. You can remove it from here. It's so thick, like there's something inside. Let's try to open it. Wow, yes, it works! And this euro is now made of chocolate. Friends, it's simply a chocolate euro. Delicious. But there's more inside. The next thing in here is also something to eat, but it's not as tasty as the euro. It's actually Shin-Scourge-Snot. This is what comes out of your nose, and it's in a tube here. Let's open it and see what it looks like. I'll put a bit on my finger. What's that, friends? It's gross and slimy. How about we sample a bit of that? This is quite unpleasant. The actual mucus. Let's quickly set this aside. And we'll take the next item out of the Shin-Scourge Mystery Box. Here we have a Sonic watch. It's pretty intense. This box was just one euro, and there's a ton of stuff in it. Alright, let's try it out. Open here and put it on your wrist. Oh, doesn't it look cool? Let's turn it on. Look, friends, there's some kind of timer running. And this timer is just counting down. What happens when the timer ends? I'm not sure, but I think something really exciting will happen. Friends, stay tuned so you don't miss it. So, write 'clock' in the comments if you want a cool Sonic clock as well. Also, there's one more thing in this Shin-Scourge mystery box. For one euro, and that is... Eww! That's a wobbly green thing, like a maggot or a snail. So green, like Shin-Scourge. Yuck! Get it away! But well, since the Shin Scourge Mystery Box is now empty, we can move on to the next Mystery Box. And that is the ten-euro Mystery Box from Shin Shadow. This mystery box needs to be way more intense than the one-euro mystery box since it cost ten times as much. What is it exactly? Here on the back of the box, there's just a pair of glasses stuck. And it says: 'Put them on before opening.' Oh, friends, what could be inside this box? To open this box, you have to wear the glasses. This isn't good. For safety, let's put it on and now open the Shin Shadow Mystery Box. Oh. Oh. Wow, friends! This box has just burst into flames! Therefore, we should definitely put on these protective goggles! That's too much! But wow! So many cool things are here. The first thing in this box is... The world's strongest laser! Friends, it's so strong that... Whatever it focuses on catches fire. Let's try it out. So! Wow! That eye just flared up! With this laser, we are surely safe from the Shin-Sonics. But there's even more inside. Specifically, there's something to eat. Yes, it looks like some kind of sweet. And there's a totally crazy man on it. I'm opening this up now, just like that. Wow! Look at all these little bags that have fallen out everywhere. They're spread all over the table. Friends, which color should we pick to try it out? Red or green? Tell me in the comments. Birdman, I think you should take red. I'll try a green one. So, I'll open this one. So, and in here is... wow! Such a green powder. It doesn't really look like something you can eat. But okay, we'll try everything that's in these mystery boxes. Put it in here. Yum! Wow, it really tingles on my tongue. Listen. And it tastes like apple. This is the first delicious thing we've found in these mystery boxes here. Oh, there's more inside. And I've never seen anything like this. What could this be? It says self-inflating lightsaber on it. Is there really a lightsaber in this tiny package? That can't be true. Let's check it out. And wow, yes, there's a lightsaber inside. But that's really flat. Why did you just pack such a flat lightsaber in your mystery box, Shin-Shadow? I don't know, friends. It appears that this lightsaber is gradually swelling up here. Indeed, my friends, it is already quite puffed up. And I think we can already engage in combat with it. So we have no problem fighting against the Shin Sonics. If one of them shows up here. The thing is, all this stuff wasn't even worth ten euros. There should actually be something else in this mystery box. And yes. The thing is, what is this? It's just a can that says radioactive on it. And in this can is really disgusting slime. Oh, friends, this is super cool. Let's check if we can make this slime fart from the can. Here, let's put it in and... Yes, it worked! Now the Shin-Shadow Mystery Box is empty. So, we'll go right to the hundred-euro Shin-Amy Mystery Box. It's just super pink. Friends, these mystery boxes keep improving! In order to unlock this XXL Happy Meal, we require a total of ten thousand likes. Currently, we are short by precisely nine hundred ninety-nine likes. That means, if you haven't liked this video yet, go ahead and do that now. Then we'll take a look inside this Happy Meal mystery box. But first, let's see what's in this Shin-Amy mystery box here. Let's open it up here at the top; it's taped up with tape. Let's take a look inside--wow! You won't believe what's in this mystery box. We'll begin with the biggest thing. And this is another box. And... Wow. It seemed like something was shifting inside. The front says my pet is in the box. It smells, it moves, and it wants to get out. Have fun. That's the reason there's a big chain around the box. It's to keep Shin-Amy's pet from escaping. Alright. Yes, I can hear a heartbeat in here as well. It resembles a fart. Hey, listen. Ewwww! Do we really want to take a look inside? I don't know. Anyway, let's take off the chain and see what kind of animal is in here. And in here is... friends. Shin Amy's pet is just poo. I thought maybe a cat or a dog. But wow. Not poo. Wow. And the poop can just walk. And it has just fallen off the table. Wow! It's now crawling down there on the floor and continuing on! Ahhh! Kaka, halt! No, Kaka has escaped. Amy is going to lose it when she finds out we've lost her pet. We need to figure out a way to catch it again, Birdman. Otherwise, it will smell bad in the whole place. Yes, you're right. But I already have an idea. We'll set a trap for the escaped poo, and we'll do it here in the bathroom. If I were poop, I would definitely go to the toilet first. Everything we need for the trap is in this box. Here, we actually have something that's not real poop. It feels and appears just like the genuine article. However, it's really just a synthetic wobbly object. Now, we're going to put a face of a poop lady on it. We use this to lure the poop pile into the trap. When he spots the poop girl, right here, he will fall deeply in love with her and come rushing in. This trap we've set up here will snap shut. Then Amy's poop pet will be trapped in this box. To ensure it comes here, we also have a fart bomb ready. It smells really gross to us, but to the poop pile, it smells delicious. It will draw him in. Let's let it burst like that. And it's already swelling up! We need to get out of here fast before it pops! Wow, this smells really terrible. But alright, I hope Mr. Kacke steps into the trap soon. Meanwhile, let's take a look at what else is inside this Shin-Amy mystery box. What is this? It looks like a candy, and it says, Baby Amy Pacifier. There's just a picture of Amy as a baby on it. Let's put it in our mouth like this, and wow, yes. This is a pacifier. I'm Baby Amy. Yum, yum. Lalala. Hahaha. And here in this can, there's some kind of powder. I believe we can dip our pacifier into it. Yes, now it's covered in powder. Then we can lick it again. And this powder in here is super sour. Why does baby Amy eat such sour things? Yuck! Get rid of it. And there's something else in this hundred euro Amy mystery box. This is a little mini trophy. Amy definitely won, and it says first place in the beauty contest. Amy has taken first place in the beauty contest. That is definitely a monster; it looks really ugly, friends. Shin-Amy is beautiful; I love her, so hush. Wow, chill out, Birdman. Sure, I think Amy is really beautiful. She deserves that trophy. Oh! But look at the clock, friends! It just beeped, and there are only five minutes left. Then the timer has run out. Wow, friends, stay tuned so you don't miss what happens next. But there's more in here. And inside is also a filled trash can. Wow, friends, it's really heavy. What's up with Amy? First, she sends us her pet poop, and now her garbage too. The trash smells really awful. Let's take a look inside. Ugh! What's inside here? It's slimy goo, ugh! There's something else in here. Do you all see that, friends? Yes, something tough, and it's a mini Amy figure. Wow, a standard Amy, not a Shin-Amy. She's way more beautiful than Shin-Amy, but... No, there's something really crazy in here. This is a Shin-Amy skull. And these are just Shin-Amy's hair. But she's just a skeleton now. This might be Shin-Amy's real head. Oh, there's something else in here. It's pink as well, friends. It's gum in a tube. Let's push it right into my mouth. Wow, oh, yum. This is simply delicious gum with strawberry taste. Wow, that's neat. But now the Shin-Amy mystery box is empty. And that means we're now continuing with the five hundred euro Tales mystery box. Wow, it's so cool. I'm also so curious about what's inside the Shin-Sonic and the Mystery mystery box. It's super heavy. Woah, I am so excited! I did it. Let's open this golden mystery box on top. Let's see inside. Wow, what's that? A balloon is just hovering with a stuffed toy. And here are Tails and Sonic on the balloon. Wow, how cool. For five hundred euros, there must be some really awesome stuff in there. But, friends, hear that? Sounds like a note's in the balloon. Yes, listen. Yes, there's something in there. Write 'Tales' in the comments if we should pop this balloon. What's inside? There's definitely more in the mystery box. You know, it cost five hundred euros. Wow, that can't be real. It looks like a phone. But it's a Shinphone. I've never seen anything like it. Amazing, because a phone like that costs more than a thousand euros. Wow, it looks brand new. Yeah, the film is still on it. It's just Shintales on it. Let's attempt to power on the phone. The background image here clearly belongs to Shintales. Perhaps this is indeed Shintale's phone. It is currently unlocked. Let's take a look at the calls. Wow, only calls to and from Shinsonic. We should have his number now. Yes, friends, it's right here in this phone wow! If you want us to call him... So, go ahead and give a big thumbs up right now. We're going to do this immediately. I'm hitting FaceTime. Oh yes! Hey you are not tales! Where did you get that phone? We found it in this Shintales mystery box here. You can open our mystery boxes, but don't open my box! Wow, we definitely shouldn't open your mystery box. What could possibly be so bad about your mystery box? Open mine, and I'll eat you! Wow, he hung up again. Crazy that he warned us about the mystery box. We paid a thousand euros, so we'll look inside soon. Before we do anything else, let's examine this balloon. A lot of you have mentioned Tails in the comments. Therefore, we will now proceed to pop it. Let's go! Indeed, a piece of paper has truly fallen out of this balloon. It's rolled up in a certain way, and it reads, 'I am a voodoo doll.' Wow, that implies that this Tails.exe doll is not an ordinary doll; rather, it is a voodoo doll linked to the actual Tails.exe. This means that if we bend its arm here, Wow, did you hear that? The arm of the real Tales.exe is bending too. If you heard it, he must be close by. Oh no, we have to destroy this voodoo doll somehow. Is there anything in here that could assist us? Alright, here's a small Tails figure, but it's not helpful. But this might help us, wow. In this plastic box, there's a sword. Friends, it's as golden as the mystery box. Now we're going to take down the voodoo doll. Wow, I think Tales.exe can't do anything to us anymore. Raaaah! Hahaha! And now there's one more item in the box, and I believe it's located right at the bottom in the last corner. It appears to be spider webs or something similar that are inside. I need to reach deep down in there. Oh no, something is moving. Ahhhh! Help! Oh no! A big spider is crawling on the floor. Oh no! It's coming at us! Help! I've never seen such a huge spider! Wow. It must be dangerous. I have an idea. The mystery box from Tales is empty. Let's put it on top of the spider. There. Now we have caught them down here. And we can continue with the thousand euro Shin-sonic mystery box. And for the Shin-Happy-Meal, we just need one more like. So, if you haven't liked it yet, go ahead and do that now. This way, we can also open the Shin-sonic-Mysterybox here. Now let's take it over. I'm curious why there's so much smoke coming from this box. Well, never mind. Let's cut it open right here. I can't see anything here due to all the smoke. We have to reach in blindly and grab something. Let's go. Yes, I feel something. Wow. This is the first thing from our Shin-sonic box. It looks like a fidget spinner. Wow, that's intense! You can spin it. So fun! And then there's this Sonic ball. I really love fidget spinners. Wow! Let's check what else is in here. And down below, there's something that looks like an ice cream cone. And here it says Shin-sonic.exe. And there's also a picture of Shin-sonic.exe on it. Wow, it looks really creepy. But okay, let's take this off the top. Let's pull out this weird note. And let's check what's inside. Alright, here's a small can. And down here, it looks like chocolate. Let's take it all out. I love chocolate, guys. Yes, it's just an ice cream cone with chocolate. It looks great. But should we eat it if it's from Shin sonic.exe? I don't know, friends, but let's eat it. ohh, hmmm, ohh. Wow, that It tasted incredibly delicious! Perhaps we should be less choosy about the candies, wow! What has happened to my voice? Oh no, my friends. I'm speaking just like Sonic.exe! Alright, let's take a look at what's inside this can... which was also part of this candy and... Yuck, what is that? It resembles some sort of slime... Perhaps it's a type of sugary slime. ...and wow, that is really delicious! And this candy was way too intense, but wow! My whole skin has just turned green. Oh, now it's gone again. And my voice is normal again too. Oh no. Maybe we shouldn't eat all these sweets anymore. The thing is, this whole setup can't possibly have cost more than a thousand euros. And no, there's just another Sonic cap in here. And, wow, what is that? Another tiny blue Sonic hand, too. And you can just put it on your finger. That's super funny! Wow! This mini Sonic hand is controlling my finger and heading towards the box for friends. Oh no! What should we do now? It's going in there, and I think it's getting something out. Yes! Specifically, this little bottle here. Wow, friends! This indicates that the Sonic hand wanted us to sample this little bottle here. Let's open it up immediately. Ugh! It resembles a deodorant roller in here. If we lick it, it's tasty, tasty. Then we access this blue liquid inside. And it tastes very good. So yummy! But alright, the Shin Sonic Mystery Box is empty now, and that means we can finally open the XXL mystery Happy Meal. So, when you've hit ten thousand likes. And... Yes! We got ten thousand likes, friends! We're also taking a look at which Shin this Happy Meal is from. And... it's by... Shin Knuckles?! Amazing! This is the red Shin! Alright, let's open this ten thousand mystery box right now. Let's go! This Happy Meal is just so huge. And it has this funny balloon on top. There might be something in there; we'll find out soon, but first, let's open this big Happy Meal from Shin Knuckles. Wow, there's so much packed into this Happy Meal! Alright, I'm going to pull out something big, and here it is: a box from McCafe. Let's take a peek inside. And... inside, there's a cake! It's a bright blue color, and it has something written on top... I have a birthday today. What?! Shin Knuckles has a birthday today? Everyone write: 'Happy Birthday, Shin Knuckles' in the comments. This is supposed to be is the birthday cake? Yikes! It looks extremely weird! Why is it blue? Thats not normal! Let's taste it. Ahem. Hmmm, that was pretty good, but something feels off with me. Oh no, my friends. Wow! This cake just made me briefly turn into Shin Knuckles. We'd rather not keep eating that. Let's check what's still in here. Wow, and what's in here is... Whoa! An XXL giant claw machine. And in this claw machine, there are just little happy meals. Let's try to grab one. This one back here. Up it goes, and yay! We won one of the Happy Meals! And this, delicious, you can eat, and it was made of marzipan! How tasty, friends! But the next thing in this Shin Knuckles Happy Meal isn't so tasty. This is an apple bag, but the apples inside look quite rotten. They are black or brown everywhere. Let's open it up from the top. Yikes! It already smells awful. And yes! The apples are really brown. There's also a huge worm inside. Yuck, friends! Let's eat it anyway. Wow! That actually didn't taste so gross. The apples are still good, Birdman. Do you want one? No, thank you. I'd rather not. Okay, then don't. They were really delicious, but there's also a drink in here. Okay, let's see what's inside. With these monster Happy Meals, you always have to check the drinks before you drink them. And, Eww! What's floating on top of the drink? It's some kind of wobbly dino egg or something. Yuck, yuck! I don't think you can drink that anymore. But we can eat the next thing here: a cheeseburger! That's great timing because I'm really hungry! Alright, let's see what's inside. It actually looks fairly normal. Oh no! Some colorful beads are falling out of this burger. What is that? Well, never mind, let's just try it like this. Hmm... And it tastes super delicious! So, it's a bit slimy. But it just tastes like putting gummy bears on a burger. Yummy! Up until now, there hasn't been anything bad in this ten thousand euro Shin Knuckles mystery box. Next, I believe there's still a candy inside. What could it be? Friends, there's some sort of pen in here along with gummy bears. Can you see? With this pen in my hand, we can fill the liquid inside into these gummy bears. Wow, this is an amazing candy! So here comes something in too. And now we will try two filled gummy bears. Mmmm. Yuck! Eww! Ahhh! Wow guys, it's really sour, but it says that on the label. Well, never mind. Let's check out what else is inside. This is the second to last item in this XXL Happy Meal. It's a pizza, or more accurately, a pizza box. Let's peek inside and wow! There are tiny pizza pieces in here. But they resemble more like pizza buns or something like that. So, let's take this and put it in our mouths. Hmmm. Wow, friends! This pizza just has ketchup on it. It tastes really bad. Yuck! Throw the pizza away! And we retrieve the ultimate item from this Happy Meal. It's a bag of fries containing a Knuckles figure! The fries are topped with a vibrant red sauce. Wahhhh! Wow! The clock is beeping! This means the timer just went off! Oh no! What happens now? ...Wow! Friends, the light just went out. Suddenly, I hear strange noises everywhere. Friends, comment if you see anything odd. I can't see anything here; it's dark. Subscribe to this channel for free so you don't miss any videos. But no, there's nothing here. Ahhh!