As you'll see today, humans have been very We've ripped out ribs for decoration and just the tip of the iceberg. On the face of it, we aren't really a very agree with us by the end of this show, we'll 10. Molten gold fit for a thief. Pouring molten gold down someone's throat You might have watched the episode in Game although in that case the poor victim was no less. Did such a thing happen in real life? As you'll see today in all its bloody glory, will sink to. So, yes, of course, it's possible that some smelted a load of gold and poured it down We rather like the story of Valerian, who By all accounts, he wasn't a very nice guy, they had and banishing them from Rome. When the mood took him, he also had them executed. But then he met his downfall after the Battle He lost and subsequently became a prisoner Shapur the first was also a guy that didn't Once he had Valerian in captivity, for a while him at times as a footstool which he used Valerian was a bit upset about this, as you ransom for his release. Shapur's response was, "Er...nah." Historians sometimes disagree as to what happened alive and his skin then stuffed with straw But there's a better story. It is said that Shapur had some gold melted throat. While this would definitely be a painful kind that death is almost instant. You don't swallow the stuff and think, ouch, Rather, your organs are immediately ruptured, shock. The gold would take about 10 seconds to congeal, airways would be blocked. That's what might have happened to the ever-greedy Rome who was famous for being part of that and the war-mongering man we now call Pompey Crassus, not the best of the three when it and because he was so greedy, they gave him But we can't talk about this punishment who as you know, went over to South America they could. If anyone deserved a molten gold death, it There's a great story published in the National of a Spanish governor in Ecuador back in 1599. The native Indians of the Jivaro tribe had taxes, so they kidnapped him and killed him It was this story that inspired a bunch of if someone actually did that, but unfortunately, for an experiment. Instead, they used a cow, a dead cow, and have been from ruptured organs. As we said, it would have been over very quickly, slow, and very, very painful. 9. The spiked hare a la mode in Europe during the Middle Ages. Everyone got up to it, either as a form of when there were no beans to spill - or as think twice about committing the same kind Usually, the punishments were performed in They were big events, rather like a heavyweight Historians say people would travel for miles, but also to sell their wares. Sometimes the event was the punishment of back then. The condemned woman would be taken from town As we said, these events were big money spinners. One of the punishments was called the spiked It basically involved a tool that looks similar your lawn. The reason it got the name the spiked hare would look a bit like a hare that is about The torture was said to have been quite popular banned it in 1740. If you visit museums there today, you'll With enough rolling up and down someone's "Ouch, ouch, ouch, ouch...Ok, ok, I turned Something like that. It's not mentioned in too many stories, this one was mostly used on regular folks, In a 1767 dictionary written by a German guy it like this, "It is a roller with small, This is placed under the patient's back when back and forth." It may not have caused instant death like but it did tear a person's flesh to pieces. Not only would that have been very painful, likely have died from an infection. Let's now head to China, where slow deaths 8. The cangue it didn't always end in death. It doesn't sound too bad at first, though. Imagine you had committed a transgression. The authorities wanted to make an example something which was not unusual in the past. The Europeans would often use branding, so The Chinese had the cangue, right up until It was a wooden board fastened around someone's written onto the board. So, when they went out in public, they couldn't If their crime wasn't a very severe one, day or two and if people felt a bit sorry and food. Remember that the board was so big that a mouth. If people didn't bother helping, they slowly And this was not uncommon. There was an even worse punishment, though, It happened to Chinese rebels in the year They were put inside a box with their neck on pegs. Each day, the pegs were lowered a bit, so As you'll now see, for China, that was kind 7. The waist chop love watching magic tricks, especially the you were supposed to think they were. But what would happen if this wasn't a magic Waist chopping first became a thing in China BC, although there are lots of stories of They even had a word for it, "zhan." It was supposed to be very slow and very painful, the victim was able to pay the executioner or at least pay to buy some kind of pain relief. The more cash you had, the less painful being If the procedure started at the waist, as time before the person was dead. In fact, there's a story about an education went to the chopping block for giving the The executioner took his time, and so Hongtu "miserable", "cruel" and "awful" Historians say that during this era sawing death as a form of punishment. We're not quite sure which one we'd prefer. Before some of you folks start criticizing Europeans were also into sawing people in Asia, and North Africa. Let's face it, it doesn't take a genius painful. There were two ways of doing it. One was to saw across the middle of the body, have been much worse. Not that we'd like to have to choose. The always-paranoid Roman emperor Caligula saying he even did it to members of his own The French did a bit of sawing when Napoleon that the Serbians did it to the Hungarians The victims were men, women, and children, There are instances of it happening pretty and far-fetched as you might think it is, The most recent cases involved Cambodia's According to witnesses whose testimonies were sometimes the victim would be tied up between The person's organs were then used to decorate If you know anything about the utter evil of thing was par for the course. Ok, now for something we know you've all 6. The pit of snakes of sense as it's cheap, convenient, and in a snake pit just didn't happen. We mean, would a king or a leader really go and keep them in a pit, waiting for the time We found one website that said it was "very true. It wasn't common at all, and if it did happen, their way around Europe. Inscriptions of various objects say it occured, truth from legend. In one Viking tale, Ragnar was captured by in northern England. In another story, it was the other way around we'll take about later. But let's stick with Aella winning and the This particular legend, written in the 14th snake pit. The writers of the tale have him saying, "Fix'd Within my heart, his mansion warm. In the recesses of my breast. The writhing snake hath form'd his nest." As it was vipers in the pit, it could be true. There are around 200 subspecies of vipers, The rattlesnake is a viper, as is the cottonmouth, the kind of animal you'd want to share a If you did, they'd bite you, and if no one We don't know what kind of snakes England adders (a kind of viper) right now. They haven't killed anyone for over 20 years, a pit of them, he would have eventually died. He would have become feverish, and because cells and caused hemorrhaging, he might have If the English had such a thing as a death "Cause of death: extensive internal bleeding." We'll come back to the Vikings and arguably stay with the evil English for now. 5. The gibbet It's the 1700s and you're just a regular You decide to go out for a walk with your stroll along the pathway next to the river and lush green views, a disgusting smell suddenly You walk on, only for your kid to say, "Look As you get closer to what your kid is looking a tree. Ravens are pecking his eyes. His flesh is blackened by decomposition. What you're looking at is a former criminal. He's inside a gibbet. Back then, you could find such sights all the most exposure. They were a warning to people and were quite grim to us now. Pirates and smugglers were often the ones hanged first. For the hanging, thousands of people would They were huge events, sometimes family events. In the gibbets, the rotting flesh and the surprisingly, people would often complain They also sometimes scared little kids. But under the Murder Act of 1751, the British so they wouldn't think about committing Rather than help the poor to prevent the spread ante when it came to punishment. Hardliners still call for this kind of thing When a Mr. Swan was hung up in a gibbet, so-called their houses. The authorities moved him to Buckets Hill, Mr. Swan stayed there until his smaller bones When the smugglers who named themselves the to penal colonies, but around 14 were hanged As you can imagine, making the cages wasn't We found some documents that said a blacksmith 14 shillings for making a gibbet. That's almost seven thousand in today's In another document, the authorities wrote "The head was shaved and tarred, to preserve cap in which he had suffered was drawn over On Saturday afternoon his body, attired as firmly fixed in the irons necessary to keep of its intended suspension." Women weren't usually gibbetted. Not because they didn't commit crimes, but high up where people might be able to catch A flash of dirty panties was deemed much more corpse in a cage for the kids to see. Go figure. You might be thinking, well, it's not as Ages, the authorities would sometimes hang take care of them. Now that's a terrible death if there ever But this is arguably worse. 4. The Judas Cradle had all kinds of terrifying torture devices. Some were never used, such as the Iron Maiden if others were used. The artifacts exist, but historians are sometimes so they could show them off to the public. So, maybe things such as the head-crusher It's hard to say. You can find websites saying it did, but when find real-life cases that were written about As we said, though, the artifacts exist, and Ages folks. This brings us to our favorite device that It was basically a sharp pyramid stuck to The person who was being interrogated would was slightly uncomfortable, but if the person to their legs. The pyramid was also greased allowing the After a while, the internal injuries caused It was a horrible way to die. Today, there are plenty of these devices in of sketches of people being tortured on such Some sources say they were invented in the people to confess during the inquisitions, The Spanish had laws about torture, and they down during interrogations. Nothing in these records talk about a Judas If they did use it, the outcome was never They'd have been split and maimed, and even die from an infection. In conclusion, since people back then were skin peeled off, all backed up by plenty of may well have been used on more than a few Let's now get to a modern torture method people's demise. 3. Tiger cage went to South Vietnam to see what the Vietnamese Photographs weren't ever supposed to get revealed that lots of prisoners were kept Assisting the congressmen that day was a guy he talked about torture and the fact the Americans spent a ton of money on contracts to make Once the victims were thrown down into the day long. Their captors would throw lime on them, just Sometimes they were beaten first. Some of them, merely student activists, died Even a Buddhist monk died in a tiger cage. This wasn't a good look for the US. In 1970, the New York Times ran the headline, Cells at a Prison." Thousands of people, said the report, were The cages weren't all the same, either, enough for only one person. One victim of these cages later said, "They to my senses, I thought I fell into Hell because This could lead to a slow and horrible death. The bloodied person would just lay there all Ants, and sometimes snakes and centipedes, A Vietnamese museum later stated "Thousands couldn't stand tortures." This particular prison was built with American As Mr. Luce said, "The US paid the salaries and turned suspects over to the police." After telling everyone about what really went of his life. That straw that broke the camel's back was a deadly "two-step" snake in his bed. So yes, torture isn't just from the Middle This one is also modern, but it belongs to It's frankly disgusting. Bamboo torture helping the Siamese (Thai) during the "Siamese and explorer named Sherard Osborn was present. He wrote down some of the things he saw and is "culturally important." That's because not many western people were those days. Osborn talked about one of the most macabre It involved some Siamese soldiers, some Malay to as "formidable lances". He said he'd seen the natives cook people bamboo was nothing short of evil. In his own words, talking about bamboo, he his body, and bring on mortification and death slow mode of impaling." That's right. A guy was forced to sit on a bamboo shoot headed towards his insides. This created possibly the slowest, scariest, It's mentioned by another Brit from back Across the Peninsula of India, from Madras Yep, the Indians got down with bamboo torture, who did it last, or supposedly did, when they butts during WW2. First of all, maybe some of you are thinking, Actually, it could. Bamboo is super tough. That's why so many Asian countries still It also grows extremely fast, at about 36 So, as long as they could fasten the guy down, backside and enter the insides quite quickly. Mythbusters once did a show on it and concluded But what about the Japanese army? If you know what they did in their dreaded they'd have some fun with bamboo. Indeed, one book we found said, "Great pain their anus on the top of young bamboo shoots every day." Some historians have questioned if this actually people have talked about it. In fact, the BBC once wrote, "Tales were found the mutilated bodies of their lost comrades. How the Japanese placed Bamboo shoots under This is the biggest ouch torture we reckon This next one is more of an "arghhh" torture quick. 1. The blood eagle A person was first brought to a ceremonial stomach. The executioner then took a really sharp knife pressure that he severed the rib cage. That's part one. The ribs were pulled through his back and like wings, but as they were very boney wings, Voila! An eagle, a bloody eagle. By this time, of course, the man was as dead It sounds too bad to be true, and the only It's mentioned in something called the "Orkneyinga In this story, a guy named Harald I Fairhair, islands of what is now northern Scotland, the Vikings were apt to do. It was on the island of Orkney that Harald's he'd taken out some Viking nobility. His death wasn't just about revenge, but for the god, Odin. Here's some actual text from the saga, in "Earl Einarr went up to Halfdan and cut fashion that he thrust his sword into his ribs down to the loins, and then pulled out Another case involved a formidable Viking Boneless, some historians say, wasn't related the fact that his John Thomas didn't always It's a long story, but do you remember the of snake pit fame. Well, Mr. Boneless outsmarted the king and Only the very worst punishment would do, so The text in the saga reads, "And Ivar, back, cut with an eagle." Were the Vikings making this up? Possibly, but they were a rough bunch from of the doubt. Now you need to watch "The Worst Amusement Or, have a look at this gruesome video "Why