Everyone, get down, get down, don't move around, get down, don't leave the car, get down and open the door, it's okay, everyone, be safe, get down, stay here, I'll be careful when I go. Ice Blade, Ice Blade Bravo2 (cloth) Leo) Call Bravo2, I am Ice Blade, please speak Bravo2, report that the medical team vehicle was attacked and the driver was shot dead. There is an enemy sporadic fire threat in front of me. Bravo2 is on standby at the 23rd kilometer of Highway 11, waiting for opportunities to eliminate it. Fire threat Charlie1 (Charlie) launched a satellite search in the direction of 23 kilometers of Highway 11 to Bravo2 to provide real-time monitoring information. Charlie1 received electronic interference in the area near 23 kilometers of Highway 11. It will take about five minutes to eliminate the ice. Blade, Blade of Ice Bravo2, the report found the target, two buses in the northwest mountain forest about 400 meters, Bravo2 cleared the target, took the medical team away as soon as possible, arrived at the airport on time, Bravo2 received it, understand, go, we go, we go, withdraw, give you gold quickly, we Where is Dr. Lin? Where is Engineer Feng? The engineer kept shouting that he was in pain. Dr. Lin was examining him. Suddenly, a car came up from behind and several people got out. We couldn't stop them. They wounded the soldier and killed two of our doctors who stood up and resisted. Bravo2, the report is completed. Bravo2 Ice Blade received Bravo2. Wait, you have to stay calm and organize an evacuation to the airport as soon as possible. Bravo2 has received the car and boarded Tong Wei. Is there anything going on? We have n't found out what happened yet. The car can't hit Tong Wei. Continue to be vigilant. This is Charlie1, I am the Ice Blade. Quickly activate satellite data to search and lock the destination of the vehicle that hijacked Feng Yuanqing and Dr. Lin. Charlie1, received the query. Ice Blade, Ice Blade Charlie1, call Charlie1. I am the Ice Blade, please. Answer: Intelligence shows that Feng Yuanqing, the chief engineer of Zhengdeqi Group, has multiple private accounts overseas and has financial transactions with Aikelamu and the local government. Zhengdeqi Group had two bridge technology patents leaked some time ago. I suspect that this Feng Yuanqing is responsible. Regarding this, Feng Yuanqing is a technician of the bridge. Is it okay? No, let me try again, platoon leader, start it, start it, try it again, Xiaotian, how about it? If it doesn't work, you go and let me try Ice Blade, Ice Blade Bravo2, report to the medical team bus The damage is under repair. The injured by the medical team have been rescued and rescued by each other and are now stable. Alpha5 is still under treatment. Bravo2 continues to repair the vehicle and rush to the airport as soon as possible. Bravo2 understands how. You start the fire and try to go to Alpha1. If you hear the call of Ice Blade, please answer Ice Blade. , Alpha1, received Alpha1. Please report your location. Ice Blade Alpha has ten minutes to arrive at the airport. Ice Blade received Eagle1 Eagle1 (Engel). If you hear it, please answer Eagle1. If you have anything to say, please pie Eagle1. Pay attention and be ready to dispatch support at any time. Bravo2 Eagle, all preparations for flight are on standby and can take off at any time. Charlie1, report Charlie1, report that the vehicle that hijacked Gong Feng and Dr. Lin has been locked. Please receive the satellite real-time monitoring signal. Bravo2 Bravo2 There are two pickup trucks with about 20 people. The rebels are speeding towards Highway 11 and are about to cut off your way to the airport. Bravo2 understands, Bravo2 understands Eagle1 Eagle1. Ice Blade calls Ice Blade Eagle1. After receiving Eagle, take off immediately. Target is 23 kilometers away from Highway 11. Bravo2 , the area where the Ice Blade Eagle1 receives the Eagle and takes off immediately Bravo2 The enemy has entered Route 11 and is approaching you. It is approaching you. Change the plan. You immediately change direction and withdraw to the station. Bring everyone back. Bravo2 understands. Bravo2 understands Wang Platoon. Commander, what's the problem? Come on, try Bravo2. The enemy is traveling at 80 kilometers per hour and is still nine kilometers away from you. Ice Blade Bravo2 received Platoon Commander Wang. The rebels will arrive in six minutes. Tong Wei and I will fight you first. Come on, veteran driver. Twenty rebels are maneuvering here. We have 4 minutes to prepare for a tough battle. Battlefield recorder. Don't shoot first. You aim at the first one on the right. I'll be the first one on the left. Get down and shoot. Come on, kid. Wei, get in the car, I cover and lie down, walk around in danger, get in the car, walk around, chase away, chase away, chase Tong Wei, organize a counterattack, hide and lay down Tong Wei Power, fire suppression, understand Bravo2, Bravo2. I am Eagle. The threat from your rear has been eliminated. I am escorting you. I wish you a safe return to the station. Well done. The medical team did not arrive. The evacuation mission was not completed. We originally had ten The hostages include seven investigators from the China-Canada investigation team, one of their drivers, a translator, and a Calinan police officer. Now we have captured a Chinese female doctor and the chief engineer. This engineer is very important. With him in our hands, we will still be there. Even if we have the funds to make a comeback, we will suffer a temporary setback, so I have arranged two speedboats. If our next action fails, we will take this person with us. We will take this person with us to retreat to the mountains upstream of Lake Altay. Now we will see how the Kalinan government responds to our request. There are still thirty-six hours left. If they refuse, even the dam and the hostages will be safe. Are you sure that the explosion will be effective? We have set up twelve explosives and activated the most advanced electronic detonation devices in case the electronic detonation fails. Our brave soldiers They will use their lives to complete the detonation mission. This fireworks will definitely bring a grand carnival to Kalinan. It will also make this ugly world remember that our Kalinan government has requested military assistance from the United Nations. A request for military assistance was made by China and Amireco to prevent extremists from destroying the dam and rescuing the hostages. This peacekeeping military operation was specifically organized and implemented by UNICA to control the lake area and annihilate extremist organizations. All peacekeeping teams participated in this peacekeeping operation. Next, I will reiterate the mission of this combat mission. The first is to prevent the Eagle of the Mountains from blowing up the dam. The second is to rescue the twelve hostages. Everyone, please remember that the key to this combat mission is to stop the terrorists from blowing up the dam as soon as possible . I just got the latest news on the phone. Bandisha Airport was occupied by rebels an hour ago. This is the only airport in Kalinan that can take off and land large transport aircraft and passenger planes. Turn left and run. Do you know who this person is? According to reliable information, before dawn. This Ekelamu entourage will enter the Bandisha Airport with three pickup trucks. This just provides us with an opportunity to enter the airport. Get out of the car and move the tree trunks. Do you hear that? Go down. Hey, put down the gun. Put down your gun. Stop. What? What happened on the road, what happened, because, because, because, because of these Chinese soldiers, Fabric, Fabric, the gate of Bandisha Airport has been occupied by me. The fighter planes of Amrik State have approached Bandisha Airport and are waiting for coordinate confirmation. Echo2, Echo2 is launched. Coordinates, transmit coordinates. Receive Echo2 and call Echo1. Laser guidance has been launched to confirm the coordinates. Echo1 has been sent. Echo1 Echo1Echo1. Amirico fighter planes have arrived at Bandisha Airport and are on standby to attack Fabric1. Call Ice Blade Fabric1. Call Ice Blade Ai. The military helicopter in Kairamu has been destroyed by Echo and Albanian fighter planes. Fabric1 calls Ice Blade. Echo1 reports that Bandisha Airport has been captured by me and we are now searching for and suppressing the remaining enemies. Great reception. Everyone is ready to parachute. Everyone is there. Prepare to skydive. Fabric received the message and understood that the time is now 5:52:33 in the morning. Bravo has arrived at the target and is now in position. Bravo understands the coordinates of the target point and has launched Delta. The entire team is in place and is ready. Ice Blade, Ice Blade Alpha2, A suspected detonating device was discovered and inspection began for Alpha2. A suspected detonating device was discovered and inspection began I'll give you a preferential price, Dese, and then Dese Alpha2 Bravo1. It won't end anymore. The bathroom in the team will be the eternal chat room for you two. I received it, Ice Blade Bravo1. My guess is correct. I found multiple detonation points, which means there are many explosive points. The circuit is more complicated and needs to be removed manually. It is time-consuming. It is recommended to destroy the controller Ice Blade externally. If the Ice Blade continues forward, there are still 860 meters left. Yes, yes. Stop knocking on the iron door. It's a shame. I wish you a happy day, brother. Let's move the game first. It's time for me. Hey brother, wait, wait, the boss may need these people alive. What are you afraid of? He has no intention of letting them go back alive. It's time for me. Alpha, the whole team is in place. The hostages have been found. Test, test Charlie. , the coordinates of the whole group are in place, coordinates have been sent to confirm that the Falcon is ready to attack Alpha, Bravo Charlie Delta Echo, all five Falcon groups are in place, the timeline has been adjusted, the error is zero, received quickly, pick up the weapon in your hand and return it What are you waiting for? The jihad has begun. What are you waiting for? Come on, hurry up. We are under attack. Immediately blow up the abandoned power plant. How will we escape? If you are still thinking about escaping, you will never win this battle. Immediately blow up the abandoned power plant. What should I do if the power plant's dam was blown up? The tool house was blown up and failed to detonate. The tool house was blown up and failed to detonate. The Bandisha Airport was also secured. There was no other way but the last resort. This is the ultimate killer weapon. No one can prevent it. Now we need bait and bait. What is the bait that attracts them Fayed Alkelamu It's time for you to sacrifice for the eagle of the mountains Abandon the dam, abandon the dam and attack Bandisha Airport Platoon Commander Hu, Platoon Commander Hu Platoon Commander I am not dead, Hu Pai Chang Ice Blade I am Delta1 Ekelamu is not in the target building Delta1 Ice Blade received Alpha group to continue searching for Ekelamu Check inside the building to see if there is a secret passage to evacuate Fabric1 I am Ice Blade asked Hawkeye to call Skyhawk 3 to assist Delta1, and the pursuit of Aikelamu was completed. Fabric1 received that the captain's exit has been blocked by the rebels. What should I do? Let's see if we can leave. Captain, no problem. Ai Lin, Zhang Xiaoyun, escort all the hostages. When we get to the Zhiba boarding point, our first priority is to ensure the safety of everyone. Follow me, follow me. Wang Meng, come with me to change the magazine. Captain, don't move. Please, help me. I don't want to die. Captain, how about Zhang Qi Zhang Qi Zhang? Captain Qi, he actually has two detonators. Please help me. I can't die, I can't die. Please, please pay attention to all groups. I am the Blade of Ice. It has been discovered that the hostage Feng Yuanqing was kidnapped by terrorists and a human body bomb was defused by visual inspection. The explosive device is difficult. I ordered all members of the Alpha team to immediately track down Ekelamu and rescue the last hostage, Lin Junjiao. After the other teams completed their mission, they immediately supported the Alpha team, Ice Blade, to be responsible for dismantling the bomb. This operation was carried out by Echo1, taking over from me. After commanding each team to hear this, they immediately replied to the captain, I'll stay and help you, captain, go, go, don't go, save me, save me, don't shout, I'm here, you can do it alone, okay, hurry up, I don't want to die, You know, do n't move around and try to think of other things in your mind. You're so interesting. What time has it been? I'm thinking of other things. What am I thinking of? You just think that if you die, the money you earned will be gone. It's a waste of time. As for us Chinese soldiers, the most important thing for leaders like you is to keep the danger to yourself. You won't leave it here, brother. If you save me, you wo n't have to do this hard work. My brother and I will share the money equally. Do n't touch it. This bastard Aikelamu took all the money away. It's all in US dollars. That's our company's project money. You should hurry up. We don't have time. Hurry up. Hurry up. , come on, I, I hold it, I can't hold it, I count one, two, three, cut it with me, I don't dare, if you want to live, you have to save yourself, understand, very good, the fifth yellow line on the left follows Let me come together. Do you understand? I cooperate with me. I cooperate. As long as you don't die, I will cooperate with your shouting. I listen to you and it 's still on. You have to save me. You let me go. I can't let you go. Let you go. You should throw me away. If I don't take this last thread here, if you don't let go, how will I cut it? My brother, you have to save me, you must save me. There is no time. There are eight seconds left. Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up. Four seconds, three seconds, I'm not dead, I'm still alive, my savior, why do n't you leave? Move the Ice Blade, Ice Blade Fabric reported that drone surveillance found Fahal's location G2. The closest to this position is Bravo1 Bravo1 I am the Ice Blade and take action immediately to capture Fahal. Charlie2 is ready to sniper to rescue the last hostage captain. You're injured. I'm fine. I'll send someone to take Feng Gong to the Zhiba boarding point right away. Come on, Xiao Zhao, go and make sure Feng Gong goes safely. Yes, I'm fine. If you don't want to die, don't get close. Otherwise, I'll blow her head off. Is it for the eagles of the mountains? If not, the eagles of the mountains are already dead. I, Fayed, this woman, the guardian of Aqela Mugalinan, and this dam will die with me. Come on, shoot, come on, shoot. I, come on, your son Emil was injured by the explosion of the Chinese medical team who saved you. He has three broken ribs, bilateral traumatic wet lung septal muscle injury, right upper limb middle finger fracture and nerve damage. Stop talking, shut up. He has been sent to a medical station in China. We have connected his ribs, used a ventilator to help him breathe, and connected the nerves in his upper limbs. He woke up once in the middle and moved his fingers a few times. He is learning piano. He is only nine years old. He loves piano. He plays well. He said he wants to be a pianist in the future. Don't shoot. Yes, he is still alive, but his fingers are not as flexible as before. He needs his father to tell him personally that even if he cannot become a pianist, he can still be very good in the rest of his life. Wonderful, how can you make me trust you? He has a ribbon. The blue ribbon on his right wrist is a mascot, right? You gave it to him, right? Feed that Chinese soldier. How is the child I asked you to protect now? He is safe. In the hands of UNICA, so Emil is still alive. He is in the hands of UNICA. Do n't shoot. Don't move. Eagles of the mountains or heroic warriors. Go and catch him. Go and catch him. Zhang Qi, you are injured. Why are you injured? I'm sorry. Am I late? Without Captain Zhang Qi, Zhang Qi has already contacted the embassy. A commercial plane is waiting for these five people in Surya. We can only evacuate to Surya first and then transfer to a Chinese civil airliner to return home. Send Zhang Qi back together to understand how the arrangement is going. The two lines of defense are fine. Captain, how is it? He lost too much blood and may have damaged internal organs. Doctor Lin has already given him a blood transfusion, but he still has to be sent to a big hospital. The big hospital is right for Gary. Is there any decent big hospital in the south? Don't worry, the embassy has already contacted us for help. Let's go, go to the tower. I think we need to keep some people down to prevent the enemy from breaking into the runway to ensure that the plane takes off safely. You are very thoughtful, boy, you can do it now. Let's go , then, then I'll stay. Then there's no need to say anything. Just remember to guard the airport passage and he won't let him escape. Fabric calls Echo1. If you hear it, please answer. Fabric calls Echo1. If you hear it, please answer. I am Echo1, I am Echo1. Please tell me that drone surveillance shows that about 30 rebel fighters in two pickup trucks are rapidly maneuvering towards Bandisha Airport at a speed of 50 to 60 kilometers per hour. They are still 23 kilometers away from the airport and there are still 23 kilometers left. Echo1 collects Come on, get it, hurry up, hurry up, Xiaotian, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up. Disha Airport was attacked by the enemy. The rebels have heavy weapons and requested Falcon air support. Echo1 Echo1. The Falcon is escorting 0795 and is now rushing to the target area. Captain Captain Captain Captain Lin woke up. Doctor Lin asked me to see Zhang Qi Zhang Qi Zhang Qi. Captain, I'm fine. Be careful. Captain, be careful. Don't get up. Don't get up. Everyone, sign up and give your name. Captain, let everyone sign up in turn. Come in quickly. Hu Nan, Tong Wei, Ailin, Zhou Lei, Ran Canghua, Zou Chuan, Wang Meng, Zhao Chengjing, Cheng Zhe, Zhang Xiaoyun, Feng Yuanqing, Ye Fei, Lin Junjiao, Qi Xiaotian, where is Qi Xiaotian, Xiaotian Xiaotian, Xiaotian, hurry up, come here , Qi Xiaotian, come here, the captain is calling you. Captain Xiaotian, captain, captain, captain, I'm here, are you okay? You brat, why don't you sign up? They're all here. Fahale is dead, don't worry. Now I can have a good sleep . No, Zhang Qi, you can't sleep. You can't sleep. Captain Zhang Qi can't sleep. Hold on, Zhang Qi. Zhang Qi, wake up. Captain, you can't sleep with Zhang Qi , Zhang Qi, why did Zhang Qi fall asleep? It's so cold today and it's easy to catch a cold. I'm so annoyed that I'm so failed that I read you to sleep. No, no, no. It's not your problem. You read so much. It sounds so hypnotic. Isn't it just a war? It's been half a year. These propaganda officers are still reporting on this topic. Why are they so boring? The deeds of heroes and models in the war are written with their lives. We should vigorously publicize these heroic deeds. The fewer heroic deeds there are, the more peaceful the world will be. You are good, good, good, everything you said is right. If you feel that our own reports are not interesting, I will read you an interesting one. Take a look at the International Peacekeeping Organization and look at the International Peacekeeping Organization. How does the organization praise you? The data is quoted from the peacekeeping annual report of the United Nations Mission in Canada. S. In this peacekeeping and hostage rescue operation, the Chinese Blue Helmets not only rescued 12 hostages from China and Canada, successfully completed the evacuation mission of their own countries, but also saved Altai, Al The Taylor Lake Dam, the Altay Lake Eurasian Railway, the South-South Railway Bridge in Kalinan, and the southern section of the railway bridge have protected the lives and property safety of 312 households in Kalinan in Tutubulu Town, demonstrating China's style and responsibility as a responsible big country. It shows China's determination, courage and strength in safeguarding world peace. Don't read it. It's just a commendation. The tone is boring. Pan Ye and Qi Xiaotian have withdrawn from the country for such a long time and they didn't say anything. Come and see if my gang is okay. You are heartless and not righteous at all. Do you know how many times you have been reported to be critically ill in the past six months? In order to let you rest at ease and recover, Chief of Staff Ling asked that no one come to visit you all the time for fear of affecting your rest and affecting your treatment. This has been half a year. , it's like confinement, don't be anxious, just recover slowly. Although the effect of the first two treatment plans is not ideal, the hospital will soon come out with a third set of plans. In addition to your rehabilitation training during this period, your injury has recovered well. It's already very good, and it won't have much impact on my daily life in the future. It's still an old problem. Why do you clenched your fists when you lie? I'm just Lin Lin. It does n't matter. Tell me the truth. I can do it. You were injured this time by a gunshot wound. The body suffered a lot of damage before. The symptoms of Guillain-Barre syndrome caused by the compromised immune system reappeared repeatedly. It is difficult to return to the previous physical condition with new injuries and old injuries. Your body is now unable to adapt to the high-intensity training of front-line troops. After the mission, you must be very careful in your daily life. Zhang Qilin, thank you. I'll go back and take a rest. Zhang Qi is here. Everyone, hurry up and get ready. Sit down. Stand up and sit down. Political Commissar, please say a few words. I'm very sorry that Comrade Zhang Qi has not recovered from his injury. I am hospitalized and cannot attend today's meeting. Comrades, Pot Jarhead has gone through one year and eight months from its establishment to today. It has been a day full of wind and rain. From the first day when your captain Zhang Qi founded it, he was warned that &quot; Pot&quot; Hijab has no organization. It is an experimental force. What is experimental is that everything about it, from organization to training to rules and even its own destiny, is a game of chess that cannot be seen clearly by others. Even the chess player himself does not know it. Where does its destiny go? Whether it leads to glory or dies midway, whether it goes down in history or remains unknown. To be honest, the brigade commander and I are both sweating for Jarhead. Fortunately, there is Zhang Zhang. Because of you and you, Jarhead has survived. Not only has he survived, but he has also developed the strongest energy and spirit. In this year and eight months, Jarhead has used his own combat effectiveness to sharpen the combat effectiveness of the Red Army and his indomitable spirit. Jarhead who has tempered everyone around him is the real strong and undefeated division of the Chinese army. Now, please let the brigade commander announce the latest adjustments to Jarhead's establishment and personnel appointments. Just now, I was looking at the wall outside. The eight words &quot; Because you are here, I am here&quot; make me think more and more, and the more I watch, the more flavorful it becomes. It truly expresses the essence of our Jarhead. Because the Red Army is here, the Blue Army is here because the comrades are here, so the friendship is there because the people are here. So the army is here because the motherland is here, so you and I are very happy. One year and eight months ago today, Comrade Wang Xuebing, the political commissar, and I approved Zhang Qi's plan to form a Jarhead. Today, I am also very happy that I will personally announce that I have been approved by my superiors. The special warfare unit directly under the brigade will be officially expanded from today to a brigade. Commonly known as Guojiatou, it is still a regular battalion. Now I announce that the chief officer of the Guojiatou brigade has appointed Comrade Zhang Qi, the first brigade leader, Comrade Che Zhiguang, and the first instructor, Comrade Ma Dangxian, to the deputy commander. The captain is Comrade Qin Chuan. The captain of the first team is Comrade Cheng Zhe. The captain of the second team is Comrade Wang Meng. The captain of the third team is okay. Xiaotian, I see you are now walking five kilometers every evening. It is very violent. You are now completely reborn as the captain. Hospital It's been more than half a year since I've been there. Being comfortable is like suffering . It's roasting. I know you can't stand it anymore. Your whole body is itchy, right? I'll call you here to relax your muscles and bones. We two brothers. Have a good fight, come up, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, I can't fight anymore. This is not like what you Zhang Qi said. People should do whatever they have to do. I am a pilot, and I should do that. I'm an airborne special forces pilot. I should parachute and charge. But when I no longer have the ability to do all this, I should step back and try to do what I can. What do you think? I'm telling you, do n't you think I'm okay? It is suitable for writing. I plan to study military theory and write a book. I have already thought of the title of the book. I have already thought of the title of the book. It is called Soaring to the Sky and Stunned Thousands. The title of the book is very grand. Who told me why men don't take Wu? Hook up the fifty states of Guanshan. Are you willing to put down your guns? Stop the war. There are many ways to maintain peace besides guns.