Welcome to Beermerica, where a beer can beer, Sorry. I did not rent a bar for this video, but cheers to Storyblocks who sponsored The story of beer in America is huge, like so huge that plotting the breweries in So let's just look at one In 1980, there was one locally owned Which, according to a review, after the "improve the beer!" Now look at Oregon's craft doesn't just explain American beer--it explains (Angry Eagle SFX) To kind of amazing. "All beers look good." I spoke to an economist about American of your paper, actually. How American Beer Got So Bland." international scope of this story I've got three types of beer in my and none of them are even an IPA, the best type it's a pretty close second. American beer started out Philadelphia and Boston were the colonial Philadelphia and Boston had British influenced That's why I picked a darker beer, like Those were just more common. Few of the beers that later became dominant. Ales and porters but a glass. Beer wasn't really shipped, to taverns. Homebrewing, "every man his own Honestly though, I could have picked a glass because America wasn't really a nation of there was no refrigeration. So, "I can't imagine you or I would have You know, so often it just would This chart shows gallons per person drunk up a fair amount of cider, until a way down here. But over the next 50 years, Do you have a favorite, like, chart in particular that ended up being your fave? it. Well, beer is percentage of alcohol. black line. That's really the key one. gallons of absolute alcohol consumed per capita. I'll argue that a hundred years through a few ways. How did this transform American beer? lager flavor like the lid on a stein used I do want to tell you about today's sponsor, for supporting this channel. If you don't and motion templates for video makers, and it It's a subscription plan. So this incentivizes you know, rebuttal to my beer-splainer. The last map explainer I did, I I got a nice exterior shot, but the sequence drone shot could have, if I just made use of utilize it for this video, the intro, all that. and also they gave me a nice retro television So to go ahead and get started with go over to Storyblocks.com/philedwards, or Storyblocks. Now let's go to Pennsylvania. up in Philadelphia by brewmaster John Wagner. more drinkable than stouts and ales. It was also was started by a German immigrant from near Sometimes the lagers were darker bocks, like in This correlated with German immigration. the 1800s. You can see that it peaks in And Germans brought with them a taste for German are kind of informative for this earlier period. became a beer epicenter, and so did St. was a rare exception to the lager rule. It was the largest brewery was a largely local I spent high school and college in Wisconsin, ordered a Budweiser before. Now I have a 12 pack entire culture, but, but, I think this is the the B in the Anheuser Busch label, was beer brewed here. People speculate that this is to America. And if you look on the Bud label, it more palatable. Pilsners don't have to be "And some of the big brewers like Budweiser, adding corn and rice, it wasn't really a way more palatable and smoother. You know, blander." smoothness that only beechwood aging can deliver." it in and just, watering down the lockers? people really don't want a dark lager." "I remember them in the 80s. You know, Michelob Dark. Those were kind of niche." I know. Dark beer. It's bitter. It's for thick Dark. Full bodied taste: that's Michelob smooth." but I'm actually gonna read you this If you are suffering from sleeplessness brand of our favorite brew, the American Pilsner the world for its superior, stimulating Busch make a doctor's services superfluous. that their services make a doctor unnecessary. thanks to rail, bottling, pasteurization. Busch really big. The growth of Pabst is also but between 1879 and 1884, they started Pittsburgh. By 1893, they'd grown hugely, Beer production consolidated, number of breweries 1900s, beer had become a big, big thing. lagers and Germans. By World War I, the German sentiment and anti beer sentiment brewed together. Let's move on. that the brewers are performing going into "Yeah, I mean, that's why the paper's main title I think even today somewhat, was I mean, I think it's silly, like, if you've ever know, it's certainly possible to drink beer slowly also possible to do that with whiskey, or rum." the industry, it kind of concentrated and Pilsner style made by just a few big brewers. concerns like soda making "The lid is off in many places, being celebrated in real old time hilarity." from selling their own beer by a Producers weren't allowed to sell their like those old taverns, were basically banned. beer. People were worried about a potency war. In "If they're like most people today, they like a All this regulation promoted concentration among drinkability of the American pilsner. The foamy of the uniform approach to beer. "The head is light and creamy." Later pivots went to light beer, wanted better beer. So how did it get better? a surrogate for the craft beer movement. It's got a local collab, it's not a lager, and it's How did we get to this totally the Federal Trade Commission released a had dropped in number over the past 15 years. "When Mick and I played together, we were known "Light beer from Miller. Everything But it was starting to change. In California And that inspired breweries like Inker Brewing two home brewers. Around that time in 1978, a snuck home brewing legalization into a bill. were suddenly interested in making and even just that came when states started passing their own beer. Let's go back to Oregon the law and discussing the exact "And the whole purpose of this was that be able to sell some of their product on brewery to craft brewery." "Oh, I see, I see." to the brewpub, and then have a And as this map shows, that is exactly than the German lager. Because that's what So I lied to you. I've got a fourth 'cause it's gonna keep telling this story. it featured tons of agricultural geography. parts of the world, I think it's clear that But these maps are really about the of regulation. From British and Dutch beer, to craft brews. You know, what do you think is the "One is just, like, kind of on a personal level, why are you such a snob? I mean, people this guy's just a craft beer snob, I drink. I like Utica Club, I like Modelo." a beer imported from Mexico. It's surpassed the But I bet it won't be the last beer on stay the same, beer never will. Not Hey, that's it for this video. Thank you for I do videos like these, exploring history of affects the way we live. And I didn't realize that craft beer was, you know, just a piece of this If you want to see me mapsplain something uh, let me know what you think would be good. I is the first one that I really wanted to do, I have a newsletter and a Patreon. Both of I put in an article about something that didn't this week I think it's pretty interesting. became deadly. So go ahead and go It's hosted on Patreon, but it's free to sign up, And you can also see a reaction video on Patreon Otherwise, thank you so much for watching. Thank know your favorite beer in the comments. do we have people who only, you know, want am I an old man for liking IPAs? Is that, is your perspective is on this. Maybe there's a So yeah, um, let me know and