This is Justin DeLoretto, aka Mooch. I was a chapter president of and a member of the Vagos Motorcycle Club. This is how crime works. Motorcycle clubs are pretty We all came together for The downside is the motorcycle clubs we're going to keep and be on watch lists. The Mongols have a saying that's, &quot;Respect few; fear none.&quot; They don't have a lot of and they don't fear anybody. The Mongols started in East The original members because of Genghis Khan and the Mongol Horde that And so that was kind of the goal of the Mongols Motorcycle Club, was they were a horde that and taking over the country. Not only did I have to get but I had to do an interview and had to get voted in by them too. And the mother chapter is the original founding chapter of the club. When I first started there were six members, and but I was elected the president. I started a lot of new chapters. Every chapter in Oregon I most of Washington. So, once you became a full-patch you were given that one-percenter diamond. The one-percenter diamond designated that we were one of the We were bigger than those other clubs. Initially, the one-percenter definition was the 1% of the motorcycle clubs that didn't abide by the rules of the American Motorcyclist Association. It's changed over the years, and it's more of those that have that designation now. On the front of their vest, Then below it would say the chapter you were in, and at the top, black and white bars. They were called officer bars. That meant you were an I think the Mongols are very militant, and a lot of that comes from but as eras progressed, they had veterans from all of the wars. So a lot of ex-soldiers And then you also get a lot So they come from structured, rule-based environments as well. And so they maintain a very high structure and a very militant structure. You know, a lot of that's but it's also a presence, so that it makes it so that other clubs don't want to mess with that you're ready for it at any time. By the time I had joined the Mongols, they were heavily in war and the Mexican Mafia. And so the risks that came And so there was the but also kind of the fear and The Hells Angels have been pretty much from day one, and there's been times of peace but never cordial coexistence. As the Mongols started they were showing up to the same places as the Hells Angels. The Hells Angels were the so there was a lot of ego involved. And the Mongols used that said &quot;SoCal,&quot; for where the Hells Angels were that had one that said &quot;California.&quot; So the Mongols decided a California bottom rocker, and they've pretty much been Ruben &quot;Doc&quot; Cavazos was of the Mongols up until early 2008. And then he was arrested in And then during that indictment, he ended up becoming an informant and turning against the club. And then he went into witness protection after he got out of prison. Doc had instigated and organized a lot of the criminal activity. And then when he was facing time for it, he decided to tell on everyone which were primarily doing One of the things that Doc was telling the club to go to war. You know, when we would it was to the point where and someone would generally and there would be So, it happened more common Generally we'd try and have Often the membership was there so even if you might have you're generally getting pulled out or people are protecting you. But there's always the guys that stay armed in case anyone So it's pretty structured in that regard. But I would say primarily my biggest thing was that I was always the one or cool things out, stop A lot of the times, the clubs, we would try and speak We did sit-downs with the and we would try and just keep So I think all the clubs are working to try and not let that and even though they might it's expected, obviously, so. You don't want to be that member that ran into a Hells Angel There's a lot of stuff in the news where, you know, Hells Angels or shot at the gas It was pretty common to hear about people getting shot off Having peace with the would be difficult. Too many members were killed There's a lot of hostilities and anger and I think still a lot of ego, where one club thinks they're bigger or better than the other. My brother Rambler that was killed was stabbed at a taco And then Little PK from the Bay Area was out riding his bike until he was found in the mountains with a bullet in his head then. So it was things like than big group fights or public fights. The Mongols have bylaws So the chapter sometimes and then the national rules, So, like, everyone had to and everyone had to There was a national rule that no one could sell In my regions, you weren't You couldn't ever do something in jeopardy of getting And that all came to a head in 2008 when Doc Cavazos was initially in bad standings for The membership of his cabinet were the ones in charge of the money, in charge of the books, but we're talking hundreds I mean, he stole a lot and the club members. There was some members that and then a lot of it came down to the murders and the shootings that it became a racketeering charge. A lot of their rules were and they have rules that no you have to be a 21-year-old and most of the time you You couldn't sleep with a I generally don't use the term &quot;old lady.&quot; It's a pretty old term, and as a social worker, I know within the Mongols, if you were a wife or they would wear a patch that said, &quot;Property of,&quot; and then the member's name. And I know public perception of that would be that they're the club's property. But the reality of that just they know that girl's here with somebody and don't talk to her or don't hit on her or, you know, make sure Once I came into leadership, I had a rule for all the that every member had to at least work out three days a week. Now, whether that was lifting everyone had to train and To stay active, for one reason. To spend positive time with but also to stay skilled and ready. Producer: Some chapters have been involved in like extortion and What's your opinion about that? Most of that happened prior to 2008. We had that rule that you and everyone had to have a full-time job. And so there were still that were doing it, but no and it wasn't being done on a club level. When I was younger, I started From there, I got into the which was, essentially, it was a gang. It didn't exist for any monetary value, it was more based off violence and keeping the neo-Nazi in our area. And I think since we were involved in kind of gang life already, that the motorcycle clubs attracted us. I started out with a small in Portland, Oregon, in about 2004. And I was only a prospect for a few months before I moved to Nevada. That was just expected. I would go down and clean the That first process is called and you're generally for about a year. And that getting to know the you know, just spending After that year, you would be asked if you'd be interested in prospecting. And the goal of that really and rules of the club. Depending that's anywhere from six months And then from there, you and that's when you start to have a vote in chapter meetings, which we called church, In the early years, called the Prospect where they'd have to do Drink a bunch of alcohol and sing a song, climb a tree and cluck like a rooster. Like, silly things, right? And my generation, I And my goal was that prospecting should be to learn the protocol of the club, to really learn if this understand how the club goes. I moved to Carson City, Nevada, in about 2005, and shortly after there, I joined the Vagos. I was a probationary And the same thing when I started the first chapter and so I was a probationary member and didn't have to prospect. A few months after joining, I got &quot;Mongols&quot; tattooed really big across the back of my head with a skull, with the kind of Mongol logo. I have, &quot;Respect few; fear I have a lot of other club tattoos. But when I retired from the I didn't want to represent something that I was no longer in. One of the biggest is trying to get the out-of-state And so we would want to throw They started being like, one party would have some strippers at it, so then the next chapter they had more at theirs, or, you know, people were And one of our bigger parties which, the whole Hilton and it would just be like Like, it looked like &quot;MTV Spring Break.&quot; So, I mean, it would get pretty wild. You know, I mean, it was a party, and I'm sure people were but it wasn't, nothing would But you know, the biggest we were getting to see the guys from the other chapters or other states and we were getting to So, you know, it was just a sitting around talking about bikes and catching up for the most part. Are you asking, like, after the Mongols? Yeah, I would say generally it's because of You know, if there's or someone's getting and I think that's a big part of it. There were some federal that introduced some federal So there was four undercover So, you know, initially who brought in more, and that brought in the ATF agents, but there was dozens of during that era under Doc. Operation Black Rain was, some undercover agents from the ATF had patched in and joined the Mongols, made full-patch member. And for several years, witnessing crimes, also It concluded in 2008. Members had been arrested I had just joined the club in 2007. I hadn't a lot of interaction However, all the Oregon like federally raided by the so it was search warrants. I had some informants in my I was very new and naive to club life, and I only thought in And there was some guys we had a no-meth rule, and I had taken them to rehab and was trying to clean them up, and the whole time they were getting paid to try and inform on our chapter. Now, we weren't doing anything illegal, so we never got in trouble for any of it. But during Black Rain, it came out that these guys were active They would ask members to provide security during a drug deal, and it selling fake drugs to And they were getting of carrying a firearm in a drug deal or providing security during drug deals, but they weren't real drug deals. One of the undercover agents, he had asked me to do security but I immediately told him no that I thought the dude might be a cop because a random member and was asking me to do some It was a pretty big red flag. I believe many undercover agents want to glorify their time in club and make it sound more I've seen firsthand that many of times they enjoyed the partying, and taking advantage of the and they got the benefits of it, but they wanted it to sound dangerous. In 2008, there was a newspaper about the Mongols being and how the local clubs weren't And essentially it was saying that there was this big biker war coming. So at the time, things were pretty tense. The other motorcycle clubs in Oregon had tried to attack us before. There was a lot of from law enforcement. A carload of some were pulled over with guns and ammunition, and they said they were looking for us. So we were all on pretty high alert. And the day that article came out, an all-black SUV was driving You know, my first thought wasn't necessarily it was anything bad, but when they started running from me, you know, I obviously started thinking, well, maybe I should follow these guys and see where they're going. And they went to this and parked out front. And it was a club that we So, when they got back on the interstate, they were going back towards my house, so I decided, I'm going And so I radioed ahead and called some other members the club, and we were all in cars, So at one point we'd been and we started to almost box them in. We put a car in front of and a car next to them. It started in Turner, and ended about 60 miles south in Eugene. I had pulled into a parking lot, and the SUV pulled in facing me, but they wouldn't get out of the car. They didn't want me to see And shortly thereafter, and there was about 20 cops and I was drawn out and handcuffed. And it turned out that it was a ATF agent and a Eugene police detective. And for following them, I ended up being charged and conspiracy to commit kidnapping. I was held on a $14 million bail. It ended up being $1 million which didn't matter, right, at that point. And I fought that case for about 90 days in the Lane County jail. And I was found not guilty eventually, but what I did get found guilty of was the reckless driving for chasing them. And so I ended up of felony gang probation even though it was a misdemeanor charge. And part of that was I with the Mongols or my twin brother. And I still stayed very and I kept associating so I went back to jail numerous of that part of my probation. Club life's still pretty active in prison, but you normally, it's a active member that got arrested for something, and then the clubs kind of stick together once they're in prison. So all the bikers and hang out together in but there's not a lot of recruiting going on within the prisons. The Mongols and Pagans have for a very long time. And the Pagans have helped the Mongols expand on the East Coast And another kind of dynamic is the Outlaws and Pagans don't get along. And so, as the Mongols got closer and more relationships with the Pagans, it deteriorated relationships The main issue with the Outlaws came when I started a chapter in Illinois. When I moved to Illinois, I told them I had no interest because I didn't. But, More people became interested. I started chapters in their areas, and they thought I was their friend, and it looked like I had Tug was a member of the So when I moved there, that was the first and we got very close. And at one point, the Outlaws had thrown and he was wanting to join the Mongols. And we were still very close and we had an agreement any of their ex-members. And so I told Tug he couldn't join, but the Pagans were and they were taking And so Tug ended up joining the And apparently some Outlaws had said, &quot;Yeah, and we're going to get Mooch next.&quot; Or they had said something And so one of the times that they had a duty to warn and protect, so they had to tell me about it. Blane's a tougher one. Blane, his nickname was Scoops. He was a young kid that, when he was contacting me a lot, And I put it off. I put I didn't think it was for him. He seemed like a good kid, and he was really young. And he came to this event spend the weekend with me. And I ended up getting and I really liked the kid. He did jujitsu, he was ex-military. We had a lot in common. And in order to get into the Boogie, you had to wear this wristband. You had to put this And because he was so happy he wore that. He never So he ended up joining our He did a really good job with there. He became the president, and he ended up patching And there was a club there that kept saying the Mongols they weren't going to let us there. The first time they said to a biker event there in town and showed up to show them that, you know, we could be there anytime, and things kind of fizzled out. We had some meetings, they said they were going to be hands-off, and then at a bike night, they showed up and they I was out to dinner with the because he was a member And he had said Blane had been shot and they didn't know So I called my wife, told and I started heading And his dad went down to the And there was, you know, but his arm was hanging out, and that was that wristband So that's how we were He was the only one that was and then two members of the Law enforcement's pretty heavy when something like that happens. And it was very public, and they got arrested right away. And then just recently, they and murder in aid of racketeering. I left the club in 2022. Lil Dave, the national had recently been removed from office. Him and his wife were going through some relationship issues, where it kind of sounded with an ATF agent, and she and they used it to make it look like he potentially could And they used that to so that other people could take his place. There was a lot of internal to who was going to replace him. They started changing some of the rules or some of the protocols I started feeling like because of the fact out-of-state representatives maybe I run for national president. So there was a lot of politics involved. Everyone knew I was loyal to Dave, so I wasn't feeling supported And at the same time, Scoops had just got killed, or Blane, you know, the Outlaws and it got to the point where I wasn't really so I didn't want to be half in. And so I chose. Initially and then my status later The status of out in bad standings was if you broke one of those major rules, you stole somebody's or you told on someone, not only were there no contact, but generally they wouldn't and you likely could get beat up. Nowadays it's used as It's just more of a no-contact order. So active members are no longer that's out in bad standing. There's a lot of people that I've sent down the road, so to speak, or kicked out of the and it's never something that's enjoyable because a lot of times it's or you've shared experiences with and it's sad to see them go. Yeah, I mean, obviously how things happened with Blane and Tug. You know, two close within a very short amount of time. At the same time, there and things were getting pretty serious. And then the biggest part was just knowing that being in leadership, that your actions could have dire consequences And I had this feeling in my stomach when I brought him into the club that he shouldn't be in the club. He had too much going for him. And so, yeah, there's a lot of guilt there that really forced me to &quot;Mondays with Mooch&quot; is where or interview people that And then I wrote a book, and the book is called Most of the stories within my book are, you know, time-period specific. So I go into detail of what and then how I got out The Mongols, you know, across the country around 2006 or 2007, so they're still new in a So they generally aren't the dominant club in a lot of areas. They might be the bigger club nationally, but they're not bigger in that area. When I joined the Mongols, there were already some Italy and Germany, I think Canada. When I was still a Vago, I had established a relationship called the Finks. They were one of the largest And at one point, they were deemed an They weren't allowed and so they decided that they wanted to potentially join another club so they wouldn't have to or those laws in Australia. They reached out to me, and I And so from there, a lot of to Thailand and Bali and Indonesia. And so they started The biggest thing that about the Mongols and was their focus on brotherhood. Coming from the Vagos, where the leadership in the Mongols So the goal was that everyone and whether you were a member we were all treated the same. And the uniformity of the where they have a dress and whether the member's or California, they should look the same and they're all running the same program, so it's a very structured organization. There was no financial In fact, it cost a lot of money. Being on the road, going to the runs, staying in the hotels, paying your chapter dues, So to make money, everyone had to have some sort of visible means There was paramedics, firefighters. I'm a social worker. There's monthly dues within the club, and then there's national dues Most of my chapters Funds that are used for or if we're having a party, or the entertainment or The way the Mongols are structured is each chapter typically has somewhere from six to 12 members. Some are larger, with up to 20 members. And then each specific Secretary; treasurer; a sergeant at arms, so his job is to enforce the rules and the bylaws of the chapter; and then the chapter president. In each either state or region, depending on how large the club is, there's one member that's or a state rep who oversees that area. And then almost everything is voted on by the he can make some but it's generally the decision And under Doc, that was when they were primarily recruiting and I think they were A lot of the members had or come from those gangs, and so there was more personal that the club butted heads more than it was any or stepping on toes for territory. Hi, I'm a producer on &quot;How Crime Works.&quot; If you enjoyed this video, then please subscribe and comment below with more ideas of topics in this series.