- Welcome back to the Deep Discog Dive. Is this the real life? Is this just fantasy? And why are those the only two options? I refuse to be limited in my choices. If I wanna exist in a liminal space outside of human comprehension, that also has a Dunkin' Donuts drive-thru, then I'm gonna do it as long as I can talk about Bicycle Race. Rip off! Today, we're talking about Queen. Let's dive in. (upbeat electronic music) (upbeat music) Our Bohemian Rhapsody begins A young man named Brian between going to school and playing with his band Smile. May was on guitar, Tim Staffell was on vocals, and Roger Taylor was on drums. In 1970, however, Staffell left Smile to form another band called Humpy Bong. Where could Smile find a replacement? Well, there was this one guy and a huge fan of Smile, Freddie Bulsara. It took some convincing on Freddie's end, but he was eventually brought into Smile. And for his first decree as frontman, the band changed its name to Queen. As Queen played gigs they cycled through various bass players before landing on John Deacon. And meanwhile, Freddie himself A line in their song, &quot;My Fairy King&quot; inspired him to change his name from Freddie Bulsara to Freddie Mercury. The band's first recording as a way for the engineers in the studio to test their equipment. One of the songs they recorded, was thought to have hit potential, so Queen shopped it around Soon enough, they signed a management deal with Trident Studios in exchange for use of The band finished their but Trident had difficulty They finally worked out in March 1973. One last bit to mention arts and crafts. Freddie put his art education to good use and made Queen a crest. Animals representing each (what a Virgo move) a crown for their British legacy, a Q for their favorite Mexican dish, and a phoenix because it's rad as hell. (upbeat electronic music) In July 1973, Queen released With the help of producer Queen serve up a hearty Once you get past the lacerations, it tastes pretty good. Tracks like &quot;Great King Rat&quot; and &quot;Liar&quot; pummel you with rock bombast. At the same time, a song is built off Freddie's And across the album, the band do a wonderful job playing with dynamic tension and release. For example, &quot;Doing All Right&quot; was written during the Smile days, and it's a lovely song. I enjoy the intimate verses, the vocal harmonies on the chorus, plus the heavier bridge. I also like how they close of a song called &quot;Seven Seas of Rhye,&quot; which will appear on their next album. It's the musical equivalent of doing a Next Time On segment. I will say though, I've never cared for I know it's the band's first single, and I don't think there's that would be a better first single, but I don't walk away from Like yeah, guys I've for 27 years now and look It may be rough, it may be raw, it may be other synonyms, but Queen's debut clearly the band had even this (upbeat electronic music) Critics liked Queen the album, and the small portion of enjoyed it as well. There was one review that praised the synthesizer when in reality those sounds being praised were just Brian using his This would lead the band to put in a No Synthesizers disclaimers I love saying things They got to work on their and three months later, they went out on their first tour supporting Mott the Hoople. The s-queen-quel to Queen, Queen II, released in March 1974. Like any good sequel, Queen II continues what was while expanding its conceptual horizons. Instead of a Side A and Side B, Queen has a Side White with mostly songs written by Brian May, and a Side Black with all Regardless of the side though, the band used this album to really immerse and it gives these songs a &quot;Father to Son&quot; lays out shifting between heavy metal throwdowns and piano-led balladry. Songs like &quot;White Queen (As It Began),&quot; &quot;Ogre Battle,&quot; and &quot;The show the band's ability to tell stories through not only their And like I said before, that tease of Seas appeased me with ease, and the full version delivers on that tease's promise. It has some of the contrasted beautifully I wish I could've been in the meeting where they decided to make just so I could cheer them on. One more note: Check out that cover. Neat isn't it? They should put that in Queen II is a fascinating look at another route Queen could've gone down, had they stuck more firmly to their fantasy metal beginnings. I've seen some say, &quot;This I strongly disagree. But it's still a special record, and one with a unique character that no other Queen record has. (upbeat electronic music) Queen went back on the this time with some dates in the US. However, shortly after it began, Brian May collapsed on stage and was later diagnosed with hepatitis. Queen called off their tour dates, and went back to the UK to While he was understandably Brian eventually rejoined Queen's third album, Sheer Heart Attack, was released in November 1974. This is not meant to but if you wanna know at what it's Sheer Heart Attack. It takes the band's core tenets and refines them in the sonic It's also where each member For example, &quot;Brighton Rock&quot; largely because it's just for Brian May's phenomenal guitar skills. What other song could soundtrack between Ansel Elgort and Jon Hamm? I can't think of any. &quot;Flick of the Wrist&quot; displays a lively joy in John Deacon's bass playing, &quot;Stone Cold Crazy&quot; barrels in speed thanks to Roger Taylor's commanding drums. And then there's Freddie, Freddie mcfricking Mercury. My favorite performance has to be lead single &quot;Killer Queen.&quot; I love &quot;Killer Queen.&quot; Am I biased because I in Guitar Hero I? Absolutely. Let me have my fun. It's such a precise demonstration of his playful yet singular vocal style, he sings melodies that but you're never gonna And don't worry, the same fantastical exhibitionism pops up on &quot;In The Lap of the Gods&quot; and &quot;Lily of The Valley.&quot; God this is a good album. Sheer Heart Attack is in a band's career where but leave you knowing that (upbeat electronic music) Sheer Heart Attack was the Killer Queen became a big hit in the UK and a mild disturbance in the US. And Queen finally got their in March 1974 on the UK The same show where David Bowie got his breakthrough early on. In fact, Queen were given the because Bowie had to cancel last minute. Queen had earned their spotlight, and it was time to make First off, they needed to be not broke. You see, the deal they had with from receiving the vast majority of profit earned from EMI's record sales. So while they were off touring Japan, they hired a lawyer to get them They eventually got out of that deal, and they signed directly and Elektra in the US. Work began on their next album, but stakes were higher than ever. Sure there was the pressure but the departure from They had to pay Trident 100,000 pounds, and they had to cancel a tour Well, it's a good thing recording for this new album. It was the most expensive Queen jumped around and took advantage of available to them. In November 1975, Queen With this album, Queen found the perfect setting This is where they perfected the campy yet heartfelt tone of their best work. Where they nailed making songs but felt so good to sing aloud. The opener&quot; Death on Two to their Trident contract, with an acerbic performance by Freddie backed up with dense choir vocals. &quot;You're My Best Friend&quot; most famous Queen songs, and it's since become the defacto song you use for movies and TV I watched all of &quot;I Now thinking Adam Sandler and and then they played and I was like, &quot;Oh.&quot; &quot;39&quot; and &quot;The Prophet's Song&quot; and they show the band into their process. &quot;Double bass on &quot;39&quot; and I also love the two-minute a cappella breakdown on &quot;Prophet.&quot; &quot;Lazing on a Sunday Afternoon&quot; are jolly showtune numbers displaying Freddie's On the other side of the keys though, there's &quot;Love of My Life,&quot; a song written for Freddie's In my personal opinion, But somehow, all of that pales in the face of the most well-known and probably the most well-known song in Queen's entire discography. (upbeat electronic music) Is this the real life Is this just fantasy - [MicTheSnare] So all the way he had written a ton of And he would continue toying all the way up to when on A Night at the Opera. All these pieces would be but Freddie wanted to into one six-minute opus. Said opus included an a cappella intro, tender lyrics about killing a man, a stellar guitar solo by Brian May, an operatic bridge name dropping Galileo, Scaramouche, and Bismillah, and one of the most glorious rock outros ever committed to tape. And boy did they commit By the time they finished the recording tape had been that it became nearly see-through. This song is an engineering marvel. &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody&quot; was selected by Queen as the lead single for Opera, but the label strongly pushed back. Now we can all collectively LOL and LMAO at them being concerned about the success of &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody,&quot; but at the time, it makes total sense that It's over six minutes long and it has Roger Taylor screeching Galileo at the top of his lungs. This song should not work. And yet, I'm willing to &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody&quot; changed something about your preconceptions Here's my example. In the intro, there's pan hard left and then hard right. Little high Little low - [MicTheSnare] I didn't before this song, and hearing that as a Not only is that sense of but the emotions within are delivered in such a universal way. Can you sit there with a straight face and tell me you don't feel So you think you can stop - [MicTheSnare] Name a name a scenario, and Polka? Life had just begun - [MicTheSnare] One ukulele? (upbeat ukulele music) A high school show choir with a teen girl giving birth? No, we will not let you go - [MicTheSnare] We don't need to find God, God needs to find us. There's a legitimate argument being the most popular song And in my opinion, it But I swear to God if I ever (upbeat electronic music) A Night at the Opera when it released, and &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody&quot; became a huge hit. It went to number one on the and it even went to number one in the US. Queen toured for six months afterwards, and in July 1976, they for a new album. This time without Roy Thomas Baker, as his contract with the band Taking his place somewhat though the album's production In December 1976, Queen went This one is often viewed as the companion to A Night at the Opera, The two albums have similar production, they're both named after They both have two piano-led But there are definitely Freddie once joked that was Brian's attempt to one-up I'm not about to say if he did, but it's a closer call &quot;White Man&quot; shows the band and political matters in their music, this time focusing on the Lead single &quot;Somebody to Love&quot; takes inspiration from and it makes incredible use of One of my favorite Queen singles. The closer &quot;Teo Torriate was based on the rapturous when traveling to Japan, and it has Freddie singing As a modern comparison, think of A Day at The Races It is certainly similar to the groundbreaking record before, but there's nothing wrong with and there's plenty of great material here for it to stand on its own. (upbeat electronic music) Queen were once again showered in acclaim for A Day at the Races However, there were some complaints that the album was too similar What do you mean, they're night and day. It didn't help that the was starting to change. Punk rock was blossoming in the UK thanks to bands like the Sex Pistols, and Queen's campy glam-rock So for their next album, the band decided to pare down their sound while still keeping the Also speaking of the Sex Pistols, at some point during recording, not only did Freddie and Sid but Johnny Rotten literally into the studio to say hi to Freddie. I mean, I would too, but... News of the World was &quot;We Will Rock You&quot; demonstrates the more accessible production The melody is mostly one note, the percussion is two stomps and a clap. Anyone can be a part of it which is why it's become a &quot;Fight from The Inside&quot; and I think he plays every The song is also, dancey. It's almost disco, I on that particular avenue. Along with the disco, there are a bunch of weird sparse funk on &quot;Get Down Make Love,&quot; Spanish guitar on &quot;Who Needs You,&quot; jazz piano on &quot;My Melancholy Blues.&quot; Punk rock on &quot;Sheer Heart Attack,&quot; which was meant to be but wasn't finished in time. It may not be as ornate or orchestrated as the past two albums, but News of The World could I've gotta say though, Why in the name of God the second track? You're telling me this song, one of the most triumphant a song that would be a perfect opening or closing track on an album is second? Make it make sense. That aside, News of Proof that Queen didn't need to be successful, they just needed an above (upbeat guitar music) (upbeat electronic music) At the time, News of The World Will anything make you people happy? Many critics saw it as a However in the years since, opinion has shifted, and now many see this as The tour for News ended in May 1978, with a new batch of recording But first the band had to get like tax evasion. In the face of a big tax bill, Queen bolted out of the UK, and set up shop in Montreux, Switzerland. They moved there thanks who had just recorded an album there. They enjoyed their time in Montreux, especially taking in the at events like the Montreux Jazz Festival. One of those words would In November 1978, Queen invented Jazz. Take the eclecticism of News of The World and just flood a recording studio with it. That's Jazz. At this point Queen had the to do... basically anything they wanted, which makes it surprising Roy Thomas Baker to produce, though this will be the last time he produces a Queen record. The album was teased with and &quot;Fat Bottomed Girls.&quot; &quot;Bicycle Race&quot; is a song Oh, and it also has meter changes, key changes, a bike bell breakdown, and entire verses where Freddie for leader of our nation. I rescind my vote then. It's a bonkers single &quot;Fat Bottomed Girls&quot; on the other hand is much simpler in its and in its lyrical matter. What I mean is, this is It's also cool that both songs there are lyrical references Fat bottomed girls They'll be riding today - [MicTheSnare] Plus the features 65 naked women on bicycles. Opener &quot;Mustapha&quot; has Freddie alternating between English and Arabic. &quot;Jealousy&quot; is another including what sounds like a sitar, but is actually Brian playing &quot;Don't Stop Me Now&quot; was and my favorite song on the It's a pure sonic injection of confidence, giving you the feeling to anyone and anything. I can close my eyes and with Simon Pegg in sync with the song. You wanna know my favorite It's the bit right before and Freddie sings this I'm traveling at the speed of light I wanna make a - It's the only time and I love it. And the closer &quot;More of That featuring an outro of snippets It reminds me of &quot;Duckworth&quot; But among all this wild weirdness, there was one song in particular &quot;Fun It,&quot; written by Roger Taylor. Now first off, the song has a chorus that wouldn't be out of place but the sound is something else. It's smooth and sparse and danceable, danceable in the same way but even moreso. I know I said it before, but is Queen gonna keep We'll find out in a bit, but for now, Jazz is another excellently (upbeat electronic music) This section contains so if you'd prefer not hear about that, feel free to skip ahead to the next album. Queen once again faced a mixed Like News of The World, Jazz would eventually but do you think Dave is gonna listen if you Of course not. His review of Jazz is infamous. Chances are, if you're familiar with Jazz, you know this review and &quot;Whatever its claims, Queen &quot;This group has come to make it clear &quot;exactly who is superior &quot;Its anthem, 'We Will Rock &quot;you will not rock us, we will rock you. &quot;Indeed, Queen may be the Now personally, I would have would seize the means of production, but to each their own, I guess. Regardless, Jazz sold plenty to celebrate. I haven't mentioned it yet, but Freddie was an insane party animal and some of his parties into the walls of rock history. The release party for Jazz in particular, with alleged reports of on plates strapped to their heads. Queen went out another to August 1979. You can hear this tour thanks to the band's Live Killers. Following the tour, Queen went out to Munich to with their new producer Reinhold Mack. And in June 1980, Queen released The Game. Okay let's start with the big guns first. (upbeat funky music) You know the sound that and &quot;Fun It&quot; were teasing? Well, here it is in all its glory. &quot;Another One Bites The Dust&quot; the sounds of disco and the clubs, and I gotta say, it works. Arguably John Deacon's and it shows in that legendary bassline. It's funny too, because the band initially didn't wanna put it out but were convinced to by Michael Jackson. &quot;Crazy Little Thing Called It's Freddie's homage to Elvis, though I've always on an early Beatles track. Regardless, I enjoy it. &quot;Dragon Attack&quot; carries on &quot;of &quot;Another One Bites The Dust,&quot; but gives it a harder rock edge. &quot;Play The Game&quot; is a nice opener with one of my favorite moments Everybody, play the game - [MicTheSnare] It also has... a synth? Yep, The Game marks the first in Queen's sound. By the halfway point though, The Game starts to lose its identity. Nothing is egregious, but Except for this song, &quot;Don't Try Suicide.&quot; Ugh, God, okay. This is Queen's anti-suicide song, and it comes off like a joke. The gist of it is, don't kill yourself because no and you're not gonna have fun doing it. It's their version of that one part in &quot;Bo Burnham's: Inside.&quot; - Okay, can you not, please. Just don't, all right. - [MicTheSnare] That The Game is a good album. Albeit one that feels front-loaded in a way that past Queen records didn't. (upbeat electronic music) While some were turned off The Game was a success all-around. But unbeknownst to the public, their next album would be almost like a- Flash Ah, ah - [MicTheSnare] To the it was announced that Queen were scoring the upcoming &quot;Flash Gordon&quot; movie. Which is funny because didn't even know who Queen The band took the opportunity and Freddie even designed The soundtrack was and released alongside &quot;Flash's Theme&quot; provides the main motif that appears throughout the soundtrack, and it's definitely Queen fun classic way. I also enjoyed &quot;Battle Theme&quot; The rest is... okay. It's surprising to see how into making synth soundscapes, and it's kinda neat how from the movie. But to me it occupies a like, with the dialogue, is this album supposed Or am I missing something Overall, Flash Gordon but not worth checking out (upbeat electronic music) Flash Gordon the soundtrack even as &quot;Flash Gordon&quot; the movie commercially underperformed. In a weird coincidence, it also came out the day John Lennon died. Still, in the years since, the movie has become a cult classic. - I thank you for saving every one of us. - Well, you're welcome. - Uh, he acknowledged it. - [MicTheSnare] 1981 but it was a year of firsts. They put out their first and April saw the release of Fun in Space, Roger's first solo album. A huge worldwide tour for The by which point they had recorded Said album would be a full heavily inspired by the success of &quot;Another One Bites The Dust.&quot; Hm. In May 1982, Hot Space was released. Imagine this, a world where Hot Space is not considered the worst Queen album. Now here's the thing; I went into this record but thinking I would still like it. Disco's been getting its and if any Queen album is best situated to take advantage of that, it's Hot Space. And you know what? It's not bad. Not great by any means, not some misunderstood classic, but not bad. I feel weird saying that the more synths Queen adds to their music, the more dated they sound. This album is often all but it works... sometimes. Opener &quot;Staying Power&quot; Dancer mixes in some classic That said, if someone were after hearing its lead I would not blame them in the slightest. It is a deeply unsexy song. What also confuses me about Hot Space is how fully it commits to dance music, until it just doesn't. After &quot;Action This Day,&quot; the band goes back to &quot;Put Out The Fire&quot; and &quot;Life is Real&quot; are Brian and Freddie's respective &quot;Las Palabras Del Amor&quot; to Queen's backpocket But right at the eleventh hour, Hot Space comes thru with a proper hit and the song you likely know their collaboration with David Bowie. Pressure Pushin' down on me - It originally came out in October 1981, but is on here as a &quot;Under Pressure&quot; is stellar. Freddie and David are perfect together, as they play two opposing between hope and hopelessness. And all of it is carried Plus, it's the better Queen karaoke song, let's be honest here. Also isn't it funny that this song is like a handoff and Bowie's dance era? Does that make Queen responsible for the snare on &quot;Time Will Crawl?&quot; Aside from the potential war crimes, Hot Space is okay. (upbeat electronic music) Hot Space was enjoyed by some. &quot;Under Pressure&quot; became their the album sold well enough, and it did in part inspire Michael Jackson to make &quot;Thriller.&quot; But it was definitely the faction of Queen's fans &quot;Disco Sucks&quot; signs did becoming a disco band. Brian and Roger were also both not fans of the new direction, leading to some strong Another lengthy worldwide tour commenced right before Hot Space released and ended in November 1982. 1983 was another off year for the band. Brian May released the Star Fleet Project, a mini-album by a Eddie Van Halen and other In August, Queen got splitting their recording time between Germany and Los Angeles. The goal this time was a bringing back the core of and while adding synths As Roger said when they &quot;Let's give them the works!&quot; And they did just that. The Works released in February 1984. The album opens with in &quot;Radio Ga Ga.&quot; For the longest time, I thought it was bashing But it's actually a defense of radio in the face of television and MTV. It's the band's best non-collab single since &quot;Another One Bites The Dust,&quot; even if the chorus still make me chuckle like an 6-year-old boy. Heh. Goo goo. While The Works definitely starts with its best foot forward, the rest of the album &quot;I Want To Break Free&quot; was and its most recognizable I enjoy it, though I always to a grand climax that never comes. Then again, considering the title, maybe that's intentional. Also shoutout to the music video, which was banned in the US for the sin of depicting women's clothing. &quot;Hammer to Fall&quot; became a core staple of the band's live shows, and along with &quot;Tear It Up,&quot; they show Brian at the height &quot;Machines (Back to from Queen's fan and people who have ears, but that's never stopped me. I like it okay, I like the way it weaves Don't look at me like that. &quot;Keep Passing The Windows&quot; Feeling just keeps burning deep inside - [MicTheSnare] I mean that pretty highly. As a whole, The Works is a It advances Queen's sound without sacrificing (upbeat electronic music) Yet another tour kicked off for Queen running from August 1984 to May 1985. This time without any dates Without a doubt, the most famous was their show at the Rock in An utterly incredible performance And it wouldn't even be their However, the tour was due to their scheduled shows in South Africa during apartheid. During this tour, we also saw the release of Roger's second solo The tour ended and Queen And then they heard Bob as an act for Live Aid, That's right, with Queen the mastermind of the just said they were playing It was one of many to get Live Aid going. Maybe Chumbawamba was right. In July 1985, Queen performed at Live Aid, a concert organized to help Ethiopia during a terrible famine. This is probably not news to you, but this performance is considered not only the best Queen performance, not only the best Live Aid performance, but one of the best live What was it that made this A number of things. A tight setlist, them performing right being broadcast around the world, rumors that they were just All those things combined my favorite part being but the call-and-response led by Freddie. - [Audience] Ayo! - Ayo! - Ayo! - All right! - [MicTheSnare] Chills every time. Live Aid brought Queen back to and the band were gunning They went back to Musicland and in June 1986, they released A Kind of Magic. &quot;One Vision&quot; was the first song and it shows in its energetic spirit. It may have one of the of any 80s Queen song. (upbeat rock music) Kinda sounds like &quot;I Believe (upbeat rock music) The rest is... Hm. I hinted at it with Hot Space, but A Kind of Magic swings and the album sounds dated in a way no other Queen &quot;One Year of Love&quot; for but the cheesy keys and sax Even in its cheesiness though, some songs shine through. Is &quot;Who Wants to Live Forever&quot; One million percent yes. But Freddie and the band, sell the hell out of it. &quot;Gimme The Prize&quot; Kurgan's Theme is chock full of gated snares, but it's also the most since Queen II. - [Clancy] I have something to say. It's better to burn out- - It also has Clancy Brown? Okay, forgive me for not but while they were working on Magic, they also did a few songs for Six of those songs are on here, it's why every so often you'll from Mr. Krabs. And since &quot;Highlander&quot; never got its own released soundtrack, A Kind of Magic is the And maybe that's why it That doesn't make it bad by any means, it just makes it low on to listen to first. (upbeat electronic music) The only three constants and Queen touring after their albums. The band embarked on a European tour from June to August 1986. Following that tour, each member got up to Brain did some session Roger formed his own John worked on the score for the movie &quot;Biggles: Adventures in Time.&quot; C'mon how you gonna love Queen and not know about &quot;Biggles Freddie's downtime however was... I should just come out and say it. In April 1987, Freddie The disease that was tearing as governments did due to its association For various reasons, this was an ugly time in modern history, and Freddie was unfortunately Even amid all that turmoil though, he still managed to release a record with Spanish opera called &quot;Barcelona&quot; in October 1988. A beautifully fascinating collaboration, I highly recommend it. December saw the release of Live Magic. And in May 1989, Queen Lemme me get this off my chest right now, I don't like that album cover. Raises way too many questions. How do the eyes work? Who controls them? I'm mixed on this one. On one hand, Queen were still and songwriting 13 albums in. &quot;I Want It All&quot; features performance by Freddie, as he sings that classic refrain of, &quot;I want it all, and I want it now.&quot; &quot;Khashoggi's Ship&quot; is Adnan Khashoggi and his massive yacht. &quot;Breakthru&quot; revisits and updates from Opera and Races. &quot;Scandal&quot; was written by Brian, and it takes aim at the press during a time when he was and the band was battling speculation over Freddie's fewer public appearances. But on the other hand, once again, The Miracle can sound so dated and cheesy. Basically every song, has at least one musical element that takes me out of the experience. I get frustrated with my own self because I want the band but one too many Oberheims I should also mention the a 2 minute instrumental If you do this song at karaoke, you have my respect, but I refuse to look you I may find it a bit so for those who have more tolerance, I think there's a lot to (upbeat electronic music) Looks like we've only got for the first time in years, Queen did not tour for a new album. Freddie said that the band wanted to avoid the usual humdrum cycle, thought I imagine his diagnosis In fact, many in the public of Freddie's physical appearance, and the media outlets were The other members of and in March 1989, the to work on a new album and However, according to reports, Freddie informed the rest of in the summer of 1989. It wasn't like he could keep By the end of recording, Freddie had trouble just walking. But the rest of the band were committed to doing the best they could And in his own words, Freddie was committed to quote, &quot;keep working until I (beeps) drop.&quot; In February 1991, Queen released Innuendo. Once again we have Queen returning to their hard rock stylings after a synth-heavy detour. And once again, said return is good. Better than good actually, The opening title track is a stunning six and a half minute extravaganza, complete with bolero, Fun fact: Steve Howe of marking the only time another guitarist appeared on a Queen album. &quot;Headlong&quot; and &quot;Ride The Wild Wind&quot; are two of the best pure rock songs Queen have made this entire decade. And Freddie may have been but you would not know like &quot;Don't Try So Hard&quot; and &quot;The Hitman.&quot; Even the synths this time The stock MIDI vocal sounds give the song a haunting undertone, and the synth pads on &quot;These are balanced by Freddie's touching vocals and Brian's subtle guitar. Innuendo is in my opinion, the It shows Queen at their most inventive, even in the face of public dissection and, in Freddie's case, death. (upbeat electronic music) Innuendo received a mixed by critics and fans. And I can kinda understand why. The kind of rock music was going out of style, and in just a few months, rock music wouldn't sound like it at all. Side note: it's a bit surreal to me that Queen and Nirvana co-existed for a brief moment in time. They just feel like complete But Queen hadn't ended... Right? - Freddie Mercury, the flamboyant frontman of the veteran British band Queen died Sunday in his West London mansion. - [MicTheSnare] On Nov. 23, 1991, Freddie released a statement and called for help in The next day, he passed A tsunami of love and support followed, as everyone mourned one to ever live. But in this darkest of hours, there was one bright spot, one person who reminded us Mike Myers. In early 1992, &quot;Wayne's World&quot; became a box office smash in the US, and it featured a scene where rocked out to &quot;Bohemian Rhapsody.&quot; This led the song to experience a second lease on life in the US. And what's especially great about it, is that Freddie signed off on it. He loved the idea, and it got his approval before he passed. It's just unfortunate he didn't get to see the public's reaction. Things were radio Gaga silent after Freddie's passing. There was a huge benefit in April 1992. Brian released his first That was kind of it... until 1995. As with may bands of their caliber, Queen had a ton of unreleased Especially towards the end of his life, Freddie was dedicated to for the band to use. So the remaining three members decided to take that material and rework it into one last record. Queen's final album with Made in Heaven, released in November 1995. Now of course, Made in as well as past Queen albums. Given its circumstances, What matters most is that Freddie is given and the album succeeds with that. Granted, not everything on here was recorded in Freddie's final days, much of the material comes But still, songs like the title track, and &quot;I serve as a powerful reminder of Freddie's extraordinary showmanship. The most heartbreaking song Yeah - [MicTheSnare] That's For real though, it's &quot;Mother Love.&quot; Not only are Freddie's but this would end up being the final thing he ever recorded. He didn't even get to finish the song. The final verse had to be done by Brian. All that said though, &quot;Untitled,&quot; the 20 minute instrumental bonus track, I'm not a fan. It's an interesting way but why would you make an album in tribute to your lead vocalist and then bring it home with a In its defense, it wasn't meant to be but these days on streaming services, it's listed as such, so I imagine a new Made in Heaven reminds me The Endless River. Both albums are intended are made from previously recorded pieces, and are dedicated to a Brian May later said this and while I strongly disagree, I can totally see where he's coming from. I'm not in love with the end product, but albums like this are more important than just being a product. It's a band writing as good under heartbreaking circumstances, and I'd say it succeeds. (audience applauding) (upbeat electronic music) Freddie's passing wasn't the though thankfully this next loss didn't involve anybody dying. In late 1997, John and music entirely. From here on out, Queen would just be Brian May and Roger Taylor. They continued playing Often times, they would Pavarotti, Elton John, Robbie Williams. Each time they did, they as Queen plus the vocalist. But something interesting Queen announced their And their vocalist would be Paul Rodgers. He had been the lead singer for bands like Bad Company and Free, and he was held in high regard And so Queen plus Paul Rodgers set out on a quick European tour. Basically like a one-night stand, but what's the worst outcome An unexpected child. We have here the only time as of now when Queen made a full album with one of their guest vocalists. The Cosmos Rocks in September 2008. Look, I don't think it needs to be said that this doesn't come anywhere close to matching the band's The Cosmos Rocks is a Queen modified their of hard rock and blues, and Paul Rodgers fits This doesn't tarnish anyone's reputation, but I think it's only worth checking out once you've gotten through After their one record, Queen parted ways with Paul in 2009. That same year, they and did two songs with and Adam Lambert. They took a liking to Adam specifically. Heck, he sounded great for his audition. And so, in June 2012, Queen played their first show Since then, Queen have with Adam Lambert as their vocalist. They've teased new proper and while I'm not betting that they'll ever get into the studio, I'd welcome it. Adam's got a phenomenal voice, and it's the least after a decade of him (upbeat electronic music) (Beaker imitates singing) Galileo Galileo Galileo, Figaro - [MicTheSnare] The most has been Queen Forever, a compilation album from the '80s. My favorite of the trio of Freddie's solo track &quot;Love Kills.&quot; The last thing I'd like to touch on is the 2018 Queen biopic, I don't really like this movie. Sure there's the editing, and the controversy around its director. Plus the changes to Queen's story that range from the understandable to the disappointing to the irritating... Is that an SM7 miking a guitar cab? Is that actually how they recorded guitar? I mean fine if it is, I just personally wouldn't Also the capsule's not That said, Rami Malik was It's also cool that they and a nod to &quot;Wayne's World.&quot; - Well, that's the kind of song teenagers can crank up and bang their heads to. - It also gave many of Queen's songs a new life in the public, which is never a bad thing in my eye. And I'm sure those songs in the future, because in my opinion, that's the secret power of Queen. Other bands may have or more consistent legacies, but Queen has this singular Every few years, a Queen song is featured in some big pop culture event, and it shoots up the charts because we all remember how The secret power of Queen or their performances, If you wanna get into Queen, I would recommend checking A Night at the Opera, News of The World, Jazz, and Innuendo. And if you have a favorite related thing, I'd love to know