- We have been evolving since life began on earth. For most of that time, our ancestors are unrecognizable to us. Single cells, fish that they're all beautiful in their own way. They're all a completely necessary step in the evolution of us, Eventually though, after we start to see ourselves in the fossils. About six million years ago, split from our last common Three to four million years ago, we find the fossils of upright across Eastern and Southern Africa. And by one million years ago, we can certainly see the In many ways, it was but I do believe we in these distant ancestors of ours. We can empathize with them, understand their decisions, So looking at nine sites let's see what humanity was up to roughly one million years ago, give or take a few hundred thousand years. (upbeat music) This video is sponsored by KiwiCo. Why do humans do any of the things we're It's curiosity. Curiosity drives us. Curiosity just comes naturally to us. And I really want to cultivate and encourage that sense which is why I absolutely love KiwiCo. My kids love it too. It's the best. It's really the best. KiwiCo make these absolutely that will really engage your kid. You can literally see the - [my little kid] Wow. - It's so fun to see them get creative, use their imagination, play together, which is hard as any parent will tell you. There's so many gizmos and gadgets and electronic things that steal adults' attention, let's be honest, but I really wanna keep as much as possible. I want them to use their imagination. Each box comes with everything you need. They're super well made, You can go to kiwico.com to get one of their fantastic crates or you can sign up for a My kids are young, so and I even get an optional So we play in the day, get a and then a new book to read at night. It's great and I pay for They didn't send me that I think I wouldn't be allowed because of advertising disclosure. Yeah, I just love it. If your kids aren't as young as mine, they've got stuff for all ages to keep them entertained, If you go to kiwico.com/stefan, you'll get 50% off your first month if you want to do those monthly crates and you won't regret it. You won't regret it. Your kids will love it. Let's get back to this video and see what people were Oldupai Gorge in Tanzania really is one of the most in the entire world. So many fossils and tools roughly 1.3 million years ago. It was home to this also known as Paranthropus boisei. Australopithecines of various since about four million years ago. They were extremely successful. They probably produced They may have even left Africa judging from stone tools found in Jordan, they were fantastic. An incredibly important By one million years ago though, it seems that the time was drawing to a close. These teeth, this leg, perhaps belong to the last The extinction of a species can be a long, drawn out, complex process. And, of course, animals evolve. Some populations of australopithecine slowly evolved into later Some of them was certainly but not this one. We don't have any evidence that Paranthropus was our direct ancestor. Para means near or beside and anthropus means man. They were beside man. As you can see, Paranthropus had huge jaws and the males had massive sagittal crests along the top of their skull to hold these chewing muscles. Kind of similar to a gorilla except we're confident They were definitely hominins. There is evidence to suggest that their diet included a lot of grasses and similar plants. Whether the grass themselves we can't say. But apparently, they love nothing more However, they may have also with meat. There is some interesting evidence that they may have been amongst the earliest stone tool makers. Early older one style stone tools have been found alongside their big, robust teeth at Nyayanga in Kenya and Swartkrans in South Africa. It's tricky to say how but it does seem their love of grasses contributed to their demise. Around one million years grass lands were contracting. Forests were growing, which no doubt led to amongst animals that eat grass. This could have been a major The end of Paranthropus though might have been hastened by the evolution of large-brained hominins One of the most famous who roamed Africa roughly The interaction between is basically unknown. Did they compete over the same resources? Did they basically ignore each other? It's really impossible to say At Drimolen Cave in South Africa, there's good evidence for and Homo erectus, occupying very roughly the same time. As I said, some populations of course, had slowly but Paranthropus, it seems, did not. And by one million years ago, the sun was setting on the Paranthropus, and they disappeared from One advantage bigger-brained hominins might have had over Paranthropus was their ability to hunt big game. We're still at Oldupai Gorge, but this time looking at the which dates to between 1.1 This is an incredibly rich site with 24,962 bones recovered by anthropologists, a huge data set, which gives to assess life so long ago. These were big animals too, like hippos. Big animals. Some animal bones have cut marks on them. Some animal bones were and some were butchered and nibbled. But who got to the animals mainly scavengers or hunters. In cases where bones had the cut marks are on the but the teeth marks of carnivores are restricted to the ends of the bones. So it seems from this site other animals got the worst bit. Other animals were scavenging. Ancient humans were in the accumulation of All of this suggests that probably a Homo erectus-like population that were hunting these animals, hunting large animals like hippos. That really says so to cooperate and hunt as a team. Hunting a hippo is no Access to all this meat, likely played a big role and as our brains expanded, so did our ability to One million years ago, Hominins were producing but the defining tool of the period are called Acheulean hand axes. These tools are worked on both sides and probably had a variety of purposes. One of the best places to see is Konso in modern Ethiopia. Here, the exceptional allows us to see the At 1.75 million years ago, we can see hominins making simple tools, but they're still worked on both sides. They are clearly aiming to By 1.6 million years ago, the shape starts to get more refined. By 1.25 million years ago, the classic Acheulean shape is emerging, and by 850,000 years ago, they're even smaller and more refined. It's really incredible to see the slow, but steady evolution of human Creating these tools required 60 even more flakes. This really shows that humans of visualizing their goal, planning for the future It makes you wonder what could they imagine into the future? Could they project into the future? How far did they plan ahead and hunting food or preparing and moving through the landscape? How far ahead did they Another really interesting when discussing Acheulean hand axes is the fact that you probably and create such slim and on your first attempt. So how was the ability to create hand axes passed on to younger members Was there some degree Was there even some element of rudimentary language involved? It's so difficult to speak about the earliest development of because words just don't get preserved in the archeological record. All we have are these subtle a gradual increase in It's certainly possible that there was some in the making of these objects. Hand axes probably had but some excavated at Peninj in Tanzania might give us a good clue Here, hand axes and the soils for phytoliths. Small pieces of plant matter. The phytoliths found in the soil were associated with grasses. No big surprise. The phytoliths found on the are a much better match for So the researchers hypothesize of these tools being used for woodworking. The fact that wood the biggest gap in the when we're talking deep in The oldest wooden artifacts found so far date to about 400,000 years ago, the famous Schoningen Spears. They were found amongst the remains of a herd of butchered horses, the leftovers of an ambush Although this is 600,000 years there's good evidence to believe humans one million years ago They had to use something to hunt hippos. That's not an easy job. When you consider the fact that humans were certainly working they must have been working using it to dig for tubers. As I said, get grubs out of trees. It's just a big bias in that stone tools survive and But ancient humans were for all sorts of purposes. This hand axe from Peninj may be the earliest evidence practicing a spot of carpentry With these technologies, and just general increase in brain size came a much wider global presence. Our ancestors may have left Africa as early as 2 million years ago, but definitely by 1.8 million years ago, judging from the remains by one million years ago, they for hundreds of thousands of years. Such a large geographical spread created a lot of variation And there's a big debate as to whether all of these and Eurasia should be One million years ago, modern was home to this Homo erectus. For Homo erectus to have all the way to China shows just how adaptable at this time. Of course, it did not but still so many rivers mountain valleys traversed, different prey to adapt There's truly no better evidence of the adaptability of early hominins. Although they may be different they were definitely very intelligent, great problem solvers. Whilst over in China, with a very, very distant This is a tooth of Gigantopithecus, We don't have a lot of remains from them. You can probably tell by that this ape was a big chap. Although we've only found the their size alone leads that ape could have perhaps Absolute units, bigger Genetics has revealed them of orangutans. And I can't help but wonder Homo erectus, thought of them. Did they lie awake at night terrified as the forest echoed to the grunts and snapping branches of Gigantopithecus? Did they hunt them perhaps? We have no direct evidence of that, but Homo erectus was certainly dangerous animals. Or was Gigantopithecus like Key being a low profile, kind of shy, likes to hide away from these Until we find more remains, All we can say is that were in the same region at some time and the rest is up to our imagination. One hominin that might of big old Gigantopithecus This small hominin lived way down at the bottom Although the famous Homo dates to around 74,000 years ago, stone tools found on the island suggest hominins have been living here for one million years. Was Homo floresiensis a that gradually became smaller and smaller through a process called island dwarfism, or were they the descendants of an even earlier migration out of Africa by early Homo like Homo habilis? It's still highly debated. We truly do not know where they fit on our evolutionary tree, but it does seem that they about a million years ago. As far back as the 1940s even, stone tools were found on At the minute, we just can't say much about the creators of these tools, but the fact that they're Sulawesi, Flores, these islands were almost to the Southeast Asian mainland. All of them sit on the other which is our name for a series These have been a hard barrier On the one side, you have plants and on the other side, the plants and animals native like marsupials. So the fact that these ancient hominins are found across the region by is great evidence for some kind of They crossed a barrier I'm not saying they built boats or rafts, but were they smart enough Were they smart enough to cling onto logs and make their way to new territory, or were they just swept and lucky enough to grab hold of a log? Again, impossible to say but I can't help but think Did any reach Sahul, the ancient landmass that connected modern Papua and Australia? interesting to think about, but as yet, we have no direct evidence. So that's just speculation (ambient music) One million years ago, it that humans called home. They had made it as far as Although at that time, So no sea crossing required. Here in Happisburgh, yes, I know, I'm sorry. On behalf of England, I'm sorry. Here though, the eroding coast exposed a series of footprints dating to between one million We can tell so much from these footprints based on the sizes of the feet and the length of their strides. Their height is estimated and 173 centimeters, Now, the site is on the coast, but when these humans lived here, it was the muddy banks of a river. They were headed south, perhaps or elk or horses that lived One million years ago, was colder than today. Then Southern Britain's climate would be more like Scandinavia, Pretty chilly. Pretty chilly. Does this mean that humans some form of rudimentary clothing? We know they're not sewing as such because sewing needles don't appear in the archeological record But could they have draped furs and skins of dead animals over themselves to keep the cold north I find it hard to believe During the cold nights, they also probably made more comfortable by piling up bedding, piling up grasses, skins, again. Although we don't have it's hard to imagine living without some form of clothing and bedding. The urge to create some form It predates humans. Gorillas make nests out Chimpanzees like to make So many animals do that. It's hard to imagine that our ancestors would lack that sense for some reason, especially in the cold. I like to imagine them huddled keeping each other warm, bonding. Humans, even very ancient At some point, they probably One technology that may survive in cooler climates was fire. Finding the origins of for archeology. By around 400,000 years ago, can be found at many However, even at this later date, the record is still patchy. There are archeological sites with tons and tons of but no evidence of fire at all, suggesting that some human were not habitually using fire. The development of a new technology can be a long drawn out process though, especially something which requires an understanding of heat and air and fuel. It's basically our first But are there places where the preservation where we can see the subtle traces of the development of this technology? While at Wonderwerk Cave in South Africa, we might just have it. Stratum 10 of the cave dates to around one million years ago. In this layer, quite far from a full 30 meters inside the cave, archeologists found tiny alongside tiny fragments of bone, some of which were seemingly And there are stone tools too. Humans were definitely This is one of the earliest and most promising leads in but there are so many Were humans at this time capable of igniting fire themselves, or are they taking and bringing them inside the cave, trying to keep them going It's basically impossible to say for sure. One thing that's important to say about humanity is that despite the evidence for technological innovation we have no evidence for art or anything even approaching art. It is possible that the hominins the humans that lived at this and symbolism that have left absolutely None whatsoever. That is entirely possible, that leads us to create big works of art, big obvious displays of symbolism had not evolved by one million years ago. The earliest trace of anything is about 500,000 years old and consists of just a few lines scratched on a shell from Java. We don't have obvious until maybe 170,000 years ago where stalagmites were arranged or 100,000 years ago in Southern Africa where we see the first signs of painting. At one million years ago, we seemingly were not doing and that is perhaps one between you and I and a human that lived Life for infants and young at this time was probably very, very risky. And there's no better example than at Atapuerca in Northern Spain. The site of Gran Dolina, dates to at least 800,000 years ago, maybe up to one million years ago. Now, it is one of the most important archeological sites in Europe, but back then it was seemingly All six layers are full of the particularly deer. But the second most butchered Human remains were recovered from all six layers at the site, resulting in a minimum of 11 individuals. Six children younger than and two young adults. From all six layers, the humans One problem when discussing is that there are many situations that could result in the exact Cannibalism could have Just pure hunger could or these people could have and this is a subtle trace of After 800,000 years in the to say for certain what happened. The human remains don't show any signs of different treatment So perhaps they were not But again, we have to keep in mind that these hominins may have which haven't left an In fact, I am 100% certain that haven't left an archeological trace. However, the demographic the young age of all of these hominins does provide an interesting comparison to our distant cousins, chimpanzees. When chimpanzee groups patrol they of course occasionally rival groups. Sometimes these groups with their children. When that happens, the attacking of a relatively defenseless The benefit of this is of a rival group in a whilst potentially increasing and mates for the attacking group. Could this have been the same at Atapuerca all those years ago? Could roaming groups of prehistoric humans have opportunistically seized the moment to get a meal to reduce the It's certainly possible and a reasonable explanation of young hominins are found. However, as with most of the coming to concrete if not impossible. It is just one of many possibilities. Atapuerca though is a fantastic reminder that hominins, prehistoric humans, ancient humans may have been similar to us in many, many ways, but they may also have And despite all the and the evolution of that could overcome many difficulties, they probably lived very, That's kind of a bummer to end on. (ambient music)