English is not Britain's only language. Not even close. There are languages that were on these islands long before English moved in, Each and every one of them has characteristics that would blow That's a heck of a revelation. Cornish counting is base 20. What? So let's get to know these Celtic languages better, and who knows, maybe It's time for another RobWords. In this video, we're diving deep into five spoken in Scotland, Welsh from Wales, No, no, no, wait, wait, wait, wait, It'd just be dumb. It'd leave a massive Irish Plus, Irish is spoken by some people in Northern Ireland, which, at time To cover my ask further, video, will be the language of Scots, Now, I don't speak any of the languages In fact, all of them are considered except for Welsh, but even But luckily, I have found speakers of Marian, Breesha, Kensa, and Arthur Now, the first thing to point out is can be split into two, language tree, which diverged First, you've got the Goidelic languages, Gaelic and Manx, both formed And this trio are the Gaelic languages, and they all call themselves See? Although the whole naming thing In Ireland, you call it Irish, right? Yeah, I think in Ireland, when it's referred to as Gaelic because But we either call it Irish, which is the Irish Irish So you would be very hard-pressed to find an Irish person who would I've seen Gaelic referred to as Gaelic, Which of those are legitimate They're all legitimate, It's the name of the language So, the majority of people I know in Scotland call it Gaelic, but there are Is it straightforward with manx? Am I using the right When you are using the right word. So people will just call it manx, But some people will call it Manx Gaelic and show its link with the And then in Manx, we call it &quot;gilg&quot;, Depending in the part of the island, That's the Goidelic branch. But then you have the Brythonic languages. These are Welsh, Cornish, and Breton, These languages are Celtic, They share an ancestral language that was forced into pockets along the west drove the Celtic Britons Of the three, Cornish and Breton They think that when we split in the the Welsh go to Wales, but also the Bretons, and then they So they separated from the Cornish later So how different are these For example, can a Welsh speaker Cornish, yeah, because it's the same branch as Welsh, but Manx, I mean, I could figure it out written. I could see patterns, Can you understand When you sent me those videos of the people speaking Manx and then With the Manx video, &quot;Hello little people, Learn Manx!&quot; I really noticed that the words were They were obviously focused on simple Even the phrase they were using for I would like, I can't remember &quot;By vie lhiam&quot; In Irish it's ba mhaith liom. Scottish Gaelic video, she was obviously I think she said she grew up speaking the language, so she spoke quickly And that wasn't as easy to follow It the way I would to a native Irish speaker, But I was still able to follow a lot And I think a really native, strong Irish speaker, would probably be able There you go. Now, one of the best ways we can support And I found Gaelic teacher Stephen and Welsh teacher Marian Italki is a website and app where you have with native speaking teachers, There are over 30,000 teachers to choose from, so you know you're going Pick the language you want to learn, available to you, and choose one It took me absolutely no time to find You really can do it in just a few clicks. And because the lessons are one-to-one, you can get a tailored Welsh actually has more So we have seven vowels. Wait, where are you getting seven from? So I'll tell you them in Welsh. [sounding out:] A, E, I, O, U, W, Y. So the W and the Y are vowels in Welsh. The best part of Italki is there are You just pay as you go. And lessons start at only $5. Millions of people are already using Italki to start their So why don't you? Italki has given me a special promo code, Rob Words 5, where the first with their first Italki credit So click the link in this video's Now, all of these are distinct languages. I therefore want to be careful not but there are systems and characteristics For example, in any of them, answering a yes and no question We don't have a yes or no. There's not one word for yes or no. You reply by repeating the verb That's the same in manx. If you're asked a question, You're basically using that In English, this would be like me asking you, are you going And you saying, I am, Please do it. breton is the only one with words that we Now, once you've got your head around that concept, there's another Cornish counting is base 20. What? We go to 20 because fingers and toes, Then we start again. You know when you learn French and you're like, What do you mean Cornish were doing And the Welsh, for them, 40 is 2 20, There are remnants in Irish, Gaelic, it's coigead. That's a vigecimal system. But in the schools now, in the Gaelic medium schools, Now, another characteristic of Celtic off because it doesn't happen in English, can change depending Okay, this is a little tough to explain, Just bear with me. So for example, the Welsh word for Wales Any time you drive into Wales and you see have a look at the Welsh sign, So Gymru with a G, But it's gone through a soft mutation because the I, Croeso i, So this is something that all I bet. And in the Goidelic languages, there are also triggers One of them is something Now, cases can be a bit complicated, but the result of this one is depending on whether you're Check this out. That's where some Scottish names in English have come from, They've come from the vocative form Wait, Seamus and Hamish are the same Yes. You've blown my mind. Not to be outdone, Manx Gaelic also My name's Breesha, and if you were talking Yeah, so the Isle of Man gets called both and that's because of that initial sound Actually, let's get on to place names because it's in them that these languages For example, all those words you associate Ben, they're all from Scottish Gaelic, The most vivid, real, living example of the language for anyone So right down to the smallest little place to capital city I mean, Dublin originally comes People will, when they think of the Welsh language, they'll think I can feel where you're going with this. No, I'm not going for Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychw no, no. How was that? That was pretty good. Thank you very much. No, I was going to ask I was going to ask the terms that What do these all mean? Welsh place names are very descriptive. So any place that starts with Aber, because Aber means an estuary, Then Llan is a very common name. Llan was the land that a church stands on. So anywhere with Llan probably My favourite place name is Penzance, It means holy headland, Now, the patron saint of Penzance is St John the Baptist, Brownwilly is the highest point in Cornwall and Bodmin Moor, but it's So it is coming from the Cornish name. So place names are a way through using these Celtic languages, And another is through the everyday There's some simple examples like banshe, smithereens, Shebeen? You know that? I know it's very commonly used, actually, but it comes from the Irish, I think it's actually an illicit pub. It's an old Irish word. So yeah, Banshee, shebeen, smithereen. And there are probably Galore. Galore comes from Irish. Galore, a lot of. For my money, probably the most delightful gift to English from the Celtic languages which is thought to probably come But it's often pointed out that there are for saying they've lived Indeed, the received wisdom among of the Britons had very little impact There are compelling For example, so-called meaningless do That's when we use the word do, do you like cheese, or I do not The idea that that came from Celtic is The argument that the ancient Britons had down to the idea were so uncompromising that they made little allowance But whether that's true or not, there's no doubt that every one of these of the arrival of English because Most extreme examples among them are Cornish and Manx, which have both, at one They're now both considered revitalised. In fact, Kensa says she doesn't reckon Basically, there's this myth that of Cornish, and she dies in 1777, Then basically the Cornish revival, is dated from 1904, and I looked So not only were books being written, dictionaries are being It's It's been mentioned. We know that there are families where you can trace the intergenerational Intergenerational transmission being such Is it used as a community language now? And is it used outside of the context of Not really. Could you see it ever being, though? It would be nice to get to that point. How we get there is the next big thing. Manx now is, and the number of speakers, It is. It's on the up. It's got this wonderful That's why how we like to talk about Manx. People were over enthusiastic in dismissing it a long time ago, And it gives a glimmer of hope to other And we get people from other language communities coming here to find out How is it in a position where it is taught in the schools, where it's used in everyday conversation And It is this real combination of grassroots activity We're a small language and a small so you have to really work together and That's Manx and Cornish, but how are the other more widely Gaelic, where is it spoken now? Well, I'm sitting here in Angus, It's been the Western Isles I remember it's been the main But there are communities of Gaelic speakers in the cities, When people are asked in Ireland, There's often quite a very high level of people who will say, Yes, often around 50 % or even And the reason for that is probably because it's a compulsory So everyone who's been through the Irish education system has had at least So that's probably why a lot of people will feel they have When it comes to everyday use or real fluency or command, It's probably 20 % or less. And the areas where it is most widely spoken would be in what So they're predominantly in the west Galway in the west, And then in the capital, Dublin, not a Gaeltacht region, but there are all-Irish And there will be a lot of people in the And then there are a couple of other but they would be the regions where you But the reality is that it's been and over the last century, So even though it's still compulsory The original goal was to make it I think that those days are long gone, and But interestingly, in the last few years, 15 years, it has become And there's a lot of young people We had a thing recently where Paul Mescal, spoke Irish in an interview, He was asked at some red carpet He did quite well. He carried off the interview. It was charming. I think a lot of people I think there's people who now embrace Okay, I don't have to be a wonderful speaker, but it's something that our of people are proud of and we How raw and sore is the issue of It depends who you ask, I guess. But I think it's There's always something in the news. Someone has said something. Some famous person has made some gibe or it's a bit of a joke on some It's tiring. But I would say the overall feeling I think more people are It's become more of a cool thing I think things like Gareth Bale, football, Wrexham football, Well, I promised we'd try to pick up a word or two of each of these languages, speaking pals to try and help us to be Okay, so to say please, you say &quot;my saillt&quot;. My saillt. And that's just please to one person. We have singular and plural, And thank you. You say, &quot;Gura mie ayd&quot;. Gura mie ayd. Gura mie ayd. The most common expression is &quot;Ciamar a tha thu?&quot;. &quot;Kimmera how&quot; You said it well. Good job. &quot;What like is it that are you?&quot; How are you? &quot;Ciamar a tha thu?&quot; Good morning in Welsh is &quot;Bore da&quot;. Bore da. Bore, is good? Is that good or is that... Bore means morning. Okay. Other way around. Okay. It's &quot;morning good&quot;. Maybe you could just Okay, so &quot;Dha weles&quot;. Dha weles. Dha weles. So that's another of those D-H sounding So how do I do this without coming across I think you're doing a pretty good job. I think the key to that is When someone says, &quot;Don't say Thank you so much to my mate, And also to Breesha, and to Steven, and Kensa, and Marian, who has You should check that out. What a great bunch of people. And what beauty lies in their languages. Use them or lose them. If you've enjoyed this video, And I've also just started a podcast with It's called Words Unravelled, and you can either watch it here or listen I'll also leave a link below. And I'll catch you in the next thing. Goodbye.