(upbeat music) to the, &quot;Taste Test&quot;, the show where the ATK Reviews team goes above and beyond tasting ingredients so that you can shop smart. Today I have Joe Gitter, senior - Hi Kate. Good to see you. - Hey, Joe. Glad to have you here. So today we're tasting cranberry sauce. You're gonna taste all nine samples. We'll go through one at a time. You'll tell me what you think, what you like, what you don't like. We'll learn a ton. And then at the end you came to feel about cranberry sauce against our official results. - Let's do it. (upbeat music ends) I like these little spoons, but not Mother of Pearl, it's wood with cranberry. It's very dainty. Well I already don't like the 'cause it looks rather like weepy at the edges. - And I feel like you want so it coats the mouth, it coats the foods. I like it. You're coming in strong with some opinions. Oh dear. - So I feel like it's gotta - Mm hmm. - and really I just get flabby sweetness and almost no acidity at all. - Okay. - Watery. it tastes watery. I don't taste like fresh berry fruits and I don't get a really nice sweet sour balance, so. - I'm not feeling good about this one. - Okay. I've gotta say, - You didn't hate it? - Okay. I thought it got it little bit better. - Okay. Let's have a look. when it's sitting there at Thanksgiving, you want - Right, that's like the They come in- - The turkey's not on the table yet. - Exactly. and it's weeping red cranberry water. - Oh, so sad. Yeah. Yeah this would be sad. And you can't, I guess you could run in, give it a little stir. - And yeah, you're right, it - Yeah. But you don't when you've got your Do you want to know what it is? (drum rolling) - Okay. (drum roll ends) Now I recognize the brand. - You do, yes. on my table this Thanksgiving. - All right. Yes. Ocean Spray, huge, huge This is their whole berry sauce. And this actually came in third place. - [Joe] Okay. And a couple people said, Very familiar to them, third place. And it definitely doesn't - [Kate] No, it doesn't. But that's okay. (upbeat music) (upbeat music ends) - Very dark, very cooked down. - Right, like dry, jammy. - I see a lot of seeds in there. - Yep. - Mm-hm. A lot of nuts. - Like this feels hard to even identify - [Kate] Uh huh. - as a cranberry sauce. Right? it's kind of hard to identify the nut too. - Yeah. in there, but is it a - Right, exactly. And then- - [Joe] It's very sticky. It's sweet. - Very sticky. enjoy this with a whole But I feel like with turkeys, - I agree. - Yes, exactly. And you know, one of the great is that pop of color. - Yeah. you know, your plate's kind of beige, you know, you got your turkey- - Your mashed potatoes, gravy. And the cranberry sauce really kind of brings some life to it. It's just another brown. - Another brown thing on the plate. - A study in brown. (Joe and Kate laughing) (drum rolling) Country Cranberry Relish. This was one of our Because of all those extra flavors, people compared it to a holiday candle. - Yes, I could see that, - I could see that. Like some of that Yankee candle. And even cough syrup. - I know. doesn't sound very appetizing. Come to Thanksgiving, here's your turkey and your - I would keep that for the cheese. - Yes. Keep for the cheese, Just not at Thanksgiving. (upbeat music) (upbeat music ends) - There's no hiding that you sort of shimmied onto your plate. - It's very firm. Very, very firm. - So it's not mouth coating at all. A turkey sandwich with this smeared on it- - Yeah. - No, that would be great. - This to me seems like a decent all-purpose, cranberry sauce that just doesn't look beautiful. - Right. This is something that people kind of duke - Yeah. There are the fans of which is pureed, then and then put in cans and Which is why it forms those ridges. The pectin in the and it becomes very jellied. (Joe laughs) - And then the other big which is sometimes called relish. One of the things we is that the name on the can or the jar doesn't necessarily indicate That sometimes those labeled jellied were actually pretty loose. And sometimes those looked very jellied. - No industry standards then. And you would expect you know? - To call it one thing and And we just found that wasn't the case. - Like, if you want this, I think you wanna know that this is what you're getting. - You don't wanna be surprised by this. - Yes. Yeah. - [Kate] There's no passing (drum rolling) Whole Berry Cranberry Sauce. - Whole berry? So, confusing. You would never to be quite this rigid and have those little grooves on the top. But there you are. - And on top of everything, This is really not representative. - I know. in the tin. So we were very surprised by that. Some people thought it was nice and tangy, they liked the cranberry flavor. Others found it just a little forgettable. - But I mean, sort of decent-ish. - Decent-ish all purpose. - You can definitely and put some turkey on top- - For your leftovers. I think you're right, I think it has a place for your leftovers, but maybe not your star (upbeat music) (upbeat music ends) they look a little softer like it looks almost like a candy. - [Kate] Mm hmm. - You know what it reminds me of? A fruit leather. It's got that texture as well. - It does. It's definitely got, like - Yes. - [Kate] There's a - It feels like a healthy childhood snack, right? It's like you can't have your real sweet, so here have a little sugared cranberry. - Have your little apple cranberry snack. - [Kate] This is Woodstock - At least they call it what it is. - Yes. It's got that going for it. You know what's inside when you open it. And this one again, you and our tasters were They thought it was fine, Some other people said kind - [Joe] Yeah. - I think that's right. It gets sweet and sour, (upbeat music) (upbeat music ends) than anything we've had so far. - Completely. I get so much like really clean cranberry flavor, only it's more intense than cranberry juice. it's that cranberry bitterness, you know, I can like feel - It's mouthwatering acidity. - Like really high The texture's a bit off, - Yeah. - Yeah. It is. - Yes. - It does. And the cranberries! (Joe and Kate laughing) - This is New England Cranberry Colonial Cranberry Sauce. (Joe laughs) - Very cranberry. In the name twice. And we could taste it. - Yes, we absolutely could. - [Kate] So this our tasters really liked, so I'm thrilled that you - Yeah. one of our winners. - [Joe] Oh, okay. - I haven't failed yet. And I haven't told you that yet, so we named two winners in this story. - You know, sometimes there's one that just and that is our one and only favorite. - The singular winner. This story, however, you know, because they we actually ended up naming and also a jellied favorite. - And this was the whole berried favorite. - You got it. (upbeat music ends) - Spice immediately. aside from just cranberries and sugar. - I taste clove. - Mm hmm. - It like smashes me around the face with a little bit of orange I get the bitterness, fruitiness. - It feels like they just, they've masked the And that's kind of not what this is. This is not a spice sauce, it's a cranberry sauce. No, nobody wants a spice sauce. That's not what we're after. - That's not what we want. - [Kate] This is not, - No. And it doesn't sound like - No, I'm a little bit - Oh no. - Actually I'm a little bit annoyed because it's like, it's not what I wanted. - Yeah. add a whole load of like cloves to my turkey. No, exactly. - When you're cooking you're tired, you feel a by the time you sit down. This is not what you wanna be serving. - Mm-mm. - Oh. - Is that ungrateful? - You are not thankful for that sauce. (drum rolling) (drum rolling ends) - I like that company though. And this is actually a really that the brand, the company can kind of influence us So something we take a lot is to remove all of the - Yep. is labeled with a number. So that way nobody knows and the fact that maybe they isn't influencing them. And our tasters really that we've been talking about. They thought that it - Yeah. wrote down, &quot;It's overwhelming&quot;. This was recommended with reservations and it was the last of those sauces. So it was kind of in the This is not really something that we think you should seek out, at least for Thanksgiving day. - But in a pinch, it can do (Kate laughs) If you like warm spice. (upbeat music) (upbeat music ends) - What are you tasting? Tell me. - Apple sauce, cooked apple sauce. - That's what it is, like with a little bit of some - Yeah I'm getting some more spices. - Yeah, definitely spices. - Something else I'm noticing, these sauces have been - Yeah. I don't even know what color that is. - [Kate] But there's - [Joe] It's kind of drab, it really is. in some of the others. - Is this a node to your - Not mine. - Not mine either. (Joe and Kate laughing) (drum rolling) Jellied Cranberry. - Hm. - What do I see? Cranberries and apples. - Cranberries and apples, you nailed it. - Citrus and spices. You nailed it. They did not nail it. Yes. - The first ingredient is Second is cranberry then cane sugar. you really noticed the apple though. - [Kate] That was the - First thing I tasted. Yeah. the more I thought about it after you said that, it almost has an apple butter- - Right. Yeah. Like that cooked down sort of sweet, not quite pie filling. - It's like a bit grainy almost. Yeah. Yes, that too. Our tasters were not fans of this sauce. This was actually at And people really found It felt to them, you &quot;It seems like a bunch of spices fell into the mix by accident&quot;. It's just like, you know- - Yeah you're cooking and oh, you knock over the - And Aunt Nora's never gonna notice. - Yes. But we noticed. - Yes we did. So yeah, so this was not one of our - Sad. (upbeat music ends) the look of this. It's bright red, it's obviously jellied, you can see the ridges. But it doesn't look tight, And there's a whole - There is. It's sort of baffling, right? It's both jellied with ridges and there's a whole berry in there. - I like the flavor. It's a little mild. And again, I'm getting those skins that are a little bit off putting. - Yep. narrow swathes, these are big strips. - [Joe] Or at least I just got one anyway. - I'm getting a lot of sweetness, here. This had so much promise. - You were so excited. - I was so excited. And it is failing to deliver. Somehow even the jellied - Yeah. there's not a ton of flavor. - Like it looked and felt so good. Which are probably the two - Right, right. Yes. But then it tastes and in the mouth. - I think something this has distracting flavors. - There's nothing competing You know, there's no there's no cinnamon. But this one actually maybe from something else 'cause it's a little flat. It does. It really- - It just needs something, maybe some astringency from the spices. Yeah. And I have one cranberry (Kate and Joe laughing) And I wish it weren't. (drum rolling ends) Organic Whole Cranberry Sauce. - [Joe] Mm. And we had one - We did, the one that you It wasn't our favorite, but I think it was the organic kid snack. - Yeah. - [Joe] This one, it doesn't - No, it's too bad. And that is such an interesting thing about supermarket products, is that you might really and then something that is it's another cranberry sauce- - Just kind of fails to deliver. So unfortunately not our favorite. Actually this was our People compared it to (Joe laughs) - Yes. not what you want. - Lacking in flavor. And they thought that you know, for a jellied, it kind of, sort of falls apart, kind of loses its firm - Yeah. I mean like you're like, oh it's got a then it releases. Like it feels like it's gonna and it just doesn't deliver. Too watery. So ultimately People just actually found it unpleasant. - We haven't got to the winner yet, have we? We shouldn't have told you - I shouldn't have told you. All right, well we have number eight. You can see what you think of it. - Okay I'm gonna come into - You better. You better. I promise. I promise. You can disagree, it's okay. - Okay. It's okay? (upbeat music) (upbeat music ends) we have our ninth and final sample. - You've been such a good sport. - This has been a really - Who knew? Who knew it Okay. Tell me what you're - Okay so I'm seeing the ridges, so I know this is jellied. - Or I'm assuming it's jellied. Nice and glistening. Oh, I like the textures, It's got a nice color, it's not quite as vivid as the last one, but it's- - It's definitely red. Hm. - A lot of acidity. - A lot of acidity - Not very sweet. I get good cranberry flavor from it. Doesn't hit you over the head like the favorite one that we had, the whole berry one. - But yeah, you really get that acidity. - Yes. It hits you. Like this almost like a palate warmer upper- - Or something like that, you know? - No, I can see that. You kind of- your mouth starts watering and you are just gonna - You're ready. So bring I am ready. Bring me your mashed potatoes- - Bring me my gravy. Bring me my turkey. - You're very bossy at Thanksgiving. - Well this is quite an - [Kate] I like this one. It's simple, straightforward, - Yeah. I mean, of the jellied ones, I think this probably is my favorite. I wouldn't rank it- - My top one. - But- Well this is good. So we a whole berry guy. A hundred percent. - Now you know your astrological sign. - That's right. and that you're a- all the stuff, yep - Yeah, whole berries. - I have to admit, I like a jellied sauce. I find it charming. You know? You're going on Thanksgiving to make Why not lean in, you know, embrace something - I just can't quite be - All right, well we'll agree to disagree. - We'll agree to disagree. - But we still like it. - We do. Yes. - We do agree that we like it. (Joe laughs) This is Ocean Spray Jellied Cranberry Sauce. That is so surprising, 'cause this is Ocean Spray. We didn't love the first one, although actually I the tasters quite liked it. - [Joe] But it's definitely - [Kate] It is. - And you'd think it should be the same. - I know. I know. So that is something, so we've definitely learned with labels, brands are inconsistent You can't assume because you loved one you would like the other. - Right. the label with jellied and whole berry isn't always a clear indication. But I think we can agree in this instance, jellied on the label equals jellied in your bowl. - On your plate. Yes. You can have those perfect - You can, look at those. I mean iconic, I would go so far. - Is that how you serve - I would slice it. - Yeah, I would. - I would slice it, shingle it. You know, yeah. You don't just have it on a plate with a- - No, I can't do that. - I have to draw the line somewhere. (Joe and Kate laughing) Okay so our tasters also This is our winner in the jellied style. - Okay. that it was tangy, it was tart. - Yep. that it really had classic flavor. You know, to me it tastes a lot like just a cranberry juice you know, cooked out a little bit, a little more concentrated, sweetened a little bit. - We were big fans of this one, if you're looking for a you don't wanna make it from scratch. Or maybe you wanna make a relish and then also have a jellied on the table. - Right, you got appease everyone. - Exactly. - Yes. - I know, who knows. Why limit yourself? - So this is a great one. This is the one we think - [Joe] That makes a lot of sense. - [Kate] Here are the ATK reviews team's official results. Woodstock Whole Cranberry Sauce, Harry and David Cranberry Relish, and Williams Sonoma Jellied Cranberry were at the bottom of our list, Slightly better, recommended were Stonewall Kitchen New Woodstock Organic Cranberry Sauce and Gefen Whole Berry. We can recommend Ocean Finally, our ATK recommended favorites, for best whole berry option, New England Cranberry And our favorite jellied sauce, Ocean Spray Jellied Cranberry Sauce. (upbeat music)