[ORGANISER] Andreas, please come up to the stage. [ANDREAS] Hello everyone. 1. Bitcoin is dead. [Laughter] It clearly can't work. It won't scale. The true innovation at the heart of this technology, This technology will create new opportunities and financial services companies across the world, 2. Blockchain is a joke. Bitcoin is the only thing that matters. It will make banking obsolete. All central banks Within just a decade, every currency in the Both of these positions are ridiculous, simple-minded, For every complex question, there is one very This is a very nuanced space. It is a space that has existed for only seven years. Yes, it does represent something truly revolutionary: in the way we organise authority from hierarchical systems to network-centric flat systems. It is a re-imagining of what it means to have It is a new system for disintermediating intermediaries. All of these things are true, but we don't -- which is the most exciting part of my job. Bitcoin is one of the few spaces, one of the where I feel that I am sitting on the front History is not the past, history is how we We are doing this right now worldwide. By &quot;we,&quot; I don't just mean Bitcoin. Before we go to a very simplistic answer, or the opposite extreme where we discount Bitcoin that is silly on its face... Something that &quot;serious&quot; people, scientists Before we go to these two extreme positions, What is Bitcoin? What do these things have at their very core How do you tell them apart? What applications do they have? My goal today is to really try to answer these questions. What is Bitcoin? Bitcoin is the first blockchain. Bitcoin is the largest open, global Bitcoin is the first borderless, transnational, open It enables innovation without permission, with high resistance to censorship, coercion, and geopolitical manipulation. Bitcoin is a mathematical proof system that is It exhibits a principle that on the internet -- which of course terrifies people. Finance without concern for Neutral routing of transactions, equal for everyone? That idea is terrifying. Where [is authority involved]? It's almost as if, suddenly, we no longer Instead, anyone can publish What will the world come to? What the internet did for communication, It is introducing a fundamentally different to do transactions without recourse to from the collaboration and computation It uses a blockchain, but the blockchain is If you focus too much on the blockchain, What is the most important technology of the internet? What is the really important invention TCP/IP? Packet-switching? TLS? But to take the internet and consider it only the internet and an intranet or your Are they really? Was the real opportunity to be able Or is the power of the internet the fact that censorship-resistant, open-access, and This is the crucial issue. Where does the value of bitcoin derive from? Yes, it is a blockchain, but it is a very special blockchain. It is a blockchain that uses, as its fundamental Proof-of-work gives it certain characteristics with other consensus mechanisms. Bitcoin is fundamentally open, borderless, All of these characteristics are both Ironically, they are also the things that most critics &quot;It cannot be allowed to exist if it is &quot;If it has no ability to be controlled, Yet it exists. Bitcoin forgot to ask for permission. Out of this grand experiment that has lasted that is pushing us to re-imagine payment networks. Out of that, we [saw] the most brilliant marketing campaign in the history of disruptive technologies. Imagine if you've invented a new disruptive you manage to completely distract the incumbent and adopt the central premise of your technology &quot;disrupt their own business from the inside-out.&quot; If the Bitcoin community had presented banks and said, &quot;Put a billion dollars into training people Someone should have gotten the Nobel prize The truth is that the financial services environment seized on &quot;Blockchain&quot; because they saw within it the possibility of using some elements But the blockchain is not the In this effort, we see many In the early days of the internet, when companies no centralised security mechanism, This represented a terrifying departure As a result, most companies resisted and built to separate them, keep them controlled, They ended up with these stagnant islands Then we had the second wave of the internet, where in the space took their internal IT infrastructure, put everything on the internet, and fully harnessed We no longer live in a world of Oracle and IBM, in a world Apple is driving your IT faster than Oracle. Your systems are inside-out or they are stagnant. Collaboration is the name of the game. The most robust and secure systems are the and competitive disruption every single day. Through that process, they become more robust. It is ironic that 15-20 years later, we're repeating The question is: if TCP/IP isn't the magic the open-access, collaborative, global network, Does that mean that TCP/IP on your LAN or These are still powerful technologies However, the best thing you can do with an For that, you need the internet. Bitcoin is the internet of money. Does that mean that Bitcoin will No. Does that mean that Bitcoin will always be What is special about Bitcoin is that it represents anonymity, censorship resistance, open access, That engine creates an explosion It connects the vast number of under-banked About 4 billion people could become connected, or a simpler Nokia text-messaging phone, The open blockchain will change this world. Today, there is one open blockchain that matters, I can't predict that it will always be the only Why? Because it might not be &quot;the best.&quot; But very often, in technology, &quot;the best&quot; is not what wins. TCP/IP wasn't &quot;the best.&quot; In fact, we now realise that it had fundamental and many other things. Yet TCP/IP was good enough at scale, with It has now become un-upgradeable. TCP/IP is so embedded into global networking and has resisted its own upgrade for almost 20 years. &quot;IPv6 is coming.&quot; [Laughter] Any day now... But clearly, IPv4 is dead to email and attachments, to voice, to video, Of course it possibly can't. It doesn't for a while, until it does, and then Bitcoin can't scale to Visa, until it does. Bitcoin can't But I can tell you what Bitcoin can scale to: that remains up and running for 24 hours per day, without a single successful attack Not because there have been no attempts, but because for 24 hours per day, [365 days per year], by some of the [How do I know this]? Because Bitcoin has It is a system that is on the internet and lives right in the As it survives, it gets stronger every day. If that's what Bitcoin is, maybe this will be I can't predict that. What I can tell you without any uncertainty, within less than two decades by open, global, transnational, censorship-resistant, largely anonymous, privacy-protected payment networks With optimisations. Maybe it will be something unrecognisable from Or maybe we'll call it something else. I remember, when I was in IT, how people kept then 10Mb, then 100Mb, then 1Gb. &quot;It could never scale.&quot; Yet today, Think about it for a second: The brand, the frame size, and The switching algorithm? Nope. The network topology? Nope. What survived is the brand. Therefore the question is: did Ethernet scale? Sure did, as long as you keep Can Bitcoin scale? It depends. What are the characteristics that The 21 million coin limit and predictable issuance rate. The proof-of-work algorithm that is decentralised You cannot change that. We're going to maintain anonymity and privacy. We're going to distribute these powerful tools When you think about this, we're not talking about We're talking about everyone with a smartphone A bank with the potential of international wiring and termination, liquidity generation, and many other One day, a decade or so from now, a six-year-old and become a &quot;banker,&quot; perhaps even issue That sounds insane, but that is absolutely that any individual on this planet can issue an The recipe exists. Will it be Bitcoin or But it will be an open, global, private, censorship- Then the question becomes: what are we going to do Some of the banks will adapt. Blockchains Blockchains have certain useful characteristics as a If you say, &quot;I have a blockchain,&quot; what that It opens many questions. For example, what is the consensus algorithm? What is the model for currency or token generation? What are the characteristics for security? If you start asking those questions, you can Is it open or closed? Does it use proof-of-work Are we talking about a &quot;proof-of-authority,&quot; centralised as a consensus consortium A closed, permission-based access Maybe that's what we're looking at. But when you're talking about that, you need to What does it do and what does it not do? Just because it is a blockchain doesn't mean If I take a Formula One car that is beautifully designed this car can go 250 miles per hour. Fantastic, but on what road? If I take it into downtown Milan, my average speed But even if, for whatever miraculous reason, to go 250 miles per hour, the car would disintegrate Just because it is a powerful vehicle doesn't it can still operate. It has to be suited for the purpose. Let's examine some of the nuances. One of the things that people suggest blockchains [As in], once you can record something on But immutability is not a characteristic of blockchains; immutability is an artefact of The open blockchain, Bitcoin, has immutability you cannot recreate an alternative version of history by re-writing the blockchain without That needs to be computed. You can only affect, with the most immense amount of computation (hundreds of hexahashes per second)... Let's say you did have that. You could re-write the history of this afternoon, and most certainly not last year. Even if you controlled all the hashing power to re-write the proof-of-work on the Bitcoin The amount of computation is unfathomable. You'd have to wait for everybody else to stop doing They will continue into the future, creating a longer Immutability is a characteristic of That has some very serious implications. Censorship resistance and coercion resistance [depend If you combine those two facts, you Let's say you have a consortium consensus I don't know why you would apply that, but signing transactions in a round-robin fashion you bought at great expense from a consultant. What happens when you are served with a judicial and make the balance in the bank What happens if you're not served with a judicial or by a regulator to do that? Not that it would ever happen... I mean, in a democracy we don't just cut off the finances [Laughter] The problem is that you can actually coerce the financial history of transactions. That represents a moral hazard The next question is: why would you use This is something that mystifies me. SWIFT is an antiquated pain in the butt, expensive, The equity clearing systems are not as bad, Certainly, you're directing a lot of profit. Why not just implement a banking consortium One of the things with a centralised clearinghouse (billions of transactions per second is no problem). A blockchain can't replicate that level of efficiency. There's no way you can do it. But let's say you [ignore that]. What you're saying is that you're going to replace and instruments that they're clearing, that is completely independent by design, through separation of concerns and duties... market makers and participants and Until now at least, the brokerage game is gamed The futures' game is rigged, the foreign exchange You're going to give that to a consortium You're going to do this with a blockchain Well, that's a double-edged sword. But if you make it fully transparent, then and leaks that blockchain, forget the Panama Papers! This is Panama Terabytes! [Laughter] I would love to see the black budgets of some How do you protect the keys? How do you protect the keys that are used You're creating an enormous concentration If those keys are stolen, even just as a denial-of-service But that's okay, right? Banks know Oh wait, not even the NSA can do that. There is no system in the world we can design Bitcoin's answer is to decentralise the power so to press a button / pull the lever and The whole point is decentralisation. Blockchains can effectively decentralise They will absolutely generate cost-savings for banks. They will affect the margins, increase efficiency. Like intranets, they will be very useful tools... In fact, I think you should implement an overlay and replace SWIFT, swiftly! [Laughter] In the end, it doesn't matter. I'm not critical of blockchains because I am morally or I think banks have bigger problems than Bitcoin. I have some questions about the practicality and decentralisation; blockchains that which don't have permission-less innovation. I don't think [that kind of blockchain] In the end, I really don't care. I'm not interested in the 1% marginal decrease in cost I don't care. There are four billion people who are under-banked. With an open blockchain, we can change that. That is the team I'm on. Thank you. [Applause] [ORGANISER] Thank you, Andreas. [ORGANISER] Thank you for your compelling blockchain, and the future of our central banks. We have a representative right here from the we have in our wallet, our financial Before we go on to the next speaker, as you are on the compelling story of the day. Who do you think is Satoshi Nakamoto? Do you know? [Laughter] I have to inform you that [ANDREAS] I don't know. I don't care. It doesn't matter. Bitcoin is not a system of proof by authority, It is a system of independent, What that means is that it stands on its own I have no idea who Euclid was, or even if Euclid existed. Euclidean geometry is part of my daily life was a group of people or an individual, whether It doesn't matter. Some people will say, &quot;What happens if Satoshi Nakamoto sells I'm a bit more worried about what happens if China's [Laughter] Percentage-wise, that's a bigger problem! What happens if Saudi Arabia decides to... change fundamental supply What happens if the Walmart family decides the yuan Market fundamentals mean Bitcoin survives regardless. The only thing the identity of Satoshi Nakamoto is guaranteed to deliver is sensationalist articles... that give us more appeal to authority. In the end, Bitcoin is not governed by Satoshi Nakamoto. Thank you. [ANDREAS] Do we have any time for questions? [ORGANISER] We have many questions from and time is passing quickly, I would and maybe [answer the rest] later on. Is there any question you would like to answer? [ANDREAS] Let me see, just one second. [ANDREAS] I think &quot;will the success of blockchains or a pull factor&quot; is happening now. I'd like to shift that a tiny bit and talk about the I had said that we &quot;forgot to ask for permission,&quot; This is not a system that is going to work It is not a system that is going to have an It is not a system that will become better thereby replicating the problems of the past. It [does not intend] to replace Visa for a developed That is not the point. It is not a system Bitcoin will effect import / export businesses, out-sourcing, and cross-border transactions It will serve those who are not being served by banks. Bitcoin is irrelevant to banks They cannot use it because banks are fundamentally does not permit them to use systems without identity. Outside of that prison are four billion people who But they can use Bitcoin. They don't care about banking, and Thank you. [Applause]