I don't know what it is about this time of like I want to shop. So even after more than a I always just kind of get that urge to buy or something fun to get excited about. I think So the days are getting shorter and darker. It's just that little itch to kind of just buy yourself up a bit or have something to look forward to home cuz your indoors more. Something nice bit more like put together. I wanted to buy a really dark there this time of year I've all kinds of different lamps and getting really feel like you know we want to get a little cozy. candles. Something to like comfort ourselves. But just consumerism gets pushed on us even more, Like what day is it today? Is it like... Amazon today. So by the time you're seeing this video, of course Halloween is coming up. So the stores spooky decor. And then of course there is Black fast. And I just find as soon as October starts, through the roof even more. And even if you're you don't consider yourself a minimalist, but you buying and like what you're spending your money your home, if you continually get all of these it just sparks something. So I thought this little talk about this. How to stop the urge to something fancy, something nice. Or the impulse what we already have, practicing gratitude, living with what you already have. So basically time. Welcome back everyone, feel free to join disclaimer before we begin. Let me set this this video to tell you that you shouldn't buy sitting on my high horse being like: I never buy be about. So if you do want to buy something, That's not the intention of this video to like that. It's just a kind of a nice voice to counter buy buy buy buy buy. So I thought this would be a this video what you feel like you can use and the other day I bought this. I don't know if name. Nijntje is Dutch and I have always loved the HEMA is like the Dutch Target. And I saw officially like Nijntje merch. I thought this was buy. I just got it. I didn't know what I wanted to felt like okay, I walked past this thing for 10 buy something that I did need. And this time, have this in my home now, I have no idea what I'm considering using this for those little candles. during this time of the year to make things extra I'm going to use this for that. But still, just to like in good fun. All right now that we got that I find super super helpful when you feel that urge stuff. And just kind of go online and you know it is. It is something that I read in this book I'm sorry. It is When things don't go your I really recommend it. And to my big surprise, is decluttering and minimalism. He doesn't really saying. So that was a fun surprise for me. And why minimalism is so great for protecting our something new that I had never really considered it was really eye opening and I thought it was is the reason that buying something that we've happy and nice, at least in the short term, is not But more so the fact that we now finally have something in our brain that we want. So we don't yeah I want a new purse. I want a new purse. I nothing like little voice telling us that we want why we kind of feel happy that we now own the said if it is actually the purse making you happy, you had that purse. And I think you know in most would feel happy and content for years. But that's new thing and we're just kind of like oo you know quickly. Because then we start wanting something like the acquiring of it. And that's when we start the reasons why I've always been really drawn to that label of being like a minimalist. Because or even like a really rigid minimalist. I'm more it's not exactly that. But I like how it brings me something on my mind. Like now I'm considering a been thinking about it for a while and I don't your head distracting you from the life that you so happy with my life. I do have everything I'm am really content with it. And if you can really with what you already have, instead of always this is not good enough, or if you could just buy or your home would be more aesthetically pleasing. organizers that you see on Tik Tok apparently now. then they buy a container so that they can pour the container like a a plastic container and they If you don't have all of that stuff going on in after having read this, I do really try to focus I already have. And I just take a look around and and I'm like wow, I have a beautiful place. I have really don't need anything else or anything more. lot of white. I don't know. I switched shirts like now I was like no, I cannot switch my shirt and record. But now I'm not sure about wearing a white have been doing myself and that I really, really nice, or you know... I'm not on social media, so I are the things that nowadays are like thrown at make you want to you know click on that link, that someone's wearing. As soon as you you feel it. Bookmark it. Or write it down somewhere. Put now button immediately. Just think about it for something or I think about something it's like part of my brain is not working very well. My And so it really helps if you just let it sink. reaction that you had when you saw that item is about it. And I'm not saying that you shouldn't few days. Often times, I do find that after a few also not buy it. And then I just don't. And if then at least you know like this is actually or wearing. Then you could do your research. So you saw, I don't know, some kind of gadget that make your life easier or something. Then you could better or maybe uh they are more affordable. could compare. Read reviews. Actually look up they're legit. So that that's a really important find it especially helpful to go to the place in something for my wardrobe, then I stand in front I go to the bathroom, etc. And then you just kind this? Maybe it needs electricity, you need to an outlet near where I want to use it? Do I have be like really a nuisance and in the way? So get want to use it and just kind of like see what it still excited, and you did your research, and the would add value for you, then by all means get it. right this next one is about people just looking we don't measure up or comparing ourselves to we feel like oh, if we just bought her clothes, appearances can fool you and material items do remember when I was a little kid. My parents never We did always have food to eat. Our parents could we needed was covered. But they needed to work actually like money left over at the end of the with my parents. And if I wanted something, Because my parents most likely couldn't afford for my birthday or for Christmas. So if I wanted I would just save up my allowance so that I could with that kind of upbringing. Because it really save and everything. Just be responsible when it sometimes it did kind of bother me. For example fancy neighborhood. And she actually lived in a familiar with Dutch homes, but freestanding homes of for the rich. So we don't have a lot of space most people that I know live in apartments. Then is kind of like the attached homes that you see expensive. And then, now we're kind of crossing Those people live in a home that has like two people who have like serious money can afford a lived. And I remember the first time that I went her bedroom, which was huge. My bedroom was just a Which again, was fine. But she had a sleeping bedroom. And she had a huge amount of stuffed the fancy ones. Of like a tiger or a panther and away. And I was actually a little bit jealous like she was living the life. She had all the huge bedroom. She had a huge backyard. It's like actually really impressed by her lifestyle. But really saw that just what you see on the outside Because that friend also opened up to me. And said or anything. But she wasn't really happy just the life she was living. She had some some when my eyes kind of opened. Again, I was really that. If you have all these things, I just assumed So often times, I feel like people might kind or who just really look like really put together, like a Tesla or something. Or like a bigger the housing crisis. If you can afford to buy like And so when you do that, and when you compare I don't know, a nice uh brand watch or something. You might think like yeah, I could have a piece that you might get. But really, it doesn't say of money might actually not be so happy at that a lot of money might actually be super happy and attractive to you might feel very insecure. And the beauty standards of the like conventionally really confident. And be really like radiant just, you never know. And if you feel like you things that are really just kind of outside of you see in that that image. Because that's not know someone's full picture. All right the fourth I don't know, some kind of fruit. It's nice. So is something that I'm really doing like right now, make your life nicer or romanticize things like something. Basically conditioning yourself or you want to make things extra nice and like daily for example, or this season, that Because that's not really sustainable. Every go out and buy something new for yourself. So using exactly what you already have. So as soon it myself. I was like okay, last winter I got kind as soon as it got like dark and gray and rainy, you know what, the winter... Winter is coming! So to do that by buying a bunch of fall things. already have. I have a couple blankets. I still have a really nice book that I'm reading right a while. I have everything I need. I have when I do yoga make it extra nice. Like you know some kind of herbal tea. There are so many free to actually go out and buy something for that. think especially during the season where ads crazy with the hauls and the Christmas gift obviously. To really limit your exposure. Or at you want to go shopping. So this can be people and I have a really good example for that myself. then you might want to go out and shop to kind of of the ads and marketing that we are subjected really control... like as soon as you go out to gifts and whatever is coming your way. But your control. And that you can curate. So for example makeup. Skincare a little bit but not necessarily am really into home design, home decor, furniture. channel that I follow is Nick Lewis. I really and things like that. He's also just a funny guy notice that he's always mentioning like cool Ikea home and stuff. And it makes me want to shop. I like oh I want to make my nice my my home So I've noticed that watching his videos, I'm like Oh that's actually quite nice. And that's as much as I love his channel and his videos, At least for a little while. So maybe you could do and you're always watching people who buy craft out shopping, just do a little break from it. And cannot want what you didn't know existed. And of these images, of all these things that you're you start wanting them. Even if they're like their easily or comfortably afford. You at least will lot of heads space. Now that we're nearing the Are you also experiencing this increased urge season of the year? I would love to know. And if please also share them in the comments with me be really interesting. And I also have a video I think yesterday, is from Elin Lesser. I'll will aspirational creep and I thought that was really you know. Like buy yourself into a slightly better afford. Or you know when you're being promoted on a link and now they think that you might want points to share about aspirational creep video link in the description box in case you're you would like to have access to more of them, then consider joining us on Patreon. So I have a month on there, and some extra like behind the doing that for a while, so there are I think like you like. And you can join for $5 a month. Of anytime. You can kind of just catch up on all the lots of fun stuff. And the income that I make with Because um yeah... being a content creator, the like reliable. Or you never know like how your take breaks when you need them, if YouTube is just a really really great way to feel financially for business expenses and all the things that And I also have a newsletter, which is You will always get a newsletter with a little contemplation for the week, that too. All right I'm going to let you go. comments, conversations down below. Let me know all again soon. Bye-bye. So the other night, I ad agency and I had to make all of these ads really don't exist. I was writing jingles, had all