As intriguing as space is, you don't have dynamic and beautiful celestial object out there; an oxygen-rich atmosphere, and a comparatively unique characteristic; it is the only place we the place we call home. And yet, even though we learn about our own planet. So, what makes this and what have we discovered about it so far? and together we will delve into everything Let's start off by giving you some context to this pear-shaped, or even egg-shaped. I think this think of a very odd-looking Earth. Although, sphere. The Earth is wider at the equator than because of the rotation of the planet, causing the furthest point from the Earth's centre but rather the Chimborazo volcano in Ecuador. Earth has long been the talk of ancient they tried to place our location in the universe Do we orbit the Sun? And (dare I say this on the idea of a round Earth had been bandied around it wasn't until Eratosthenes around 240 BC that method he used was quite ingenious; he heard that Southern Egypt), the Sun was directly overhead. Sun still cast a shadow. Using the angles of the of the Earth accurately to within 5-10%. The 16th where we discovered - through the help of Nicolaus Kepler and observations by Galileo Galilei - not the Earth. Today, building on the legacy we now know that we are the third planet from the Earth orbits on average 150 million km from and 152 million km when it's furthest away. unsurprisingly. But what is interesting is that as you may think. For instance, Earth actually why every 4 years we have a leap year to account meant to match up with an orbit of the Moon around closely connected. But the Moon takes 27.3 days to that! After all, it would be difficult to fit some messy, leftover days, so those in charge of bother trying. And, in a similar fashion to our hours either. A sidereal day on Earth, or in other fixed stars in the sky, is roughly 23 hours and day? Well, the answer is that we don't actually solar day, or the point where the Sun goes full as the previous day. How is this different from a Earth isn't stationary, and as it orbits it moves changing the angles relative to the Sun. It needs exactly overhead again each day, which is what even more complicated than that if you really want elliptical orbit and axial tilt, true solar days In order to counterbalance this, we use the mean throughout the year together. Going further again, rotation, our days have actually become longer make such a difference to us, but 500 million hours, and there were about 400 days in the year! more complicated than you might have thought! observed from the ground through time-lapses across our view; the exact axis of rotation of the seemingly circle around. The orbit around the Sun that throughout the year, the Sun's position at can be seen in an analemma, a photo of combined Sun moves in a figure of eight shape throughout movement is due to the axial tilt of the Earth as the change in seasons, with the Sun being higher in east-to-west is due to the orbital eccentricity equation of time, which is (very basically) sidereal day, a true solar day, and a mean shows the combined effects of the equations of eccentricity. Although we haven't actually done analemma on another planet, each planet's analemma it would look like on the other planets. Again, days, orbit, and axial tilt of the planets. to the plane of the solar system. This axial Interestingly, the changes in temperature between of a point on Earth during that hemisphere's sunlight hitting that point. Being an extra few such a large role when the distance between the we would find that the Earth's perihelion, or would make a massive difference because at the Sun than at the aphelion, or the furthest part make a big difference, could you take a guess at actually only in January! What really makes a big the surface area the sunlight hits. During summer, a much more concentrated amount of sunlight. the same amount of sunlight spreads out over a days are longer, allowing more sunlight As sunlight hits the ground or ocean, heat reasonably dense and compact atmosphere, although like Venus and Titan. It consists of mainly trace amounts of other gases like carbon dioxide. It can vary wildly from only 0.01% to 4%; but that makes clouds in the atmosphere. 03 is also called the Ozone layer. This Ozone absorbs a lot which protects life on land and Earth would be a dangerous place to go outside serves life in many different ways; it provides meteors to burn up before striking the around the globe. Without the atmosphere the Earth would be a far chillier place: -18degC on The atmosphere also drives one of the most As the Sun warms the Earth and its oceans, This water vapour later cools, and condenses on form the water particles can travel considerable of rain. The water is then transported back to cycle. Not only does the travelling water life that lives on the surface; from plants, to Another hugely important system on Earth that predominantly its oceans. The prevalence of of Earth. The oceans on Earth are vast, making sense of the scale of Earth's oceans, if the entire planet would be covered in an ocean almost and the Earth's surface is highly variable. of Earth; its plate tectonics. You see, Earth is a hot and active mantle. We sometimes see us as the plates on the crust bump, scrape and earthquakes, mountains and trenches. Using an you can see clearly mountain ranges and deep tectonics. As a result of this, you may think that and perhaps to individuals in the wrong place at the surface keeps the Earth fertile and fresh. consisting of primarily iron and nickel. System at 5.5g/cm3, and this is due mainly to the the outer core reaching roughly 5,000km in but also has extreme pressures of 360 The core is also where the magnetic field of kinetic energy into electrical energy, generating of like the magnetic field around a giant dipole the ground, as it diverts solar winds - or highly planet and also to its poles. Without this, solar charged particles, which would destroy our DNA lucky enough to see beautiful aurora, where the common colour for auroras on Earth is green due to There's one more very unique aspect about Earth its Moon, also known as Luna. Although many other relative to the size of the planet. The result of night, a huge celestial object that is so close we eye. But having something so massive so close to Moon influences our ocean tides through its own causing a bulge as the planet rotates. This although to a less noticeable degree. reason Earth has such active plate tectonics. it kind of blows my mind to think of how many and developed on Earth. But as a result of of a species with a population of more than 8 to question our own existence and to find our me to see the beauty of this planet. Thanks home that people would have only dreamed of 100 beautiful and welcoming as this, our home planet? But for now, thanks for watching. This has been and it's been quite a journey. I and saw something that helped you experience out across the solar system. But don't there's plenty more to learn about. The and there's always more to discover. that's as fascinating and incredible Life on this Earth has evolved under the constant that it's in our very DNA. Our eyes can detect sending signals to our brain to suppress the telling us it's time to wake up. This who's woken up far too early with light pouring the sponsor of today's video, Manta Sleep, Manta Sleep's high-end adjustable sleep masks out the light, letting you get naps during the The mask is designed with premium materials your comfort and sleep quality. They're cheaper and they can come with cooling pads, which I sleep helps elevate all aspects of your life, in the description below, for 10% off your first you get a good night's sleep. You're welcome. of Astrumnauts over at Patron who help us everyone chasing the algorithm can be hit and keep making the content we love and if you haven't never been a better time to get in on the party you join you'll be able to watch the whole video questions to our team once again a huge team meanwhile click the link to this playlist