The 2000's were quite the decade for Cartoon about what the network's best era was, this decade that gave us classics like "Billy Friends", "Ben 10", "Samurai Jack", had of course, many memorable villains. They from being typical bullies to aliens of these villains are the most evil, and I'm Brad with WickedBinge, and this is Cartoon Evil. the least evil, and then working our way down the most ruthless and vile. Let's begin! of "Codename: Kids Next Door". Is this the Toiletnator in one word, it would be a legitimate threat, and he can easily be the other villains in the series. As a matter fact, he has defeated the villains more than episode, Operation: F.L.U.S.H., saw Toiletnator their treehouse. Unfortunately for him, it infiltrated the treehouse after the KND were disguised as them. Most of the other villains side. In the episode Operation: A.W.A.R.D.S., villain" to the character Potty Mouth. If villain of your specific theme, can you really Next up, hailing from the center of the Earth, of after the Mesopotamian God of Death, you'd definitely not expecting someone in some evildoing under his belt. In his debut "R", Nergal takes Billy and Mandy away Grim, and forces them to be his friends for in his tendrils. Grim finally comes to his gives even the Grim Reaper some trouble. Nergal from their reunion. That, for the He is only really interested in companionship, Aunt Sis. After that, he is on much friendlier where he is an antagonist, he is more conclusion, while Nergal is more than capable being a villain, his lack of a truly evil At Our next slot goes to another Billy &amp; Mandy Grim's greatest opponent. The two went to Grim. He even attempted to cheat his way into actions would have major ramifications on Boogey's ballots from the box, his friend was the one cheating. She would then go on Boogey remains a pain in Grim's neck even repeatedly tries to show that he is scarier do Boogey Adventure, he sets sail against the in an attempt to retrieve Horror's Hand, place as can be quite the persistent foe, a scary being scary, in fact. He repeatedly fails scare modern children, who he feels have become the tuba. While he's an enormous troublemaker, ranking on the list. Besides, to paraphrase scared of the Boogeyman after they're eleven". Fun fact: the real world dish Endive is rather is an apt word to describe this character. like Boogey before her, is a rival. She is is to Chowder. Unlike Boogey, who believes ever prove it, Endive believes she's a better it up. She constantly outdoes Mung Daal when ego. Endive relishes the opportunity to make Your Service, she promises Mung and Chowder in exchange for providing her labor. They including peeling Growatatoes, which expand she has killed the two from this task, as to refuses to give them that which they were She did it solely to torture them. Endive see no real defeated, nor is she reformed. She continues live her life believing she is better than to prove is one chef you don't want to get angry! friend we'd all like to forget. From "Foster's While this character only appeared in one impression on viewers. Don't lie, you watched his episode! In his one appearance, Foster's after his family believe he is of a troublemaker around the house. After gang, he proceeds to spend the rest of the ways. When Bloo and the rest of the cast try was him, Bendy will lie his way out of trouble, Even after sucking up to characters like Frankie, them behind their backs. This seems to indicate cast. Even prior villains in the list only or group. Bendy also receives no comeuppance of the episode, Bloo is still considered the learn from his mischief, coupled with his earn We're taking a trip to Camp Leaky Lake for Lumpus from "Camp Lazlo"! Like a lot of He two in particular that get the brunt of his misfortune that comes his way, like when TV movie Where's Lazlo?, Lumpus was only feared what his superiors would do to The other character who Lumpus frequently Lumpus never pays him, and actuallyended his of his jumps. One episode even a salt-shaker! He is usually only happy confiscating items from them, which he then probably wondering why he is this high he really worse than someone like Bendy? Well, gets this spot on the list because of one He of kids, or become a rival to a character, he committed a straight up crime that got revealed Lumpus was actually just some guy who his identity. For an entire summer, he not in the position to do so, and had a man the first villain on the list to actually arrested for their actions, so that definitely one character to keep your eye out for, otherwise We're going back to Foster's Home for Royal Duchess Diamond Persnickety, the First, Duchess for short. Duchess is an extremely based on the work of Picasso, she believes should bask in her presence. She loves being wake up in the morning without needing someone desire is to be adopted by a rich family. will extremely narrow view of beauty, and looks Even when she helped Eduardo in The similar to her own. Her dislike of the as she is hated by almost every other imaginary Bloo, who stole her thunder in the pilot teamed up with Mac's older brother, Terrance. him to the Extremosaurs. Despite failing, anytime the opportunity arises. She makes this high up on the list because she's the try to did flirt with destroying their enemies, it the first thing to come to her mind when Bloo her. Even Boogey just started off as a school a work of art, but we just see her as a giant We'll be taking a stroll down the lane for From Down the Lane of "Kids Next Door"! of and quiet. They are easily one of theKND's other villain in the show. They've sent the KND, and were even the ones episode saw them try to destroy the from becoming a kid again. The Delightful of their birthday parties, they invite guests to eat the cake other than them. While not that high on the list because they do a good side to them. There were several episodes Operation: I.T. had them work together after to all the children in the world. Also, they Delightful Children were originally the operatives brainwashed by Father. Ultimately, their heroic from securing a higher spot on the list. Regardless, definitely ones to watch out for! have the pirate Stickybeard! Unlike other out to destroy the KND. Instead, he focuses efforts on stealing their candy. He steals sees the Kids Next Door as his greatest rivals, real attempt to stop him. Despite spending does have redeeming qualities to him. He once monster, as he hates vegetables far more than experiences a rivalry of sorts with Numbuh him. He teamed up with her in Operation L.I.C.O.R.I.C.E. who was an old cabin boy on Stickybeard's his his more heroic qualities, Stickybeard is up, Stickybeard will be right there with them take out the KND. He was even nominated for ceremony, so that's got to count for something? his own series, he is still a villain, through through. It's Hector Con Carne from "Evil obsessed with domination. As a child, he conquered playground, and would even steal other's for a rich Playboy. Unfortunately, an body. He was kept alive after several of of a circus bear named Boskov. Throughout attempts to conquer Earth. One episode pie, another had him trying to freeze theEarth. His attempt to freeze Earth saw the Day of the Dreadbot focused on Hector him. Even when his schemes aren't foiled stopped by the hero Cod Commando. his bear body, which is, unsurprisingly, rather a large invasion, only for it to come undone doesn't even have thumbs! We're talking of smack about Hector, but he does have a is Earth, and will never let anyone stand in way. Let's not forget that he is the head tons one can assume a supervillain would have. at making a mess of things. We can also all his attempts at world domination, to have done so. We believe that is more than We're sailing to Stormalong Harbor for the from "The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack"! major appearance, Willy!, he gave the people an However, we think there is enough to starters, he is the first villain to definitely a kill count, unlike Hector who we assume adventurer has ever lived to tell the tale that comes into contact with him, whether That's right, Stickybeard isn't the only We'll Flapjack at times, he will gladly take him Willy and Flapjack are both candy lovers no surprise that Willy would have a rivalry with Flapjack. In conclusion, we feel Willy's seven seas make him a prime candidate for sure you ask him first! It'll save you a Our next entry takes us into the world of Hex, power. Most of his appearances to gain more magic powers, which he stop him in these quests, and he has no at risk. His debut episode, Lucky Girl, saw In addition to this, he's not exactly a parental figure, something that will be kind Charmcaster, usually tags along with him, Hex's complicated relationship with his been a few instances of her turning against be his undoing. Ultimately, he is lower than not him defeated twice, with the second time being of viciousness as the others, but his lack regard for others and ruthless demeanor get The next slot goes to another Ben 10 villain. Aloysius Animo seemed to have humble beginnings. who sought out the Verities Award for his were anything but humble. He held twisted costing him the award. This drove Dr. Animo for several years. When he finally came back the Transmodulator to mutate animals into could also use the device to reanimate the creatures. Aloysius did all of this only to who "stole" the award from him, Kelly. dangerous ways. He treats all who oppose him human. He never grows and realizes his experiments progresses, his experiments only become more the Mutant Ray focused on him learning to Aliens. He even tried to create a device that Dr. Animo makes great use of his intelligence, enemies. Even though his plans always fail, destruction behind him. Animo is easily the far, and they don't get much nicer from Our next character debuted in "Ben 10: Alien an equal In terms of appearance, he is a direct copy Ben, alien powers and all! Albedo started assisted the creator of the Omnitrix, Azmuth. omnitrix for himself. Believing he wasn't but his end there. He created a copy of the Omnitrix, him into an exact duplicate of Ben. Angered his new form, he seeks out Ben to get the him foiled, but he is always persistent in Battle, he even goes as far as to team up Vilgax to get the Omnitrix from Ben, which baddest there is. He continuously seeks out it be attacking castles of the Forever Knights, egotistical foe, and his obsession with making power put him this high on the list of devilry! Tennyson had to deal with. This time, it's than Kevin Levin? An Osmosian, Kevin has made things tough for Ben in the original others. His debut episode saw him and it started innocent enough with stealing a emerge when he rigged two trains to collide, had Ben not intervened. From that point He is obsessed with trying to kill Ben, freak after he tried absorbing the making messes for Ben to clean up, like the Omnitrix's power in an attempt to frame his power or anything like that. He truly to take Ben out, and even teams up with Vilgax shows how different Kevin is from Albedo, whereas Albedo wasn't. His ultimate goal Vilgax, who he sees as the two biggest obstacles showcase Kevin as an incredibly unpredictable is going to do next, which is what makes him The Goddess of Chaos, Eris from "Billy &amp; Mandy", probably scratching your heads with confusion but is she worse than someone like Kevin Eleven? enough to Eris that would make her one of that Everything chaotic that happens in the show Chaos Theory, where her relationship with chaos, leaving Earth in a state where With a world as chaotic as the one in "Billy Mandy", where characters die at the end back the next, this more than cements her Network's library. She's also directly Bears", zombies, capable of all kinds of chaos. In machine, which eventually led to the to be demolished in the process. Being thecause easily secures this high of a spot on We're down to the final five, everybody! Demongo of "Samurai Jack"! Demongo is is usually sent out by Aku to defeat warriors has defeated all those who stand against him, eventually meets his match against Samurai one. Demongo is undoubtedly one of the most He already has plenty of experience killing Jack, quickly outnumbering him. Demongo also hands, as the amount of warriors he throws no regard for the lives of others. To him, to because of his high body count, and his If you manage to please somebody like Fourth place goes to one of the KND's most motivated by one thing: his unyielding hatred the Delightful Children, into being his obedient C.A.K.E.D. - F.O.U.R., saw him attempt to making him probably the first villain on our of this list, Father is always a threat to them. other villains know this, too! Whenever the the villains in the show to win against the Kids may have been. Operation G.R.A.D.U.A.T.E.S. all KND operatives caught in its blast after he was turned into a KND operative, defeat would lead to one of his greatest the annual KND game of tag, where the last of the Kids Next Door. As he was technically leader. With a surprising history of victory, give him fourth place. This is one father don't want to make mad! how about his own father? That's right, While he only appeared in the TV left an impression as the greatest villain KND ever had to face. Grandfather was so evil two different occasions. The first was in by his own son, Numbuh Zero. Years later, recommissioned him into becoming Grandfather entire world's population into mindless factories he created. Grandfather also tries believes will finally rid the world of their Zero can defeat him once and for all. Grandfather villain to actually win against the hero, managed to rule the world and defeat the Kids completely outdoes the other villains in the to, but he also backstabs them and turns them mentioned how bad of a father figure he is! tapioca factories when they were children. love for his evil son. He sees him as a coward, rebelled against him, Numbuh Zero, than he place, and anyone who disagrees can get to What's more evil than conquering a world has conquered ten worlds and destroyed five course, talking about Vilgax of the "Ben Vilgax Ben has ever faced. The first time they ever defeated him. As a conqueror of worlds, more power. He seeks the Omnitrix out, using it to create an army of transforming Vilgax appears repeatedly throughout the When he reappears in "Ben 10: Alien Force", were to lose, Vilgax would conquer the Earth. the right to just destroy the planet. This also sees Vilgax come very close to finally Chromastone form. Ben is quickly revived, capable of killing Ben, earning him the title always fail in his quest for the Omnitrix, and vile creatures in the universe cement In our last two spots, we have seen a villain has conquered almost a dozen. Clearly, the who rules the entire universe if he were to what Aku of "Samurai Jack" does. Aku is history, not even just the 2000's. Aku began The likes of Odin, Ra, and other deities tried fragment of him managed to make its way to that he is extremely crafty and powerful. managed to escape the wrath of gods! While later in an attempt to take over the world. samurai warrior who wielded a magic sword, Shogun of Sorrow. Jack managed to defeat Aku, the future, sending Jack to a time where Aku in the future, Aku's tyranny has even expanded universe, and goes to great lengths to destroy time portals, and even try to take him out too. He'll destroy those who fail him, and living under his thumb feel safe. Aku is also list. it took was a quick laser blast to kill him. out his enemies! In conclusion, Aku is truly ideal villain. He's ruthless, crafty, corrupt, But what do you think? Let us know if you we missed! Be sure to click the notification where we look at the morality of all your importantly: stay wicked!