BIG TECH WON: been clear and absolute: growth over everything were willing to push through no matter the cost. collection or predatory pricing or monopolistic big tech kept charging forward hoping to maximize this strategy worked. The more they pushed, the convince whole new demographics and even countries this growth has allowed big tech to be some of the in the entire world, but it seems that big tech brute force their way through: market saturation. companies did not even consider simply because an internet connection. But, guess what? Everyone of the popular services offered by big tech. Take 98.9% of the market. In Indian, they control they control 96% and so on and so forth. And where they don't control nearly a 100% either aren't exactly open. They're just controlled by or Android Messaging and this is the case with billion users, Android has 3.3 billion users, billion users, Instagram has 2.3 billion users, of these market shares, you'll see that big tech In fact, just Google, Netflix, Facebook, Apple, internet traffic. So, safe to say that big STAGNATION IS A KILLER: may not seem like a big deal. After all, how hard make billions every week right? Well, that would the end goal for these companies. For most of Their goal was to just grow infinitely. And given than any previous industry, this strategy was market saturation, the goal becomes a lot harder. matter? Couldn't these companies just hang up saturation? Well, they could definitely hang up it because many of these companies would end up only thing holding up their massive valuations is currently worth just under $3 trillion but on an billion. Now, that's obviously an insane amount of ratio between their valuation and their annual about 30. In other words, if you were to buy the it would take you 30 years to make all your investment, you'd only be making a 3.3% yield on year long gamble with Apple just to end up making government bond. As you can see, investing in if you think that they're gonna continue doubling they're just gonna stay the same, it's a terrible stagnant Apple, their valuation would have to for mature companies with stagnant bottomlines ratios less than 10. Ford is at 6.78, Verizon is let's give Apple the benefit of the doubt and call would pay back in 10 years. Aka, the annual yield savings accounts and bonds making the investment of 10, their valuation would have to fall to amount but it's also $2 trillion less than their the rest of big tech. For Microsoft to come to PE Google would have to shed $1 trillion. Amazon would have to shed $600 billion. And I think now income has already been stagnating for 2 years, was briefly losing money, and Meta's net income company that has managed to continue growing is even have to speculate as to what would happen GEN 1 TECH: happens in basically every industry whether it you name it. Eventually, the exponentiality expectations settle down. This isn't to say that innovations that have yet to materialize whether than likely that these new revolutions will be current big tech gets left behind just like gen 1 are one of the most influential tech companies silicon wafers. Intel's founder, Gordon Moore, was they enjoyed tremendous growth between 1984 personal computer adoption peaked out. Everyone one and PC sales started to crater. In fact, PC isn't to say that the semi conductor instury as and TSMC have all figured out new market segments PC market, however, marked the top for Intel who years. And they're just one example. Dell was out of retirement, take the company private, on the other hand, ended up splitting into 2 PC manufacturing industry. Cisco was once the they would crash 80% and they have yet to recover AT&amp;T, and Verizon, and IBM, and Panasonic, and interesting thing about all of these companies ball. It's not like Xerox or Yahoo where they plummeting. No, these companies still and fundamentally speaking, they're actually is now making double the revenue that they triple the profits. But, with their PE all of this fundamental growth has meant nothing that I can think of that actually overcame this easy battle. It took Microsoft exactly 17 years not even accounting for inflation. If we account to finally live up to their dotcom valuations. had to grow 4 fold and their net income had to believing in modern big tech's growth story, to grow 2-3X in terms of revenue and net income that means they'll have to grow their net income they enjoy the same $3 trillion valuation. Big why they're scrambling to keep investor morale THE RACE TO MONETIZE: to come to this realization was Satya Nadella. from Steve Ballmer, one of the most controversial revenue and profits by 3 fold, but Microsoft of leadership. Satya saw this and decided that creating the next big thing and achieving infinite and Microsoft was very much a mature company. So, a tech holding company. Basically, he settled and started investing hundreds of billions in up growth left. Just recently, they closed their $69 the truth is, you can only do this so many times. billion acquisition doesn't move the needle. The In late 2018, he realized that iPhone sales were he decided to take control of the narrative products. Instead, he started focusing on services successful. But, now they're at nearly a billion monetize. The next big tech CEO to realize this Mark realized that he had reached market he decided to start digging for new gold. changed the entire company's name to Meta, and tried to take on Twitter. But so far, none that brings us into Sundar Pichai, arguably the his solution seems to be the most lack luster. cloud and packing in as many ads as they can. and take this so far which brings us into the growth and tremendous returns in their pursuit they've actually done it and they're facing the simply maintaining their sky high valuations company has chosen a different path to overcome market saturation. Will their efforts actually pan it ain't gonna be easy. Someone else money burning startups who are struggling to get