- It happens to me all the time and it happened just this week. A young person I'd never and said that when he saw our guest today, on an earlier episode of this program, he felt he was seeing a Dr. Thomas Sowell on (classical music) Welcome to Uncommon Knowledge. I'm Peter Robinson. Thomas Sowell has studied intellectual history, and that include Cornell, Now a senior fellow at Dr. Sowell has published including the classic Coming soon, a revised edition Discrimination and Disparities. Tom Sowell, welcome. - Thank you. - You grew up in Harlem, to join the Marine Corps received an undergraduate a masters from Columbia, and your doctorate from All of which pales by that you once tried out (laughing) But during this period from Harlem to the University of Chicago, throughout your 20s you've said, you spent most of the decade - Yes. - Why? What was it... what was the attraction? - Well I guess I first was... very puzzled. See there's one little At age 16 I was a dropout, and I went to work full time - Delivering telegrams. - Delivering telegrams. - We better say that because that won't know what Western - Yeah that's true too. And so I were I worked called Chelsea district, which is around 23rd Street, ninth Avenue, and at the end of the day I had several ways of getting back home. The easiest and fastest which was a nickel in those days. When I was feeling flushed I and then when I was I would take the fifth Avenue bus, which was the elite of So I would walk over the fifth avenue, take that bus, and it would take me up through all the glamorous past the Empire State Building, past the great stores And then on 57th Street it would turn and this is just a the elite part of town. - Sure, right there what park starts. - Yes and then... park starts at 59th. - Oh, sorry. - 57th that would turn over, again, the same kind of Columbus Circle, there was and on up to about 72nd Street and out to Riverside Drive So four miles after that wonderful luxury apartment And finally around 129th, 30th street, it would go on a long viaduct and then he would do a right turn back into the occupied area and there you'd see the tenements. And I would wonder why is this? I mean, why this huge disparity? And there was nobody else, there was no other other There was nothing there I stumbled across, I had not read Marx, but I bought a secondhand Small set for some ridiculously low price and there they met I looked up Karl Marx, I'd heard the name and seemed to make sense. And later on I would get And the argument was that by taking from the poor. And well that was one explanation, there was no other And that's true largely in our - But so by the time you well so wait, you drop and you start reading - I start reading Marx, yes, at age 19. - Age 19 and then you're for a couple years, what - Two years. It was actually one year, but who's counting. (laughing) - So by the time you went to Harvard you had already become - Yes. - And remained, and Harvard and the study of economics at Harvard didn't talk you out of it, nor did getting a master's at Columbia, nor did getting a doctorate at Chicago dissuade you from Marxism. And you studied with Milton how could you have sat in and remained a Marxist? - Some people are just stubborn. (laughs) But what really changed me was not the University of Chicago, it was my first job working for the government. I was a summer intern. - This is after Chicago or? - No, no, while I was - Got it. - And so during the summer vacation I worked in the US Department of Labor and I began to realize, that the government is not of the general will The government is an institution, the government institutions have their own institutional interests. One involved in minimum wage law. I was a big supporter of that, but I also knew that there was laws simply price low and my first assignment in Puerto Rico and as I I would see as they would number of jobs would go down and so forth, but there were two explanations. One was that of the economists that you priced the people out of a job and the other was that were hurricanes that come through Puerto Rico, you see, during the sugar harvesting and therefore, and I was studying the sugar industry, and therefore it destroyed therefore you wouldn't Now in Chicago I'd been taught that if there are two different theories, there should be some empirical that could distinguish what from what would happen under the other. And so I wrestled with that and one morning I came We need a data on the amount of sugarcane standing in the fields and as I waited for the congratulations I could see stricken looks like this guy has stumbled on something that will ruin us all. (laughing) And they said well, we I said, oh, I'll bet the He said, well, but that You'd have to have a request to the Secretary of Labor. He would then confer it with It would come down the chain of command and the Department of Agriculture, whoever has those numbers and so on. I said, good, well they say begins with a single step so I will now submit my request which I did. And I am still patiently (laughs) - And the institutional - Oh, the US Department of Labor administers the minimum wage law and the money and the or some other significant percentage of the Labor Department's other sources come from administering One of the real forces of all this is that the law itself, requires a Labor Department to of minimum wages and those In fact some years after I left, I did an article saying why and when I came back later on to the Labor Department one of the older librarians turn to the younger this is the man who wrote that article that has everybody up in arms. (laughs) - So you began to be dissuaded of Marxism. - And of government in general because the government is not out there at the personification They have their own interests and the Labor Department's was clearly an interest in keeping the minimum wage, because that's their jobs - In your, which brings us if I may, to one of my favorite this is a beat-up old copy. This book A Conflict of Visions. - Yes. - Which you published in 2007 - 1987. - I beg your pardon, 1987? - Reprinted in 2007. - Well beat up is this book, Sorry, 1987. And you lay out two competing and policy, really two competing that go back at least 200 years. The constrained vision and The constrained vision, I'm quoting from A Conflict of Visions sees the evils of the world and unhappy choices available and intellectual Close quote. So the constrained vision by the limitations of reality itself. - Yes. - That's correct? - Yes. In other words, they cannot that good things happen automatically, but bad things are somebody's fault. - Got it, got it, and the constrained vision, again quoting from A Conflict Of Visions, for the amelioration improvement the constrained vision relies on certain social processes the marketplace, or families. Not government. So explain that. Why do we rely on on processes rather than the will of the people instituting changes to improve our condition? - Well it doesn't ignore government. Even for the market the work as Europe discovered when and the economy has collapsed also. But I guess one of the reasons would be with the government you have and they cannot possibly know as much as the individuals have been preempted. - I see, I see, all right. Which brings us to the When again, I'm quoting you, when Rousseau said that man is born free but everywhere in chains, he expressed the essence of in which the fundamental or man but institutions. Would you explain that one? - Well he has the notion that, again, that good things happen naturally and if they're bad things it's because institutions including civilization itself have have made these bad things happen. And I think that that's behind a lot of things that And why in my most recent to show that in nature there is nothing resembling equal opportunity. That wherever you look around the country, around the world, you find people who live up in the mountains even in the richest countries. Including the United States. I believe the poorest county rather, was in which was almost 100% white. - Somewhere in Appalachia, - Yes and men in that 10 years less than men - And the unconstrained Surely we can pass a law and the constrained vision if people who live in are poor and backwards and we see this pattern over maybe there's something very about that that's hard for us to get at. Correct? - Yes. - All right. So in the book of A Conflict of Visions, you're very dispassionate and you lay out the unconstrained vision and you lay out the constrained vision and you don't really come out blazing in favor of one or the other. - That is not a book meant to commit to show one vision is better than the other. It's there to show you what what they are and what you're assuming if you It's to encourage people to understand the implicit assumptions behind all this without which you're just loose ends. - All right. So pondering all this I noticed something, a column that you wrote, in which you rebutted Nicholas and Kristof had ascribed the gaps between African-Americans gaps in wealth, gaps in the usual gaps and this is to the lingering effects - Oh yeah. - And here's Tom Sowell, quote, if we wanted to be serious about evidence, we might compare where after the end of slavery after 30 years of the In other words, we could on the legacy of slavery on the legacy of liberals. Close quote. And so there it is, life is hard. You use the word hard, you use evidence. Tom Sowell is a man of through and through and through, correct? - Yes. - No, no... - Yes. Part of a vanishing breed I might add. - So when you were a because the Marxism... - Well but no, no. - So that's complicated. - Even when I was a Marxist, I had the same intellectual standards and that's what eventually - Oh, I see. - In other words I hadn't I hadn't gone around the world-- - Looking for evidence. - Yes, yes. - Okay so... - And so socialism is a great idea. That does not mean it's a great reality. One of the things that disturbs this enthusiasm for Bernie at a time when people are an oil-rich country. And you know they're to try to get food and they're fleeing to neighboring countries, most of which are not all but at least you don't And none of that makes I don't think most of these cheering for Bernie Sanders have given a thought to Venezuela. - To the evidence. - That's right. - Which brings us to in a number of columns The experience of Economic progress, I'm quoting you. Despite the grand myth that began or accelerated Civil Rights laws and the of the 1960's, the fact among blacks fell from 87% but over the next 20 years fell another 18% points. This was just the continuation but at a slower rate of progress. It was not some grand deliverance. Close quote. That is so counter to what what appears on the editorial (laughs) I feel as though I want to ask you, you really want to stick - I have more evidence Discrimination and Disparities, I point out that this really is a pattern not peculiar to blacks or but you can see the same thing in England. You can see it in any that the poor we're much Let's say on the first and yet the in terms of their own behavior they were far more decent societies. And afterwards, after this welfare state, they're supposed to make them better off, and better human beings. That's when the crime rates skyrocketed on both sides of the Atlantic. The British were famous for being perhaps the most polite, prior to that. After that, you get things Went through London Manchester where they anticipated by a few years. And the same things, the the throwing of gasoline bombs at police, the whole schmear and none of those people were descendants of slaves. - So poor people were doing things, the lesson of the 20th poor people, including in this we're improving their lot and leading fundamentally decent lives until the government decided to help them? - Yes. - That's a fair statement. - They're better off economically because of what's been given, but of course when you I mean I got I got the first when I was a at some school and I looked out the window that when I was a little kid I used to walk my dog in that park and looks of horror came Nobody in his right going to that park walking a dog or not. The principal was warning these students not to cross this park, which is about a block a half wide. Even in groups of six. And when I tell them about I would sleep out on the they looked at me like People were are doing They were doing it in wherever I've known people. That was a common thing. We didn't have the money You slept out and on a fire Where Walter grew up in a-- - Walter Williams. - Walter Williams grew in Philadelphia. He was saying on the hot summer in this project we had little balconies, they'd sleep out on the balconies and the ones on the first would sleep out in the yard. And that there were old on a hot summer night sitting outdoors into the wee hours playing it was a different world. - It was a safe world. - Infinitely safer. - Now what about family structure? Tom again, I'm quoting you. Most black children were being raised in two-parent families in 1960. 30 years after the liberal welfare state, the great majority of black children were being raised by single parents. What's the, how does that, by the way we should note publishes the Moynihan report in 1965 and he's alarmed because among black families is 25% then. Now among whites it's over a third, Hispanics it's over half it's over 70%. What's going on there? - Well this is again, this too, you find the same thing in Britain, you find it in France and Norway, you find it in the Western world. In fact-- - Their dissolution of - Oh yeah, there are a where 40% of the children are At the extremes, I At the extremes Iceland, it's are born are raised in single-parent home. In South Korea is one out of 66. - Wow. Wow and so that's the welfare state? - [Tom] Yes. - It is. - You're creating a situation where the... first of all, well you're where if the man stays there, the government will not and if he leaves he it will. And so they're paying, when you pay people not to get married, more people don't get married. - Right, right. Okay so what would have happened if Lyndon Johnson instead had remained a crusty tough which is certainly the If Lyndon Johnson had embraced instead of instituting the war on poverty and the Great Society and so forth, what would the country look like today? - A lot better. You would not have the same because you see, you in a democratic country unless you first have and when you buy all the then you're buying a lot of trouble. One of the episodes I think epitomized, it was in France in this case, that there were knife from North Africa against Chinese people in some suburb of Paris. And one of the things you know, why are you And it wasn't because anything He said they have nice that's not fair. I mean that's you know, egalitarianism as a but the actual consequences of it mean things like resenting - All right so one response to the gap, again I return to this gap and other Americans. Affirmative action. Which brings us back to According-- - I'll never live it down. - You'll never live it down, yes. You once told me that of a Harvard degree was never again having to be impressed by (laughing) - Absolutely. - These are figures that were published in the Harvard Crimson, In the Harvard class of 2019, these are the kids will the average SAT score for By the way these are all good scores, but for black students Asian students 2300. Well now that must be reasonable because it's taking place at - Well that wasn't when I was there. - Affirmative action. Is that... we ought not to be doing this? - There are various laws and policies that benefit in one group ut I think affirmative of being one that it harms everybody though in different ways. And so there's a lot of evidence who have all the qualifications who nevertheless are failures because they are systematically whose standards they don't meet. Even though they may or 90% of the colleges in America. I remember I was first aware of this when I was teaching at Cornell and I found a half the were on some kind of academic probation. And so I went over to the to look up the SATs of these students. The average black student scored at the 75th percentile. - Which is pretty darn good. - Yes and so that means in this country they would have no trouble and many of them would But at Cornell, the average at that time was in the 99th percentile and when you're teaching you teach at a pace that cannot keep up with. It was always complained all kinds of reading but heck, I'm teaching kids who are in the top 1%, they can keep up with the - So Cornell was taking and spending four years teaching - Yes and succeeding at that. - A couple quotations. These are both from the to reach the Supreme Court, last big affirmative action 2003 Grutter versus Bollinger. Here's the majority opinion, which was written by quote: &quot;The court expects the use of racial preferences This upholding the use of upholding the use of racial preferences. Now, that's quotation one. Here's quotation two, Justice Thomas. Justice Clarence Thomas in a dissent. Quote: &quot;I believe that blacks can achieve &quot;in every avenue of American life &quot;without the meddling of &quot;The Court holds that &quot;and admissions should be &quot;While I agree that in &quot;will be illegal, they are illegal now.&quot; (laughing) Close quote. So here's... what do you do with the argument that Justice O'Connor writing there's something of the Look we have these, all are using these racial preferences as the basis of admission. The best we can hope to do is tell them they ought not to be doing it. That they should be and give them a clock. (laughing) Is that a reasonable thing to do? - No, but it's a universal thing to do. I wrote a book about affirmative action, it was called Affirmative and I made a couple of international trips at the expensive of Hoover Institution around the world to check This is one of the most common arguments. It is absolutely fallacious The argument like so much it assumes that we have a cannot have, and never have had. In England there was a man named Scarm and it was saying for the And in many countries with an actual cutoff date, so it was set up in I think of around 1990 and in Pakistan it was supposed to go for 10 years. None of those cut off These programs not only They spread. So the idea that you because of these wonderful sounding words. I can't think of a country in the world where that's ever happened. In the case of Pakistan, they did have an actual cutoff date and because people in for whatever historical reason, way behind the people in West Pakistan, and so there's these preferences Now before time for this thing to expire. The East Pakistanis succeed from Pakistan and form of a new nation to Bangladesh. And the preferences continued right on because there were other and so once you get the constituency, you can't say no to them. It is an argument that anywhere that I've been able to check. - All right. So Tom Sowell says no no to affirmative action. What is to be done? And now you were kind the galleys of your forthcoming edition of Discrimination and Disparities. Let me give you a few quotations from some of the new chapter in that book. Quote, &quot;The poverty rate &quot;has been less than 10% &quot;As far back as 1969, young black males &quot;whose homes included &quot;and library cards had similar incomes &quot;to those of their white counterparts. &quot;Academic outcomes show &quot;similar to the pattern of disparities &quot;in the amount of time &quot;Apparently lifestyle Close quote. So this is the constrained Welfare state that's government, Affirmative action, government, We rely on hard work. We rely on the institution of marriage. That's correct? - Yes, in other words these things and I don't think it's the library cards as such. It's that there are lifestyle and the comparison I made was between, if you look at the it was a 22% and among whites was 11%, but among black married So not only do better they do better than whites as a whole, and so it's lifestyle choices. Similarly with the more successful charter schools that you have these kids not only meeting but exceeding the national standards in places like Harlem And these are not kids who They're kids chosen by lottery. They don't even test them for ability. They don't even look at They take it into the schools and they and they have hard work and they make it clear at the outset and they don't tolerate a and these kids are doing incredibly. - So Tom, here... Again, I think back to the Moynihan, well no I think the and he was very alarmed of 25% among African-Americans. By the way in fairness we should point out, one was his own father had when he was 10 years old. He experienced what it to have one parent. Okay and now it's all for whites and Hispanics And then I think back beyond that to your experience of Harlem. You drop out of high school and do what? Go on welfare? Start cashing, no. You went to work and you to buy some inexpensive Encyclopedias. And Harlem was so... but I feel this counsel, it's in that world just seems - No question. - So your argument is if we can stand up to the welfare state, we can a family family structure - That that's gonna be which is very tough to I was so lucky at the time I I left home in 1948, many decades later I learned among black teenagers in 1948 Among whites the same age it was 10.2%. So both blacks and white of the unemployment that they have today. - You were expected to work, you were expected to be able to get a job. - And more importantly the And this is because of a fluke really. The minimum wage law in the United States, Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 was passed with specified rates of pay that you're supposed to get. Almost immediately inflation so by 1948 those numbers were - Oh I see. - In other words when I started out as a Western Union messenger, the minimum wage was 40 cents an hour. I started out at the So it was the same as if and this is what happened, you had this, and I was so lucky, I of course, had no clue about any of this. Now a black kid 20 years People have become compassionate. They've raised the minimum wage. So he can't get a job. And I don't think it does to have a whole lot of teenage males hanging around on the streets - Right. Tom so... another thought here. You're describing a world, But you made visits when you were young, you knew the south as well, didn't you? You went back to the from time to time? I said back to the south you were born in the south. - Yeah, I went to New York. Yeah, well I think this was which happened to locate the and had Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. - So what I'm getting at is that saw Jim Crow with your own eyes. - Oh, no question, no question. - Okay. So well here's, let me This is from a article in the Atlantic a couple years ago called The Case For Reparations Quote, &quot;White supremacy &quot;to America that it is &quot;the country without it. &quot;Reparations is the price we must pay &quot;to see ourselves squarely.&quot; Close quote. And Tom Sowell who actually and experienced it responds how? - It would be nice to know just to be old-fashioned about it. No, it was a rotten system, but I don't know how we get I mean what we see in the United States in terms of the bad things, If you were to give whose ancestors had been slaves, I suspect that you would to more than a half the entire Slavery was not confined I suspect that most of the or slave owners around the world were neither white nor black. I mean this was this was a universal curse of the human species. - Africa, the Middle East, Asia, slavery took place everywhere. - And continued elsewhere in the Western countries. - Let me try is sticking Shelby Steele talks about white guilt. And in Ta-Nahesi Coates you get almost the counterpart of that, a kind of African-American and this seems... beginning with the abolitionist, even beginning before the Civil War, you seem every generation that racism and slavery correctly of course, the and it's something we still live with, how do we expiate it? How do we get past it? Is there something we can do to relieve ourselves of this legacy? - Oh, I'd like you to repeat If you were a slave owner, I don't see any reason why On the other hand, I A apologizing for what B did. Even when their contemporaries much less when one is dead and the others alive. I mean Scalia I remember that I owe no man anything because people who look like me did something to people - Okay, so just get past it. Get to work. - Yeah. - All right. Tom Sowell's view is get an education, stay married, and do your job. Roughly. - Yeah. - All right. - Charles Murray. You used to write a column every so often called Random Thoughts So I'm giving you little snippets in our final questions. Charles Murray in his and Charles Murray writes and government about the between African-Americans and whites. Quote. 1984, quote, &quot;White's &quot;it was up to White's to fix it, &quot;and there was very little in the dialogue &quot;that treated blacks Close quote. Has that changed? - No, it has not. - All right. On we go. (laughing) Your friend, your longtime now we come to current politics. &quot;The bottom line is that &quot;does not have the personal character &quot;that we would want our &quot;but save his misguided &quot;has turned out to be a good president.&quot; Tom? - I think his policies have by that were far better than that of previous Democratic or I go by the consequences. - Okay. - I mean he hasn't produced but the fact is that unemployment black, Hispanic included, is at a level that is far lower than The economy is booming in a People like Paul Krugman was the economy is gonna tank. No, the economy to hit new highs. But there there are so many people among the intelligentsia especially who are absolutely immune to facts. It's as if they took their and the facts will just not affect them. - So this brings us back. I can understand, I mean I really can, my understanding is limited which is why I'm going to put this in I can understand the never Trumpers who don't bother me with economic boom because this man is on every single night and I can't stand him. I can understand, I can see that impulse. I can understand what they feel. - This second consecutive that I automatically turn off - All right. Keep the remote right to next you. - Oh yeah. - Okay, who was the first? - Obama. - Got it. You're totally bipartisan in that regard. - Oh, always. No other way. But the great, the larger point that the Great Society, the war on poverty, this is now six decades of experience and we have, as you have we've got dissolution rising crime rates. That I don't understand. How can it be that the people... now I don't know how to remain bipartisan, but Democrats, liberals, the progressives, just are not... the evidence is in. This has not worked. Like after more than half a century there's still a refusal - Yes and has even a tendency - And how come? - I think people become and that really walks the way they see... human beings have any enormous - All right. Again, notes on the Passing Scene. An article from the New York Times just a couple of days ago, quote, now this is the longest quotation, but it's important to Over the last decade the gained significant foothold in New York, the movement hoped to If charter schools could like New York that could make it anywhere. Over a 100,000 students in are doing well on state tests and tens of thousands are waiting lists. But the election, the suggested that the golden era The insurgent Democrats, Democrats did well across New York but especially in the state Senate, have repeatedly expressed Close quote. And Thomas Sowell responds - That really is one of the moral outrages that for many kids who were and who parents may not a decent education is the to have a better life. And these schools have been - The charter schools. - The charter schools. The successful ones, now But for example a few New York statewide math test, there was an elementary in Harlem whose students at a higher rate than anywhere in the state of New York. I mean we're talking places like that. The Success Academy schools as a whole, their students pass both the math and the English statewide tests at a higher rate than any school system, School District in the The vast majority of the kids are either black or Hispanic. If you look at the five school districts in the state in terms of the percentage of or the English tests, ranges from four times that of the kids in the success Academy Schools to more than nine times the in the Success Academy schools. And yet the mayor of New to put a stop to the expansion but his special ire is aimed And this is happening - Because they make the that run the public schools? What's the political motivation? Why would Mayor De Blasio have it out for the charter schools - Well the teachers union and we're talking about the number of votes they contribute, and the schools and not just in New York but including California, is that they have all kind of chicanery to prevent this charter That's why you have tens of It's not that the charter but every conceivable because if you let that it would be very hard for the And one of the things the same kinds of restrictions that made this public school so bad. For example of restrictions kids who are running amok in this and ruining the education and the charter schools The things that are tolerated in the public schools are unbelievable. - So when I asked you a moment ago how do we bring back the in which you grew up, the answer is that's a hard thing to do but we do know how to do one thing. We do know how to establish schools where the kids in present-day have a chance of getting a good education. - Yeah, you don't have even if you could, because We have this happening. - And so we know how to do that and the Democratic wants to shut it down. - Yes. - And the Republican - Stands mute. You know I love talking to you (laughing) It's all discouraging. Tom you mentioned a moment flocked to Bernie Sanders, The proportion of Americans aged 18 to 29 that holds a favorable The proportion that holds a Now I would like you to of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez calling herself a Democratic Socialist, has just been elected to from New York and although in the new Congress, and one of her first acts was in the offices of House That is to say the So here's a brief video. - I just want to let you of each and every single one of you for putting yourselves and your bodies and everything on the line to make sure that you save our planet, our generation, and our future. It's so incredibly important. We have to get to 100% renewable energy. There is no other option. - Tom? (laughing) To her supporters, to us to young Americans, what would you say? - I would say get some facts first, know what you're talking about before you start spouting One of the things I do in a there's a certain opinion about where the taxes were cut, the highest tax rate was and the argument was oh, and I have suggested that students and that the secretary in support of us trickle-down And I suggested to the students, would be a wonderful project to go read what the secretary of the - Andrew Mellon in the - And then go on the Internet and get the Internal Revenue official data on who paid how much taxes in the 1920s and it turns out if you Andrew Mellon said the exact opposite of what is attributed to him in textbooks that have been sold through successive editions. And what you'll find is that when the tax rate was a 73%, over a hundred thousand dollars a year, and that's maybe a couple paid 30% of the taxes and after the so-called they pay 65% of all the taxes. And the people with incomes under $5,000, which is also was a nice we're paying 15% when but before the tax cut they paid just under a and so there's all kinds of indignation in these scholarly books, we're not talking about How this is a bonanza and people would ordinary income paid practically nothing in and the share of millionaires and and it was 19% afterwards. But the facts simply do not matter. They say these words, and it's like saying abracadabra and all the miraculous - Tom Sowell author of of Discrimination and Disparities. Would you close by from your 1987 book, one of my favorites, A Conflict of Visions. - Logic of course is not Empirical evidence is crucial and yet social visions have to evade, suppress, or explain Historic invasions of evidence Dedication to a cause sacrifices of personal interests but not sacrifices of mind or conscience. - Dr. Thomas Sowell thank you. - Thank you. - For Uncommon Knowledge and Fox Nation, I'm Peter Robinson. (classic music)