- I know the whole world is falling in love with Fred. - He's a tricky one to introduce cause he's that talented and that charming and that lovely. - He's telling us our control. - I think Fred Again is incredible. - Easily one of the most talented musicians on the planet. I am Fred again. - My guy, what's he gonna say? - We gonna make it through. - You know what I wanna come through? I want you to see me, Fred, I'm here. These guys are giving me life. - I became. - We gonna make it through. - Really obsessed with trying to take very fleeting moments. - We gonna make it through. - And like trying to like expose as much. - We gonna make it through. - Beauty as is in them. - You know what I wanna come through? - We gonna make it through. - I was a classical person when I was younger for sure. Like that was my upbringing. - Started playing the piano when I was six or something and the drums when I was eight and the guitar when I was nine. And then when I was fourteen, I started being able to use logic. - When I was about 16, I went to like a classical music college at Trinity. - The one thing I really loved and took most from classical music college was the discipline of like virtuosic players. - You just walk along every hot corridor and everyone will be practicing for 10 hours a day until their fingers couldn't play the scale anymore. That was always my mindset of discipline and hours. - Of good, smart, diligent practice on the right things and a well structured day. - It's ridiculous but I like I had written this thing, I called it an electronic symphony. - I said to my piano teacher, I was like, what defines a symphony? Basically it's actually really loose. Like the definition of a symphony is just a series of like timbres. Like you couldn't write a symphony for piano, but you could write a symphony for small orchestra and you could write a symphony for even like organ technically because there's lots of different timbres. So I was like, hell yeah, I'm gonna get me a symphony. All I have to do is just turn up and put lots of different noises. So I just got really enamored by the idea of like, I can get me one of them, I can't believe it. So I just went in on it and made this, I did two of them. - When did you graduate? - I didn't graduate, no, I left after a year and a half. - I just lost my fascination with it. And then I was working with Brian and I dropped out to make a record with him. - I was filming it because I was like, every time I see Brian, he just comes sprinting. - A friend of ours, Mel, who we love, knew Brian as she was his neighbour and she showed him the symphony, the second one I'd done. And so he invited me to come along to this singing group he does every Tuesday. Then I'd just hang after the sessions with Brian and I'd start to help him with his music and he'd start to help me with my projects. And I got very, very fortunate. I mean, I hustled hard. Like if he told me to make a song out of this, I'd make like 30 different things to play him by the next day and not sleep. So I was definitely behind the scenes. I was like making sure this did not go to waste. And then I produced an album with him and Karl Hyde. The older I get, the more lucky I realised I am to even be in the same time as him, let alone be like great friends. But yeah, he'd been mentoring me since then. - When I first met him, he was my one point of reference in terms of how big producers are. I've since learned that it's not how any of the others are. In a beautiful way, like he exists in his own lane. He produced, he was in-- Talking Heads, U2 like so many different things. - And he invented ambient music, well, loosely invented ambient music. I have to say, and this is not modesty or false flattery or anything like that. I think of Fred as my mentor as well. I didn't really understand a lot of what he was doing. It took me quite a while to think, oh my gosh, this is really a new idea about how you can make music. It's a two-way relationship, you know? I mean, I'm very flattered to be called a mentor of someone whose work I like a lot, but actually it worked both ways around. But then on the side, I started writing a lot of songs with friends of mine and like, you know, finding ways to get them off to A&amp;Rs and labels and stuff. Basically my brother and I, my brother who manages me, we just went absolutely in and just did like sessions with everyone we could possibly find to do a session with and went crazy for like four years or so and just tried to climb the ladder of like pop and hip-hop music. I mean, shout out to my brother as well because he's got an incredible ear. So he would often find artists who would then since blow up, but he would find them on their first video and get them along for a session. So like everyone from Steph Landon, Joes from &quot;O Wonder&quot;, Storms to a degree, like it was early days when we first worked with Storms then. That same year in 2017, when you have your first real hits, George Esra one. And the clean band I one. The next year, &quot;I Don't Care&quot; ends up being a big song everywhere and you have Ed Sheeran featuring Justin Bieber and you have, you know, a ton of songs on the number six collaborations project for Ed. I remember the first time Ed mentioned you to me. It was like he had discovered some kind of symbol of chemistry that no one had ever discovered before. And you were obviously making music before that, but from his point of view, he was like, &quot;I've found my guy.&quot; Oh, that's very sweet. This guy just gets me and does work at the highest level and was so effusive and so, you know, he just was talking and talking. What I love about Fred saying this earlier is like, we wrote &quot;I Don't Care&quot; together. We wrote &quot;Beautiful People&quot; together. We wrote &quot;Bad Habits&quot; together. And he... I feel like no one knows the joy that he gets in making pop. He's a pop guy. There was a very effortless synergy. We just would write three songs a day every day. One would be bad, one would be quite good, and one would be weird. And maybe sometimes two would be good. But usually it would just... You'd get to the end of the day and be like, &quot;Great. Let's do it again.&quot; You know, I think we knew you from working with people and helping them achieve their goals and producing and writing music beautifully and so tastefully. And, you know, you were winning awards and revered at that point. Did you have to make a distinction between the two for you? Did you have to say, &quot;This is now going to be my Fred Again time and I'm not Fred Gibson in the studio working with Ed entirely and on its own?&quot; You know, when I was like six, well, from sort of 10 when I started writing songs to 20 or whatever, I was doing my own music. And then through no intention, I just kind of ended up working with other... Like, it just kind of is what naturally took place. And so then... But there was a slight feeling of, like, after a few years, there was a feeling that there was something, like, I needed to make that I wasn't making. And funny enough, Brian, who keeps getting, you know, the honourable, mentioned Brian, he emailed me about that time saying, &quot;OK, Fred, enough. Let's get back to doing some of your stuff.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Safe. You're in sync.&quot; I would just take my laptop places and set up, and then when I'd run out of charge, I'd go work in a cafe and charge it up again and then go out again. The fact that you can just sit on the river and make a whole thing like that is, to me, just like the novelty of that will never wear off. The fact that you don't need anything other than just two hours of charge. But for what I was trying to make, I definitely wanted it to feel earthy and, like, it was all built from the world. So making it in the world made more sense to me, if you know what I mean. One thing I know is that when I'm there, I make loads of ideas. And when I'm in the vacuum of my own thing, I tend not to. So it's affecting me hugely. Sometimes it really is, like, really on the nose. You'll be making something and then you'll see some guy go past on a skateboard doing a move, and the way he moves, he makes you think, &quot;Oh, yeah, the base is actually not... isn't giving the feeling that it needs to do this.&quot; And then sometimes it's much more abstractified and you'll see a dad with his kid having a time and that will just make you realise that... There's an emotional resonance in this, and we can find it. I think often it's subconscious. When I was in the beginning of making the first record, I had that feeling of not having suffered enough to warrant the things that I was wanting to write about. You know what I mean? That, like, imposter syndrome of, like, &quot;I can't be the one to write about this.&quot; And then I did suffer and I learned that I didn't need to. That I was just as entitled to write about what I want to write about four years ago as I am. Now that it is one of the... sort of by-product blessings of an experience like that is that it sort of brings you closer to the other... to your... humans in the world. How has your career felt post Boiler Room? This man is extraordinarily talented across the board. Sold out US tour, sold out European tour. Coachella smashed it. What? Yeah. Introducing Fred again for Boiler Room! First time in a long time, no disrespect to anyone else, but where a DJ set had become the talking point in the areas outside of the community. It was the first time in a long time where the concept of creating a set in a club and streaming it wasn't just being talked about on those forums or on those social media sites or in those places. People who write about music in general were like, &quot;This shit is off the f*cking chain.&quot; What was that like in that room? Because, I mean, there's so many clips that go viral. I mean, that Geezer who just, like, pulled up your record by accident. I'm so round-boiled that all of my best friends couldn't even get close anyway. Yeah. Yeah. And you're looking at these people around you, &quot;All right, well, you're my crew for the next thing,&quot; and then it kind of naturally cross-pollinates and permeates into different humans. And it was... Yeah, it was very, very present tense. I was forced right into the present tense. Thank you, guys. For real. Thank you. I mean, there's, like, sort of surreal moments where I'm sort of forced to acknowledge, like, &quot;Well, something's changed.&quot; Like, when we put on the Brixton shows in London in the era, then Kieran, actually, being the sweetie that he is, called me and he was like, &quot;Fred!&quot; And I was like, &quot;Hi.&quot; He was like, &quot;There were 71,000 people in the queue &quot;for your tickets this morning.&quot; What is that? Like... So those, like, things where it's like, &quot;OK, well, that's... Something's changed.&quot; Like, you can't... I can't ignore, like... That wasn't the case once. The point is, the world is ready for it. So when you step on that stage, you're gonna see it because they are ready-ready. That's culture. That's culture. That show for me, you, that's done. That's done. What do you do with it now? You know, I didn't know when I was starting it that it would be the last one of this sort of trilogy. This is where, like, collaboration is such a godsend. So I think I'm gonna try exploring in those realms for a second. Um... Yeah, cos I think that will be the best thing to do. He'll love me telling the story. He and his brother have this dance group called Rain Radio. Right. so that they can eventually get, like, a Vegas residency and chuck cakes into the crowd. Like, they're just like, &quot;Let's make the perfect dance music.&quot;