The year was 1996, and the Walt Disney Company was in a very peculiar place. Walt Disney Studios was riding high, as they were in the middle of the &quot;Disney Renaissance&quot;. A return to form had yielded a plethora of box-office success, while the rest of the company appeared to be in a state of disarray. Jeffrey Katzenberg, the president of Walt Disney Studios, This was because Katzenberg had demanded that Eisner appoint him to president after the death of Frank Wells had left the position vacant. Many prominent Disney shareholders and board members And Eisner, who saw Katzenberg as hungry for power and acclaim, After he left, Katzenberg would form rival animation studio, DreamWorks SKG, and would sue Disney for promised royalties that he had never received. The lawsuit would be settled a year later in 1997, with the report saying that Disney paid Katzenberg almost $270 million. In 1995, Eisner had appointed Michael Ovitz, the founder of For a variety of reasons, this did not work out. Ovitz would walk away with a severance package of nearly $140 million. During all of this, Eisner himself would cash in stock options of nearly $600 million. Money was flying all over the place at the Walt Disney Company, but none of it was going to the company's other major division... Disney Parks had gone on a roller coaster of and Eisner's proclaimed &quot;Disney decade&quot; was not going as planned. Many ambitious and creative projects were scrapped by the mid-90s. Disney's America was announced... and then cancelled. Disneyland's elaborate Tomorrowland renovation, and then cancelled. Disneyland's second gate, Port Disney, Disneyland's other second gate, WestCOT, EPCOT's new World Showcase pavilions and renovated A bunch of Indiana Jones attractions, a bunch of Muppets attractions, and a bunch of ToonTown attractions all were announced Euro Disney. The resort just outside of Paris, France had causing a domino effect throughout the company. Euro Disney was not the sole reason that all of these projects were cancelled. For some, there were many other causes, And more often than not it, was the deciding factor. Whether for financial reasons or personal hesitation, But he still felt pressure to capitalize on Plus, the United States was experiencing allowing families more leisure spending. All signs were pointing Eisner to an expansion of the parks, but Euro Disney, Disney's America, This led him to what seemed to be a brilliant compromise. In 1996, Eisner created a new subsidiary of This division would plan and execute Disney Entertainment With this, the company would be able to profit off of its successful properties in an interactive setting similar to the company's parks in Anaheim and Orlando. However, what Eisner was planning was no Disneyland. He had something much cheaper in mind, and something much more 90s... Music In the early 90's Things were going good Disney was making money as Every company should Little Mermaid Aladdin Beauty and the Beast Hits so BIG They wanted to take them East They tried to expand With Euro Disneyland It fell real hard It did not go as planned They were, out of money They were, out of luck But Eisner had an idea To pick the company back up! Moving to the malls! Growing the brand! Cancel all your plans It's Defunctland Cash in all your stock As quick as you can Close some more rides It's Defunctlaaaaaaaand -[MC Voice] *Defunctland is filmed in front of a live studio audience* -[Kevin] The 1990s, the Wild West of themed entertainment. Apart from the recent developments of the theme park industry, local entertainment was booming throughout the United States. Shopping centers that had existed for decades with niche stores and small attractions taking over. Themed restaurant chains were sprouting up all over the country, with the usual suspects being Rainforest Cafe, The most unexpected of the new developments These were a mix of tubes, slides, ball pits, nets, socks, socks with holes in them, vomit, disinfectant, vomit, disinfectant, those net bridges that your feet would get stuck in, a kind of terrifying helicopter thing where the mean kids the open slides with only like one hill, which was just a waste, I mean, I climbed all the way up there, and rug burns... so many rug burns. McDonald's opened its first indoor play place of this kind in 1987. This allowed parents to dine while their children played, McDonald's would continue to add play places to their restaurants, *Cartoonish noises* &quot;Run and Swing Here?&quot; *Brake sound* &quot;I Don't Think So!&quot; *Bowling pin knocked sound and playing sounds* &quot;Climb and Slide Here?&quot; &quot;I Don't Think So!&quot; &quot;Then Where?&quot; I'm going Dizzy at Discovery Zone Where I can cut loose and be on my own &quot;DZ is made just for me!&quot; &quot;A place where I can really cut loose!&quot; &quot;Its all here!&quot; &quot;Jump and Tumble Here?&quot; &quot;I Don't Think So!&quot; I'm going DZ, where Kids wanna be! -]Kevin] Discovery Zone opened its first location in Kansas City, Missouri in 1989. The facility featured in elaborate play place, a ball pit, a rock wall, Discovery Zone was a popular venue for birthday parties and group day trips. It also advertised itself as a good place The company would quickly expand, by wealthy Chicago businessman Donald Flynn. In less than three years, the chain would expand to 340 locations. McDonald's had noticed the competition, and in 1991, had created their own chain McDonald's would not be able to keep up with Discovery Zone, and would sell all 48 Leaps and Bounds locations to the company in 1994. Around this time, Blockbuster Video, who owned about 20% of Discovery Zone, would up it's stake to 50.1% and would assume control of the company in 1995. In hindsight, this was akin to RadioShack investing in Toys &quot;R&quot; Us. *Boo!* What, too soon? The rapid expansion of Discovery Zone would prove unsustainable, They filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 1996, Over 100 locations closed immediately. This brought a flood of horror stories of children showing up only to be greeted by a note on the door informing them of the closure. Some of the franchised locations remained open, and 13 fun centers, along with the Discovery Zone name and logo, ... a powerful rat ... ... named Charles Entertainment Cheese. Smile, America, say Chuck E. Cheese Smile, America, say Chuck E. Cheese Food and Games and all kinds of creatures More taste of Pizza Time Dinner You can, Smile, America Smile America Smile America, say Chuck E. Cheese Started by Atari founder Nolan Bushnell, Chuck E. Cheese's Bushnell had always had a respect for the and he wanted to create an elaborate entertainment experience of his own. He would combine video games, animatronics, and pizza Bushnell would expand this restaurant into a chain, Unfortunately, this same year, Pizza Time Theatre would the declining interest in arcades, and in some cases, virtually splitting the potential profit of an area. The remaining locations would be quickly bought by rival chain Showbiz Pizza Place, which was started by Chuck E. Cheese franchisee in 1980. Showbiz Pizza did not rebrand any of the Chuck E. Cheese restaurants, with Showbiz Pizza Time incorporated abandoning Showbiz Pizza's animatronic band, Throughout all the financial issues and restructurings, with all of them being renamed to Chuck E. Cheese's Pizza, On top of their arcades, animatronic shows, and pizza, Chuck E. Cheese's began investing more in indoor play places to compete with McDonald's and Discovery Zone, it was around this time that the Walt Disney Company While they might have been late to the game, they expected to fit right in. After all, Discovery Zone had been described as an indoor Disney World, and Chuck E. Cheese's used Disney If Disney utilized the same concept, implementing their attention to detail and intellectual properties, they could dominate the new market. In 1996, Eisner appointed Art Levitt to the Levitt was the perfect person for the job, At 28, he was a salesman at a Los Angeles furniture store. One day, Michael Eisner himself walked in The fact that the CEO of one of the world's largest corporations was a true testament to Eisner's micromanagement. Levitt and Eisner apparently hit it off, and he was quickly named During his first tenure with Disney, he would also become an executive in charge of overseeing including the Disney Village Marketplace Levitt came up with the idea for an ESPN-themed restaurant In 1993, Levitt left Disney to head Rank Leisure USA, a company that operated multiple Hard Rock Cafe locations. Just two years later, he would return to Disney, After becoming the president of Disney Regional Entertainment, he would head the creation of three national chains for the Walt Disney Company. The first was their attempt at a Club Disney is a now little known project of the Walt Disney Company. Disney intended to build the amusement centers The spaces were designed for weekend visits, It would also house family workshops, such as &quot;Poohrobics&quot;, which was described as led by the beloved and befuddled honey bear. The complexes featured play places, and kid friendly computer games in a lab called &quot;The Mousepad&quot;. The e-ticket attraction of Club Disney was, of course, the play place. These varied from location to location, such as The Lion King or Hercules, The play places had varying names, and &quot;The Supercali Toontastic Watch-A-Ma Climb It Time Toaster&quot;. Other attractions were a room themed to Peter Pan a swing themed to Tarzan an activities area called &quot;Herc's Gym&quot;, motion detected musical instruments on the Aristocat music wall, which sounds very similar to an attraction an area for children under three called &quot;The Pooh and You Corner&quot;, a storybook time, and a variety of arcade games. At some locations, there was a little Mermaid themed area, where kids could &quot;peek through the portholes of a sunken pirate ship and find a treasure, or chat with a friend on a shellular telephone.&quot; There would also be periodic dance parties these included &quot;The Lion King Limbo&quot;, some locations had a room called &quot;The Applaudeville Theater&quot;, where guests could dress as Disney characters There were also education activities... called &quot;Ed-Ventures&quot; and monthly activities, such as science demonstrations themed to Flubber. As with Chuck E. Cheese and Discovery Zone, with children getting to pick from a few options, such as &quot;Disney Princess Tea&quot;, &quot;Toy Story Search Party, Some locations has a magician performing tricks as Merlin, A child could only enter Club Disney with an adult, so no child could leave with a different adult than the one they came in with. This was to ease the minds of parents, to allow the kids to roam free within the complex, and to ensure that no parents treated Club Disney as a daycare center. The clubs also served Mickey Mouse shaped pizza, which would be about $12 and $6 There was also a large gift store called &quot;The Clubhouse Shop&quot;. One mother reacted to Club Disney's announcement by proclaiming... &quot;Disney has invaded our lives. But I think the children enjoy all of it.&quot; The opening day of the first location, began with a ceremony featuring Michael Eisner, Mickey Mouse and Goofy. The head of attendance calculating that the Walt Disney Company and surprise, he was a little off. When Club Disney opened its doors on February 21, 1997... only 1000 visitors showed. Proving that no one had learned anything One Sheriff was quoted saying, &quot;We were expecting a lot more people. Maybe because Disney advertised that Of the opening day crowd. Ten, or so, were protesters accusing Disney of paying Haitian workers C/28 an hour to make Pocahontas themed pyjamas. The demonstrators were probably also disappointed Still, parents and children seemed to love the new complex, Another in California, two in Arizona, and one in Colorado. Disney representatives had been enthusiastic of the chain's success, claiming that they were going to open another While reviews were positive, Club Disney was not without its critics. One of the higher end malls that Club Disney had moved into accused Disney of ignoring the complex's theming standards by implementing their cheesy design. Also, parents complained about the price of admission, especially the necessity for a separate adult ticket, as they were not participating in the club's activities and were required to be there. Club Disney also proved that Disney was best off not teaching anything, ever, as the &quot;Ed-Ventures&quot; activities were the most highly criticized of the complex. With many accusing them of being a mere tactic In the end, Disney did not follow through with the plans for expansion, but not for these small complaints. The company was impatient with the investment, Disney decided to cancel the expansion and shut down the complexes. Club Disney was not the cash-cow that the company had hoped for, and being the late-90's, Eisner was not in the mood to play the long game. The company was cutting costs across the board and The chain was closed on November 1, 1999, This was around the same time that Discovery Zone ceased its operations leading many to believe that indoor play centers were just a fad of the 90's. As Chuck E. Cheese's would prove, so long as you innovate or evolve. As for Disney Regional Entertainment, Another regional chain Levitt would create was now possible thanks to Disney's 1996 acquisition of ABC. *Upbeat music* &quot;It's your mother.&quot; &quot;Hi!&quot; &quot;Hi. How are you guys holding up without me?&quot; &quot;Oh we're okay, we were just watching a little TV.&quot; &quot;Have the kids driven you nuts yet?&quot; &quot;No, we've been keeping ourselves entertained.&quot; &quot;Jess said she'd help you with the dishes tonight.&quot; &quot;Well the kitchen is spotless and dinner was great.&quot; &quot;Wow, you should reward yourself, take them somewhere fun.&quot; &quot;...that it would have a huge impact on the lead.&quot; *Speaking Spanish* The complexes were part bar, part restaurant, It was such a hit among sports fans that there were apparently points where guests would have to be dragged out for staying in excessive amount of time. The ESPN Zone would also put on a sitting competition that challenged participants to only allowing a bathroom break every eight hours. One year, the winner watched TV for three straight days. ESPN Zone would debut in Baltimore on July 11, 1998, the brand would grow to a total of nine locations, many of which would close in the mid-to-late-2000's mostly due to the recession, and the only remaining location, closed June 2, 2018 to make room for the Disneyland Resort's new hotel. In between Club Disney and ESPN Zone, would be Disney Regional Entertainment's most ambitious project. It was the main reason that the subsidiary had been created, it was the Imagineer's most puzzling concoction, it was... DisneyQuest. *People cheering* Music