- This is a video about in game theory. Problems of this sort pop up in conflict to roommates doing the dishes. Even game shows have been Figuring out the best strategy between life and death, war and peace, flourishing and the And in the mechanics of this game, we may find the very source of one of the most unexpected phenomena (upbeat music) On the 3rd of September, 1949, an American weather monitoring plane collected air samples over Japan. In those samples, they found The Navy quickly collected and tested rainwater and bases all over the world. They also detected small amounts of Cerium-141 and Yttrium-91. But these isotopes have half so they must have been produced recently and the only place they was a nuclear explosion. But the US hadn't performed so the only possible conclusion was that the Soviet Union had figured out how to make a nuclear bomb. This was the news the Their military supremacy achieved through the Manhattan - This makes the problem of Western Europe and the United States far more and perhaps makes the - Some thought their to launch an unprovoked nuclear while they were still ahead. In the words of Navy Secretary Matthews to become &quot;aggressors for peace&quot;. John von Neuman, the said, &quot;If you say why I say, why not bomb them today? If you say today at five o'clock, I say why not at one o'clock?&quot; Something needed to be done But what? In 1950, the RAND Corporation, a US-based think tank was And as part of this research, That same year, two mathematicians a new game, one which closely resembled the US-Soviet conflict. This game is now known as So let's play a game. A banker with a chest full and another player to You each get two choices. You can cooperate or you can defect. If you both cooperate, If one of you cooperates, but the other defects, then the one who defected gets five coins and the other gets nothing. And if you both defect, The goal of the game is simple: to get as many coins as you can. So what would you do? Suppose your opponent cooperates, then you could also or you could defect and So you are better off defecting, but what if your opponent Well, you could cooperate and get no coins or you could defect and So no matter what your opponent does, your best option is always to defect. Now, if your opponent is also rational, they will reach the same conclusion and therefore also defect. As a result, when you both act rationally, you both end up in the getting one coin each when you could have gotten three, instead. In the case of the US and Soviet Union, this led both countries to of tens of thousands of more than enough to destroy But since both countries had And both countries spent around $10 trillion Both would've been better and agreed not to develop But since they both acted they ended up in a situation The prisoner's dilemma is one of the most famous games in game theory. Thousands and thousands of on versions of this game. In part, that's because (bright music) Impalas living in and Savannahs are prone to to infectious diseases, So it's important for and they do this by grooming, but they can't reach all and therefore they need Now, grooming someone It costs saliva, electrolytes, all vital resources where a predator could So for the other impala, to pay this cost, but then again, it too will need help grooming. So all impalas face a choice: should they groom each other or not? In other words, should Well, if they only interact once, then the rational solution That other impala is never But the thing about a lot of problems is that they're not a single Impalas see each other day after day and the same situation keeps So that changes the problem because instead of playing the you're now playing it many, many times. And if I defect now, then that I'd defected and they can use that against me in the future. So what is the best strategy That is what Robert Axelrod, a political scientist wanted to find out. So in 1980 he decided to - He invited some of the for many different subjects that would play each other. - Axelrod called these Each strategy would face off and against a copy of itself and each matchup would go for 200 rounds. That's important and Now, Axelrod used points instead of coins, but the payoffs were the same. The goal of the tournament as possible and in the end, the whole tournament was to ensure the success was Axelrod gave an example It would start each game by after its opponent had In total Axelrod received 14 strategies and he added a 15th called random, which just randomly cooperates or defects 50% of the time. All strategies were loaded where they faced off against each other. One of the strategies was called Friedman. It starts off by cooperating, but if its opponent defects just once, it will keep defecting for Another strategy was called Joss. It also starts by cooperating, but then it just copies what the other player Then around 10% of the time, There was also a rather elaborate strategy called Graaskamp. This strategy works the same as Joss, but instead of defecting Graaskamp defects in the 50th round to try and probe the and see if it can take The most elaborate with 77 lines of code. After all the games were played, and the leaderboard established. - The crazy thing was that the simplest a program that came to - [Derek] Tit for Tat and then it copies exactly what its opponent did in the last move. So it would follow and defection with defection, but only once if it's opponent So does Tit for Tat. When Tit for Tat played against Friedman, both started by cooperating both ending up with perfect When Tit for Tat played against Joss, they too started by cooperating but then on the sixth move, Joss defected. This sparked a series of a sort of echo effect. - Okay, so now you've got which will remind you of the world today where we because of what you did to us. And then when this weird program throws in a second unprovoked because now both programs are for the rest of the game. And that's also like some of the things that we're seeing in politics today and in international relations. - As a result of these both Tit for Tat and Joss did poorly. But because Tit for Tat with enough other strategies, it still won the tournament. - As we are being joined... - Hey my God, there's Professor Axelrod. - Hey, there's Steven Strogatz. - Whoa, what a treat this is. - And I imagine initially it'd be sort of like computer chess where you need a pretty to play a sophisticated game. But in fact it was not like that at all. It was the simplest So I analyzed how that happened. - Axelrod found that all the including Tit for Tat, First, they were all nice, which just means they are So Tit for Tat is a nice strategy, it can defect but only in retaliation. The opposite of nice is nasty. That's a strategy that defects first. So Joss is nasty. Outta the 15 strategies in the tournament, eight were nice and seven nasty. The top eight strategies were all nice and even the worst still far outscored the The second important A forgiving strategy is but it doesn't hold a grudge. So Tit for Tat is a forgiving strategy. It retaliates when its opponent defects but it doesn't let affections from before the last round Friedman on the other hand, - After the first defection would defect for the rest of the game. Okay, that's it. No mercy and that might feel good to do but it doesn't end up working - This conclusion that it pays to be nice and forgiving came as Many had tried to be tricky and create subtle nasty and eke out an advantage, but they all failed. Instead, in this tournament, nice guys finished first. Now Tit for Tat is quite forgiving but it's possible to Axelrod's sample strategy only defects after its opponent It was Tit for Two Tats. Now that might sound overly generous, but when Axelrod ran the numbers, he found that if anyone had they would've won the tournament. - I mean it's so clever, there's so many layers to this story. After Axelrod published his analysis of what happened or circulated it among these game theorists, he said, now that we all know what - So he announced a second tournament where everything would be the same except for one change the number See in the first tournament, each game lasted precisely 200 rounds. And that is important because if you know when the last round is, then there's no reason to So you're better off defecting. Of course your opponent and so they should also But if you both anticipate then there's no reason for to last round or the round and so on all the way - And so in Axelrod's tournament, it was a very important thing that the players didn't know exactly how long they were gonna be playing. They knew on average but there was a random number generator that prevented them from - Yeah, if you're not sure when it ends, then you have to kind of keep cooperating 'cause it might keep going on your side. - For this second tournament, and again, added random. The contestants had gotten the results and analysis from the first tournament and could use this information This created two camps. Some thought that clearly being nice and forgiving were winning qualities. So they submitted nice One even submitted Tit for Two Tats. The second camp anticipated and extra forgiving and therefore they to try to take advantage of One such strategy was called Tester. It would defect on the first move to see how its opponent reacted. If it retaliated, tester would apologize and play Tit for Tat for If it didn't retaliate, tester would defect every But again, being nasty didn't pay. - And once again, Tit for - Nice strategies again did much better. In the top 15, only one was not nice. Similarly, in the bottom After the second tournament, Axelrod identified the other qualities that distinguished the The third is being retaliatory, which means if your opponent defects, strike back immediately, Always cooperate is a total pushover. And so it's very easy Tit for Tat, on the other hand, is very hard to take advantage of. The last quality that Axelrod - Programs that were too opaque, that were too similar to a random program, you couldn't figure them out because they were so complicated, tt was very hard to establish with a program like that because you couldn't figure Not you. I mean the other programs it was playing couldn't figure them out and or less defaulting to thinking last time I'm gonna see you. So I might as well defect. What to me is mind blowing about this is that these four principles provokable and clear is that has evolved around the as an eye for an eye. It's not Christianity, by the way. It's not to not turn the it's some older philosophy. - What's interesting is that while Tit for Two Tats would've it only came 24th in This highlights an important fact: in the repeated prisoner's dilemma, there is no single best strategy. The strategy that performs on the other strategies For example, if you put Tit with only the ultimate then Tit for Tat comes in last. - I wanted to see whether, for example, the Tit for Tat did well because it did well that didn't do well with it all themselves that basically it took - So he ran a simulation where successful strategies would see their numbers would see their numbers drop. In this simulation, the worst performing and go extinct, while the become more common. Harrington, the only nasty first grew quickly, but then as the strategies it Harrington's numbers also quickly dropped. This shows a main benefit because it tests how well a strategy does with other successful strategies. After a thousand generations, the proportions are mostly stable and only nice strategies survive. Again, Tit for Tat comes out on top, representing 14.5% of Now this process may sound but there is a subtle difference, which is that in this case So it's actually an ecological simulation. But what if the world you - Imagine a world that is a more or less populated with except there's a little that live in some kind of nucleus and they get to play with each other a lot because they're They will start building and also because that they'll start to take over the population. So in fact, Axelrod showed of cooperation can emerge and spread and eventually will take over the world, which is fantastic. How can cooperation emerge in a population of players who are self-interested? Who are not trying to be good You don't have to be altruistic. You could be looking out and your own interests. And yet cooperation can still emerge. (bright music) - Some argue that this from a world full of where every organism only to one where cooperation From impalas grooming each other to fish cleaning sharks. Many life forms experience to the prisoner's dilemma, but because they don't interact just once, both can be better off by cooperating. And this doesn't require trust because the strategy as long as it performs better it can take over a population. Axelrod's insights were applied to areas like evolutionary biology and international conflicts, but there was one aspect that his original What happens if there is a little bit of random error in the game? Some noise in the system. For example, one player but it comes across as a defection. Little errors like this happen in the real world all the time. Like in 1983, the Soviet satellite-based detected the launch of an from the US but the US The Soviet system had confused high altitude clouds Thankfully, Stanislav Petrov, the Soviet officer on But this example shows the and the importance of on those strategies. - The word game sounds or, you know, there's some something, a misnomer maybe in calling it game theory because this is, these are life and And as you mentioned that I mean it could actually be life and death of the whole planet, the whole we could annihilate So these are not games in it's just the term that is used by mathematicians and theorists. - When Tit for Tat plays against itself in a noisy environment, both start off by cooperating, but if a single cooperation then the other Tit for Tat retaliates and it sets off a chain of And if another cooperation then the rest of the game is Therefore, in the long run, of the points they would get Tit for Tat goes from performing very well to performing poorly. So how do you solve this? Well, you need a reliable way to break out of these echo effects. And one way to do this is but with around 10% more forgiveness. So instead of retaliating you only retaliate around This helps you break out of those echoes while still being retaliatory enough to not be taken advantage of. - And so we also ran the tournament with noise and generosity My favorite example is Tit but it could never do better than the player it's playing with. - I mean, think about it, by design, all they can do is lose or draw. And yet when the results of all they come out ahead of Similarly, always defect It can only draw or win, but overall, it performs extremely poorly. This highlights a common misconception because for many people when they think they need to In games like chess or poker, this is true since one person's gain is necessarily another person's loss, so these games are zero sum. But most of life is not zero sum. To win, you don't need to get your reward from the other player. Instead, you can get it from the banker. Only in real life, the It is literally everything around you. It is just up to us to find and then work together Cooperation pays even among rivals. From 1950 to 1986, the US and Soviet Union and both kept developing nukes. But then from the late '80s onwards, they started reducing They too had learned Rather than making an agreement to abolish all nuclear arms at once and essentially turning it into they would disarm slowly, a and then they'd check each other to see that they had both cooperated and then repeat the year after, and the year after that. All along, checking to In the more than 40 years researchers have continued to study which strategies perform best in a variety of environments. In doing so, they varied to strategies to errors and more. Some even allowed the strategies to mutate while Tit for Tat or generous Tit for Tat doesn't always come out on top, Axelrod's main takeaways still but don't be a pushover. - Can I ask you, why did Anatol Rapoport submit Tit for Tat? - Well, the reason was (both laugh) And he wrote saying, yeah, but I just wanna be that this is really such a good idea. I don't, he was a peace researcher and I think his own inclinations were to be much more forgiving and - What I find fascinating is that sets life apart that life gets to make decisions. We get to make choices. Choices that don't only change our future, but also the future of You see, in the short term, that shapes the player that But in the long run, it is the players that shape the environment. So let's play a game, the game of life, and make your choices wisely because their impact may Using the right strategy matters, but figuring out the It requires critical thinking and innovative solutions If you are looking for an easy way to build your problem solving skills, then check out this Brilliant will help make in everything from math and data science to programming, technology, you name it. You can start right now for free, straight from your device, the device you're watching this on. All you need to do is and Brilliant will design equipping you with all the Did you like today's then Brilliant's brand new course, Intro to Probability is Introduction to to mastering the tools of You'll learn how to construct and analyze models of from electrons and business to the 2023 Women's World Cup. Whether you are a budding statistician or you just wanna learn this course will equip you to make decisions in uncertain situations. You'll even take a page and learn how to build to put your strategies to the test. Beyond probability, Brilliant of content covering everything and programming to technology. What I love about Brilliant is so you'll build real intuition and the best part is that you can learn with brilliant on the go. To try everything Brilliant for a full 30 days visit and the first 200 of you to sign up will get 20% off Brilliant's So I want to thank Brilliant and I want to thank you for watching.