this video is sponsored by CuriosityStream! hey, welcome to 12tone! as a fairly well-known this one: (ADAM: &quot;hey 12tone, what's your say something like my favorite chord progression and emotional intent of the music it's supporting. that's a great answer: it's dry, academic, saying much of anything. but it's not true. my favorite chord progression is this: (bang) this is called the Andalusian Cadence, named that's because it's an incredibly common progression that it's spread all around the world, even California and Smooth Criminal. it's one of those chord progressions that never get sick of it, but why? what makes it so interesting? well, at its heart, the Andalusian Cadence lot of different levels. let's start at the top: in effect, what we're we start on I minor, then go to bVII major, after that, we might expect to see V minor, natural minor scale, but replacing it with barely even registers anymore. the structure clearly indicates that this chords themselves, they're almost entirely we're leaning on the brighter side of a dark we can also see that duality in the way the and then suddenly at the end we turn around that jump from V to I is meant to provide is juxtaposed against the rest of the progression taken all together, it almost feels like we're we hit a ledge. it's not really lifting us back up, it's just but there's an even deeper duality here, and first glance, the Andalusian Cadence looks which, as we've mentioned before, is the idea predefined functions, or jobs to do. in the the V major going back to I minor, which is harmony. these two chords have the two most important called dominant function, which means it points called tonic function, which means it is home. in fact, capturing this functional feel is of V minor, even when we're playing in a minor dominant function relies on the note a half-step its sense of directionality. that note is so good at pointing you back leading tone, but it doesn't exist in the progressions work we have to borrow it from that means the Andalusian Cadence is going other hand, the minor 7th shows up earlier chord, so we're kinda getting both sounds but really, the entire progression is kind but if we look at how it's elaborated, our we can assign chord functions to these middle do much to tell us what they're doing. a better approach would be to use a model are connected not by any sort of complex harmonic it doesn't really matter what roles the bVII work here is just that they're directly below above the chords that come after. again, we're just walking down the scale. putting these two models together gives us a pretty non-functional skin. enjoy that mental image. anyway, moving on from the duality of the interesting is that it's kind of a blank slate. you can do lots of different things with it. the Andalusian Cadence provides a really strong descending bassline it doesn't actually have experiment, and I thought it'd be fun to go the most obvious change we can make is to this doesn't really change much, it just accents to make it even more directional. a more interesting change, though, would be bVI major instead. (bang) this turns it into what's called a word for a dominant 7th chord that resolves this helps set up the V chord, making the it makes the progression feel a bit less non-functional, same Andalusian flavor. another thing we can do is start flipping for instance, we mentioned that the progression rid of the last hold-out and turned the I (bang) it's an interesting sound: it's not apart, especially not descending ones. sometimes we'll see bVI-bVII-I as a sort of the Super Mario games, which has earned it down, and it feels almost... unnerving to triads is lying to me somehow. on the other hand, we could also go the other like, we could stick with the natural minor version: (bang) which also sounds pretty nice. a bit more melancholy, because we don't have at the end, but it's a lovely sound. it also works well with that tritone substitution moving up, we could try replacing the bVI think that works super well, 'cause bVI major to make it minor we have to play a flattened a more effective approach might be to borrow scale (bang) which works a bit better, but that is still kind of distracting from the on the other hand, I'm a huge fan of replacing this puts it next to the I minor, again playing fall down into the light. it also implies that we're in a scale called 2, and it's one favorite scales. it's dark really brings out a cool side of the Andalusian another, more extreme thing we could do is this is another common progression in Latin usually played with what's called an anticipation, a bit of extra rhythmic interest: (bang) dropping an Andalusian Cadence but it lets us lean fits a bit better into a completely functional you don't usually see it with the tritone and even if you you don't actually add the the last variation I want to look at is one started thinking about what the opposite of I think it works pretty well. check it out: (bang) here, the roots are moving qualities are flipped, so we start on I major, minor before falling back down. this is basically just a walk up the major minor scale earlier, except that where we'd minor borrowed from natural minor instead, this movement from IV minor to I is a fairly and a lot of different theoretical models of different names, like the minor plagal dominant, but however you want to describe nice sprinkling of extra flavor to this anti-Andalusian pardon the play on words. there's plenty more you can do with this chord point is just that the Andalusian Cadence everything all the time. or, I guess, you can use whichever chord progression of the music it's supporting, but if you're Cadence. trust me. it's great. and speaking of great things that you should CuriosityStream! CuriosityStream is a streaming service with to science and everything in between. one that I'd recommend is called Stradivarius: check it out! *snap* this documentary covers the history of the famous instrument-maker Antonio Stradivari. around 600 of his violins survive to this instruments out there. the documentary features famous players like in an effort to discover what makes a Stradivarius ok, back to the page. *snap* and that's just one documentary: they've viewers a free 30-day membership. just click the link in the description, then there's a lot to learn, so why not get started? and hey, thanks for watching, thanks to our and extra special thanks to this video's Featured if you want to help out, and get some sweet there's a link to our Patreon on screen now. you can also join our mailing list to find subscribe, and above all, keep on rockin'.