(uptempo music) - Hello everyone, I'm Stephen Galloway, and welcome to Close-Up with I'd like to welcome Angelina Jolie, Guillermo del Toro, Greta Joe Wright, and Denis Villeneuve. You're on a lifeboat. You happen to have a - Oh no! That's not fair. - [Stephen] What film are you Let's start with you, Guillermo. - Oh, why? - [Denis] You're the (laughs) Emotionally, I will answer something completely non-prestigious. Yeah, it's because of what The Road Warrior. (laughs) It completely destroyed my brain. - [Stephen] Wow, I thought you - And, that's the problem. The other one is I would do that. I would take James Whale's Frankenstein. And, it's just The Road Warrior, I noticed how the camera worked and moved and it was a ballet. And, I would probably through the life boat journey. I would go, &quot;Where is Frankenstein?&quot; (laughs) - Have you ever met George Miller? - I met and I worship my sabbatical this year two week interviews. One with Michael Mann and purely about the craft to just because I wanna talk with them about what we never talk about, Lenses, cameras, why, when crane, when dolly, why not? To talk about the aspects of or painting that nobody talks about amount of paint. We always discuss movies sort of in a liturgical way. to ask George Miller what would it be? - To whom? - If you had one question what would it be? - Do you like me? (laughs) - [Stephen] You're so insecure. (laughs) - Dad? (laughs) - What's your lifeboat film? - Oh god, you're going to jump to me next. I'm like sitting here and I'm like, &quot;Oh my god, so many movies &quot;go through my head.&quot; 'Cause there's the, I have all my-- - Only one. - I Know Where I'm Going, Like, I just love that movie design of it fascinates me but you never notice that it was really becoming that romantic. - It was so romantic, Powell - And so good, and timeless. that you then brought to your work? - The pocket of emotion romantic films and I love romantic things. - What do you mean by - It's the space where you and it's real and you just keep It's almost the electricity of when fear is mixed with And so, there was something that moment, you never saw you were (vocalizes) these two and you're like (gasps) to be together, oh my god. And then, the storm and, you know, anyway. - They do it in other - Oh yeah, and they're so incredible. - Masterful. - Is love in real life - I think so. - But, I think too often-- - Well anyway, I have theories about love but the fear and desire and I think film allows that to happen, but that's what it is in real life, too. Although, we always wanna shut it down. And, your desire is always and then as soon as you do - I love that answer. - So, I think it's like comfortable extending it longer. - But, just to talk about this on my boat, but Brief when they're talking and she looks at him, he's looks at him and she &quot;a little boy just then.&quot; And then, he looks at her they're already in love and it's too late. And, it's like that moment what had happened and they both knew that the other one knew it. And then, they have to go you're like oh no, you and I, Anyway-- what is your boat? - [Greta] Singing in the Rain. - Aw. - I mean, if you're on a boat-- - Don't doubt yourself, it's a really good one. - Do you find that you're in another work or that your 'Cause there is that actually have another artist - Against. - Mm, but why just one? It would be hard to pick just one that you're reacting against. - There's a lot. - But, I think we're I think you're always absolutely studying and paying homage and then turning it just Like, that's the whole game, to me. - But, it happens, sorry to but has it happened to you that you start against they're your favorite. And you go, &quot;I love this guy.&quot; - They're all silent, that - Yeah, not so much, not so much. There are filmmakers that Personally, very personally against my father, as well, - Freud would have (laughs) - Yeah, he was a puppeteer and he made very beautiful marionette shows. He founded the first in London in 1961. But, one of the burden's that everyone saw puppetry a children's entertainment, a fine art. And so, a lot of it is a his perceived failure, as well. - And react against it meaning what? - Determination to do better. - Oh yeah, your Anna Karenina - No, no it's all about puppetry. It's all about how, you know. - It all comes from puppetry, really. - Would you chose the lifeboat film with a puppet or without? - Would I choose what? - Your lifeboat film with a puppet or without. - It would be what? - It would be probably Wings of Desire by Wim Wenders. - Which I love because of its humanity. And, I think on a lifeboat I might need to be reminded of my love of humanity. So, I'd take that one. Maybe even also Brief Encounter, as well. - Denis? I think I'm reacting as when I was a very, right out of film school I had I would say the burden of being liked, I was liked by an older filmmaker at home which Pierre Perrault who who was like doing documentaries. And, in the 60s he was like realistic film movement to have actually taking the and go with real people. And they had made a fantastic movie called Pour La Suite Du Monde on a small island in Quebec shooting a fisherman there. - And, they made a feature it's considered almost a masterpiece. But, for some reason he that I was going to do fiction He was like he didn't, was like why are your crying is crying it's like it's Because, his movies are And so I have all my live a lot because I learned But, I always felt that I was the bad son. (laughs) The one who went to do I was attracted to fiction-- - So, would you chose as a kind of penance? - That's a good, that's a-- - How deep does your guilt go? (laughs) - There is trilogy about the most beautiful movies I've seen yeah, about fishermen and I that could be the answer, yeah. Or, to prepare me for to death it would be 2001: a Space Odyssey. It's like my favorite And a one that I discovered when I was young, - not allowed to watch it in the night for me. - Forbidden fruit are always the best. - And still to this I revisit with great joy. It's a very existential journey. I think it could be a to passage if you're on - I don't know, I mean, question because it's It's like, if you were and you had something and - It's a horrible question. - That's the question-- - It's more the film that or prepares you for or - I would till choose The Road Warrior. (laughs) - Which is actually a - Oh yeah. - Like, it's so it's interesting. So, I really, I don't know movies on your lifeboat. I think it'd be important to not go crazy. - That might be a possibility. - I mean, you know I love Sidney Lumet. So, I love The Hill and I love seeing, and maybe it would help on the lifeboat to see you manage through I love Milos Forman as I love Amadeus, I love Cuckoo's Nest. I love the idea of make me feel full of a but also maybe I'd be a bit crazy on my life connect to something that feels alive. But, my real answer is It's hard with, film and I sometimes am to music 'cause I get - I am the same. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Like, I can't, I actually have none. People think I don't certain music I'll get or I'll start to or I'll start to feel-- - You mean emotionally? - Emotionally, so I don't, watch film because-- - You don't, huh? - I get very swayed by - Does the actual process of - Yes. a very heavy emotional drama in Cambodia. How did that impact you personally? - Well, very much and I and for those of us who on a film when you direct it's And, I think you're always if you need to do it and In Cambodia this is a debated, this history is It's not know and it's upset when I was in country. I've seen how it effects the people. And, I have a son who And, I want him to know what And, I want this country I had the right to be the one doing that? It was hard every day to or the right person to do it. But, I did feel so honored culture and allowed to encourage and share and really as this is what it will be. And, this is what many 70% of Cambodians are under 30. So, this is how they're (speaking foreign language) (footsteps) (explosion) - What changed in you in the - We had this day where Mu's children, it was at we were gonna have explosions and the kids. And, I got there with amount of hours with the kids. We've gotta get that any of the other, the You'd get the wire up the thing. And, it blows and it's not big enough, we gotta do it again. Where are the kids? And suddenly, somebody said they can hear children crying in the jungle. And, we didn't have enough And, there are landmines in the country. And, I said, &quot;This isn't, &quot;We gotta count the kids.&quot; And we counted the kids And then, somebody came &quot;We're Buddhist, people died on this land. &quot;They're hearing crying &quot;of the ancestors and you blew a tree.&quot; And so, we stopped production and got on my knees with the rest of them and we took the time to who had been there before, and just stopped everything And, it went easily and beautifully. I was there just taking and instead of just understanding not just in the country or but as a human being human beings making something. - I had in the past a similar experience, but a smaller scale. However, I did a movie in the Middle East about the war of Lebanon. I was just wondering being how did the people, you making a movie. - How do they feel about you, first. - Me, the thing is that what there was a lot of willing to share. They were happy to share their stories. They were happy that we They were very, for them it from what I received as a director. So I felt welcome talking other people even if I was going there, I mean. - Have you ever felt not welcome? - I made a movie once about in my home town about a school massacre. And, it was one of the first ones that happened in the history. And, it was a misogynist, that went to a school Polytechnique, And, that was very horrifying in 1989. And, I decided to make a movie about that and people thought I was, things to say about that and sadness, and strong emotions. And, it was a trauma and cinema can be very powerful and try to let emotions out of it. But, I felt resistance from my community at the beginning, a lot. I was not very welcome beginning, I must say, - Were you welcomed by Warner Brothers when you made Wonder Woman? You're entering the studio system, you'd done Independent films. - I was, I mean my story to get in there was a long story because to them about it in like 2005. And then, there were so of why they were and when And so, it's funny how I feel these big tent pole movies. I feel like it's more like hey, spot my pitch, it's serious. It's a serious commitment. You're seriously signing So, I had almost done other very little disagreements &quot;the right director for And so, when I was meeting I was really cautious. And at first, when I was they wanted to do something different. And, I was ah, it's a we are the right match. You have to do what you have to do and that's not quite right. By the time that they came they wanted to do something to what I'd been saying I it was a much different they were like, &quot;We And, I was like, &quot;You &quot;because we only have this amount of time &quot;and that's exactly &quot;Yes,&quot; so I was extremely welcome. Like, I was extremely because all of that was behind us. (explosions) (gunfire) (explosions) (grunts) (glass clatters) (dramatic music) (speaking foreign language) (grunts) (Wonder Woman theme music) It's the biggest advice I is like pick the right because you don't wanna You don't wanna be like idealistic and say I can change their minds. Maybe can't and if you can't So, it was a wonderful experience. I don't think it's always that there was such clarity about Then, I just did it. - In 25 years I've had one It was 1997 at Miramax Dimension. And, never again, I learned - Right, yeah. in every language. (laughs) And, the thing that I you're saying is those small not frontal and immediate it's A year later that baby (laughs) - I was just raising a when we were talking to sign on together for the next thing. And, as some little thing said one thing and I was and everybody was like, &quot;the same thing.&quot; And I was like, &quot;No, no, no, &quot;Wait, let's get into this right now.&quot; And, we ended up deciding this person and I because I &quot;mean that, if you're always &quot;and I'm always gonna wanna go this way &quot;let's talk about it &quot;let's not find ourself on a Like, those things are important, because you're anyway, but yeah those tiny Because people mean what - Yeah, and down the line to duke it out they will duke it out. Like, it starts super cordial, - And then later, it's boom. - This was over which film? - It was Mimic, and we started, moment in which, for those haven't seen it it's about a moment in which we developed the course of a year and I do the first test and I &quot;It looks like a giant bug.&quot; I said, &quot;It is a giant bug.&quot; (laughs) And, I went, &quot;Oh god, this and it was. It's horrible, the myriad that come from that movie, you know? But, I learned one thing I said, I lost this battle, at the images and I and I say those I won completely. It looks like I wanted it. The language of camera And, I learned, okay there accessed but in analysis and I mean, it's funny we are and we seldom talk about that. But, that's why I'm so one in the same because I had - So, thanks to Miramax. - No, I learned a lot the horror than you (upbeat music) - What did you learn when from - Well, I learned that I could do it. I mean, I thought I could quite known until you're on like that, that you can do it completely. You sort of have to take the a parachute attached. I mean, one part of my of learning how to direct as an actor. Also, in particularly them and produced them and held a boom and held a camera and there was nobody to do anything But, I've been so lucky with different directors different people who and explained to me what they were doing, how they were lighting putting the booms, how we I always hear about guys little Super 8 cameras and And, it's not, I mean, I'm gotten me them if I'd ask for it. But, it wasn't something But, what I did was put on And, I would put on plays with my friends. - This is a very male oriented business. Did that make it hard to get a very female centered film off the - Yes. to get off the ground? - Well, I mean, it's that is not important with could identify as, &quot;Oh, this is worthy.&quot; - It's Wonder Woman. - Or, just that it didn't, in a quotidian way. It's not about something as a writer and as a little tiny pebbles. - [Lady Bird] I wish that you liked me. - Of course I love you. (clicks) - But, do you like me? - I want you to be the very that you can be. - What if this is the best version? - When I was taking the it's a love story between I remember every man I with sisters or who had a &quot;That's my wife and my &quot;and my mom.&quot; And guys who didn't, as they said, &quot;Do women fight like this?&quot; - Oh wow. - I was like, well you've why would you know that this That being said I mean I was not asked to change I knew that when things or difficulties or something a deviation from the path, And, I had that, and for because it didn't feel like, &quot;is going to fall apart.&quot; It was like, &quot;That is &quot;We're going to lose that &quot;it won't work and we're gonna But, in that way I didn't I had no idea that this I had a much, I think, the problems are the road. - That's a Buddhist saying, - And always, the obstacle gives are far more interesting - And far more crazy. - How did that happen on Darkest Hour? - A better example would in Atonement which was-- - Yeah, on Dunkirk beach the fact that we only had And, with Darkest Hour the which was the highest May on record, and we were shooting in (laughs) And so, we had to find a the heat and the claustrophobia. And so, Bruno Delbonnel aesthetic lighting wise very, very dark shadows hot spots of light coming Which created the the claustrophobia and so exterior shots in the movie. - You've wanted this - No, she's the nursery - It's your own party to whom you'll have to prove yourself. - Oh, I'm getting the job only because the ship is sinking. It's not a gift, it's revenge. - Let them see your true - My poor judgment. - Yeah, my iron will. - Ho, ho, ho. (sighs) - Now go. - Be. - Be yourself. - What was the biggest problem you had to solve on Blade Runner, Denis? - For me, I would say the is like because technically you can do everything. The only thing that I cannot And, casting is like massively important, but the first take, first you know you listen. And, 99% of the time it's Christmas, but what happens if it goes wrong? First scene, that's my biggest - And, did it happen on Blade Runner? - And it happened that &quot;Okay, I was wrong,&quot; and I was not able to bring that artist At the end of the day it's okay because I push, I push, I push, I push, I push, and I was able to, but that - Before I directed, I taking notes all a long had real phone conversations I know who I've both worked And, I got direct advice, but like someone told me if just start turning off have too many lights on to figure out what you which I've used. But somebody told me they're hurting the movie. And, you just, if they're hurting it it's you have to. Yah, on a big movie like that I learned that same thing and saw that. It's a massive organism - It's so huge. - You have to be a manager of you have to identify - It's not a troupe. - And deal with because you can't have, there's not enough-- problem was what? - I mean, I had various little interesting massive this whole group of people and now all of a sudden about each other. Where's the, oh it's you, And, I tried to fix the fix the problem and then I But, it's the same thing, why you're doing it and I and all of that. But, you're a disruptive of hundreds and hundreds to go to work everyday and - I think one of the things about being a director that at one point for me, there's at least when you're beginning 'cause you do, it's like a family. And, you want to keep And, you want everybody in the family to take care of each other. You feel very much, especially directing, and everything, who's taking the place so you better be responsible to everybody, make sure everybody's okay. And, I think one of the your instinct to when you have So, whether it's you or you know the actress or 'cause they don't want to or this person is this, or your crew and you know they'd love to say, &quot;Come on, just let us go home.&quot; Or not even the length but to push 'em to say &quot;this &quot;We're gonna have to do this,&quot; and they're not gonna like it. And, I think when I first more aware of not wanting to feel like this is and the greatest days of our life, right? And then, I realized, you know there can be days that I'd rather them not like me of their life. - Because I want them to I know that real leadership to do something that at the they did and they're proud a team and work as a team. Not to try-- to make friends. to make friends and - Also, to give people a sense - Yeah. - Like, so that it's not and that even the caterers and excitement about And, if you then manage to create that sense of ownership then they're willing to go that extra. Yeah, exactly, and then they help you. - And, what was the worst day for you. - There's been so many, 25 years, it's been 25 basically everything movies And, I've gone through all-- I know you had-- - Shape of Water, I'll tell you one, everything, everything. - I had a first day that (laughs) First day, second day worse. And it went, of 65 days we and one day was easy. But, we had a great example, Michael Shannon parks stops, runs up the stairs. We do a Texas switch 'cause and I have another guy other staircase which was and he goes to the door. And I said, &quot;I got it,&quot; and always say, &quot;Get another one.&quot; I said, &quot;I got it.&quot; He said, &quot;Well, take two.&quot; I go, &quot;okay.&quot; And, we had scouted and I wanted to do, a techno I couldn't do. I said, &quot;No, let's move to the crane.&quot; He says, &quot;No, get another one.&quot; We go do the second one and many things happened that Shannon parks the car, gets out. The car stays in drive, so anyway the car continues going. Michael runs to try to stop the car. The car drags Michael, - In the middle of the rain. Michael lets go, the a post destroys it, a shower of sparks, but also the second for the video assist. And, everybody just says, &quot;Run.&quot; Now, I've never run for (laughs) I am 53 I have never, I And, I go, &quot;I'm gonna die.&quot; And, the car stops on which is anchored to the ground. And, everybody's in despair and horrified. Michael is, &quot;Oh, what has happened?&quot; And I go and say, &quot;Now, (laughs) - 'Cause he got rid of the post. (laughs) - So, was that the one good day? (laughs) - That day turned good. There were many, many, - That's crazy. day for you on Wonder Woman? - I think it was, I mean, oh you know what it pretty much was that in shooting on location. And so, at the end of the between Diana and Steve shooting on a real air base in the weather because I just What happens on set is you because it's messing up sound and it's just not gonna be the same. And, it had these incredible, incredible bunkers for all the planes. And, shot on film I quite know what that would to replicate it digitally in post. So, it was shooting in in the cold with Gal Gadot And, it was such an important exactly what you were talking and I go through this all the and there's something the director sometimes where you're like, I have to be the one. I don't wanna be here But, I have to be the because this is really and if we don't do this then all of this other work and So, I have to be the one, you've got to go back out there again. Doing it to actors when is very difficult. But, it was a hard scene to and Gal was literally She was like shaking and we gotta do it. (vocalizes) take the coat and Chris is tired and I just because I really hated but it just really mattered. And, I knew if we tried it was never going to be the same. - Denis, on Blade Runner pleased about in that film? - Actors, I'm very proud of the actors, and more specifically young actresses. There are four of them that And Ryan, Ryan was my muse. - Where were you, Clanton? Must have been brutal. - Plan on taking me in, huh, take a look inside? - Mister Morton, if (thuds) I would much prefer - Something that deeply because I felt that, you or I felt he was really with us working at five a.m. I felt his passion alive I felt that his fire was still there. And, you know what, my childhood heroes And, there's a saying never And that was, for me, it and my love for him because sincerely he's a committed artist, engaged. He was very generous. So, honestly, that was I would say-- - Among your heroes, filmic who surprised you or was - Can we get back to me? (laughs) - You know I can't do that. - Who was different than I expected? I don't know, maybe because a little bit with my how average everybody is in this business. I never, I grew up thinking special or unbelievably except for sometimes they think they are unbelievably special. So, I think it's just whether that they are other, just great people. I mean, I tend to find like who's a great actor he's a great person. And, I don't know if some people who come across a certain way or make films with a lot with a lot of humanity. Then there are really are complex people but they're And so, I don't know, I think kind of for what it is. I'm happy to be able to have a kind of, I just see as like moms, dads, people, women, men. And then, what comes out of - Has anybody given you a piece of advice that you carry with you in filmmaking? - Shoot the wide shot first. (laughs) I can forget to do that shoot myself into a corner. Oh, I should have just done the wide shot. - Do you storyboard? - Yeah, I do love story boarding. - Because you're so visual - One other thing that like great actors is And, I'm always surprised. - 'Cause like Gary like Harrison Ford was to And, I thought, &quot;Well, &quot;on set and he'll do his &quot;everything around him.&quot; And actually to discover that someone like Gary wants direction. - What was the fundamental - Energy, pace, the I talk a lot about rhythm I find that film is most similar to music than any other art form. And so, I'm always talking conducting a scene so that they know where the rise is and where It's almost, yeah, it's rather than going, and stuff like that which I think is fairly useless. about Churchill himself? - No, we talked about this was entirely fictional. I wasn't really ever interested And, one of the problems with is that they're generally I don't identify-- - He's very posh, but the humanity in them. I'm not keen on method actors. I'm a bit of a method I have to feel their emotions very, very closely with the character and see the world as they see the world. And so really, those characters are always an expression of myself. In fact, every character because that's how I and then I can love them you can't love. And so, I try to kind of figure out how, looking for the Churchill and I are the same. (laughs) Which is ridiculous, the film is about doubt, right? It's about self-doubt I just had an experience - When was that? - I made a film called Pan and it was universally And, I thought, I don't and I don't know if I - But, you take it that deep. - Yeah, yeah of course. I mean, people think that worth anything you don't move on. You go into a deep dark place and mourn. is an expression of our soul. I mean, it's who we are It's the closest thing to Because I'm not very in other ways. I'm not very good at talking to people. I'm not very good at dinner parties. That's where I allow - Well, you must have things who didn't like and it you loved it. There's the noise of the the singular voice and is there that too, have you had that? made you feel stronger - I had that on a film I did By The Sea which I don't think is a but I had moment when I we were making it people were saying, &quot;well people aren't gonna &quot;this isn't gonna be taken this way,&quot; or &quot;this is more like this &quot;what people want, or they're not gonna.&quot; But, I think I needed after Unbroken to just be an artist. It was like a talk with your sense of, you gotta what you feel and don't safe from this. If you become safe from this you're never gonna do anything worth And, find some kind of, find and don't and turn it into, I don't know. - Patty, have you ever lost your resolve, felt - All the time, I mean, no am like I find, it's funny I never decided to be a director. It was never like, &quot;I It's all the trappings of to do what I want to do which and my first love with music. And, I was always it finally came together when I took an experimental film course. And, I was like, &quot;That's it.&quot; I couldn't get enough And, I didn't want to play And then finally, I was So, I had to become a director to do it. I'd never like looked at the job. And so, I've definitely I was like, (groans) like you could just restore antiques or something. Like, are you sure you wanna? And, I'm always surprised But, I mean it was a right before I made Wonder had fallen out of the indie So, the films that I wanted to make. They didn't even wanna read them. And, it was IPs and I meeting on IPs. And then, it was, and there that I was like, (groans) &quot;I Like I don't know that I'm I turned around and But, at the moment I was like Maybe I need to move to I don't know how to fit they don't wanna see my film and like they don't even wanna read. And so yeah, I definitely right before I made Wonder I'm having, where, why, (upbeat music) - [Stephen] If you left - I wouldn't leave film, I love, I like truly love gets better all the time. The more I'm like, (vocalizes) like that, like finally like now I it just gets better the and the more you can try it gets better. But, I'd be a psychologist. - [Joe] Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. - 'Cause it's my interest in art and film is greatly fueled on the about people which is why I'm interested in telling their stories why you would become that serial killer or what it would feel like - Greta, what about you what - Oh, well my first love more than anything else, And, I didn't know movies I thought they were handed down from gods. I mean, I genuinely, I knew, made them but I didn't know who they were. And, it wasn't until I was that oh these are made by people. And, part of it was I weren't products, they had And, I hadn't really seen quite that. Like, in New York there's Film Archives, a Museum of to see these very that I wasn't totally But, they felt like-- - I remember the first the Apichatpong film-- - Yeah, and I thought it's a bifurcated structure anything like it. And, I was like, &quot;What is this? &quot;It's clear to me that &quot;I can't figure it out.&quot; And, I went back again, the same experience with Claire Denis' film Beau Travail, I sort of couldn't, but I suddenly saw But yeah, theater and I remember reading about more computer programmers There's nothing, originally were women because nobody And then later, it became in the 70s and 80s all the towards young men like, &quot;Get And then, they would learn by the time they got had this basis. And so, when women would be they'd come from the math be like way behind because - And, sometimes you spoke of psychology, what is, do you think, that a director has to have? - [Joe] He has to think in film. - Yes. - I just said he has to think A director has to think in film. And, I think that's rare. I don't thnk a lot of people thinking visually or It's literally about as an audio visual time based experience. - Ultimately fearless, I think. I think the same thing is not be afraid of because sometimes the the things that are closest And then, if you don't know and you have to pursue it. When people talk about a very strange word, that but not this industry. You just know that you're for that second ending. - It's funny, I was gonna 'Cause I think you do have to have like, I see how this film could you have to have some the realities of filmmaking and bravery and knowing and giving it enough room to have life. So, I think, but a plan, I because I was amazed, the in doing such a huge movie there's a huge insurance policy on you and it's like you cannot fall off that bike. And, I had a couple moments &quot;Oh my god, I'm the only &quot;how 17,000 pieces that &quot;are gonna fit back together again.&quot; And, it's like you have that ability at some point to be like, &quot;Oh, I remember on the because then I said, &quot;Oh, &quot;by doing that shot over there.&quot; I don't know that I told anybody that. I know that in the edit &quot;we're gonna do it this other way.&quot; Anyway, it would be fine and take over the movie. But, it's like. - You're talking about responsibilities. a vision and keeping it whole. - And now, I wanna talk about Kazan, many years ago, what a director needed. He need to know architecture. He needed to know And, I showed it to a friend and he said the only is he needs to know ethics. Society, at the moment, especially today we're dealing with all particularly about harassment. What is the director's - You just have to be a good human being. You can demand anything I think that you can be and say when we're you need to do what you do or You can be that hard. For example, when firing someone, I insist on doing it myself. I want you to know the I want you to know a producer The same goes for ethics. If you tolerate something on it can be a star, it and you see it and you a father figure. If you direct properly - As a man I would say come to my mind is father. I mean, you are responsible You are supposedly the and trying to create a safe environment, and a creative environment. And, as man it's the thing the way I behave with it is as a father. - And you don't back, I mean, I've had very imposing executives, or studio heads, stars, imposing physically and in terms of their stature in the business. And, what you would normally you don't back down in a movie set. You go at it and you go at it-- - You're talking about you want artistically. - No, no what you want is if you don't have anything and that you think some in some way or awoken in then it shouldn't be, its a piece of fiction, however it's viewed you do think that film needs to exist. So, ethically, overtly to the pulsations of the all of use at this table, were made specifically for reasons because we feel I feel the urgent political can see the order and divine in the other as and it was urgent. I mean, this movie was so personal to me, doing The Shape of Water, two scenes I cannot (majestic music) (hisses) (dramatic music) - [Stephen] Why is that movie so important to you personally? - It was a moment like I honestly said, &quot;Is there And I think that it's a medium that is not discussed in the way I when I was learning it generator of mythological images we have. Because, long art TV is generate those images that and the authority that I'm the biggest fan of or you name and characters to literature as you can get. But, I cannot quote more than two images. I can define the and position of images of Visconti time and time again. And, I think we need to because of that. And, it came to that crossroads of a certain heft and age, I &quot;movies that in some way or &quot;I wanna do one where I talk like an adult &quot;and about things that are urgent for me. &quot;And, if it doesn't work, &quot;and take long walks on the beach.&quot; - Some of those people have to get a performance. Is that acceptable? - It depends what kind because To push an actor to do work To inflict trauma, absolutely And, I've had this argument where it's like, I'm into people's life. And so, I feel that's very sign on to be traumatized. So, my job as a director out of other people within to work with and maybe Or like, yeah, maybe I am and things like that. But, I've always thought I've heard about those or really tricking people and I'm like, that's not cool for me. There's a line in the sand to bring beautiful things into the world because of how beautiful can they be? - Are you willing, however, - Yes, apparently with great (mumbles). - Yeah. - I would croak, I would. - Would or have? Have you harmed yourself? - I think I have. - You don't get this big I mean, it is neurosis. You They're raw, I mean you 90% of your personal And, you're always on the the less you'll get this, but you need to, there are things everyday that - Do you agree, Angelina? - Well, yes that you can take on a lot. I think I'm certainly that person. I never want to, I'll but I'm pretty thoughtful of And maybe that's part of leadership, too, is feeling like I better be in order to have a right - I used to think that directors, had a certain personality and that they had this sort of this and then I realized that It makes you, if you have essential and the thing something that you or it was dormant somehow if you don't have that. I don't know how you do it. - I think you've got to in the first place. You've got to be a bit mad, you've got to be a bit obsessive. - Yes, for me, I was thinking your bad experience I was, was the other way around. I mean, I do it because I so much I don't want I wanted to give everything knowing that I would probably be banned everybody is gonna hate me But, there was like a strong and I agreed before I I made peace with the idea the doing this. And, it made sense to me because but that to make the I'm going to be hated and just And then, that freedom that creatively, but it's like Fearing, not fearing could be the worst. - But, we have a right to fail. - Yes. you have a right to fail within this industry when I think it was Beckett much easier in playwriting. for Goddard. - Fail again, fail better. - Yeah, exactly and so - That unbelievable line. - That line is always the And, there's reason why 'cause you're always gonna And, that's the important is the process way more And, in that process important thing in Everyone's going through you're just kind as much and the films are made I mean, I think all the are, to some extent, about to create more kindness in And so, if you're not kind then you're just a hypocrite in doing it. - Last question, very If you had no limit in budget, in time, in historical moment. - That would be suicide. - But you had a camera. - Limits are what you gives you freedom. - Yeah. on freedom. to put a camera to record something. - In the Socratic Dialogs with Diotima who was a The only people who could were court whores because in addition to everything allowed to read or write. I would have loved to have had to say. - When I made Monster I into the prison world and trying to make those my film made was a movie in the California Prison System. And, I ended up getting and like so just for those a camera inside of the security yard in prison Because it's such a, I to understand better you think they are. And, that was thing that being there was like it's You want it to be really It's just human beings stuck, stuck and scared, and sad, and desperate, and lonely and pretending that's the only integrity that they have. And, one out of every thousands - In the eyes of an angel, which but I'd continue that experiment. - It would have changed if you had followed Jesus with a camera. (laughs) - What were those missing years? - There was like the thing that you say, &quot;Okay, that's the truth.&quot; - [Patty] That's a good one. - It's really difficult, I've about how much has been seen on film from chemical attacks in Syria to to people do see things to people seeing people abuse other people and I see very little movement very little calls to action. And so, I think we're what's going on around the to it with cameras and yet by kind of silly things they can watch. And, if they see it they So, I don't know, I mean as you said, that could that could make people a camera on the moon. Maybe it is something that and somehow sheds a that unites us all. - Guillermo. - There are certain too personal to share, I with more accuracy than memory allows. And, I would love to see into a theater with a more on myself in those moments And, they would be, the puzzle that I've been - Don't solve it 'cause the films we get. - That's good, I-- really extraordinary and which is nice. Thank you so much, that's - Thank you very much. - Drinks for everyone. (upbeat music) - Ready. - And, I look down the lens. - Yeah. (clicks) (laughs) - Hi, I'm Margo Robbie. - Robert Pattinson. - I'm Sam Rockwell. - Emma Stone. - Guillermo del Toro and - Thank you. - Thanks for watching - The Hollywood Reporter. - On YouTube.